PAGE FOUR IDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1959

Above is a photograph of the preliminary sketch by Leshmit, James, Brown, and Pollock, architects and engineers, of the new dormitory which will be erected behind Belk Dormitory. The new building will house 124 students, bringing Davidson’s capacity to 1250.

New Dorm Plans Set For June 1 Completion

Detailed plans for the new dormitory will be completed by June 1 according to the schedule adopted on Thursday, February 19, in a meeting of Charles A. Dana and College officials. The plan calls for contracts to be let by July and floor construction to be completed by July, 1960. According to Robert Currie, College Business Manager, Dana was especially interested in the schedule of construction of the dormitory. It is his desire that the building be completed as soon as possible to allow the college enrollment to increase to its planned limit of 1000 without delay. The dormitory is expected to be ready for occupancy in the Fall of 1960.

After the schedule of construction had been decided upon, Dana was well satisfied with the plans for the building and its proposed location behind Belk Dormitory. Dana also presented to the meeting the requests of students concerning the construction of the dormitory. He had talked with students on campus and with members of Kappa Alpha Fraternity, gathering opinions, on Tuesday when he lunched there.

Dana conferred with President Martin; Robert Currie, Business Manager; Grover Meetze, Assistant Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds; Mrs. J. B. Moore, Supervisor of Dormitories; and Mr. Lashmit, the architect. Plans for the dormitory were also reviewed to the Board of Trustees in their meeting on Wednesday, February 18.

Currie commented further that, contrary to popular misconceptions, the rooms of the new dormitory will not be very much larger than those of Belk Dormitory. However, there will be a better arrangement of furnishings. The rooms of the proposed building will be about four feet longer than those of Belk but the number of square feet of floor space will be approximately the same. The proposed building will house 124 students and will cost approximately $340,000. Lashmit, James, Brown, and Pollock of Winston-Salem are the architects.

British Statesman Appears March 13

Clement Attlee, will appear here on March 13 due to Vincent Price’s postponement, C. Shaw Smith, secretary of the Artist Series, announced earlier this week. Lord Attlee is one of the world’s greatest statesmen. He was head of the British Labor Party longer than any of his forerunners, 1935-1955, and was Prime Minister from 1945 to 1951. As leader of the Labor Party he led a “revolution by ballot” in the 1945 general election and for the first time in England’s history the Labor Party won a clear majority in Parliament. His platform for that election called for the nationalization of heavy industries. Under his premiership the Labor Government inaugurated a revolution in the social and economic fabric of Britain. It changed the face of the Commonwealth. In late 1955 he resigned his post as leader of the opposition. Now after two years he has returned to America to undertake a limited number of speaking engagements. His talk at Davidson is to be entitled: “The Two Great Systems of Democratic Government—Britain and U. S., Compared.”

Dr. John I. Hopkins of the physics department has announced publication of a research paper entitled “Low-Energy X-Ray Attenuation Measurement for Elements of Low Atomic Number” in the February issue of the Journal of Applied Physics.

Dr. Hopkins completed his research on this topic last year at Vanderbilt University, having worked for several years with graduate students in preparing it. He performed the research under an Atomic Energy Commission contract, through which he was provided equipment and a salary during the time he was not employed by the university. The contracts must be renewed annually. Dr. Hopkins reported that though he has let his lapse this year, he plans to renew it when the Dana Science Building is completed. He has held an AEC contract since 1950, and since that time has published ten papers in various journals, and is presently working on another.

Noffsinger Speaks At Sunday Vespers

Rev. J. R. Noffsinger, D.D., the pastor of Knollwood Baptist Church, Winston-Salem, N. C., will be the speaker at Sunday vespers. Before his present pastorate, Dr. Noffsinger was pastor of the First Baptist Church, Gainesville, Florida, where he had the opportunity of working closely with college students from the University of Florida. Dr. Noffsinger is a graduate of the University of Richmond and of Colgate-Rochester Seminary. Later he returned to his alma mater in Richmond and served as both chaplain and Professor of religion. Dr. Noffsinger is about to have a book published titled, “Christian Vocation.”

Kingston Trio Concert Declared Sellout

The Kingston Trio Concert has been declared a sellout, according to Interfraternity Council President Vernon Anderson. Ticket sales to Davidson students alone have amounted to more than 900, with other schools such as Queens, Salem, and the Woman’s College at Greensboro, bringing the total sold near the 1250-seat capacity of Chambers Auditorium. “The IFC is especially enthusiastic over the student response,” Anderson stated. “The concert, which was not planned as a money-making venture, will make a profit we will use toward the entertainment expense of Spring Frolics.” Because of the reaction of the student body toward the visit of the now-famous singing group, tickets have not been sold to the general public. What President Anderson had seen as “merely a service to the school” has “snowballed into a welcomed and profitable undertaking” for the Council. “It will be first come first served on seats next Tuesday night,” said Anderson, “thanks to the unexpected and gratifying turnout on the part of all students.”

Contenders (Continued From Page One)

Scholarships bring a high-type boy here and help keep the school in the proper perspective.

COURT OF CONTROL

The fall of 1956 found Mr. Charles Lloyd at Davidson College teaching first and second year English. He is “Crazy about Davidson,” and said, “I never saw so many fine people in one spot in my life.” A refreshing lecturer and a friend to all he meets, Mr. Lloyd encourages his students to come to him with study problems. He is also the regular teacher for the college student's Bible Class. Mr. Lloyd plans to stay at Davidson and hopes to finish his master’s degree as soon as possible. Having spent the past two summers at UNC, he needs only one more summer session to complete work on this degree. With a smile Mr. Lloyd said, “This is something else I should have done a long time ago.”

Commenting on interesting personalities he has met in his travels, Mr. Lloyd mentioned the Rector of Berlin University, Crenin Redslob. Redslob was a friend of a man who knew Goethe, and with eighty years behind him, the old Rector contributed his physical and mental alertness to the fact he had recently stopped smoking.

COMIC STRIPS

Mr. Lloyd's interests and hobbies are as varied and numerous as his experiences. Obviously a lover of foreign languages...| and word derivations, he also possesses an unusual knowledge of comic strips. He frequently comments upon the recent doings of his favorites. As far as pets go, he likes cats, and at present provides food and shelter for quite a pack. Mr. Lloyd is a very easy person to talk to and he always leaves you feeling somehow better inside for having taken the time to talk to him. Faith in Action.” ‘concerned.”

MEET YOU W. Moorehead at While enjoying our Famous PIZZA and SPAGHETTI in a charming atmosphere GONDOLA RESTAURANT Charlotte, N. C. FRIENDS Wilkinson Blvd.

Would you favor abolishing the Court of Control?

Green: I think the court is definitely a vital part of Student Government activity, that it serves a real purpose in orienting freshmen into Davidson tradition. By having a more centralized program and shortening the period of jurisdiction, it would be much more effective than it has been in the past.

Huie: The purpose of the Court needs to be re-defined. I favor continuation of the court but feel that with better student support and such changes as shortening the duration of the court, it can be restored to effectiveness.

Livingston: The Court of Control is essential for re-introducing freshmen to the spirit of Davidson College. Definitely, it should be reorganized with this ideal in mind.

HONOR SYSTEM

Comment on the present Honor System. Would you favor any changes or liberalization?

Green: I am for no liberalization of the Honor System as it is now set up.

Huie: I do not anticipate any change in the Honor System.

Livingston: The Honor System should not be changed, but I feel that the positive ideal of the system might be emphasized more.

UNLIMITED CUTS

Would you favor any system of unlimited cuts at Davidson?

Green: I do not think that a system of unlimited cuts is a good idea. If such a system was adopted, I think it should be on the basis of academic achievement. If you look at it realistically, there are some courses you wouldn't have to attend. But with unlimited cuts, you'd be cheating yourself and your parents.

Huie: I favor experimentation with an unlimited cut system. This, however, is not a matter on which the council can legislate. I don’t see that this is a matter which we can legislate, but it is of general interest.

Livingston: I favor a system of unlimited cuts and do not see why Davidson cannot institute such a system.

He has seen a large plant in the direction of Cornelius and another west of town, but after a few scattered questions which produced no reasonable answers, he assumed them to be historical relics with no immediate purpose. However, he would be amazed had he been with me the other day when I went to find out their purpose.

The long, brick building, just north of the access road leading into Davidson, houses a branch of Bridgeport Fabrics, Inc. In this plant are made zipper tapes of all strengths, sizes, and colors; a polyethylene plastic strip used in making outdoor furniture, primarily the aluminum yard furniture; and automotive trim lace for the automobile windlace assembly around car doors.

140 EMPLOYEES

The one hundred and forty employees of the Davidson division comprise one of the three plants of Bridgeport Fabrics, Inc., the other two located in Bridgeport, Connecticut, and St. Hilaire, Canada. The operation of the three hundred and twenty looms in the plant is very interesting to observe. The zipper tape fiber, purchased in this area, goes through the looms and is woven into tapes of desired characteristics. The zipper tapes are then sent to various plants which are responsible for putting the zippers themselves on the tapes.

WINDLACE TAPES

The automobile windlace tapes, made in colors corresponding to the various car interiors, are sent primarily to the Griswold Rubber Plant in Moosup, Connecticut, where the inner sponge is blown into them. They are then sent back to the Bridgeport concern in Connecticut, where final corrections are made in order to adjust the tapes to fit the various style cars for which they have been designed. At this time, they are sent to the automobile assembly lines, where the tapes are installed into the various cars.

Next, I went to the Southern Cotton Oil Division Wesson Oil and Snowdrift Co., Inc., located between Davidson and Cornelius. This plant primarily produces cotton crude oil, but because of the seasonal nature of this product, it also makes fertilizer, a year-round business. Due to the Soil Bank program, the Davidson division was not able to procure enough cotton seed to merit operation of the plant this year, but next year it will continue this segment of its business. The cotton seed oil business normally runs from around September to April. However, at present, the plant is making only fertilizer.

TRADE SECRETS

The fertilizer is made primarily from nitrogen, super phosphate, and potash, purchased in New Mexico. There are other ingredients which are trade secrets, these distinguishing this fertilizer from that of other companies. The processing of the cotton seed is very interesting. The cotton seed, after it has been extracted from the cotton at the gins, is purchased by the Wesson Oil Company. The seed is then sent through a de-linter machine which removes the lint from the seed. The shaved seed is then introduced into a boiling solution and the oil is squeezed from the seed. Previously, the juice was extracted from the seed by multi-ton blocks pressing against the seed, but this proved too inefficient, as there was always a large percentage of oil left in the seed. Now the plant employs automatic squeezers which extract almost all of the oil from the seed.

126 West Fifth St.

HI-FI COMPONENTS At Wholesale Net Prices Across From Ivey’s 5th St. Entrance

They said it couldn't be done... They said nobody could...

Charlotte 2, N. C.

PAR CEN

Which cigarette is kindest to your taste?” says James Arness. “There are two good reasons I know you'll like ’em. They're truly low in tar, with more exciting taste than you’ll find in any other cigarette. The filtering process adds extra filter fibers electrostatically to the filter, making them truly low in tar. The blend of slow-burning tobaccos brings you more of the real taste of the tobacco industry!

Every student has probably heard at some time or another that there are several businesses in Davidson which have no relation to the college.