~ FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1959

DEADLINES ON SPORTS

By B. MILLNER

The Intra-mural Athletic Council elects new officers next week and this year’s president, Ralph Sloan Wilson, steps down. Probably there
are a good many people on this campus who couldn’t tell you what the initials IMAC stand for. But that's
the way it has been all year with IMAC, and Wilson, and the other eleven fraternity representatives. They’ve done as
fine a job as could possibly be expected of a first-year governing council and, in the process, have received very
little recognition.

The germ of the IMAC idea began to take form almost two years ago when DAVIDSONIAN Sports Editor George Ramsey
wrote an editorial column voicing the need for a more authoritative student group which would take most of the policy-determining
responsibility out of Coach Heath Whittle’s hands. Under the old sports-manager system, Whittle had been in complete charge of fraternity
sports, and though his jurisdiction was certainly capable enough, it was felt that he was “dictating” policy matters to the
sports managers. Ideas led to action and a sports version of the IFC was organized this year. Coach Whittle still
handles the administrative chores of scheduling and point tabulation. The separation of powers has made for a much more efficient
set-up.

Probably the largest contribution of the IMAC to intramural sports at Davidson has yet to be unveiled. It is the
Intramural Rules Handbook, in the process of being published and soon to be distributed to each fraternity. This publication should
all but do away with the biggest single source of gripes, the problem of eligibility. Rules have been established individually
for each sport, the object being to erase all vagueness.

IMAC hasn’t done a perfect job by any means. There were still gripes; unsolved problems remain; some solution to the
general incompetence of basketball referees must be arrived at. But the IMAC has taken steps in the right direction, and
they have been long ones. President Ralph Wilson evaluated the past year: “It was a transition year—something had to be
done. Looking back I can see so many mistakes that we made, but that’s natural. I feel that we made
great strides toward accomplishing something for the future. It made us examine our own system, and at least made people
aware that we are trying to do something about it. The handbook should lead to better efficiency. I really do
appreciate the patience, understanding, and hard work of the men on the council.”

Davidson’s hard-luck baseball Wildcats may be on the short end of an 11-2 record, but three very influential gentlemen seem
to think that at least one ’Cat is worth taking a look at. Major League scouts Bill Harris (Washington), Clyde
Klutz (Kansas City), and Rube Wilson (Chicago Cubs) had their eyes on smooth shortstop Don (Weasel) Killian during last week’s
Presbyterian game.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

While enjoying our Famous PIZZA and SPAGHETTI in a Romantic Italian Atmosphere At The GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. Morehead at Wilkinson
Blvd. Charlotte, N. C.

Q. E.D.

Yes, it’s been demonstrated time and time again, that for real refreshment it’s Coke every time! Add up that cold
crisp taste, that lively lift and you really have a drink worth going after. So whenever the crowd has a
multiple thirst, make the high sign of good taste... pass around the Coca-Cola! Quod Erat Demonstrandum!

BE REALLY REFRESHED...HAVE A COKE!

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

“Coke” is a registered trademark, © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Cats Face Pfeiffer Today

By JIM PRESSLY

Davidson played host to the Pfeiffer College nine this afternoon with Dee Lide slated for mound duty. A double-header with
V.M.I. scheduled for yesterday was called because of a wet field. The luckless ‘Cats were plagued by errors in their
double loss to the Citadel last weekend. The Wildcats dropped two games, making nine errors. In the first game, Citadel
scored five runs in the first inning on five errors and two hits. They added one in the second, two
in the fourth, and two in the ninth. The big stick man for the Cadets was Jones with a double
and a home run. Davidson's lone run came in the fourth when Don Killian beat out an infield hit with
the bases loaded. The ‘Cats could garner but five hits off righthander Almes, who struck out fifteen. Pat Henderson went
the route for Davidson.

Citadel took the second game by a 10-3 score. They rapped out eleven hits, and four Davidson errors aided the
cause. Davidson got single runs in the third, fifth, and ninth innings. In the third, Cotton walked, advanced to third
on Bynum’s single, and scored on a balk by pitcher Corby. In the fifth, Groome and Cotton combined a double
and a single for another tally. Catcher Harold Reagan singled home the only other run in the ninth inning. Green
started on the mound for the Wildcats but was relieved by Lide. With nine games remaining on this year’s schedule,
the Wildcats are handicapped by a lack of pitchers. Lide, Green, and Henderson must handle the pitching chores. They will
get some help from Dave McCullough, who recently came out for the team. Hitting has not been as big a
problem for Coach Stevens. Russ Cotton is leading the ’Cats at the plate with a .383 average. The only other
regular hitting above .300 is shortstop Killian with a .318 average. Following him are Groome at .297 and Bynum at
.294. Green, who has pitched sparingly, is hitting around .300.

Linksters Play Cadet Rematch

The Wildcat golfers play a return match with The Citadel this Thursday at the Dunes Club near Myrtle Beach. Both
teams will be the guests of club members Collins Spivey and Craig Wall, Sr. for luncheon at the club.

DEACONS HOT

The ‘Cats finished a busy week Monday afternoon with two matches at the Myers Park Country Club. The results of
the first match with Furman and Wake Forest were inconclusive since all three teams received 9 of the 27 possible
points. Later in the afternoon, Davidson went another eighteen with the Wake Forest team and this time were defeated 20-7.
Low men of the Deacon's team were Wiechman and Helms who shot 74's while the ‘Cats were led by Tom
Johnson and Sut Alexander who carded 75's. In the earlier round with Furman, the Paladin medalists Ralph Snipes and Heyward
Sullivan shot 71's.

TOURNEY COMING UP

Although sporting a not-so-spectacular record of one win,Three losses, and two ties, Coach Scott was optimistic about possibilities in the
forthcoming conference tournament. “We have improved lately,” he stated, “and although we will be facing strong teams from Furman, William
and Mary, and V.P.I., if we can shoot 75's at the meet we have a good chance of winning. We
are hoping, but you can’t ever tell what will happen at a tournament.” Davidson is co-defending champion with George Washington
and Bucky Dennis was medalist last year as a junior. The ‘Cats have beaten the Citadel once this year, by
a score of 225 for their only win. Scott commented that the Dunes course is a rough one.

John Huie soars over the pole vault bar as Henry Pharr checks his form. Huie and Pharr have been consistent
winners for Coach Heath Whittle this year. (Photo by Blike) Pharr, who took up the pole vault for the first
time last year, has already tied a school record, but the mark was disallowed because of a measuring deficiency.

Trackmen Host Spiders, Enter High Point Relays
By BOB GREEN

The Wildcat tracksters played host to the University of Richmond this afternoon following an 87-45 Davidson win over Catawba last
Saturday. However, and may change the complexion of this second match. So far this year, Tom Johnson is in number
one position. He is followed in order by Verner Stanley, Sam Sloan, and Sut Alexander.

BAREFOOT BOYS WITH SPIKES
Tennessee Plowboys Hit Sports Jackpot

Three and a half years ago two young men from the Tennessee hills put on their shoes, descended the slopes
of Lookout Mountain and headed toward Davidson. From this inauspicious beginning emerged two of Davidson’s most promising athletes, Tom Johnson
and Mel Armstrong. Best of friends in high school, the two Tennesseans decided to try their luck at Davidson together.
And, after their sophomore year, when the joys of the scholastic life seemed rather doubtful, they both dropped out of
school for a year and went off to Fort Jackson to serve Uncle Sam. After their brief hitch in the
service was up, they returned to Davidson together last fall to continue their studies.

It's a lucky thing for Wildcat fortunes that Armstrong and Johnson stuck together and came back to Davidson. Both have
been outstanding in their respective sports this year. Tom made his sporting debut last fall when he reported for soccer
practice. A leader in the sport’s founding his freshman year, he again assumed a position of responsibility. He was runner-up
in the season scoring total to Weicher Bergsma with seven goals. Also, from his position on the forward line, he
attributed a considerable number of assists. The merit of his play was recognized by his teammates as he was chosen
to serve as co-captain for next year, along with Ward McKeithen.

In the spring, young Tom’s fancy turned to golf. Early in the season he held down the number two slot,
but now, on the basis of shooting low team total in Monday’s match with Furman and Wake Forest, appears a
strong challenger to Verner Stanley’s number one position.

When track started, it was Armstrong’s turn to shine. Mel had been undefeated in dual meets in the 100 and
220 his sophomore year, but had troubles achieving top form at the first of the season. The year’s lay-off accounted
for an early season loss. In the Wake Forest meet two weeks ago, he finally hit his stride crossing the
finish line, (aided by the wind) in the 100-yard dash in 9.9 seconds. Since the Citadel meet the first of
the season, he is undefeated. Armstrong also starred in flickerball and received the highest number of points in the balloting
for the all-star team. Both Armstrong and Johnson will graduate next year; Armstrong at the end of the first semester,
Johnson in the spring.

Davidson downed Richmond 69½-61½ last season and Coach Whittle felt that our chances were good for a win today. The
‘Cats met Catawba in Salisbury last Saturday and copped fourteen first places in fifteen events for 87 points. Angus McBryde,
Walter Bishop, and Mel Armstrong each garnered first place in two events with McBryde's eleven-point tally leading the winners. McBryde
won both the mile and two-mile runs and placed third in the javelin throw. The high and low hurdles were
taken by Bishop, while Armstrong captured the 100 and 200-yard sprints. His time in the 100 was 10.1. Ed Kizer
turned the oval in 51.2 to outrun the field in the 440. Davidson's crack relay team of Beebe, Thurmond, Alexander,
and Kizer won with a fast 3:30.5.

In the field events, Dave Warden won the shot put and Frank Cenegy hurled the discus 136 feet to win
that event. Stuart Nickle's best javelin toss of 179.9 feet came within a foot of the school record. Mike Laughlin
leaped 20' 10½", adding a first in the broad jump to the ‘Cats score. In the high jump, John Huie
tied the Indian's Sapiro at the 5' 9" mark. Huie pushed himself over the bar at 11' 6" in winning
the pole vault. Catawba’s single victory came in the 880 and Bush earned nine points to lead the Indians' individual
scores.

The ‘Cat cindermen will be in High Point next Friday for the High Point relays. Coach Whittle plans to take
his entire squad since five relay events are scheduled. The 'Cats will run a 440, an 880, a mile, a
sprint medley, and a distance medley (2½ miles). About ten colleges will participate in the relays and Coach Whittle hopes
his boys will be in contention for a place.

Wildcats Bow To Hot UNC, Hit VMI This Afternoon

The Wildcat tennis squad lost a tough 7-2 match to powerful North Carolina here yesterday afternoon. The ‘Cats faced comparatively
weak V.M.I. here this afternoon. Dick Hodel edged Tommy Ricks and Lee Orr beat the Tarheel number three doubles combo.
Coach McKee commented that U.N.C., “is the best team we've played this year—when we went to Chapel Hill they shut
us out 9-0.” He felt confident that Davidson would breeze by V.M.I.

The Davidson netters spent four days on the road last weekend opposing Richmond, George Washington, and N.C. State.

STOMP RICHMOND

The ‘Cats began their tour by routing Richmond on Friday, the 17th. The ‘Cats defeated their opponents in an abrupt
shutout, 9-0.

The next day at George Washington, the tide turned as the ‘Cats dropped five out of the six singles in
a 6-2 loss. Mintz bowed to Jim Tarr, 6-0, 6-1; Poindexter conceded to Jack Tarr, 6-1, 6-1; and Saul Liebowitz
of G.W. squelched McCutchen 3-6, 6-4, 6-0. Finley Lee, however, took the fourth spot for Davidson, 6-3, 6-3, over Jim
Whitehead. Orr and Hodel gave up the fifth and sixth to Ken Silverstone and Ken Garrison in 6-4, 8-6 and
6-1, 6-2 matches. In doubles, Tarr-Tarr took Mintz-Poindexter in three sets, 5-7, 6-4, 8-6. Leibowitz-Garrison conceded to the Broom-McCutchen pair
in a 6-1, 6-2 tilt. The third doubles match was called because of bad weather.

EDGE WOLFPACK

At Raleigh on Monday, the Wildcats came back with a 6-3 win against State. Mintz began by bowing to tough
Mickey Soloman 3-6, 6-3, 7-5. Poindexter also fell in a 6-3, 6-2 blow from James Spence. McCutchen edged Phil Jacobs
6-0, 6-4. Lee and Orr defeated Eron Faelton 6-2, 6-2 and Irwin Holmes 12-10, 6-0 respectively. Reid Monroe brought State
to a tie by defeating Hodel 7-5, 3-6, 7-5. In the doubles, Mintz and Poindexter defeated Soloman and Spencer, 6-4,
5-7, 6-4. Harry Broom and McCutchen defeated Jacobs and Monroe, 6-1, 6-3. Orr and Lee defeated Faelton and Holmes, 6-3,
4-6, 6-2.
