PAGE FOUR

ATO
Carol Fitzpatrick with Al MacKay
Anne Cowan with Ralph Asbury

PHI DELT
Linden Spann with Marshall Dunaway
Vicki Rumph with Eddy Richmond
Bobby Davis

Pi KAPP
Tomorrow afternoon at half-time, one of the young lovelies presented here will be crowned the first Homecoming Queen of Davidson
College.

Ann Hardy with SAE
Furman Ivey with Jack Rose
Helen Killian with Don Killian

Governor Hodges (Continued from page one)
The Governor admits he was too busy giving out North Carolina cigarettes to see much wrestling, but he was shocked
by the most frequently asked question: “Why do you want to make war on us?” Governor Hodges said it was
evident that people were told not only what to believe but what to buy. A candy bar might cost a
dollar and a book sixty cents. “Anybody that can sell goods without regard to cost is going to cause a
price war,” he said.

Returning again to the subject of education, the Governor became nervously intent as he explained the Russian system. Talking about
the colleges and universities, he said, “The students are there because of ambition, not because papa wanted them to go.
These colleges stress languages, and we are so far behind in this respect.” Governor Hodges went on to sound the
importance of understanding the world in which we live and work. He praised Davidson for the Christian understanding it offered
and challenged the students to not be lazy.

West Remarks On 1960 ROTC Band
Jerome Herring

Of the twelve social fraternities and the independents, selection of the queen will be made tonight at the formal dance
in Johnston Gymnasium, but will not be announced until tomorrow at the football game with Wofford.

Candidates
PHI GAM
Sandra Ridge with Dave Gillis
Eleanor Bowden with Gregory Crane

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1959

Aged Oaks Will Fall To Road Improvement

DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open Houses
The houses of the following faculty members will be open to students Sunday night, October 18, after Vespers:
PIKA
Abernethy
Hopkins
Meetze
Bernard
Hummel
Pietenpol

The Davidson campus will have to sacrifice some twenty of its aged trees and thirteen feet of its land in
the next few months to the widening of Concord Road. Stakes already appear in back of the new Dana science
building, the college church, and the library, outlining the course of the new 44-foot wide thoroughfare.

The improvement will extend from the intersection of Main Street and Concord Road to the city limits. The initial plans
for the widening arose from an offer by the North Carolina Highway Commission to better the city street as a
part of State Highway No. 73. The project entails the construction of minimum 44-foot roads to include two 12-foot lanes
of traffic and parking lanes of 10 feet on each side.

A combination of town and state funds will cover the cost of construction. A board of representatives will accept bids
for the contract in the first week of November. Town funds alone will cover the re-landscaping of renovated college property.

Carolyn Clark with Fredericksen McLane Workman
November 2, 1959

The queen will be crowned by Dr. Martin, president of the college.

Dear Jane,
Please excuse the notebook paper, but if I don’t do something in this class I'll simply go crazy. The competitors
will be presented in the traditional figure after the introduction of IFC members and their dates. The judging will also
take place at this time. Judges for the occasion are Warren Covington, Dr. Puckett, Colonel Adams, and John Trask.

The new addition of a queen into the Homecoming festivities is another one of the innovations proposed by the IFC
toward a bigger and better Homecoming at Davidson. Other surprises are also predicted for tomorrow's game.

This past weekend started off so good when we beat Robbingville High (I was sponsor for the 4-H Club President)
and then I thought things had just started. As I told you in my last letter, Billy invited me to
Davidson College’s Homecoming. Jane, I don’t know what’s happened to Billy. I'm sure you looked up to him as I
did when he was Hi-Y president last year, but I just don’t know now. Billy has distinct regrets. He drinks.
All the boys in his club drink. Even a lot of the girls drank.

When he took me to the dance in the gym he was the old Billy. But then we went to
a dirty old place by a river and Billy changed. He, the girls, and the colored boys in the band
got downright ugly, in both word and deed. My parents wouldn't let those people in our home. Billy drank so
much beer that he fell asleep and didn’t wake up, except for the one time when he got sick. I
was looking forward to at least ending it pleasantly by renewing our spiritual friendship at the Westminster Fellowship, but he
said “Hell no, I might get sick again.” I might add that Billy isn’t bashful anymore... and that beautiful dress
Mother made is in shreds. Oops... here comes the teacher. NEVER GO TO A COLLEGE DANCE.

Jenny

Zena Strub with David Edwards

LETTERS... (Continued from page one)
November 1, 1959
Mary Grimsley with Gaines Grantham

EXPRESS DISTINCT REGRETS
Adherence to this regulation inevitably calls for the razing of some twenty of Davidson's oak trees. The parking lanes, curbs,
and gutters will entail paving a total of thirteen feet of the southern end of the campus.

The new addition of a queen into the Homecoming festivities is another one of the innovations proposed by the IFC
toward a bigger and better Homecoming at Davidson. Other surprises are also predicted for tomorrow's game.

Alumni Install
(Continued from Page one)
The “Committee of Ten”. Five of these committee members were selected by vote of former presidents of the association and
the remaining five members were chosen by current presidents of local alumni chapters. Dr. D. Grier Martin is treasurer of
the Alumni Association and John Horton is secretary. These offices are not filled by the annual mail balloting, but by
vote at the yearly meeting, according to the laws of the association.

Following the chapel service, the Governor, escorted by President Martin, went to the Union for a brief refreshment—hand-shaking session with
the students and faculty.

Earmarked in his dress by the constantly fresh carnation in his lapel, the Governor confessed that on his trip to
Russia he had an artificial one. “I had to,” he said laughingly, “everything is so artificial over there.”

From President Martin, the Governor settled back in his limousine for the trip to Leaksville with Mrs. Hodges. The pair
planned to vote in their hometown for the thirty-four million dollar state bond issue. Currie went on to explain that
the Dana Science Building went through a dozen or more such preliminary drafts before a final plan was arrived at.

Wednesday the Governor played host to the President of the newest nation in the world, Negro Sekou Toure of the
African Republic of Guinea, in North Carolina on the only southern stop of his U.S. tour.

The present preliminary sketch of the John R. Cunningham Fine Arts Center is only an initial preliminary one,” asserted Business
Manager Robert A. Currie. “These first sketches were an attempt to have specific information and plans to show to Mr.
Dana when he came. There's a lot of planning to be done from this point on.”

“The key to any arts building,” added Currie, “is whether it facilitates both a Dramatic and a Recital Hall. Obviously,
a proper music hall requires certain features; and a dramatic setting, others. Our greatest problem will be to arrive at
a plan which will combine these two into one auditorium.” This and the acoustical problem will require much revision on
the present plans to arrive at a final draft.the Fine Arts Building did not include some of the changes that
might become necessary and did contain proposals that may be unnecessary. “These sketches gave us a location and a planning
start,” commented Currie. “One definite advantage of this building,” Currie continued, “is that it will be made available for all
departments of the school. Although its main interest is in the fine arts, it is in a way an all-purpose
building and can be used for summer conferences or scholastic seminars of the various departments of the school.” As presented
in these tentative plans, rooms will be set aside for sculpture, painting, a music library, a band room, a chorus
room, a mechanical room, music studios, and classrooms for practical application.

On Saturday, Luther Hodges will head a sixty-five man trip to Europe to sell North Carolina to European Industry. At
Davidson, all seems fairly calm in the lull of the coming dance weekend, but the somehow jeering words of the
Tarheel Governor seem to still be around—"They have done their homework.”

“For the past three or four years the ROTC Band has been increasing in size as well as quality,” stated
Professor Frank West, “and this year we have the largest band in our history.” Professor West of the Davidson College
Department of Music looked toward the sharply formed ranks of the College ROTC Band and smiled. “No, sir,” he said,
“we still do not have enough of the Army blue uniforms to go around.” The Band this year will march
sixty-four cadets directed by Drum-major Miller Goss, and commanded by Cadet Captain Perrin Wright. Captain Wright commented, “Because all band
cadets did not possess a complete blue uniform, we marched in khakis during the big event on October 28.”

The “big event” to which Wright referred was the dedication of the new million-dollar Charlottetown Shopping Mall this past Wednesday.
“This was no minor event,” joked Captain Wright. “It definitely added to our status.” In addition to the part in
the dedication of the Charlottetown Mall, the ROTC Band will make a major contribution to the 1959 Homecoming activities. During
half-time, the Band will present colorful formations and precision marching, as well as playing throughout the ball game.

Davidson is planning to hold its first annual Charlotte-Mecklenburg Day on Saturday, November 7. The college will be host to
guests from the two areas, who will attend the football game with William and Mary scheduled for that afternoon. “There
are many residents of the two areas who have always heard about Davidson, but have never actually visited the campus,”
said Mr. Robert Sailstad, Assistant to the President. “This program is especially designed to acquaint them with the campus and
also re-acquaint many old friends, who have not seen Davidson since the college facilities have been expanded in recent years.”
The college has issued special invitations for the program in the form of “Charlotte-Mecklenburg Day” folders. These folders outline the
activities for the day, which begin with registration at 10:30. Guests will have a special picnic from 11:30-1:30 on the
College Union Terrace. The college is furnishing box lunches at a cost of $1.25 each, or guests may bring their
own meal. Beverages will be provided for all those attending. Special tickets for the game may be purchased for $1
by advance mail reservation.

Berle K. Hufford, Assistant PMS&T of the Davidson ROTC department, has been promoted to the rank of Lt. Colonel. Hufford,
a major for nearly eight and a half years, is beginning his second year as second-in-command in the local organization.
Hufford explained that the Order was effective Oct. 20. “It wasn’t exactly a surprise,” he said. “Everyone knows just where
he stands, but naturally I was very happy when my turn came around.” The high point of Col. Hufford's military
career was his service with the famous V Corps Artillery, the “Omaha Beach Corps.” Hufford moved with the corps from
Omaha Beach to the Elbe and then down to Pilsen, Czechoslovakia, during World War II. Hufford spent two years with
the historical division in Germany, working with former German officers.

Hallett Smith Visit on College Agenda

Dr. Hallett D. Smith, Professor of English and Chairman of the Division of Humanities at California Institute of Technology, will
visit Davidson on November 5 and 6. The national organization of Phi Beta Kappa, scholarship fraternity, is sponsoring Dr. Smith's
visit. Dr. Smith is a noted authority on Elizabethan and modern literature. He has served on the faculty at Williams
College in Massachusetts, and has held his present post at California Tech since 1949. Author of four books on various
literary subjects, Smith was awarded the Chapman Poetry Prize in 1952 by the Poetry Society of America. He studied under
a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1947-48.

Dr. Smith will be the featured speaker at an open meeting of Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity next Thursday night at
8:30 p.m. in the Union Ballroom. The fraternity invites all interested students and faculty members to attend. While at Davidson,
Dr. Smith is scheduled to address the Humanities 13 class and several other English classes. He has been asked to
speak in chapel and to attend a meeting of the college’s Curriculum Committee.

Y Book Successful; Plans Begin Again

Plans for the second Y Book program of the semester have already entered the preliminary planning stage, Tommy Colvin, chairman
of the committee, informed the DAVIDSONIAN this week. The group will welcome any suggestions concerning the book to be used.
The final choice of the book will be announced around Thanksgiving, Colvin reported. At that time, definite organizational plans will
be formulated for the second in this series of programs, initiated by the Y this semester.

“We were very pleased with the interest shown in the program last week, and we hope even more interest will
be exhibited for future ones,” Colvin said. Approximately 350 copies of The Status Seekers were sold. However, no profit was
made on the program. A small loss was incurred which the YMCA will have to absorb. Colvin said the committee
found Vance Packard, author of the nation’s best seller, eager to do everything possible to help with the success of
the program. Favorable comments were received on his television appearance. The Y was particularly pleased with Packard’s informal talks with
classes.
