PAGE FOUR

Miss Ann Dana Chats With Local Students

Miss Ann Dana sat quietly at the corner of the sofa in the Kappa Alpha Fraternity House. A china saucer
rested in the palm of her left hand and a cup in her right. “What do you think of our
beautiful campus?” someone thoughtfully asked. “You express my thoughts exactly,” she replied. Miss Dana was surrounded by Davidson Gentlemen, eager
to make some impression on their important visitor. The house was tastefully decorated and several silver trays held cookies and
cake. Mrs. Little poured coffee for the guests who mingled about the house. Questions began to be directed more to
the special guest. Miss Dana told of their trip South from New York. The party left last Wednesday and went
to St. Petersburg, Florida, for a tour of the Stetson Law College. They flew to Atlanta and drove to the
Berry School for Boys and Berry College in Rome, Georgia, before coming to Davidson on Tuesday. Brushing a cake crumb
from her dress, Ann said that when they left Davidson that the party would see Queens and Guilford College before
returning to New York. “I went to the Ethel Walker School and studied in Switzerland for three years,” she said,
“and now I work as a nurse's aid at Memorial Hospital in New York.” Ann loves to ski, but considers
languages her favorite hobby. She said that Spanish and French were her best. The coffee hour was soon joined by
the remainder of the Dana party and college officials: tour of the new dorm. The time came for the party
to move on to another part of the busy schedule of places to go and Miss Dana had to leave
also. The students made their parting remarks and excused themselves, hoping their impression upon Charles Dana's daughter was equally pleasant.

—CHARLES ROSE

Chorus Presents Verdi's ‘Rigoletto’

The Davidson College Male Chorus will make its first public appearance of the year on October 24, when it participates
in the Charlotte Opera Association’s presentation of Verdi's “Rigoletto”. Two performances of “Rigoletto” will be held. On Saturday, October 24,
a students’ matinee will be held at 2:30 p.m. in the David Ovens Auditorium in Charlotte. The main performance will
be held in Ovens Auditorium at 8:30 p.m. on the following Monday, October 26. Three of the Davidson Male Chorus
members will have solo parts in the performance. “Koogie” Kwon will play the part of Manullo; Bill Workman, the part
of Monterone; and Walter Clark, the part of Ceprano. Other members of the chorus will participate in the performance as
ushers and guards. The Davidson Chapel Choir elected David S. McCarty, President.

A Portrait Of Leadership

(Editor’s note: Following are excerpts from the tribute paid Mr. Charles A. Dana for his leadership as evidenced by his
many successful ventures. The program, arranged by Mr. Robert Sallsted, was presented at a luncheon in honor of Mr. Dana
and the Trustees of the Dana Foundation.)

This is a simple story of an American—a man who personifies what commencement orators are apt to call a “leader
among men”—a man whose life exemplifies how an individual with vision, personal initiative, and imagination can provide the spark that
brings steady progress and purposeful growth to a free enterprise in a free land. At the turn of the century,
in about 1900, a young man named Charles Anderson Dana was just another student at Columbia University. There he received
a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1902 and a master’s degree in International Law in 1904. As a young corporation
lawyer, his abilities soon won him a position on the staff of the New York district attorney. At an early
age, he assisted in the prosecution of one of America’s most celebrated murder trials—it received front page coverage over months
and years—It was the famous Harry K. Thaw case. He worked out legal details of major franchises for the Pennsylvania
Railroad. It was a natural jump to politics and he was soon in the New York state legislature for three
full terms. As a leader in the G.O.P. he was closely associated with Governor Charles Evans Hughes—and even managed one
of the Teddy Roosevelt's presidential campaigns. In 1914, our thirty-five-year-old attorney, Charles Dana, joined Spicer Corporation and by 1916 he
had reorganized the corporate structure of this automotive parts industry. Dates and names tell a story of the march of
events that have given Charles A. Dana a key role in the history of America’s great automobile industry. 1919: Spicer
Corporation purchases Parish Pressed Steel Company—world’s largest producer of heat-treated frames for heavy-duty trucks. 1920: Salisbury Axle Company—manufactures axles for
automobiles, taxicabs, and light commercial vehicles. 1922: Hartford Automobile Parts Company—another plant to make universal joints. 1926: I. J. Hardy
and Company in Birmingham, England was one of several Dana interests in England as headquarters for the company were established
in Toledo, Ohio. This move was later followed by the development of the huge, ever-growing Toledo plant where many phases
of the manufacturing operations of the company were soon consolidated. 1929: Brown Lipe Gear Company, a notable addition to the
organization was this manufacturer of transmissions, clutches, gears, power take-offs. 1929: Hayes Steel Products, Limited as a part of the
company in Ontario, Canada made it possible for three Canadian plants to make Dana items for the company.

Homecoming Schedule

As a service to students, THE DAVIDSONIAN here presents the schedule of activities planned for the Homecoming Weekend. This schedule
may be clipped and sent to dates who need such information to plan their weekend wardrobes.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30
8:00 p.m. ARTIST SERIES presents Harrison Salisbury, New York Times Moscow correspondent.
9:00 p.m. FORMAL DANCE featuring Warren Covington and the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra. Davidson’s 1959 Homecoming Queen will be selected at
intermission.
1:00 p.m. Fraternity after-dance parties. Informal.

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 31
Morning: No classes; a holiday. Judging of fraternity Homecoming displays.
12:30 p.m. LUNCHEON
2:00 p.m. FOOTBALL GAME with Wofford College. CONCERT Featuring Dorsey Orchestra follows game.
8:00 p.m. INFORMAL DANCE featuring the Dorsey Orchestra. Coats and Ties.
12:00 p.m. Fraternity after-dance parties. Informal.

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 1
11:00 a.m. CHURCH SERVICES
All girls housed for the weekend in Belk Dormitory must vacate their rooms by 2:30 p.m. on Sunday. Officially scheduled
Homecoming activities will end with luncheon on Sunday.

Societies To Meet, Discuss Packard

The Eumanean and Philanthropic Literary Societies will meet jointly on Monday at 8:30 p.m. in the Union Ballroom for a
panel discussion of The Status Seekers. The meeting will be open to anyone in the Davidson College community and will
be followed by a coffee hour. Moderating a panel of faculty members will be Dr. Max Polley, associate professor of
Bible. Col. W. L. Adams, professor of military science and tactics, Professor John Satterfield, assistant professor of music, and Professor
J. D. Kelton, associate professor of Psychology and Dr. Polley will engage in free-lance discussion focused on certain ideas expressed
by Vance Packard in his book which are particularly relevant to the situation at Davidson. Questions from the floor will
be in order. Stated Eu program chairman, Charles Ringe: “We hope to have this year more debates, sketches or other
honorary endeavors.”

After Vespers Open Houses

The houses of the following faculty members will be open to students Sunday night, October 18, after Vespers:
Brown
Currie
Daggy
Evans
Lilly
Griffin
Kelton
Labban
Lloyd

Fraternity Solicits Members

Sigma Upsilon is currently conducting its fall membership drive, which is open this year to all students, including members of
the freshman class. Anyone interested in applying for membership should submit two manuscripts to the Union desk before noon next
Friday. Manuscripts should be poems, short stories, character sketches or other creative endeavors. Previous members of the literary fraternity in
a free land.the company early became an international enterprise. 1928: 1928 was a big year for cars built in Canada.
1930: Another jump across the sea—and the company acquired an interest in Societe Glaenzer-Spicer to manufacture parts for those increasingly
popular cars made in France, Belgium, and Switzerland. 1935-1946: More years—more progress! 1946—the company name was changed from Spicer Manufacturing
Company to Dana Corporation and then the organization really grew along with new opportunities to serve America's key industries.

“We also are looking forward to the rekindling of the old rivalry of the societies and will be happy to
co-operate in any joint efforts of a competitive or a combined nature.” Basic for this leader were solid courses in
the liberal arts and law. As he says,—“The law is a very good foundation for any man.” But he is
more than a lawyer. He has been a businessman, statesman, cowboy, marksman, world traveler, rancher, farmer, and much else!

Student Describes (Freeman To Lead (Continued from page one) WF. Discussion of the largest missionary centers in Korea, has welcomed
many Davidson graduates, among whom was Dr. Woods, college physician. The YMCA is a much more important part of the
Christian student's life in Korea than in the United States. There were about 560 members in the Mokpo youth YMCA,
meeting almost every day for Bible discussion and recreation. Most Christian families send their children to the YMCA schools in
addition to the regular state schools. Last year the Davidson College YMCA gave $170 towards purchasing a radio and phonograph
for the Mokpo kindergarten operated by the YMCA. Nam Young plans to go to George Williams College in Chicago upon
graduation from Davidson next spring. There he will train for YMCA work, to which he will devote his life when
he returns to his hometown of Mokpo, South Korea.

GEM Today and Saturday also MON., TUES., and WED. “THE JAYWALKERS” In Technicolor With JEFF CHANDLER FESS PARKER Starts Thursday
Oct. 22 “THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES” In Technicolor With PETER CUSHING

SWANEE Today and Saturday “HIGH SCHOOL BIG SHOT” Also “T-BIRD GANG” Saturday Late Show MON., TUES., & WED

As a leader he leads still another significant effort. He challenges men and women to make large-scale leadership investments in
the training of college students TODAY to be leaders TOMORROW in business, in the arts, professions, and sciences—for that endless
broad vista of a new day with new demands, processes, new jobs, and exciting new opportunities for the peace and
progress we pray the space age will bring!

Of Mr. Dana, a poet has said: “Over every enterprise The shadow of a great man lies. Back of all
things worthy and wrought Lies his vision and his thought.”

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA at the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

AIR-CONDITIONED FULL BATHS INDIVIDUAL HEAT FREE—TV. FAMILY ACCOMMODATIONS 15 Minutes From Davidson THE OAKS MOTOR COURT 344 South Main Street
Phone NOrth 3-5693

True, the lines don’t scan. But what do you expect from a tent-maker—the perfect rhyme of “Winston tastes good like
a cigarette should”? We'll admit that something may have been lost in the translation. But when it comes to Winston,
nothing is lost in the translation of rich, flavorful tobaccos specially processed for filter smoking. Winston is designed to taste
good. Or, as Omar puts it: Lighter lights; and having lit, Flicks off. Then you draw on IT, And bit
by bit smoking pleasure mounts; and Winstons taste good because of the crowded calendar between Thanksgiving and Christmas. We will
try to schedule it in the early spring,” commented Morcock. “Last year’s ball was a great success, and we hope
this year’s will be even better.”

Canterbury Plans Buddhism Lecture The Episcopal Canterbury Club will sponsor its first speaker of the year this Sunday, October 18.
At 4:00 p.m. in the Green Room of the Student Union an informal lecture on Zen Buddhism will be given
by Dr. William Beidler, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Queens College. Dr. Beidler, a specialist in Oriental philosophy, who received
his Ph.D. from Osmania University in Hyderabad, India, will explain the historical and philosophical foundations of Zen and then give
special attention to those of its features that seem to hold an attraction for our modern American “beatnik.” This is
the first in a series of lectures exploring various attempts currently being made to escape objectifying, analyzing tendencies in our
contemporary culture experience. All interested students and faculty are cordially invited.

Wine, Bread Old Omar has come up with another corker of a couplet. Freely translated from the Persian: it’s what’s
up front that counts If it hasn't got it there it hasn't got it taste. That’s because up front of
a pure white filter Winston has Filter-Blend—a special selection of mild flavorful tobaccos specially processed for filter smoking. Winston is
designed to taste good. Or, as Omar puts it: Lighter lights; and having lit, Flicks off. Then you draw on
IT, And bit by bit smoking pleasure mounts; and Winstons taste good.

Major R. W. Fleming, Jr., MS II instructor and assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, was the member of
the Cadre tapped in this fall ceremony. Also tapped were: Brigade S-1 (Adjutant) Gus Burgdorf, from Springfield, S. C.; Brigade
S-3 (Operations) Joe Wearn, from Charlotte; Brigade S-4 (Supply) Bobby Avinger, of Columbia, S. C. All of the above hold
the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. Fred Lane, of Winston-Salem, ranks as Cadet Colonel, and serves as Deputy Brigade Commander. Cadet
Lt. Colonel Milton Gee, from Greensboro, is Second Battle Group Commander. These men will also be initiated.

Three Company Commanders were also tapped: Don Rhame, from Clinton, S. C., Captain of Company D; First Battle Group; Brownie
Thurman of Atlanta, Georgia, First Battle Group’s Mortar Battery Captain; and Billy Davis of Winston-Salem, also a Captain, Commander of
Company A, Second Battle Group.

Captain Morcock announced some of the plans for Scabbard and Blade. Among them are the annual Turkey Shoot, in which
sharpshooters on the faculty vie for turkeys and other prizes. This event is always scheduled around Thanksgiving. Omar Khayyám writes
a new jingle: A jug of wine, a loaf of bread, and thou.
