Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

(000

FER WGED - LRY BOY - ARKIDG ED

Fivar

son ollese, ason, t y 2; oLume

DID YOU MISS IT?

For over two weeks the editor has begged and pleaded with those here at summer school to remember the dance on Saturday 18th of this month. Many students failed to take an interest in this affair. To those, this article is dedicated.

Sixty or more people had a fabulous time last Saturday night from 8:00 p.m. until!! Many danced the night through in the subtly decorated ballroom of the College Union. Not only was there a Rock 'n Roll band that played twenty minutes longer than their contract called for, but there were some real girls that attended this informal and successful dance.

The success of this dance came only through hard work. Some of our more active coeds (namely Lucia and Gwen) worked and planned very hard for this occasion. George Kirkpatrick was more than instrumental in seeing that these plans were carried out. Due to his work and to W. D. Kelly's coordinating, the ballroom looked much like a large, exciting cafe which would no doubt be off limits for all servicemen and those under the legal age of 21. Good work boys - it was fabulous! Many of the more ambitious and interested students took time out Saturday afternoon and helped the decorating committee set the atmosphere for the dance. To these people, we of the Activity Committee wish to send our thanks.

BREAK TONIGHT!

Tonight, the movie "The Second Greatest Sex" will be shown for those who have kept up with their studies and are ready for exams tomorrow. (Those who haven't will also be admitted.)

A giant ant farm now available for sightseers who may have developed a rabid interest in ants, flies, worms, etc., over the years and of course under the influence of the Davidson College faculty (only certain departments of course!). Come see! Come see!

GIFTS FROM TANGLEWOOD

For those of you who are not from North Carolina, let me say that Tanglewood is the name of a Barn Theater on Highway 158 West, just this side of Winston-Salem. This theater guild is composed of highly talented men and women who have aspirations of being on the stage in later years, and are being coached by now-famous actors and actresses of the legitimate theater.

They have been kind enough to give the college some free tickets to their performances for those who might be near Winston-Salem some time this summer. Now, our skeptical Davidson student will probably say, "If they are any good they wouldn't be giving away tickets." This is completely wrong!! These people are in effect being very generous because they could easily receive from $3.50 to $2.50 for the free seat that they are offering to anyone who would like to come.

The plays still available to the summer public are as follows:

Dial M for Murder July 21-26
Star Production July 28-Aug 2
Summer and Smoke Aug 4-9
The Loud Red Patrick Aug 11-16
Three Men on a Horse Aug 18-23
Diary of Anne Frank Aug 25-30
Star Production Sept. 1-7

(# these plays are those in which the cast is composed of the theater-tested teachers, and should be among the best.)

The management asks that the Davidson students come during the week and not the weekend (Friday, Saturday, and Sunday) if possible.

BRIDGE TOURNAMENT

Master-points for the bridge tournament were won by Dudley Elvery and Frank Pile, John Warlick and Jere Abernathy.

Congratulations boys!