Current Events Quiz Results (See Page Two)

VOL. XLVI

Dp ‘Dp In Unlimited Cut Policy

The DAVIDSONIAN interviewed six Davidson professors for opinions on an unlimited cut system, which was favored in a student poll earlier this month.

PUCKETT

Dr. Puckett stated: “I worked under a system of unlimited cuts at Princeton. I did not find it satisfactory... Under the present system,” he continued, “upperclassmen who have their required quality points can cut one quarter of their classes. Why do they want a more liberal cut system than this?”

THOMPSON

Dr. Thompson was of the opinion: “The ‘B’ student should have more freedom in cuts.” He explained that the student serious enough to get a “B” average should have the privilege to decide whether he must attend a class or cut. “Some would get hurt at first and I would make the freshman prove himself (before allowing unlimited cuts).”

ABERNETHY

Editor’s note: Dr. Abernethy was contacted for a statement to complete this article. He had previously prepared a statement of some five hundred words and was unable to condense it, nor would he allow the DAVIDSONIAN to condense it. The DAVIDSONIAN, therefore, realizing the limitations, both in words and time, feels in all fairness unable to publish the whole of Dr. Abernethy’s statement, as well-done as it is.

GOODYKOONTZ

Dr. Goodykoontz advocated unlimited cuts for everyone. “The effect that unlimited cuts would have is speculative. It would involve one of two possibilities. If standards were not relaxed, and I don’t think that they should be, there would be a casualty list, perhaps a fairly large one for the first semester or two that it was tried. But I think that after that the school would be much better off: we would have more maturity and responsibility among our students and we would have lost those who were not here to get an education.”

“The second possibility: If the standards were relaxed to avoid a list of casualties, the entire school would suffer, including the students.”

McCUTCHAN

“I would personally welcome an unlimited cut system,” stated Dr. McCutchan, “at such a time that the students and faculty were ready for it. If the unlimited cut system were instituted now, I would hazard to guess that the result would mean more students washing out.”

“I have taught under four systems: no cuts, the present system, cuts proportional to grades, and unlimited cuts. In my experience the most satisfactory has been the unlimited cuts system. If imposed at Davidson, the system would be a discipline to both students and faculty, and I believe that for those who could adapt themselves to it, the results would be beneficial.”

SATTERFIELD

Dr. Satterfield ventured to say, “If Davidson’s policy will be to admit only students who are capable of doing good work, then there could be an unlimited cut policy for everyone. Students that can maintain a ‘B’ average should be allowed to go to class when they please; however, they should be required to take reviews, do term papers, or special projects required by the professor.”

“This puts responsibility upon the student. I remember, however, that there were classes in college that I felt were a complete waste of time and I could have done just as well by merely reading the book.”

By LOUIS BURTON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Board Of Visitors Hears College Progress Reports

Fifty distinguished representatives from nine states gathered on-campus this morning for the fourth annual meeting of the Board of Visitors. Participating in discussions directed by Chairman James J. Harris of Charlotte, the members of the board presented reports concerning public reaction to the college as seen by each in his business or community life.

The group heard a report on Davidson’s curriculum from Dean of Faculty, Frontis W. Johnston. President D. Grier Martin, in outlining the program by which Davidson is attempting to achieve the standards of excellence set forth by the 1958 Rockefeller report on “The Pursuit of Excellence,” quoted the value of Davidson’s physical plant at $10,000,000, and the present endowment at $9,437,191.

However, President Martin cautioned that “such a condition cannot be maintained without a continuing and ever stronger effort.”

During chapel this morning twelve new members of the board were presented to the student body: Dr. William C. Archie, ’29, Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at Emory University; Mr. Marlee Branch, ’27, President of The Southern Company; Mr. W. B. Dunlap, ’22, President of Rock Hill National Bank; and Mr. B. Calhoun Hipp, ’43, Investment Vice President and Director of Poinciana Chapel, Flagler Memorial, in Palm Beach, Florida.

Watlington Enumerates Southern Opportunities

“For years,” Watlington began, “the bright young men of the South have gone North to seek their fortunes. Now, however, the South is the land of opportunity. The South is the nation’s number one economic opportunity.”

Lindsay Presents Editions To Library

Rev. Samuel M. Lindsay, D.D., a close friend of Dr. John R. Cunningham, president emeritus, has donated a collection of six first editions to the Davidson Library. Dr. Lindsay, who is minister to the Royal Poinciana Chapel, Flagler Memorial, in Palm Beach, Florida, made the presentation in honor of Dr. Cunningham.

College Culture Class: A Taste Of Everything

“Nowhere else does the Davidson student get the opportunity to integrate so much material...” This is Professor Brad Thompson’s comment on the value of what is certainly the most interesting addition to Davidson’s curriculum in a long time. The course is “America in the Twentieth Century,” and the subject is every bit as broad as the title implies: It is actually twelve courses combined into one, and represents the very last choice of one who is addicted to that popular method of study known as “cramming.”

Instituted last year as a course open only to exchange students, the course was this year opened to American students who gain the consent of the staff. The general purpose, according to Professor Thompson, is to present a cross-section of contemporary American culture. The staff desires to have an equal number of foreign and American students. This year there are six Americans taking the course with all eight of the foreign students. One of the only courses of instruction offered anywhere that can boast of a faculty to student ratio of one to one, “America in the Twentieth Century” is staffed by thirteen teaching professors and Professor Thompson, who coordinates the program. Each of the professors teaches the phase of the material in which he specializes.

Besides two class periods of an hour and a half each per week, field trips are planned to various places to observe the American culture at work. One of the field trips has already been completed. Under Professor Thompson’s direction, the class visited the Southern Screw Company to see a factory that, begun by an immigrant in 1946, has grown into a multi-million dollar business. Later trips are planned to view industries, agricultural experimental stations, and perhaps other points of interest in the surrounding area.

The first subject, taught by Professor Reid, is “Resources and Regions of the United States.” Professor Minter’s classes concerning the United States’ government and constitution is entitled “Political Institutions.”

ROTC Has Annual Open Turkey Shoot

The ROTC Department and Scabbard and Blade will jointly sponsor their annual Turkey Shoot next Tuesday, November 24. The Shoot will be held in the indoor firing range of the ROTC Department in the basement of Belk Dorm. The Turkey Shoot is being given for the faculty, administration and anyone else who is or has been connected officially with the college.

For Monday Concert

The internationally famous Pamplona Choir from Spain, conducted by Luis Morondo, will appear on the Davidson College Artist Series Monday, November 23, at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium.

The program will include a group of songs by four great Spanish composers, Carl Orff’s “Carmina,” composer “Catulli Carmina,” and native Spanish songs. This group of 16, which is currently making its second tour of the United States and Canada, is hailed as the “greatest chorus of its size in the world.” Critics of two continents have described it in such terms as “absolute perfection,” “a real orchestra, made of voices,” and “second to none.” The choir is described as being so flexible that it can “achieve instrumental effects such as echoes, bells, and percussion.” At times, the adaptable voices give the impression of a great organ, rather than a choir.

Proof of the choir’s success are the awards which it has won. Perhaps the most outstanding award was the Grand Prize of Honor won in 1950 at the International Contest for music in Lille, France, a competition which involved 186 choruses from 17 different countries. Other awards have been won in Paris, Buenos Aires, and Algiers.college, and their families. (Continued on page four) The shoot will be conducted from four to six o'clock in the afternoon. The contestants will use .22 caliber rifles. The prizes, all of which have been donated by Davidson merchants, include turkeys, nylon hose, free pool games, and many other items. There will be refreshments, entertainment, and special movies for the children. There is no admission charge. Last year 85 people took part in the shoot and there were about 75 children present. Always a feature of this shoot is a mystery bird. The mystery bird is a target in the shape of a turkey. The exact bull’s-eye is never marked on the front. “In this manner,” said Captain Mitchell, “anyone can hit the mark.” Captain Mitchell continued, “You don't have to be a marksman to win a prize. Practically all you have to do is be there.”

Excerpts from the contemporary German opera works of Bartok and Zoltan Kodaly, and other composers will be performed. Non-students may obtain tickets for $2 each from The Artist Series, Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. Students are admitted free.

The Board of Visitors was organized by the Trustees of Davidson in 1956 as an advisory council to the college administration. In addition to submitting recommendations for the betterment of the college, the Board discusses various issues such as drinking and after-dance party pledges.

Liberty Life Insurance Company, Mr. J.T. McConnell, '27, Executive Vice President of Reynolds Metals Company; Mr. Jean Mauze, '23, Vice President of Securities; Mr. Richard B. Port, '47, Advertising Manager of P.M. Hanes Knitting Company; and Mr. Robert M. Vance, '37, President of M.S. Bailey & Son Bankers, are notable members. Mr. C.W. McCrary, President of U.S. Trust Company; Mr. Henry T. Mills, '06, Investment Manager; and Mr. W.H. Stuart of Florida have also contributed significantly.

The Student Council's forum on the drinking problem, after a three-day delay, finally jelled last night in the Union Ballroom with 4 faculty members, 10 panelists, and approximately 35 students present. It was the first of a series of such proposed forums that will concern the vital issues on the Davidson campus. President Dee Green opened the forum with the purpose of addressing the issue of drinking and after-dance parties. “We are here to try to become acquainted with some of the things behind this issue. We hope to get some proposals from the faculty and student body along this line.”

John Stone and Mr. C. Shaw Smith will attend the Student Conference on National Affairs at Texas A&M University from December 9-12. After competition between several Davidson students selected by the faculty, John Stone was chosen as Davidson’s delegate to the conference. Mr. Smith will serve as co-chairman of one of the Round Table discussion groups. This will be the fifth such conference. Its theme is “The United States: Problems of World Leadership.” The five student discussions will concern “Coping with Crisis: Areas in the Cold War,” “Pacing Challenges of the Space Age,” “Expanding our Economy in an Unstable World,” “Maintaining Effective Alliances within the U.N. Framework,” and “Educating for World Leadership.” The purpose of the conference is “to provide an appreciation of the complexities of the foreign policy of the U.S. to an increasingly large representation of college students of the South and Southwest.” Keynote speakers for the conference will be Ceylon’s ambassador to the United States, the Hon. R.S.S. Gunewardene; the commander of Redstone Arsenal, Alabama, Gen. J.B. Medaris; and Dr. H.R. Bowen, president of Grinnell College in Grinnell, Iowa.

Mr. Smith commented, “Many of us feel that we are not doing nearly enough concerning affairs on the campus. We are attending this conference by invitation, preparing for the Great Issues Series next spring.” “In connection with this,” he continued, “we need to develop the foreign students and explore ideas on international questions.”

The Slater Food Service will hold its annual Thanksgiving Dinner next Tuesday night in Chambers Dining Hall. The meal will be held at 6 p.m. Mr. M.G. Stephanos, manager of the College Union Food Service, announced that special faculty and administration guests will be present. Students are requested to wear coats and ties.

Following the presentation of new members, Mr. John F. Watlington, Jr., President of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, spoke on “Opportunities in the South” in which he rated the South today as “the nation’s most promising region.” He also presented first editions of works by Sir Walter Scott and Robert Burns. The books donated this week included first editions of D.H. Lawrence's "The Lost Girl" and Robert Louis Stevenson's "The Ebb Tide," "A Footnote to History," "Island Nights’ Entertainment," and "St. Ives." Other volumes which were donated, but were not first editions, were "Treasure Island" by Robert Louis Stevenson, "The Complete Poems of Robert Burns," John Stuart Mill's "On Representative Government," Sir Walter Scott's "Marmion," and a biography of Robert Burns by Dr. John Nichols. An edition of Sir Walter Scott’s "Lady of the Lake," dated 1815, and a facsimile of the first edition of "The Bay Psalm Book" were also given.

Cloistered Sabbaths See Ascent Of “Sin”

Place: Davidson College
Time: A Sunday in 1859

Sunrise: Prayers for all students, followed by breakfast.
One Hour After Breakfast: Sabbath School, which time is spent reading the Bible. This continues until 11:00.
11:00: Sermon by one of the faculty members.
Dinner
3:00: All students go to chapel for Bible lesson recitations.
Sunday evening: Sermon by one of the faculty members.

Place: Davidson College
Time: A Sunday in 1959

Sunrise: The few students who chose to remain on campus for the weekend and those who went to Converse, Charlotte, or Salem just for the evening are probably safely abed by this time (excluding, of course, dance weekends).
One Hour After Breakfast: There is no such term as Sunday Morning Breakfast in the modern Davidson vernacular; so one hour after breakfast is impossible.
11:00: Sermon at the Davidson Presbyterian Church for the faculty, townies, and a handful of YMCA workers.
Dinner: By 12:30 activity begins to pick up. The effects of the previous evening have worn off, and the students slowly drag themselves out of bed, realizing six days of hard work separate them from another delicious Saturday night.
3:00: Sleep, study, flickerball, etc.
Sunday evening: The 7:15 traffic jam finds half of the students rushing back from weekends in an effort to reach vespers by 7:30. After vespers, faculty visiting by a very small percentage of the student body.

Sundays at Davidson College have witnessed a change in the past one hundred years. The rules and regulations concerning religion have changed correspondingly. In 1859 the following paragraphs appeared in the Davidson College Catalogue:

1. The denial of the being of a God, or the inspiration and divine authority of the Holy Scriptures or an endeavor to propagate principles subversive of the Christian Religion, by a student, shall subject him to expulsion from College.
2. No student shall violate the Sabbath Day by engaging in worldly employments or recreations.
3. The President of College, with the aid of the other members of the Faculty, shall maintain Public Worship in the Chapel on the Lord’s Day, and daily morning and evening prayers, which services the students shall attend in a reverent and becoming manner.
4. No student shall leave the College grounds to visit his home, or any other place whatever, or to go beyond the limits of an ordinary walk for recreation, without obtaining express permission from the Faculty.

In 1959 there is only one regulation comparable to those above:
1. On the Sabbath day there shall be no games or conduct of any sort inconsistent with the proper keeping of the Sabbath.