FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1959

TO THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

By B. MILLNER
Davidsonian Sports Editor

Three weeks ago William E. Dole warned that all was not so rosy as a 42-6 opening game win would
seem to indicate. “From here out, we could win them all or lose them all,” he said. Still in September,
the DAVIDSONIAN posed this question: Will the ‘Cats crumble if injuries should shift the load from the capable shoulders of
seniors Charlie Benson and Dave Warden?

The 1959 football season has reached the midpoint. Conditions seem to indicate that the latter part of Coach Dole’s warning
may loom accurate.

DAVIDSON PARTISANS who had the misfortune to eye-witness the Richmond debacle last week came away with a common observation: Richmond
is the dirtiest football team that Davidson will have to play this year. The words “unscrupulous” and “mean” just don’t
quite fill the bill in describing the Spiders. They are admittedly a tough, hard-hitting ball club, possibly the best Davidson
will play this season. But there is a difference between hardnose football and the out-and-out dirty variety. When a team
is penalized 145 yards in one game, it’s not because they were offside an inordinate number of times.

We've seen this before. Last year, after Richmond had edged us 27-22 on Richardson Field, the local gridders came to
classes looking like they’d been on the losing side in a knife fight. One of the chief perpetrators of the
extracurricular activity in the line was an end named J. P. Vass. We hear that V.M.I. coach John McKenna, a
man who will not tolerate dirty ball on his team or his opponents, has written a letter of complaint to
conference officials. As a result of Saturday’s stinging defeat at the hands of Richmond, 21-7, Quarterback Charlie Benson, master of
the pass-or-run play, fell before a crushing Spider block last weekend, and re-injured his swollen knee. He may be out
for the season.

By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The 'Cats have no option—no option play, that is. The DAVIDSONIAN query has been at least partially answered in the
affirmative. The Wildcats have not won since the Catawba game. And last week Charlie Benson's knee injury was severely aggravated
by a brutal blind-side block in the Richmond game. This week Coach Dole gave some frank answers to pertinent questions
thrown at him in a sports staff interview.

Q: Could you at this time make an estimate as to what kind of record we'll end the season with?
A: If Benson doesn’t get well we could easily wind up with one win and eight defeats. The rest of
the squad will have to take up the slack. We're just not deep enough.

Q: Just how serious is Benson’s loss?
A: He was our offense. The offense centers around the option play. Tee Redding is a fine passer but he
can’t run the option, although that is certainly no reflection on him. Morton is a smart boy and a fine
athlete but you can’t learn to be a quarterback in six weeks. Look at it this way: We haven't had
an offense since the P.C. game. Benson was healthy in the Catawba game and in the first half against P.C.
(Davidson scored 63 points in those six quarters). He was first hurt in the third quarter against P.C.

Q: How serious is Benson’s injury? Do you know when he will play again?
A: We don’t know how bad it is. His leg is in a cast now. He underwent examination and treatment.

* * * * *

WILDCAT END Danny House is resolutely closing in on the Southern Conference pass receiving record, and we're betting that he'll
set a new mark without a doubt. House, in only four games, has grabbed 26 passes, one more than his
season total last year. He has to catch only 10 more to break the record Ray Siminski set in 1958.
He has caught over half the aerials thrown by Davidson quarterbacks.

It will be up to teammates Tee Redding and Duncan Morton to carry Benson's load and overpowering V.M.I. next week
in Lexington, Va., as Davidson hits the brunt of Southern Conference play.

DICK DALTON was undoubtedly the happiest man on the field last Saturday when Mike Laughlin drove home the shot that
won a soccer game against King College with 57 seconds left on the clock. Dalton had scored King’s first goal.
King was threatening to score and Dalton, a fine first-year defense man, was moving after the ball. A teammate signaled
Dalton to pass the ball to the Wildcat goaltender, Claude Finney, who, in turn, was to kick it out of
the danger area. Finney wasn’t expecting the play and the sphere rolled by him into the King goal for a
score. Coach Paul Marrotte absolved Dalton from any blame, however. The fault probably lay with the lineman who called the
play, he said.

Coach Charlie Parker requests that anyone interested in trying out for varsity wrestling meet in the wrestling room in the
gym Monday at 4 p.m.

* * * * *

But America’s most famous lady does it! No Paris design of '59 is more lovely than this ageless beauty, a
gift from France. 75 years ago, she welcomed millions to these shores with the words, “Give me your tired, your
poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free... I lift my lamp beside the golden door.” Miss Liberty has stood
as a symbol of freedom and hope.

When you're in New York, be sure to make the trip over to see Miss Liberty. And wherever you are
right now, enjoy the cigarette that’s kindest to your taste. Live Modern with L&M! Low in tar, with more taste
to it. No wonder more Americans switch to L&M every day!by an orthopedic surgeon in Charlotte. It's just a matter
of time.

Q: What changes do you plan to make in the next two weeks?
A: I can't say just now what specific changes we'll make. We will change our offense to some extent. We'll
try to run more.

Q: What teams remaining on the schedule do you think you have a chance to beat?
A: They're all tough. I don't see a sure win anywhere.

Q: How much has the conference ruling on freshman eligibility hurt this year?
A: We've always lettered some freshmen. This year we have five boys who could letter playing varsity ball. We've always
been hurt for depth here but this year without freshmen we're in worse shape than ever.

Q: Hasn't the ruling hurt other small schools in the conference?
A: Well, it's hurt them some, but Furman brought in 45 boys on scholarship last year and 55 this year
(Dole has around ten freshmen receiving aid).

Q: Do you expect any change in the ruling?
A: No, of course not. The big schools voted it in and it's to their advantage to keep it in.
The big schools aren't interested in the little schools.

Q: Do you foresee any action on our part as far as the conference is concerned?
A: I can't say anything about that. High administration decides on our policy. My own personal opinion is that if
scholarships don't go up we'll have to affiliate with church-supported schools like Wofford and Newberry and P.C. We'll have no
other alternative. But then, we would still be in almost the same situation. They would be playing boys who barely
have "C" averages. Our standards are so much higher.

Q: Is your problem that you don't have enough scholarships or that you can't get your boys in?
A: Both.

Soccer Squad Set For Pfeiffer Meet

The Wildcat soccer team roared into full gear yesterday in beating the Belmont Abbey eleven 4-1 in Belmont. With a
3-1 record, the 'Cats caught highly regarded King College in their first game last Saturday and sloshed to a last-minute
victory on a murky afternoon. Star center forward Mike Laughlin booted home the winning goal to break out of a
2-2 tie with only a few seconds remaining on the clock.

Davidson drew first blood in the initial quarter when winger Tom Price rifled a shot into the backstop. Dave Irvin
put the 'Cats two goals ahead as he nudged a tantalizingly slow ball past the King goalie. Dick Dalton unintentionally
opened the King scoring column when he deflected a loose ball past Claude Finney into the King goal during the
third quarter. Jose Yanez tied the game with an assist from Andrew Sarkaney.

Paul Marrotte praised the fine Davidson first half, "For the first 30 minutes our line played as well as I've
ever seen a Davidson line play." Marrotte said that Pfeiffer should not pose any great problem if the team hustles,
"They're not any stronger than Belmont and we should be able to take any eleven men we've got and beat
Belmont. If the boys want to win it, they shouldn't have too much trouble. Belmont beat Pfeiffer 2-1."

"We're really pointing to Duke in Durham next Friday," Marrotte admitted. "We've really got a good chance if the line
continues to develop and play as well as it did in the first half against King. I think there is
a definite possibility of an upset."

Undefeated Harriers

Davidson's outstanding cross-country team continued its winning ways with a 38-43-50 victory over Catawba and Virginia Tech in a triangular
meet here Wednesday. The wins Wednesday coupled with a 20-35 victory over The Citadel last Friday and previous wins over
Wake Forest and Pembroke leave Davidson with a perfect 5-0 record.

In the meet Wednesday, the brilliant individual performances of runners from both Virginia Tech and Catawba were overshadowed by the
superior depth of the Davidson team. Virginia Tech's Louis Castagnola and John Finch took first and second places with times
of 23:17 and 23:21 respectively for the four miles. Catawba’s Richard DeVictor took third. From then on it was almost
all Davidson. David Gilmour and Bill Eckbert came in fourth and fifth with times of 23:30 and 24:02 to lead
the Davidson team.

In cross-country, the place that first place man wins one point; second place acquires that a team must have depth
to win. Virginia Tech and Catawba both lacked depth Wednesday.

Coach Heath Whittle was enthusiastic about his team after the meet Wednesday. "They're coming along," he said. "Yes sir, they're
doing all right. That's the stiffest competition that we've had. Catawba beat us last year, you know. I'm real pleased
with our progress." Coach Whittle praised Virginia Tech's Castagnola, who finished first. "He'll give a lot of trouble in the
conference meet," Whittle commented.

Davidson meets High Point and Furman in a triangular meet here next Friday. Coach Whittle says that Furman is definitely
a conference contender. "They have a good well-balanced team. But High Point might beat them. High Point beat Catawba pretty
bad the other day. They are giving scholarships over there, too. We should get our roughest competition against those two
teams."

Marrotte praised the work of wingman Tom Price and Dave Irvin and the stabilizing effect of Mike Laughlin in the
line. Laughlin was recently moved in from a wing.

Phi Delts, Betas Whip Kappa Sigs To Pace F-Ball Action

This past week of flickerball action saw three teams remain undefeated and the previously unbeaten Kappa Sigs lose two games
in as many days. The Phi Delts won three to bring their record to 5-0, while the Betas, also 5-0,
won two. The Sigma Chis held on to third place with a 3-0 record. The Phi Gams, winning three contests
this week, moved to fourth place in the league with a 4-1 record.

In Monday's action, the Phi Delts handed the Kappa Sigs their first loss, 19-7. The SAEs scored nine touchdowns and
three extra points in a 63-0 romp over the Sig Eps, while the Sigma Chis won their contest with the
KAs by an impressive 44-14 margin. The Phi Gams defeated the Pi Kapps.

On Tuesday, the Phi Delts trounced the Pi Kapps 33-6. The Betas romped to a 33-6 win over the Kappa
Sigs, while the Phi Gams bounced the Sigma Nus. The ATOs downed the Pikas 21-0. Wednesday's games were postponed because
of rain.

Tuesday's action saw the Betas notch their fifth win with a 26-6 victory over the Pi Kapps. The Phi Delts
beat the Sigma Nus 46-12, while the Sig Eps won their first game in five tries, 13-12 over the winless
Pikas. The Independents forfeited to the Phi Gams.
