FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1959

Sports / Lead By JIM HAMILTON

Carolina may have had York Larese Wednesday night, but Davidson had Semi Mintz. And I don’t think anybody here would have wanted to swap. On Wednesday night the Wildcats played host to the Furman five and downed the Purple Palladins by a score of 74 to 59. This victory was an important one for the home team because it virtually assured the Davidson squad of a berth in the Southern Conference tournament.

Trailing by two points at the half, Coach Tom Scott’s hoopsters put on a strong, second half surge which resulted in the final 15 point margin. Leading the Wildcat rally was guard Semi Mintz who bucketed 29 points in a tremendous individual effort. 

Second only to Mintz’s tremendous shooting was the jumping-jack rebounding of Davidson’s answer to the kangaroo, Eddie Stewart. The duo, combined with the enthusiasm (to quote a prominent orator) of the whole squad, was too much for Furman, who succumbed.

By the way, in case somebody is now interested, the Southern Conference tournament will be in Richmond.

By PETE WYRICK

Spring sneaked into wintery February early this week and Davidson athletes took advantage of the break and migrated outdoors. Much in evidence were the Whittlemen jogging around the track welcoming the chance to get in shape for the Southern Conference indoor meet this weekend at Lexington.

With more favorable weather, Coach Whittle began track practice with 27 men ready and reporting. “We won't have the experience we had last year, since we have lost at least seven key men. However, in the last three days the fine spirit has been encouraging.”

“I'm rather encouraged,” he said seriously. “The boys have been working hard, but I doubt if we'll be in shape for the indoor meet this weekend. However, I'm taking fourteen boys to Lexington. I hope we can win at least five of our seven regular season’s meets. Furman and especially Citadel will be tough. Both schools have a good many scholarships, but Furman only beat us by one point last year so we've got a good chance there.

“We'll be strong in the sprints. Mel Armstrong is back after being in the service. He didn’t lose in the 100 or 220 in a dual meet the last year he ran. Also Marvin Bently, top sprinter last year, will be with us. Our cross country boys, McNeill, Eckbert, Cole, and Thompson are going to help in the distances. And of course there’s conference mile champ, Angus McBryde.

“We ought to be tough in the broad jump with Hugh Murray, Armstrong, and Kai Pernanen from Helsinki. They all get around 21 feet. Our goal right now is the open division of the A.C.C. indoor meet on March 14. It’s the best meet in the South. We'll be in shape by that time and might do something, even though we'll be competing against such rugged teams in this section as Navy and Georgia Tech. All in all, though, I think we'll have a pretty good season.”

Looks like Whittle may not need “polysyllabic phraseology” this year. His runners might do the talking for him.

Tonight the Wildcats are in Charleston, where they meet the Citadel in their final game of the season. The ‘Cats will be trying to avenge their earlier defeat at Davidson.

Action this week also closed out a fine season for the freshman squad. Coach Joe Hunt's Wildkittens have dropped only four games this year and they registered another victory Wednesday by defeating the Furman freshmen 83-66. Tonight they meet the Citadel frosh at Charleston.

Trackmen Run In S. C. Indoor Meet

The Davidson College track team coached by Mr. Heath Whittle is preparing for its ten meet schedule. Several men are looking exceptionally good. One of the brightest spots in the track picture is the return of sprinter Mel Armstrong. The Tennessee speedster is returning from a year’s absence served in the Army. Angus McBryde is expected to repeat last year’s fine performance in the 880 and mile runs. Al McKay also runs the 880. Chris Bremer in the hurdles; Larry McNeil, a two miler; and Brownie Thurman and Ed Kiser, 440 men, are some other standouts.

Warden returns to throw the shot and discus. Hefty Charles Rutherford will also help with the weights. Returning to handle the javelin throw are veterans Stewart Nickles, Angus McBryde, and sophomore Andy Agget. Completing the cast are pole vaulters Paul Erckman, and John Huie and broad jumpers Hugh Murray, Armstrong, and Kai Pernanen.began practice on Feb- |; i t —_ a ALEX PORTER, Davidson’s up-and-coming heavyweight wrestler, takes a lesson from PAGE THREE Hustling Cats Down Furman Mintz Guides Team Into Tourney; All That Season Ends Against The Citadel) —atharaatle, wrestling coach Charlie Parker. Porter has only lost two matches this year. (Photo by Rhyne) V.P.I., Wildcats Tangle In Blacksburg Tomorrow Coach Charlie Parker's short-handed grapplers take on V.P.I., the juggernaut of southern collegiate wrestling, tomorrow at Blacksburg, Virginia. The V.M.I. squad this afternoon at Lexington. The Wildcats, minus the services of Carroll Pitts and Walter Taylor in the lightweight divisions, were upset 20-16 by Pfeiffer, who had managed to win only one weight in a previous match. Phis Pace Courtmen; Y Beta, KA Lead Handball By TOM PATRICK Inter-Fraternity basketball entered the 9th round this week with the Phi Delts continuing to hold their lead with an 8-0 record. Also impressive and in a threatening position were the up-and-coming Phi Gams with an 8-1 record. Both these two teams saw action this week. The Phi Delts downed the PiKA’s and the Sigma Chis, and the Phi Gams defeated the Kappa Sigs and the SAE’s. Following the Phi Gams in the standings are the SAE’s in 3rd place with a 6-2 record, the Kappa Sigs in 4th with 5-2, and the PiKaps in 5th with 5-3. In handball action this week, the KA’s, SAE’s, and ATO’s emerged victorious over the Sigma Nus, PiKaps, and Phi Gams respectively, and the Betas defeated the Kappa Sigs. The Phi Delts downed Sigma Chi, and the Independents lost to the PiKA’s. The KA's and Betas have both won six matches and are tied for first place. The Betas are led by last year’s champs, Jim Reynolds and Ned Gwathmey. The Phi Delts, with a 5-1 record, are in third place, and the ATO's are close behind with 4 wins and 1 loss. Lucky us... today is the modern ice age. Lots and lots of it in refrigerators ready to ice up the Coke. And what could be more delicious than frosty the real refreshment. Coca-Cola... With its cold crisp taste and lively lift it’s always Coke for The Pause That Refreshes! BE REALLY REFRESHED...HAVE A COKE! Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD “Coke” is a registered trademark, © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY. 'Cats wrestled a strong | tremendous —_—~ + + By “B” MILLNER Milton Gee, Harold Westervelt, Jim Allen, and Alex Porter won in last Monday's tussle, but pins and forfeits in the lightweight divisions proved disastrous. Parker commented dolefully, “Pfeiffer was kind of slow, but I knew it was coming — wasn't anything I could do about it.” DEMONS ROUTED Things had looked rosy before the dance weekend when the ‘Cats mauled Wake Forest's not-so-demonic Deacons 33-5. The Baptists’ only points came from a forfeit and a two-point loss by decision. Davidson won all but one match by falls. In an unofficial freshman match, the four wildkittens who made the trip won also. Parker was not optimistic about today's match against V.M.I. He said that even at full strength his boys would have a tough time against the Keydets and with the present personnel situation, “we will be lucky to win in three or four weights.” V.P.I. RUGGED He was even less enthusiastic about the V.P.I. match tomorrow. V.P.I., probably the best wrestling team in the south, has beaten the likes of Auburn and ACC champion, Maryland. Parker surmised that Gee, Allen, Westervelt and possibly Porter “have a chance to win.” Westervelt, the Conference 167-pound champ, is likely to face Tom Burris, also a conference title holder. Undefeated Milton Gee may have to tackle brilliant Sherman Van Donender, who has been a loop champion for three years. V.P.I. also had two other title holders in the 130 and 137 weight classes. The ‘Cats end their regular season here this Wednesday at 3:30 with a match against strong Washington and Lee. Swimmers Race U.S.C.; Look To Conference Meet By BILL GODWIN The Wildcat varsity and freshmen swim team met South Carolina yesterday in Columbia with the conference tourney only one week off. With a victory, Coach Tucker’s tankmen would wind up the regular season with seven wins in ten matches. Last year Carolina was beaten impressively, 48-38. “If the boys don’t let down after that Washington and Lee meet,” Coach Tucker said Wednesday, “we ought to come out all right.” W & L, a non-conference team, dunked the ‘Cats handily last Friday, 60 to 29. Back on the Carolina meet, Tucker looked to his greatest strength — distance. He pointed out Tom Hudgins and Jim Alexander in that department. But his divers, he complained, were doubtful. Jack Columbia was sick and Jennings Snider, out for football, had scarcely practiced this week. Said Tucker, “We've got one point in our favor, though. We always win on the road.” He expected the Citadel to be the toughest competition in the Southern Conference meet. “If it weren't for Citadel's depth and its sprinters, we definitely could win,” Coach Tucker said. “But next year, if all our boys return (except senior captain Bob Wynne), we WILL win.” Rifle Team Tries For League Title By BOB GREEN The Wildcat sharpshooters journey to Clemson today to fire against the Tigers and Presbyterian College in a triangle affair. The riflers own a 5-0 Western Conference average and a 2-1 mark in Southern Conference competition. W & L's Generals edged past the ‘Cats last Wednesday, posting a 1368 to Davidson's 1362. The visitors’ highest score was 286 while Stan Gaines fired a 278 for the losers. Davidson's five-man squad ran up an impressive 1371 points to whip Furman and Wofford in Spartanburg on Friday. Ronald Fonda led the scoring with a 282, followed by Gaines’ 277 and Harper’s 275. On March 4, the team will travel to Morgantown, West Virginia, for the Southern Conference Tournament. The Citadel, which is the only team to down the ‘Cats in Southern Conference competition this year, will be favored to take the conference crown. The 'Cats, sporting a 5-0 record, have an excellent chance to win the Western Conference title. If the riflers beat P.C. today, the title will be sewed up. CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1900 W. MOREHEAD ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Open Nitely 5-12 P.M. FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ED 2-2414 After 2 P.M.