Editorial: The Vocal Majority (See Page Two)

VOL. XLVI

Nineteen Top Seniors

Nineteen Davidson College seniors have been chosen for this year’s “Who’s Who In American Universities and Colleges.” They are as
follows:

Ed Armfield, of Winston-Salem, is editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN and a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, as well as
Omicron Delta Kappa, national fraternity honoring leadership.

Larry Baggett, a physics major from Orlando, Fla., is a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity and Pi Sigma
Pi, national honorary physics fraternity. He is presently serving as a member of the Honor Court.

Charles Benson, of Maitland, Fla., was co-captain of the 1959 football team. He is a member of Alpha Tau Omega
social fraternity and Omicron Delta Kappa.

Bob Croom, of Maxton, N.C., is a pre-medical major. Active in ROTC, Bob was chosen as “Best Cadet in Camp”
last summer and is presently cadet commander of the Davidson cadet brigade. He is a member of Kappa Sigma social
fraternity.

Milton Gee, of Greensboro, was judge of the Court of Control this year. As an athlete, Gee has participated in
wrestling and cross-country sports as well as holding membership in “D” Club. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi
social fraternity.

Dee Green is president of the Davidson student body and makes his home in Charlottesville, Va. Green plays baseball, is
a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, and Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

John Huie, of Albany, Ga., is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and a member of the student council. As
an athlete, Huie plays varsity basketball and track. He belongs to Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Fred Lane, of Winston-Salem, is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, and
Omicron Delta Kappa. He was recently elected to Phi Beta Kappa and is a member of the Student Council.

Bob Livingston, of Sebring, Fla., is judge of the Honor Court and is a member of Alpha Tau Omega social
fraternity. Livingston holds membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Beta Kappa, and represented Davidson last year as captain of the
G.E. College Bowl team.

Ward McKeithen, a senior from Winston-Salem, is president of the Interfraternity Council. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi
social fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, and is co-captain of the soccer team.

Larry McNeill, of Raeford, N.C., is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity.
McNeill holds membership on the Honor Court and participates in cross-country.

Woody Morecock, a business administration major from Covington, Ga., is a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity. This year he
is vice-president of the Interfraternity Council and is head of the College Union.

Tom Price, of Florence, S.C., is president of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. He
is on the soccer team and is secretary-treasurer of the Senior Class.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1959

Faculty Reaffirms Red Book Stand On Drinking Question

Decides To Consider Student Suggestions

By BOB MOORE
Managing Editor

After a two-hour meeting Tuesday afternoon, the Faculty reaffirmed the rule with reference to the possession and use of alcoholic
beverages. The rule is stated under Item four on page twenty in the Red Book of Faculty Regulations for Students.
Item four states:

Davidson College is opposed as a matter of principle to the use of alcoholic beverages by students. A student will
be suspended if he is found guilty of drinking, possessing or being under the influence of an alcoholic beverage while
within the town limits of Davidson or while attending any off-campus event sponsored entirely or in part by Davidson College.

The Faculty-Fraternity Committee made the proposal that the Faculty vote to reaffirm the rule.

Cats Travel To Louisville (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWELVE

Science, Music Departments Prepare To Move Facilities

By DAVID JORDAN

Extensive work will be done on the college physical plant during the Christmas holidays, R.A. Currie, business manager, announced today.
The transfer of music department facilities is scheduled to begin next week, and work on the Dana Science Laboratories is
entering the final stages.

In connection with the college building program, Robert J. Sailstad reported this week that only approximately $245,000 remains to be
secured for the John F. Cunningham Music and Fine Arts Center. According to present estimates, the building will cost “in
the neighborhood of $600,000.”

$80,000 COMMITMENT

An $80,000 commitment has recently been received from an anonymous donor, Mr. Sailstad announced. In addition, Mrs. Clarence Hodson, of
Winston-Salem and Orange, New Jersey, has pledged $10,000 toward this objective. While visiting the campus earlier this year, Mr. Charles
A. Dana announced a gift of $200,000 for the fine arts center. Before his commitment, $65,000 had been raised in
miscellaneous gifts for the fund.

DEMOLITION OF SHEARER

While actual plans for the new building are still in the formative stage, preliminary work in preparation for the demolition
of Shearer Hall is already in progress. The college expects to let the contract by the first of next week.

“The music department will vacate Elm Row next Thursday and Friday, moving to the white frame house on the east
side of the church parking lot on Lorimer Road. The offices of Professors Satterfield and Plott, and of Herb Russell,
plus three music practice rooms, will be housed there for the twenty-month construction period,” Currie explained. During the past week
workers have been installing shelves and a heating system for suitable conversion of the building for its new use.

ELM ROW

Elm Row is being moved approximately one hundred feet south to make the structure directly opposite Oak Row. This work
will begin the day after Christmas. Eventually, the two structures will be used solely as practice rooms in the completed
Fine Arts Quadrangle. Elm Row will be converted while the Music and Fine Arts building is under construction. Work on
Oak Row will be delayed until the completion of that building.

“The transfer of facilities from Shearer Hall will begin after the holidays, while demolition is tentatively scheduled to start following
the exam period,” Currie said.

MUSIC LIBRARY

The first floor of Eumenean Hall will be the temporary location of the record and music library.

Union Prepares Potpourri Of Jolly Christmas Cheer

The Student Union Christmas Party Thursday night will feature everything from dancing to the music of the “Hot Nuts” to
roasting marshmallows on the patio.

“Preparations for the Student Union party are in full swing,” remarked Woody Morecock, President of the Union. “We have a
lot of activities planned and Thursday night should be a hit. We hope to make it an annual affair.”

All three floors of the Union are being decorated by Miss Sandra Brown, decorator from Mellon’s in Charlotte. In the
Union Ballroom, where the Doug Clark Combo will be playing, will be a ceiling-tall Christmas tree decorated with imported lights.
Two artists will be donating their time to draw free caricatures under the modernistic gold foil mobiles in the Lobby.
Upstairs in the Blue Room (the Las Vegas Room) a hobby store in Charlotte will place free games of skill.
Blackie, a sleight of hand artist from Charlotte, will be performing in the Green Room (the Circus Room). In the
cafeteria downstairs, free refreshments will be served.

Reynolds Enlarges Salary Endowment

The Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation has given Davidson College a grant of $450,000 for faculty salary endowment, it was announced
late last week.

The gift, a part of Davidson’s ten-year program initiated in 1956 to raise $8,000,000 for the endowment of faculty salaries,
comes as a splendid recognition that the college can move ahead on all fronts,” commented Mr. R.J. Sailstad, executive secretary
of the college.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Personal views of the matter," the speaker commented. "I cannot speak for the Board of Trustees."

"I cannot speak of any of the discussions of the Trustees concerning this matter because if such discussions were held
in Executive sessions. The Board of Trustees are held in secret and not released to the public.

"Finally," Gorrell commented, "I cannot speak for the committee of which I was a member."

"Very optimistic about reaching our $4500 goal," commented Joe Eifort, Chairman of the 1959 YMCA Gift Fund Committee. "Operating room
equipment—lights and a surgery table—costing approximately $3000 have already been ordered from a German firm. This is the bare minimum
equipment for the operating room, and the other funds we collect will be used to furnish the room further."

Gorrell is a member of the Class of 1932 and serves as an alumni trustee of the college. He is
a native of Winston-Salem and serves as general agent for the Security Life and Trust Company in that city.

The annual blood drive will be held December 14th and 15th, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. each day in
the gym. Donors will receive a free drill cut for December 15th and a free PT cut for either the
14th or the 15th. Prizes will be given to the winners in the Las Vegas Room and to bingo winners
in the private dining room to the north of the ballroom. Free refreshments will be served in the hall on
the second floor and a free marshmallow roast should attract couples to the shuffleboard court on the south side of
the Union adjacent to the ballroom.

The drive is sponsored by the IFC in cooperation with the Mecklenburg Blood Bank. IFC president, Ward McKeithen announced that
a plaque will be given to the fraternity which has the largest percentage of donors. He said that this percentage
will be computed on the basis of those eligible to give, which excludes athletes and those medically unfit. The Sigma
Nus won this award last year. McKeithen said that the IFC hopes that the number of donors this year will
exceed 400. Last year 250 gave. The record is 425. Persons under 21 years of age must have a release
signed by their parents in order to donate blood.

Shortly after the Student Body decided on the Bangkok Christian Hospital in Thailand as the recipient of the Gift Fund
this year, Colonel Adams notified Dr. Marshall Welles, Director of the hospital. Colonel Adams received a letter from Dr. Welles
which included the following:

"Yesterday, we had a meeting of the Board of Directors of the hospital to plan for a birthday celebration for
the tenth anniversary since the hospital was founded and dedicated. I was very happy at that time to tell them
of your telegram, and what it means. They are all very grateful to you, and to the student body of
Davidson. I can still hardly believe it is true. It is so thrilling."

Eifort, chairman of the Gift Fund Committee stated that the committee had been pleased by the student response so far,
and expressed his hopes that the drive would be completed by December 18 so the money can be put to
immediate use.

"By buying the operating room table and lights from a German firm, the hospital can get the equipment for about
one-half to two-thirds of the price of similar American equipment," he continued. "This is a unique chance for Davidson to
evidence a warmness of heart for the people of Thailand and for their personal welfare. I hope we can make
the 1959 Gift Fund Program a tremendous success."

Dave Robinson, of Columbia, S.C., is president of the YMCA and a National Merit Scholar. Robinson is a history honors
student and is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Dabney Stuart, of Richmond, Va., is a member of
Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa. Stuart is a member of the Honor Court and of Beta Theta Pi
social fraternity. Thomas Smith, of Las Cruces, N.M., is vice-president of the YMCA. Smith is a member of Phi Delta
Theta social fraternity and a member of Eumenean Literary Society.

Henry Shue, President of the Westminster Fellowship, commented that the group is trying to present both sides of what it
considers a vital campus issue. "This is part of our attempt to make our group relevant to the campus and
its controversies."

He is a member of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem and has been a deacon, elder, and the superintendent
of the church school.

In the recent meeting of the Board of Visitors, President D. Grier Martin said that "despite the fact that faculty
salaries and benefits have more than doubled in the last ten years, it is imperative that Davidson find ways of
continuing the upward movement of faculty salaries. No other objective of the college seems more important in the achievement of
our goal of excellence."

"President Martin is working out at once the means by which the college may give proper recognition to the splendid
gift from Reynolds," stated Sailstad.

At eleven o'clock the Male Chorus will close the evening with a short concert followed by more Christmas carols where
everyone will join in. "Be there at eight o'clock with your date," added Morcock. "We're looking forward to a lot
of fun."

Prior to the Committee proposal, Dee Green, President of the Student Body and spokesman for a group of fraternity and
student body leaders presented to the Faculty a report and recommendations pertaining to the whole problem of off-campus drinking. The
report was given in reply to a suggestion made by the Faculty-Fraternity Committee. President Martin, Dean Johnston, and Dean Bailey
in a meeting with the fraternity presidents in November. At this meeting, it was suggested that the fraternity presidents discuss
a solution for off-campus drinking, particularly at after-dance parties.

The Faculty-Fraternity Committee pointed out the present inconsistency of Item four on page twenty in the "Red Book" and the
second pledge which fraternity presidents must sign regarding any after-dance parties. The second pledge states: My fraternity and I understand
that the signing of this statement in no way abrogates the faculty rule, which states: "A student will ordinarily be
suspended if he is found guilty of drinking, possessing or being under the influence of an alcoholic beverage while within
the town limits of Davidson or while attending any off-campus event sponsored entirely or in part by Davidson College."

The Committee stated that it had been generally assumed by implication that the second pledge permitted drinking at after-dance parties.
Several of the fraternity presidents said that they had been hesitant to sign the pledge because of the existing inconsistency
of Item four in the Red Book and the second pledge.

The four fraternity presidents: Bobby Livingston, Chairman of the Honor Court; Ward McKeithen, President of the Interfraternity Council and Dee
Green presented the following report and recommendations to the Faculty:

"Everything that we will attempt to propose rests upon two basic assumptions: (1) That drinking is a firmly established part
of the social pattern of Davidson College students; (2) That fraternity-sponsored parties are far better than the ones that are
sponsored by individuals."

Green and his committee then presented three possible answers to the problem: "(1) Davidson College could tacitly recognize these parties;
(2) The present pledge that is now signed by fraternity officers could be omitted and a new one written which
would allow no alcohol to be taken at these" (Continued On Page Four)

---

Dr. Marshall Welles, Director of the Bangkok Christian Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand is shown examining a patient. The student body
chose the hospital to be the recipient of the annual YMCA Gift Fund Drive which is now in progress.
