FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1959

SIDELINES ON SPORTS
By B. MILLNER

Perhaps it is appropriate, with Dr. Grier Martin's inauguration so near at hand, to take a look at our President
from the sporting viewpoint. Mr. (we can’t get used to calling him ‘Dr.’) Martin played forward and center on the
fine Davidson basketball team that enjoyed successful seasons during the years 1930-32. He didn’t have a scholarship, as subsidization was
not an official practice then.

When we asked him about his scoring average Mr. Martin grinned and said, “It wasn’t too high. I was high
point man my senior year but I only scored a total of 125 points.” He commented that the team’s best
season was his junior year when they won their first six games in a row, including wins over State, Carolina,
Duke, and Wake Forest.

Three outstanding men who played on that team are Bill Goodson, Captain, who has a son at Davidson now; Doc
Mathis, a forward, who is head coach at Elon College; and Dean Rusk, also a forward, who became a Rhodes
Scholar and spoke here this year. Mr. Martin compared basketball at Davidson then with the present style of play. “It
was a much slower game then because of the center jump after every basket made. Also, nobody knew the jump
shot—scores were much lower. Once when my boy Mike got to play against Duke as a sophomore, he scored eleven
points. He and D. G. laugh about that because when I played against Duke, they beat us 13-8.”

SPORTS AT RANDOM

Coach Whittle has had to do quite a bit of juggling to field a track team deep enough to win
any meets this season. Injuries to all-around trackman Chris Bremer and sturdy Larry McNeill, a reliable distance runner, have hurt.
But some of Whittle’s switches, plus a few new faces, and workhorse performances from the old hands have combined to
give the cindermen a very respectable 4-2 record. Ed Kizer gave up the 100 for the 440 and has won
all three of his races. Muscular Hank Pharr, who could hardly get off the ground last year, recently tied a
school record in the pole-vault. Walter Bishop wasn’t even going out for track until Whittle asked him to, and the
long-legged sprinter has done extremely well in the hurdles.

INDIANS RUN WELL

Coach Heath Whittle this week said that tomorrow's meet would be interesting. Catawba, in their fifth season, placed fourth in
the state Cross-Country trials last year. Finley Lee, who hadn't lost a tennis match up until his default at Durham
last week, has been taking heat treatments for his back, injured while delivering his “screwed-up serve” in the Duke match.
If Lee is not able to play today and tomorrow in Virginia, the 'Cats may be hard-pressed.

RICHMOND NEXT

One week from today Davidson will play host to Richmond’s Spiders. “They're weaker than Catawba—” said Whittle, “we should have
a pretty easy time.” Last year Richmond defeated the Wildcats. Davidson’s relay team proved outstanding in the Furman loss Wednesday.
Composed of Roger Beebe, Brownie Thurman, Ed Kizer and Chester Alexander, the foursome finished three yards ahead of the Furman
runners and were clocked at 3:29. Angus McBryde copped the two-mile run in 10:14.8.

Many thanks are due to John Poindexter’s father, who generously donated the green canvas background mats for the lower tennis
courts. Another court improvement will be the night lighting arrangement which the senior class has voted to equip the tennis
plant with.

We'd sure like to run the College Bowl news on the sports page, especially if Davidson wins, but Mr. Editor
won't see to it. Can’t you see those headlines now—DAVIDSON STOMPS MINNESOTA IN BOWL GAME.

CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 W. MOOREHEAD ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Open Nitely 5-12 P. M.
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ED 2-2414 After 2 P. M.

Do You Think for Yourself?

1. When you feel that certain fads are foolish do you talk against them?
2. Do gadgets such as new cigarette lighters often intrigue you so you want to take them apart?
3. Do you think that political candidates should write their own speeches instead of using a “ghost writer”?
4. Given the choice, would you prefer having an apartment of your own to living at home with your parents?
5. Do you base your choice of a cigarette on what people tell you rather than doing your own thinking?

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows — You'll notice that men and women who think for themselves usually smoke
VICEROY. Their reason? They’ve made a thinking choice. They know what they want and VICEROY gives it to them! A
thinking man’s filter and a smoking man’s taste!

*If you have answered “YES” to three out of the first four questions and “NO” to four out of the
last five... you really think for yourself!

©1959, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson’s net sextet, having suffered a 9-0 defeat by Chapel Hill’s stellar squad last Friday, traveled to Richmond today for
a Southern Conference match. The ‘Cats will be seeking revenge at Richmond and tomorrow at Washington where the travelers will
meet George Washington. Coach Dick McKee doesn’t feel that Richmond will be very stiff competition as several key players graduated
last year. The concrete courts at the Virginia school will provide some fast-moving play. George Washington, led by Davidson 6-3
earlier this season. Coach McKee stated, “GW is the only team better than Davidson in the conference. We might surprise
ourselves and beat them this time.”

Angus McBryde wins the mile by thirty yards in the High Point meet last Saturday. McBryde has yet to be
defeated in an outdoor meet this year. (Photo by Blake)

Wildcat Thinclads Meet Catawba Here Tomorrow

Davidson’s varsity trackmen, suffering from a 77.5-53.5 defeat at Furman Wednesday afternoon, will encounter Catawba College here tomorrow. The ’Cats
sport a 4-2 season record. It will be the first meeting of the two squads. Catawba, in their fifth season,
placed fourth in the state Cross-Country trials last year.

HIGH POINT CLOBBERED

Last Saturday on Richardson Field the Wildcats smashed an undermanned High Point squad, 97.5 to 31.5. “It was surprising,” Whittle
said, “how poorly they showed.” Davidson took the first three places in four events: javelin, mile, 440 and discus throw.
Outstanding Wildcat performance in the lopsided meet included a 175’ 2” javelin hurl by Stuart Nickolls, good for first place.
John Huie high-jumped five ft. 10 in. to share a first. In the 100-yd dash Mel Armstrong grabbed a win
in 10.2 seconds. Marvin Bentley was second. Frank Cenegy heaved the discus 132 ft. 11 in., as Davidson was without
competition from High Point. Hugh Murray and Mike Laughlin tied for first in the broad jump. Davidson also placed first
in the 220, the two-mile, and the shot, in which High Point did not enter. The only firsts for High
Point were in the high hurdles—Davidson took second; the 880—second and third place went to the Wildcats; and the low
hurdles and the relays.

FROSH UNDEFEATED

Coach Tucker's junior cinder-Graham 5-7, 6-2, 7-5. Hodel and Doug Orr teamed up to win their doubles match in straight
sets, 6-2, 6-1. The men clipped the Furman frosh Wednesday, 78 to 52 in Greenville. Grant McCrorie and Randy Austin
posted double wins to give the Wildkittens a three-wins-no-losses record. They have defeated East Mecklenburg High and Wake Forest, in
addition to Furman. McCrorie placed first in the 220 (23.7 seconds) and in the 100-yd dash (10.7 secs.). Austin heaved
the shot 39 ft. eight in., while sharing the broad jump mark at five ft. four in., with teammate Dan
Calhoun. Cross-Country standout David Gilmour copped the mile in 4:39. Larry Kinny was third. In the javelin throw Andy Boggs
distanced 140’ 11” for a first. He also took the discus with 123’ 5". John Chiles grabbed the other Davidson
win in the broad jump. He cleared 19’ 9.5", while Calhoun took third. The Wildkittens finished at least as high
as second place in all events. In the mile relay David Gilmour, Al Jones, Bill Whittington, and Grant McCrory were
beaten by Furman. John Harris took second places in the 440 and 880. Whittington was second in the high and
low hurdles. In the pole vault Tommy Lucas was runner-up.

The Wildcat golf team will meet South Carolina for a return match with Furman and Wake Forest in a triangular
match on the Myers Park Country Club course in Charlotte. The Davidson golfers will be swinging against the strongest team
in the Atlantic Coast Conference when they battle with Wake Forest on Monday. Although the Wake Forest team still hasn’t
played the University of North Carolina or North Carolina State, the strongest teams in this area. Geoffrey Bleck played errorless
tennis in pacing Carolina to a 9-0 decision over Davidson Friday. The veteran competitor breezed by Mintz, 6-0, 6-1. Bruce
Silvia, playing in Carolina’s number two slot, also played overwhelming tennis. The winners won eight of the nine matches in
straight sets. “Carolina’s team has made a great comeback in the past several years," McKee stated. “They have a real
good coach and are truly a great team. The Tar Heels were our best competition since Miami last year and
playing them will help us get ready for the conference match. We have a return match with them here on
the 23rd and we should see the finest tennis played at Davidson this year.”

The Davidson College rifle team copped second place in the North Carolina R.O.T.C. Invitational Tournament held in Raleigh last Monday.
The University of North Carolina Naval R.O.T.C. took first place with 3695 points out of a possible 4000. Davidson shot
for 3671 points. Wake Forest took third place in the match. Captain Stan Gaines and Co-captain Joe Wearn sparked the
riflemen with their usual top shooting. Gaines had the second highest individual score of the entire field with 764 points
out of a maximum of 800. He also had the third-high standing score, was high scorer for Davidson, and was
selected to the all-state team. Co-captain Wearn compiled the fourth highest tournament score. Wearn had the third-high kneeling score and
was selected to the all-state team along with Gaines. Other team members shooting well were Don Harper, Marvin Rozear, Bob
Barringer, and Ronald Fonda. None of the boys will be lost by graduation, and Sergeant McCurry is “looking forward to
a better season next year.”

By BILL GODWIN
Righthander Dee Green lifted Davidson’s baseball hopes here Wednesday afternoon, hurling a 13 to 1 victory over Presbyterian College. Going
into a two-day series at The Citadel today, the ’Cats carried a 2-9 season’s record. Probable pitchers were stocky righthander
Pat Henderson for this afternoon’s game and Green tomorrow. Coach Tom Stevens said, “I don't know what to expect from
the Bulldogs. They have a tough hitter named Jones and a good all-around ball club.” The Citadel last year finished
third in Southern Conference play. Coach Stevens said he might swap his centerfielders in this weekend’s series. Ed Garrett, he
said, may start in place of Harry Shaw. Garrett played seven innings in Wednesday's game. “If we have the pitching,”
Stevens said, “we'll be tough.” The Wildcats, scheduled for two games in the past six days, were rained out at
Pfeiffer last Saturday. Presbyterian took a beating Wednesday as the Wildcats clubbed out seven hits for 13 runs. Dee Green
went seven innings, allowing only five hits. The Cat bats exploded in the third inning for five runs in Davidson's
biggest single frame of the season. Bob Groome singled in Ed Garrett and Don Killian, who had doubled. Pitcher Dee
Green got a pair of R.B.I.'s with a single. He blanked P.C. without a hit for three innings and went
on to post his second win against one loss. Pat Henderson relieved him in the eighth. Third baseman Russ Cotton
boosted his batting average to .400 (16 for 40) with a double and a single to retain his lead over
Wildcat teammates. Dee Green is second with a .355 average. Shortstop Harold Bynum and second baseman Pat Henderson scored four
runs and combined for a pair of decisive double plays. Area major league scouts representing Washington, Baltimore, and the Chicago
Cubs watched the game. The Wildcat junior varsity, coached by Jim Walthal, clobbered Gaston Tech, 14 to 3, here last
Thursday. Jerry Sheffield and Jerry Shelton shared Kitten pitching duties, as first baseman Tom Harris connected for a homer. The
team, with a 3-1 season’s record, hosted West Mecklenburg High today.

By TOM PATRICK
Although bogged down by rain at the first of the week, Intramural softball wound into full swing Wednesday. Now in
the fourth round, the ATO’s held a 4-0 lead over the second place Phi Delt’s with a 3-0 record. In
third place, having lost only one game to the Phi Delt’s, were the Betas with a 3-1 record. The Kappa
Sigs, KA’s, Phi Gams, and SAE’s all have 2-1 records. Plans for the intramural tennis tournament have been made and
it has been decided to use a double elimination system instead of the single elimination system used last year. Those
entering in the singles: Jerry Clark, Kappa Sig; John Warlick, S.P.E.; Lee Cory, S.A.E.; Joe Milner, Phi Delt; Bert Keller,
Pi Kapp; Jim Parks, Pika; SX; Bob Davis, Phi Delt; Hight Redman, KA; Ned Gwathmey, Beta; and Burns, Ind. In
Wednesday’s action Bob Davis beat Bert Keller 7-5, 6-2; Lee Cory whipped Joe Milner 6-3, 6-2; and Hight Redman breezed
by Ned Gwathmey 6-2, 6-1. Finishing up this year as president of the IMAC, Ralph Wilson announced that the election
of new officers for next year will be held at the meeting Thursday, April 23.

By TOM RAIFORD
Early today the Davidson linksters journeyed to Greenville, South Carolina, for a match with the Purple Hurricanes of Furman University.
On Monday, April 20th, the Wildcat golf team will meet South Carolina for a return match with The Citadel Bulldogs.
The match is scheduled to be held at the Dunes Golf Club, one of the finest courses in the South.
In earlier season competition, the Wildcat linksters defeated a mediocre Citadel squad 22-5. This year the Davidson golf team includes
Verner Stanley, Tom Johnson, Sam Sloan, Sut Alexander, Bucky Dennis, and Gary Heeseman. At the end of five eighteen-hole rounds,
Stanley, Johnson, and Sloan are in the first, second, and third team positions respectively. Coach Scott recently commented, “We're very
fortunate in having six men who can shoot so close together. This makes for a good team. The overall squad
average is 74, which is very good for a team.” Dr. Scott also stated that there are no real low
or real high shooters on the team, and that all the players are just about alike. Consistency has played a
great part in their success this year.
