Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1959

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Party Pledge: More Harm Than Good

When the difficult question of after-dance parties is brought up Dean Bailey is often a difficult man to pin down, but there is one point on which he is unequivocal: the after-dance pledge required of fraternity officers, as it now stands, should be abolished. We heartily agree.

The pledge required is: I attended the party described above during the hours indicated below. To the best of my knowledge and belief, the party was conducted in a manner acceptable to the standards of gentlemanly conduct, and there was no profane or abusive language, indecent dress or gestures, conduct unbecoming a lady’s escort, or any other similarly gross ungentlemanly conduct on the part of the students present. There was no time during the party when at least one of the undersigned was not in attendance. My fraternity and I understand that the signing of this statement in no way abrogates the faculty rule, which states: “A student will ordinarily be suspended if he is found guilty of drinking, possessing or being under the influence of an alcoholic beverage while within the town limits of Davidson or while attending any off-campus event sponsored entirely or in part by Davidson College.”

In the three years since Dean Bailey consented to return to his job as Dean of Students he has requested that the rule be abolished. When he moved back into his office he expressed the opinion that he did not like the pledge and did not want to administer it.

Dean Bailey feels that the pledge is inconsistent with the overall policy of the College. Again we agree. While our position coincides with Dean Bailey’s, we have arrived there by a different line of thought. Our position is that the pledge places an unfair pressure on the individual fraternity officers. In some cases they are forced to “look the other way”, in others they must compromise their personal standards.

It is our conviction that the pledge in no way tempers after-dance parties. It is unknown by many and ignored by others. This is not to say that all after-dance parties are in violation of the pledge. Indeed, we who have attended these parties for the past four years consider them more acceptable now than in the past. But in no way is this due to the pledge. Fraternity members realize the uncertain status of after-dance parties and are doing their best to keep the privilege of administering their own social functions. A certain maturity is reflected in this.

If the faculty imposes this pledge on fraternities with the intention of alleviating after-dance problems we fear that their good intentions merely place fraternity officers in an unpleasant position. We respect the faculty's intentions; we question their methods. The DAVIDSONIAN offers no panacea for this problem. We do believe the pledge is worse than no control at all: both because it seems to sanction after-dance activities which are contrary to general school policy, and because it creates in itself an evil. This is a problem which lends itself to Student Council consideration. We hope that the Council will answer to the challenge presented—with more than discussion groups.

For The YMCA: New Status

Whether it was their avowed intention we're not sure, but the YMCA, by its successful sponsorship of the Book-of-the-Semester Program has raised its campus status a bit.

Programs with more potential have died in the past. Last year many thought that a program whose success depended on the voluntary reading of a book by a large number of the student body was doomed. The interest and participation of students this week proved the scoffers wrong indeed.

Where lies credit for the success of a program that was supposed never to get off the ground? Mainly in the work of an organization man, Tommy Colvin, and his committee.

When before have we been deluged with such frequent allusions, announcements, posters and even reminders from the sky of cultural opportunities? All of this is new to present-day Davidsonians. All of this has proved effective.

The secret of this project is old-fashioned hard work, for which there is no substitute. Tommy has worked against some substantial handicaps. One was a negative student attitude. Another which affected the Wednesday night attendance to hear Mr. Packard was a heavy schedule of reviews this week although the Book-of-the-Semester Committee had asked the faculty for cooperation along this line.

What the final results of the Book-of-the-Semester will be is at this time uncertain. We hope that the Y will continue it under equally enthusiastic leadership as that given by Colvin.

Telephone Romeos Must Go

It seems that as pleasant an innovation as the free telephone line to Charlotte can’t be made available to students without a few feeling obliged to take advantage of the system. Certainly cooperation should be the watchword in the use of college telephones. We are speaking specifically to those who avail themselves of this privilege to the inconvenience of others.

Most calls placed to girls’ schools must be completed before the regulations of that school—and they are often absurdly early—interfere. Dance weekend dates are often dependent on telephone calls that are never completed because of the inconsiderate actions of a few. The worst offenders are those who feel the need to talk on and on to Queens or Charlotte because the line is now free. They ignore the requests of their schoolmates to give others a chance, at least, at the phone. Those monopolizing phone booths often suggest that those waiting go to other floors. The others are always just as full. Inconsideration is not limited to one dorm or one offender.

We feel that five minutes is not an unreasonable limit to place on a call. Anything beyond that approaches the high school conversations which we should now have outgrown, and which result in nothing more than idle small-talk. As a rule violence isn’t a cure for any evil. However, when a call for a date can’t be completed because of someone's gabbing on ad infinitum the circumstances become downright extenuating and we're in favor of whatever methods are necessary to drag him from the booth after a reasonable amount of time. In this case, a little consideration of others would go a long way.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Jim Hamilton

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Livingston

BUSINESS MANAGER
Dick Smith

Associate Editor
Dave Gillis

Editorial Assistant
David Jordan

Managing Editors
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore

Sports Editor
B. Millner

News Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Charles Rose

Assignments Editor
Ed Armfield

Copy Editor
Dan Clemmer

Cartoonists
Redding Starling

Advertising Manager
Charlie Rowe

Circulation Mgr.
Albert McClure, Jr.

Ass't. Business Manager
Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

by Ackerman [From VA. “CAVALIER”]

Ackerman — Letters Score Bias, Baggett-Trap And ‘Backdrop Questions’ At D.C.

Larry Smith

Dear Editor:

In reference to Mr. Armfield's now well-known “lines on the African Problem”, I should really like to know just what these lofty ideals of the Southland for Southerners consist of. For a moment there I thought you meant Dr. Polley was attacking in his “allegory” some basic values we all and you all believe in or endorse—such as capitalism, democracy, or Christianity. Then I realized that these were not the issues at all—surely not those defended and even more certainly not those attacked.

What Mr. Armfield was defending has nothing to do with anything so universal or so decent. Actually these ideals of the South, when viewed from a detached position, plummet to the bigoted prattlings of a prejudiced race, desperately attempting to defend the indefensible—ridiculously enough on the intellectual plain. I cringe to think that any intelligent person could so rationalize his ethics as to rally for the causes of hate, injustices, and the immorality of caste—and do so with smugness and devotion to a self-assured sense of duty.

Perhaps in some imaginably far off point in time an unbiased “outsider” can express his views on the issues without being whispered away as “one of those damn Yankees who really can't imagine the real problem we all have down here.” All the while the Church in pious whimperings mills around sighing “Someday... someday... love one another... and will those in the back please lock the doors behind you?"

I would personally like to see the South adopt a new battle hymn of the republic, if not a new republic altogether!

While on the subject of small matters, I would like also to remind assistant Dean White that the dedicated efforts of his department to keep out “offensive, effeminate” boys from Davidson who wouldn't “fit-in”, have been rather ineffectual random remarks being any proper judgment. Indeed such types have permeated the fraternity brotherhoods, student government positions, all campus activities, the faculty, and perhaps even the Admissions Office. As to the feeling that such a person wouldn't fit in here, I am very surprised to see Mr. White expressing so little confidence in the Davidson motto. But after all you can't get blood out of a turnip.

Larry H. Smith

Larry Baggett

Dear Editor:

I don't know if many of the readers of the DAVIDSONIAN are familiar with the “Baggett Trap.” Well, I, Baggett, was not familiar with it bythis name until a few days ago. I was very much aware of its existence but thought that its true handle was “That Damn Thing.” There is a sort of walkway between the fraternity houses across which runs a creek. The “Baggett Trap” lies at this intersection. Now I do not maintain that I am outstanding as an independent blind man. As a matter of fact, I am not. It is only with the greatest strategy and precision maneuvering that I can make the trip solo. I do not ask your pity for me, but I do have some feelings for the girls who will be on this campus next week. Doubtless it will rain and naturally the “Trap” will be set. Of course, last year the college was so kind as to put up some wooden planks across the more swampy sections. However, this is not the answer because I know of one man’s blind date that caught a high-heel in those boards and broke all four of her legs. Now personally I like concrete or at least something more solid than the gravel we have now or the “temporary surface” we may get for homecoming. I think it's high time a fellow’s cane should go “click” instead of “sqush.”

Larry Baggett

David Robinson

Dear Editor:

On the stage far below but slightly in front of the massive backdrop of an expanding physical plant at Davidson there were playing last week several tragi-comic dramas. In the midst of successes in the realm of finance it was quite easy to forget the less successful efforts in other areas of liberal arts education; however, don’t forget forever. We personally feel that the areas in which Davidson has made lesser achievements are the areas most important in liberal arts education, and that it is the responsibility of both the DAVIDSONIAN and each of us individually to direct our attention to these realms, rather than to backdrop questions of physical plant or off-stage questions of the details and statistics of our admissions policy.

Each of us has his personal estimate of what the real issues are. I have already expressed my bias, but permit me to make it a little more specific, in terms of what, to me, are a couple of the greatest problems and unmet needs of Davidson College. The question of intellectual stimulation, as I see it, should be the object of our greatest concern. When I think of the intellectual conformity imposed each year upon a tremendously promising freshman class by upper-class attitudes, when I sense the stifling of the initiative and creative activity of some professors, when I note the over-cautious and begrudging atmosphere accompanying what reforms are obtained, and when I see that Davidson may be losing, in the near future, professors who have served as its greatest stimulants, I begin to question the quality of our intellectual life here. Is an intellectual purpose central at Davidson?

To me the second issue which demands our concern is the isolation of the various individuals of the Davidson community from the persons most vitally opposite to themselves. When I think of the bamboo curtain between fraternity men and independents, when I sense the artificial relationship between many members of the faculty and many students, when I note how deep is the line of social demarcation made by the Davidson railroad track, or when I read about the trustee policy on the admission of a Negro student, I begin to question the willingness of individuals at Davidson to enter into learning situations with persons of varying temperament and background. Are our extra-curricular activities and contacts challenging and strengthening our purposes and contributing to a search for truth?

It is my personal hope that we students and the DAVIDSONIAN will direct some of our best energies to the community issues which we think most urgent, not with foregone conclusions but with a dedication to discovering and acting upon the truth.

David Robinson

Sen. Sam Ervin

The DAVIDSONIAN
Davidson, North Carolina

Gentlemen:

This is to thank you for sending me a copy of the excellent cartoon which appeared in THE DAVIDSONIAN for October 9, 1959.

Sincerely yours,
Sam J. Ervin, Jr.
United States Senate

I WENT DOWN TO THE STORE FOR A HALLOWEEN MASK. THEY WERE ALL OUT OF THEM.

Are You Really Liberal? Check Yourself Here...

Editor’s Note: The article which appears here was submitted to the University of Virginia CAVALIER DAILY and printed therein last week. Believing it to be of interest to Davidson students, whatever their opinions, the DAVIDSONIAN here reproduces the article in its entirety.

You are untrue to the real Liberal spirit unless you adhere to the following tenets:

1. You must believe that the individual is not responsible for his actions, but that “society” (other people) must be held accountable; that he must be rescued by big Government from the results of sloth, indolence, improvidence, poor judgment, as well as misfortune. The poor must be given money to cure the “symptom” of their poverty, rather than be shown how to be self-sustaining, and have their pride and self-respect restored. Encourage them to remain on the dole.

FOR GOVERNMENT

2. You must reverse the time-honored concept of big Government as tending to be corrupt with power, and tyrannical. You must believe that somehow politicians in 1958 have repealed human nature, and our fates and lives can safely be placed in their hands; that they are endowed with superior wisdom concerning spending our tax money; that they (the Government) have money of their own somehow, and are not simply giving us back our tax money in services less a terrific slice for brokerage. You must vote for government dams etc. with attendant waste inefficiency etc., vs. private.

3. You must believe that it is right and proper to take from one and give to another, while the politician is enabled to be re-elected by this process.

FOREIGN AID

4. You must be for “foreign aid” and help build up another 200 or 300 million Chinese, Africans et al., to “aid” by helping in medical services. Especially must you believe in “aid” to socialist governments, to keep them going, and to those either against us outright such as Yugoslavia and Poland, or those leaning against us such as Indonesia and India.

5. You must hold it as a religion that all religious and patriotic organizations are bad, and that all of the “front” organizations are good; you must welcome Paul Robeson, Alger Hiss and Owen Lattimore as speakers, but reject as “controversial” those who are outspoken Anti-Communists and conservatives.

DEBT UNIMPORTANT

6. You must believe that while it is all right for a family or a business to live within its means, it is not at all important for a Government to do so (ala Keynes); that debt is simply something “we owe ourselves.” It depends, of course, upon who the “we” and “ourselves” are.

7. You must believe in the conformity of “non-conformity” and follow the majority in absolutely identical views on everything under the sun, but at the same time you must designate those opposed to this ritualistic Liberalism as “conformists,” and “McCarthyites.” You must hold with those who vow that “academic freedom” is a one-way street, meaning freedom to express radical or even subversive views, but not “controversial” orthodox ones. You must believe that all dissidents are subjects for “mental health” review and possible internment in some mental hospital. You must be a non-conformist in regard to religion, morality, patriotism, and the eternal verities, (regarding them as “relative”) but when it comes to the clichés and shibboleths of the current ritualistic “Liberalism” fad, you must be a complete conformist. (And no nonsense about “relativism” concerning this latter either).

POWER OF LABOR

8. You must believe that the all-powerful labor unions are “good” and that all business is bad; that labor unions should have no checks whatever, but should have the power of life and death over its members; that they have a perfect right to exercise violence, bomb the homes, threaten and injure the families and beat up those members who wish to work. Boys will be boys and this should be dismissed as just harmless excess zeal.

9. You must believe in subsidies to all big voting groups, such as Farmers (7 billion), in order to prop up prices to the consumer, create surpluses to store, etc.; you must believe in rent ceilings in order that no one will wish to risk building, and shortages may be created.

CATER TO ALL

10. You must cater to all “minority” groups (except Indians who do not have many votes), you must frown on newspapers mentioning the nationality or color of a criminal, or comedians telling a dialect joke or coloring his face, and generally conform to the prevailing style, instead of being a non-conformist.

If you fail in so much as one of the above, you will be castigated as being “reactionary,” “Republican,” Fascist, Racist, that you wish people to starve, that you had to be “dragged into the 20th century,” etc., etc., ad nauseum. You must believe in progressive education, that the “Liberals” have repealed the law of compensation, that the law of atrophy of muscles and mind not used fosters class hatred, that the politicians (if liberal) have been cleansed of all envy and hatred of those who excel, and that their judgment in spending your money is infallible.