The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

HOMECOMING ISSUE — VOL. XLVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1959 NUMBER SEVEN

Arrive By 750 Versions Of Public; Bus, Buggy, Broom

Alumni Install McGuire As President Tomorrow

Mr. William B. McGuire, of Charlotte, has been elected president of the Davidson Alumni Association. The two vice-presidents for the coming year will be Dr. Henry T. Bahnson of Baltimore and Dr. J. Randolph Taylor of Washington, D. C. The new officers will be installed by Dr. Martin and the retiring president, Dr. Monroe Gilmour, during the half-time activities of the Homecoming game. The two vice-presidents will be installed “in absentia.”

DUKE POWER CHIEF

The new president, Mr. McGuire, is president of Duke Power Co., and served as Leadership Gift Chairman for the Dana Challenge Program in the Charlotte Area. He graduated from Davidson in 1930. He was elected to membership in Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa, and was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. While at Davidson, McGuire served as president of the senior class; secretary and treasurer of the junior class and on the student council. He was a member of Scabbard and Blade, International Relations Club, Eumenean Literary Society, and Honorary Fraternity Council, in addition to work on the DAVIDSONIAN, yearbook, and debate team.

‘41 GRADUATE

Dr. Bahnson, 1941, a surgeon and associate professor of surgery at Johns Hopkins University, served as student body president, in addition to membership in the D Club, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Phi Beta Kappa. He was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. Dr. Taylor, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa, is at present minister of the Church of the Pilgrims in Washington, D. C. He graduated in 1951, having served as student body vice-president. He is a member of Kappa Sigma.

MAIL BALLOT

These officers were elected by mail ballot, sent by the Alumni Office to the more than 9,000 living Davidson alumni. Candidates were nominated by a group of alumni known as Continued On Page Four)

Gov. Hodges Pays Visit, Gives Serious Advice

“Please young men, have a serious outlook on life. Enjoy your football and your social life, but do not fail to take advantage of this college.” Governor Luther Hodges leaned over the rostrum in Chambers Auditorium and talked “straight” to an intent chapel audience. He spoke as a man concerned about the welfare of those who listened, and his voice was filled with kindness and sincerity. Telling of his recent Russian trip with nine southern governors, he said, “tension and suspense are part of their strategy. Keep that in mind in all your dealings with them.” The American governors were concerned with telling the Russians about our state governments, and learning from the Russian system. “I had always been taught to think of Russians as, well, slobs or just not much,” the Governor said. “One of these days there will be a revolution and it will all be over." Governor Hodges with a wave of the hand said, “neither is true.” “I don't like a thing going on there or how they're doing it, but I am a better citizen for having gone. “I now have a greater appreciation for what we have, but we are taking our institutions of higher learning for granted, and it frightens me,” the Governor said pausing briefly. “These are highly intelligent people. They may seem simple or plain but they know what they are doing,” he said in a somewhat stronger tone. Pausing again until he was sure of undivided attention, the Governor said, “Gentlemen, they have done their homework. They know their history, they know politics, and world affairs. But most important of all, they are dedicated and doing something about it.” The Governor told further of how extremely friendly the people were and that three out of five of them came up through farming. On one leg of their trip the delegation came upon a wrest- Continued On Page Four)

By CHARLES ROSE Davidsonian Feature Editor

An invasion by 750 girls today launched one of the biggest Homecoming celebrations in Davidson history. The neo-Georgian peace of the campus will be further disrupted by the arrival of an additional 750 alumni and their families tomorrow.

Homecoming Schedule

FRIDAY
10:00 Alumni register
2:30 Belk Residents check out
3:00 Girls check in
3:00 Soccer game with U.N.C.
7:30 Harrison Salisbury, Artist Series
9:00-1:00 Formal Dance I.F.C. Homecoming Queen figure
1:00 After dance parties
1:45 A Hayride—will meet behind Union
Union will remain open until 5:00

SATURDAY
11:00 ALL DAY Homecoming
12:30-2:00 Alumni Luncheon
2:30 Game with Wofford—selection of Queen; Exhibit trophy awarded
4:30 (approx.) Concert in Chambers by Tommy Dorsey
Fraternities and Union hold open-house for Alumni
8:00-12:00 Informal Dance
12:00 After dance parties
12:00 Movie “Pete Kelley’s Blues”—Union Ballroom
Union will remain open until 3:00.

Hog Anderson and John Killian heralded the festivities this morning in chapel with an oration, “What it was, was Homecoming” and an interpretive dance. Butler Bennett, for the cheerleaders, and Charlie Benson, co-captain of the football team fanned the spark of school spirit with pep talks. The residents of Belk and first floor Little relinquished their rooms at 2:30 this afternoon to the 521 girls who will be housed there, in the Preyer Infirmary, the Guest House, and a College-owned home. The afternoon's schedule was rounded out by a soccer game with Carolina at 3:00. For the students, the activities will begin in earnest with the formal dance in Johnson Gymnasium at 9:00 tonight which will feature Tommy Dorsey’s band under the direction of Warren Covington.

LOOKING FOR THE SUN

Letters ... A Look Ahead

Converse College
November 1, 1959

Dear Anne,

I thought I had been to all the top drawer schools until I went to Davidson College. Dabney Longstreet (of the upper state Longstreets) (You remember Suzie Longstreet from camp) asked me up. Dabney is president of the school social committee, and of course was mighty busy much of the weekend, but we still had a wonderful time. He was the gracious and obliging gentleman one would expect a Longstreet to be. I wrote home to MaMa and discovered that she knew Dabney’s MaMa well as both of them are chief state M.D.C. committeewomen. It's surprising that I haven't seen the Longstreets at Sea Island, since they also have a house there. Needless to say, I kept running into so many wonderful people that we know (George Breckenridge of Columbia, Mary Lee Pickett of Georgetown, for instance). Did you miss Big Thursday? Oh, my goodness, I did too. Hope to see you in New York in July, he said. Can you please take me? Write back fast.York Thanksgiving, or, if not, surely at the Camden Cup. Ban Scripts ‘n Pranks, Davidson’s version of the campus humor magazine, met the student eye after Peace College drill last Tuesday, December 30, 1959. Varied student comment ranged from “average” to “the best issue I've seen.”

The autumn edition centered around a take-off on the college's courses of instruction found in the Davidson College Catalog. Supplementing this green, paperback insert were various cartoons and pieces of serious literary effort. From student opinion to date, the take-off on the “Courses of Instruction” was met with much approval. Courses and professors alike were subjected to a barrage of sometimes subtle, sometimes evident humor.

St. Mary’s Junior College
October 27, 1959

How’s the second sharpest girl in the world! Wouldn’t be going if you weren’t going to be there. I guarantee you, Sue, that damn monastery isn’t the Carolina Deke house!! But I'm supposed to have a date with you. Hi ya! Just got to be the best dancer I’ve ever seen (if he manages to stay on his feet, Ha! Ha!). Well, keep the pledge one of the few really smooth people there. AIN’T SHARP ENOUGH!!! You know what his father does?? I'll tell you what his father does. He’s president of a trucking company, that’s all! NOTHING BUT MONEY!! Met him at the Pika party during the deb ball. (Love those Pikas!)

Vespers absence will not be double-cuts Sunday night as is customary after a holiday. The Executive Committee took this action to alleviate possible overcrowded conditions.

Oceans of emotions,
Babs

(Continued On Page Four)

Harrison Salisbury, Pulitzer-prize winning correspondent for the New York Times and an expert on the Soviet Union and on juvenile delinquency, spoke in Chambers Auditorium tonight at 7:30. He discussed the topic, “A New Look at the Soviet Challenge,” drawing from a wealth of personal experience as a reporter in Russia.

Alumni and friends of the school will begin to arrive about ten o'clock Saturday morning. Two booths will be provided for registration at the Student Union. A buffet luncheon will be served on the South lawn of the Union for Alumni from 12:30 until 2:00 p.m. After the Homecoming game, each of the twelve social fraternities and the Union will hold open house for Alumni and visitors. There will be no special reunion groups, but Alumni are expected from as far away as Florida and Mississippi.

Saturday morning will be devoted to competition among the social fraternities for the best Homecoming decoration, sponsored by the Interfraternity Council. Awards will include a trophy and $25 for first place, $15 for second, and $10 for third place. The trophy will be presented during the Half-time ceremonies of the game. Judges for the exhibits will be Professors Davidson, Clark, and Capt. Mitchell. The Cheerleaders plan an unusual, dramatic, and humorous entrance prior to the game. The Davidson “Elder,” a new cheerleading institution for Davidson portrayed by Butler Bennet, is scheduled to play a prominent part in the pre-game festivities and during the game. Four cheerleaders from Queens will assist the Davidson group.

The Homecoming football game against Wofford College will begin at 2:30 in Richardson Field. The Davidson R.O.T.C. Honor Guard will perform before the game. At Half-time, the Homecoming Queen will be crowned by President D. Grier Martin, who will also assist outgoing Alumni President Dr. Monroe T. Gilmour in installing the new officers of the Alumni Association. The R.O.T.C. Marching Band and the Lenoir High School Band will perform. The girls will check out of Belk and other College residences by 2:30 Sunday and boys will be allowed to return at 3:00.

“The student body has shown great anticipation and high expectations toward this weekend so half the battle is won,” Interfraternity Council President Ward McKeithen commented. “We certainly anticipate a good Homecoming, not only in the band, but in the area of exhibits and in the Football and Soccer games.”

Fresh Council Plans Busier Parents’ Day

Saturday, November 14, is the date set for the Annual Freshman Parents’ Day. This event is held each year to give the parents a chance to visit the campus at a time when they will be especially welcomed. Dean of Students John C. Bailey has sent out an official letter of invitation to all parents of freshmen, setting forth the purposes of the occasion. In addition, Freshman Advisor Bill Whitesell has expressed his hope that “every freshman will feel a responsibility to invite his parents personally. It is a fine chance for everyone to get acquainted with the school.”

The day will begin at 9:00 a.m. with registration of all visitors at the College Union. Tours of small groups of the guests will be led by selected freshmen. A fifteen and a thirty-minute tour will be available over pre-planned routes. At 11:00 a.m., an assembly will be held in Chambers Auditorium. Dean Bailey will speak on the various problems encountered by many incoming freshmen. The Chapel Choir, which consists mainly of freshmen, will provide a couple of choral numbers.

A luncheon will be served at 12:00 in the old dining hall of Chambers, to which all freshmen and their parents are invited. The cost will be $1.50 per person. The highlight of the afternoon will be the football game between Davidson and Lehigh. Tickets to the University game will be given to the parents, and extra tickets may be purchased at $2.50 each. Immediately after the game, a coffee hour will be held in the dining hall of Chambers. This will give the parents a chance to meet informally their sons’ professors, friends, and certain members of the administration. Faculty members who teach freshman subjects will be available between classes and will attend both the luncheon and the coffee hour. Time will not permit parents to have long conferences with faculty members, but it is hoped that each parent will make an effort to meet his or her son’s professors.

Whitesell again added: “We hope as many parents as possible will come on November 14. The Freshman Council has put a lot of work into making this the best day ever.” Any freshmen interested in securing overnight accommodations for his parents should contact Bill Boyd, East 207. Boyd has a list of motels and hotels in the area and can arrange for students to stay with their parents.