Class Of ’63 Unites F Gentlemen Disabled In Battle For Belk

By BOB BRADFORD
Davidsonian Feature Writer

10:15 p.m. Monday, October 5—a review, a paper and a writ on my docket for the next day—the din of
rioting freshmen in the background as I hovered over my typewriter—suddenly, unexpectedly, even the few remaining eggheads still studying were
forced to stop work as total darkness enveloped the campus. The class of '63 had rioted, a ferocious battle, no
holds barred as freshmen classes have rioted for years, but never with such fervor. Fists and trash cans full of
water were the primary weapons. The darkness, lessened only slightly by car headlights and flashlights, led to general confusion. The
freshmen sought to storm Belk, but the upperclassmen, anticipating their action, stood ready to defend their homes against the invaders.

FISTS AND TRASHCANS

The aggressors closed in and general confusion ensued. The freshmen were continually doused by water issuing from the second, third,
and fourth floors of Belk. Many upperclassmen from other dorms locked horns with freshmen out on the lawn and terrace,
watering down the number of freshmen who eventually did manage to make it to the door. Each time a freshman
fought his way up to the door of Belk and was ready to claim his victory, he was grabbed by
hands within the lobby of the dormitory, taken to one of the first-floor rooms, roughed up a bit by some
of the upper-class bruisers, stripped, and thrown back out into the crowd.

FRESHMAN FEINT

The freshmen dropped back then, and it appeared that they were going to punt when suddenly they rushed one of
the other Belk doors which was held slightly ajar by several of the taunting upperclassmen. Some of the freshmen managed
to get a foot in the door but were quickly ushered out by approaching upperclassmen. Shortly afterwards, the lights (Continued
On Page Six)

Boyd, Gillis Get Burlington Awards

Burlington Industries has awarded two scholarships to Davidson under its Aid-to-Education Program for the 1959-60 school year, according to an
announcement from President D. Grier Martin. Quinton Boyd, junior from Porterdale, Ga., and David Gillis, senior from Mount Olive, N.
C., have been chosen by the college to receive this year’s awards. Each Burlington Scholar receives the scholarship at the
beginning of his junior year and customarily holds it for two years. Gillis was picked last year as a junior
under the same program.

Burlington Industries began its aid-to-education program at Davidson during the 1955-56 college year. This grant is made in recognition of
the fact that student fees at private colleges finance only a portion of educational costs, and that the balance must
come from endowment income or from corporate and individual gifts to the operating budgets of the colleges involved.

Boyd is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, the varsity baseball team, and has been elected by his
fraternity to both the Intramural Athletic Council and the Interfraternity Council. He is majoring in mathematics. Gillis, a physics major,
is business manager of the DAVIDSONIAN, a member of the Honorary Physics Society, Honorary Chemistry Society, Philanthropic Literary Society, and
Gamma Delta social fraternity.

McConnell Donates Funds

By DAVID JORDAN
Davidsonian Assignments Editor

Mr. Charles A. Dana and his accompanying party will be the guests of the college and President and Mrs. D.
Grier Martin for a twenty-four-hour visit on the campus next week. Mr. Dana, who initiated the Dana $400,000 gift last
year, will arrive Tuesday afternoon. The party, which includes Mr. Dana’s daughter Ann, four trustees of the Dana Foundation, Walter
Mann, Charles A. Dana Jr., D. C. Findlay, Judge William S. Hirschberg, and Frank J. Voss, director of public relations
for the Dana Corporation, will be at Davidson overnight, departing for New York early Wednesday afternoon. The local visit is
part of a tour the party has been making of a number of schools, which the Dana Foundation has aided
with gifts. They will be coming here by air from the Berry Schools in Georgia.

SPECIAL CHAPEL

A special chapel will be held on Wednesday for the honored guests. At that time, Dr. Martin will officially report
to Mr. Dana that the college has raised $708,438 in answer to his $400,000. The Dana Challenge Program was to
cover construction costs for two new campus buildings, the Dana Science Laboratories and the new dormitory. Mr. Dana and the
trustees will tour the new buildings to inspect the progress of construction. Dr. Martin will officially conduct the inspection with
Robert Currie and Grover Meetze.

A number of special conferences and planning sessions have also been scheduled. The college faculty and trustees and other leaders
who have been participants in the Challenge Program will hold meetings with the guests.

DANA'S THIRD VISIT

This will be Mr. Dana's third visit to Davidson this year. He was a guest of the college on February
18, for the spring meeting of the Board of Trustees, and he also attended the inauguration of Mr. Martin on
April 22. He has been on the campus...

(Editor’s note: This article concludes a series on admissions. See page two for editorial recommendations.)

White Talks Mechanics Of College Admissions

By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“The procedure of admissions is a changing thing,” said Assistant Dean H. Edmunds White in a DAVIDSONIAN interview last week.
“Every year we are striving to improve the mechanics of the process.”

“Last year the procedure was as follows:

A folder was prepared on every applicant. This folder included such material as the boy’s application, his high school transcript,
character references, teacher recommendations, College Board scores, etc.

Mr. Hengeveld, using a formula, figures out a predicted average that the prospective student should make in his four years
at Davidson. Incidentally, the results of this formula have shown that it is highly accurate within a certain range.

Using the results of the formula, we place the candidate for admission in one of three classes: a high group,
a middle group, or a low group.

Mr. Hengeveld then examines personally the complete record of all the boys in the top group; their recommendations, extracurricular activities,
athletics, church work, and so forth.

If he is satisfied that the boy will be an asset to Davidson and should be admitted, he sends the
folder to me. If I am satisfied, the boy is admitted. This was not our idea, but was recommended by
the committee to expedite the process.

The boys in the lowest group are automatically dropped unless they have some connection with the college. Legacies, for instance,
are elevated to the middle group for further consideration by the admissions committee.

As one can see, it is in this large middle group that the going gets tough. Here all the facts
of a boy’s make-up are weighed, making use of all the material in the folder. From this process a score
is obtained on every boy. This score, along with the formula rating, determines whether a boy in the middle group
will be admitted or not.

Some of us felt that the formula was carrying too much weight, so we doubled the weight of the committee’s
rating. Last year the rating of the committee weighed 55%, the formula, 45%.

There were a number of cases brought up last year that, we decided, could not be adequately covered by the
formula. These included, for example, some prep school boys, and some boys from very small high schools.

Since we felt that these boys were not getting a fair deal by the regular system, we decided on them
in other ways. These new methods were somewhat arbitrary, sometimes consisting of a special rating that we believed more accurate.

The number handled by these special methods was small, probably between five and ten, but these special methods are a
recognition that the regular formula cannot handle all cases.”For brief periods on several Trustee Action: “It is not in the
best interest of the college to admit Negro students.” With these words, President Martin summed up, in chapel yesterday, the
Trustees’ present position concerning admissions of Negroes to Davidson. Concerning this matter, “It is perhaps unnecessary for me to say
to you that there is a wide difference of opinion on this matter among members of the Davidson family... The
problems will be solved with wisdom and understanding, and we will not be ashamed.”

Martin then went on to elaborate on chapel and vesper conduct, and the establishment of the Joseph Moore McConnell Scholarship
Program, which will replace the Baker Scholarships that were terminated in April of 1958. Both he and Miss Dana were
present for the groundbreaking exercises for the new science building last fall. He also made mention of the recent student
riot and expressed hope that the student government would take measures to prevent further occurrences of such outbreaks.

When questioned on whether he thought an interview was necessary, White said, “I don't think that the interview is absolutely
necessary, since we do not have the staff to do this sort of thing, or the facilities for training alumni
to do the job correctly. If it were practical to do this, it would be fine. Also, we must remember
that when we receive a recommendation, we also have to evaluate the individual making the recommendation. I am not sure
that mine or anyone's recommendation is completely trustworthy in forming a correct opinion on an individual. I recall that one
applicant who had a B-plus record was (Continued On Page Six).

Guest House. Dana Science Laboratories and the new dormitory, both of which were made possible by the Dana Challenge Program.
“At the meeting of the Trustees last February, the question was considered and discussed at length, and a decision was
made that at this time it is not in the best interest... Since this was not a change in the
actual policy of the college, it was the opinion of the majority of the Trustees that no announcement of this
action should be made. This statement is being made to you now because of a great many rumors.

Students could not be admitted unless an action was taken by the Trustees to this effect. The president then devoted
the remainder of his talk to conduct at required religious services. “On the whole, such conduct has been good, but
there were problems that exist. These services are not peripheral exercises, not incidental, but parts of an integrated philosophy of
education. I doubt seriously if many of you realize the impression that is frequently made on people who attend these
services,” he said. “Many refuse to return. It is my hope that you will give serious thought to what you
as an individual should do to improve this situation.”

For New Scholarship Plan: Program Establishes Ten $1,400 Grants

The College this week announced the establishment of the new Joseph Moore McConnell Scholarship Program, which is designed to provide
up to ten four-year scholarships each year varying in amounts of aid up to $1,400. The program honors the memory
of Dr. Joseph Moore McConnell, who was a Davidson faculty member for thirty-two years. From 1928 until his death in
1935, Dr. McConnell served as Dean of the Faculty and was known widely as a distinguished educator, civic leader, and
churchman.

PERMANENT BASIS

Funds to finance the Joseph Moore McConnell Scholarships on a permanent basis have been provided by Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
H. McConnell of New York City. Mr. McConnell, who is establishing the program in his father’s name, graduated from Davidson
in 1927. The amounts of the McConnell Scholarship stipends will depend on the financial need of the individuals selected. Detailed
announcements will be released shortly regarding the procedure whereby high school seniors may become candidates for the 1960-61 awards under
the new program.

As in the case of the George F. Baker Scholarship Program, which was financed at Davidson by the George F.
Baker Trust from 1948 to 1957, the McConnell Scholars will be selected “on the basis of high qualities of potential
leadership, superior ability, strength of character, and well-rounded personality.”

WELL-ROUNDED

In general, the well-rounded applicant with a broad range of abilities and interests will be better qualified for the program
than a student with an excellent scholastic record alone, President Martin explained. In commenting on the new program in chapel
Thursday, Dr. Martin spoke of his personal friendship as a student and Davidson staff member with Dr. McConnell. “Dr. McConnell
typified in every phase of his life, both public and private, the qualities of alert, unselfish leadership, high personal competence,
and warm humanity which are the very traits we at Davidson are eager to identify and encourage not only in
the forthcoming generations of McConnell scholars but in every student who chooses to attend this college.”

DAVIDSON GRADUATE

Dr. McConnell himself was a graduate of Davidson. He received a Ph.D. degree from the University of Virginia. He was
Moderator of the 1933 North Carolina Synod of the Presbyterian Church and served as president of the North Carolina Literary
and Historical Society. Dr. McConnell was married to Eliza Howard Riggs. They had three sons, all of whom graduated from
Davidson. In addition to Joseph, they were E. Riggs McConnell, class of 1929, and John D. McConnell, '32.

W.F. Reschedules Jewish Program

The Davidson Westminster Fellowship will meet jointly with the Westminster Fellowship from Catawba College this Sunday at 6:15 p.m. in
the Student Lounge of the campus church for a discussion on “The Meaning of Lostness.” Originally scheduled for this evening
was a discussion on Judaism to be led by a Jewish rabbi. This program will be held at a later
date, most probably on November 4th. This will be the second of a series of four programs on “Powerful Beliefs”
being presented by the Fellowship. Last Wednesday night, Dr. Oetgen, a member of the faculty of Belmont Abbey College, led
a discussion on Roman Catholicism. Oetgen recently received his doctoral degree at the University of North Carolina. The other “Powerful
Belief” topics will be Unitarianism and Presbyterianism. Dr. Sidney Freeman, minister of the Unitarian Church of Charlotte, has been secured
for the meeting on Unitarianism scheduled for October 21st at 4 p.m. The program on Presbyterianism is presently scheduled for
November 11.

Henry Shue, W.F. vice-president, reported that the W.F. is also carrying on two weekly study groups, one on “A Christian
Philosophy of Higher Education” and the other on “The Mission of the Church on the Strategic Frontiers of the World.”
