Spring Frolics Issue

VOL. XLVI

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1959

Poll On Girls’ Schools (See Page Two)

NUMBER 26

Skirts Arrive As Gowns Depart; Mood Shifts From Pomp To Pop

Ward McKeithen To Preside Over 1959-60 Interfraternity Council

Davidson’s 1959-60 Interfraternity Council will be headed by Ward McKeithen, a rising senior and a member of Beta Theta Pi
social fraternity. McKeithen was elected president.

By BOB MOORE
Davidsonian Managing Editor

IFC completed plans for the Spring Frolics dance weekend. In a DAVIDSONIAN press conference following the meeting, McKeithen stated, “I
am definitely in favor of a preferential bidding system, for I feel it will strengthen the Davidson College fraternity system.”

RUSH WEEK LOOPHOLES

Regarding Rush Week, McKeithen continued, “I believe the number of rush parties is sufficient and Rush Week should continue to
begin at the end of Orientation Week. There are loopholes in the rush system as it now stands, but a
more comprehensive orientation of Rush Chairmen will solve many of the problems.”

GREEK WEEK TROPHY

When questioned about the need for making a more effective Greek Week, McKeithen replied, “There is a great deal of
work to be done in regard to Greek Week. A more definite plan toward Greek Week is necessary and more
pledge class activities should be provided. A greater incentive can be provided through the presentation of a trophy to the
fraternity having the best Greek Week.”

Concerning dance weekends for the coming year, McKeithen stated, “I feel a big name band in itself does not merit
the expenses. I would prefer to have a smaller name band and a vocal group, such as the combination of
Billy May and the Four Freshmen for Mid-Winters. I believe Davidson fraternities are looking for vocal groups.”

Playwright Priest Directs “Duchess”

The Davidson Fine Arts Festival will present a reading of John Webster’s Baroque tragedy, “The Duchess of Malfi” at 8:15,
April 27 in the College Union Ballroom. Father C. Ward Courtney will direct the production which is presented with the
express purpose of electing a chairman. This body will exercise the judiciary power concerning all honor offenses during the coming
school year.

The Honor Court members are elected by the student body. There are six members from the senior class; four from
the junior class; and two from the sophomore class.

Seniors for next year's court are Bobby Livingston, John Huie, George Hart, Dabney Stuart, Larry McNeill, and Larry Baggett. Juniors
are Jerry Cole, Scott Lacy, Ed Kizer, and Jim Anderson. Sophomores are David Gilmour and Harrison Wellford.

Before the election of officers for the coming year, the 1958-59 IFC met in the Blue Room of the College
Union.

Woody Morcock of Sigma Chi was elected secretary and Bud Hunter of Kappa Alpha was elected treasurer.

Kuykendall Installs New Student Officers

In chapel last Tuesday morning, outgoing student body president John Kuykendall installed Dee Greene as new student body president and
Bobby Livingston as newly elected Honor Court Chairman.

Prior to the installation ceremony, Kuykendall gave a speech expressing his appreciation to the student body and to the Student
Council for their support as well as opposition during the past school year.

After his own installation, Greene then administered the oath of office to the members of next year's Student Council and
to next year's Honor Court. Bobby Livingston, runner-up in this year’s student body presidential elections, was selected by acclamation as
Chairman of the newly formed Honor Court. The twelve-member body met in the Student Union last Monday evening at 10:00
p.m.

Many dormitory violations can be removed by regulating the arrival date of upperclassmen.

CONCERTS FAVORED

“I am definitely in favor of having an IFC-sponsored concert like the one given by the Kingston Trio this year,”
McKeithen replied when questioned about the recent success of the Kingston Trio concert. “I am also definitely looking for ways
to work with the YMCA. I feel the IFC can help the YMCA in the promotion of fraternity retreats.” McKeithen
concluded, “The primary function of the IFC will be to coordinate the fraternities in such standing activities as Rush Week,
Greek Week, and social functions.”

Team 'Gul-brat'd' On Television Quiz

The Davidson College Quiz Bowl team was defeated on the General Electric-sponsored television show last Sunday by the University of
Minnesota. The final score of the quiz session was 155-90.

The members of the Davidson team, including Bob Livingston, Charles Chastain, Frank Nye, and Laurens Walker, along with team coach
Paul Marrotte and team alternate Montey Bracey arrived in Minneapolis at 4:00 Saturday afternoon, where they were met by representatives
of the University of Minnesota and General Electric. After checking in at the Hotel Pick-Nicollet they were the dinner guests
of GE, where they met the staff and management of the program.

The team went out to the University campus at 11:00 Sunday morning, and began a series of rehearsals for the
show. It went through three practice quiz sessions under actual conditions before the 4:00 Minneapolis “on-the-air” time.

The team returned to Charlotte Monday evening at 7:30. Team member Laurens Walker said, “Speaking for the team, I want
to thank everyone for their interest, both before and after the show, and I'd like to express our appreciation for
the many letters and telegrams we received.

“Of course we were sorry to have lost, but if we were to do it all over again, we wouldn't
change a bit of the preparation. We feel that we were prepared for the contest; the coaching and help we
got from members of the faculty, and especially Dr. Marrotte, was more than enough for the program. We just didn’t
have the breaks.”

Kernan, Peters, Daniel Begin Class Day Plans

The Senior Class on April 16-17 elected Tom Kernan Valedictorian; Red Ferguson, Salutatorian; Paul Biggers, Historian; and Bob Cole, Orator
for their annual Class Day exercises. The group will present a satirical program early Saturday afternoon, May 30 in Chambers
Auditorium.

The four speakers elected and a committee

Duke And Reign For SadPy ... informality Festivities

An entertainment-packed schedule has brought a flood of dates and guests to Davidson for the weekend.

The Spring Frolics’ attractions include the “D Club Foolies,” a semi-formal dance, afternoon concert, and informal dance. Duke Ellington’s sixteen-piece
orchestra is providing music for the dances and concert under the Duke's baton.

After Belk residents had signed for rooms on Friday, only eight spaces were left for the student body in general.
Handling the rooming for the IFC John Warlick noted that the Guest House was filled at that early date and
the majority of other accommodations had been reserved earlier.

NOT TYPICAL WEEKEND

Commenting on the crowd drawn by the dance weekend, IFC President Vernon Anderson exclaimed: “This is to be more than
a typical weekend! The Ellington group was picked especially to please the students. They are among the best in the
country and the IFC hopes that the students will be pleased.

In tribute to new college president Dr. Grier Martin and Mrs. Martin at the student program last Tuesday night, Student
Body President John Kuykendall and Senior Class President Roy Gilbert presented a congratulatory card signed by all the members of
the student body.

“The IFC has tried to have variety in this year’s dances and still satisfy the student. Duke Ellington’s band is
regarded as one of the best in the South.Composed of Tom Kernan, Sam Peters, and Carter Daniel, the committee will
be in charge of the organization of the presentation. Each speaker will be responsible for the formulation of his own
speech, and the committee will be in charge of the format. Class Day is a chapel program which the Senior
Class is allowed to conduct in any way it sees fit. Usually, it is a caricature of some of the
events of the class's four years at Davidson, the faculty and classes, or other aspects of college life. According to
Roy Gilbert, Senior Class President, “This should be a really good year. We have some excellent speakers and writers to
carry it off well.”

Inauguration Complete; Martin Now Thirteenth President

Dr. David Grier Martin became the thirteenth President of Davidson College in inauguration ceremonies held Wednesday afternoon. The oath of
office was administered by Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President of Columbia Theological Seminary and of Davidson’s Board of Trustees. He
called the occasion “a great day in the history of Davidson College.”

OHIOAN’S ADDRESS

Dr. Howard F. Lowry, President of the College of Wooster in Ohio, delivered the inaugural address. He spoke on “Some
Things to Some Men,” a talk addressing the needs of a small college. “The liberal arts college,” he said, “should
not try to be all things to all men, but only some things to some men. Of course, there are
always those who want to make the small college bigger so all people will have the opportunity to go to
a small college. The small college can give the liberal education that can clarify, enrich, and ennoble the life of
a man. It can contribute loyalties, perspectives, and power. The liberal arts education can save us from the tyranny of
floating concepts and sterile clichés that, detached from life and history, can become our masters.”

DEFINES CHURCH SCHOOL

Dr. Lowry also gave his definition of the duties of a church school. “The church school does not have a
program,” he said, “it is one. It is too easy for a school to dilute the church’s purpose. However, a
college is a place of learning. It should furnish ministers to the church who have read other books besides the
Bible.”

Dr. John R. Cunningham, in presenting Dr. Martin for inauguration, called him a “man who has the confidence and friendship
of all” and one “to whom Davidson College owes an inexpressible debt of gratitude.”

NEED OF COLLEGE

After taking the oath of office, Dr. Martin made a brief acceptance speech in which he pledged all of his
abilities to the bettering of the college. He stressed the need of “a faculty of dynamic Christian scholars... students of
good mental capacity... a curriculum that will hold student interest... and an environment conducive to learning.” Dr. Martin then conferred
the honorary degree of Doctor of Literature on Dr. Lowry.

Act I. (The dining room of the Zeta Deke fraternity house. Empty tables heaped with greasy bowls, used napkins, and
dirty aluminumware. Two figures, a tall gaunt man wearing dark glasses and a short, fuzzy-cheeked boy, sit at one of
the tables. The gaunt man’s dress and every movement are dedicated to casualness. His manner is that of one who
feels obviously superior. The boy's dress imitates that of his idol, but his mannerisms are those of a worshipper, not
of one who is worshipped. As befits their relationship, the gaunt man has been elected Exalted Grand Procurator of the
Zeta Deke fraternity, Alpha chapter. The round-faced boy is a mere pledge. Pledge slurps up the last spoonful of melted
ice cream, chases it with a gulp of milk, wipes his mouth, and drops the worn napkin into an empty
glass. The Grand Procurator leans back languidly and lights a cigarette with a large, monogrammed lighter, exhaling a line of
grey smoke.)

Procurator: Got a date for Spring Frolics?

Pledge: Naw. I did, but she handed me some jag about having to study, so I told her to forget
it. Guess I'll go home. Need to do some things there anyway.

Procurator: (a look of sudden relief betrays his real concern) You can't miss this one. It's going to be the
greatest smash ever. (pauses, as if thinking) Maybe I can help you. There's this sharp little number from home. Goes
to Sweetlins. Real party girl. And personality plus! (indicates scope and magnitude of personality with hourglass motion of hand). She's
probably dated up, but I might be able to work something out for you. Wanna try it?

Pledge: (overcome with ecstasy and religious fervor) It sounds too good to be true. Do you really think you could
get her to come? (this is a silly question) Would you try? Come on. I'll pay for the call. (They
walk over to the house phone. The Procurator dials the operator.)

Procurator: Long Distance? I'm speaking from TW 2-2289. I'm calling Richmond, Virginia, Sweetlins College. I want to speak with Miss
Catherine Elizabeth Scropes. And, oh, I want this call charged to Mr. Bill Gunch. (pause) Hello, Liz? Well, how's it
with the sharpest girl at Sweetlins? Yeah, this is me. Look, remember you said something about coming down here for
a weekend? Well, I finally found a man sharp enough for you. He’s a brother of mine—Zeta Deke, you know—and
plenty sharp. Drives a white Healey. I know you’ve probably made plans for the weekend, but cancel them. We're having
Spring Frolics this weekend, and I guarantee you it's going to be really terrific. Duke Ellington, plus the parties after.
So why don’t you pack your shortie pajamas and come on down for the good times? You will? That's my
party girl. Knew you wouldn’t let the Old Man down. Look, your date’s name is Bill Gunch. Write him and
let him know when to expect you. He’ll write you about what to bring and so on. I've got your
address. (Operator breaks in. “Sir, your three minutes are up. Signal when through.") Goodbye, Liz. (turns to Pledge, his face
radiant with the holiness of a good Samaritan) Well fellow, you got a date; believe me, you GOT a date.

ACT I. (Bill had met Catherine at the airport late Friday afternoon, alone. When he first saw her, he was
impressed with her figure, of which she was obviously proud.)

(Continued On Page Four)
