The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1959

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Michigan: Welfare State In Trouble

Michigan, the epitome of social welfare states, is in financial trouble again—this time to the tune of 73 million dollars worth of bills due it cannot pay. Last spring liberal Governor G. Mennen Williams, intimate of United Auto Workers’ boss Walter Reuther, was forced to personally appeal to the corporations he had often fought for funds to pay state officials’ salaries. General Motors advanced thirteen million dollars. The University of Michigan and Michigan State University were operating on loans against students’ fees; and bankers were warning that no more loans were forthcoming. During all of this checks went out regularly to those on relief—and welfare rolls continued to swell. Just in time to avoid bankruptcy a tax plan was adopted which featured a one per cent “use” tax, a device to circumvent a constitutional limit of three per cent sales tax. Now that the state supreme court has thrown out the “use” tax on the grounds that it is a subterfuge, Governor Williams has called an emergency meeting of legislative leaders to find a stopgap program to tide the state over. Temporary measures under consideration include liquidating the investments in the state’s veterans' fund—the only ready reserve not already tapped. An increase in business activities tax is also under consideration. The latter suggestion points to another growing difficulty: that of attracting and keeping industry in the state. Business leaders are all too well aware of an “attitude of hostility” which has caused many of them to move operations, which in turn cuts revenues and job opportunities while swelling already too full relief rolls.

Michigan’s problem is a simple one: revenues haven’t kept up with spending. Yet, this year’s state budget? Twenty million dollars larger than the previous budget—along with 73 million in bills due which they cannot pay. Michigan—the “give-away” state.

College Beneficiary If Cuts Changed

THE DAVIDSONIAN’S reopening of the cut system issue has caused rumbles on the campus. We are glad to hear the rumbling. Comments and opinions have varied from one extreme to the other. Some agree with us, some disagree. Others express surprise that such definite steps have been taken toward answering the problem, instead of the usual dilly-dallying around that characterizes so much of the discussions on this campus. We think all this discussion is fine. We are glad to hear students and faculty weighing the pros and cons of the matter. We believe that any such exchange of ideas is a healthy situation. But we did not stir up this “sleeping dog" just to provoke discussion and, after all the ideas for and against have been presented, to let the whole matter die. We brought up this problem in the hope of rectifying a situation that we believe is harmful to the life of the college community. To us, compulsory attendance concerning classes seems apart from the philosophy that is the basis for a liberal arts institution. Such an institution should exist for the purpose of providing a foundation for a mature, well-rounded life. We feel that a system that limits personal decisions hinders the attainment of this goal. The DAVIDSONIAN does not plan to let this issue die on the vine. We expect some action to be taken by the faculty and administration concerning this problem. We feel that if our position is upheld and the rules changed, Davidson College will be the beneficiary.

J.H.

THE ICONOCLAST

ICONOCLAST: One who attacks cherished beliefs as shams.

* * * * *

We welcome a new publication to campus. The ICONOCLAST, edited by Peter Sterling, John Stone and Clint Schaum, appeared to the few lucky enough to get an issue this week. It’s their name that we accept with some reservations, and their basic premise that Davidson is BIG sick. The only way the ICONOCLAST can be of any worth is to prove itself a positive factor in making the College a better one. To merely attack cherished beliefs is easy, and they will find much support in their efforts. Many—too many—are ready to attack without provocation or a basic knowledge of relevant facts any institution. They will rant, rave and curse with amazing prolixity only to arrive right back where they started with no progress having been made toward a solution. The ICONOCLAST must use its new sounding board not only to tear down, but also to build up. Merely tearing down leaves one with nothing; the act of rebuilding is equally as important. And there’s no use in rebuilding if the new structure isn’t a superior one. Our only advice to the editors: don’t get so enthused over that big name that you begin to move, and make shams, without a purpose and aim. Good luck.

Les Comediens

Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, professor of History, Director of the Library and advocate-extraordinaire of things Southern is quoted in the November 7 issue of the Saturday Review. Appearing with Cleveland Amory, well-known author, on a panel at Coker College on the topic of humor in American Literature, Dr. Davidson is quoted as listing among his favorite humorists H. L. Mencken, Dorothy Parker and “that person who wrote that ‘all men are created equal.’” And may we nominate as other outstanding humorists all those who attempt daily to perpetuate this incongruity.

The Right To Work

“I think the right to work in our country is just as sacred as the right to a jury trial. I don't believe any organization in our country should be vested with the right and power to say to an American, ‘You shall not work unless you join my organization.’”

—Senator Frank Lausche

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ___ Ed Armfield

ASSISTANT EDITOR ___ Dick Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER ___ Dave Gillis

Associate Editor ___ Jim Hamilton

Editorial Assistant ___ Bob Livingston

Managing Editors ___ Ervin Duggan, Bob Moore

Sports Editor ___ B. Millner

News Editor ___ Tom Calvin

Feature Editor ___ Charles Rose

Entered as Second Class Matter at the P. Assignments Editor ___ David Jordan

Copy Editor ___ Dan Clemmer

Cartoonists ___ Redding Starling

Advertising Manager ___ Charlie Rewe

Circulation Mgr. ___ Albert McClure, Jr.

Asst. Business Manager ___ Greg Grana

Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1878.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Students Voice Ire And Inspiration In Three Letters

Larry Smith

Dear Editor:

Sparkle, sparkle, little twink; How I wonder what you think: a Zoroastrian mystic.

In your recent heart to heart talk during Chapel hour, Mr. Armfield, you asked the student body to: 1. just imagine your date dancing with a colored boy, and 2. just think what could happen! Well, I've been imagining and I’ve been thinking, and I would just like to share my thoughts with you on this matter, with no malice—just heart to heart:

First, I noticed the courageous editorial “WE” carries over in your expression even when you are speaking as an individual. But then as you so helpfully told us, you were speaking for “the majority of the Davidson students.” I guess I just wasn’t in on your census of opinions, but I would say from the tired response of the students that day, you may have been misinformed. I sincerely hope so!

Secondly, for me, the most disappointing remark you made was quite apart from your clever summary of all the antique abortions on the race question. I am referring to the statement that liberals on campus argue their views “merely for intellectual honesty.” This is the most bourgeois, philistine comment I have ever heard—supposedly from one of the cream of the intelligentsia. If intellectual honesty is to be sneered at here, Negro intellectuals should be better off somewhere else: they would suffocate before the Klan ever got them.

Finally, and back to the original point, I wonder, Mr. Armfield, has it never occurred to you that Negroes, if admitted to Davidson, might voluntarily decline from the social web here, just as some, whose skin is as white as yours have done—in disgust? Also I wonder that we should be any more worried about a sharp date dancing with a Negro boy than with a loyal, super-cool fraternity brother. Aren’t people generally attracted to beauty features of their own race? Do you even suppose that a girl who would find you charming would find a handsome Colored boy more so? With integration do you think intelligent southern white girls would suddenly get the ‘hots’ for shiny black skin, super-curly hair, and flat noses with flared nostrils? Or perhaps you imagine our women would offer themselves sacrificially as mothers of the all-new race of ‘integration gray.’ Do you think strong Black boys admitted here, and on a dance weekend, shockingly exposed to the erotic warmth of our virgin white girls, would just go wild and start raping our fair young wenches on the spot? Certainly, certainly not! At best this scene represents an interesting hypothetical sociological experiment—at worst, the weak gassing echoes of an unthinking generation.Twankle, twankle little twunk; Now I think you haven't thunk: . . . a Zoroastrian ‘Crusader’. Larry H. Smith

Cheerleaders

Dear Editor:

Every week those of us at Davidson who read and who may be interested in the progress or decline of the varsity athletic teams are subjected to the column and byline (complete with smiling photograph) of Mr. B. Miliner. This erudite young seer, instead of reporting the news has a disgusting tendency to prophesy and “crystal ball” us to death. Sometimes this proves interesting and undoubtedly he spends a lot of time consulting his oracle. But let us not hear him again, lay the lash of his criticism on others who may waste their time, but nevertheless are attempting to do a job.

“Inadequate Cheerleaders”
Don Follmer
Pete Wyrick
Charles Rowe
Tommy Colvin

Dear Editor:

I would like to applaud the appearance of ICONOCLAST, Davidson’s voice of dissent. We have long needed a medium through which students (and I hope faculty) can forcefully state their disapproval of various aspects of our college existence. The DAVIDSONIAN has not in the past been a very satisfactory outlet for such statements. We have now progressed beyond the point of verbal criticism; we find forthcoming printed criticism. If one thinks, as I do, that Davidson is not an educational paradise, one will certainly feel that this is a step in the right direction.

I think that it is important to realize that the appearance of this opinion sheet is not the sole star on the horizon. Rather, ICONOCLAST is just one indication of a current trend in attitude. The manner in which the Book-of-the-Semester Program was received is another indication of this trend. Even the IFC Homecoming chapel should be considered a part of the current tendency toward producing a lively campus. Certainly the campaign (perhaps the first real campaign here in years) for a liberalized cut system now being conducted by the DAVIDSONIAN is also indicative of the present trend.

We are undoubtedly moving toward a more lively and enlightened atmosphere. However, we need more than atmosphere; we also need action. The climate among students is such that we can perhaps help the college make a few steps forward by some positive actions. Let’s seize our opportunity.

Tommy Colvin

College Library Figures Show Davidson Is Lacking
By DAVID JORDAN

According to the latest statistics released by the Association of College and Research Libraries, the Davidson College library is classified in Group II. This division denotes those libraries which have a budget of over $43,000. Prior to 1957-58, Davidson was in Group III. “Before, we were classified with Agnes Scott, Hollins, Randolph-Macon and Sweetbriar. Now we are in a group with Amherst, Bowdoin, Dickinson, Swarthmore, Oberlin, Wesleyan and Williams,” reported Library Director Dr. Chalmers Davidson this week. “Thus we are now compared with a group of colleges which support their libraries much more generously.”

STILL GROUP III

However, a study of ACRL figures reveals that Davidson does not compare favorably with these well-known schools of Group II. Moreover, it does not even compare very favorably with schools recognized to be much lower in scholastic standing. In respect to book stock, Davidson is still a Group III library. Davidson is embarrassingly below the median in three of the four main fields covered by the statistics—book stock, volumes added yearly, and periodicals. Only in the number of newspapers it receives is Davidson well represented, and its superiority here is out of proportion with other figures. The local library has 73,491 volumes, adds approximately 4,046 annually, and subscribes to 38 newspapers and 390 periodicals (this has been increased to 438 since the ACRL study was made).

“LOW ON STOCK”

“We resent having the efficiency of this library calculated by the number of volumes, but yet we know 73,000 volumes is not enough. We are low on book stock,” Davidson said. “For a library like ours, 100,000 is a must!” In the ACRL study for Group II, which included 99 schools, only twelve had fewer volumes, and with the exception of three small schools, Davidson has only a slight edge over these. Examining those schools with which Davidson usually compares herself, the following eye-opening conclusions may be drawn: Amherst has over four times as many volumes (313,022); Bowdoin, over three times (249,564); Oberlin, over seven times (538,135); Swarthmore, about three times (209,301); Wesleyan, about six times (439,090); and Williams, over three times (249,747).

At the present rate of addition, it will be at least 1965 before the library can attain the goal of 100,000, a number judged by the library staff as the necessary minimum. Dependent on the extent of weeding during that period, it could take considerably longer. “Periodically, the faculty weeds the stocks to remove dead weight, books no longer currently relevant and to remove excess copies of books once in demand for reserve,” Davidson explained. “We could have well over 100,000 volumes in a month’s time, if we eliminated weeding and took all the books we could get free. However, we feel that the test of a good library is not in the number of books per se.” However, it should not be inferred that other top quality schools do not weed their stocks just as consistently as Davidson.

The budget is only $22,232, which means we are steadily falling behind these other schools even more. A portion of that figure includes the yearly cleaning and repairing of all volumes. Despite the alarming figures the library administration finds some consolation in the improvement in recent years, but realizes this improvement must continue and be increased. In 1936 the fund for books and magazines was $2,500; last year it was $20,000.

THREE PART FORMULA

This $20,000 is apportioned to each of the departments for the purchase of books in its subject. The library committee determines the amount by a three-part formula which takes into consideration: 1) number of students per department; 2) circulation per department; 3) cost of average book per department. The amounts are readjusted about every five years. Except in the case of the science department, which has some outside funds of its own, this is the sole source of money for each department. The library has two other separate funds which are used to supplement departmental orders.

FACULTY RESPONSIBLE

“Theoretically the committee is responsible for approving all books. That authority exists, but the responsibility for which books are ordered is still with the department,” Davidson commented. “We must assume that each department is capable of ordering what it needs.” A department may include periodicals in its order, if they are not listed in Readers Guide or International Index. Otherwise, the library orders those which it feels are necessary. In the ACRL ratings, only four schools receive a fewer number of periodicals. Dr. Davidson admits that we look very bad in that light. Only eight schools can claim more newspapers than the Davidson library. This is due to the local policy of subscribing to the newspapers of every town or county which has at least ten students here.

“Since we are not an institution which awards research degrees, we only attempt to build up a library adequate for honors students. However, we still need a good bit more to meet the demands of the honors work,” Davidson said. “We now have a first rate physical plant and a well-trained, but small, staff. For the first time, we have almost everything needed as regards the actual facilities.” However, the most pressing need as seen by the library staff, is not an increase in the quality and quantity of books and periodicals, but rather the addition of a reserve reading room on the second floor and an extra staff member to operate it. This room would require a number of alterations to the present facilities.