PAGE TWO

Meet Mrs. Martin: Busy And Talented First Lady

Who's the proudest lady in the land? Today it may well be Davidson’s First Lady, a Georgia girl who never
expected her husband to be a college president. Mrs. D. Grier Martin’s reaction to her husband’s election last spring was
“utter amazement,” she said yesterday. “I guess I thought that I was the only one who appreciated him!” she told
the DAVIDSONIAN. But on the eve of Dr. Martin’s inauguration as the thirteenth president of Davidson College, Mrs. Martin knew
that others shared her appreciation. She had just returned from last night's community-wide picnic in honor of the Martins. And
tomorrow they'll all be here.” Relaxing in the living room of the Martin home, Mrs. Martin smiled often as she
talked about her husband and children.

ROMANCE

How did she meet Dr. Martin? “I had a date with his roommate at Emory University where he was doing
graduate work. I was interested in meeting him because I had heard about him from his roommate and from mine,
too. She had had a blind date with him the previous summer and had been impressed. But I didn’t have
a date with him until nearly two years later.” The first date was at Davidson College. Mr. Martin had come
to the college as alumni secretary, and the future Mrs. Martin, fresh from dramatic study in New York, was in
Davidson to produce a local-talent musical sponsored by a Methodist youth group.

THE FAMILY

The Martins have three children: Mike, 22, an honor graduate of Davidson last year, is now doing graduate work at
Duke University; D. G., 18, a Davidson freshman, will serve as next year's student body secretary-treasurer; daughter Mimy, 12, returned
in the fall from a four-month visit in France; she is a junior-high student in the Davidson school. “Just get
me started,” said Mrs. Martin, “and I can talk forever about my children.” And well she might. Both Mike and
D. G. served as student body president at North Mecklenburg High School; both have been superior students throughout their school
years. And young Mimy returned from her stay in France with a fluency in French which amazes even the professors.
All the family are athletes. Mrs. Martin is a golfer and avid basketball fan. She played high school basketball and
excelled in tennis and swimming. At Valdosta State College, where she received her degree in English, she was an athletic
council president for two years. Dr. Martin was a high school basketball and football star and a Davidson standout in
basketball and track. The two boys were basketball captains in high school (D. G. also served as captain of the
tennis and football teams).

HOBBIES

What are the family hobbies? Well, of course the whole family loves basketball. And all are music lovers (Dr. Martin
prefers classical music, says his wife, but she is “very undiscriminating. I like everything but hillbilly and rock ‘n’ roll.”)
Mrs. Martin is a talented cook and loves to entertain and “try new dishes.” Seafood and salads are her favorites,
and the new president loves roast beef and desserts. Do they like to read? The first lady laughed. “Oh, yes.
My family saw that I read everything when I was a girl, and I’ve never gotten over it. I like
Jane Austen, Tolstoy and some of the people who paraded before the president. The program ended with the presentation of
a giant card signed by the entire student body. Following the program Dr. Martin stated to the DAVIDSONIAN: “The interest
of the students in doing something for me and my family at the time of my inauguration means more to
me than I could ever express. It indicates a friendship and confidence on the part of the students which I
am sure I do not deserve, but which I nevertheless cherish. “Many people have felt that I was ‘the students’
candidate’ for the presidency of Davidson. I hope that I shall be able to conduct myself always in a manner
which will make them feel that their confidence was justified.” From that day to the present, the life of D.
Grier Martin can be told through his relationship to Davidson College. The school was to influence each step of his
career. The future Davidson president entered college in the fall of 1928 and at the June graduation of 1932, in
the bottom of the depression, received his BS degree in history, cum laude. While at Davidson he built up a
brilliant record in student activities. Membership in Omicron Delta Kappa honorary leadership fraternity, and played on both the football and
baseball teams.

Outstanding Leaders On Board Of Visitors

Davidson College is fortunate to number among its many friends a group of outstanding men and women who compose the
Board of Visitors. The importance of this group of top-level leaders in business, civic, educational, professional and church life is
not often publicized, but their work is vital to the college. Founded in 1956, the Visitors serve as “opinion molders”
to interpret the college to specific groups. They also report to the college the reactions of the general public or
specific publics with which they are associated in business or community life, and help Davidson accomplish its objectives “by saying
the right thing at the right time to the right people” about its role as an outstanding Christian liberal arts
college. The Visitors are constantly at work for the betterment of Davidson. Not only do they serve as a group
on their own initiative, but they also work individually to promote the college’s interests.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Periodical Dickens. Visits to the campus, they do not hesitate to share their ideas with the faculty and administrative staff
in special advisory educational books. Sessions, and by letters, conferences, and telephone calls year-round.

IMMEASURABLE AID

Throughout their long history, such older institutions as Harvard and Yale have been immeasurably aided by men and women who
have served as “advisors” or “visitors,” who have thus made those institutions a “hobby” and who have worked continuously in
many diverse and informal ways to strengthen and undergird their educational programs.

The college has many good friends who would welcome a chance for a closer, semi-official relationship with Davidson. In turn,
the college and its President need such a group to keep in step both with other leading colleges and with
the continuing challenge that lies ahead.

KEY FRIENDS

Mr. Robert Sailstad, Assistant to the President, when asked about the Board of Visitors in terms of their functions and
services to the college, said, “The visitors provide us with key friends who are not only kept informed through meetings
but are in a position to advise us with college administration regarding the work to be done. Visitors can give
us continuing aid and they enable us to bring in outstanding leaders from all fields of endeavor from whom we
can gain much counsel and assistance.”

Mr. Sailstad continued, “This is a rather unique idea in this section of the country, although it has long been
a part of the tradition of Harvard and other top-ranking schools. Through the Visitors, we can gain the long-range view
that is so vital in planning for the future of any college.”

Mr. James J. Harris of Charlotte is the Chairman of the Board of Visitors of Davidson College at the present
time.

DAVIDSON

White Drug Co.
C. S. Goodrum, Class of 1914
Copeland's Hood Norton

In 1933, a phone call from Dr. Walter Lingle, then president of Davidson, brought him back to his alma mater
as Alumni Secretary, his first full-time job. The future Mrs. Martin was in New York directing dramatic plays in a
promising theatrical career. She returned to Davidson to assist with a local church play in August 1934 and began dating
Grier Martin at that time. They were married on July 14, 1935, and Mrs. Martin gave up her dramatic career
to settle in Davidson with her husband.

During his tenure as Alumni Secretary and Publicity Director, Martin published the first issue of the Davidson College Alumni Journal,
which now reaches 10,000 alumni. The position of manager of the Heating Equipment Department of the Campbell Coal Company in
Atlanta, Georgia, called him from Davidson in 1936 and he resigned his former post. His brother Joe, now president of
the Dana Corporation, had notified him of the opportunity.

Four years later, Davidson College again played an important role in his life. Bob Kell, student body president the year
Martin was a freshman, was seeking a sales manager for the Grey Hosiery Mills in Bristol, Virginia. Remembering him, Kell
contacted Frank L. Jackson who gave Martin the recommendation for the job.

Martin’s business career was interrupted in 1944-1945, when he served as a Lieutenant in the United States Navy. Following the
war, he resumed his position as partner and sales manager, and his active role in community life. During these years,
he was secretary of the Bristol and Sullivan County Planning Commission, member of the Bristol School Board, and president of
the local Lions Club. As has been true throughout his career, he participated widely in religious and social work, as
director of the Salvation Army and American Red Cross, and a deacon of the First Presbyterian Church in Bristol.

In 1950, another phone call from Davidson directed his path in a new direction. Dr. John R. Cunningham asked him
to consider coming to the college as Treasurer and Business Manager. Six months later, the Martin family, now numbering five,
returned to Davidson. Martin was to serve in this role through 1958.

The latest and most important in the series of phone calls affecting Martin and Davidson came last year from Mr.
D. R. LaFar in Gastonia. It notified him that the Board of Trustees had elected him the thirteenth president of
Davidson in a meeting on May 15. Today he is being officially instated in that office which he accepted one
year ago.

President Martin has continued his active service in educational, business, and religious work. Besides his duties here at Davidson, he
is also a Trustee of Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Virginia, a director of the Piedmont Bank and Trust Company
in Davidson, and a deacon of the College Presbyterian Church. In February of this year, King College in Bristol, Tennessee
conferred an honorary Doctor of Laws degree upon him.

Amid his busy schedule, Dr. Martin still seeks relaxation with his family and his favorite hobbies. His oldest son, Jack
McMichael (Mike) is a graduate student in History at Duke University; David Grier Jr. (“D. G.") is a Davidson freshman;
and Susan Embry (Mimy) attends Davidson School. Continuing his interest in sports, Dr. Martin still enjoys playing golf, pitching horseshoes,
and water skiing. In recent years, he and Mrs. Martin have conducted student tours to Europe.

With the inauguration services today, David Grier Martin will become an integral part of the tradition of that college which
has so influenced him throughout his life.

Wise Florist
Besk Inc. Jewelers
Army-Navy Store
Economy Store
Goodman Drugs - Prescriptions

Paid $23,000 to students. ROTC payments were $48,000, making the total over $71,000. 1959—PRESIDENT

Agriculture — Maize
Arts, Letters, Humanities — White
Dentistry — Lilac
Education, Pedagogy — Light Blue
Engineering — Orange
Fine Arts, Architecture — Brown
Forestry — Russet
Journalism — Dark Purple
Law — Purple
Library Science — Lemon
Medicine — Green
Music — Pink
Nursing — Apricot
Oratory — Silver Gray
Pharmacy — Olive
Philanthropy — Rose
Philosophy — Dark Blue
Public Health — Salmon
Physical Education — Sage Green
Science — Golden Yellow
Social Service — Citron
Surgical Chiropody — Nile Green
Theology and Divinity — Scarlet
Veterinary Science — Gray

Assignments
Cartoonists — Redding
Advertising Manager — Charlie Rowe
Circulation Mgr. — Albert McClure, Jr.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
