a aD ’ \vith some good linemen and “just one back.”

FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1959 THE DAVIDSONIAN

High-Riding Cat Cindermen Host High Point Tomorrow Fine Record Gives Davidson Odds; Whittle Happy, Only One Loss; Furman Wednesday

Football coaches don’t just work from September to the end of December. One of the crucial factors in determining the
success of a season is the period from Christmas to summertime when high school football players begin to take their
College Boards, go before admissions committees, and decide which institution is going to give them the best deal.

By BILL GODWIN

Tomorrow afternoon Davidson’s winning trackmen meet High Point on Richardson Field. They travel to Greenville on Wednesday to face the
Purple Paladins of Furman. Coach Whittle this week stressed Davidson’s advantages over High Point. “They’ve already beaten them badly this
year, and we beat the Generals.”

SIDELINES ON SPORTS By B. MILLNER

JUST ONE BACK...

Coach Dole sat on the edge of a bench in the coaches’ locker room and looked down at an empty
Coca-Cola cup. Finally, he turned and said, “I'll tell you what you can say—we were looking for backs. We came
up with some good linemen and just one back.”

Dole also commented that he had lost some six or eight prospects to Morehead scholarships. “You just don’t turn down
one of those things,” he grinned.

Dole said that if entrance standards continue to increase he would have to enlarge his recruiting area. “There are not
enough good boys in this area who can pass the entrance requirements.”

“The next two weeks will tell whether we'll be able to field a freshman football team or not.” Dole has
ten available scholarships. He has eight of them filled—but just one back.

THE CITADEL AT FAULT

But, playing here the next week, Coach Whittle’s runners romped over Washington and Lee, 74 to 57. McBryde was high
scorer for both teams, taking first place in the mile and the 880 and finishing third in the javelin throw,
for 11 points.

At Winston-Salem last Saturday, the Wildcats won a triangular meet from Wake Forest and East Carolina. The latter two fought
it out for second place while Davidson racked up 88.5 points.

Coach Whittle also praised the work of Ed Kizer, who copped the 440. Looking to next Wednesday, Whittle expected a
neck-and-neck battle with Furman in Greenville. “They won last year,” he said. “But they had to take the relay to
beat us, 66.5 to 63.5.”

It was the climactic play. The Citadel’s number one tennis player, Jack Sterling, had Semi Mintz at match point in
the third set at 5-4. He was about to avenge a previous encounter in which the wily thin man had
out-smarted him for a three-set win. Sterling served twice and double faulted, bringing the score back to deuce. He won
the next point, however, and again had Mintz on the ropes. He served two more faults. Sterling tightened up and
won the point at deuce and then popped two more serves into the net. Undaunted, he took the deuce point
to give himself still another advantage situation—and double-faulted again. Colan Mintz was getting bored with the whole thing. The fourth
time Sterling double-faulted Semi grabbed the next two points, won the game and went on to take the set 11-9,
and the match. Perseverance pays off.

WILDCAT GREAT MAKES GOOD

Whit Cobb, ’50, perhaps the finest all-around athlete Davidson has produced in the last decade, was recently in the headlines
as a possible successor to Hal Bradley as head basketball coach at Duke. Cobb, the Blue Devil freshman coach, brought
along this year’s highly talented bunch of sophomores who are already potentially the best Duke basketball team in years.

Cobb also is head coach of the highly successful Duke tennis squad that Davidson faced yesterday. The general consensus is,
however, that he will be passed up for a more experienced basketball man with some national reputation.

While at Davidson Cobb served as student body president and was a basketball, track, and tennis star. In 1950 Cobb
was chosen Southern Conference Athlete of the Year. He has been succeeded in the honor by such athletes as Dick
Groat and Frank Selvy.

CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE

The ‘Cats, Whittle said, are stronger in this event this year. Ed Kizer, Chester Alexander, Roger Beebe and Brownie Thurman
make up the relay foursome.

By JIM HAMILTON

The Davidson College Tennis Team, riding a five-match victory tide, moved into the brunt of their schedule this week as
they stroked two rugged Atlantic Coast foes. Yesterday the netters were at Durham for a match that promised to be
a tightly contested one. Duke won another close match 5-4 last year. Coach Dick McKee described Duke “as one of
the best teams in the A.C.C. though.”

The Tarheels of Carolina promised to be a tougher foe. Having lost only two players from last year's A.C.C. championship
team, the Tarheels are still the cream of the crop in their league. McKee, however, believed his boys should make
a good showing.

The ‘Cats moved closer to mid-season form last week with impressive wins over M.I.T. and Citadel. A strong M.I.T. team
succumbed 6-3 to the hustling ‘Cats and Citadel, whom the

John Poindexter McKee’s No. 2 ManYourself? (Charleston, was dropped 8-1. Do You Think for Yourself? Do you believe your choice
of a filter cigarette should be based on hearsay? If you're the kind of person who thinks for yourself, then
choosing a cigarette will be based on a careful study of the facts—not on quick decisions. Men and women who
think for themselves usually smoke VICEROY. Their good judgment tells them there's only one cigarette with a thinking man’s filter
and a smoking man’s taste. And that cigarette is VICEROY.

*If you've answered “NO” to eight out of the nine questions above, you really think for yourself!

©1950, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. 1800 W. Morehead St. Charlotte, N.C. Open Nightly 5-12 P.M. FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ED
2-2414 After 2 P.M.

TAKE THIS TEST AND FIND OUT!

1. Does it bother you to admit that you haven't read a very popular book? Yes [ ] No [
]
2. Do you think there are degrees of cheating in a game or examination? Yes [ ] No [ ]
3. Are there certain foods you feel you'd dislike without having ever tried them? Yes [ ] No [ ]
4. Would you be seriously concerned to read in your horoscope that catastrophe would befall you tomorrow? Yes [ ]
No [ ]
5. Do you often fall short of cash several days before your pay or allowance is due? Yes [ ]
No [ ]
6. When you're driving, do you like to be first getting away from a stop light about to change? Yes
[ ] No [ ]
7. Would you be reluctant to learn a new sport in the presence of friends who were experts? Yes [
] No [ ]
8. Do you believe your choice is his dog’s? Yes [ ] No [ ]
9. Is it really true that “a man’s best friend is his dog”? Yes [ ] No [ ]

ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN’S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

Davidson Riflemen Lead Loop Tourney

At the end of the first stage of the North Carolina R.O.T.C. Invitational Rifle Tournament, the Davidson sharpshooters command the
leading position with a score of 1855 out of a possible 2000 points. The second and final stage of the
tournament will be held on Saturday, April 11, at North Carolina State College in Raleigh.

Stan Gaines has thus far set the pace for the Wildcat riflers with a score of 376 out of a
possible 400 points. In overall tournament competition, Gaines is in third place, only 9 points behind Wake Forest's Hatfield, who
is in first place with a 384. Team Captain Joe Wearn and Stan Gaines have been chosen for positions on
the second squad of the All-Southern Conference Varsity Rifle Team. Marksmen Wearn and Gaines have just recently led the Davidson
R.O.T.C. and Varsity Rifle team to the Western Carolina Conference Championship.

Davidson Wildcat Baseballers Hope for Better Record

By BOB GREEN

The Wildcat baseballers meet Pfeiffer at Misenheimer tomorrow, hoping to improve their 1-9 season record. Dee Green will start on
the mound for the overdue ‘Cats. It will be the first meeting of the clubs and Pfeiffer has lost only
once this season.

Presbyterian’s Blue Hose will play Davidson here next Wednesday with Pat Henderson tentatively hurling for Davidson. The Catawba Indians dropped
the Wildcat squad 5-4 on March 23 and the University of Connecticut outscored the hosts 11-7 on March 25. The
Ohio University game the following day was rained out at the end of four innings.

The Wildcats began their spring tour Friday, March 27, traveling to Statesboro for a Saturday game with Georgia State Teachers
College. The Teachers edged the ‘Cats 2-1. Rollins College stepped Davidson 6-5 and 6-2 in Winter Park, Florida.

FIRST WIN

The ‘Cats garnered their first win of the season in a doubleheader with the V.M.I. Keydets last Friday. The Wildcat
nine scored six runs on nine hits while the losers scored once. Dee Green was the winning pitcher, allowing five
hits for the distance. The Keydets bounced back in the second game, scoring two runs in the first inning and
running up a game total of six. Mabry was the winning hurler and Davidson starter Jim Smith was charged with
the loss. Reagan and Killian led the ‘Cats at the plate with two bingles apiece.

‘CATS CLOBBERED

The 'Cats received their worst drubbing of the season as Richmond downed them 23-1 at Richmond Tuesday. The winners rattled
out eighteen hits and the 'Cats committed six errors. Swilling was the winner while Davidson used Henderson, Lide, and Smith.
Coach Tom Stevens praised Don Killian and Russ Cotton for their outstanding play at shortstop and third base, respectively. A
lot of mental and fielding errors have stymied the ‘Cats’ efforts so far this season.

Wildcat Linksters Club Citadel, Hit Furman Next

Davidson's golfers completed their third match of regular season play in Charlotte Wednesday with a 22-5 victory over The Citadel.
A week from today the ‘Cats swing against Furman in Greenville. Tom Johnson and Sam Sloan, in Davidson's second and
fifth positions respectively, clubbed 73's against the Bulldogs, and were the Wildcats’ medalists. Three 75’s and a 76 rounded out
the other individual Davidson scores. Coach Tom Scott is looking forward to a “pretty good match” with the Purple Hurricanes
next week. “We ought to get a good idea of how strong they will be in Southern Conference play,” he
said.

“The only comparison between the two teams are the matches we have both shot with The Citadel. We beat ‘em
22 to 5. And during last year's tour, we tied with George Washington for first place, while Furman finished way
down on the list, with Citadel fourth.”

Coach Scott mentioned Furman’s outstanding linkster, senior Haywood Sullivan. “Our Verner Stanley tagged him in two matches last year.” Scott
also said that the Wildcats whipped Furman last year—"the first match they had lost in four years.”

Davidson traveled to the Greenbrier-White Sulphur Springs in West Virginia on the 28th of March for the White Sulphur Tourney.
Ohio University won the tournament, a 36-hole affair. The ‘Cats tied with Colgate for second place and trailed Ohio by
only seven strokes. The tournament covered March 28 and 29, with 18 holes shot each day. “It was our first
meet of the season,” said Scott. “We averaged 74, which, I think, was very good for the opener.”

Last week Davidson journeyed to play two home-state foes. At Raleigh on the 3rd, a 13.5-13.5 tie resulted with North
Carolina State. The ‘Cats were beaten the next day by the North Carolina Tarheels, 15 to 12. The Wildcats will
go into the Furman meet next Friday with a one-win, one-loss, one-tie record. After Furman, a triangular meet will be
held at the Myers Park Country Club in Charlotte. The opponents will be rugged Wake Forest and The Citadel. Said
Coach Scott, “Wake Forest will be the stronger of the two; they should win their conference. But we're counting on
our low 73 and 74 team average to pull us through.”

HI-FI COMPONENTS At Wholesale Net Prices Across From Ivey's 5th St. Entrance 126 West Fifth St. Charlotte 2, N.C.

LOOK YOUR BEST for SPRING FROLICS in Tuxedoes, Dinner Jackets, Cummerbunds, & Shirts from Rash Wilson Ltd. Main Street Davidson,
N.C.
