FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1959 THE DAVIDSONIAN SIDELINES SPORTS By B. MILLNER

HOMECOMING was a good weekend for sports from the spectator’s viewpoint, particularly if the spectator were pulling for the wrong
team. The Wildcats engaged in without a doubt the two most suspenseful afternoons of the fall sports season, but with
traditional Homecoming luck, lost a soccer match and a football game.

IT’S HARD to use the word “lost” when you talk about that soccer game with Carolina, one of the nation’s
most highly regarded teams and a contender for the N.C.A.A. championship. BUT THE SCORE was one to nothing and the
‘Cats were on the short end. The score didn’t show 15 amateurs, in the strictest sense of the word, play
their hearts out against a two-platooning team of recruited specialists. It didn’t show the anguish on the Tarheel coach's face
or the desperation in his team’s play as they fought off their first defeat in 12 games and watched a
national ranking nearly wash down the drain.

THE SOCCER FIELD was a great wide hog slop of mud and players often had to plough through ankle-deep puddles
to root out the ball. The Tarheels may not have been used to roughing it — the mire may have
slowed them down — but the truth is, they were out-hustled and out-played. You can’t take anything away from them—their
defense was tremendous and their offensive line continually poured on the pressure. But they had an “up” team on their
hands and for a good part of the time they didn’t know what to do with it. THEY WON on
a good shot, but a lucky one, and they deserved to win. The sad part is that the team they
beat had played a little harder, a little better, and deserved that one goal just a little more.

CHARLIE B. was back and it looked like we might break the worst losing string since those dismal fall afternoons
in the early fifties. WOFFORD HAD SCORED and the cheerleaders, after a feeble attempt to liven things up with a
mule and female companionship, had settled back into their normal state of general inadequacy. THEN, BENSON, who hadn’t done any
rough work in three weeks, suddenly was behind the center, and Davidson could have scored on any team on the
schedule. DAVE WARDEN, bad ankle and all, ran harder and farther than he has all year. The Wofford line, which
isn’t very good anyway, suddenly was as holy as Swiss cheese and Warden reeled off three first downs in a
row.

THE CHANGE which spread over the Homecoming crowd when Benson first took over was as noticeable as the change in
the team. Several versions of pulchritude even asked who this Benson boy was. EVERY TIME Benson was hit, there were
2,000 grimaces and just as many sighs of relief as he got back up with the knee all in one
place. BENSON WAS not up to full strength, although at times that good left arm made the Springfield rifle look
like a BB gun. It was on defense that the bad knee took its toll. Benson was the only man
between Wofford’s Whitlock and their next-to-last score. He had cut across toward Whitlock as the latter was coming down the
sideline. Whitlock faked and swerved toward midfield. Benson anticipated beautifully but as he spun on the bad knee, he slipped,
and the Wofford quarterback was out of reach.

IT WAS A GOOD game but we lost. The fifth in a row. But it was Homecoming and the girls
were here and not a whole lot of people in the stands really cared.

With Benson Back, By BILL GODWIN Davidsonian Sports Writer

Tomorrow afternoon THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN ARM—Benson (right) slings a 50-yard pass to Danny House (left) who scored. (Davidsonian
Photos by Rose)

‘Cats Host Indians Here Victory-Starved Wildcats Look For Second Win Against William & Mary Here Tomorrow

Davidson, bearing a 1-5 season's record, will stage a balanced attack under the direction of quarterback Charlie Benson, hoping to
break through an Indian defensive wall which has proved this fall to be somewhat less than stable. In seven games
William and Mary has been scored upon for 26, 29, 38, and 20 points, while posting a 2-5 record. A
real showing of the Indian defensive strength came three weeks back as they were nosed by a stout Furman squad,
8-7. The Wildcats have capable backs in Dave Warden, Jerry Sheffield, George Hart, and Graham Allison who should be able
to “move the ball,” Coach Bill Dole has said they must, to win. But fourth down situations may present a
problem.

Last week Coach Dole had two talented kickers—Sheffield and Grant McRorie—who, up until then, had averaged better than 40 yards
per boot. In the Wofford game, however, halfback McRorie splintered a cartilage in his knee and will be out for
the season. “McRorie played 65 to 70 percent of the games,” lamented Dole. So the Wildcat skipper this week shuddered
at the thought that Sheffield might also be sidelined and began probing his ranks for an extra kicker. He has
come up with Bob Huddle of the Keydets.

Despite the front running duo of Dave Gilmour and Bill Eckbert, V.M.I. league leading harriers eked out a 28-30 win
over scrappy Davidson Wednesday afternoon. Gilmour, who won his third race of the season, breezed home in the time of
22:41, his best time for the year. And the slender soph appeared to have plenty of kick left at the
finish. Co-captain Eckbert loped home right behind him in the time of 22:53. The loss was the first conference defeat
of the year for the Wildcats. Their overall record is 7-2. The Wednesday meet was considered a crucial one since
it gave an indication as to the Conference meet to be held the 16th of this month. The meet now
appears a three-way duel between V.M.I., Davidson, and West Virginia which lost a squeaker to V.M.I. last week.

Monday the 'Cats travel to Raleigh for the State meet. Gilmour appears to have a good opportunity to cop individual
honors in the meet. So far he has lost to no conference competition—although he has dropped one meet to Eckbert.
However, as of yet, he has faced no one from West Virginia. The State Meet on Monday poses as a
two-way contest between Duke and High Point. High Point downed the Wildcats and Furman in a triangular meet several weeks
ago. Third place should go to either Davidson or the University of North Carolina. Head Coach Heath Whittle commented that
it was hard to say exactly “but I like to think that we will get third.” Other schools participating include
Wake Forest, N.C. State, Catawba, and Pembroke. Also Wednesday, the 'Cat remaining staged a quick rally.with two men—fullback Russ Cotton
and quarterback Duncan Morton—who may be able to take up the slack. Except for Meeks, the Wildcats are in good
shape, physically.

Wofford Spoils Grid Homecoming 27-20

Quarterback Charlie Benson, recovering from a serious knee injury, spurred Davidson's Wildcats in a tremendous offensive attack Saturday, but it
wasn’t quite enough as Wofford scored two fourth-quarter touchdowns and a 27-20 victory. A crowd watched the game, a spirited
homecoming, as Davidson tied at 20-20 with 4:15 remaining. From the Wofford nine, halfback Jerry Sheffield completed a pass to
Danny House in the end zone, and Bruce Usher converted for the deadlock. A few moments later, the Terriers had
driven to the Wildcat 11, where halfback Jim Benson took a handoff and raced to the tie-breaking paydirt. The PAT
try was good, and Wofford led by seven.

Still alive, the Wildcats only needed to have it fall through just before the final gun when Wofford quarterback Gary
Whitlock intercepted a Tom Redding pass. The season mourned another loss as left halfback Grant McKorie, a sophomore, suffered a
knee injury during the game and will be out for the rest of the year. Coming off the disabled list
Saturday was team co-captain Charlie Benson, who was largely responsible for Davidson's total 182 yards gained through the air. His
third-quarter pass to Danny House for 50 yards produced the Wildcats' second TD.

Fullback Dave Warden drew praise from Coach Bill Dole for his efforts on offense and defense. Also outstanding in the
backfield was sophomore halfback Graham Allison. The Wildcats will face North Carolina tomorrow with a team that sports a hefty
line and a backfield averaging 203 pounds. The Indians have two rugged halfbacks, sophomore Jim Hale, who averaged 11.9 yards
per carry last year, and hard-running Roger Stoy. At fullback is Lauren Kardatzke, and quarterback Bob Porach handles the ball
with amazing authority. The line is anchored by Mike Lashley, a bruiser at tackle, and team captain Grady Lynn, who
is fast and rugged on both offense and defense. The Indian offense employs variations of the split-T and wing-T. In
1958, the Wildcats whipped William and Mary, 16-7.

Soccer Squad Rips Pfeiffer

By JIM PRESSLY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Rebounding from a heart-breaking Homecoming loss, the Wildcat soccer aggregation ran roughshod over an undermanned Pfeiffer eleven, winning 4-0 Wednesday
afternoon. Coach Paul Marrotte emptied his bench in the fourth quarter. The 'Cats, riding high on a 6-2 record, their
best mark since the sport was started here, scored two goals in the second and third quarters. Mike Laughlin, who
played an outstanding game, opened the scoring column and was followed by Tom Price, Kelly Thompson, Tom Green, and Joe
Brun.

NEAR UPSET

Last Friday, Davidson's hard-fighting squad almost upset nationally ranked Carolina. The winning goal in the 1-0 defeat was a chance
shot and was not the result of a well-executed play. Thompson, playing Carolina's inside right position, kicked the goal after
a general pile-up in front of the Davidson goal. Coach Marrotte had nothing but praise for his team after the
effort. He singled out McKeithen as “playing his best game” and said that Finney, Ward, and all 15 men who
were used played very well. “As far as team effort, this was our best game, although the Duke game was
also a tremendous team effort.” He also said that the Carolina and Duke coaches commented on the relentless play of
the 'Cats.

BEST SEASON?

Coach Marrotte declined to comment on whether this might be the best season ever had by a Davidson team. Laughingly
he said, “Let's wait 'til the season is over and then I'll comment.” However, speaking of future games, he did
say that the 'Cats had an “excellent” chance of defeating State. As for Emory and Belmont Abbey, Marrotte said that
the Wildcats would have to guard against an upset by combating overconfidence.

Phi Delts Whip Betas, Grab Flickerball Lead

By BILL THOMPSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Phi Delts moved into a deciding lead in the Interfraternity flickerball race with their 20-6 victory over the previously
undefeated Betas last Wednesday. Led by the fine play of quarterback Bobby Davis and Marvin Bentley, the Phi Delts proved
to be a good all-around team that had too much for the Betas. The Phi Delts tallied first when Davis
hit John Harris with a 15-yard scoring pass. Another pass from Davis, this time to Mike Wilson, was good for
the extra point, and the Phi Delts quickly struck again on a long pass that saw the ball passed from
Davis to Andy Sherrill to Wilson to Dan Calhoun. Davis passed to Calhoun for the PAT, and the Phi Delts
led 14-0.

In the second half, a pass from Davis to Bentley to Davis carried the Phi Delts to the two. Davis
hit Harris on a quick pass over the middle for the TD. The extra point attempt failed, and the Phi
Delts led 20-0. The Betas came fighting back with a Mel Armstrong-to-Billy Davis pass carrying to the three. The PAT
try was unsuccessful, and the final score was 20-6.

On Tuesday, the KAs beat the ATOs 12-6. The Pikas dropped the Sigma Nus 26-0. The Sigma Chis rolled by
the Sig Eps, and the Independents forfeited to the SAEs. Wednesday saw the Phi Delts beat the Betas. The Kappa
Sigs crushed the Sigma Nus 46-6, and the Sigma Chis dropped the Pikas 25-20. The Phi Gams pounded the ATOs
37-7. On Thursday, the SAEs rolled over the KAs 13-6, and the Phi Delts beat the ATOs 26-13. The Betas
downed the Phi Gams 26-13. The Independents dropped the ATOs 19-7, while the Kappa Sigs walloped the Pi Kapps.

UNOFFICIAL STANDINGS
W L Pct.
Phi Delt 10 0 1.000
Beta 10 1 .900
SAE 8 2 .800
Kappa Sig 7 2 .777
Sigma Chi 7 3 .700
Phi Gam 5 4 .555
Pi Kapp 4 6 .400
ATO 4 7 .363
Sig Ep 2 8 .200
Ind. 2 8 .200
Pika 1 9 .100
Sigma Nu 0 10 .000

THE freshmen tied V.M.I. 28-28 and downed Myers Park 25-32.
