Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

PERSONALITIES SYNOD YOUNG PEOPLE DUE IN MONDAY

Look around you a bit every once in a while, enjoy the fascinating people which pervade the college campus this
summer. I'm sure our friends here will forgive us if we allow ourselves to introduce to our readers some of
the more famous men who have come back this session to share their friendly little eccentricities with the rest of
us.

Take Hog, for instance. He'll be glad to engage anyone with the necessary qualifications in a good ol' Coke drinking
contest in the cafeteria... And Combat Kelly - it's confidential but we understand that he's been asked to take Cop
Linker's position during his vacation... Daugherty's green hornet taxi service... Rembrandt Redding's 68th work in oil to the same girl...
Babcock, the Wanderer, quoting Macbeth to Dr. Crawford...

Wells Garden's expressed relief that there's no Court of Control in summer school... Smoothy Miller, shower of the high school
set, rescued by cops from beach jives... Al Andrews undertaking bum rap from beach police... General Garvin opening bootleg dispensary
on campus in absence of functional infirmary... Graham and Butch coming at last into the open from the confines of
the science building, see the Dana foundations for the first time... Honest Henry Meale's disconnected speedometer - will travel... Kirkpatrick,
giving advice to lovelorn Levin's hopefuls, and anyone else, incidentally... Schaffaker returning to run hill on rotation basis during administration
vacation... Armfield, cooperating with Wilder, Fund largest chapel of Session... Paul Franson, the man in the long black beard... C.
Shaw Smooth opens art gallery in office...

Next week Davidson College plays host to the North Carolina Presbyterian young people. Approximately 300 boys and girls ranging from
high school juniors to college sophomores will meet here for religious study and recreation.

Rev. Russell Kerr, pastor of Philadelphia Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, will direct the conference activities, and the principal speakers will be
Rev. Ben Lacy Rose, Lee Stoffel, and Frank Hall.

Registration is scheduled for Monday afternoon and the young people will leave our campus after breakfast on Saturday.

You might find the following helpful:
Union Hours: 8:30 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
Cafeteria:
Breakfast: 7:15 to 7:45 a.m.
Lunch: 12:30 to 1:15 p.m.
Dinner: 5:30 to 6:15 p.m.
Student Store:
7:00 to 8:00 a.m.
12:00 to 2:00 p.m.
6:00 to 8:00 p.m.

Backward, turn backward,
O Time in thy flight.
I've thought of a comeback
I needed last night...

---
