Netters Second In Tourney (See Page 3)

VOL. XLVI

IFC Restricts Dean Bailey On Chushing Regulations Released; Dorm Visiting Council Will Enforce Two Other New Rules

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY MAY 15, 1959

Drinking; Who Has The Answer?
By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Currie Announces Plans For Summer

R. A. Currie, College Business Manager, announced this week that work on the Davidson plant this summer will include the
Fraternity Court, Dana Science Building, the new dormitory, and the President’s Home.

“The problem of drinking and after dance parties is a serious and complex one, and there is no easy solution,”
said Dean of Students John C. Bailey, Jr. in a DAVIDSONIAN interview Wednesday morning. “I hope all concerned will work
cooperatively to find the best solution. At present I do not have it.

“If the Trustees would send a committee to me right now,” he continued, “and give me blanket authority, I would
have to say that I wouldn't know what to do. This is not a simple thing.”

The Dean squelched a campus rumor that a dance weekend curfew had been proposed by some members of the faculty.
“I have no official information concerning this. I have not missed any faculty meetings and would certainly have known about
it if anything had taken place. Of course, I cannot predict what action might be taken.

“There are problems to be solved here but I am not pushing the adoption of a curfew. I do not
think a curfew would solve any problems because dates could be kept out of town if students wanted to get
around it, and regulation of this would necessitate other restrictions that would be undesirable.”

Concerning the drinking rule, Bailey said, “I think the interpretation of ‘under the influence’ is somewhat hazy and I don’t
think it should be that way. However, the best courts in the land are trying to determine exactly what ‘under
the influence’ means.

“The situation,” stated the Dean in regards to after dance parties, “is dangerous. If there was some unfavorable occurrence in
some of the locations frequented, the Davidson administration, or any other administration in a similar situation, would be forced to
act.

“The students should realize the seriousness of the situation. Perhaps desirable standards could be worked out by the cooperation of
the fraternities. Again I must say that I do not know the best answer but feel obligated to work toward
obtaining it.”

Bailey then commented on the Trustees' relation to these problems. “There are certain individuals on the Board of Trustees that
are concerned, but they expect the faculty to handle it directly. They have not taken any official action.

“However, a committee was appointed last year to study the problem, but so far as I know there were no
specific recommendations.

“I do not know what is in their minds concerning this matter. They do have the ultimate legal responsibility for
the College.

“Also there has been no official faculty decision concerning these problems this year although several members are concerned.

“A trustee or faculty decree is not enough, however. The students should realize what an unfavorable incident could do and
should cooperate to work things out.”

Bailey commented that he felt student-faculty relations have been improved this year, adding that he considered it a “very good
year” in that respect.

Whitesell Discusses Freshman Orientation
By DON SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Bill Whitesell, Freshman Advisor to the Class of 1963, has announced the names of the group counsellors for next September.
He discussed the plans for Orientation Week, September 10-15.

“Our main job is to see that the entire program comes off smoothly,” said Whitesell. He cited a few minor
changes to be made in the plans of last year. “We'll include a talk about the Honor Court, along with
one about Student Government in general,” he said.

This is in addition to comments made to incoming freshmen by faculty and student members of various departments and organizations
on campus.

“The Y program for the next year will also be plugged,” stated Whitesell. “Their program is being stepped up, and
we hope to get more freshmen active in it.”

As in the past, the administration will give the tests taken by all incoming students in Mathematics and English, as
well as the psychological tests. “We're going to try to eliminate this in the growing phone-booth stuffing craze, becoming the
first college newspaper staff to carry on all production work in a telephone booth. The entire staff worked busily, even
though handicapped by an undersized booth. Only six of the multitude of workers, however, are visible in this photograph. (Photo
by Rose)

Class Of '59 Ceremonies — Girls Blast DC “Gentleman” (See Page 2)

NO. 28

By TOMMY COLVIN
Davidsonian News Editor

At its regular meeting last Monday at 10:00 p.m. the IFC passed the regulations for next year's rush week. Included
in these regulations are several new rules which will alter several aspects of rush week.

The biggest change concerns the beginning of dorm rushing. Although next year’s freshmen will arrive on campus Thursday, September 10,
no dorm rushing will be allowed until 8:00 a.m. on Saturday, September 12. IFC president Ward McKeithen stated, “This is
to allow a freshman to get temporarily settled before rushing begins.”

The IFC passed two other additions to the rushing regulations. One of these requires that “no rushing will be carried
out which would interfere with orientation.” The other states that “no fraternity member or pledge shall make any derogatory remarks
directly toward another fraternity with the express intent of slandering or degrading said fraternity in the eyes of a rushee.
Rushees should report any violations of this section to the IFC for consideration.”

The regulations concerning rush parties are the same as last year. Confirmation for rush parties will take place Monday in
Chambers Auditorium under the direct control of the IFC. Rush parties will get underway Monday night at 7:00 p.m., concluding
Friday evening. Formal pledging will take place between the hours of 3:00 to 4:30 p.m. on Saturday, September 19.

Next year the IFC will provide permanent name tags to the rushees to be used during all rush parties. The
IFC is also considering removing from the post office. This would be done to avoid any mix-up in the dates
for the last six parties to be held on Thursday and Friday.

The usual restrictions will still be in effect. Any fraternity which violates a rushing regulation will be fined fifty dollars.
Ward McKeithen announced that the IFC would explain the rushing regulations to the rush chairmen at a meeting next Tuesday.
The dates for the

New Laundry May Be Hopeful ‘Stack’ Dreams
By RAN SHAFFNER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

What is being done to the clothes that pass through the Davidson laundry? Give me a handkerchief or a sock
and let me take it through on a tour under guidance of Mr. C. W. Stacks.

From the bin, your laundry is moved to the check-in department. Here perhaps Blanche Goodrum, one of five in this
section, takes your bundle, weighs it, and begins the tedious job of sorting your clothes into net bags and your
sheets, towels, and pillowcases into wooden bins. The load is counted, listed, marked, and placed in the net bags and
bins.

After Guy Dell Connor rolls the load to the automatic washer, where your sock is rinsed for 36 minutes in
water heated to 160 degrees. If it is a colored sock, it is washed in cold water and low pH
soap. Again the sheets are separated from the net bags. Willie Johnson presses the sheets in the flatwork ironer, while
the towels are dried in the tumbler. The 40 bundles are checked in, and a buzzer is rung.

(Continued On Page Four)

The College plans to regrade extensively in Patterson Fraternity Court, in an effort to remedy the flooding of basements in
some houses. The heavily-used areas of the floors in each house will be refinished and repaired.

COURT CENTER UNTOUCHED

The temporary seedings of grass will be replaced with permanent lawns. At the present time, Currie commented, no funds are
available for work on the center area of the Court.

The Administration does not expect the construction of the Dana Science Building to be finished until Christmas. After completion of
the roof in June, interior work will continue regardless of weather conditions. The Maintenance Department will refinish the Biology and
Physics equipment this summer for moving into the new laboratories later.

Prof. J. B. Gallent has finalized plans for the conversion of the Martin Science Building for use entirely by the
Chemistry Department. The Administration is now obtaining cost estimates for the work, which will begin with the painting of the
building this summer.

NEW DORM PLANS

Architects Lashmit, Faires, and Brown and Pollack will complete plans for the new dormitory by June 1; bids will be

THE DAVIDSONIANDance weekends were also set at the meeting. Homecoming will be on the weekend of October 30-31. Midwinters will
take place February 12-14, while Spring Frolics will be held on April 22-24. President McKeithen commented, “We are announcing these
dates a little early so that everyone will have time enough to get a date.”

The IFC discussed further the possibility of having a concert by some name group after a football game next fall.
Other items discussed during the meeting were possible new plans about the scholarship trophy and the trustee-fraternity luncheons to be
held next week. Questioned after the meeting about plans for next year, President McKeithen stated, “We are planning to revise
our constitution next year. We have also decided to withhold any discussion about preferential bidding until sometime next year. We
are investigating the possibility of having the conflict between the tests made during June and contracts let in July. Construction
will begin immediately and will be complete within a year. Currie noted that the progress is now somewhat ahead of
schedule.”

The annual commissioning of ROTC graduates will take place on Saturday morning at 9:45. Brig. Gen. Brady S. Brooks, class
of 1928, will give the address at the Commissioning Exercises. Contractors will complete work on the President's Home by the
end of May.

Also scheduled for that morning is the dedication of the new Babcock Wing of the Grey Memorial Library with Dr.
Martin, president of the college, presiding. Following the dedication, there will be a luncheon at 1:00 p.m. for all seniors,
their parents, and alumni. The luncheon has been planned as a box lunch affair and will be held on the
lawn in the general area of the two Literary Halls.

The Class Day Exercises will be in Chambers Auditorium at 4 o'clock, Saturday afternoon. Master of ceremonies will be Jim
Holmes. Tom Kernan, Valedictorian for the occasion, stated that the program “will consist of five speakers who will cover five
different aspects of Davidson life; the program will be one of organized comedy and will have an air of informality.”

Students who wish to keep their same Post Office boxes for next year must mail the yearly rental fee to
the Davidson Post Office between June 20 and July 1. Box numbers are assigned on a first come-first serve basis.
“If the students will write during that period and enclose a check for $3.60 to cover the rent, we can
assure them that they will get the boxes they want. They should indicate the box number and anyone with whom
they will be sharing the box,” reported William B. Mayhew, Postmaster. Mayhew also reminds students of the change of address
cards which are available in the Post Office. “It will facilitate faster forwarding of mail and better service if they
are filled out. Cards should be sent to magazine and newspaper publishers as soon as possible. First class mail will
be forwarded to students without charge, but additional postage is required for second and third class. In filling out the
change of address cards, one should indicate if he wants all mail forwarded, which would include circulars, or first class
only. Students are also requested to note if the change is permanent or just for the summer.”

Last year, an alphabetical division split the Freshman Class into orientation groups. This year, a plan to divide the groups
by dormitory floors is being considered, but nothing definite has yet been decided. “Anyway,” said Whitesell, “We want to see
a general speed-up of the physical examinations and proficiency tests also given during Orientation Week. In addition, Freshman registration for
classes will be spaced so that less time will be spent waiting outside Chambers dining hall. Other traditional features of
Orientation Week are being planned. The Queens Exchange Dance is planned by Queens students. The Activities Fair, which gives freshmen
a look at the wide range of student body interests, is under the direction of the Student Union Committee. Whitesell
also hopes to see closer cooperation between hall counselors and group leaders.”

The Academic Procession is scheduled for Monday morning at 10:15 and will consist of the 1959 Court of Control plans
stiff program honorary degrees from the college. The Procession will lead its way into Chambers Auditorium for the Graduating Exercise.
Speaker for this occasion will be Dr. James I. McCord, President-Elect of Princeton Theological Seminary. Dr. McCord is a native
of Texas and was educated at Austin College, Union and Austin Presbyterian Seminaries, and Harvard University. In 1944 he took
a position as professor at Austin Seminary and is presently serving as Dean of the Seminary. Dr. McCord has made
several previous trips to the Davidson campus.

The 1959 Court of Control held its organizational meeting in the Blue Room of the College Union Wednesday night with
Milton Gee, newly elected judge presiding. An air of “changed regulations,” “stiffer punishments,” and “more upper-classmen support” prevailed throughout the
meeting. Plans were made for major changes in next fall’s Court regulation structure in an effort to “put the Court
back in its proper place on the Davidson campus.” Among the major changes will be the starting of the Freshmen
Regulations on Saturday, September 12, just before Rush Week begins. The termination date for the enforcements will be October 31,
unless the freshmen are victorious in the Freshmen-Sophomore Field Day. This closing date will be approximately three weeks earlier than
in previous years. Freshmen-Sophomore Day is scheduled during the week of Homecoming.

Friday’s chapel procedure will also be changed. Freshmen violators will not be called to the front of the student body,
but will be required to rise at their seats. Their offense(s) will be stated before the student body and the
time of his trial will be announced. A Court of Control member will then remove his regular “beanie” hat and
place a specially marked hat on the violator's head. He will then be asked to leave chapel. The Court plans
a stiffer enforcement of regulations with more forceful punishment. Campusing and trials in chapel for “obstinate” freshmen will be a
more than likely procedure. The only big change planned in the printed Freshmen Regulations, which all freshmen will be required
to have, will be the leaving out of the section concerned with freshmen being required “to tip their hats to
members of the faculty and administration.” More pep rallies, and tighter controls in dealing with freshmen in attending pep rallies,
athletic contests, and learning of Davidson's songs and yells are also planned.

Jim Reynolds was appointed Head Cheerleader by the Student Council at its meeting Tuesday in the College Union. Commenting on
the appointment, Student Body President Dee Green said that he is looking forward next year to a revitalized student interest
in school spirit with the help of the cheerleaders. At the meeting Green also appointed Dave Warden and Charles Benson
to the Athletic Council. The Student Council heard a report on the recent student body elections by Sam Smith, head
of the Elections Board. Smith’s recommended changes in elections will be studied by the Council next fall.

The YMCA will conduct a clothing and book drive from May 22-29. The items collected will be sent to needy
student areas of the world through the channels of the World University Service program. Students are requested to place any
books and clothing which they can spare in boxes located on each dormitory hall and designated for this purpose.
