PAGE FOUR

SUPPLY PASTORS SERVE 18 CHURCHES

Boots, Two Guns, A Bible Semester Break Are Preacher's Gear

By CHARLES ROSE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Davidson men spend their weekend free time at many varying activities and in many distant states and cities, but when Sunday morning rolls around, the majority of some thirty-five students head for neighboring communities to preach a Sunday morning sermon. Supply pastors, most of them are called, but a few have a regular pulpit to fill two times a month. Those that don't preach play the organ, direct the choir, teach a Sunday School Class or direct other types of youth work.

This whole program of student supply work is under the direction of the YMCA. Churches in need of a preacher or other leadership help contact the Y office and a student is notified of the request. About thirty-five interested students have signed up for the jobs and are called whenever needed. A good number of these boys are pre-ministerial students who take the calls for the experience of preaching to a congregation. The program they offer is up to themselves. The college in no way regulates the student preachers except in one area. A student cannot accept a request through the Y office to preach for more than two Sundays a month. The administration has made this a policy because of the possibility of interference with school work.

The congregation that requests student supply work usually pays for the expenses involved in traveling to the church, but if it is unable to do so, these expenses are taken care of by the YMCA. During the 1957-1958 school year Davidson students filled 462 speaking and preaching engagements in churches and communities over a wide area around Davidson. Eighteen churches are at present being continuously supplied by students and faculty members.

All of the boys interviewed concerning their supply preaching work had just about the same general opinion of the benefits they derived from such work. At the top of the list is the satisfaction gained through the expression of their religious beliefs. Supply preachers from Davidson mean a great deal to the small rural communities that they serve, and it is not at all rare for students to make strong friendships within the congregations.

Butch Farabow, a Junior, and a regular supply pastor says, “The people in the church I go to really appreciate my efforts. Their church is just a small frame building and the congregation usually isn’t too large, but they are all sincere and very interested in everything I attempt to put across.” Butch usually goes out twice a month and receives about twenty dollars a Sunday “depending on the offering” he says. “One thing that I really noticed,” Butch said, “was that the grown-ups bring all of their children to church with them. Things can get noisy sometimes and I may even have to stop talking when they do, but I think all the families get more out of church by coming together.”

Probably the most unique area supplied by a Davidson student preacher is Love Valley near Statesville, N. C. Love Valley is the dream of a man named Andy Barker, who for many years wanted to build a community completely western style, and his dream is slowly coming true. Fred Streetman, a senior here, regularly preaches at the Love Valley Presbyterian Church. Fred says, “None of the streets are paved and there are no cars on the streets; everybody rides a horse. All of the buildings are made out of rough boards and there is a rough board sidewalk in front of them.” Everybody that lives in Love Valley wears cowboy boots and blue jeans and ten-gallon hats. The men all wear loaded guns. Fred said that the people are all interested in horse shows and rodeos. “Every Saturday night the people gather in the only cafe in town for a dance. This cafe is really the center of all their social life.”

Fred said that one time he was going up to the church to preach. It was raining and the road was mighty slick. His car slid off the road right in front of a “settler’s” house. Fred said he went up on the porch and when the man of the house came to the door he took one look at him and his car in the ditch and without another word said, “Damn city driver!” The congregation of the church has about forty members who all wear blue jeans on Sunday morning. “You can tell they are clean clothes,” Fred said, “and the men even wear their guns to church.” Harry Pascal, a senior at Davidson last year, used to preach at Love Valley regularly. Pascal wore both cowboy boots and guns when he preached. Fred Streetman said he hadn't bought any guns yet.

The Davidson supply preacher must of necessity be a versatile individual. His duties, as well as the people he deals with, may be both numerous and varied but no matter where he goes to preach, come the next Sunday, he is always eager to get back.

Kuykendall Calls For Exam Honesty

John Kuykendall, student body president, requested this morning in chapel that all possible diligence and action be displayed during the next two weeks to remove any suspicion of cheating during exams. The announcement was a statement authorized by the Student Council.

The council, in a short meeting Monday night, discussed the matter of the preceding statement, forthcoming business for its February sessions, and other minor reports. “The council issued a similar request last spring during final exams,” Kuykendall explained, “and it was felt that it aided in the matter of dishonesty. In general we ask that students avoid doing anything which would give the appearance of cheating.”

During the eight-day exam period, students are urged to leave all textbooks, notes and other study aids outside of Chambers or wherever the exam is administered. Only writing materials and other necessary equipment should be carried into the building. Kuykendall also asked students this morning to refrain from setting off firecrackers. He stressed the potential danger involved, even though injury might not be intentional.

Euphony Appears Next Monday

“Euphony” will hit the floors Monday, January 19. The Winter, 1959, edition will be devoted to the publication of student writing. The eight-page printed magazine contains humor, mood prose, a short story, and poetry. Three of the nine contributors are freshmen.

Part of the “Euphony” humor is in a story entitled “The Battle of the Ad Men,” by freshman Bill Patterson. He takes the field of advertising and connects it with sex and subliminal perception. Jimmie Cothran, also a freshman, has written a story on two levels. From the hasty reader’s point of view, it is merely a story dealing with a man’s attempt to keep pace with mechanized society. But “The Machine” has a much deeper meaning for the careful reader — a message that is applicable to modern society. John Chiles, the third freshman, contributed a sketch which he might have written at the conclusion of Rush Week. “How I Achieved Humility” isn’t really what the title indicates. Chiles handles his theme effectively — and appropriately for Davidson.

Double Cuts Follow

The Executive Committee and the Religious Life Committee are busy at work this week answering the question: “Will there be any change in the cut system the first part of next semester?” On Wednesday afternoon, the executive committee met and decided that the double cut system would apply to the first two days of the new semester. Dean Bailey stated that the committee interpreted the three-day break as a holiday and therefore, saw reason for employing this system.

Dr. Staples reported to the DAVIDSONIAN the early part of this week that the Religious Life Committee will meet Monday afternoon, January 19, in order to discuss the anticipated problem of overcrowdedness in Sunday night vespers. As was the case the first Sunday of the fall term, a crowded condition will probably arise at the beginning of the second semester. Such possibilities as entire classes being given free cuts and others will come up for discussion at the meeting Monday afternoon. The plans that this committee formulates at this meeting, however, will apply only to the immediate situation. On February 17, the committee will meet with the Board of Trustees at which time the combined groups will discuss overcrowdedness.

Kuykendall (Continued From Page One)

Question: Which elections will come first this year?

Answer: “Under Body offices, president, conflict, cheerleaders. I also favor the elimination of separate class elections. I think, for instance, that the senior who polls the highest number of votes as senior class representative to the council should be the senior class president. This would eliminate the necessity of having two elections for the same office.”

The Election Board and the Honor Council Committee will constitute the general business of the first council meeting following the mid-term break. An election committee, composed of interested students, has been studying the present system as it exists under the constitution. The findings and proposals of the committee will be introduced to the council. The Election Board is to consist of sixteen men, one representing each social fraternity and four independents from the senior class. These people will devise the schedule of the elections within the present restrictions. The council desires to have board members who are particularly interested in this matter. The Council will also select the five faculty members to serve jointly with it as a nominating committee for the new Honor Council which became a reality in constitutional changes this fall. The Court of Control will come under discussion in the second February meeting. The Freshman Council has recently investigated opinions of the class concerning the court. Its report will be submitted to the council prior to its discussion.Long-Range Plans for the Problem of “Hell” Freezes Over

In a unanimous vote, the Interfraternity Council this week voted unanimously to call the week of fraternity pre-initiation ceremonies “Greek Week.” “Greek Week will be held sometime during the last of February,” stated Vernon Anderson, IFC President. The council voted to send each representative to his fraternity executive committee and president in order to get their ideas. The representatives are then to present the issue to the fraternity at their next meeting for discussion. The IFC will confer at its next meeting to make definite plans for Greek Week.

Last spring, the IFC passed their resolution declaring traditional Hell Week practices permanently abolished and then presented it to the fraternity faculty committee and the entire college faculty for approval. “This leaves the IFC open to propose something to the faculty. It’s left up to us to replace the void.” Anderson stated that he has investigated Greek Weeks of other schools around the country. He also has called on the council representatives to suggest possible projects or activities. Richard Brubaker, Secretary of the IFC, cited projects the ATO’s have carried on in the past during their Help Weeks. Other ideas submitted included a Pledge Field Day, an IFC Sing for the pledges, cleaning up behind the fraternity houses, and landscaping the fraternity court.

The council stressed the importance of competition among pledge classes. A committee was appointed to investigate on-campus projects and bring new ideas before the council. “I think we want one big project with twelve phases or twelve small projects. Dr. McGavock is investigating some projects not pertaining to the campus,” Anderson commented.

President Anderson read the following official statement which the retiring IFC passed last April to clarify their former activities: “In the abolition of ‘Hell Week,’ the Interfraternity Council explicitly forbids all forms of physical and mental harassment commonly associated with that term. Any pre-initiation practice which incurs loss of sleep, physical harm, interruption of school work, personal humiliation or punishment (either private or public), or any generally distasteful practice which jeopardizes the good name of the college or fraternity, is condemned. It is inconsistent with the ideals of organizations dedicated to principles of honor and brotherly affection that they should lend themselves to exhibitionism which discredits not only a single fraternity, but the fraternity system as a whole. Future pre-initiation ceremonies will be of a constructive nature regulated by the IFC. All practices shall be consistent with the above statements, and shall be conducted in accordance with the rulings of the National Fraternity of each chapter as expressed in its constitution or ritual.”

Student Council be made Senior Class President.

Question: Do you favor holding the YMCA elections independently?
Answer: “If in any way removing YMCA elections from Council jurisdiction would injure the YMCA I wouldn't favor it. This question should be left up to the Y officials, and they should make the initial move, not the Student Council.”

Question: Has anything been done in expectation of overflow Vespers crowds the first few weeks next semester?
Answer: “The Religious Life Committee will meet in the near future.”

Question: How is the anti-theft campaign progressing?
Answer: “At the present time theft on the campus is on the decline. This may be just a fluctuation, but we are hoping this is a trend.”

Question: The DAVIDSONIAN understands that there is a possibility of double cuts the first two days of next semester. Do you plan to request the administration to assess single cuts only?
Answer: “Frankly, I haven't thought about it, although I will be glad to look into it.”

Question: Has the Student Council discussed the DAVIDSONIAN’S cry for a system of unlimited cuts?
Answer: “No.”

Question: Do you favor unlimited cuts?
Answer: “A system with certain restrictions.”

Question: There is a movement underway to request the Trustees to provide eleven more football scholarships. Do you favor such a move?
Answer: “Personally, I am in favor of maintaining the present standards of Davidson College. I don’t want to see a big-time football machine set up here. The football program must not set back academic standards. I am not opposed to scholarships to students with need, who live up to standards.”

Question: Would you consider eleven more scholarships as a move toward big-time football?
Answer: “I am not well acquainted enough with the situation to say.”

The new combinations I plan to propose that we elect the four Student Council officers, two vice-presidents, and the secretary-treasurer. Then we would elect the members to the Honor Court. While these elections are going on we propose to hold elections which would not such as voting for FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1959.

Above, hall counselor, Barry Benton (left) and Freshman Dudley Elvery discuss exams. Hall counselors, by their constructive supervision, aid Freshmen in orienting themselves to college life.

Freshman Counselors Must Know Everything

Davidson’s thirteen hall advisors are a group who not only enjoy their work, but also make it easier for freshmen to adapt themselves to college life. The advisors are themselves advised by Dean Bailey, Mr. H. E. White, and particularly Mrs. Moore. Although the advisors occasionally have meetings, such as one held this year to discuss the problem of freshmen on academic probation, most difficulties are discussed privately with Mrs. Moore. “I think that it is very rewarding to be able to notice their gradual adjustment to Davidson life and their faint signs of maturity ever so often,” said Bill Patton, first-floor counselor of Cannon. Laurens Walker, also of Cannon, stated, “Being in the dormitory I feel that I have gotten a lot from being with the freshmen in their acclimation to college life. Also, they will be a link to the college after I become an alumnus.”

The advisors’ work is not primarily one of problem-solving. They are well-oriented college students who can show freshmen much by simply living near them. The present establishment of the hall advisor system is very effective and the advisors with whom we have talked seemed to enjoy the work. “You have to know everything,” explained Bill Patton. “They ask if math class will meet since it is raining, or if they will get a cut in history because the professor is sick. How do I know if history class will meet today?”

Applications for the position are given to Mrs. Moore in the spring and advisors are chosen who qualify scholastically and are considered understanding and capable of working with the new Davidsonians. Mrs. Moore had nothing but praise for the present group, and she is quite pleased with the merits of having hall counselors in the freshmen dormitories. The advisors receive their room free, and in cases of two advisors on one hall, each receives half the cost. The thirteen students who are now hall advisors are John Nix, Laurens Walker, Bill Patton, Barry Benton, Joe Verreault, Bob Avinger, John Huie, George Hart, Smitty Smith, Richard Brubaker, John Kimbirl, Jim Owens, and Bill Whitesell.

Di Kapp Activities Feature Elections

Preparing for the coming semester, the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity has held its spring elections. The officers elected will be installed at the first fraternity meeting of the second semester. Taking charge of the rush program will be Charlie Hunter. Henry Escue will serve as warden; Stuart Nickles, alumni secretary; Bert Keller, chaplain; Ted Dingler, historian. Completing one-year terms will be: Frank Cenegy, pledge-master; Dee Lide, IFC representative; and Jim Yarbrough, president.

For a Prosperous 1959 PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS TRADE WITH CONFIDENCE

Arrow Shirts
Winston Cigarettes
Joe Little Record Shop
Townhouse, Mooresville
Open Kitchen
Coca-Cola
Viceroy Cigarettes
Greyhound
Wilson-Wright’s, Inc.
Salem Cigarettes
Scotties
Tate-Brown, Inc.
Townhouse, Mooresville
Camel Cigarettes
Providence Men's Shop
Archer's Gulf Service
Jackson Cleaners
Parker-Gardner
DiMizio’s

An Appreciation Dinner will be held on Monday evening, January 19, at 5:30 p.m. in the college cafeteria by Slater Food Service Management, operators of the local cafeteria. All holders of College Union meal tickets are invited. “You have to know everything,” explained Bill Patton. The dinner is being presented as a “thank you” affair by the Slater Management for Davidson freshmen and Independents, who eat all of their meals in the college cafeteria. Special guests invited for the dinner include some members of the faculty and administration; the mayor and the city councilmen of Davidson, N.C.; the president of the Piedmont Bank of Davidson; the editor of the local newspaper; the editor of the DAVIDSONIAN; and the regional manager and the regional supervisor of Slater Food Service Management. Mr. M. G. Stephanos, Slater manager of the college cafeteria, has requested that ticket holders attending the dinner wear coats and ties “because of the nature of the affair.”

For peaceful purposes and the benefit of all mankind, NASA directs and implements U.S. research efforts in aeronautics and the exploration of space. The excitement and importance of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration is apparent, we believe, from our mission. Career opportunities at NASA are as unlimited as the scope of the organization itself. NASA, a new research and development agency, utilizes the facilities and staff of the former National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics. NASA needs:

ENGINEERS: Aeronautical, Physics, Electronic, Mechanical, Electrical, Metallurgical, Chemical, Civil, Naval Architects
SCIENTISTS: Astronomers, Physicists, Mathematicians, Chemists, Metallurgists

ARRANGE THROUGH YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE TO MEET THE NASA REPRESENTATIVES (Positions are filled in accordance with Aeronautical Research Scientist Announcement 01B).

NASA
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Langley Research Center
Langley Field, Virginia
Lewis Research Center
Cleveland, Ohio
Ames Research Center
Moffett Field, California
High-Speed Flight Station
Edwards, California