FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1959 _ PAGE THREE THE DAVIDSONIAN | Sports

All That By JIM HAMILTON

Palpitating hearts, gaspings for breath, and aching joints were in evidence more than usual in Monday night’s freshman ball game
with Presbyterian Junior College. It wasn’t because the frosh were feeling the strain of a long, successful season, but because
the referees failed to arrive on time and coaches Tucker and Walthall had to fill in. And alas — youth
and vitality are fleeting things. Only four and a half minutes had elapsed when Tucker sagged to the scorers’ table
and asked dolefully, “How many time outs do the referees get?” Upon receiving the feared negative answer, he turned to
Coach Walthall and suggested, “Tell you what, Jim — you umpire this five minutes and I'll do the next five."

They both stayed on the court however, but tooted their whistles at every possible chance so they could stop and
rest. (Both looked rather sheepish when Jerry Bussel and D. G. Martin fouled out later in the game.) When the
regular refs arrived the small crowd gave them warm applause, but the biggest ovations came from Tucker and Walthall who
were ready to retire. Davidson came out on top so nothing was lost by the substitution, except maybe a few
pounds from appropriate places on the well-fed coaches.

By BOB GREEN

The Wildcat hardwooders travelled to Richmond Wednesday to prepare for the Southern Conference loop tournament. The ’Cats drew the champions
from West Virginia for their first round opponents for the fourth straight year. Coach Tom Scott took a maximum twelve-man
squad including forwards Dave Hollingsworth and Bill Shinn, center Ed Stewart, and guards John Huie and Semi Mintz. Coach Scott
stated that Jim Nuckolls and Joe Markee should see action.

By PETE WYRICK

The Davidson wrestling team will travel next weekend to Charleston, S. C., site of the Southern Conference Wrestling Tournament. Despite
the mediocre record of the team this season, the local grapplers will send several men into the tournament with strong
chances for copping individual honors. The most promising will probably be Westervelt, Gee, Allen, and Porter.

The Wildcat wrestling team was on the road last weekend, journeying to Lexington, Va. where they met V.M.I. on Friday
and to Blacksburg on Saturday for a match with V.P.I. The trip was something short of successful, the Wildcats losing
both matches. V.P.I. was especially strong, having been conference champions for the past two years and deemed likely to capture
the title again this year.

On Wednesday afternoon the Wildcat wrestlers closed out their regular season here in a match with Washington and Lee. It
proved to be a tightly contested match which ended with the ’Cats being edged out by a two-point margin. The
W & L squad managed to compile most of their points by sweeping the lower weight divisions. They were also
greatly aided by a Davidson forfeit in the 130 lb. class. This gave five important points to the visitors. Davidson
managed strongly in the heavier weights with Gee, Thompson, and Porter emerging victorious in their respective classes. These final wins,
however, were not quite sufficient to overcome W & L's margin and the ’Cats dropped their fourth straight match.

Tales from the north drifted southward this week as Davidson wrestlers returned with stories of the men who grapple in
the dens of V.P.I., of this part of the country. “There was one guy named Sherman Vandevender who looked like
a piece of armoured equipment. In fact, they called him ‘The Sherman Tank’ and he looked the part, complete with
black eye and cauliflower ear. One of them was slightly eccentric. He carried a goldfish in a bowl everywhere he
went — even took it to lunch with him and then down to the match. These guys wrestle in a
little jungle under the gym. The place even has padded walls — that must be indicative of something.” But the
slyest comment was simply this: “This place is a great argument for subsidized athletics.”

Keen Track Eligibility Ruling

The Intramural Athletic Council voted this week to continue the policy of ruling ineligible for participation in the intramural track
meet all those who have earned five or more points in varsity track competition. The Council also granted a forfeit
win to the SAE’s in their protested game with the Independents, in which the Independents used an ineligible player. The
forfeit shoved the SAE’s into first place in the league standings.

Sandy Grey announces that senior life saving class will start Monday afternoon at 4 o'clock.

INDIVIDUAL SCORERS

Name | Games | Points | Average
1. Lane, Beta | 8 | 99 | 12.4
2. Boyd, Pi Kapp | 11 | 135 | 12.3
3. Lewis, ATO | 8 | 98 | 12.2
4. Green, KA | 9 | 106 | 11.8
5. McAllister, Phi Gam | 10 | 112 | 11.2
6. Killian, Sigma Chi | 10 | 107 | 10.7
7. Orr, SAE | 11 | 112 | 10.2
8. Denham, Phi Delt | 9 | 91 | 10.1
9. Nash, Pi Kapp | 10 | 99 | 9.9

Flickerball

IN THE SPRING a young man’s fancy turns to spring football practice. Assistant Coach Walthall is here pictured putting the
gridders through a practice session early this week. Practice should end before March 21. (Photo by Rhyne)

Charleston Scene Of Tourney Test

The ’Cats planned to use a zone defense on the fast-moving West Virginians, who are ranked thirteenth nationally. “We are
hoping to slow the game down some by playing a delayed style of ball and using the zone,” Coach Scott
commented. “Our one hope is that they will take us lightly. If we can come up with a good game
we could surprise them,” he added. West Virginia's big gun is junior Jerry West, an All Conference forward again this
year. Coach Scott hoped that the 'Cat’s use of the zone will hold this sharpshooter down some.

TOP THREE

Davidson's 1959 edition had three men who have averaged in the double figures, led by Hollingsworth who finished the season
at 18.6 tallies per game. Mintz and Shinn bucketed averages of 13.6 and 12.7, respectively. Mintz’s 41.4 percentage from the
floor led in that department.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

rules are being, 13. Hart. Si ahi 8 76 revised and codified by mem- 14. Hines "AE 1 103 be
bers of the Council, for use! 15. Pleasants, KA. cn ee | Westervelt,’ SEM! MINTZ, ace Davidson guard, gets off
a driving | layup against Furman. In whipping Furman, the ‘Cats gained | the opening round of the Southern Conference
Tourney. | department. |} 427: points man to he Hollingsworth’s made him the first ‘ttor the 100 '§. C. Meet
Next Week Marn, since Hobbie Cobb played for! the ‘Cats. He also cleared the| By “B” MILLNER Coach George Tucker's
tank The medley relay team also extra effort when it counts. boards for 287 rebounds, aver- men journey to Lexington,
Vir- broke a school record. No matter how we come out, aging 12.4 per game. Mintz ginia next week for
the Coach Tucker was optimistic they’ve done an awful good dropped ten points from his Southern Conference swimming about his
squad’s chances at job.” 1958 record but still averaged meet, which will be held on Lexington, although he said 76.7
percentage from March 5th, 6th, and 7th. The that he expected the Citadel “Our opponents bettered us the charity stripe.
Catfish are fresh from a 51-35 to finish on top. “We'll pick by two points a game on the victory
over South Carolina last up as many first places as any average this season and there Saturday. Durable Tom Hudgins
body,” he stated, “but we'll be were seven games which could set two new school records in hurt by lack
of depth. The Cita- have gone either way that we the 220 and 440 yard freestyle del will beat us
on second and dropped,” Coach Scott com- races against South Carolina. third places if they do beat us.” mented. Although
the 'Cat’s 9-14 rec- Hudgins chopped eight sec- Tucker plans to take only nine ord was the same as last
year's, onds off his previous record men on the trip. Scott feels that he had a much in the 440
and nipped his old “I think Tom Hudgins can better team this season. 220 mark by two seconds. win. the
220, 440, and 1500 freestyles, and Tom Smith has a good chance in the 100 and 200 yard backstrokes. John
Scott will do well in the breaststroke and the sprinters are capable of placing.” Tucker thought that Davidson would have
to battle V.M.I. for second place. Tucker concluded, “The boys always get out a little extra effort when it counts.
No matter how we come out, they’ve done an awful good job.”

The Freshman counterparts of the Catfish recently participated in a Freshman Invitational Tournament at Chapel Hill. The seven swimmers who
made the trip won a total of nine medals. Barry Branch took second in the 50 yard freestyle and won
places in two other events. Chese Hunter won two third places in the backstroke, and Stephan Young placed three times.
Herb Collins took a medal in the 200 yard breaststroke. They were competing against subsidized A.C.C. teams for the most
part with Clemson and Presbyterian College. The Clemson team piled up an impressive score of 1401 while Davidson, led by
Stan Gaines, edged P.C. 1360 to 1355.

Prior to this meet, the 'Cats had already clinched the championship of the Western Carolina Conference. There are several matches
remaining, but it will be impossible for any of the other teams to equal Davidson's 6-0 record. Although the conference
championship was easily taken, Captain Mitchell was pessimistic about the possibility of winning the Southern Conference meet which will be
held on March 6 at the University of West Virginia. “When we face teams like the Citadel, V.M.I., V.P.I., and
West Virginia,” Captain Mitchell stated, “the best we can hope for is fifth place against that competition, and that isn’t
bad.”

CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1800 W. MOOREHEAD ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

By BILL GODWIN The Phi Gams whipped the ATO’s and the Betas this week to clinch a tie for first
place. The Phi Delts remained in the running with a victory over the Kappa Sigs Tuesday night. Bob Thompson netted
16 points to give the Phi Gams a 55-40 margin Monday night. Tuesday they topped the Betas 53-37. The Phi
Delts won, 47-37 on Monday. The only other game played saw the SPE’s nick the Sigma Nus, 38-30.

Davidson’s Inter-fraternity Track Meet begins Monday at 4 p.m. with trials in six events: shotput, broad jump, discus throw, 100-yd.
dash and 120-yd. low hurdles. Coach Heath Whittle announced that each fraternity should enter two men. The other event is
the four-man 440-yd. relay. Starting at 4 o'clock on Wednesday afternoon, all finals will be held with events in the
above order. Participants must report for their respective events immediately.

Inter-fraternity volleyball action will get underway Monday, March 9, and will continue for about three weeks.

Inter-Fraternity Standings BASKETBALL Won Lost Phi Gams 11 1 Phi Delts 10 1 SAE’s 9 1 Kappa Sigs 6 4
Pi Kapps 6 4 ATO’s 5 6 KA's 5 6 Beta 6 6 Ind. 5 6 Sigma Chis 4 6
Pikas 3 8 SPE’s 2 9 Sigma Nus 0 8

HANDBALL Won Lost ATO's 8 1 Betas 8 1 SAE’s 8 1

SPENCER ERNEST HEMINGWAY’S PULITZER AND NOBEL PRIZE-WINNING STORY IN WARNERCOLOR

---

(Note: Some parts of the text were unclear or seemed to be misinterpreted by the OCR software, but I have
done my best to preserve the original meaning and punctuation.)
