‘Cats Ready For Catawba (See Page Three)

VOL. XLVI

Davidson Cadets Sweep Ft. Bragg Honors Again

By DICK SMITH
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

Davidson College, for the second time in as many years, was named as the school having the best cadet contingent
of the twenty-seven colleges and universities from North Carolina, Ohio, and New York represented at the 1959 ROTC Summer Camp
held at Fort Bragg this summer. The group of seventy Davidson cadets attending the camp were led in achieving this
honor by Bob Croom of Maxton, who was selected as the “Best Cadet” of the 1443 who attended the six-week
camp. This is also the second straight year that the “Best Cadet” designation has gone to a Davidson student.

The “Best College” award was made on the basis of comparing individual cadet grades and the averages of the twenty-seven
schools. Special emphasis was placed on individual accomplishments, with the remainder of the grade coming from written and practical examinations.
One important factor was the number of cadets winning the daily “Colonel's Orderly” competition. One cadet is chosen each night
from the thirty-six forming the camp interior guard. He is designated “Colonel's Orderly”, is relieved of walking his daily tours.
Davidson, with seven such winners, had more than any other school represented at Bragg. Winning the competition on their respective
days were Joe Dulaney, Milton Gee, George Hart, Woody Morcock, Henry Otten, Dick Smith, and Bob Croom.

The best cadets in each platoon were picked on the basis of their camp grades, their “Buddy” ratings, and their
commander’s evaluation. Chosen as best men in their respective platoons were Bob Avinger, Milton Gee, Tom Ridenhour, Don Coffey, and
Croom. Coffey and Croom were chosen best men in their company. No other institution had more than one cadet given
this distinction.

Croom will head the Davidson Cadet Brigade this year. He has chosen Coffey and Gee as his Battle Group commanders.

FUNDS EXCEED $1,100,000
College Passes Goal For Dana Challenge

Davidson has successfully completed raising $1,100,000 for the Dana Challenge Program, President D. Grier Martin unexpectedly announced to the student
body and faculty at the opening chapel convocation yesterday. President Martin revealed that through a late summer drive $708,438 has
now been tabulated in gifts and pledges to qualify the college for the $400,000 conditional grant from the Charles A.
Dana Foundation.

The Dana Challenge Fund was initiated to finance the construction of the new $700,000 Dana Science Laboratories and the $400,000
dormitory now being constructed. Two particular grants this summer made the successful completion possible. Both grants were for $25,000 and
both were conditional just as the original Dana gift. The Kresge Foundation of Detroit and an undisclosed Atlanta foundation were
the contributors.

A total of 394 gifts and subscriptions are included in the $708,438 sum raised to meet the Challenge. The program
was a limited special gift solicitation with donations coming from alumni, parents, friends, corporations, and foundations. Almost 100 percent of
the faculty, trustees, and board of visitors made personal contributions according to a final report from Dr. Monroe T. Gilmour,
Charlotte, and Charles F. Myers, Jr., Greensboro, national co-chairman. Dr. W. G. McGavock headed the faculty staff committee for the
program and key leaders in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg regional phase of the drive included Addison H. Reese, J. Caldwell McDonald, William
B. McGuire, Don Davidson, Jr., Dennis E. Myers, Jr., and Samuel W. Smith.

Mr. Charles A. Dana, whose gift initiated the College’s present expansion program, will visit Davidson on October 13-14, President D.
Grier Martin announced today. Mr. Dana will be accompanied by the trustees of the Dana Foundation. The group will be
making a tour of the educational institutions to which the foundation has made grants. Other stops will include Queens College,
Stetson Law School in Florida, and the Berry School in Rome, Georgia. Mr. Dana has made several visits to the
Davidson campus since his $400,000 grant in 1958. He was on hand for the groundbreaking ceremonies for the Dana Science
Laboratories last fall.

Three members of the class of ‘63 walk toward Chambers building during the busy Orientation-Rush Week.

Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

Professors Review The Status-Seekers (See Page Two)

Lab, Dorm Construction Proceeds On Schedule

Construction on Davidson's two new buildings, the Dana Science Laboratories and the new Dormitory, is proceeding on schedule, according to
Mr. R. R. Currie, Business Manager for the College. The Building is expected to be complete for occupancy on February
1.

By BOB BRADFORD
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Tomorrow will find 258 freshmen facing the important issue of deciding to which fraternity they will swear their allegiance. This
marks the culmination of a nine-day orientation period in which the freshmen have encountered academic placement testing, conferences, physical examinations,
assemblies, and the traditional dance with the Queens College freshmen. A twenty-man committee of upperclassmen under the direction of freshmen
adviser Bill Whitesell guided the newcomers through their first week. These men and others instructed the class of '63 in
the history and organization of the college and the role of each student in upholding her tradition.

On Saturday, the Dean of Students, Dr. John Bailey, and Student Body President Dee Green spoke to the assembled freshmen
on the “Government of the College.” In the afternoon, Colonel William L. Adams presented the topic of military training to
the group, and a panel presentation of fraternities followed. Early Saturday chartered busses took the entire class of '63 to
Queens College in Charlotte for their first touch of college social life. This dance is an annual affair for the
two nearby schools.

During the busy days of orientation, Tuesday, September 15, the incoming students heard Dr. George Staples, College Chaplain, and David
Robinson, President of the YMCA, speak on the religious life at Davidson and the function of the YMCA. Also, time
was allotted to the discussion of the business side of the college and physical education and athletics at Davidson. Classes
began Wednesday morning for all students. Monday through Friday nights of this week the freshmen attended rush parties given by
the individual fraternities on Patterson Fraternity Court. Tonight is the final night of visiting, as the issuance of fraternity bids
will take place in the morning. Any time between three and four-thirty tomorrow afternoon a rushee may accept a fraternity
bid by “taking the long walk” to the fraternity of his choice.

Student leaders for the Orientation period included: Rick Aderhold, Dave Atchison, Bob Avinger, Jim Bootle, Gus Burgdorf, Dan Clemmer, Jim
Earnhardt, Milton Gee, Greg Grana, Dee Green, John Huie, Pete Kellogg, Bob Livingston, Stuart Nickles, Tom Price, David Robinson, Henry
Shue, Verner Stanley, Joe Verreault, and Robert A. Wilson.

Packard Will Visit For Book

The Book-of-the-Semester Program promises to be the biggest project to hit the campus on October 21 and 22.Over 70 other
men. “This most encouraging result has been achieved quickly over the past months by a hard-working team of over 200
Davidson alumni, parents, and friends. We wish to express our gratitude to all who aided in the drive,” said President
Martin. Mr. Dana made his $400,000 gift last April, with the stipulation that the college raise $700,000 to go with
it for the construction of the science building and a dorm to make the existing facilities adequate for a student
body of 1,000. The gift was the largest ever given to Davidson by a living person.

The college began its drive to raise the challenge in April, following the announcement of the gift. By January 1,
the first day of the second semester, the outer shell of the building was completed. Terrazzo flooring for the hallways
was laid several weeks ago, and work is now underway on the extensive electrical system for the Physics Department. Landscaping
around Dana Laboratories will be finished in the spring, and the college will fill in around the foundation and plant
grass when the interior work is finished. The first step in the expansion of the science facilities will be complete.

The second step, remodeling of the Martin Science Building for use by the Chemistry Department, will begin as soon as
the Biology Department is moved. Work on this will require most of the second semester, according to the schedule.

The new dormitory, third largest in Charles A. Dana's challenge to the school, is now under construction. Work began in
July and should be finished by next July. This new dormitory, with its modern facilities, will provide space for 124
students. Nine hundred forty-eight students will then have rooms in Davidson's seven dormitories.

“Several changes in original specifications have been found necessary in view of the low bids that exceeded expectations,” said Mr.
Currie. Plans still call for two bathrooms and a luggage-storage room on each of the four floors in the dormitory.

Court Conditioning

The Davidson Maintenance Department both made improvements and carried out routine upkeep on the Patterson Fraternity Court during the summer
months. R. A. Currie, College Business Manager, reports that floors have been refinished, lawns regraded and reseeded, garbage racks installed,
and sliding doors repaired, in addition to routine maintenance.

All three of the construction and renovation plans initiated by Mr. Dana are being financed by his gift and the
College's Challenge Fund.

Mrs. Davis Joins Library Staff

Mrs. Davis has returned to her home in Spencer and will reside with her sister. Mrs. Davis has had many
years of library experience since she majored in library science at Women’s College. Her longest period of service has been
at Harding High School in Charlotte, where she organized the library in 1938-39 and returned to serve as head librarian
some years later. Coming here after serving as Iredell County librarian in Statesville, Mrs. Davis will be in charge of
reference and circulation.

Garbage racks were installed behind all houses and unsatisfactory tracks and rollers on Theta Pi and Sigma Chi houses. Similar
replacements will be made in other houses during Christmas recess. Sliding doors have been experimentally replaced at the Beta house.

October 21, Vance Packard

A booklet will contain selections from other texts, each dealing with some aspect of the subject of the class. Plans
are also being made to have a brief television series on the selected book. This series will be climaxed by
the TV appearance of Vance Packard.

CLASSROOM VISITS

While on the Davidson campus, Mr. Packard will be engaged in numerous activities. An important part of his visit will
be attending classes to be quizzed by students. On the night of October 21, Mr. Packard will make a short
statement on his book before facing a panel composed of prominent citizens of this portion of the state. There will
be a reception and question period following the formal program in Chambers Auditorium.

Special Vespers Set For Freshmen

Freshmen will attend separate Vespers services in Chambers Auditorium for the first three weeks of this semester. These services for
freshmen have been planned in an attempt to avoid overcrowded conditions in the College Church at the period when heavy
attendance is expected. Last fall, overflow crowds caused the Executive Committee of the faculty to exempt certain classes from attendance
at the peak period as an emergency measure. It is the hope that this plan will alleviate the problem.

Beginning October 11, the freshmen will join the rest of the student body,” Staples explained. This Sunday, Dr. Samuel E.
Newell, pastor of the college church, will speak to the upperclassmen. A graduate of Davidson, Dr. Newell was formerly Professor
of English at Georgia Tech and later graduated from Union Seminary in Richmond. At the Davidson commencement in June of
this year, Dr. Newell was presented the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity.
