FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1959

Perambulation May

THE DAVIDSONIAN

19 Seniors Receive Graduate Stipends

Bailey McGeachy
Crawford Minter
H Gillespie Purcell
Horten Robinson
Huftord Schenck
Johnston

Nineteen Davidson seniors have received scholarships and fellowships for study during the next academic year. These students entered their respective
competitions by nomination from the faculty committee on graduate scholarships. The remaining nine made application directly to the departments of
their interest.

Payton And Dillard
(Continued From Page One)
In closing, Payton commented:

If you are a member of the Davidson College student body and are eligible to have a car on campus,
yet don’t, you are in the minority. Fifty-five percent of the student body, excluding the Freshmen, have an automobile at
Davidson. Figures aren't available as to the exact number of cars which were at Davidson in past years, but it
is easily noted that the number has been growing.

DAVIDSONIAN Rates Tops Again

John Kuykendall, Sam Clarke, Bill Huntley, Julian Aldridge, Ervin Duggan, and Linton Wray. Absent from the picture, Jerry Cole.

Twelve cadets of the ROTC Brigade received awards last Tuesday for their outstanding performances. The cadets honored are (left to
right) Bob Croome, Jim Bootle, Bob Waugh, Dabney Stuart, Bill Deane, and others.

ROTC Honors Twelve In Awards Day

The Davidson College ROTC Cadet Brigade held its annual Awards Day Parade at drill on May 5. The following cadets
received recognition for their accomplishments in the fields of leadership, performance of duty, and citizenship during the school year 1958-59.
President D. G. Martin presented Cadet First Colonel Sam Clarke the Department of the Army Superior Cadet Ribbon for Meritorious
Leadership Achievement. Cadet Master Sergeant Robert D. Croom, III, was the recipient of the Department of the Army Superior Cadet
Ribbon for his outstanding performance of duty as an MS II Cadet. Cadet Croom was awarded the Superior Cadet Ribbon
as an MS II Cadet for the year 1957-58. Cadet Corporal James C. Bootle received the award as the outstanding
MS II Cadet, and Cadet Private Robert A. Waugh received the Department of the Army Ribbon for outstanding performance of
duty as an MS I Cadet.

Professor Henry E. Fulcher presented Cadet Colonel John W. Kuykendall with the Henry E. Fulcher, Jr. Medal for his exemplary
spirit of service and outstanding contributions in the field of citizenship. Cadet Captain William M. Huntley was awarded the William
J. Martin, Jr. Medal for his outstanding performance of duty as Company Commander of Company C, 1st Battle Group. Mr.
Stacks, Commander of Post 86, American Legion, presented this award to Captain Huntley. Mr. Rush Wilson, president of the Davidson
Lion’s Club, presented Cadet Lieutenant Julian M. Aldridge, Jr. with the Davidson College ROTC Best Platoon Leader Medal for his
outstanding performance of duty as Platoon Leader of the 2nd Platoon of the Mortar Battery, 1st Battle Group. Cadet Master
Sergeant Walker D. Stuart was awarded the Association of the United States Medal for having contributed materially, through his leadership
as an MS III Cadet, to advancing the standing of the Cadet Brigade. Major Berle K. Hufford, Commandant of Cadets,
presented this award to Cadet Sergeant Stuart. Cadet Sergeant Jerry L. Cole was awarded the Daniel Woods Medal for having
demonstrated, as an MS III Cadet, outstanding qualities of leadership. Dean J. C. Bailey presented Cadet Sergeant William F. Deane
the Sons of the American Revolution Medal for having been selected the outstanding Honor Guard Cadet. The American Revolution Cadet
was awarded to Cadet Corporal Ervin S. Duggan. The Reverend Mr. Shelton Hutchison, Commander of the North Carolina Department of
the American Legion, presented Cadet Private Harvey L. Wray the American Legion Medal for having demonstrated, as an MS I
Cadet, outstanding qualities of leadership.

Bremer Fills Posts For 1960 Annual

Editor Chris Bremer this week announced the staff for next year’s Quips and Cranks. Important posts went to Pete O.
Sterling who will serve as Assistant to the Editor, and to Sanders Dallas who will serve as Business Manager. The
sub-editors for the various sections next year are as follows: Pete Wyrick, Activities Section; Ben Sparks and Bill Deane, Fraternity
Section; Julian Pleasants, Sports Section; Jerry Jacques, Faculty and Administration; and Bob Gordon, the Honor Section. The editors for the
class sections will be John Glenn, Senior Section; Bob Young, Junior Section; and Bob Barringer, Sophomore Section. Editor Bremer stated
that he had completed filling his main posts, but that there might be other appointments later. Work has already begun
on the general layout and Editor Bremer feels that because of the staff’s previous experience, it will do a good
job on the annual.

Gen. Brooks Visits Davidson Campus

Brig. Gen. Grady S. Brooks, Davidson class of 1928, will visit the campus on May 30 to give the address
at the annual Commissioning Exercises. Gen. Brooks was commissioned into the U. S. Army Reserve and spent four years active
duty in the Artillery during World War II. Over the course of his career, he has received the Legion of
Merit award, the Bronze Star Medal, the Purple Heart, the Italian Cross of Military Valor, and the French Croix de
Guerre. At the present time, he is an executive with the Lyman Printing and Finishing Company of Lyman, S. C.
The Commissioning Exercises will begin at 9:45 a.m., May 30. Seventy-two cadets from the class of 1959 are to be
commissioned eventually, three of whom will accept Regular Army commissions. Sixty-three cadets will receive their bars at the May exercises.
In addition to the military activities of the day, an alumni luncheon and a dedication service for the new library
wing are also scheduled. Music will be provided by the 440th Army Band from the XVIII Airborne Corps.

Davidson Enrollment Will Continue Static

F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar and Director of Admissions, announced Wednesday, May 8, that 258 students are now planning to enter
the Freshman Class at Davidson next September. This figure represents an increase of only one more than the 257 students
enrolled in the 1958-59 Freshman Class. Hengeveld added that the figure of 258 is only tentative. It represents the number
of students who had accepted their letters of admission and paid their advance tuition prior to the deadline. The school
expects some of these students to change their registration before September. The Admissions Board had planned to accept a class
of approximately 250 next year. This year, well over a thousand boys applied for admission, about 875 completing their applications
in full. Of this number, 750 met completely the minimum requirements. Hengeveld stated that “last year the Admissions Board sent
out letters of admission to 497 students, 257 of whom accepted. This year in view of the early responses to
their letters, the board foresaw that a higher percentage of boys were accepting their offers of admission and therefore sent
out fewer letters.” He added that the admissions board was able to fill its quota for the Freshman class for
next year although about 100 fewer students were accepted by the school.

The tentative figures for next year’s enrollment are: 660 students from the present student body, 258 students in the Freshman
class, and the nine foreign students brought to Davidson by the Richardson Foundation. This total of 927 does not include
the number of students incoming who will change their minds between now and next September. “The registration board is looking
for 17 withdrawals to bring next year’s enrollment down to 910.” Concerning future plans about admissions, Hengeveld said, “There is
a slightly increased enrollment planned for 1960, with the completion of the new dormitory and the new science building.” He
added in closing, “But I do feel that we should particularly emphasize school spirit among the classes. This is something
that is lacking among the present student body and the best place to solve the problem is in the freshmen
class. Another thing that will be emphasized is the speaking to upperclassmen and faculty. I also feel that the delinquent
freshmen should at least be recognized in chapel.”

ROCKEFELLER FELLOWSHIP

Two Davidson students received Rockefeller Brothers Theological Fellowships: John Kuykendall will study at Union Seminary in Richmond, and Ed Stevens,
the other recipient, plans post-graduate work at Harvard Divinity School. Davidson is now tied with Princeton University for third place
in the number of these awards received. Charles Chastain, Walter O’Briant, and Edward E. Wilson will use Woodrow Wilson Fellowships
for graduate study next year. A Danforth Fellowship was also offered to Walter O’Briant who declined it. Laurens Walker will
attend The University of London for one year with a Rotary Fellowship. There are four Davidson seniors preparing for a
teaching vocation who were awarded Southern University Teaching Career Fellowships. Chastain will use this aid in study at the University
of North Carolina, Walter O’Briant at Emory, and Edward E. Wilson at Duke. James Dabbs declined his fellowship.

DEPARTMENTAL AWARDS

One of ten recipients of departmental awards was James Dabbs who will study in psychology at Yale University. Charles Daughtery
plans graduate work in international relations with a fellowship fromthe University of Denver. David Long has a scholarship in political
science from U.N.C. Peter Morisett will prepare for a teaching career in chemistry with a fellowship from the University of
Florida. John Renfro and Ned Austell received graduate scholarships in business from UNC. James A. Ellis will enter the University
of South Carolina with a scholarship to study economics. Two students will take assistantships for the coming year. William W.
Babcock will become an assistant in the Mathematics Department at Tulane University and Ud Sill will enter the Do. lop
Department at Dus. Sik.

Housing Fee (Continued From Page One)

return to the Cridwriea Fund. The fee would vary from year to year depending on the number of fraternity members
and on any changes in the actual costs of depreciation, maintenance, insurance, and other expenses directly chargeable to the project.

3. It was estimated that if the cost of the project were $360,000 the housing fee would be $40.00 per
year for each member.

4. The College agreed to use the $50,000 Patterson gift to reduce the cost figure used in the computation of
the Fraternity Housing Fee.

5. The College agreed to reduce the housing fee whenever the net income to the Endowment Fund equaled or exceeded
5%, and to keep the average fee below this level.

6. The money used for this investment could have been invested in safe commercial real estate leases or mortgages paying
a net return of 5% to 6%. Less than 5% of the endowment of the college is invested in government
bonds.

The actual cost of the en-

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

While enjoying our Famous PIZZA and SPAGHETTI in a Romantic Italian Atmosphere.

Charles

newspaper. ed on the recent violence in Henderson, N. C., as resulting from importation of people from Virginia and South
Carolina to replace workers who, until the November 17, 1958 strike, had spent many years

the Associated Collegiate Press. The award was given for the issues of the DAVIDSONIAN published during the first semester of
this year. The rating was awarded after a comparison with other papers in Davidson’s classification.

For the fifth consecutive semester the DAVIDSONIAN has been awarded an All-American rating by the Associated Collegiate Press. The DAVIDSONIAN
was especially commended for its editorial page. The judge called the editorials “short and punchy,” and the content was commended
to be “among the best I've seen.” The judge also praised the DAVIDSONIAN’S features, sport coverage, make-up, and the variety
and excellence of its news coverage.

Former DAVIDSONIAN Editor Laurens Walker who led the paper during the award-winning period was admittedly proud of the high rating.
“However,” he said, “most of the credit goes to my associates on the paper this year. They were the ones
who really made every phase of the DAVIDSONIAN tops.” Walker also expressed confidence that future DAVIDSONIANS will continue to attain
the honor of being an

a remainder of $420,000 to be used in the computation of the fee. This was an increase of $60,000 above
the original estimate and was largely due to improvements made in the plans for the houses, such as stainless steel
sinks and countertops, brick walks, better paneling, better parking areas, etc.

This increase of 17% in the cost of the project resulted in a 15% increase in the housing fee from
an estimate of $40.00 to the $46.00 established for the 1959-60 college year. It is entirely possible that reductions in
the housing fee may be possible if the usefulness of the houses continues after a substantial part of the cost
has been depreciated. On the other hand, if wear and tear, obsolescence, or other factors make necessary major changes, additions,
or replacement of the houses, it is likely that it will not be possible to reduce the fee very much.

The investment of almost half a million dollars in such a project has been considered by national fraternities and by
other colleges as an unusual vote of confidence by Davidson College in its excellent fraternity system.

You can reproduce the experiment. It’s easy as the discovery proceeds first, you will notice (Yes, you can do it
in the bathtub.) Assuming that you have first visited your friendly tobacconist, simply light your first Winston and smoke it.
Reasoning backwards, flavor, in the class of fresh coffee or of bread baking. Obviously, such a delightful flavor cannot come
from the filter. Therefore, it’s what’s up front that counts: Winston's Filter-Blend. The tobaccos are selected for flavor and mildness,
then specially processed for filter smoking. This extra step is the real difference between Winston and all other filter cigarettes.
Besides, it’s why Winston is America’s best-selling filter cigarette.

conclusion, “The school enrollment will increase to its maximum only when the necessary classrooms, dormitory space, and faculty strength are
available.”

The Registrar noted that the

gestions Gee stated that he was in favor of letting the period of regulations terminate by the end of October.
He did not care to comment on the other points at the moment.

REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

remaining applications on a waiting list.”
