Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1959

Dogwood, Driftwood, Deadwood

It’s almost time for President Dee Green to plant his dogwoods, and we want to wish him the best of
luck with them. In case some don’t remember, dogwood is the kind of student government we're going to have, not
driftwood or deadwood.

Some people around here don't give the dogwood much of a chance to live, especially the Student Council dogwood which
up until now has thrived. Some think that the Honor Court dogwood will contribute to its decay. There has been
much discussion lately concerning the status and relationship of the two. Many contend that in a few years the Council
will be an honorary body with no vital functions.

President Green told the DAVIDSONIAN several weeks ago that he hoped the two would be “separate and equal” bodies. Because
of their different memberships we assume that they will function as separate bodies. We are not so sure, however, that
they will flourish equally over the years.

Of course, it’s our hope that the Court is the honorary body. If they never had to try a case
everyone would be happy. But in case they do their functions are clearly outlined. The Council, from our viewpoint, is
in more danger of dying from lack of nourishment. President Dee is going to have to lead in the search
for things to do. He’s going to have to find plant food that will appeal not only to the Council,
but to the entire student body.

He will not find this mass appeal in membership in national organizations such as the National Student Association, nor other
such far removed projects. The Student Council is going to have to concern itself with affairs which concern the average
student.

The major problem is one of trying to bridge the gaps between students, faculty and administration. But even the search
for answers and solutions to this rather abstract problem can become bogged down and sink from the student’s sight.

In order to reassure a budding Council, President Dee is going to have to initiate action to relieve basic, on-the-surface
student problems. The drinking question has never been adequately answered. A step in this direction would evoke much student interest
and appreciation. There is still the matter of campus theft which must be eliminated. Although they have been greatly improved
this year, campus elections still reek of apathy and indifference on basic issues. Another problem which will become more apparent
next year is that of adequate student parking facilities.

Cooperation in solving such problems of student convenience will be more popular than all the resolutions and recommendations passed in
recent years. What it all amounts to is this: the Council is going to have to come down to the
student level. It is going to have to show results we can see around us, not merely on paper. The
Council is going to have to roll up its sleeves and work hard to make that dogwood flourish, but if
it chooses this course of action, by next spring we may see some real blossoms.

E.M.A.

Memo To Faculty: It's Spring

The incapacitation of John Foster Dulles, the impending resignation of Konrad Adenauer are the signs of history. The day of
the unbending, resolute old man is setting. The day of the little man has surely come. It came when David
Niven, and not John Wayne, won the Academy Award.

Faculty members would do well to heed the signs. Ease up.

R.E.L.

You're Invited...

We are sure that one of President Martin’s warmest memories is that of the student body, gathered en masse, as
he emerged from Chambers Building last Spring as the school’s new president. It was a rather unexpected icing for what
must have been for him a very thrilling day.

We think that it would be a shame if an even larger and more enthusiastic student contingent did not attend
his Inauguration on April 22. The faculty obviously did not suspend classes on that day to expedite a mass exodus
of students in madras shorts and straw hats (an idea which under other circumstances has great merit.)

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF __. Jim Hamilton
ASSISTANT EDITOR __. Bob Livingston
BUSINESS MANAGER __. Dick Smith
Associate Editor __. Dave Gillis
Editorial Assistant __. David Jordan
Managing Editors __. Ervin Duggan, Bob Moore
Sports Editor __. B. Millner
News Editor __. Tom Colvin
Feature Editor __. Charles Rose

Elaborate plans have been made for the big day. Over two hundred-fifty schools will be represented. This is our chance
to show these schools how proud we are of our new President. It is our chance to pay a much
deserved tribute to a man who has become an integral part of student life, rather than divorcing himself from it.

E.M.A.

End Of An Era

The cry of absentee ownership is harsh in the South. We observe with regret the economic pressures that are forcing
consolidation of the small newspapers of a city to alien interests. The latest victim of this trend is the Charlotte
News. Its sale ends the independent history of one of our section’s most respected journals.

The strength of a paper lies partly in its total involvement in the local situation. The Charlotte News demonstrated this,
and served also as the school of many able journalists, among which W. J. Cash, Harry Ashmore, and Burke Davis.
It is fortunate that the Knight organization absorbed the News. It has demonstrated a desire to emphasize quality at every
level in the Charlotte Observer.

R.E.L.

Ed Armfield __. Dan Clemmer
Redding Starling __. Charlie Rowe
Advertising Manager __. Albert McClure Jr.
Circulation Mgr. __. Greg Grana
Ass’t. Business Manager __. Assignments Editor
Copy Editor __. Cartoonists

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 8, 1879.

Dogwood Planting . . . by John Starling

CHANGE BRINGS CHALLENGE

Council Now Able To Venture Into New Areas, Says Green

As the Student Council of 1959-60 takes the reins of Davidson College student government, it is faced with a big
challenge which will offer it a chance to venture into areas which Student Councils in the past have not had
the opportunity to explore fully. With the creation of the Honor Court, the Council is relieved of the very important
and time-consuming judicial functions with which previous Councils have been concerned.

COOPERATION NEEDED

I feel that we now have the opportunity to work more closely with the faculty and with the student body
as a whole to effect a greater cohesiveness between these two groups. I think that my proposal to have some
of next year’s Council meetings in the fraternity houses will create an interest in the student body that has heretofore
been woefully lacking. With the cooperation of the fraternities I believe that both the Council and the Davidson student will
be able to benefit greatly from a closer personal relationship. I also plan to try to have several supper meetings
with interested members of the faculty to create a closer tie in this area.

BIG WORK AHEAD

We have a great many important issues to work on right away. Among these are the implementation of the Honor
Court, an evaluation of the recent elections changes, the problem of the Court of Control, and the appointment of cheerleaders
for next year. Next year’s Council is faced with a real challenge in trying to match the high standard of
accomplishment set by John Kuykendall and his Council this year. With a full realization of the responsibility with which we
are faced, we, the Student Council of 1959-60, look forward with both humility and anticipation to serving the Davidson College
student body next year. With your help and suggestions we look forward to a successful and rewarding year.

By DEE GREEN

ALL STUDY ALMANACS

Big Day Nears; College Bowl Contenders Are Hard At Work

By ERVIN DUGGAN Davidsonian Managing Editor

Davidson's four contenders for the College Bowl crown—two weeks away from their nationwide television appearance—are hard at work. “We're all
studying different almanacs," said team captain Bobby Livingston this week, “plus reading Time magazine and the Sunday New York Times.”every
week.” In addition, the team members individually have selected informational fields outside their major academic areas for intensive study before
the quiz competition on April 19. Charles Chastain, senior philosophy major, is training in science. He is under the tutelage
of Professor Gallent of the Chemistry Department. He is also reviewing material in history and current events. Livingston, an English
major, has begun reading and studying with faculty members in psychology and economics. History major Laurens Walker will cover “miscellaneous
knowledge,” emphasizing sports and current events, while Frank PEANUTS fl psc HAT RIC HELP S54 b ractevamar py graphy. The
Davidson team will make its initial television appearance in an interview on WBTV's “Digest” this Sunday at 4:45 p.m. The
“Digest” interview will immediately precede this week's College Bowl Quiz, in which Barnard College’s champion all-girl team will meet a
team from the University of Minnesota. One week later, on April 19, the four Davidson hopefuls will journey either to
New York (if Barnard wins again) or to Minneapolis-St. Paul (if this week's challengers win). There the four top scholars
will attempt to bring the championship, the next week's program, and a $1500 scholarship back to Davidson College. The CBS
College Bowl, only a few months old, has already won a viewer-rating which is estimated at ten million, making it
one of the most popular Sunday afternoon programs. It occupies what is known in the television industry as “prime viewing
time” — a coveted vision schedule. How hopeful is the team? No one would commit himself, but all seemed eager
to see the Barnard team, now moving into its third contest, defeated by Minnesota. “New York is a good town,”
said one, “but I’ve heard that there are some nice parks and things in Minneapolis.” Other students on the campus,
asked their opinions on the outlook for Davidson's team, were generally more willing to Alex Porter: “I think Davidson will
lose . . . I'd hate to be the one that got beat by a girl, though.” Tom Kernan: “Who
can tell what will happen if our Southern gentlemen meet Yankee women on the program? The important thing to remember
is this: it’s not whether you win or lose that counts — it’s whether you bring back the $1500.” Joe
Eifort: “Well, it’s publicity for the college, be it good or bad. And this college needs publicity—be it good or
bad.” WHAT CAN I DO ABOUT THIS? ANA rAd 7, weer 5 CAS tae, TOIL AND TROUBLE Writer Comments On
German Crisis By JOHN STONE I don’t look for much change at present in the German situation brought about by
Konrad Adenauer’s resignation. The venerable Chancellor will be, in all probability, at the summit conference this summer. What this means
for later on— it’s too early to tell. The Christian Democrats remain in control of the government until the next
elections in 1961. Ludwig Erhard, Adenauer’s probable successor, is believed to be a little more friendly toward the English and
perhaps a little less so toward the French. Adenauer has been openly dedicated to the construction of modern West Germany,
and has been a staunch supporter of Western policy; but then, so has Erhard. ARTIFICIAL DIVISION The situation in Germany
is one of artificial division of a composite ethnic group. This has created nothing but international headache ever since the
straining of East-West relations around 1948, and the end is not yet in sight. Any hope for a real reunification
of Germany anytime soon is more than likely to be disappointed. At present, the crisis centers around Berlin. Tensions mounted
after last November 27, but now appear to be receding in the face of the planned summit conference. The details
of the crisis are well known; however, they are not, in my opinion, the crux of the matter. BERLIN: A
PAWN Berlin is one of the pawns in the game of power politics being played by the members of the
two power blocs, represented by NATO and the Warsaw Pact. The Russians have stated their case, and we, ours. A
conference has been called, signaling a prestige victory for the Communist bloc, who originally demanded it. Whether that victory will
be permanent depends upon the outcome of this summer’s conference. Conferences of this nature have been known to alter, or
even reverse, decisions. WAR OUTLOOK I don’t look for a war over the Berlin question, at least not immediately. At
this time, neither side has anything to gain or lose which is worth total war. Meanwhile, keep your eye on
the Middle East. Developments there may come to a head at any time, and the prize that goes to the
winner is control of 63% of the world’s total oil reserves. SELMA AND GRUNDY Selma: Some Tips For The “College
Bowl” Team (The writers of this column will remain unknown until the editors are able to persuade them to emerge
from anonymity. This first offering is by the male member of the pair, assisted somewhat by his attractive collaborator, Selma.
The Editors) Someone propositioned us the other day about writing a column. “How?” we replied, seeing through his tactful approach,
“Individually or separately?” He insisted, though, so we're doing it together; she's doing the nouns and adjectives and I’m doing
the verbs. We collaborate on words under five letters. Selma didn’t make the College Bowl panel, but she has a
lot of constructive ideas on how to give America a true picture of the real Davidson gentleman. Passing over such
obvious things as clothing, appearance and sophistication, we'll slice right into the meat of the matter and examine some intangibles
that a casual visitor to the college would notice. First, panel, exchange little pleasantries with everyone. When introduced, smile and
say “Hi!” Davidson is a friendly place. Defer to the other panelists with a coy smile and a standard “No,
you go ahead.” Refer constantly to your Davidson background; after all, your two years of general education give you an
obvious advantage in answering superficial questions. You men know more about Leviticus than Moses or his immediate superior ever knew.
Let the nation know Davidson's position on all the big issues. If a Negro should appear on the opposing panel,
a discreetly placed handkerchief to the nose or a tactful team walkout should serve to demonstrate our proud, intelligent stand
and preserve our integrity in the public eye. After all, it isn't whether you win or lose . . .
How badly do we need new scholarships anyway? Don’t ask us, man... . just don’t ask. Freedom of the press
is evidently dead in Charlotte; the News and the Observer have virtually combined. Let’s be thankful we still have the
basic freedoms here at Davidson. Think of the suppression of thought that would result if the DAVIDSONIAN, Scripts and Pranks,
and Quips and Cranks should combine. Controversy over all the eminent issues would become stagnant. The student body's thought —come
on, cut that out, Selma, we've got a deadline— the student body's thought, now vitally diverse and thriving, would probably
be channeled into one narrow tube, lacking hindsight because of the inability to turn around, and lacking foresight because of
someone’s immediate posterior. Being accustomed to Davidson's atmosphere of outspoken liberality, it’s hard even to conceive of such a situation.
At least we might still have Euphony— A Leery Cry in the Wilderness, Girl, you sure make it hard to
concentrate. All this debate over the Davidson gentleman has produced a serious sociological crisis in the students’ behavior. To anyone
who still holds belief in the Gentleman who went to the after-dance Porgy and was offended, who didn't indulge, who
closes his eyes during the blessing and in chapel: you have a distinct place of honor at Davidson. Please step
back and be recognized . . . just a little farther, sir, so that we can distinguish you from the
rest of the group... . Little bit farther... . good. Now stay there. Remember, Selma says: This is election month.
If you've been having trouble letting him know how much you care, get out and vote. One circle is worth
a thousand lines, Okay, hon, all finished. You ought to be ashamed.
