**The Davidsonian**

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1959

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Dogwood, Driftwood, -or DEADWOOD?

The Student Council’s abortive attempt last Monday night to kick off its series on campus issues turned out to be
a failure. There is a long story behind this first forum; it would be interesting to examine each step along
the way of careful planning. The first inkling of such a series came one chapel period when President Green announced
the new idea and the date of the first forum. The DAVIDSONIAN published one article concerning the Council’s attempt at
justification of existence; we were not contacted for further advertisement. We saw no signs promoting the meeting, and casual conversation
barely mentioned it.

The day of the first meeting arrived. The Council discovered that this night was the first of the IFC wrestling
tournament, planned and publicized for some time. It also found that there was a meeting involving some thirty ROTC cadets
for half an hour in the evening. Perhaps it finally noticed that no reservation for the Union ballroom had been
made, no coffee planned. The Council wisely decided to postpone the forum, but apparently no word of the postponement was
officially circulated. We, at least, heard none. However, a few stalwart faculty members stood in the lobby, waiting for action
to begin. It was for the desk man on duty at the time to tell them that the forum had
been postponed.

The postponed meeting was scheduled for eight o’clock Thursday evening. Nothing at this time could possibly interfere with the forum,
except possibly the fact eighty-five percent of the students would be in fraternity meetings that night. However, with a chapel
announcement and a few scattered signs, the Council charged on, determined to make the forum a success. We've never seen
such a miracle of disorganization. Looks like the big men on campus have really pulled off a fiasco. Luckily the
issue was popular enough to draw a respectable crowd last night. With a little preparation and promotion, it could possibly
have been a capacity one. We wish the Council luck on its coming forums. Who knows, we may see some
blossoms yet.

R.C.S.

Invitation For Inside Job

From time to time we come across statements and editorials demanding the admission of Red China to the United Nations.
Those who advocate this follow the mentality of the ostrich who has hidden his head in the sands of illusion
and has not learned the bitter lesson of past appeasement of tyranny and does not see the potentially dangerous results
of such a policy to our national security. Today the Red leaders are nearer than ever to their goal—control of
Formosa and other strategic areas as steps in the conquest of Asia. Daily we read of their encroachments on Laos
and India. To really achieve their goal of Asian conquest communist leaders know that they must be given a place
in the UN to build their prestige in Asia and to frustrate permanently the UN's ability to rally the public
opinion of the free world to preserve peace.

So far the United States and a majority of the other nations of the free world have refused to be
intimidated by Red Chinese threats or bluster. The overwhelming majority of American people are firm in their support of our
government’s policy of refusing to appease Mao Tse-Tung and his henchmen at the expense of our allies. Some still see
fit to travel the road of appeasement and accommodation with an avowed enemy of our country and of universal freedom.
They advocate we elevate Red China to a position of our own in the eyes of the world. They advocate
this despite repeated declarations by two Presidents against the admission of Communist China to the UN; despite unanimous resolutions by
both Houses of five successive Congresses and almost identical planks in both parties’ platforms in the last Presidential election to
the same effect. In the face of new communist moves against the United Nations itself some would invite the Reds
in—for an inside job.

Another One Of Many...

All this mumbling about the cut system might be rather pointless if all we did were to deal in generalities.
We don’t think we have done this but lest we be guilty of such a sin, let us point to
another specific fault in the rules. Dave Warden, in his letter to the editor on this page, has isolated such
a fallacy. The rule reads as follows: If a student incurs two unexcused absences permitted in a course or in
any required college assembly (chapel or vespers) he may not take trips involving absences in the area in which the
excess absences are taken.

The columns of this paper have railed at this before. Basketballer Bill Shinn had to fly back to school from
Bristol, Tennessee during the past basketball season to attend a class in compliance with this rule. This trip cost the
college about a hundred dollars. At that time we protested the senselessness of a rule that compelled such an action.
Time has presented no new evidence that would change our opinion. We can also remember the time when a Phi
Beta Kappa could not make an athletic trip because of this very same ruling. This rule limits not only athletes,
but also all students on other school-sponsored trips such as conventions, choral trips or what-have-you. Sooner or later it affects
quite a large number of people.

We feel that this specific rule is just another example of a system that offers little real benefit to the
college. As shown, some of its ramifications are rather ridiculous. That is, unless someone particularly happens to like airplane rides.

J.H.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ASSISTANT EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editor Jim Hamilton
Editorial Assistant Bob Livingston
Managing Editors Ervin Duggan, Bob Moore
Sports Editor B. Millner
News Editor Tom Calvin
Feature Editor Charles Rose
Ed Armfield, Dick Smith, Dave Gillis
Assignments Editor David Jordan
Copy Editor Dan Clemmer
Cartoonists Redding Starling
Advertising Manager Charlie Rowe
Circulation Mgr. Albert McClure, Jr.
Ass't. Business Manager Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Freshmen Give Weird Answers In Recent Identification Quiz

HOW MANY DO YOU KNOW?

Taft-Hartley
Emily Post
John R. Cunningham
J. Paul Getty
Warren Harding
Kassem
Wallis Warfield Simpson
Billy Sunday
Luther H. Hodges
Admiral Hyman Rickover
Tennessee Williams
David MacDonald
Laos
Warren Covington
Harold Macmillan
Anna Marie Rasmussen
Ingemar Johansson
Charles De Gaulle
Werner Von Braun
John the Baptist
Walter Reuther
Plato
Maria Callas
Dave Warden
Rudy Vallee
Karl Marx
Harry Golden
Errol Flynn
Thurgood Marshall
Dow-Jones

Now compare your rating with the thirty freshmen who were recently given this same test. The least number missed by
a freshman was eight while the most missed was twenty, with only John the Baptist, and Taft-Hartley identified by 100%.
At the other extreme, no one knew who Jackson Pollock (“a Bible professor”) was and only one person was able
to identify Emily Post. On the identities related to the College, John Cunningham was known by only 78%, Sam Newell
by 40%, and D. H. Hill by a bare 12%. Dee Green and Dave Warden were identified by 95%.

Freshmen scored highest in the entertainment field—Rudy Vallee, Fabian, Errol Flynn were known by 96% but only 60% knew Warren
Covington. Harry Golden (“Hollywood producer”) was missed by 42%, John Hay Whitney (“inventor of the cotton gin”) by 88%. One
person thought Ingemar Johansson married Rockefeller, one thought Karl Marx was Groucho’s brother, and one listed Luther H. Hodges as
first baseman for the Dodgers. Scarlett O’Hara was identified as the actress in “Gone With the Wind” and Warren Harding,
who was missed by 23%, was listed as the founder of Harding High School.

On a second section of the poll, the freshmen were asked to spell Khrushchev and only one succeeded. On this
section they were also asked to list four possible Democratic presidential candidates and two possible Republican candidates. On the Democratic
side Kennedy led the list, followed by Johnson and Stevenson. One student listed Williams and another listed Earl Long as
possibilities. Nixon and Rockefeller were the only Republicans mentioned and Nixon held about a 2-1 edge over Rockefeller.

by Redding

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Warden Tackles Cut Problem: Ray Calls Vespers “Dangerous”

Dave Warden

Dear Editor:

My pet peeve (besides whistling) is the following: “Davidson College Regulation for Students,” p. 43. Participation in Athletics. “If a
student incurs two unexcused absences in addition to the number of unexcused absences permitted in a course or in any
required college assembly (chapel or vespers) he may not take trips involving absences in the area in which the excess
absences are taken.or vespers) he may not take trips involving absences in the area in which the excess absences are
taken.” Why can’t the “college organizational participant” have class cuts without forfeiting his right to take trips? Does the college
administration wish to discourage any or all his 25% organizational participation? I don’t believe the college administration realizes the number
of athletes who would like to participate in varsity sports but do not, solely because of this ruling. There are
not many students who cut class just for the sake of cutting. Sometimes cutting a class can help a student
in his overall college work. Some cut class to go home early at Christmas to work. These cuts are unexcused
and will count against the athlete. Therefore the swimmers, the basketball players, wrestlers, and indoor track men should not apply
for an early Christmas job. They don’t have the cuts. There are many valid reasons (besides this one) for cutting.
It is my hope that by realizing the benefits of cutting a class the Administration and the student body can
see the unfairness and unnecessity of such a ruling as this.

Dave Warden

Tim Ray

Dear Editor:

Perhaps there’s more to this problem of Vespers than meets the eye. We hear over and over the statement, “If
you object to Vespers, why did you come to Davidson?” But those who say this do not realize that college
is a time for a re-evaluation of oneself and one’s ideas in light of new knowledge and of new steps
taken on the road to maturity. This sort of re-evaluation requires a degree of objectivity, both in examining oneself and
in looking at the world of belief and opinion. Objectivity requires freedom from tension. Many a student has decided what
morals he will have in college before coming, but placed in the tension of the desire to be a good
guy, he loses objectivity and goes along with the crowd, violating many inhibitions and ideals that he had in high
school. But in the area of concern which deals with the meaning of life and of the universe, a reasonable
attitude would be to stoically maintain a flexible mind, open to new truths and insights and to seek out humbly
those who disagree with us, with the realization that we may be mistaken and that they may have greater truth,
rather than to (sic) the opinions of our past, absorbed by osmosis during a period of lesser maturity and knowledge.
Constant emotional stimulation destroys this objectivity and reduces a humble seeker to a weak pup in which condition he has
to say yes or no, without strength to resist emotional persuasion and maintain an independent search for reality any longer.
As I see it, Vespers may have two unfortunate by-products: the credulous and the rebels. I am speaking solely of
the Vespers which exists today. The rebels are content to sit in the balcony and write letters. The credulous are
willing to say, on Reformation Sunday, “Almighty God . . ., forgive us our sin, which is very great,” without
a genuine self-scrutiny to discover that sin and correct it. There is an alarming and dangerous lack of unity and
meaning to life when we can sit in classes and hear lectures on such subjects as the danger to mental
health that results from too rigid a set of moral values and then sing hymns in Vespers which go so
far, for example, as stating the necessity of subduing the flesh and all its lustful ways. Does it really make
no difference? Finally, I would like to quote from “The Academic Qualities of a Religious College,” an article by a
Presbyterian, Harold P. Simpson, in the May issue of Faculty Forum: “I find it difficult to reduce education to dogma.
If the fundamental aim of a college is to pursue truth, no matter where it leads, then a college must
remain hospitable to all points of view insofar as they represent honest attempts to get at the truth. “Spokesmen for
some religious faith are convinced they have found truth, evasive though it is. Their duty is then clear; they must
fight heresy and error. But education, unintimidated education, is far removed from such dogmatism. Religious insights, or any other kind
of insight, cannot be imposed by decree upon the student. “Each student must finally face the awful freedom to think
for himself. In my mind, a so-called religious college most strikingly reveals its religious spirit when education is conducted in
a free spirit, without the ‘benefit’ of sacred or secular decrees.”

Tim Ray

I’VE ALWAYS BELIEVED IN BEING KIND TO ANIMALS,

Big Strike Query: Who'll Run U.S.A.?

By JOHN STONE

A Taft-Hartley injunction has ended the nation-wide steel strike temporarily. The big issues have not been settled, however, and it
appears that as soon as the eighty days of the injunction run out, the strike will resume. As I see
it, the big question is this: Who is going to control the industrial destiny of the United States? Perhaps this
may seem to be something of an overstatement of the importance of the present strike, but labor has been growing
in strength for many years, and if this is not the final test, it is certainly a big one. Steel
is one of the most vital factors in the national economy, and the control of this industry is the key
to ultimate control of the economy. Labor is aware of this, and is apparently willing to go to great lengths
to gain a victory here. Yet there is more. If labor wins, the inflationary spiral will continue, for the wage
demands are quite high, and the price of steel must rise to offset them. The labor unions need to realize
that they cannot have their cake and eat it too, short of socialism, which is not really a solution to
the problem, but the bringing on of more troubles than we face at present. On the other hand, if Management
wins, the unions will lose much strength, perhaps too much, and no one can deny that the unions have accomplished
much for the welfare of the workingman. In the long run, this would not be good for America either. The
solution to the steel strike, then, is not to be found in dollars and cents, but in a change in
basic attitude. Both labor and management need to realize that they must, in an industry so vital, work together. The
rest of us suffer from the strike: the whole country is the loser. In the meantime, the weapons of industrial
warfare are silent. But unless a basic responsibility is recognized, they will resume firing soon. And we can only sit
and watch.

A Wry Parable Of Gods, The Good And The Bad

By JACK TAYLOR

The good God and the bad God, in their wanderings to and fro over the earth, once met on a
hill overlooking a cluster of stately Neo-Classic buildings firmly rooted in the Bible Belt.

“A despicable place,” said the good God disdainfully.

“An admirable place,” said the bad God approvingly.

“They confuse me with you; they have made evil things good, and good things evil,” moaned the good God.

“’Tis a consummation devoutly to be wished,” replied the bad God jovially.

“They have a fine way of rejecting my commandments, in order to keep the traditions of men. Their golden rule
is Expediency,” thundered the good God.

“They listen well to my teachings,” observed the bad God. “They make golden idols of my words, but pay no
heed to their meaning. They mold my teachings to fit their desires. And when they pray, they congratulate me for
being on their side, and thank me for making them better than others.”

“Wonderfully unrighteous people!” exclaimed the bad God.

“They are anxious about what they shall wear, and what they shall eat, and what they shall drink. They teach
success, not Life. They believe that the highest good in life is $25,000 a year and perfect Sunday School attendance,”
muttered the good God.

“May their tribe increase,” chortled the bad God.

“They anesthetize the spirit of life with their dogma and maim the soul with their regulations and restrictions. They drive
men from me with their hollow chants,” cried the good God.

“A delightfully dead place,” agreed the bad God.

“They practice their piety before others, that it will be known. They are forever boasting of their goodness,” groaned the
good God.

“A characteristic trait,” replied the bad God, vainly stroking his lean flanks.

“And they have such good potential,” sighed the good God.

“May they never realize it,” prayed the bad God.

And so saying he saluted the good God. The good God nodded acknowledgement, and the two parted to continue their
search over the face of the earth.
