FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1959

SIDELINES UN SPORTS
By B. MILLNER

WE’RE STUCK WITH Tee Redding—and we're glad of it. Things could be much worse. The Asheboro married man passed passably against the ball-hawking V.M.I. secondary at Lexington last weekend and ran much better than anyone thought he could. Benson has been working out this week but his chances of seeing action against Wofford tomorrow are slim. Again the responsibility lies with Tee Redding and we think he'll come through. To say the ’Cats could use a win at this stage of the game would be the understatement of the year.

THE INFIRMARY LIST grows longer every day. Added to Benson's knee and Warden's ankle are Booker Clark’s neck and Jennings Snider’s shoulder. Warden was hurt at almost the same moment as Benson—in the third quarter of the P.C. game. Clark, a sophomore who started the last two games at end, and Snider, a defensive standout lately, were injured in downfield tackling workouts early this week. Coach Dole said that he was aware that he was taking a risky gamble in scheduling rough workouts, but explained that downfield tackling was so shoddy against V.M.I. that the practice was necessary.

THE WILDCATS traditionally have tough luck with the Homecoming game. Out of 33 attempts, they have been able to win only six. Three ties with VMI have resulted, but the Keydets whopped us last year 42-7. There's some consolation in the record book, however. Among the sparse wins are a 54-0 slaughter of William and Mary and a 51-6 win over Washington and Lee. In the ’20s, when several Davidson teams were the scourge of the state, the ’Cats whipped North Carolina 10-0.

MENTAL ATTITUDE is an intangible thing that sometimes wins ball games and, just as often, loses them. Coach Dole says the Wildcats have a good mental attitude toward tomorrow's Homecoming game. We hope they do, but if they’ve taken the press releases to heart, they don’t. The DAVIDSONIAN plastered the “We May Lose Eight” headline all over the top of the sports page two weeks ago. We question the psychology of the source, but it was news and we print news. For all we know, we may lose eight—but we’re confident that 33 football players tomorrow afternoon aren't counting on it.

COACH CHARLIE PARKER has announced the beginning of freshman wrestling practice this Monday. All freshmen interested should meet in the wrestling room at 4 p.m.

Thanks to a last-second field goal by Bruce Usher, the Wildcats squeaked by last year, 21-20.

Hungry Cats After Second Win Tomorrow
By BILL DAVIDSONIAN Sports Writer

The Wildcats are living for tomorrow—and it’s understandable. In the first place, it’s their annual homecoming football game, which dates from 1923. Kick-off time is 2:30 p.m. on Richardson Field. The opponent, Wofford, is a team which consistently provides Davidson a tight and exciting match. Moreover, Coach Dole’s squad is glad to be home after a month’s nightmare on the road—including losses to Southern Conference foes Richmond, The Citadel, and, last week, V.M.I. Finally, the season so far would support a Davidson victory tomorrow. Both teams have been beaten by The Citadel: Davidson 13-7 and the Terriers 40-8. And both have lost to Tangerine-Bowl-bound Presbyterian: the Wildcats 25-21 and Wofford 27-19. Comparative scores give Davidson a slight edge.

Coach Bill Dole expects a struggle. “We've always had very close games with Wofford,” he said this week. “This looks like it'll be another one. The squad attitude is good,” he added. “And has been all year long. It’s simply our mistakes that are beating us.” Davidson is 1-4 for the season, while Wofford stands 2-4.

Two unfortunate injuries plagued the Wildcat line this week. During a tackling drill Tuesday, end Booker Clark twisted his neck and the neck was still in traction late this week, with Clark confined to Charlotte Memorial Hospital. Defensive end Jennings Snider suffered a shoulder injury at practice Monday. Jim Bloomfield and Danny House will probably fill the end positions tomorrow. The Wildcats this week concentrated on pass defense, which showed up badly at V.M.I. Saturday, and on offensive rushing patterns. The Terriers, weak and thin down the line, will be trying to take advantage tomorrow through the air. Sophomore Gary Whitlock will be calling the signals. Probable starters at the ends will be Don Jones and Hoyt Burnett. Wofford’s strongest position is center, with experienced ball-snappers in Wallace Henderson and Dick Weber. In the Terrier backfield, halfbacks Jim Benson (210 lbs.) and Bob Roma (205 lbs.) promise trouble for the Wildcats. Wofford Coach Conley Snidow employs a liberal “T” formation. The line is spread; the fullback is a flanker and the quarterback moves along the line as in a split “T”. Coach Dole will stick with his standard “T”. Tee Redding will start at quarterback.

Probable starting line-ups:
Davidson - Wofford
LE Bloomfield - Jones
RE House - Burnett
LT Watwood - Dunn
RT Lacy - Lewis
LG Anderson - DiBuono
RG Holcomb - Henderson
C Usher - Weber
QB Redding - Whitlock
LHB McRorie - Roma
RHB Allison - Benson
FB Warden - Campbell

New 1960 L&M brings you taste... more taste... More taste by far... yet low in tar! New, free-flowing Miracle Tip unlocks natural tobacco flavor! That’s why L&M can blend fine tobaccos not to suit a filter... but to suit your taste! Only the 1960 L&M * Frees up flavor other filters squeeze in! * Checks tars without choking taste! * Gives you the full, exciting flavor of the world’s finest, naturally mild tobaccos! ©1960 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

WILDCAT WINGER Tom Price puts his toe to the ball in the Duke game which the Davidson soccer squad won 3-2. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells).

Keydet Passes Throw Cats For 34-7 Loss

Poor pass defense proved a mighty stumbling block for the Wildcats last Saturday in Lexington, Va. V.M.I.’s Howard Dyer noted the gaping weakness and tossed his team to a 34-7 Southern Conference win. The second-string quarterback connected with end Dick Evans for touchdown aerials of 57, 12, and 9 yards. Another pass set up a V.M.I. score, and Dyer plunged over from the one-yard-line for a fifth TD. Contacted this week for an explanation of the loss, Coach Dole summarized: “The line played good; the secondary didn't.” And that was it. The V.M.I. clash climaxed Davidson’s worst “road trip” in years.Recent years gave the Wildcats a 1-4 record with four games to go. Playing away the previous two weekends, Davidson fell before Southern Con and The Citadel (13-7). A collapse on pass defense, two costly fumbles, and a couple of intercepted passes contributed to the lopsided loss. A Davidson quick kick which backfired also contributed to the loss. Davidson Coach Bill Dole said, “Our line looked good.” 

Coach Dole had praise for several Wildcats. He singled out these players: Center Bruce Usher, who converted after Jerry Sheffield’s third-quarter touchdown; fullback Dave Warden; and quarterback Tee Redding, replacement for the injured Charlie Benson. Dole also hailed the fine work of his defensive line and linebackers.

In addition to the Wildcats’ efforts, Jerry Sheffield stood out.

---

AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
MEET YOUR FRIENDS WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

---

Look For Your Best CLOTHES From Rush Wilson Ltd. For Homecoming

---

Davidson combined relentless hustle and sheer guts to completely outplay nationally-ranked Carolina this afternoon, only to lose 1-0 in the final seconds. The Tarheels, fighting to keep their undefeated record clean, relied on all-around consistent play and a powerful bench to down the tenacious Wildcats. A novel three-fullback defense stymied several Davidson efforts to score.

Highlight of the season from Davidson’s point of view came last Saturday morning when the Wildcats dropped the favored Duke Blue Devils 3-2.

LAUGHLIN STARS

The lethal toe of Mike Laughlin accounted for all the Wildcat tallies. Laughlin booted two goals in the first stanza and added another in the third to make the score 3-0 with the game three-quarters old. Duke hadn't given up the ghost and stormed back for two quick goals as the final period opened. It was touch and go for the rest of the quarter with Duke pressing and Davidson, relying on the play of fullbacks Pharr and Dalton and the booming punts of Claude Finney, holding on for dear life.

FIRST ACC WIN

The win over Duke was the first one over an ACC team since the sport was placed on an intercollegiate basis here four years ago. Davidson had suffered eight previous defeats at the hands of powerful ACC foes.

An elated Paul Marrotte, hoisted on the shoulders of his players after the final gun, said that the victory showed a great amount of desire on the part of the whole team. “I believe the team has greatly improved in every facet of the game,” he said. The coach had special praise for top scorer Mike Laughlin. “He's got a great toe,” he said. Marrotte also lauded the work of goalie Claude Finney, co-captain Ward McKeithen, and newcomer Dick Dalton. The loss to Carolina leaves the Wildcats with a 5-2 record. In addition to the Duke triumph, the Wildcats also hold victories over King and Pfeiffer and two wins over Belmont Abbey.

PFEIFFER NEXT

Next on the docket for the Wildcats is a November 4th clash with Pfeiffer. Earlier in the season, Davidson humbled Pfeiffer 5-0. Marrotte commented that he thought Davidson would have little trouble in the contest if they “don't get overconfident and don’t make the little mistakes that can give the game away.” Davidson can give any ball team a tough match.

---

IN FLICKERBALL SHOWDOWN

MONDAY ACTION

In Monday’s action, the Phi Delts, led by quarterback Bobby Davis, blanked the Independents 38-0. The SAE’s, sparked by Ed Hines and Harry Smith, roared to a 36-7 win over the Pi Kapps. The KA’s took a 20-14 victory over the Phi Gams, and the Sig Eps were defeated by the Kappa Sigs.

TUESDAY

The Betas won by forfeit from the Independents on Tuesday. The Pi Kapps, led by quarterback Quinton Boyd, defeated the Sig Eps 26-0. The SAE's continued their winning streak with a 45-6 victory over the luckless Sigma Nus. The Sigma Chis beat the ATO’s 39-6.

WEDNESDAY

The highlights of Wednesday’s games were Beta and Phi Delt wins. The Betas, sparked by Mel Armstrong, took a 27-7 win over the KA’s. The Phi Delts edged a strong Phi Gam club 14-6. In other action, the Pi Kapps defeated the Pikas with a touchdown in the last 30 seconds. The Sig Eps scored a 20-12 decision over the Sigma Nus. No games were played on Thursday.

Current unofficial standings are:
W L Pct.
Phi Delt 9 0 1.000
Beta 9 0 1.000
Sigma Chi 5 2 .714
Kappa Sig 5 2 .714
SAE 5 2 .714
ATO 4 3 .571
KA 4 4 .500
Phi Gam 3 4 .429
Pi Kapp 3 5 .375
Sig Ep 2 8 .250
Ind. 1 6 .143
Pika 0 8 .000
Sigma Nu 0 9 .000

---

WHIP SPIDERS 15-46

The Davidson Cross-Country squad ran over humble Richmond on the latter’s home course yesterday. Wildcat standouts were Bill Eckbert and Dave Gilmour as Davidson extended its season’s record to seven wins and one loss. The victory put the harriers in good position for Wednesday’s meet here against powerful V.M.I. The Keydets, Southern Conference defending champions, are undefeated this season. Winner of the Davidson-V.M.I. match should take top laurels in the conference meet November 16.

V.M.I. counts highly on the performances of three runners: Larry Williams and John McDougall, who finished fifth and sixth respectively in the 1958 Southern Conference meet, and durable Bill Braithwaite. In that same meet, Wildcat Angus McBryde, now graduated, came in third.

Betas, Phi Delts Mix Next Week

By JIM PRESSLY
Sports Writer

The deciding game of the 1959 Interfraternity Flickerball season will be played next week, when the Betas meet the Phi Delts. These two teams are currently tied for first place with identical 9-0 marks.