PAGE FOUR

Greek Week Hazing Not Defined: Allowed

The IFC has announced that Greek Week activities will officially begin at 7:30 a.m., March 10, and carry through to
midnight, March 14, with Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday's program ending at 10:30 p.m. and Friday's activities terminating at 12:00 midnight.

“Greek Week is the channeling of fraternity energy toward constructive endeavor, with particular interest in promoting greater cooperation among fraternities
and better preparation of pledges for fraternity life,” as defined in the Greek Week Report of the Pan-Hellenic Council, Fraternity
Presidents Committee on Greek Week. Its purposes are: “(1) To promote acquaintance and good feeling among chapters, (2) To best
prepare pledges for membership in their own fraternity, (3) To achieve a solidarity within each chapter respecting its pledges and
brothers, (4) To better justify fraternity existence, and (5) To put fraternity in a better light before the public eye
by means of constructive projects.”

As stated in a report by the IFC, “Any pre-initiation practice which incurs loss of sleep, physical harm, interruption of
school work, personal humiliation or punishment (either private or public) or any other general distasteful practice which jeopardizes the good
name of the college or fraternity is condemned. Future pre-initiation ceremonies will be of a constructive nature regulated by the
IFC.”

“Hazing,” was defined in a letter from National Fraternity, “as a public display shall consist of any and all forms
of public appearance which may result in adverse publicity to the fraternity, as ‘physical abuse’ shall be interpreted to mean
any practice, whether internal or external, which is apt to be detrimental to the health and well-being of a pledge,
as scholastic interference shall consist of any and all practices which place pledges in the position of being unable to
attend or properly prepare themselves for classes, and as moral indignity shall be defined as actions which by their ethical,
moral, and social implications, when viewed in the light of socially accepted standards of right and wrong, which may create
in the individual a feeling of humiliation and/or disgrace.”

“The constructive phases, work details, duties, or errands of a constructive nature, or participation in intramural athletics, or similar extra-curricular
activities shall not be classed under this rule.”

At a meeting of the fraternity pledge trainers and several IFC members on February 18, Vernon Anderson, IFC President, emphasized,
“What I want to impress is not to interpret the letter of the law but the spirit of it. We
don’t want this to have to go before the faculty.”

“It will be necessary to exert some active influence against some things which have been traditional in the past,” added
Richard Brubaker, IFC Secretary. “I guarantee it’ll really work if you’ll get behind it.”

On the subject of having a field day organized, the point was brought up that some fraternities were dubious as
to entering because of numerical disadvantages. Thus a majority vote decided to have field day based on individual fraternity challenges.

“Our original idea was to have an organized deal with times, events, and all fraternities entered. But this would take
away from the social projects. Field day was meant to fill the void caused by the abolition in Greek Week
of some activities of Hell Week. It was designed to help fill a total program. By individual fraternities challenging each
other, it will have to be planned well by the pledge trainers. This is as good a thing as you
can do to replace harassment, etc.”

The Vereen Bell Memorial Award is given in memory of a Davidson alumnus of the class of 1932, Vereen Bell
(1911-1944). Bell was killed in action in the Second Battle of the Philippines. He had published two novels, “Swamp Water”
and “Two of a Kind,” and many short stories about outdoor life in Georgia. All persons planning to enter the
contest are reminded that they must turn in their copy to some member of the English department by noon, March
16.

Manor (Continued From Page One)

Stella is the official mistress of Martin's Manor. Several months ago Gene Long accidentally struck her with his car and
broke her hip. Since her recovery, Stella spends much of her time with the men of the Manor. They don’t
even mind her blackness. Stella is very friendly, not barking at strangers anymore.

Since Martin’s Manor will not be used for dormitory space after next year, only seniors will be permitted to room
within its hallowed halls. In order to reserve space in this restricted area for next year, special application blanks available
from Mrs. Moore must be filled out. The time is drawing near to get rooms for next year, so if
juniors have ambitions about rooming in this sanctuary, Mrs. Moore should be notified immediately.

They said it couldn't be done... They said nobody could do it... L&M is LOW TAR: L&M’s patented filtering process
cally, crosswise to the stream of smoke. MORE TASTE: L&M’s rich mixture of slow burning exciting taste than any other
cigarette. LIVE MODERN... CHANGE TO MODERN L&M for one without the other!

Presbyterian Trio Performance (Continued From Page One)

The Kingston Trio Concert, scheduled for March 3, has been postponed until April 9. The course will be taught by
eleven or twelve men, representatives from all departments, and each will lecture for a number of periods on the subject
at hand in the light of his particular field. These professors will lead the seminar groups, and will therefore be
required to keep up with the general progress of the class. A condensed course in Old and New Testament Bible
will be required of all freshmen. Seniors must meet a lecture class conducted by outside speakers who will talk on
current events. The seminars connected with the lecture will deal with these problems in the light of modern Christianity, and
will be designed to show the student the meaning of Christianity as applicable to contemporary problems.

Eggers To Judge Contest Entrants

Dr. Graydon P. Eggers, Chairman of the English Department of Appalachian State Teachers College, will be the final judge of
the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing. Dr. Eggers will appear at Davidson on April 30 to make the
award. Dr. Eggers attended Carson-Newman, Harvard, and Duke. He has as his academic specialty the social novel of the nineteenth
century. His outstanding creative achievement is the translation into modern verse of the Middle English poem “The Owl and the
Nightingale.” This work first appeared in book form in 1955. Dr. Eggers has also written much modern nonsense verse.

A telegram to Vernon Anderson, army's chief of combat developments, forced the group to call off their appearance. Word was
spread to the student body at lunch. It was also necessary to inform Queens, Salem, and the Women’s College, since
a large number of tickets had been sold there. Anderson stated that these schools were told of thecancellation before their
groups had started out, but that there will be no fraternities: many individuals at other campuses. Social life will be
centered around the thirty-man dormitories. Each dorm will have a lounge and small library; closed circuit TV will be installed
in the lounges. There will be one chapel and one student assembly every week. A short devotional will be offered
every day over the closed circuit TV, and there will be no required Vespers because, as Dr. Bevan put it,
“We want the students to become a part of the city of St. Petersburg, and we feel one of the
best ways to accomplish this is for the students to go to the community church services.”

The first semester will run from September to Christmas, including exams. The second semester will begin in February and run
through May. The four-week period after Christmas is, as Dr. Bevan put it, a “mid-semester.” During this time each student
will do intensive research in a field of study in which he took a course the semester before. The grade
for that particular course will be withheld until the student has finished his paper. A senior may use the time
to prepare for a comprehensive exam or to do work on a thesis, one of which will be required of
each student for graduation.

The college will open next September in temporary quarters. The proposed physical plant is scheduled for completion in 1962.

©1959 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company says TV’s George Gobel. “There are you'll go for ’em. They’re truly low in
adds extra filter fibers electrostatically makes EM truly low in tar. tobaccos brings you more assembly every and so can’t
be described as a on the Florida Presbyterian colleges did not receive word until too late. “Of course the IFC
and the entire student body was very upset and sorry,” said Anderson. “But it was an act of God, breach
of contract.” He also called Guard’s illness “virus or flu, not pneumonia as was rumored.” He also stated that the
April 9 date was about the only one possible in the Trio’s busy schedule. “It is definite that this is
the tentative date,” he said, “although we would like to arrange a concert for Spring Frolics instead, if the Trio
can possibly arrange it. It seems highly unlikely, though,” he added. The tickets sold for the March 3 Concert will
be honored at the rescheduled program.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS While enjoying PIZZA and In a Romantic Italian Atmosphere GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. Morehead at Wilkinson Blvd. Charlotte,
N. C.

As an Army officer, you’re in command of men. More men than the number supervised by many civilian executives years
older than yourself. To meet your command responsibilities, you employ a great many of the LEADERSHIP principles acquired in advanced
R.O.T.C. training. And your executive potential develops while Interfraternity Council President, arrived noon Tuesday many of these predictions are

TRADITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1959

ROTC Cadets Of 1970 Can Expect Changes

What can the Davidson ROTC cadet graduate of 1970 expect in regard to uniform, equipment, transportation, and food when he
enters the U. S. Army? As a result of studies by the tion or hover motionless in one day’s frozen
food. The Army promises many changes in its plans for the future. The Davidson graduate will forget the general meal
of regular service and will be replaced by ten tasty meals of irradiated food which he will carry about with
him in a small flat pack. It will resemble to officials have come forth with speculations for the future, many
of which sound classified, some have been released to the public to give an idea of the sweeping changes ahead.
Overall, the 1970 cadet will be better improved physically to endure the rigors of the changing conditions of warfare. His
training program will be altered to include the newest aspects of military life and activity. The ROTC program here as
well as elsewhere will be changed to meet new demands. Uniform-wise, the soldier of the near future will present an
interesting picture. Wearing headgear similar to a football helmet, he will have special clothing which will protect him from any
form of enemy attack, chemical, biological or radiological. He will carry a light, all-purpose supergun with 150 rounds of ammunition.

Transportation will pose no problem for the Davidson cadet graduate in 1970. For climbing obstacles and crossing ditches, problems for
the soldier on foot, he will employ a rocket belt strapped to his back and casually pass over any barrier.
Vehicles with zero ground pressure are to play an important role in the future. These will perhaps be of the
flying jeep variety as advances in the use of atomic and nuclear power renovate present concepts of transportation. The predicted
CORE is a registered trademark. COPYRIGHT © 1959 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Abracadabra

Foolish boy—the best way to make a bottle of Coke disappear is to drink it! Yes, swallow after swallow, that
cold crisp taste is so deeply satisfying ... and the lively lift is so bright and cheerful the whole day
seems happier, just like magic. So open sesame! Just uncap the bottle and get ready for The Pause That Refreshes!

BE REALLY REFRESHED...HAVE A COKE!

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD Coke is a registered trademark, ©1954,
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Why did 14,436 sophomores enter advanced Army R.O.T.C. during 1958?

Many more applied. Not all were accepted. In more than 200 U. S. colleges, 14,436 college sophomores met the high
standards set. These students were selected to continue officer training in the advanced R.O.T.C. course. Why did each of these
young men decide that he would benefit by fulfilling his military obligation as an Army officer? Here are two important
reasons. Perhaps they'll help you make your decision.

1... TRADITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES

As you gather LEADERSHIP experience. The executive ability you gain as an Army officer will be an important advantage in
any civilian career. That’s why employment directors often prefer men who have served as commissioned officers. These men have already
proven their capacity to handle executive responsibility.

2... TRADITIONAL REWARDS

In every organization greater responsibilities mean greater rewards. The traditional prestige of an Army Officer is matched by material advantages.
A second lieutenant earns a minimum of $355.88 per month—plus substantial fringe benefits. Think you might want to marry soon
after graduation? An officer's salary can make things a great deal easier for a married couple just starting out. What's
more, an Army officer is entitled to take his dependents with him, wherever possible. Imagine sharing the fun of travel
with your wife—in the United States or foreign countries like France, Germany or Japan.

Considering Responsibilities and Rewards of Military Service? Discuss your decision with the Professor of Military Science. He’ll be glad to
talk it over.
