\ v | )~-A PRICED

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. June 11, 1959 Vol. 1

WELCOME

Welcome to Davidson Summer Session and to the beautiful and peaceful setting of our modest Williamsburg campus. Relax and enjoy the fruitful summer months before you, make yourself at home in your quaint old classrooms, your aromatic labs, and your little lonely dormitory lodgings.

Now if the editors may be allowed to speak a few words of advice, gleaned from long and arduous sessions of study over the years, let us caution you - do not overstudy. Don't spend all your waking minutes poring over the books, don't go back for too many after-hours classes, tear yourselves away from the feverish tête-à-têtes, the long and heated discussions with your professors; play a little, students, it's good for you.

You can find the greatest opportunity for recreation right here at your good old College Union. Yes, come to us for a little fun and relaxation, read our comics, enjoy the thrill of the sports world, take this opportunity to cultivate agility and coordination in games of pool and ping pong, become proficient in Monopoly, Scrabble, and Clue. Sip the cool, refreshing wines of our snack bar.

We urge you to take a few minutes every day or two and come to the Union. We think you'll enjoy yourself - and those you meet here.

UPCOMING MOVIES:
Friday, Sat., June 19 and 20, "All My Sons" with Edward G. Robinson, Burt Lancaster

Friday, Sat., June 26 and 27, "Odd Man Out" with James Mason, Robert Newton

8:00 P.M. College Union

The Union Presents
WEDNESDAY NIGHT BREAK
Tonight at nine o'clock -- hot dogs, cokes, music, girls ----

COLLEGE UNION TERRACE AT 9:00

CHEERIO, CHRIS

Have you ever stopped to think who is responsible for the food you consume three times a day -- two times a day, you snack hounds! Well, part of the praise, or the blame, goes to a smiling Englishman whose ready ear and pleasant manner helps to keep things running in the inner recesses of the cafeteria.

Mr. Christopher Hayselden has had long and varied training for his present position as assistant manager of the college cafeteria. He grew up in Yorkshire, Eng., where he learned to bake biscuits (cookies to us) and to cook one of England's national dishes, fish 'n chips. In 1937, while still a teenager, he joined His Majesty's Royal Air Force to see the world. This tour made him an expert on various things including the back alleys of Baghdad and Bombay.

What concerns us more is the broadening of his culinary art by the addition of such exotic dishes as buffalo à la Bombay, Casablanca corn pone, and Delhi delight (creamed silk worms on toast). His experiences in Northern Ireland and Canada have added ever greater variety to his cooking repertoire.

We want to express our sincere appreciation to Mr. Hayselden for his friendliness. We feel that his departure next week will be a loss to all of us, for we will miss the British spice in our Greek pudding.