PAGE FOUR

Laurens Walker, retiring DAVIDSONIAN Editor-in-Chief, looks up from the New York Times magazine he is scanning in preparation for his College Bowl appearance. The Question: Which Is The Real Walker?

“Bzzzzzt!” A light flashes on, a question is calmly answered, watching millions sigh with admiration, and another facet—the Quiz Kid—of the manifold personality of Laurens (“Wad”) Walker is revealed. The other facets are well known here at Davidson: the military man (“Just when was the last time you did get a haircut?”), the campus leader (“Let me buy you a cup of coffee”), the scholar (Damn! Just a 3.0 this semester”). The question may arise: Which is the “real” Walker? And the answer is: None of these. For the essential Laurentian character expresses itself away from the public eye, among the untrodden ways, and it takes the form not of the Leader or the Scholar or the Quiz Kid, but of the Editor. Whether gently snarling at associates (“You can't say that in an editorial; they'd throw us both out of school”), creating an editorial (“You spell it ‘principal’ don’t you—or is it ‘principle’?”), or dealing with the mighty (“Now President Martin, we certainly didn’t mean to imply that”), Wad is most in his natural element when getting out a paper. This year the DAVIDSONIAN was stamped with the WLW trademark. It was the concrete result of the action of numerous individuals, but it was more than the product of an anonymous group. It had a personality of its own, and this personality closely reflected that of its editor. It was critical and probing but still constructive, it was pragmatic in action but within a framework of progressive principles, it was balanced by humor, and it was, above all, intelligent and purposeful.

Fredericksen (Continued From Page One)

U. S. NAVY

The military stepped into the picture about then and two draft boards called him at the same time. Dr. Fredericksen said that he was registered with one board in New Jersey and another in Virginia. “Neither one knew what the other was doing,” he said. With eight years of college behind him, the Navy made him an Apprentice Seaman. His application for a commission was soon processed, and he was sent to Princeton to join the ranks of other “80 day wonders.”

“Princeton was a sort of vacation after boot camp,” Dr. Fredericksen said with a grin. “They taught us a little bit of everything there. Just to tell us what the Navy was about.” With another smile on his face, Dr. Fredericksen went on to tell about his assignment.

First assigned to a LST, an assignment which lasted until the end of the war, and then to the U.S.S. Amycus an amphibious repair ship to gain points for discharge, Dr. Fredericksen served many positions. “I was gunnery officer on the Amycus for a while, but when everybody left I made executive officer,” he said. Discharged in 1946, Dr. Fredericksen returned to the University of Virginia. “I had to pass a German reading exam for my Ph.D. and play a little more bridge.”

MERCK AND CO.

He went to work with Merck and Company in 1947 as a Senior Research Chemist. In 1948 while sitting on the back row of an American Chemical Society meeting, he met his wife, Harriet, a native of Red Springs, North Carolina. “She was sitting on the back row and so was I,” he said. “The speaker was dull and after a little chat I persuaded her to leave with me. The Fredericksen’s have three children. Jimmy, age 10 months, Martha Ann Scott, age 4, and Mary Louise, age 6.

RESEARCH CHEMIST

While working for Merck and Company, Dr. Fredericksen did research on existing processes and with trouble shooting for production. Developmental research also took a great deal of his time. Reaching down into one of his desk drawers, he lifted out a small vial of red crystals, “This is 0.6449 grams of 90% pure Vitamin B-12,” he said, “and enough for about a million doses.” Dr. Fredericksen did a lot of work on the purification and production of vitamins and antibodies.

In 1953 he left Merck and went to West Virginia to teach for a year. Next he accepted a job at Hampden-Sydney as head of the Chemistry Department. Dr. Fredericksen remained there three years and taught both Freshman and Organic Chemistry. At Davidson since the Fall of 1957, he thinks this is a fine school and says, “What I’ve seen of southern education, it’s right up front.” Research being his primary interest, Dr. Fredericksen has introduced some of his advanced students to research problems of their own. “I've got the highest student to professor ratio of any course here.” he said with a broad grin. “One to one.” Milton Gee is the only student taking his Chemistry 82 course this semester.

Luncheon To Fete Press Executives

Key executives of television, radio, and the press will be on campus Monday for a luncheon and conference with Dr. Martin. The meeting will primarily concern publicity of the April 22 inauguration of the president. Mr. James J. Harris of Charlotte, the chairman of the Board of Visitors, invited the guests to Davidson. They will attend the informal luncheon at 12:15 in the ballroom of the Union. At this time, Mr. Harris will extend a note of appreciation from the college for the coverage already given the inauguration. The guests will also have an opportunity to ask further questions concerning the coming event. Ed Armfield and Laurens Walker will represent the DAVIDSONIAN at this meeting.

THERE’S AN IMPORTANT FUTURE FOR MEN WHO WEAR THESE WINGS

The Male Chorus leaves on its “Silver Anniversary” Spring Tour on Saturday, April 11. Mr. Donald B. Plott, the director of the choir, is taking twenty-eight singers and the accompanist, Arthur P. Lawrence. The tour, which will cover 2,000 miles, will include between six and eight concerts. Four performances will be secular, and the remaining will be of a religious nature. The chorus is scheduled to return to Davidson late Saturday night, April 18.

The scheduled concerts are as follows:
1. Sullins College in Bristol, Virginia.
2. First Presbyterian Church in Huntington, West Virginia.
3. DeVillis High School Toledo, Ohio.
4. First Presbyterian Church in Detroit, Michigan.
5. Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Virginia.
6. Hollins College in Roanoke, Virginia.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

While enjoying our Famous PIZZA and SPAGHETTI In a Romantic Italian Atmosphere At The W. Morehead at Wilkinson Blvd. Charlotte, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIANOne of some fifteen-hundred abstractors for the chemical magazine, Chemical Abstracts. Material is sent to him about twice a month, which he abstracts for publication in the magazine. He likes to work in his vegetable garden, play tennis, watch Peter Gunn, Have Gun Will Travel, and Gunsmoke on television. Classical music also receives much of his free time. A refreshing person to talk to, he can always make one laugh no matter how bad one may feel. From his office in one corner of the Chemistry Lab, he has made chemistry understandable and enjoyable for those students who come to him with their problems. Important awards and events in his life are listed with his name in Who's Who In Science and in American Men of Science.

AFTER-SIX FORMAL WEAR

Foolies To Feature Old-Time Minstrels

The “D” Club Foolies this year will be in the form of a minstrel show in the traditional Americana form. Ray Atkinson, director of the production, emphasizes the fact that this year’s show will not be a collection of variety acts, but an accurate reproduction of the old-time stock minstrel show. This year's edition of the Foolies was written by Tom Kernan and Jack Lohman after much research in the Davidson and Mecklenburg County libraries. It will include all the music, color, noise, and jokes that have traditionally been a part of the minstrel show and will be complete with characters like Mr. Bones and Mr. Interlocutor. The show will be done in blackface and costumes.

The music will be basically that of Stephen Foster. Larry McNeill is directing the chorus and other music. Bill Workman will sing “Old Man River” and there will be duets with Queens girls. Much of the comedy will come from the six end-men, four of whom are Paul Biggers, John Watwood, Bruce Usher, and Frank Anderson. The emcee—Mr. Interlocutor—will be Gordon Swaim.

Other spot acts will include tap dancers and banjo players and a dancing team from Queens. The audience will be asked to participate in singing some of Foster’s songs. The show is scheduled for Friday night, April 24, and will be presented before the informal dance. It will be about an hour and fifteen minutes long.

IFC To Recognize Pledge Class Spirit

The IFC met briefly Monday night and primarily made plans for the appearance of the Kingston Trio. Each fraternity was instructed to elect its representative for next year’s council by April 13 and plans were made to elect new officers on April 20. It was also decided to purchase a trophy to be called the IFC Pledge Trophy. This trophy will be presented each year to the pledge class showing the best spirit. Other factors that will be considered are scholarship, leadership, and the Greek Week Project.

Macon To Return For Eco Program

Dr. Hershal L. Macon, who spoke here three years ago, is returning to speak to the Business-Economics Association at its April meeting this Tuesday, April 14. Dr. Macon is a TVA economist from Tennessee and is on the Government Relations and Economics Staff of the TVA. Bob Wynne, president of the association, stated, “Dr. Macon has been asked to return to the campus because of the very interesting program which he presented on his visit.” The meeting will begin at 7:30 p.m. in the union ballroom.

We have a complete line of Regulars, Shorts, Long, and Extra Long, and all accessories in stock.

Dinner Jacket $29.50
Tropical Trousers $12.50

AFTER-SIX RENTALS
FORMAL ATTIRE
Complete $10.00 Without Shoes

A Representative will be in the Student Union April 14 & 15, 4:00 until 10:00 p.m. For orders and measurements.

Young Mens Shop
Mooresville, N. C.

Dr. Livingstone? What a happy man he would have been if his man Stanley could have brought along a carton of Coke! That cold crisp taste, that lively lift would certainly hit the spot with any tired explorer. In fact, after your next safari to class—wouldn’t Coca-Cola taste good to you?

BE REALLY REFRESHED...HAVE A COKE!

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD ©1959, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

FILTER-BLEND... IT'S WHAT'S UP FRONT THAT COUNTS

The Air Force pilot or navigator is a man of many talents. He is, first of all, a master of the skies—and no finer exists. In addition, he has a firm background in astro-navigation, electronics, engineering and allied fields. Then, too, he must show outstanding qualities of leadership, initiative and self-reliance. In short, he is a man eminently prepared for an important future in the new Age of Space. Find out today if you can qualify as an Air Force pilot or navigator. Paste the attached coupon on a postal card and mail it now.

GRADUATE THEN FLY
U.S. AIR FORCE AVIATION CADET PROGRAM

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY

Aviation Cadet Information, Dept. A-94B
Box 7008, Washington 4, D. C.

Please send me details on my opportunities as an Aviation Cadet in the U.S. Air Force. I am a U.S. citizen, between the ages of 19 and 26½ and a resident of the U.S. or possessions. I am interested in O Pilot O Navigator training.

Name
College
Street
City
Zone
State

Be ye not slow, therefore, to test the wit of what we say: that Winston, friend, is it; for that with ev’ry smoke ye do delay ye are not gathering rosebuds while ye may!

“We are advertised by our loving friends...”
KING HENRY VI, PART III, ACT V, SC. III

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.