Lost Issue By 1958-59 Staff

VOL. XLVI

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1959

Armfield, Greek Week Activities — A WS “Not A Howling Success”

By DICK SMITH
Davidsonian Managing Editor

IFC President Vernon Anderson admitted in a DAVIDSONIAN interview early this week that the past Greek Week was “not a howling success, but I would say that it is a definite step in the right direction.” He went on to clarify his position, saying that “it is almost an impossibility to expect the fraternities to do a complete about-face in one year. The promise made by last year’s IFC to the administration was made under a good deal of pressure, you remember. In many respects it was a bit unrealistic, but it showed the right attitude and an awareness of the problem.

“The Council this year agrees completely with the promise, and did everything it could to uphold it, but strictly speaking, it would be an impossible task. And in the same strict sense, we may have broken our word to the administration, but as a matter of fact, it is pleased with the progress this year, and realizes how high the goal was set for first-year accomplishment.

“Much of the noise and apparent ignoring of the IFC policy was the work of individual pledge classes, under their own initiative. We can’t do a thing about that. I suppose it might be possible to supervise every pledge’s activities throughout the week, but there I think we would be getting into a question of school spirit. After all, much of the spirit we have is developed through the fraternities, and to curtail all activities, constructive or not, would be a blow to school spirit.

“I would say that, making the same progress we have made this year in, say, the next two years, we can expect a first-class Greek Week in every sense of the phrase. Some of the seniors just love Hell Week; you can’t blame them, because they went through it all themselves since their freshman year, and the time will come in the not-too-distant future that everyone will see the purpose of an activities week, and will see the merits of a real Greek Week.”

Anderson stated with no reservations that “The IFC realized its responsibility to the school and to the fraternities. The members also realized that questionable situations were bound to come up, and consequently were on the lookout for violations of spirit of the program, rather than violations of the letter.

“None of the former violations were turned in to the Council; I will admit, however, that there is a possibility that some should have been.”

Anderson then stated a challenge to next year’s IFC: “The main problem will be a clarification of the rules, along with a clearer justification of the change. In summing up our progress, I would say that we had good cooperation with the general plan and spirit of the law. I’d call this a definite step in the right direction, and I expect even more improvement next year.”

Annual Publication Set For Mid-May

The Quips and Cranks editorial staff will send the final copy and last pictures for the 1959 edition of the yearbook to the printers within two weeks. According to Editor John Caldwell, a date of publication by the middle of May, before exams, was assured the staff by a representative of the Observer Printing House of Charlotte, printers of the annual.

The date of publication is now completely dependent upon the printers. At present, the completion of the layout awaits only the pictures of spring sports. At least three-fourths of the material has already been turned over to the printers and the first proofs should be received shortly. Proofs of some pictures have already been sent by the engraver.

The staff anticipates no difficulty in meeting the proposed publication date in May. Although no definite plans have been laid, distribution will probably be made from the College Union as it has been in the past. The general plan and many details of Quips and Cranks will be withheld until publication.

Montgomery To Initiate “Great Issues” Series

Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky wired the college this morning that he would be unable to open this semester’s “Great Issues Series” as previously planned. Commitments on the floor of the Senate made the trip impossible at this time. The Series will open instead on Tuesday, March 24, with Dr. Robert H. Montgomery of the University of Texas as the keynote speaker.

This is the second and final Great Issues series of this school year. The first was initiated in the fall and was concerned with “Great Issues in Politics.” The present series is to consist of three programs. The first being today’s speaker, a prominent national figure. The second is to be a series of talks by an academic economist and the third, a debate between a representative of labor and a representative of management.

The academic economist will be Dr. Robert H. Montgomery, Professor of Economics at the University of Texas. Dr. Montgomery will speak on the subject “The Impact of Science on Culture” on next Tuesday, March 24, at 8:00 p.m. in the Ballroom of the Student Union. On the following afternoon, Wednesday, March 25, he will again be in the Union Ballroom for an open forum and will discuss the topic of the previous evening with students and other interested persons.

Dr. E. F. Patterson, Associate Professor of Economics, termed Dr. Montgomery as “one of the most stimulating speakers that I have heard; he is very dynamic ... and humorous yet speaking on a serious subject.”

On Thursday morning, May 7, Mr. Edwin S. Dillard, a representative of management, and Mr. Boyd Payton, a representative of labor, will both give a short introduction in chapel. That evening there will be a debate between Mr. Dillard and Mr. Payton in the Ballroom of the College Union. The subject will be the “Unionization of the Textile Industry.”

Mr. Dillard received his bachelor’s degree from the University of North Carolina and eight years ago was made president of the Old Dominion Box Company. He also holds many other important positions and is on the board of directors of various firms throughout the Southeastern area.

Mr. Payton began working for the Celanese Corporation of America in 1926 and in 1936 helped organize 11,000 fellow employees into a local union of the Textile Workers Union of America. He has been very active with the TWUA since that time and in 1953 he was appointed Southern Director of that union.

Dr. Patterson stated that he hoped that Davidson students and faculty would take an active interest in the series and feel free to criticize and comment about it.

Earl Atlee Comments Upon World Happenings

By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonian Sports Editor

“The Berlin situation is rather tense right now. Both sides will have to make concessions. The disarmament of Germany might be a possible solution and a summit conference wouldn’t do any harm. However, I don’t know how you Americans want to run your show.” Earl Clement Attlee, conversed with DAVIDSONIAN staff members Friday afternoon. “Macmillan’s visit to Russia may have done some good. Relations of this sort are always useful, though I don’t know how much resulted from this one.

“I do not think the West should disarm unless Russia does,” he said, commenting upon a suggestion of Bertrand Russell’s, “I believe there is hope in negotiation.”

College Bowl Selections Approach Final Stages

By ED ARMFIELD
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The field of candidates for the Davidson College TV Bowl Quiz Team was narrowed to eight in individual competition in the Green Room of the Union last Tuesday night. The eight remaining contenders for the top four positions and possibly two alternate berths are Monty Bracey, Charles Chastain, John Kuykendall, Bobby Livingston, Frank Nye, Don Stein, John Stone, and Laurens Walker.

The four who reached the Tuesday night session but were eliminated are Ervin Duggan, Alfred McKay, Allan Smyth, and Perrin Wright. These twelve were selected strictly on the basis of the General Culture Test, given under the direction of Professor Jay Ostwald.

The Faculty College Bowl Committee, under the chairmanship of Professor Paul Marrotte, is composed of Professors Abernethy, Jackson, Gallent, McCutchan, and Polley was joined in the Tuesday night screening by some twenty faculty members and President Martin.

The second mock quiz session, similar to the one conducted by Dr. McCutchan on Tuesday night, was set for this afternoon in Room 310 Chambers at 4:30. This afternoon’s session was to have been on a team competition basis with Charles Chastain and Bobby Livingston serving as captains of the teams.the two teams. The first question asked of contestants Tuesday night was, “What is the significance of each of the following dates in March—March 21, 24, and 27?” Among other questions asked in the hour and a half brain-teasing session was, “If you had a torus for breakfast what would you have eaten?” The answer, of course, is a doughnut. One faculty member, who asked not to be named, said that he enjoyed the questioning of the panels on the third go-round because, “By then I knew some of the answers.”

“Russia may not be as aggressive now as under Stalin because they are better off. They have something to lose now. You're too quick to worry about war, my lads.” As he spoke, Attlee lounged in an easy chair, his crossed legs extended far to one side, his head resting against the high chair back. Except when talking, he puffed incessantly on a pipe that drooped from the side of his mouth. His comments turned to the Near, Middle, and Far East. “I was very satisfied with the Cyprus agreement,” he said concerning the recent English, Cyprus, Greek settlement. “Nasser is trying to diplomatically straddle the fence. He doesn't want to fall under the Commies or the West.

“I think India has done a lot since gaining independence,” stated the Earl, who was largely responsible in the negotiations for Indian autonomy. “They have some fine new schemes and have managed to do a good deal in the villages. The energy that once was centered in an irrational nationalism is now being turned into more constructive channels.”

Attlee then discussed the British attempts at socialism. “Nationalism is going very well but it is a slow process since there must also be a change in atmosphere. We have to progress when we want it; we go by rule of thumb, not by a blueprint laid down by Karl Marx.

“We're doing nicely in controlling the atom for industry. However, we're not in competition with anybody. You can hit the moon; we don't care.”

On education, the Earl said, “I don’t think the Western education should be completely technological. The trouble is at first you underrated Russia; now you overrate her.”

A true politician to the end, Attlee refrained from giving his opinions on segregation in the South and the race riots in Nyasaland and Rhodesia. He gasped “Oh, no!” when asked if he would comment on the American political situation.

Hamilton, Smith Vie for Top DAVIDSONIAN Post

Voting Begins Tuesday For Publication Heads

Three candidates will compete next Tuesday, March 24, for the editorship of the DAVIDSONIAN for the coming year. Ed Armfield, Jim Hamilton, and Dick Smith, all active members of the present newspaper staff, are contenders for the position. Armfield and Smith have served this year as managing editors, while Hamilton has been holding the position of sports editor. The platforms of the three candidates for the editorship are presented on page four of this paper.

Davidsonian Dines At Annual Banquet

The staff of the DAVIDSONIAN will present awards to outstanding members at a banquet Wednesday, March 25, at seven o'clock in the College Union Ballroom. Two awards, each consisting of a certificate of commendation and a ten-dollar prize, have been designated. The Grier Martin Award will be presented for the first time to the outstanding Freshman reporter; another award will be presented to the staff member, other than the Editor or Associate Editors, who has contributed the most to the publication during his years at Davidson. President Martin will speak briefly and present the award named in his honor. The name of the award is to recognize his close tie with the DAVIDSONIAN and to show the paper's appreciation for his work on its behalf throughout his years at Davidson. As an undergraduate, Martin was editor. Present Editor Laurens Walker will express his appreciation to the staff for its work this year. The purpose of this Annual Banquet is to provide an opportunity for the final summation of the year's accomplishments prior to the formation of a new staff upon the election of the Editor for 1959-60. All staff members and reporters of the DAVIDSONIAN have been invited. Awards will be granted by a vote of the Editor and Managing Editors.

Male Chorus Schedules 2,000 Mile Spring Tour

The Male Chorus will leave the campus on Saturday, April 11, for its annual tour. The thirty-member group will give a series of seven concerts. The choral arrangements will range from religious music to lighter selections, including pieces from the Broadway musical “My Fair Lady.” The type of music will depend on the place and nature of the occasion.

TRAVEL BY BUS

The Chorus will leave by Trailways Bus and will probably be in Winston-Salem Saturday night for a light concert. The itinerary will then lead to Charleston, West Virginia, where no definite plans have been made as yet concerning a concert schedule. Next, they will go to Toledo, Ohio, where three performances will be given in high schools in the area. Detroit is the next stop, where they will sing in the First Presbyterian Church. After this performance, the Chorus goes to Mary Baldwin College, where a joint concert will be given with the chorus there, and, finally, to Hollins College. The Chorus returns to Davidson on Saturday, April 18th. Although the trip will not be as long as some in previous years, it will cover a minimum of 2,000 miles. In the last eight years during this annual tour, twenty-three of the forty-nine states have been covered. These include Oklahoma, Texas, and almost every state east of the Mississippi River. Mr. T. C. Ingram of the Trailways Company will drive the bus, as he has done for the past twenty-six years of the tour. The members of the chorus will stay in the homes of sponsors in the cities that they visit. When asked for comment, Mr. Plott, director of the Male Chorus, stated, “This annual tour is always an excellent public relations move, because it makes Davidson known to many who have never heard of the college before.”

Dr. Donald Plott rehearses the Male Chorus every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. They will begin their annual spring tour April 11, which will cover 2,000 miles.

ANNUAL AND MAGAZINE

The head posts of the college annual and the literary magazine will also be at stake next week. Chris Bremer, John Glenn, and Bob Jones are running for editor of Quips and Cranks, while Charles Cornwell and Ed Spivey are vying for leadership of Scripts 'n Pranks. Voting will be held in chapel on Tuesday. Run-off balloting will follow on Thursday, also during chapel period. The positions will be determined by majority vote. The candidates were nominated last week by the Publications Board, composed of faculty representatives and the editor and business manager of the three publications. Statements by the contenders for the yearbook and magazine positions appeared in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN.

DAVIDSONIAN CONTENDERS

Armfield has supervised the second page of the paper this year. He is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity and Philanthropic Literary Society. Hamilton has been in charge of sports coverage as head of the third page. He has also served as co-sports editor of the Wildcat Handbook and is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. First and fourth pages have been the responsibility of Smith. He is in Alpha Tau Omega fraternity and is president of Sigma Pi Sigma, physics honorary. The new DAVIDSONIAN editor will assume his position with the first issue of the newspaper following spring holidays. Yearbook and magazine heads will not officially take office until next fall.

YEARBOOK CANDIDATES

Glenn, Bremer, and Jones have all worked on the annual this year. Bremer is the present business manager and is a member of the pre-medical, chemistry, and athletic honorary fraternities and Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Glenn, a member of Beta Theta Pi, has also worked on the DAVIDSONIAN and is in the Male Chorus. Jones is vice-president of the Chorus and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. The candidates for literary magazine head are both Assistants to the Editor this year. Cornwell, an ATO, belongs to Sigma Upsilon and Eumenean Literary Society. Spivey, an English honors student, is secretary of Sigma Upsilon.

Election Bulletin

Elections for 1959-60 class presidents were completed in after-chapel voting this morning. Dave Warden was elected President of the Senior Class yesterday morning. Tom Parker was elected President of the Junior Class, and Graham Allison, President of the Sophomore Class, this morning in a run-off race. Parker defeated Spiro Macris, and Allison edged out George Trask. Voting for Freshman Advisor, publications editors, and YMCA officers will begin Tuesday and continue on Wednesday and, if necessary, Thursday. Spring elections will resume after Spring Holidays, as Student Council representatives from each class will be chosen.