The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1959

But Why So Legitimate?

It is with much disappointment and question that we greet the announcement (page one) that the fraternity housing fee has, for the second time in as many semesters, gone up.

Our question is not on the fact that the college should be paid back its investment, or even that it should make some profit on the investment. The fact is that the college has made an investment which has enhanced its appearance, has raised its physical standards, and has done its fraternity system a big favor, and at the same time is receiving from the occupants of the houses an interest rate which is one-half to one per cent higher than the present rate on United States Government bonds, which are at their highest point since 1929.

Again, we don't question the right of the college to be paid for the use of its money. We only ask, “What is the relation between the college and its student body?” Does the college have an obligation to the students, or can it treat them collectively as an unknown borrower walking into a bank?

The college, it seems to us, is having its cake and eating it too, in that it has added to itself and is still getting paid for it. We hate to launch into arithmetic, however mild it may be, but it is only for the purpose of proving our point. Estimating eight hundred students paying forty-six dollars a year, we find that the total payment every year is some thirty-seven thousand dollars. At this rate of payment, the $420,000 debt, along with the five per cent interest each year on the amount still unpaid, will be completely returned in seventeen years. The total interest alone will have amounted to over two hundred thousand dollars.

If the student body had borrowed $420,000 to build its own court, it would have been theirs at the end of this time. But instead, the students will presumably keep paying the thirty-seven thousand dollars annually, which will be pure profit for the college, paid by the students.

We see the college's point. It is entitled to a legitimate return on its investment. But does the return have to be so legitimate?
—R.C.S.

True Spirit Of Giving

YMCA Treasurer Bob Denham assures us that it’s fact and not just our imagination that the Vespers’ Offering on the Sunday following a dance weekend is quite generous considering the sparse number in attendance. We noted with amazement Sunday that the collection plates were right side up, and we spied quite a few dollar bills. Guess the preachers are right about our material emphasis—some people think they can buy off anyone.
—E.M.A.

Realize Those “Fringe Benefits”

This week the DAVIDSONIAN initiates what will be a permanent policy of carrying the names of faculty members who will hold open house Sunday night after Vespers. (See page four).

One of the arguments for a small college which has appeared several times in these columns in our opposition to increased enrollment, is that a small school affords the opportunity for a close relationship between faculty and students. This is perhaps one of the most tangible of the “intangibles” that a small liberal arts institution has to offer.

The Sunday night open house is an excellent chance to realize one of Davidson's “fringe benefits.” It is one of the college's traditions that is well worth continuing. Such informal gatherings are opportunities to explore areas untouched in class, to discuss local, or world affairs, or just to get to know the man who delivers from the platform three or four times a week.

Student-faculty relations were somewhat strained during the last school year, but with the coming of the Martin Administration, and by the efforts of both groups, they are again reaching their proper equilibrium. The fraternities have strengthened the cause by inviting various members of the faculty and administration and their wives to their respective houses for a meal each week. From all reports this has been a worthwhile project.

Participation in the Sunday night program is just another way in which the trend toward better student-faculty relations can be continued. The DAVIDSONIAN hopes the members of the student body will take advantage of this unique opportunity and thereby enjoy one of the privileges that a small school provides.
—J.H.

Brains, Brawn And Blue Laws

One of the most antiquated and unreasonable rules imposed on us is the one which prohibits the opening of the gymnasium on Sunday afternoon.

It is a sign of the unwillingness of the present fathers of this institution to move from the position of the founding fathers. Years ago, when it was illegal to play tennis or throw a ball around the campus, the prohibition of gym activities was to be expected. Today it is not.

The library is open on Sunday afternoon, yet the gym is not. We recognize, and are quite proud of Davidson’s outstanding academic reputation; we are not proud of the fact that over half our freshmen class cannot pass the required Physical Education test. This fact lends itself too freely to a charge often leveled against the Davidson Gentleman.

We can see no logical argument against opening the gym on Sunday. To develop one’s body is no more to break the Sabbath than to develop one’s mind. Not only does the college employ people to check books in and out on Sunday, it also pays students to check attendance at our compulsory Sunday night religious function. To hire the few needed to open the gym is no more objectionable than these other necessary jobs.

The DAVIDSONIAN asks that the gym be opened on Sunday afternoon. It’s time to throw out this inconsistent rule and welcome in the new. It’s time to look and move forward.
—E.M.A.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Ed Armfield

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Dick Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Dave Gillis

Associate Editor
Jim Hamilton

Editorial Assistant
Bob Livingston

Managing Editors
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore

Sports Editor
B. Millner

News Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Charles Rose

Advertising Manager
Charlie Rowe

Circulation Mgr.
Albert McClure, Jr.

Ass’t. Business Manager
Redding Starling

"Y" PRESIDENT WRITES

Communication Barriers Must Be Surmounted By YMCA

The man I like is like me. My enemy differs from me. You can tell a man by the company he keeps; you could even say that a man is like the people he travels with, that he is what he is because of them. Therefore, I shall travel with the decent, with those like me; I cannot communicate my decency, my virtue, to others, for then I run the risk of losing it. I cannot be seen with those unlike myself.

Several months ago Doug Ballentine suggested that students begin to seek a solution for the problems of communication and isolation. The response to his suggestion was feeble. The fact that his finger pointed at the hollow heart of our life as a community may have contributed to our unwillingness to support him; he may have been too close to the truth.

FELLOWSHIP

The problem rests with us. The YMCA—as an open fellowship—should apply its resources toward the solution of this problem in the coming year. Indeed, the establishing of real communication among those of the total community might well be the goal of fraternities, denominational fellowships, the student council, and the administration.

MANY BARRIERS

The communication would be across many barriers. The economic barriers which separate the whole student body from those different from itself might be crossed in community service, in pledge projects beyond the campus, in personal visits to Barium Springs, in Negro Work. Social barriers within the campus community might be bridged through devices such as fraternity retreats, and informal gatherings on Sunday afternoon at Erwin Lodge. Intellectual barriers might be crossed through author programs, drama, through periods of special services on comparative religions and vocations, through expressed international concern. As paths between people and faiths became better traveled, we might begin to tackle the overpowering problem of spiritual barriers.

OBSTACLES CROSSED

To cross a barrier is not to conquer it, but it is the necessary first step. And besides, barriers do not need to be removed so much as to be crossed. Each of us has his supposed monopoly on virtue. Perhaps we can pool our various monopolies and come to an understanding of the nature of sin. Perhaps communication and regeneration will begin here.

Price Of Leadership
by ReddingGreg Grana
Assignments Editor
Copy Editor — Cartoonists

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Deep Appreciation, High Praise Voiced In This Week’s Letters

Dan Clemmer

Dear Editor:

The overwhelming response by the student body to the request for blood for Barbara Blews was appreciated both by our fraternity and by the Blews family. She received over 100 pints of blood in the blood drive Monday, but all of this is not now needed. The number of pints charged against her at present will be erased and she will have a surplus for her further use. As was stated last week, the amount she does not use will remain in the Charlotte blood bank for use in this area.

Many students have shown their concern for this drive by asking about the response to our request. This is indicative of the fact that students are more interested in donating to some specific person than to an anonymous recipient. If there were more specific requests for blood, the turnout at the bloodmobile would probably be greater.

The Blews family wishes to thank all of those who participated in the blood drive for Barbara and is sorry that they will be unable to thank all the students individually. Members of their church and friends of the family have been donating blood to her for some time; but because of the length of her illness, the amount charged against her has again increased.

Dan Clemmer
President, Sigma Phi Epsilon

John Horton

Dear Editor:

Now and then a letter comes to our office which we believe is of interest to all students. Such a letter, from a Greensboro newsman who visited Davidson for the inauguration recently, arrived this week. I am quoting it below for use in your columns:

“Wanted to write you to thank you for your help but most of all to tell you something I took back with me.

“As I may have told you, education is my beat and I’ve been to schools and colleges all over the state for any number of reasons. I found Davidson to be one of the cleanest, loveliest campuses I have ever seen... only Bennet comes close and Dr. Benjamin Fine once said in the New York Times that Bennet was the most beautiful small campus in the country.

“But what impressed me most was an intangible thing that quite escapes me when it comes to saying it in black and white.

“It just appeared to me that there was a difference in Davidson students; a certain something that sets them apart from the young men I see at Carolina, Guilford, or Catawba.

“They looked neat — something quite rare these days; they were more than courteous — a quality fast disappearing.

“There seemed to be in all of them a certain pride that they were Davidson students. I almost had the feeling that some of them might have been gloating (and I wouldn’t blame them) and ready to say: ‘I go to Davidson... where did you say you went?’

“But most of all it was their demeanor, their attitude. I can’t put my finger on it but maybe you understand...

“My best wishes to you and Davidson.

Sincerely,
Lane Kerr”

Mr. Kerr also expressed appreciation to “Sam,” a helpful student whose name he could not remember, asking me to convey his thanks to the student for his kindness.

John Horton
Director of Alumni and Public Relations

The most important new fact about the U.S. South in the spring of 1959: burgeoning North Carolina has quietly taken over the mantle of Southern leadership that Virginia wore so long, so proudly. Over the South’s best highway net, semi-trailers snort day and night to serve a state economy so vigorous that it kept right on growing through the last recession. North Carolina has been developed with uncommon imagination. Business leaders have endowed well-paid professorial chairs, set up string-free foundations, protected professors back at the alma mater from the political censorship common to state-supported Southern schools.

PEANUTS
By Schulz

I DON'T SHARE MY PAD WITH ANYONE!

With Passover Gone, S. & G. Breathe Easier

We couldn’t help breathing a little sigh of relief when Passover ended. The annual feast, which began on the eve of 15 Nisan, ’59 and lasted until yesterday, is consistently a jittery time for some of us first-born, especially with the SPCA breathing down your neck every time you try to slaughter a lamb.

Stop now, Selma. You know we didn’t make the deadline last week because of that...

We think critics should stop harping on this bit about students whistling at the speakers in Chapel. They don’t realize how much personal anguish they are causing a few people out there. In Chapel, Selma sits next to a fat slob with very narrow nostrils who, although he’s jovial, emits a shrill, piercing whistle every time he exhales. The surest way to hurt someone's feelings is to make light of his physical deformities; this is in a class with tripping gimps or sending apples to the dysentery ward. So let’s ease up on the criticism and try to spare their dignity. They are perfect gentlemen except when they breathe.

Our sincere sympathies are extended to the alumni relations department and attached personnel, who, during the course of the inaugural festivities, became so enthusiastic that they exceeded the 360-degree grin limit and decapitated themselves.

Even more appalling was the case of one of the leading officials who made such a herculean effort that he was drawn and quartered; this was fortunate, however, in that it put him out of his misery over a hernia incurred earlier in the day. Smiling can be hell. I guess it’s the price one has to pay for leadership in the field.

I finally persuaded Selma to junk her new spring outfit, which she bought especially for the dance weekend. It was gray; that seemed to be her favorite color last week. She claimed it made her feel more at ease when she was with the boys. The dress was from Alcoa, the crinolines were from American Wire, and the lingerie was from U.S. Army Ordnance (high explosive anti-tank). She weighed 500 pounds when she got it all on, but she was insistent about the whole thing. What was even worse, all the girls in her dorm were snatching up their own armor. Looks like I don’t need that can opener any more, Selma.

Pope John's Reign Starts With Change
By JOHN STONE

Events have lately focused much attention on the Papacy. A great Pope has died; his successor shows signs of greatness. The two, however, are not necessarily alike. Pope Pius XII was a nobleman; John XXIII is of peasant stock. Public appearances of the Pope have been relatively infrequent in the past, but John XXIII likes to circulate among the people. Both Popes have been Italians.

While John XXIII has reigned for only a short time, a number of important events have taken place. One of these has been the calling of an ecumenical Council at the Lateran Palace for 1960. The last such Council was in 1870, at which the doctrine of Papal infallibility was fully enunciated. The Council of 1960 may have several things on its agenda. There has been much speculation that John XXIII wants to reunite certain portions of Christendom, particularly the Eastern or Greek Orthodox Church, with the Roman Catholic Church. Protestant Churches, in addition, have been invited. The viewpoint of the Orthodox Church, however, seems to be that there can be no union until at least the dogma of Papal infallibility is repealed. Often unexpected things have come from Church Councils, and this one may be interesting.

Another action of the Pope, one which may culminate in the Council in 1960, is the attempt to define more carefully the Catholic attitude toward Communism. At first, observers felt that John XXIII might ease the strained relations between the Church and Communism. In view of some more recent actions, however, this has been questioned.

While the Catholics east of the Iron Curtain may be somewhat more free in their dealings with the various Communist governments, in the West a precedent has been set by the Papal denunciation of a popular front between the Communists and the Social Democrats in Sicily. But the full answer to all these problems has not yet been spelled out.