THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Cats Host King Tomorrow

Vols Trample Cagers For First Setback

Davidson’s young Wildcats will be gunning for revenge and their second win of the week when they meet King College here tomorrow night. A tough University of Tennessee quintet whipped Tom Scott’s crew 102-68 in Knoxville last night. The 'Cats won their opening game, 73-59, Tuesday against Pfeiffer College. The race horse Vols fast-broke Davidson to death, while the Wildcats made too many mistakes of their own to stay within hailing distance. The score at halftime was 54-33 in favor of Tennessee. Jerry Bussell was high man for the game with 18 points. For Davidson, John Huie had 14, Jim Nuckolls 12, Joe Markee 8, and Bill Shinn 6. Shinn was hampered by a severely cut chin. Big Dalen Showalter had 16 for the Vols, followed by forward Eddie Test with 15 points.

King suffered a narrow loss to Carson-Newman, 88-73, last week and the Wildcats will be out to avenge last season's upset loss to King. According to Davidson Assistant Coach Joe Hunt, King is “aggressive—hustling all the way. They don’t know when to quit.” Star player is 6'4" forward Bob Hoyer. Other starters here tomorrow will be center David Ridenhour, guards Gene Hensley and David Russell, and forward Tom Lewis.

The Catawba Indians are on tap for Tuesday here in Johnston Gymnasium. Losing by only one point to powerful Belmont Abbey, the Indians have become the surprise team of the North State Conference. They ripped Pfeiffer, 89-57, while the Wildcats could manage merely a 14-point victory over the Panthers. Stout on the outside, Catawba runs a double post offense with forwards Bob Flynn and Clifton Chalk. And with center Horace Medford, 6-6, the Indians are “tougher than a boot,” says Davidson coach Tom Scott.

Tuesday night against Pfeiffer the Cats showed a well-balanced attack. Bussell, Shinn, Markee, and Nuckolls all hit for 14 points. Behind them were John Huie and Ed Stewart, with nine and eight respectively. Stewart and Markee both pulled down ten rebounds, and Shinn had nine. For Pfeiffer, Frye had 18 points and Smith 17. The Frosh also defeated Pfeiffer, and the coaches are looking for them to equal or better the mark of last year's fine freshman team. The Wildkittens started George Sledge and Nat Harris at forwards, Bill Jarman at center, and Haywood Evans and Johnny Rodgers at guards. Jarman poured in 39 points.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1959

SIDELINES ON SPORTS

By B. MILLNER

FALL SPORTS WRAP-UP

COACH BILL DOLE, trying to put a 1-8 season behind him, journeyed north this week in search of new talent for next year. Before he left, Dole looked back on our poorest season since '53 and explained why it all happened that way. The main problem was, of course, an acute lack of depth. “We had six freshmen this year who could have lettered playing varsity ball,” he said. “(Alec) Gibbs, (Bob) Cordie, (Carl) Hunt, (Dick) Voorhees, (Eddie) Crutchfield, and (Joe) Ansley would have helped us an awful lot.”

DOLE’S BIG WORRY NOW is how to get six more scholarships. The Southern Conference freshmen eligibility ruling dealt Davidson football a telling blow. Although nine valuable seniors will graduate, Dole foresees a little more depth next fall, although the crisis is far from past. In fact, if more scholarship aid isn’t found somewhere, the crisis may become a permanent one. Injuries hurt something terrible. If Benson hadn’t gotten hurt, if Warden’s ankle... in fact, the whole season was a series of “ifs,” according to Dole. If Davidson could have played like they played against Catawba every Saturday afternoon they would have been a winning team... “if that bad interference call hadn’t been made against us in the Citadel game, we'd have been off to the races... if we could have gotten some breaks against Wofford...”

WHEN A TEAM begins to lose it makes mistakes. And losses and mistakes begin to roll up like a big snowball—and that’s what happened to Davidson this year. Coach Dole said before the season started that we would be lucky to win three games this fall. And we weren't lucky.

* * *

A SOCCER TEAM that wasn’t supposed to go anywhere ran over everybody it played except two Atlantic Coast Conference teams that were nationally ranked. With a meager bench and a tough schedule, Paul Marrotte’s crew called on a wealth of hustle and guts when the chips were down. They lost only to U.N.C. (twice) and State, and considered the State loss an upset. The soccer squad was certainly the most exciting team in the fall sports trio. All-star goalie Claude Finney was elected Captain of the 1960 squad, which departing Captain Ward McKeithen says should be simply “great.”

* * *

COACH HEATH WHITTLE’S harriers could have won a conference championship with a little luck, but David Gilmour had a cold and Mack Brownlee was sick and it was up to Bill Eckbert to hold the overall lead.

Pfeiffer Clemson Dunked In Wildcat Pool

By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's powerful swimming team kicked off its 1959-60 season in convincing fashion as the Catfish splashed to an easy 56-29 win over Clemson here yesterday afternoon. Davidson won seven of ten swimming events and placed second and third in diving. Returning to the Davidson pool this fall are a number of long-winded swimmers who broke eight of the school’s ten all-time records in 1958 and merited the ‘Cats a third place in the Southern Conference meet. Tom Hudgins paced the Catfish with wins in the 220 and 440 free-styles. Bill Hellier won the 50-yard free-style and Barry Branch breezed to a first place in the 100-yard free-style. Smitty Smith and Stephan Young stroked to easy wins in the 200-yard backstroke and 200-yard breast-stroke, respectively.

* * *

Cats Draw Duke For Mat Opener

By BILL THOMPSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College wrestling team opens its 1959-1960 season next Wednesday against Duke University at Durham. This will be the first time in five years that the ‘Cats have met Duke on the mats. Coach Charlie Parker said that nothing is known about the Blue Devil squad except that they have very good men in the heavyweight and 147-pound classes.

PROSPECTS GOOD

“We ought to do better this year,” Parker said. “We should be stronger overall.” The team’s depth, which was a serious problem last year, has been greatly strengthened by a fine freshman team and the return of several key wrestlers. Captain Bill Shinn, who wrestles in the 157-pound class, will lead the team. Shinn, a junior, was the only Davidson wrestler to win a match against the University of North Carolina last year. Other sophomores who should greatly strengthen the team are Newt Burns, Wyndell Merritt, Tom Lucas, Tommy Brown, Buddy Brauch, and Phil Brown.

House, Anderson, Benson Selected

Close Phi Delts To Defend I-F Swimming Title

The Interfraternity swim meet, third event on the intramural calendar, will be held in Johnston gym next Tuesday and Wednesday. Current I-F standings find the Phi Delts leading the pack, followed by the Kappa Sigs and the ATOs. The Phi Delts are defending champions and are expected to repeat.Carry the load in the conference meet at Richmond. Eckbert amazed everybody by finishing third and Davidson pulled up fourth. Eckbert, who worked at it all summer, had certainly become the most improved athlete at Davidson. He and Gilmour made All-Conference and Coach Whittle had one of his best teams here. With some fine freshmen on hand, it should be even better next year.

A SPRING SPORT man, Coach Teddy Keesler, has done one of the finest coaching jobs of the fall. Keesler did what his predecessor, Dick McKee, was never able to do. He organized a smoothly running fall tennis practice which lasted until the middle of November. Fall practice culminated two weeks ago with a match with an “all-star” team from the Charlotte Tennis Association. Playing some of the top amateurs in North Carolina, Keesler’s boys were edged 7-5.

The 400-yard medley relay team of Smith, John Scott, George Gabel, and Branch also won. The Catfish stretch deep in every category, particularly freestyle, and mainly because of an outstanding second-year crop. Heading the list is Barry Branch, whom Coach Shoe calls “our strongest point.” Branch competed yesterday in the 440-yd. medley relay, the 50-yd. freestyle, and the 100-yd. freestyle. “If we can get good times from George Gabel (a top sprinter) and Branch, we should do all right this year,” Shoe anticipated. Davidson swimmers will have to do a bang-up job from here on out, however, to surpass their 1958 record of seven wins.

New cigarette paper “air-softens” every puff. Salem's amazing new HIGH POROSITY paper “air-softens” every puff. Invisible porous openings blend just the right amount of air with each puff to give you a softer, fresher, even more flavorful smoke. MORE THAN EVER, an important breakthrough in Salem’s research laboratories brings you this special new High Porosity paper which breathes new freshness into the flavor. Each puff on a Salem draws just enough menthol fresh, rich tobacco taste, modern filter, too.

Captain Bob Wynne was their lone loss to graduation. Co-captains this fall are backstroker Tom Smith, Bill Hellier, and John Scott, a butterfly man. Smith, nursing a cold, has missed quite a few practices, and his timing, according to Coach Shoe, is 17 seconds off. Junior Tom Hudgins, who owns Davidson record times in the 220-yd. and 440-yd. freestyle events, should anchor the squad. Said Coach Shoe, “I think he'll break those records again by the end of the season.” In breaststroke competition, the ‘Cats are bolstered by sophomores Herbie Collins and Stephen Young. Diving artist Jennings Snider is backed up by sophomore Bill Whittington.

The Phi Delts, who have won the swim meet for the past three years, are favored to take the meet and thus increase their slim lead in the present standings. The Sigma Chis, Betas, and Kappa Sigs are also potential victors in this meet, which should be marked by very sharp competition. Last year the Phi Delts won five of eight events, with Barry Branch smashing three intramural records. Branch, a sophomore mainstay for the varsity tankers, will be ineligible this year. The events will include the following: 25, 50, and 75-yard freestyle, 50-yard backstroke, 50-yard breaststroke, 75 and 150-yard medley, and 200-yard relay. No one person will be able to enter more than three events. The time schedule, which was a serious problem last season, should be much improved due to support from the freshman team. Because of a lack of entries in the lower weight classes, the Wildcat varsity was forced to default several times last year. They finished the season with a record of four wins and five losses.

With the results of the Wrestling Tournament having been tabulated, the Phi Delts continue to hold their lead in the I-F intramural race by a slim margin over the SAE’s. Their victory in wrestling enabled the Phi Gams to move up to third place within easy striking distance of the top spot. The Betas dropped from second to fifth and the Sigma Chis hold the fourth spot. Present standings are:

Current Official Standings:
Phi Delts 160 82 242
SAE 128 105
Phi Gams 92 130 222
Sigma Chis 149 56 205
Kappa Sig 139 49 188
Kappa Alpha 100 43 143
Pi Kapps 83 59 142
ATO 83 55 138
Pika 66 46 112
SPE 83 13 96
Sigma Nu 50 35 85
Independents 75 3 78

Coach Parker has three experienced mat-men returning in Milton Gee, Alex Porter, and Jim Allen. Only one of these, heavyweight Porter, however, will see action against Duke. An injury will keep Allen out of competition until the second semester, and Gee, because of an injured leg, may miss the match with the University of North Carolina as well as the one with Duke.

Among the sophomores who will be counted upon heavily this year are Butch LeDoyen in the 157-pound class and Jim Alexander in the 177-pound class. As freshmen, LeDoyen won all of his matches but one which ended in a tie, and Alexander was undefeated.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Just Received
Nice Selection
Of SHIRTS FOR WOMEN
That Would Make Nice
Do Your Christmas Shopping Before Vacation
At Bush Wilson Ltd.

For Honor Squads, Danny House, Charlie Benson, and Frank Anderson have been named to positions on the all-conference team. House was chosen for the second team while Benson and Anderson received honorable mention. House completed the season with 44 receptions, breaking the old conference record of thirty-six. He also led the conference in total yardage gained by pass receptions. House also rated an honorable mention on the Associated Press Little All-American squad. Quarterback Benson finished the season in third place in total offense for the conference and fourth in passing offense—Dyer of VMI, who almost beat Davidson single-handed with his rapier-like passing, was named as the first team quarterback for the all-star squad. Anderson was the Southern Conference lineman of the week after his performance in the Citadel game, the ‘Cat’s third contest of the season.

CURLEY (DUNCAN HINES) MacQUEEN ENDORSES
Hugo's Davidsontown Mall
Where you shop in un-tropical splendor.
This Political Advertisement paid for by BOBO & PATTERSON