‘Cats Still Seeking First Conference Win (See Page Three)

VOL. XLVI

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1959

Trend Toward More Liberal Cut Policies (See Page Two)

NUMBER EIGHT

Students Vote Overwhelmingly

“I’m Not Sure That We Can Do Anything!” Moans A Dejected Dee

The Student Council will conduct an open forum meeting on the drinking problem on November 16

By LEE KIRBY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The forum, to take place in the Ballroom of the Student Union, will include members of the faculty and administration, as well as the presidents of the twelve social fraternities. The forum was initiated by the Council at its meeting Monday, November 2, in the Blue Room of the Student Union. Vespers conduct and the Court of Control were also discussed.

The forum on drinking will be part of the regular Student Council meeting, and student opinion will be encouraged. The topic will include drinking and campus problems related to drinking and the drinking rule. At this meeting, President Dee Green suggested for consideration the topics of drinking, curriculum, required religious exercises, and school spirit. It was pointed out that drinking is probably the strongest issue that could be studied. Some members were reluctant to begin with a discussion of drinking, however, since they felt that the Council was unable to do anything about it, faculty opinion being conservative. “I’m not sure that we can do anything!” Green replied. The drinking issue was finally selected in hope that a better understanding can be developed between the faculty and the student body. The group scheduled a meeting for Monday, November 9, to plan for the open forum.

The Council had held a meeting Thursday, October 29 to take action on Vespers conduct. At that time the group enacted a motion by D. G. Martin to place Vespers conduct under Section One of the Student Body Regulations. Section One forbids conduct unbecoming a gentleman while on the campus. President Green announced this decision in Chapel on Friday, October 30. The Council was reminded Monday night to report violations to the officers of the student body.

Dean Johnston Favors Unlimited Cut System

“I have long felt that I would rather see an unlimited cut system here at Davidson than the one we presently have.” These were the words of Dean of the Faculty, Frontis W. Johnston, as he confronted the DAVIDSONIAN with his views on a liberalized cut system in a staff interview Wednesday afternoon.

“I believe that only upperclassmen should have the privilege of unlimited cuts,” he continued. “Also I think that the twenty-five percent rule should remain in effect. If such a new system were initiated, the students would have to realize that the chips would fall where they would and that we'd lose some customers. It would make the student more and more responsible for his own education if the coercive restraints were removed, and this would probably result in some fatalities. However, I'm not interested in a new system just to remove the chaff from the wheat. I'm in favor of it because I think it would make the student's attitude toward learning fundamentally different.

“Also I think that such a system would be a challenge to the teachers. They would no longer have a captive audience and would therefore have to really be on their toes. Of course,” he quipped, “nothing in the world would alter some teacher's methods. This might be true of myself.”

The present cut system is somewhat illogical. It does not realize that there are some classes that a student needs to attend more than others. Also, after quality points have been lost when, in most cases, the student has taken five cuts, no further penalty is inflicted until the student has violated the twenty-five percent rule. Some of my colleagues disagree violently with me concerning my views on this subject. They argue that the typical student is not mature enough to warrant a liberalized cut policy such as I favor. Well, I would agree with my colleagues that students are not mature. But I believe that one way to cultivate maturity is to give them responsibility. In a new system with a liberalized policy on cuts, the professors and students would be parts of a team, both trying to learn. Now, the teacher is considered more of an enemy that demands the student's presence in his class.

ODK Taps Seven Students and a Charlotte Business Executive

At the sound of the gavel in Tuesday's chapel, Davidson Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, tapped seven students and a Charlotte business executive into its membership. The 1959 Fall tapping followed a speech on leadership by Sheldon P. Smith, General Manager of the Charlotte branch of Douglas Aircraft Company. Tapped for ODK membership were Bob Avinger, Charlie Benson, George Hart, Dave McCullough, Larry McNeill, Tom Ridenhour, Tom Price, and Mr. Sheldon Smith. Prior to the ceremony, ODK President Dabney Stuart stated that the initiates were selected primarily on the basis of character. Bob Avinger, a Business major from Columbia, S.C., is the current holder of the A. K. Phifer Scholarship, an annual award recognizing distinguished work in economics. He is also president of Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

Miss Furman Ivey, of Columbia College, representing Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, is presented as the first annual Homecoming Queen at half-time of the Wofford game. President Martin presented her on behalf of the IFC. (Photo by Rose)

To Favor Liberalized Cut Policy

Diversified Opinions On Method Employed

By TOM COLVIN
Davidsonian News Editor

The student body, in an overwhelming show of solidarity, voted in favor of a liberalized cut policy during chapel Tuesday morning. The poll, taken by the DAVIDSONIAN to determine student opinion on this issue, was completed by 613 of the students who attended chapel. This number represents approximately two-thirds of the entire student body. A faculty poll was also taken. Of the 613 students polled, 562, or about 61 percent of the student body, were in favor of a more liberal cut policy. Fifty students, or about five percent of the student body, stated that they were content with the present system, while one student was in favor of a stricter cut policy. One hundred and eighty-three indicated that they were in favor of a liberalized cut system for all students. Sixty-six of these felt that unlimited cuts should be granted regardless of grades. One hundred and twenty-nine thought that cuts should be granted according to grades. However, opinion was divided as to how grades should determine the number of cuts. Many of these students felt that unlimited cuts should be given to those making a certain grade (grades specified ranged from C to A). People falling below this grade would remain under the present system, while one student was in favor of a stricter cut policy. One hundred and eighty-three indicated that they were in favor of a liberalized cut system for all students. Sixty-six of these felt that unlimited cuts should be granted regardless of grades. One hundred and twenty-nine thought that cuts should be granted according to grades. However, opinion was divided as to how grades should determine the number of cuts. Many of these students felt that unlimited cuts should be given to those making a certain grade (grades specified ranged from C to A). People falling below this grade would remain under the present system.

Freshman Council Chooses Officers

Seventeen out of twenty representatives of the Class of 1963 met Wednesday night to elect officers. Alec Morgan, from Atlanta, Georgia, is president of the Freshman Council. He is pledged to Beta Theta Pi fraternity. Secretary-Treasurer is Ken Kelley, a Phi Delta Theta pledge, from Jacksonville, Florida.Social fraternity, and vice-president of the Senior Class. Charlie Benson, a senior from Maitland, Fla., is taking History honors as a pre-law student. He is co-captain of the 1959 football team, a member of Eumenean Literary Society, senior representative on the Student Council, a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity, and winner of the C. T. Stowe Memorial Award for athletes outstanding in scholarship. George Hart, a senior from Charlotte, is a member of the Honor Council, the “D” Club, Sigma Chi social fraternity, and has shown outstanding ability in football, baseball, and IFC basketball. Dave McCullough, a pre-med major from Lincolnton, N. C., is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-med fraternity, Kappa Sigma social fraternity, the Beaver Club, the YMCA, the “D” Club, and is a varsity football letterman. Larry McNeill, a senior from Raeford, is a letterman in cross-country, a member of the varsity basketball, baseball, and track teams, a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and the Honor Council. Tom Price, a pre-med major from Florence, S. C., is president of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, Secretary-Treasurer of the Senior Class, a member of Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-med fraternity, Eumenean Society, the YMCA, and the soccer team. Tom Ridenhour, a senior from Concord, is a member of the YMCA Cabinet, the wrestling team, Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity.

Mr. Sheldon Smith is General Manager of Douglas Aircraft Company’s Charlotte branch. He graduated from Pomona College and studied under fellowship grants at Pomona and Dartmouth. During the Second World War, he was employed in the Navy's guided missile program and since that time has been concerned with missile development.

The Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, recognized six seniors this week for outstanding scholastic achievement. Bobby Avinger, Pete Kellogg, Sung Kyu Kim, Fred Lane, Bobby Livingston, and Bob Morrison accepted invitations for membership. Bobby Avinger, of Columbia, S. C., is majoring in economics. This year he is serving as vice-president of the senior class and president of Beta Theta Pi. A member of the Business-Economics Association, he has been a member of the yearbook staff, Eumenean Literary Society, and the Freshman Council. Pete Kellogg, of Winston-Salem, is majoring in psychology and math, and plans to become a teacher. A Union Carbide Scholar, he is secretary of ATO social fraternity. He has served as secretary of Eumenean Literary Society and feature editor of the DAVIDSONIAN. Sung Kyu Kim, of Ridgeway, S. C. and Soonchun, Korea, is working toward his B.S. degree and also plans to enter the teaching profession. He is a member of Sigma Pi Sigma and Eumenean Literary Society. Fred Lane, of Winston-Salem, is a pre-med major. A senior representative on the Student Council, he is a member of Delta Phi Alpha, Alpha Epsilon Delta, Scabbard and Blade, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary fraternities. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Bobby Livingston, of Sebring, Fla., is doing honors in history. Last spring he served as captain of the Davidson College Bowl team. He is presently chairman of the Honor Court and has served on the Student Council in past years. He was treasurer of the YMCA for two years. Bob Morrison, of Columbia, S. C., is majoring in chemistry. A Chemstrand Scholarship winner, he is treasurer of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, president of Philanthropic Literary Society, and secretary of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He has also been a member of the band and Delta Phi Alpha.

Stuart, of Richmond, Va., was recognized for membership last spring, making seven members at the present time. The national society's constitution and the local chapter’s by-laws are used in determining to whom bids shall be extended. All prospective members must satisfy all the conditions, which include a definite length of enrollment at the college in question and a minimum scholastic average. A chapter may not recognize more than twelve and a half percent of a particular class. In determining averages, there is no differentiation between three and four-hour courses. All are calculated on the basis of three hours. ROTC courses are not considered in the Phi Beta averages.