MOVIE TONIGHT AT 8
on Union Terrace

ALL MY SONS - with
Burt Lancaster

ADULTS ONLY 21+

BRING YOUR OWN POPCORN.

Davidson College, Davidson

GAMES FOR GOOD-OLDS AND GENIUSES

Contrary to popular belief, Davidson College uses its endowment fund, which is well over $5,000,000, for things other than new science halls, library wings, and dormitories. The student's welfare is of prime importance to the administration.

This fact is brought home to us, the chosen few, attending summer school. Mr. C. Shaw Smith and his staff have shown this interest by the purchasing of a multitude of new games.

Listed below are a few of these mental and physical games which have been made available for the student body.

Outside Games:
1) Scoop Ball (known the world over as Hailai) - This game is played much on the order of hand-ball except that a scoop-shaped glove is used and an opponent takes the place of the wall.

2) Wiffle Ball - This frustrating sport is played much like baseball except that the batter is at a distinct disadvantage because the pitcher is given a ball which is almost impossible to hit.

3) Tether Ball - This ingenious game is played by trying to wrap a ball and string around a pole so that your opponent is left with nothing to swing at.

4) Frisbee and Football are also offered, the latter for Duke's next year hopefuls--(Right, Hog?)

If a rainy day should set itself upon Davidson's fair campus, our athletes may keep in shape with the following indoor sports:

1) A new bowling set which may be set up in the ballroom.
2) And of course the old games of hockey, ping pong, and billiards.

Be Sure To See the Display in the Union Lobby of the Recent Published Works of the Davidson Faculty.

Now we must mention a few of the mental twisters that the Union has acquired.

1) Naturally Bridge, Chess, and Checkers are available for those who are too old to acquire new interests.

2) Toss Words - This game is purely a game of chance with the ability to spell coming in handy. The game is played by tossing lettered dice on a table, floor, or steps and then trying to spell words using the letters turned up. The Union offers a steak dinner to the first person being able to spell out: "D.C. College Union."

3) Gettysburg - A Civil War game which sets up problems to be solved by our MSI and History 61 students. (See Major I. D. Kelly for instructions.)

4) Kwazy Quilt - It's hard - and a prize for being the first to solve it has been awarded to Wells and Mac.

5) Why - A new mystery game, much like Clue, which was originated by Alfred Hitchcock for his TV enthusiasts.

6) Also Hako ("Anyone who will take a dare will play Hako"), Scrabble (a spelling game), Po-ke-no, and Dr. K. Q. Jump (Too much to describe - just try it!)

And lastly the Union offers two new games for those who want to be alone - or who have no friends - or who are tired of the friends that they have:

1) Solitaire Bridge - a new game devised by Goren.

2) Plus a new Gyroscope (You say it's broken now, Huffaker! How about it?)

Come on over and try out these new games. We would enjoy explaining these games to you and seeing you too!