~PLAYBOY

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. June 1959

UNION COMMITTEE ORGANIZES

The nucleus of the Union's Recreation and Management Committee met Monday afternoon to consider the possibilities for extracurricular activities for the summer session students here at Davidson. Tournaments, contests, dances, movies, and social get-togethers were the categories decided upon to work on.

Frank (Hog) Anderson has taken charge of the Sports Dept., which will possibly include a tennis tournament and a Student-Faculty Softball Game.

Gwen Jordan and Lucia Lumms are in charge of the Dance Committee, which will plan and execute a formal dance this session.

In charge of the Movie Committee is U. D. Nelly, who is selecting flicks which will be shown once a week at the Union.

WELCOME CONFERENCE

If you've noticed strange faces on campus since Monday and are wondering if Davidson has become coed - let me set you straight. The Presbyterian Young People's Conference has arrived in full force on Davidson's campus.

We welcome these young folks and hope that their conference will be meaningful and enjoyable.

Very graciously, the leaders of the conference have invited any and all of the summer school students to participate in their recreation from 8:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. every evening.

NOTICE

The Snack Bar will be open for sandwiches from 5:30 to 6:30 on Saturday night.

SCOOP SHEET

Your editor has noticed that several D. C. boys have been enjoying this Youth Conference more than others. To mention but a few - Al Crymble, D. T. Avery, Tommy French, Ed Houser, C. M. Reed, and many others who are too shy to introduce themselves to these cute girls...

Will someone please donate a razor blade to the John Cooley Barber Association!

It is rumored that George Kirkpatrick is having a hard time deciding between feline and canine species.

Since the conference arrived, it's easy to see which side of the Murchison family has the good looks. Right, Malcolm?

Richard Rieger, Jim Taylor, C. M. Reed, and Hog Anderson seen leaving campus for Mooresville at least three times a week - aren't you boys tired of that movie yet?

D. L. Garvin, John Brooke, Allen Paul, Knox Finlay, "Buddy" Crymble, and P. D. Miller have been seen just leaving...

The editor is wondering... what grade has Mrs. Labban been making in Dr. Labban's class this semester?

REMINDER

Don't forget the movie Friday and Saturday nights at 8 o'clock - "Odd Man Out."

Take advantage of this free and enjoyable entertainment. If it isn't raining, the movie will be shown on the Union Terrace.

"Cold, Hon?"
" 'Bout to freeze."
"Want my coat?"
"Just the sleeves."

Anon