Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1959
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Alumni Quarterbacks Dip Colors

Moderation, in the guise of a carefully explanatory, persuasively politic President Martin, won a battle at the recent meeting of
the Athletic Council. Actually, according to an informed source, there wasn’t much opposition to the status quo. Wildcat Club members
did present a resolution calling for increased athletic grants, but when Dr. Martin and Dean Frontis Johnston pointed out that
the athletic program benefited greatly from the present arrangement, and stood to realize even greater benefits as the Living Endowment
Fund grew, they quickly dipped their colors and forgot about the resolution.

The alumni are to be congratulated for their conciliatory attitude and evident willingness to work with renewed efforts toward the
$200,000, 1960 goal of the Living Endowment. It is true that if such a goal is reached the number of
football scholarships would increase by ten, but if these men become interested in working for Davidson for this reason, or
any reason, we can only applaud them.

Frankly, we are not entirely satisfied with the situation as it was left after the meeting of the Athletic Council.
Ideally, Davidson needs a program of “amateur athletics.” Coach Bill Dole has the same ideal. At the present time, as
Coach Dole is quick to point out, such a program is not at all feasible. Scheduling difficulties are the biggest
problem; if Davidson went to an “amateur” status there just wouldn’t be anyone to play. The only possible alternative to
the present set-up would be a football and basketball conference composed wholly of schools not operating on athletic scholarships. This
would be a Southern counterpart of the Ivy League, and would include such schools as Washington and Lee and the
University of the South (Sewanee), which have already given up subsidized athletics. This would be ideal, and should be kept
in mind as a future goal. Many major changes, however, would have to take place in alumni and trustee attitudes
before such a goal could be realized, and additional difficulties in the organization of the league would have to be
overcome.

Considering the practical factors, we have about the best program possible; that is if it remains as it is. Any
attempt to “keep up with the football crazy Jones” of the Conference would be a mistake.

The most encouraging development on the athletic scene is the attitude of President Martin, an up to now unknown quantity.
Judging from information the DAVIDSONIAN received, Dr. Martin seems to be firmly in the ranks of those who want to
keep athletics at Davidson sane. We hope that over the years he will receive not only faculty, but strong alumni
support for his position.

“Y” In Danger

We have neither the qualifications nor the inclination to say what is wrong with the present YMCA. Probably the matter
involves many factors and influences too subtle for anyone to fully evaluate. But the fact remains: the “Y” has slipped.
Reverend Staples tacitly admitted it this morning; Cabinet Members agree, and the testimony of a staggering Gift Fund drive, the
abandonment of membership meetings, and flagging student interest prove the point all too well.

Up until now there has been a disturbing attitude prevalent in YMCA circles that “everything is all right.” Reverend Staples
spoke frankly Wednesday, refreshingly frankly for a member of the administration, and admitted that the situation was something less than
satisfactory. Now is the time for all concerned with the status of the YMCA on the campus to take their
heads out of the sand and think realistically about an organization that is in definite danger of fading completely from
the campus scene.

Bringing College Up To Par

Slowly, but steadily, the quality of the course offerings at Davidson is being brought up to par with that of
the better schools of our type. The latest milestone in this development is the curriculum revisions that have taken place
in mathematics and physics. As with other recent curriculum improvements, this one also received its impetus from within the departments
concerned, taking the form of adjusting the rather antiquated existing courses to the variations in capability and preparation among students
and to the changes in these subjects themselves and the purposes for which they are being taught.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ASSISTANT EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editors
Charles Chastain
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey
Managing Editors
Ed Armfield
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks
Sports Editor
Feature Editor
News Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

The innovations in the Mathematics Department have been foreshadowed by developments in the last two or three years, but the
revisions in Physics, which has in recent years come to be regarded as one of the weakest departments on the
campus, came as a welcome surprise. Equally noteworthy is the fact that the two departments cooperated closely in their actions,
in order to facilitate the use of mathematics in physics courses and to get physics and engineering students started on
advanced work sooner.

Perhaps the most important features of the new program are the separation of students planning advanced work from those who
wish only an introduction to the principles and foundations of the subject, and the readjustments which will allow highly qualified
students to advance quickly and far. These new courses will do much to make more palatable the required courses in
math and science which in the past have often held back students genuinely interested in the subject itself and at
the same time failed to arouse any interest among those concentrating in other fields. Certain other departments could take a
cue from Math and Physics.—C.H.C.

Tom Maxwell

The many friends of Tom Maxwell were deeply grieved and shocked to learn of his tragic death last week. Such
occurrences are difficult, if not impossible, to understand or explain. We shall make no attempt. All that we can do
is express our sincere sympathy to his parents, and say that he will be sorely missed by his friends here
at Davidson.

Ironically, the papers stated that Tom Maxwell died as he was “coming back to Davidson.” “Coming back.” Somehow we think
this is important, and we shall always remember and respect him because he was “coming back.”

Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels
Assignments Editor
Tom Colvin
Copy Editor
Spiro Macris
Cartoonists
Bross. Cole
Photography Editor
George Rhyne
Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis
Circulation Manager
Greg Grana
Ass't. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

OKAY, WISE GUY! YOU THINK THE PRICES OF THE BOOKS ARE TOO HIGH, HUH?

Campus Monopoly

THE PHILOSOPHES

Encounter With A Wise Man

I talked to an old man the other day. He’s the sort of man who makes you aware of things
that have been troubling you all along. And then he gives you a hint of the breadth of the life
you can make out of those troubles. Talking to him was like opening windows and letting the startling wind in
to blow free.

Someone had told me that he had once offered advice to aspiring young poets. The advice was a word: “Don’t.”
I asked him about it. “No, no. I never said that,” he said, his words rubbing against each other like
dry gravel gurgling, if dry gravel could gurgle. “Do it, but at the peril of your life. America needs poets,
needs artists. It's costly, but I'm willing to sacrifice a few men to the need.” These are almost his exact
words, but his spirit refuses to hide itself in his words. He is uncapturable; he is all phrase and spirit
wrapped up in personality. He is all pine and apple orchard. He is the sun that is a golden shock
in his white hair angling down across his forehead. He is the snow of that hair, and the bushy brows
with their scattered smaller black hairs poking up like bent weeds through the snow. He is the little swift stream
running and glinting in his seizing eyes.

“Job said to God once, ‘Thou art more to me than my necessary food.’ And I say, ‘My individuality is
more to me than my necessary group.’” This he said to me hard. He wanted me to understand. “That word
‘necessary’ does it,” he explained, his hands making motions as if to create a razor edge on which to balance
his meaning. “Some group is necessary — nation, state, family — but it can’t rob you of your spirit.”

We were walking along the sidewalk. It was grey and cold and the traffic snapped by close to us on
the damp street. He paused and said, “People don’t walk much now; they ride cars. ‘Pedestrian’ has come to have
a low meaning. “But then back a while ago when everybody had horses they rode their horses everywhere they'd go.
Same thing. They rode so much they got bowlegged.” and he squatted in a bowed curtsy to give the effect.
“They were equestrians. We're pedestrians.” I asked him what he called the people in the cars. He waved his arm
at the line of traffic making bumble-bee noise going by and answered, “Aristocrats.”

I know that some men who do what this gentleman does have a fragile sensitivity about being misunderstood,about being trampled
by the “common” man. I asked him if he'd outgrown his sensitivity. “No,” he shot back quickly in answer, like
a flash of sunlight on a piece of wet stone. “But you don’t talk about these things.” I remembered then
what he had said about man digging deep into something, man needing to accept a certain amount of drudgery and
base labor, man’s need to lose himself in something outside of himself. Now I understood that better. We got to
the house where he was staying. We had got to talking about whether man was alone or whether he was
bound up with all other men, and before he went in he told me that both were true. “It’s that
way. And it's not something you reconcile, either; both of ‘em are right.” He did try to form a word
with his hands to make ‘em one, but he couldn't. He tried to find another way to say it, but
he couldn't, probably because there isn’t any other way. You can't end a column about Robert Frost. You just have
to leave things hanging on a quiver somewhere out of reach. There is more that he doesn’t say than there
is that he does. He is too big for a moment and for words. Michelangelo said that man is unfinished.
Robert Frost is. He is still going on, and probably will be after he is gone.

Student’s Dissatisfaction Aired In This Week’s Campus Forum

Dear Editor:

The other day I heard a pretty young Miss confide in her equally lovely companion, “You don’t have to worry
about these Davidson boys; they'll sit around and talk all the time and never get down to action darn it.”

“DO-NOTHINGS”

Right there, I decided it was my duty as a Davidson Gentleman to nip this rumor in the bud, and
well — I did convince that one young lady that we were men of action. But I'm sure that there
are lots of other people who still feel that we are a bunch of “do-nothings.” And the sad part of
it is they're right. The only time Davidson ever gets anything new is when the old either burns up, falls
down, or resigns. As a freshman I was informed of Davidson’s tradition, and I have a warm spot in my
heart for tradition (in fact, I get heartburn every time I eat a traditional sandwich in the union). But tradition
is no substitute for initiative: right Major Fleming?

SMALL PRINT

I was also informed that once in college I would be my own boss, and I could do as I
pleased. Ha! Whoever said that forgot to read the small print in the contract. “Thou shalt not be guilty of
conduct unbecoming to a Davidson Gentleman.” This is not an easy job, this being a Davidson Gentleman. You have to
go to the same dry class every other day — “Lectures good enough for your Grandfather are good enough for
you.” You must never overcut. You must slosh through rain-filled sidewalks. You must wait hours for service at the Union.

ON YOUR OWN

You must order dill or sweet on your sandwiches at Hugo's. You must be scalped once a week by Norton
or Johnson. You must never question the decisions of the faculty and administration. And you must love your trustees as
you love yourselves. Thus the angel said. Aside from this, you're on your own. I thought once to write Miss
Wright in the Charlotte Observer about my problem, but she would only advise me to transfer to a college like
U.N.C. where a man is his own boss until he's had a few beers and becomes everybody’s boss.

LEADER

But perhaps a leader may yet arise to lead us out of bondage into the promised land of milk and
unlimited cuts. Now is the time to act. They said it couldn't be done!!! And they could be right. Can
Davidson get unlimited cuts? Tune in this same college next semester and see! I do not know what course others
may take, But as for me Give me unlimited cuts, or U.N.C.

Bill Armstrong

THE SPECTATOR

Teen-Age Tragedy To A Tribal Theme

By TOM KERNAN

I believe that the following letter, which I received several days ago, merits our attention:

Dear Mr. Spectator,

I am getting tired of listening to my girlfriend run-down “rock ’n roll.” I think it is popular because it
makes sense to us normal “joes” and it’s something everybody can understand and enjoy. I'm sending you a new record
with this letter; I want you to listen to it and tell me how I can convince my girl that
it’s good music.

Dear Upset,

I'm going to tell my readers what your copy of “A Teen-Age Tragedy” is like. The song is done by
Bertha Bloat and her Bleating Bards. It opens with a reed-organ solo, indicative of the tragic theme, and Bertha sings
the first stanza:

My teenage Baby,
She’s some bomb!
She caught rabies
At the Junior Prom.
Ah-ha-hum,
Ah-ha-hee,
Bo-diddily, unh-huh
Yum, yum,
Wheeeeeee!
Wump! (Bass drum).

A chorus follows in which six guitarists, an old vaudeville pianist, and two bass drummers are accompanied by the Bleating
Bards; a background of chanting and foot-patting is provided by a choir of Wambesi maidens. The tempo increases, the music
reaching a frenzied peak, and intermittent shrieks of “Kill, Kill” become audible. (Evidently, the Wambesi maidens lost control of themselves
during the excitement and reverted to ancient tribal practices, for when order is restored, one tenor has disappeared from the
ranks of the Bards.) Bertha picks up the melody, considerably out of shape due to the foot-patting, and sings the
second stanza.

My Honey-Bear’s
Not dead yet;
She’s under the care
Of the county vet.
Ah-ha-hum,
Ah-ha-hee,
Bo-diddily, unh-huh
Yum, yum,
Wheeeceee!
Wump! (Bass drum again).

At this point, the whole group joins in, and the song draws to a fade-out close, the Wambesi managing to
make off with another tenor and the piano player. Yes, Upset, this song has many fine qualities. I think that
one is impressed by the tragic conditions which surround the typical young American. Notice the reference in line one to
“bomb,” this refers to the threat which hangs over us. Connect this with the “wump” of the bass drum, a
symbol of the exploding bomb. The intervening hums, hees, diddles, etc., give the picture of forced gaiety in the face
of destruction. Yes, life is pretty darn tragic for young Americans, and “rock 'n roll” expresses that tragedy with vivid
force. And please, Upset, may I keep the record?

BOOK REVIEW

A Southerner’s Look At Southern Problems. By CHARLES CHASTAIN Davidsonian Associate Editor

James McBride Dabbs, The Southern Heritage, Alfred A. Knopf, 273 pp., $4.00.

It is important to understand just what Mr. Dabbs’ book on the race situation in the South is not. To
begin with, it is not a sociological or psychological description or interpretation of the behavior of Negroes and whites in
the South. It is not a piece of polemical propaganda, of the sort that has marred the presentation of both
viewpoints on the race question. And it is not a statement of any dogmatic, inflexible theory about how Southerners now
act or ought to act. The Southern Heritage is a sober examination of the moral dilemma now confronting the white
Southerner in his relations with the Negro and of the past and present circumstances which have put him in this
untenable position. The predominately moral and ethical tone of the book cannot be overemphasized, and it is, I think, its
great strength, when tempered with Mr. Dabbs’ disavowal of any kind of “holier-than-thou” approach to the customs of his neighbors.

Within this moral and ethical framework, The Southern Heritage is above all a message to Mr. Dabbs’ fellow Southerners. It
is, as he puts it, written “for those who love the South so much they want to make it better,
... for those who remember our great and tragic past, and for those who do not remember but who are
so imbued with that greatness that they face the future with hope.” After pointing out the fallacies in the arguments
usually advanced by segregationists, he poses the question: “What help can the symbol of segregation give us as we face
the future?” It can give us none, for “the language of segregation, of white supremacy, is almost a lost language...
. Every day we use it we become less able to understand the world and be understood by it.” It
is this false symbol of segregation that keeps us from seeing that the future of the black South and the
white South are inextricably bound up together, for “the white Southerner is the man he is because he has lived
among Negroes, and they are the people they are because they have lived with him.” Only if there is acceptance
of this “basic fact of our lives” can there be any solution to the region's greatest problem, or any possibility
of upholding the lasting values of the Southern heritage.
