First Issue By New Staff VOL. XLVII The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON,
N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1959 Green States Position (Page Two) NO. 23

IFC Schedules Duke Ellington For Big Spring Frolics

Jazz pianist Bernard Peiffer (right), with drummer Gerry Segal (left) and bassman Gus Nemeth, expressed approval of “Cave Counterpoint” which
he visited Tuesday night after his appearance in Chambers Auditorium.

Small Audience Finds Bernard Peiffer Cool
By PERRIN WRIGHT
Davidsonian Music Critic

The Bernard Peiffer Trio, sponsored by the Gamma Kappa chapter of Phi Mu Alpha music fraternity, played for a revealingly
small audience Tuesday night in Chambers Auditorium. The trio is composed of Peiffer on piano, Gus Nemeth on bass, and
Gerry Segal on drums; they have recorded on the Decca label.

The word for Peiffer's personal style is intellectual or conservatory jazz, although he managed to cover a wide stylistic range
during the performance. His opening number, I Could Write a Book, sounded like a polished version of Andre Previn, but
the next, Pied Peiffer, an original, superposed a French impressionistic sound onto the West Coast blues foundation. Still later, in
Stomping at the Savoy, he broke into an Erroll Garner style.

Nemeth and Segal were featured several times. Nemeth did his best on the blues choruses, playing fast work and getting
a good sensual sound. Segal kept a steady rhythm going all the time, shifting accents and effects often and taking
a few equally placid solos.

The most natural playing of the evening was on the blues numbers. These were handled in the cool West Coast
style, plus Peiffer’s own bold chording which sent them even farther out. Blues for Django had the most distinctive flavor
of all, namely Scotch. Several students turned themselves in during intermission.

The slow ballads began to deteriorate into nightclub productions at times, but parts of them managed to come through clean,
simple, and untouched by Jose Melis.

From Du Pont Ruins To Davidson Glories
By CHARLES ROSE
Davidsonian Feature Editor

As a little boy he used to play in the ruins of a DuPont ammunition depot that was close to
his home. He was still a lost week scholastically. There were fewer comparisons between the present based on the twelve-tone
system, but it lost the semblance of discipline which characterizes that school; Birdland was made into a Prelude, Fugue, and
Trio, but the fugue was as loosely done as the rest. Most of the time, the trio played their coolest,
and those numbers got the best reception of all. He could have played his entire program that way with at
least as much success.

He also persuaded the audience to indulge in one of his five-minute improvisations, which turned out to be flashy, but
disjointed and often tasteless. Peiffer ventured into a few classical and contemporary forms with Rondo, Black Moon, and Lullaby of
Birdland. Rondo was easy to listen to, but it wasn’t a rondo; Black Moon was an original composition.

Faculty Committee Clears Greek Week Activities

“Big steps have been taken toward a compromise between a traditional fraternity initiation and the safeguarding of academic work, but
the faculty would have been more happy with bigger ones,” commented Dr. W. G. McGavock. Dr. McGavock is chairman of
the Faculty Committee on Fraternities. This week he released to the DAVIDSONIAN the following evaluation by the committee of the
1959 Greek Week activities:

“Definite improvement was made in some areas. Specifically these are: road trips, all-night vigils, programs of constructive help, a spirit
of cooperativeness among a larger group of upperclassmen.

IFC DESERVES CREDIT

“The Inter-fraternity Council, headed by Vernon Anderson, made an honest effort to improve the program. These men deserve much credit
and a hearty vote of thanks for the time, energy, and thought that they put into their efforts to carry
out a constructive week.

“Pre-Greek Week activities were carried out by several fraternities, apparently in an effort to ‘get around’ IFC regulations. This failure
on the part of some to meet the spirit of the program is regrettable and should be definitely eliminated next
year.”

“The ill effects of loss of academic time is still too much in evidence. This is an area where much
additional work is necessary.”

LOST WEEK

McGavock emphasized that, unfortunately, this Greek Week as required by the

College Bowl Contestants on TV Sunday Afternoon

Davidson's College Bowl panel will appear on WBTV (Channel 3) Sunday, April 12, at 4:45 p.m. The program, a fifteen-minute
interview, will precede the weekly College Bowl telecast. This week’s contest between Barnard College and the University of Minnesota should
determine Davidson’s opponent for the following Sunday, April 19. The schedule will be postponed a week in case of a
tie.

Preparing for the College Bowl program the panel has concentrated on individual research in an assigned field and team practice
in private question-answer sessions. Professor Paul Marrotte, chairman of the faculty committee, commented that emphasis was being placed on team
skill and not competition.

PRACTICE SESSION

The panelists were chosen by competitive drills but no outside “contestants” are being used now against the group. Also the
practice sessions have been private, and no public contests are being planned to precede the College Bowl appearance.

Both panelists and the faculty committee watch the weekly program to study techniques. The questions used in the practice sessions
are presented in the form used on the College Bowl. These questions are selected from a variety of fields to
check the coverage of the panelists.

PANEL MEMBERS

The panel is composed of the following members: Bobby Livingston, team captain, Charles Chastain, Frank Nye, and Laurens Walker. Considering
degree fields the group is strong in liberal arts; in addition each has a math-science background.

Professor Marrotte commented that the practice sessions were “very helpful in improving speed and cooperation,” and also “developing quick reactions,
which make the difference.”

WORKING TOGETHER

After watching the panel's progress as a member of the faculty committee, Professor Polley commented that the panelists were “beginning
to work together” and were “beginning to think and respond quickly.” The Faculty Bowl committee is composed of Professors Abernethy,
Jackson, Gallent, McCutchan, Polley, and Marrotte.

The location of the College Bowl telecast will be either New York or Minneapolis. The team of four, Professor Marrotte,
and alternate panelist Monty Bracey will fly to the city of the champion panel on the Saturday preceding the contest.

Armfield Appoints Staff Following His Recent Election

Ed Armfield, Editor-in-chief of the DAVIDSONIAN, has announced the appointment of his staff for 1959-60. Dick Smith was named Assistant
Editor; Jim Hamilton, faculty committee, Professor Polley commented that the panelists were “beginning to work together” and were “beginning to
think and respond quickly.” The Faculty Bowl committee is composed of Professors Abernethy, Jackson, Gallent, McCutchan, Polley, and Marrotte.

Dave Gillis is to be Business Manager. Ervin Duggan and Bob Moore are Managing Editors. Sports Editor is B. Millner;
News Editor, Tom Colvin; and Feature Editor, Charles Rose. Dave Jordan will serve as Assignments Editor; Dan Clemmer as Copy
Editor; and Howard Redding and John Starling as Cartoonists. Charlie Rowe was selected to be Advertising Manager; Albert McClure, Circulation
Manager; and Greg Grana, Assistant Business Manager.

Frolickers Shed Tux For Informal Dances

Edward Kennedy “Duke” Ellington, classed as “America’s Genius of Modern Music,” and his sixteen-piece orchestra will provide the music for
Spring Frolics, April 24 and 25 in the Davidson College Johnston Gymnasium. The IFC announced that the Friday night dance
would be informal, while Saturday night is “Bermuda night.” “Duke” is scheduled in a concert Saturday afternoon.

Born in Washington, D. C., this composer-bandleader was nicknamed “Duke” by an early friend who admired his regal air. The
Duke's early life was dominated by a love of painting, for which he won a scholarship to Pratt Institute in
Brooklyn where he planned a career in art. But Duke's interests had already begun to shift to piano and composing;
and after playing in several small bands around Washington, Duke with a five-piece band moved to New York in 1923
and laid the foundation for a career in original music.

By 1931 Duke had gained the reputation for setting the musical fashion with such classics as “Black and TanDavidson} —
curriculum. “We are very satisfied by the coverage of fields we have,” stated Professor Marrotte, “and we are very satisfied
by the results of the practice sessions which we have been having.” When interviewed, Charles Chastain commended the practice sessions
for being

Paper Recognizes Brooks, Jordan

Bruce Brooks and David Jordan received top honors at the annual DAVIDSONIAN banquet held on March 25 in the Union
Ballroom. Approximately forty-five staff members attended the banquet with ex-editor Laurens Walker officiating. President Martin spoke to the primarily drawing
a liked to rummage through the remains of the old lab building to see what kind of equipment he could
piece together. His parents gave him a chemistry set one year and when he was in High School his chemistry
teacher nourished his interest in science. Ambition, experience and a fair amount of time have brought this investigator and teacher
of chemistry to the present and to Davidson College.

Dr. James Monroe Fredericksen, Associate Professor of Chemistry, has been here since the fall of 1957. He teaches Freshman Chemistry
as well as advanced courses. His ability to make Chemistry both interesting and understandable and his constant cheerful personality are
traits that years of research work have not dimmed. Dr. Fredericksen was born near Blackstone, Virginia but calls Richmond his
home. In 1940 he entered the University of Richmond. Graduating with a B.S. in Chemistry, he went on to the
University of Virginia for a Ph.D. During his college career, he received numerous Research Fellowships. At the University of Virginia
he received two Senior Research Fellowships. One from E. I. Dupont Nemours and Company and another from Merck and Company.

(Continued On Page Four)

evidence of students recuperating from all-night vigils or getting hopelessly behind in their work. The reactions of the Faculty were
not violently bad in many cases (although many remained tacit). But everything is not “Just fine.” Many of the regulations
were definitely violated but great improvement was made. According to McGavock the major difference this year was that almost all
of the activity was concentrated into a period of one week and was kept on campus. The ideal, he feels,
is to control activities in such a way that the moderate “fun” can be retained without the abuses of the
past. McGavock continued that upon investigation, many reports of Greek Week proved to be exaggerations; for instance, most of the
fifteen infirmary cases attributed to the Week were either unrelated or purely accidental. The committee waited until this time to
make its evaluation because it is so difficult to separate fact from fiction in the midst of such activities.

of the success of next year's paper under its new editor, Ed Armfield. Armfield followed with several remarks and presented
Walker with a bound

(Continued On Page Four)

Robinson was elected by student body acclamation as his run-off opponents withdrew in his favor. Weeks' run-off competitor was Henry
Shue, and Moore's was Joe Martin. Denham defeated Ervin Duggan. Further elections this morning saw Student Council representative aspirants narrow
to a few. Left in the race are rising seniors Bob Avinger, Charles Benson, Jim Earnhardt, Fred Lane and Tom
Price; rising juniors Hutton Barron, Quinton Boyd, Tom Hudgins, Marshall LaFar and Pete Wyrick; and rising sophomores Arthur Booth, Bob
Stone, George Trask, and Bill Whittington. Four seniors, two juniors, and one sophomore will be elected to the new Council.
Elections the week of March 23 saw students put in Ed Armfield as DAVIDSONIAN head, Chris Bremer as Quips 'n
Cranks editor, and Charles Cornwell as Scripts 'n Pranks editor. Armfield defeated Jim Hamilton and Dick Smith on the first
ballot of his election. He is in the Kappa Sigma fraternity and hails from Winston-Salem. Bremer, a rising senior from
New Bern, North Carolina, defeated John Glenn and Bob Jones in a two-ballot run-off. He is a member of Phi
Gamma Delta. Charles Cornwell, a rising Junior ATO from Lattimore, North Carolina, took Ed Spivey, his only opponent. Armfield starts
his editorship with this issue of the DAVIDSONIAN, while Cornwell and Bremer take over at the beginning of next year.

Student Reception Set For Dr. Martin

A reception for Dr. D. Grier Martin will be held Tuesday, April 21st, in the football stadium. A buffet supper
will begin at 6:15 p.m. and a special program at 7:45 p.m. in the gym. John Kuykendall, as president of
the student body, is serving as chairman of a student committee carrying out plans and preparations. “This is a completely
student-sponsored and operated reception,” said Kuykendall. “We hope to get the support of all the students.” As evidence of this
cooperation, Kuykendall stated that the fraternities and Slater Food Service have planned not to serve supper on Tuesday night, but
have pledged the amount of money they would normally spend for that meal toward the buffet. The college has also
given funds. The entire student body, faculty, friends of the college, and personal friends of the Martins are invited. In
addition to the buffet, a short, informal program is planned, to express student feelings to President Martin as he takes
office. The plans are being kept secret. Kuykendall stressed the informality of this entire part of the inauguration activities. “The
buffet supper was designed to give the individual students, faculty members, and friends in the community a chance to meet
and talk in the easiest way possible. This is why we'll use the football field and the gym.” Sportswear, including
Bermuda shorts, will be the accepted dress. Davidson's own jazz combo will provide the music.

“Fantasy,” “Mood Indigo,” and “It Don’t Mean A Thing If It Ain't Got That Swing.” In 1933 and 1939 Ellington
made tours in Europe during which his music was acclaimed as one of America’s only two original contributions to world
culture, the other being Walt Disney’s cartoons. Soon after composing “Solitude,” “Caravan,” and “I Let A Song Go Out Of
My Heart” for which he won ASCAP annual awards, Duke introduced a spirited “Jump for Joy,” which ran for twelve
weeks in Hollywood. In 1943 he “invaded” Carnegie Hall's longhairs with his jazz band and has returned every year since
then. In 1955 he composed and featured “Night Creature,” which earned the highest acclaim from the critics. Since Ellington’s rise
to fame in the popular trend of Dixieland and the Paul Whiteman symphonic jazz of the late twenties, the Duke's
originality has gained wide acclaim. “Look Magazine” quotes Dave Brubeck as saying, “It is the rare artist who has the
imagination to continually meet the challenge of change. Duke Ellington, who predates swing, has not only met this challenge but
projects into the future.” “Time” says of Ellington, “He could play a week’s worth of dances and never repeat himself.”
The Duke himself gave the key to his uniqueness in explaining, “When I was a kid taking piano lessons I
couldn't play music that other people wrote—so I began making up my own music.” “You get an idea for music,”
Ellington went on to say, “and you let it roll in the mind. You make all the big fat plans,
then you never get around to the plans. When you finish a phrase at the piano—it suggests something that sounds
better than plans.” That’s the way the Duke writes a tune.

Dissatisfied with the techniques of Angus McBryde, Vernon Anderson, and Dee Lide shown in the cartoon of the March 6
DAVIDSONIAN, Kingston Trio members Nick Reynolds, Bob Shane, and Dave Guard do a little instructing. The Trio played last night
to a packed Chambers auditorium.
