Housing Fee Too High? (See page 2)

VOL. XLVI

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1959

Golfers Defend Title (See page 3)

NUMBER 27

ODK Acknowledges Fourteen For Leadership

Ed Armfield
Charles Chastain
Col. Adams
Dee Green
Bob Livingston
Angus McBryde
Ward McKeithen

PAYTON VS. DILLARD

Great Issues Debate Set On Labor Disputes

Boyd Payton, southern director of the Textile Union of America, will oppose Edwin S. Dillard, president of the Old Dominion Box Company, in an informal debate in the College Union at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday. Speaking on the unionization of the textile industry, the pair will make introductory remarks at morning chapel on the same day.

Payton, a controversial figure in the violence-stricken Harriet-Henderson textile dispute in Henderson, N. C., returns to Davidson to defend labor’s position in textile unionization. Regional director of the TUWA, he has gained nationwide attention as the leading spokesman for labor in Henderson’s months-long strike. A resident of Charlotte, Payton has figured prominently in the news recently because of charges he has brought against North Carolina Attorney General Malcolm Seawell for defamation of character. Payton claims to have been attacked with rocks while in Henderson; Seawell has termed Payton’s claims a hoax. Seawell substantiates his claims with evidence from the State Bureau of Investigation’s crime laboratories.

Edwin Dillard, past president of the influential National Association of Manufacturers, comes to Davidson as a representative of industrial management. A successful businessman from Charlotte, he is president of several corporations in the Carolinas and was past chairman of the board of the National Right to Work Committee.

Sponsored by the Business-Economics Club, the debate is a feature of the Great Issues in Economics series. Dr. Ernest Patterson, spokesman for the group, has assured the DAVIDSONIAN that Payton, now in New York for a directors meeting of the TUWA, will be present at Davidson for the debate on Thursday. The Business-Economics Club has termed the debate between Payton and Dillard as one of the greatest opportunities ever presented to Davidson students to become acquainted with nationally-important figures in the labor-management field.

McGuirt's Company “D” Captures ROTC Field Day

Company D of the First Battle Group, commanded by Cadet Captain Sam McGuirt, won the award for the highest overall rating in Tuesday’s annual field day exercises of the Davidson Cadet Brigade. Each Company was competing for honors in four events as the usual drill activities were dismissed for the day.

Members of the winning company copped first place positions in the best drilled cadet contest for MS I's and II's. Cadet Bob Waugh was judged the most outstanding in the MS I class, while Cadet Butch Rogers received the distinction for the sophomores. Second and third place laurels went to Cadets Linton Wray and John Sharp for the freshmen and Cadets Johnny Crute and Bill Welborn for the MS II’s. The cadre selected the winners on the basis of inspection, manual of arms, and drill execution.

Company A of the Second Battle Group, under the leadership of Cadet Jimmy Bootle, marched its way to first place in the competition for the best drilled squad. The egg throwing contest was taken by Cadets Hugh Stuart and Robert Davidson for the Mortar Battery of the First Battle Group. The Honor Platoon and Company A of the Second Battle Group tied for second place.

The tug of war between companies concluded the colorful activities. In rigorous competitive elimination, Company A of the Second Battle Group out-pulled Company C of the First Battle Group for the top honor.

McCord And Broyles Speak At Graduation

Dr. James I. McCord and Dr. Vernon S. Broyles have been chosen as the Commencement and Baccalaureate speakers for the Graduation Exercises this spring.

Dr. McCord, who will deliver his address at the formal ceremonies Monday morning, is the President-Elect of Princeton Theological Seminary. A native of Texas, he was educated at Austin College, Union and Austin Presbyterian Seminaries, and Harvard University. In 1944 he took a position as professor at Austin Seminary, and he has remained there through this year now serving as Dean of the Seminary. Dr. McCord has made several previous trips to the Davidson Campus.

Dr. Broyles, a Davidson alumnus, is at present the pastor of the North Avenue Presbyterian Church in Atlanta. After completing his course at Davidson, he attended Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, and later received his Ph.D. from the University of Edinburgh in Scotland.

Dr. Abernethy Edits Equality Anthology

The John Knox Press, Richmond, will publish on May 25, The Idea of Equality edited by George L. Abernethy, Professor of Philosophy at Davidson. The work is a collection of seventy-four classic statements on equality beginning with the ancient Greeks and Old Testament, and ending with the Supreme Court decision on segregation. The selections deal with all the forms of equality—economic, political, sex, religious, racial, legal, educational, and social. Abernethy has included an introductory essay dealing with the development of the concept. The volume represents a decade of research by the editor.

This work has been a natural outgrowth of his studies and interests, Abernethy stated. He took graduate work in social and political philosophy, wrote his doctoral dissertation on the doctrine of social contract, and taught political philosophy at the University of South Dakota before coming to Davidson. He pointed out that extensive work has been done in the theory of liberty, the first of the Democratic Trinity, but comparatively little has been done in the ideas of equality and fraternity. No good histories of the evolution of the concept of equality are available and much less analysis of the idea has been made. The editor has therefore been led to bring together historical sources of concepts of equality. John Knox Press plans to advertise the anthology in the New York Times, Saturday Review, Christian Century, and other leading newspapers throughout the nation.

ODK Chooses New Officers

Stuart To Be President

Dabney Stuart was elected president of the Delta Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa for the coming year at the annual ODK banquet Tuesday night in the College Union. Stuart was one of fourteen tapped for membership in chapel that morning. John Huie will serve as vice-president for the coming year and Chris Bremer will act as treasurer. Bernard is acting secretary for the group.

A large crowd of past graduates, faculty and administration, and old and new ODK members attended the banquet. Craig Wall, retiring president of the chapter, presided for the program and Tom Cutting delivered the invocation. Coach Bill Dole, introduced by Ben Craig, ODK and captain of the football team in 1954, was the principal speaker. Coach Dole related his experiences and insights on leadership and teamwork.

Professor Oscar Thies

In 1944 President Cunningham asked Professor Thies to become college engineer. Mr. Thies accepted but retained some of his analytical chemistry courses up until January of this year when the continual upsurge in work connected with his position as engineer forced his retirement from active teaching. He now devotes his full time to the engineering aspect of the operation of Davidson College.

Professor Thies graduated from Davidson in the class of 1918 along with Professors Lilly, Mebane, Hengeveld, and Dr. Woods. The Mimir Society, which in 1923 reorganized to become the present Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Davidson, claimed Professor Thies as one of its members. He was third scholastically in his class (I thank Mrs. Thies for much interesting material which her husband modestly excluded). While a student, Professor Thies reported for the DAVIDSONIAN all four years, advancing to Circulation Manager his junior year and then to Business Manager his Senior year.

Phi Bete Banquet

The Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national fraternity honoring outstanding scholastic achievement, held its annual dinner and public address in the College Union at 7:30 this evening. Dr. Calvin B. Hoover, Professor of Economics, Duke University, delivered the address after the 7:30 dinner engagement. Dr. Hoover has long been recognized as one of the South’s leading economists and is also nationally renowned as an expert on Russia. The title of his speech was “The Problems Involved in Coexistence with Soviet Russia.” Attending the dinner and address were some sixty-five Phi Beta Kappa members and guests of the Davidson chapter.

Prior to the dinner, formal initiation was held for five of the six newly elected members of the Gamma Chapter. Those initiated were John Charles Chastain, philosophy and history major from Lakeland, Florida; John Renfro, economics major from Spartanburg, South Carolina; Dave Robinson, chemistry major from Charlotte, North Carolina; John Nix, English major from Atlanta, Georgia; and Dave Warden, physics major from Winston-Salem, North Carolina.South Carolina; Paul Union Seminary in Richmond, Rudisill, a psychology major: he studied in both Germany from Hickory, North Carolina; and Palestine. Larry Walter, a chemistry and math major from Calhoun, Georgia. Each of these new initiates are members of the class of '59. The only junior to be chosen for membership this year, Dabney Stuart, was unable to be at the initiation and will be initiated at a later date. Stuart is an English major from Richmond, Virginia.

In 1950 he began to serve as Chairman of the Board of Church Extension and worked in this capacity until going to his present position at the North Avenue Church. Dr. Broyles has a Doctor of Theology Degree from Union Seminary. His son Vernon S. Jr. is a graduating Senior this year. Prof. Thies taught chemistry for many years in the old Martin Science Building, which was situated where the new addition to the Library is located now. He has taught almost every chemistry course offered at Davidson, but his primary interest lies in the realm of analytical chemistry.

Professor Richard Thies has been on the Davidson faculty for thirty continuous years, longer than any other professor here today. In the capacity of assistant chemistry professor, Mr. Thies came to the Davidson campus in 1919, doubling the then extant chemistry department consisting solely of Dr. Howard Arbuckle. Married in 1921, Professor and Mrs. Thies have one daughter and three granddaughters living in Texas. Mr. Thies is a deacon in the Davidson Presbyterian Church. He was one of the founders of Davidson's chemical fraternity, Sigma Epsilon, and is a member of various local and national chemical societies. He is also a consulting engineer for the Davidson water plant. In the position of engineer, Mr. Thies deals primarily with non-routine matters both mechanical and electrical.

Authorities Dictate Housing Fee Rise

The Fraternity Housing Fee for the school year 1959-1960 has been raised to $23.00 per semester. Freshman fraternity pledges will pay one-half this amount for their first semester. “A $420,000 investment was made in the Patterson Fraternity Court from the College Endowment Fund,” said R. A. Currie, College Business Manager. “In order for the college to realize the same 4.5 percent net earnings from this investment as it does for others, the rent must be sufficient to provide for depreciation, maintenance, and other expenses.” Out of a total cost of $491,000, the Patterson gift paid $50,000. Monthly utility billings are recovering the $21,000 gas, water, and electrical service charges. The college is then being paid back its $420,000 investment, with interest, over a number of years. “This figure of $23.00 should stand for some length of time if present conditions continue,” Currie concluded.

4 Seniors, 9 Juniors, Col. Adams Inducted

The Davidson chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary fraternity recognizing outstanding leadership in campus activities, tapped four seniors, nine juniors, and one faculty member in chapel Tuesday. Charles Chastain, Angus McBryde, John Nix, and Sam Sloan were the seniors honored by the fraternity. The nine juniors inducted were Ed Armfield, Chris Bremer, Dee Green, John Huie, Bobby Livingston, Ward McKeithen, Dave Robinson, Dabney Stuart, and Dave Warden. Col. William L. Adams was recognized from the faculty administration. Perrin Anderson, a graduate of the class of 1956, was chapel speaker for the ODK tapping. While at Davidson, Anderson was president of the student body and a member of ODK and Phi Beta Kappa. He spoke on his observations of leadership and the three keys connected with it—accompanying price, required energy, and necessary hard work.

The students tapped and their campus activities are: Chastain, an honors student in history and philosophy, was a member of the recent College Bowl panel. He was associate editor of the 1958-59 DAVIDSONIAN and was recently received into Phi Beta Kappa. McBryde is a member of the IFC and is active in Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. A member and captain of the track team, he is in the honorary medical fraternity, AED. He is a premed student. Nix, head of this year’s Court of Control, is an economics major and has participated actively in the Business-Economics Association. He has held several positions in the Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Sloan, also an economics major, was a member of this year’s Student Council and IFC. Active in athletics, he is on the golf team and is a member of the D Club. He is secretary of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity.

Armfield was recently elected editor-in-chief of the DAVIDSONIAN. He was managing editor of this year's paper. He is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and is majoring in history. Bremer also will serve as a publications head for 1959-60, as editor of Quips and Cranks. A pre-med major, he is a member of AED, Sigma Delta Psi, and D Club. Green is the new president of the student body. He served on the council this year as junior class president and was also a representative to the IFC. He is a pre-law student and pitches for the Davidson baseball team. Huie, a history major, is a member of the new Honor Court. This year he was a representative to the Student Council. Active in sports, he is on the basketball and track teams. Livingston was captain of the Davidson College Bowl panel and is chairman of the new Honor Court. He is a member of the Student Council and was treasurer of the YMCA for two years. He is doing honors work in history and is the present associate editor of the DAVIDSONIAN.

McKeithen was recently elected president of the IFC of which he was a member this year. He is co-captain of the soccer team for next year and is a member of Scabbard and Blade. Robinson, also an honors student in history, is the new YMCA president. He has served as president of the sophomore class and first vice president of the student body. He is a past secretary of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Stuart was the only junior recently invited to join Phi Beta Kappa. He is a member of the new Honor Court and has been (Continued On Page Four).

Vernon Broyles Selected For YMCA Russian Tour

The U.S. National YMCA has selected Vernon Broyles, retiring President of the Davidson YMCA, as one of ten winning applicants representing the American Gamma YMCA on a tour in Russia this summer. Arriving in New York on June 13, Vernon will take part in a five-day orientation period before his ten-week trip begins. Sponsored by the United States and Russian State Departments, this group with representatives from other U.S. youth organizations will travel with the purpose of promoting international understanding and cooperation through the students of the two nations.

The orientation period in New York will involve meetings with U.S. ambassadors in the U.N. to give each student some background material and answers to questions concerning his stay in Russia. On June 19, Vernon and his group of forty will sail from Montreal, Quebec, arriving in Genoa, Italy on June 28 or 29, and thence to Russia through Czechoslovakia, staying five days in Czechoslovakia and reaching the Crimea on July 8. Traveling under the auspices of the “Travel Bureau of the Commission on Youth Organizations of the USSR,” this group will have its headquarters at an international student camp with Russian students of the Crimea. Tours will be conducted through the schools, industries, and agricultural systems common to Russia.

“Each student,” commented Broyles, “is encouraged to be aware of the agricultural and industrial conditions presented in these tours to form a comparison or contrast to those in the United States.” Some travel will be done in the Soviet Union itself, in Moscow and Leningrad; and perhaps a stop-off at the World Youth Festival, held this year in Russia. On August 17 the group will leave Russia with a six-day stopover in Warsaw and Poznan, Poland, and move to Le Havre, France. Here on August 29 the tour will officially end with a choice, however, for the student to return home or travel some on his own. “I want to spend about ten days on my own in Europe,” was Vernon’s wish, “to get a brief look at as many countries as possible.” Sailing from Cobh, Ireland, on September 10, Vernon will arrive in Montreal on September 16. “I'm really looking forward to this trip,” Broyles replied. “I think every aspect of it ought to be valuable and interesting.”