o> . . The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Innovations In Admissions System Needed To Silence Many Critics

Admissions is the most controversial problem of Davidson College. For the past three weeks, the DAVIDSONIAN has looked at this
problem. We have found that there is a great deal of interest in the admissions question on the part of
students as well as alumni and administration. Probably no phase of administrative activity is more discussed with less accurate information.
It is our purpose to supply some of this information and clear up some common misconceptions regarding admissions.

Most student unrest over admissions seems to be concerned with the quality of freshmen admitted each year. We disagree with
this feeling. After looking into admissions, we do not question the ability of those accepted to Davidson. The Admissions Committee
can defend to the man those they have accepted—on their records. We feel that the mistakes being made in admissions
are mistakes of omission, not commission. We are satisfied with the men being accepted. We are disturbed over some of
those who have been refused admittance.

The DAVIDSONIAN makes the following recommendations for serious consideration by the administration:

Presidential Appointment Of Admissions Committee

As the one most interested in, and responsible for, the welfare of Davidson College, the president should have appointative power
over the Committee on Admissions. President Martin has pointed out that the student body is the real measure of greatness
in a school. By appointative power of the Admissions Committee, the president can exercise an indirect control over admissions, and
he can more readily instill his philosophies into admissions.

Personal Interviews

Although we agree that the Admissions Committee can defend all of the men they receive on the basis of their
previous academic records, we feel that personal interviews with all applicants would help to eliminate some whose records seem worthy
but who do not fit in at Davidson. If this system of interviews eliminates only the few extreme cases which
now give basis to student criticism, it will be worthwhile. Besides these advantages, being able to have all applicants visit
Davidson will enable us to try to “sell” them and thus get a higher percentage of men admitted to actually
enter the school.

Early Decisions On Outstanding Students

Under this system, we can better compete with other schools for the potentially exceptional student. There is great competition in
educational circles for this type of man. By accepting him in the fall of his senior year, we may be
able to obtain from him a more definite commitment. Other schools are doing this; we should meet the competition.

Higher Evaluation Of Past Ties With The College

As the most subjective phase of admissions evaluations, this will be perhaps the most difficult to administer, but by no
means the least important. It is for refusing admission to some who fall into this category that the admissions program
is most criticized. We recommend that personal ties be made a more important criterion of evaluation. These are often much
more important than a list of extracurriculars assiduously collected by aspiring Davidsonians. Our first recommendation that the president appoint the
Admissions Committee will expedite the judicious discharge of this duty. He will appoint men best qualified to make such a
subjective decision based on their knowledge of Davidson College.

We should remember that Davidson is more than an intellectual factory; Davidson is a way of life. Only through proper
admittance can we keep our way of life.

For F.D.R.: Justification

“For three long years I have been going up and down this country preaching that government . . . costs
too much. I shall not stop that preaching.” —Franklin Delano Roosevelt, July 2, 1932

“If anyone at all is to have the privilege of lying, the rulers of state should be such persons.” —Plato
c. 370 B.C.

Double Standard For The South

Finally, in the closing minutes of his chapel talk last week, Dr. Max Polley told us what we already knew
full well. He remarked that the problems of the South were like unto those of South Africa, on which he
had harangued at length. We really didn’t need the hint. The allegory was quite obvious from the outset. The purpose
was even more glaring.

We are increasingly aware of, and disturbed by, a double-standard used by Dr. Polley and imposed by the northern press
under which the South must labor. The hero of the not-so-subtle allegory, Trevor Huddleston, was praised for his protestations against
a system he sincerely believed to be wrong. We were told that he showed true courage in placing himself outside
the law for this great cause of his. Let a Southerner protest against a system which he believes to be
wrong. Damnations are heaped upon him for his same devotion and sincerity of purpose. Let a Southerner place himself outside
the law in protest and he will be met not with praise but with bayonets.

Dr. Polley is from a far-removed section of the country. He is the first to admit that. Nor can we.
Nevertheless, we are often admonished to lay aside those things we hold sacred and in which we sincerely believe. We
must not.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Jim Hamilton

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Livingston

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield

Associate Editor
Ervin Duggan

Editorial Assistant
Bob Moore

Managing Editors
B. Miller, Tom Colvin

Sports Editor
Charles Rose

News Editor
Dick Smith

Feature Editor
Dave Gillis

Assignments Editor
David Jordan

Copy Editor
Dan Clemmer

Cartoonists
Redding Starling

Advertising Manager
Charlie Rowe

Circulation Mgr.
Albert McClure, Jr.

Asst. Business Manager
Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

“YOU'RE TOO LATE, COMRADE”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Newcomer Assails Regulations: Junior Hits “Shallow Rebellion”

David Dillard

Dear Sir:

With cries of “There's our meet the unique needs and potentialities of the rabble of neophytes which invades the campus
each September, possessing not the mildest concept of the attention being given to an apparently anti-materialist document, along with a
running interest in the Beat Generation, seems to be in-

DAVIDSON NOTEBOOK

Manufacture Of Freshman “Gentlemen” is Blasted

Editor's Note: This is the first of a continuing series of columns written by two Davidson students who have requested
that their names not be affixed to their work. Though granting anonymity to writers is generally against the policies of
THE DAVIDSONIAN, the editors feel that the merits justify an exception in this case.

During her illustrious history, Collegii Davidsonensis has borne two great distinctions. First, Woodrow Wilson, who studied here, gained in a
single academic year that great background of democracy, religion, and scholarship through which he so nobly distinguished his high office.
Secondly, she has instilled into a century of young men those qualities of a gentleman which have enabled them to
become the leaders of the South. So efficiently does the college perform the latter duty that we think it only
appropriate to record here the philosophy of The Making of a Gentleman.

First, take a young freshman, statistically more able than his predecessors, and subject him to an archaic, worthless set of
regulations, abandoned years ago by other colleges.

Second, humiliate him at great length. This teaches him that snobbery, disdain, and insensitivity are qualities which he must adopt
in order to be a gentleman, as seen in those called upperclassmen.

Third, since we are a Christian college, make it plain to him that our Christian justification in perpetuating unreasonable practices
lies in that irrefutable piece of reasoning, “They did it to me.” This standard is more easily recognized and accepted
when we call it by its proper name, Tradition.

Fourth, style your regulations such that they will cudgel the freshman out of originality and idealism into relinquishing these characteristics
for the more sophisticated traits of dullness and conservatism exemplified in the masses. Eliminate individuality, cultivate mediocrity, and soon that
tragicand oft-repeated pronouncement on the individualist, "He does not fit in," will wholly disappear. Fifth, if the freshmen show signs
of obeying the regulations, then encourage them to riot. This builds Class Unity and Spirit. Lastly, if the system of
enforcement shows signs of weakening, give no consideration to the fact that it may be basically wrong, but make it
authoritative and efficient. Remember, there is no wrong like the well-administered wrong.

"Leader!" and "Heil, Gee!" still ring in my now almost unhearing ears, I read with disgust your editorial of Oct.
2 concerning Court Judge Milton Gee’s powerful sway over a defenseless Class of '63. Complete and final conformity has been
the watchword of the freshman’s first weeks at Davidson. Indicative of something. Perhaps it’s a rebellion against traditional value patterns,
but if it is, it’s a somewhat shallow one.

STERLING COMMENTS:

Most of us couldn’t be at Davidson except for the materialistic inclinations of our parents, and the fact that we
are here testifies that we are not ready to give up book-learning for an approach to truth, however valid it
may be, through freedom from convention. Most of us hope to graduate and to enter a profitable profession, where we
can be of great help to that portion of mankind we see in the mirror, providing him all the financial
advantages and endeavoring to give him as high a “standard of living” as possible. I do not condemn the Beat
Generation or any other true rebels or honest critics. I have an idea that D. H. Lawrence, Vance Packard, Ginsberg,
and others open themselves to truths and insights which the rest of us are too comfortable and hardened to look
for. But let us not be blind hypocrites. If we are going to be hypocrites, then let us contrive to
do so with a will and a purpose. But as long as we're examining faults that we have in ourselves,
let us admit that we don’t love our fellowman very much, that we want money (and status), but let’s honestly
look into the idea of finding some relative values which can be held at the same time: finding pleasure in
helping those who are less fortunate than ourselves, being a little concerned about the world and the tremendous economic and
philosophical questions that have always confronted it, and being sensitive to the sensation of beauty in our commonplace experiences.

Tim Ray

Dear Editor:

It is indeed amazing that Davidson students are getting excited about “The Status Seekers”—something in the field of thought, something
which has psychological and philosophical implications. However (Although I haven't read THE STATUS SEEKERS and don’t intend to, there being
plenty of other books that I'd like to find some spare time for) the fact that we are here testifies
that we are not ready to give up book-learning for an approach to truth, however valid it may be, through
freedom from convention. Most of us hope to graduate and to enter a profitable profession, where we can be of
great help to that portion of mankind we see in the mirror, providing him all the financial advantages and endeavoring
to give him as high a “standard of living” as possible. I do not condemn the Beat Generation or any
other true rebels or honest critics. I have an idea that D. H. Lawrence, Vance Packard, Ginsberg, and others open
themselves to truths and insights which the rest of us are too comfortable and hardened to look for. But let
us not be blind hypocrites. If we are going to be hypocrites, then let us contrive to do so with
a will and a purpose. But as long as we're examining faults that we have in ourselves, let us admit
that we don’t love our fellowman very much, that we want money (and status), but let’s honestly look into the
idea of finding some relative values which can be held at the same time: finding pleasure in helping those who
are less fortunate than ourselves, being a little concerned about the world and the tremendous economic and philosophical questions that
have always confronted it, and being sensitive to the sensation of beauty in our commonplace experiences.

Tim Ray

Is Threat-Ridden

By PETER STERLING

The U.S. military policy has developed around the concept of total war based upon “massive retaliation” imposed upon the enemy
with the intent to destroy his will to resist. In other words, the U.S. would employ its vast military might
to annihilate the enemy. Yet, with the advent of Soviet thermonuclear weapons and ballistic missiles such a policy is self-defeating.
Any attempt at total war by either the U.S. or USSR would be suicidal, given the present balance of military
power. A nuclear attack upon either society would create a social, political, and economic catastrophe from which the country could
not immediately, if ever, recover. Therefore, the possession of such awful power deters either side from utilizing it.

Despite our reliance upon such a policy, we have found it untenable in smaller wars which do not affect our
national survival enough to initiate global destruction. Consequently, the mutual possession of nuclear weapons and the policy of total destruction
has not mitigated limited wars. In areas such as Korea, Lebanon, Quemoy and Matsu, Tibet, Hungary, Sikkim, and Laos the
total-war policy was not effective. In fact, it allowed Russia to calculate that we would not risk self-destruction in areas
not in our absolute national interest. Just as the policy of total war has not prevented limited war, the policy
of total peace has not produced limited peace. In the disarmament conferences since 1945, both the U.S. and U.S.S.R. have
advocated programs to bring total peace to the world. It must be understood, though, that the arms race was created
by basic differences and fear among nations. It is very unlikely that either side will disarm as long as it
cannot trust the other. Negotiation is difficult because the use of force to coerce the enemy is reduced by the
destructive potential of total war. Disarmament discussions have centered around three principles: the end of nuclear weapons, inspection of military
installations, and protection against surprise attack. When these concepts are studied concretely it can be seen how difficult they are
to attain. For example, how does one nation prevent surprise attacks when missiles can be manufactured and launched from secret
places and arrive in the U.S. in less than half an hour?

The concept of total war has not lessened the threat of limited war because absolute power is inapplicable. Likewise, the
concept of total peace is unattainable in a world of mutual suspicion and massive military might. Not only should the
military supplement its total-war concepts with limited-war tactics, but also diplomacy ought to seek methods to secure limited peace. In
the military and diplomatic realm, “the quest for certainty is the prescription for inaction.”
