The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1959
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Court Of Control Should Be Junked

In the near future, the Student Council must face the problem of what to do with the Court of Control. The organization for regulating freshman activity during the early weeks of school cannot continue to function as it did this year and make any contribution to life at Davidson. Judge John Nix and his Court did the best that was humanly possible to make a success of the archaic organization, but Nix would be the first to admit his attempts ended in failure. His hands were tied. Actually, as soon as a freshman class discovers that the Court operates on what is essentially a bluff, they can refuse to follow its dictates with little fear of consequences. Such a discovery on the part of the freshmen leaves the Judge and his Court in a ridiculous position. All they can do is ask freshmen to cooperate, which they naturally refuse to do. The matter, and the Court, are usually forgotten at that point until the next year.

The DAVIDSONIAN can see little reason in continuing such an obvious farce. We propose that the Student Council vote to abolish the Court and its functions beginning with the fall of 1959. Such a move would bring the Student Government more in step with the times and save a group of upperclassmen next year’s embarrassing duty of trying to bluff the court through another eight weeks of freshmen indoctrination.

It would, however, be a mistake to forget some of the good ends that the Court has served in the past. We think the most important of these is encouraging freshmen to speak on campus and become acquainted with local traditions. This work should be continued. To accomplish this aim, we suggest that the fraternity presidents be called together to decide on a program that all fraternities would be willing to support. Perhaps such a program could include the requiring of freshmen to wear caps for six weeks, speak on campus, and stay off the grass as long as caps were worn. Such a program should begin after Rush Week. The fraternities would have no trouble whatever enforcing such a mild program, and we believe the beneficial parts of the present Court system could be safely preserved.

The DAVIDSONIAN encourages the Student Council to begin work immediately on the problem at hand, a problem already continued longer than it merits.

A Weaker Link

The Davidson library is one of the less conspicuous links in our educational chain. It is also one of the weakest. As the facts and figures show, library facilities have improved sharply over the last five to ten years, but they are still far behind in most respects when compared with the libraries of typical schools of our size and pretended quality. A great amount of money was spent last year for a new wing on the library building and for remodeling of the old sections. These expenditures were necessary, and they have provided a physical plant that should be sufficient for many years to come. But the Administration and Trustees should consider more than bricks and mortar when deciding how much cash to give the library.

In particular, two things are important: the number and kind of books bought, and the number and kind of periodicals received. Despite claims by some that the library is at an optimum size for an undergraduate liberal arts college, and that the total number of volumes is deceptively small because worthless books have been culled from the stacks, most professors and students concerned with the matter would agree that the library is not buying enough current books (even with the special grant received a couple of years ago), and that many gaps exist where the library has failed to keep up in some fields. The distribution of the books is out of balance, since the purchasing of scholarly and scientific volumes is left solely to individual professors’ tastes, with no provision for areas not covered by the interests of these individuals.

As to periodicals, anyone who has tried to write a research paper of any sort can testify to the dismal inadequacy of our library's resources in scholarly and scientific journals. Not only are important periodicals missing in some fields, but a very high percentage of the back volumes go back no more than five, ten, or fifteen years, even in the case of periodicals that for decades have been acknowledged as highly important. Furthermore, each professor is faced with a decision between sustaining the periodicals he now takes and adding new ones, or increasing his expenditures for books, which come out of the same budget.

The remedies for these problems would seem to be, in part, to set up special periodical funds for each department, apart from the book budget, and to provide for the important periodicals and books not included in individual professors’ expenditures. The permanent remedy, however, cannot be provided by such administrative changes: more money is the only answer.—C.H.C.

Dean Of Faculty

The Board of Trustees is to be congratulated on its choice of Acting Dean Frontis Johnston as permanent Dean of Faculty. Dr. Johnston is a well-known scholar and a qualified educator. We are happy to note that the new Dean is known for his progressive attitudes and open-minded approach to the educational problems of Davidson. Now that the College plant is approaching a point at which no more extensive improvements will be needed in the foreseeable future, the emphasis of Davidson’s development should shift to the academic front. Dean Johnston is the right man to develop a plan for future improvements, and guide it through to completion.

Art Success

Too often creative students are forgotten in the rush of more prominent campus activities. This week three of Davidson’s artists gained area-wide recognition against competition from the best and largest art departments in the two Carolinas. (See Page 4) Addison Bross is to be especially praised for winning one of five “Honor Prizes” given at the Carolina’s student art exhibit in Columbia, S. C. If Bross and the other entrants had the facilities available at larger colleges and universities, we wonder just what might be accomplished in this important field at Davidson? Achievements such as this make good material for encouraging the construction of the proposed “Cunningham Fine Arts Center” as soon as funds are available.

Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels
Assignments Editor Tom Colvin
Copy Editor Spiro Macris
Cartoonists Bross, Cole
Photography Editor George Rhyne
Advertising Manager Dave Gillis
Circulation Manager Greg Grana
Ass't. Business Manager Bob Wynne

HOLDS UNDISPUTED LEAD IN NEWSPAPERS RECEIVED

College Library, Though Making Progress, Is Below Par
By CHARLES CHASTAIN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

In some ways, the Davidson College Library has made outstanding progress in the recent past. Compared with its own performance over the last ten years, the library has improved markedly, although it is difficult to say whether this represents an achievement above and beyond what would normally be expected over this period of time. By use of statistics published in College and Research Libraries (January, 1959, issue), it is possible to trace the recent growth of Davidson’s library in terms of total number of books, new books added each year, number of periodicals and newspapers, staff and student salaries, total expenditures for books and binding, library expenditures per student, and ratio of library expenditures to the total operating expenses of the school (see table).

STEADY IMPROVEMENT

The picture revealed by these facts and figures is one of steady improvement. For example, the total number of books in the library increased from 50,038 ten years ago in 1948-49 to 73,491 last year. Ten years ago only 238 periodicals were taken, while last year the library was receiving 380 periodicals: an increase of over 150. Five years ago, only 2,982 new volumes were added, compared to last year’s increase of 4,046. Operating costs per student five years ago averaged $36.66, whereas last year they reached $55.78. Comparable increases, although somewhat smaller, occurred in salaries, expenditures on books, and ratio of library cost to the total operating expenses of the college. This is the bright side of the picture. Considering these facts alone, the library’s role in the educational process at Davidson has been exemplary, at least insofar as money spent and books bought are concerned.

BELOW AVERAGE

But compared with other schools of our caliber, Davidson’s apparent progress in the quality of its library appears in a different perspective. Considering as a typical sample twelve other four-year liberal arts colleges roughly Davidson's size (six slightly larger and six slightly smaller) and alleged quality (several of them being fairly famous institutions, and allRanking high among undergraduate institutions by most evaluations, Davidson comes out at the bottom in two important categories and does no better than average or low in others (see table).

| College | Total Expenditures | Current Library Cost | Ratio to Books | Periodicals | Per Student |
|---------|--------------------|----------------------|----------------|-------------|-------------|
| 6,684   | 960                | $211.11              | 4.7150         | 3,867       | 633         |
| 5,655   | 4,251              | 560                  | $74.50         | 3.26%       | 5,544       |
| 974     | $111.66            | 5.73%                | 3,453          | 548         | $53.58      |
| 3.33%   | 3,607              | 621                  | $72.46         | 4.86%       | 4,165       |
| 626     | $60.10             | 3.48%                | 3,176          | 431         | $63.23      |
| 5.33%   | 2,622              | 450                  | 5.61%          | 6,512       | 928         |
| $130.34 | 5.93%              | 6,341                | 581            | $54.79      |
| 3.95%   | 3,090              | 469                  | $46.90         | 4.31%       |
| 4,046   | 390                | $55.78               | 4.62%          |

(The above figures were taken from Group II of the current College and Research Library statistics, which included schools other than universities with library costs of over $43,000 a year.)

Our Coffer Runneth Over

KINGSTON TRIO TICKET SALES PROPOSALS MERIT ACCEPTANCE

New Election Amendments Logical Step Toward More Efficient Voting

By ED ARMFIELD
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The very suggestion of alteration, variation, or modification of existing institutions around Davidson College is worth comment, especially when the suggestion might lead to more active and thoughtful student activity in campus elections. The two amendments offered to the student body in last Tuesday’s chapel by John Kuykendall, if accepted, might make a big difference in student participation in elections; and, if accepted, they will be a step in the right direction.

The first of the proposed amendments would re-group the elections, thus eliminating the long, drawn-out process of past years. Student enthusiasm in the past has waned until the number voting in the last elections was disgracefully small. Under the new grouping proposed, the elections would be held in the following order: (1) Student Body offices, (2) Honor Court, (3) Student Council, (4) YMCA and publications heads, and (5) Freshman Advisor. These proposals are far superior to the ordeal we must now go through to elect our leaders, but they are not as expeditious as they could be. For example, the publications elections could be held along with the Student Body offices, and YMCA voting could take place simultaneously with the Freshman Advisor race. This would further streamline voting to the convenience of all students.

Kuykendall’s proposal to appoint Head Cheerleader and Athletic Council members is logical and should also be accepted by the students' vote. The proposed election changes in themselves concede that all blame for indifferences is not to be found at the student’s doorstep. The imperfections of the system have discouraged voting. If they, through student acceptance of the proposed amendments, are discarded, then the cries of “student apathy” will be more relevant and condemning. So long as we contend that college is a place for character building, we must support student elections. Those who neglect the franchise show a basic disinterest in student government and student affairs, a disinterest which could easily be carried with one when he leaves college. A vote for the proposed amendments will be the first step towards responsible student government; the next steps will logically be to the polls.

PEANUTS
OH, IT'S JUST SHE SAID MY FACE HAS NO CHARACTER... AND SHE'S RIGHT, TOO... I'M NOTHING!
by Cole

DON'T PAY ANY ATTENTION TO LUCY, CHARLIE BROWN... WHY, IF I LISTENED TO HER, I'D HAVE BEEN A NERVOUS WRECK A LONG TIME AGO!

In total number of volumes, Davidson ranks lowest, with its stock of books as small as one-third to one-fifth of certain other schools its size or smaller. The same goes for periodicals currently received, for several of the twelve schools receive half again or twice as many scholarly and scientific periodicals as Davidson.

NEW BOOKS

Davidson's total of new books added to the library last year is about average for the twelve. Its ratio of library expenses to total college costs is also about average, but the amount spent per student is near the bottom. There is one category, however, in which the Davidson College Library holds undisputed leadership — it regularly receives 38 newspapers, almost four times as many as the average for the twelve schools cited, and sixteen more than the second highest.

Some Metaphors On Man And Life

By DABNEY STUART

One of the main perplexities and dangers of writing a column like this is the possibility of casting influence where it is not up to the writer to cast it. It is difficult to say with Conrad Aiken, “Let us be reckless of our words and world, And spend them freely as the tree his leaves;” This one isn’t intended as dogma. It isn’t final. It is a sip of light wine that leaves only a hint of taste after it has been swallowed.

Some persons are unable to be satisfied with seeing life only as a succession of happenings. To many, life seems to be something more than it is, or at least a little different from what it is. For many, life is a metaphor. It is really what it seems. It is a gaping yawn between the lips of birth and death. And when the yawn is over, birth and death aren’t as far apart as they seem. It is a circular piece of rope hanging from a pulley. It is the sound of two blank pages turning, or the time it takes to leaf those two pages. It is a clearing in some woods, with numberless diverging paths radiating from it, all of them dark to the bend. It is an uncertain light-bulb that flashes and goes dead when the switch is snapped.

For some, man’s place in life is better understood as a metaphor, too. He is a puzzle, spread across a card table in a dark wall-less room, feeling some hand shuffling the pieces of him back and forth on the cold top. He is a pet cat locked in his master’s room, spending his energy pawing at the weather-stripping on the base of the door. He is a hummingbird hovering over blossom after blossom, snatching a little nectar here and there but never landing on a flower. He is a scrap of newspaper in a vacant lot, waiting for the wind, or the man with the sharp pin-on-a-stick to pierce him and put him in a bag.

There isn’t much hope in these metaphors. They may be too real for there to be any. Or they may be as softly tenuous as dew drops. But I guess to leave hope out of man and life is to be blind in part of an eye. Most people have some reason for getting out of bed in the morning. It probably amounts to this in the long run: if you want your trees purple you’ve got to go out and paint them that way.

THE SPECTATOR
Liberal Sanctuary For The Birds

By TOM KERNAN

The other morning, I woke up to the sound of indignant squawking, which seemed to come from my window sill. Expressing myself vividly, I got out of bed and went to the window. There I saw a young Robin, evidently upset about something.

“What’s the big idea?” I yelled.

He astonished me by answering with a string of oaths, using Italian, French, and even a few Latin words beside the standard English one. (I know animals aren’t supposed to talk, but just this past weekend, a brother of mine swore he saw three pink unicorns on the road to Charlotte, singing ‘All Hail O Davidson’ — in harmony, too.)

“Watch the language,” I said, “don’t you know where you are?”

“Do I ever!” he said, and he thrust a pamphlet into my hands. It was entitled “Davidson College Is For the Birds,” and it resembled a catalogue.

“I came up here from Florida to register for the Spring term,” he continued. “My father came here once, and the college sent me that book, that pack of fabrications, last fall.”

I glanced at the pamphlet, certain phrases catching my eye, like: “Davidson is a small, liberal-hearted sanctuary for birds — encourages the growth of the whole bird — in the heart of Carolina’s worm center — modern trees with well-lighted holes — learn to molt without fear.” I glanced through the rest of the booklet, which was filled with courses, such as: “Nest Feathering 21-22... A survey of nests, with an eye to belly-comfort. Hatching 11-12... An introduction to the laying, care of, and hatching of eggs. Hymning 11-12... Required of all incoming birds. Designed to eliminate unfortunate methods of expression and instill a spirit of harmony throughout the community. Perching 51... Designed to teach one to stay on any branch, no matter how slippery.”

“Not bad,” I said, handing the pamphlet back to him.

“Nuts,” he said. “The worms are scarce here, these courses are sorry, and there are three of us rooming in the same tree hole. The entrance is so filled with trash, there isn’t light enough to see what you’re doing.”

“The college figures that too much light is bad for you,” I said. “When I was new here, I was a rebel too, but you’ll find as you learn and grow that things which now seem —,” but he left before I could finish.