FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1959

OUTLINES ON SPORTS
By B. MILLNER

WE'VE HEARD—and written—enough about how the loss of Charlie Benson has put the Davidson College football team on the shelf
as far as this season goes. There is not much doubt that Benson is, or was, the most valuable player
on this year’s team, which had the potential to be as good as any we've had here in the past
three or four years. But Benson is only one man, and he would be the first to protest that the
‘Cats are not a one-man team. We think that the players realize that too. We don’t think that they’ve called
it a season with five games left on the schedule.

BIG CHARLIE won’t play against V.M.I. tomorrow and he'll be doing well to dress out for the Homecoming game. He
won’t be at full strength this year. The load rests squarely on the shoulders of Tee Redding and Duncan Morton.
You won’t see the option run much against V.M.I. because Redding can’t run and Morton can’t pass. This is bad
because the bread-and-butter play for the ‘Cats has always been the option. It will be sorta strange to watch a
Davidson team struggle along without a good, all-around quarterback. Dick Belton and Dyke Little held the fort for three years
up until 1957. When things looked bad then, one Charlie Benson came along and pulled the ‘Cats up by their
bootstraps. The time is ripe for another savior. No one really expected Benson, who was merely a left-handed halfback, to
become one of the best quarterbacks ever to run a Davidson team.

THE SAVIOR is not likely to come in the form of Tee Redding, who can’t run, or in Duncan Morton,
who can’t pass—but then it wasn’t likely to come in the form of a left-handed halfback. We hope that Hart
will take care of the short yardage, that Sheffield or McRorie can break loose, that Anderson, Crute, Porter, Bynum, Clark
and all the rest will do their jobs a little better than usual—that they’ll forget that the most valuable player
on the team is sitting on the bench wearing a sport coat instead of shoulder pads. We hope that the
team, without Benson, without the option play, will save itself. It sounds a little corny, but heck, it might work.

THE NEWEST light on the Davidson sports horizon is a group known simply as The R.O.T.C. Bowling Team. Operating mainly
on elbow grease and horse liniment, the military has only been able to achieve its mission twice in five encounters
with the enemy. Making up the detail are Sgt. Gregory, team captain; Sgt. McCurry, Sgt. Pendley, Sgt. Crump, Specialist Willie
Hubbard, and Col. Adams. Considering the battle conditions, this dauntless sextet has been fortunate to win two matches in the
Mooresville League, their theatre of operations—for only two members of the team had bowled before this year.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C. set a new course record.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Crippled ‘Cats Place Hopes In Sub Quarterbacks Tomorrow
By D. G. MARTIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Coach Bill Dole’s Wildcats will be seeking status in the Southern Conference as they play Virginia against V.M.I.’s once-beaten Keydets
tomorrow afternoon at two-thirty. The ‘Cats, looking for their first conference win, will throw an adjusted offense against the Keydets.
This change was forced by the loss of ace quarterback Charlie Benson in Davidson's first Virginia outing against Richmond two
weeks ago. The new offense will be built around the capabilities of Benson's replacements, Tee Redding and Duncan Morton.

V.M.I. has a 3-1-1 record. Last week, they turned back William and Mary 26-6. They also sport victories over The
University of Virginia and Marshall College. Their only defeat came at the hands of Penn State. V.M.I. tied Richmond 14-14
in their only other outing. That same Richmond team beat Davidson 21-7.

“V.M.I. has a winning complex,” Dole says. “They don’t know how to lose. They take advantage of every mistake that
you make. V.M.I. is not nearly the team it was last year. But they just don’t know how to lose.
Take their game with William and Mary. They're not that much better (26-7) than William and Mary. They just had
a winning complex, and William and Mary had a losing one.”

Dole also praised several Keydet players in particular. Howard Dyer, V.M.I.’s quarterback, is a dangerous passer. He will be backed
up by the running punch of John Traynham, leading conference ground gainer. Dole noted that Sam Horner, an All-American honorable
mention last year, was injured this season and hasn't returned to form.

Coach Dole still moans the loss of Charlie Benson with a knee injury. “Benson was our team. We built our
entire offense around him. When we lost him, we lost our offense. Now we have to re-adapt at mid-season to
Redding and Morton. They are both fine players, but they have their limitations. Redding simply can’t run like Benson and
Morton hasn't got the experience. Morton is well-skilled and is going to make us a good quarterback. But you can’t
learn in seven weeks what...

Harriers First Loss Today
By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Here this afternoon, the Wildcats saw their perfect 5-0 record fractured. Triangular foe High Point outdistanced Davidson 27-40. Furman finished
with 57 points. Dave Gilmore and Bill Eckbert finished fourth and fifth for the ‘Cats. A little stunned, but with
lots of life left in their legs, the Davidson cross-country runners are looking for an easy win Thursday at Richmond.
Next week should present a different story, as Coach Heath Whittle sees it.

EASY WIN
“We oughta win,” he predicted. “We beat them (Richmond) pretty badly last year. According to times, etc., that you can
compare, and according to depth (Richmond doesn’t have much) we have them.”

The Wildcats rate high in both categories. Bill Eckbert, team co-captain, has shown more than effective speed this year. At
the Pembroke meet he set a new course record of 21:49 minutes, besting the old record by 22 seconds. David
Gilmour, one of last fall's fantastic freshmen, has stayed close to Eckbert time-wise.

LOADED WITH DEPTH
The Wildcat harriers, every last one of them in tip-top shape, are loaded in depth. Says Coach Whittle of sophomore
Mack Brownlee, “All season long I've expected him to be our No. 1 or No. 2 man. Now he’s coming
into his own.” Another sophomore, Bill Coffey, should give future opponents a run for their money. “He's had some good
days and some bad ones, particularly on the road,” commented Whittle. “Bill fluctuates but I think he'll get over that.”
Bob Thompson and co-captain Larry McNeill give the ‘Cats the added depth they need. Coach Whittle, already assured of a
winning season, figures the Wildcats will beat Richmond and lose to V.M.I., putting them at a 6-3 record for the
season.Benson learned in high school and in three years with us.” Dave Warden, Wildcat captain, says that an injured Dole
probably won't be running at his usual strength, though Dole is still sporting. Warden, on the happier side, lauded Booker
Clark and Duncan Morton for their tremendous jobs as defensive ends, and praised Hog Anderson as our “best lineman.”

THE QUESTION MARKS—Gridders Vie Potent V.M.I.

By BILL THOMPSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson soccer team meets a favored Duke squad in Durham tomorrow afternoon in a contest that Wildcat upset. “We've
come a long way in the last three weeks,” Marrotte said. “This, I feel, is the key game of the
season. A win here would mean a successful season.”

Betas Move Into Flickerball Lead

In Monday's action, the league leaders romped to victories by wide margins. The Betas, after an offensively poor first half,
caught fire and defeated the Pi Kapps 27-7. The Phi Delts, led by quarterback Bob Davis, took a 40-12 win
over the Sigma Nus. The Phi Gams lost a 20-0 decision to the Sigma Chis. The Kappa Sigs bounced back
after a poor start and defeated the ATO's 13-7. The SAE’s took the Pika's 25-6, and the KA's beat the
Independents 20-7.

Tuesday's games saw the Betas and Phi Delts take three wins this week. The Phi Delts still have a perfect
record in second place. The Betas had little trouble with the Sigma Nus, whitewashing them 55-0. The Sigma Chis, playing
without an injured Don Killian, lost to the Phi Delts. The Kappa Sigs took a 33-12 win over the SAE’s.
The Sig Ep’s edged the Pika's 13-12. A late Pi Kapp rally failed and the ATO's won by a score
of 13-7. The Independents forfeited to the Phi Gams. Two games were played in Thursday's mud. The ATO’s edged the
Sigma Nus 12-7 and the Betas took a 26-0 win over the Sigma Chis.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Shawl Collar Notch Lapel - After-Six Tuxedos
“PLAYBOY” Natural Shouldered
“CAMBRIDGE” Natural Shouldered
Vests, Cummerbund Sets and Other Accessories
Rentals Also
Rush Wilson Ltd.
$45.00 $69.50

Coach Paul Marrotte said that the possibility of a win over Duke will depend on the answers to two questions:
(1) Can the ‘Cats play against the Blue Devils as they did in the third quarter against Pfeiffer earlier this
week (when they scored three goals)? (2) Can the team continue to hold major injuries to a minimum? “Duke has
the advantage of playing on its home field, but our boys definitely have the desire to win,” Marrotte added. The
‘Cats are now riding a four-game winning streak and a win over ACC member Duke would add to Davidson's prestige.
Duke's style of play is different from Davidson's in that the center halfback plays on offense, instead of defense. The
Duke style, therefore, lends itself to fast-breaking by the wings. Davidson is now 4-1 with half the season gone. After
the 4-0 loss to Carolina, the Wildcats chewed out a 2-1 win over Belmont Abbey, a 3-2 victory over King
College, and a 4-1 win over Belmont Abbey. Last Monday, the head-and-toe men romped by Pfeiffer, 5-0, with Tom Bruns
scoring the first goal early in the game. After that, Pfeiffer rallied and the ‘Cats had a letdown, the first
half ending 1-0. The second half was a different story. The Wildcats came back strong, scoring three goals in the
third quarter, two coming within less than a minute of play. Mike Laughlin scored the first of these, with Glyn
Hughes punching through the second. Laughlin then got the third of the quarter to make it 4-0. Tommy Price added
to the margin of victory in the fourth quarter, making the final score 5-0. Substitutes played most of the last
quarter. The Wildcats have two remaining games at home--ACC power UNC on October 30 and Emory on November 21.

Scott Optimistic On Future

By MACK BROWNLEE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“These boys are really battling,” declared a satisfied Tom Scott as basketball practice moved into its second week. Prospective Wildcat
cagers began workouts Oct. 15. Coach Scott tended to pass over the loss of last year’s seniors. “Of course we'll
miss them, but we have better depth this year. Practically all positions are wide open, and it's too early to
tell who will fill them.”

SPIRIT, DEPTH

Scott continually talked about the spirit of this year’s squad. He also pointed out the ‘Cats will have more speed,
especially at the guard positions, and indicated that he intended to take full advantage of it. “With the depth we
have this year we'll be able to substitute much more freely than last year. We'll use all kinds of defenses,
depending on the players who are in the game. When players whose main value is on offense are in, we
will be more likely to use the zone. With others we can play man-to-man. We should have a defense ready
for every situation.”

SAME OFFENSE

Scott indicated that the offense would be similar to last year’s. “Of course you try to get the best men
open. I expect our guards to add the real impact to our offense.” The two biggest question marks, according to
Scott, are Jim Nuckol’s and Ronnie Anderson. If Anderson comes through, he, Joe Markee, and Bob Moore may be able
to handle the center position, allowing Eddie Stewart to move to forward.

SHINN RETURNS

Scott was evidently counting on high-scoring Bill Shinn for one forward position, but the other berth seemed to be his
biggest worry. He said that if Nuckol’s doesn't prove himself, Stewart will be playing some forward to take up the
slack. “Nuckol’s is 6’ 6" and we could use that height in there. Also, a lot depends on our seven
sophomores; last year they were the core of the best freshman team in years.”

TOUGH SCHEDULE

Scott seemed pleased with this year’s schedule. “We play some of the top teams, and of course, most people would
give us better than a fifty-fifty chance of losing to Louisville.” He noted that Tennessee and Wake Forest would be
real challenges for the ‘Cats and was pleased to have two games with Clemson. Scott gave evidence that he was
thinking less of going down the ladder in the Southern Conference than going up. Looking at the season in general,
he said, “We should do better this year, yes, I think we will.”
