Southern Conference Meets Begin (Page Three) VOL. XLV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1959 DEFEATS LIVINGSTON IN RUN-OFF The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College Greek Week Details (Page Four) NO. 20 Green Named Council President Scholarship Applicant Finalists Visit Campus Forty high school seniors, this year’s scholarship finalists, are guests of the college this weekend in the final stage of competition for the coveted grants which includes interviews and tests. These men, who are staying at the Guest House, will meet for separate interviews with the following members of the scholarship committee: Dr. McGavock, Dr. Bevan, Dr. Ratliff, Dr. Fredericksen, Professor Evans, and Mr. White. Finalists in the competition have been divided into two groups, one of which arrived Wednesday, and the other Thursday. Past scholarship winners are serving as student hosts. From these finalists a group will be chosen as winners. The number of winners varies according to financial resources and qualifications of applicants, commented Mr. White, Assistant Dean of Students and Secretary of the Scholarship Committee. “All of the finalists who need financial assistance will be offered aid in one way or another,” he explained. Two of the applicants are from Winston-Salem: Zach Smith and Bill Denham. Other Tar Heel boys include: Bill Cunningham, Kernersville; Jimmy Fisher, Fayetteville; Peter Gold, Shelby; Miller Goss, Hendersonville; Ronnie Lewis, Durham; Jason McDaniel, Rutherfordton; Robert Miller, Chapel Hill; Ralph Reid, Pineville; John Webb, Oxford; Howard Kress, Belmont; Mitchel Simpson, Concord; and Bill Wallace, Charlotte. Seven South Carolina candidates are Allan Charles, Duncan; Johnny Rogers, Bennettsville; Jimmy Wilkinson, Lugoff; Bob Wynn, Spartanburg; David Dillard, Abbeville; Mac Plaxico, Blacksburg; and Marvin Quattlebaum, Bishopville. The eight applicants from Florida include: John Day, St. Petersburg; Richard Hill, Sebring; Ken Kelley, Jacksonville; Jay Kirk, Clearwater; John McElfresh, Fort Lauderdale; Robert Parker, Tallahassee; Tom Ross, Maitland; and Dudley Salley, Tarpon Springs. Three Georgia boys are finalists: Paul Duvall and Tom Wacaster, East Point; and Alec Morgan, Atlanta. From Virginia are Joe Knight, Norfolk and Dick Vaughan, Madison Heights. Other scholarship finalists include Keith Brenner, Bethesda, Maryland; David Brieten, Kearny, New Jersey; Danny Carrell, Louisville, Kentucky; Fred Green, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas; Bucky Harris, Logan, West Virginia; and E. B. Robinson, Centreville, Mississippi. Voluntary Chapel Shows Progress Scott Woodmansee, Chairman of the YMCA’s Spiritual Life Committee, reported early this week that “I think the results of the voluntary chapel program have been encouraging. I know there are a lot of boys interested.” The idea was conceived because of the poor worship atmosphere in the regular chapel services. It is intended to provide an opportunity for faculty, administration, and students alike to worship under the proper conditions. The twenty-minute service is held every Monday and Wednesday morning at 10:20 in Lingle Chapel. Students of the Committee plan and conduct the devotionals. A different student leads each service. In the past such voluntary programs have failed because of lack of student participation. This is not the case, so far, with the 1959 version. Since the program’s initial service in early February several dozen of the student body members have attended its devotionals regularly. Jim Black will be in charge next Monday and Wesley Weeks on Wednesday. Martin’s Manor Houses Local Elite In Decaying Splendor By DON STOWELL Davidsonian Feature Writer Manor is the luxurious home of Davidson's country club set. It has virtually everything, including mothballs, mice, and a part-time mistress. Inside the white frame house on the corner of the campus, the carpeted floors and delicately flowered wallpaper give a taste of the genteel enjoyed by the privileged few. The only thing to mar the quiet splendor is the faint smell of mothballs. Housed in comfortable seclusion are sixteen of Davidson’s most illustrious students. Truly a cross-section of the student body, the residents of the Manor represent the Student Council, Union workers, ROTC officers, athletes, the thin editor of the annual, as well as the ATO, Beta, Kappa Sig, Phi Delt, Phi Gam, Pika, and Pi Kapp social fraternities. The automobiles in the spacious but full parking area are as much a cross-section as the residents. Ray Spangler’s Ford is not any less comfortable when it is parked next to Jim Yarborough’s Ford than when it is next to Roy Gilbert’s prize Triumph. The only major complaint, besides the distance from the center of the campus, is about the soot which appears whenever the heating system is turned on. One resident, however, recalled the night when, after hearing some noise in his room, he turned on the light and was confronted by a mouse on his dresser. The partly pink beds, reminders of the previous (Continued On Page Four) Retiring Student Body President John Kuykendall (left) congratulates Dee Green, president-elect, after his victory in today’s election. Green defeated Bob Livingston and John Huie in run-off voting yesterday and today. Faculty Board To Begin Quest For TV Quiz Kids By ED ARMFIELD Davidsonian Managing Editor The tentative date for the appearance of the Davidson contingent is set for Sunday, April 19, but this is subject to alteration. If the contest on the preceding Sunday is a tie, there will be a rematch the following week. College officials will not know until after the contest on Sunday, April 12, whether Davidson will be appearing the following week. Dr. Marrotte told the DAVIDSONIAN this week that an incomplete preliminary list has been drawn up of those being considered for participation. This list includes: Larry Baggett, Monty Bracey, Richard Brubaker, Addison Bross, Charles Chastain, Ervin Duggan, Tom Kernan, John Kuykendall, Alfred McKay, Bob Livingston, Don Stein, Stuart Lau- rens, John Toumaras, and Wright. Committee Chairman Marrotte explained that students are encouraged to submit additional names, including their own, to him by next Tuesday, March 10, for consideration, as the above list is by no means final or complete. Dr. Marrotte stressed his request that all interested students contact him in order that the strongest possible team be selected to represent Davidson on the nation-wide show. Davidson's first title defense may be an added Spring Frolics attraction. If Davidson's panel competes and is victorious on April 19, the program the following Sunday, April 26, will be telecast from Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Marrotte gave a reminder that in order to assure a good performance under such conditions the team “will have to be in training over the weekend.” Student, faculty and administration interest has been building up over the prospect of Davidson's being represented, Marrotte said, not only because of the excellent national publicity but also because a $1500 scholarship goes to the school of the winning panel each week.No second chances, Dr. Marrotte and Peryin'

By CHARLES CHASTAIN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Elected As Secretary-Treasurer

Dee Green was elected President of the Student Body in after-chapel voting this morning. Green, who will head next year’s Student Council, defeated Bob Livingston in the second run-off held in the presidential race. John Huie was eliminated in the first run-off yesterday morning. D. G. Martin, a rising sophomore, was elected Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Body Tuesday morning, edging out Harrison Wellford in the third run-off in the contest. The election of Green and Martin completes the list of Student Body officers to be elected first and second Vice Presidents last week.

Kuykendall Announces Honor Court Nominees

Student Body President John Kuykendall announced in chapel this morning the names of twenty-four students nominated as candidates for membership in next year's Honor Court. These “official” candidates, two for each vacant seat on the Court, were selected by a joint committee consisting of the Student Council and several representatives from the faculty. Other nominations have been made by individual students, and the two lists combined will make up the slate of Honor Court candidates to be voted on next week. The faculty-Student Council nominations are as follows:

For the rising senior class, which will have six representatives on the Court, the committee picked Bob Avinger, Larry Baggett, Charlie Benson, George Hart, John Huie, Bob Livingston, Larry McNeill, Woody Morcock, Tommy Price, Dabney Stuart, Joe Verrault, and Dave Warden.

Candidates from the rising junior class, which will have four seats on the Court, are Jerry Cole, Ervin Duggan, Tyree Finch, Ed Kizer, Scott Lacy, Jim Nuckolls, Henry Shue, and Wesley Weeks.

Nominees from the rising sophomores, who will seat two members of the Court, are David Gilmour, Bob Stone, George Trask, and Harrison Wellford.

When the full membership of the Court is elected, they will choose one of the rising seniors as chairman, and one other member as recorder. Honor Court members will hold office from their election to the time of their graduation, and they will not be allowed to hold any other campus-wide offices. The President of the Student Body will be a permanent non-voting member of the Court.

Also voted on and approved Tuesday were two amendments to the Student Body Constitution; the effect of which will be to modify the plan of voting in spring elections and to remove two offices from student elections completely. The first amendment changes Section 4 of the By-Laws to the Student Body Constitution to read: “There shall be five phases in Student Body elections: (1) Student Body Officers; (2) Honor Court; (3) Class Presidents; (4) Freshman Advisor, Y.M.C.A., and Publications; (5) Student Council Representatives.”

The other amendment added the following to the By-Laws as Section 6: “Athletic Council representatives and Head Cheerleader will be appointed by the Student Council within fifteen (15) days of Student Body elections.” These amendments took effect immediately, and the remainder of this elections period will be conducted according to the new plan.

Florida Presbyterian Welcomes New Ideas

By DICK SMITH
Davidsonian Managing Editor

“The educational challenge today is not merely to provide another good school but to provide one which will give an education of quality.” So stated Dr. John M. Bevan, Dean of Faculty of Florida Presbyterian College, in a DAVIDSONIAN interview last Wednesday. Accordingly, the administration of the new college in St. Petersburg, Florida, has examined a large number of American colleges and universities in attempting to answer this challenge. Dr. Bevan went on, “We have found a terrific esprit-de-corps in all institutions trying to modernize their teaching methods. We are convinced that, starting a new school as we are, we have a decided advantage over other colleges. We can plan our physical plant around our educational concepts, and consequently won't have the problem of expending a lot of energy trying to catch up with modern methods. We have the chance to start big.”

The new college’s curriculum will be designed to meet the individual’s needs, and each man will have the chance to plan his course of study as will best suit his future interests. Dr. Bevan, using the pre-med program as an example, stated “Our program will be nothing like the one here at Davidson with its one set pattern of courses. If a man wants to go to a particular med school, we look at that school’s curriculum and entrance requirements. We give him what he needs to get in the school, but we will stop there. There will not be any duplication of med school courses. This is not to say, however, that we will not offer other courses that this particular student would like to take. He could take these as electives, but not as graduation requirements. So this man has his course of pre-med study all mapped out. Along comes another student interested in another med school. We look at its requirements and courses, and may recommend an entirely different study curriculum. This is a tailor-made education, and it is the kind that Florida Presbyterian will offer.”

“The new school's educational concepts have been planned in accordance with three factors. First, we want to maintain faculty dependence and interdependence. Accordingly, we won't have any department, as such. Second, we want to maintain curriculum depth as well as width, and our third will be the emphasis of independent student study. The standard of faculty-student ratio in determining the quality of a school is completely outmoded. Under this system, Davidson has a ratio of about ten to one. How many classes are there with ten students in them? You see, that criterion breaks down rather quickly. Besides, the cost of maintaining such a faculty could easily be prohibitive. Our plan is, with modern teaching methods, to cut down the size of the faculty, and by doing so, we can afford to pay really good men to teach. One of these methods is to use students to help teach other students. Seniors will lead seminars, be lab instructors, and so forth. In a sense, they will be considered part of the college faculty, and we may put their name on division stationary.”

He went on to say that “there is no reason under the sun that this system could not be tried at Davidson.” Each year every professor will submit a prospectus of a seminar course he would like to teach in the coming year. These folders would be available to students. A certain number of these courses will be required for graduation, and each will have no more than fifteen students. Also required of all students will be a course in Western Civilization, carrying four hours’ credit. A large lecture class will meet four times a week, and groups of fifteen will meet for discussion twice a week.

(Continued On Page Four)