The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO, FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1959

All Things To All Men?

In his Inaugural Address last Wednesday, President Howard F. Lowry of the College of Wooster touched on what we consider to be the gravest problem that Davidson must face in the future. “The problem facing President Martin and Davidson College,” said Dr. Lowry, “is that of growing larger so that more students may have the privilege of attending a small school.” The remark was followed by a hearty round of chuckles. We hope the words, not the chuckles, ring clear in the ears of the Trustees.

We feel, as do they, a great deal of pride in Davidson, especially at a time when its virtues are being praised to the extent they have been in the past week. We oppose adamantly, however, any move toward making Davidson larger. There are Trustees, we are sure, who would extend the physical plant of the school even to the farthest bounds of the old golf course, and then seek more land on which to build. We hope there are enough of their colleagues who cherish and revere the traditions and advantages of a small school sufficiently to let us now concentrate on the name “quality” that Davidson stamps on its graduates, and not stress quantity with which some would be satisfied.

As Dr. Lowry said, Davidson cannot be all things to all men. We must content ourselves with, indeed we must set as our ultimate goal, the job of being some things to some men. We are confident that the college administration recognizes this; we can say that the student body wants this. But we can only try to persuade the Trustees that the only role in which Davidson can lead and excel is as a small liberal arts college. To think that Davidson can become an outstanding large college or university is mere folly. To try to make her that, or a poor reproduction of the same, would be a tragic mistake.

The arguments that the student body presents do not even touch on the very real problems of physical plant and faculty. The 1957-67 Ten Year Plan is designed to give us an outstanding plant for one thousand men. After we have attained this goal would the Trustees immediately set out toward what might seem to be grander and more glorious goals of expansion? We hope not.

We, too, are proud of Davidson. But what we are proud of is not just the fact that it is Davidson. We are proud of what the name means. It has never meant a large, impersonal campus void of contacts between students and faculty. It has always meant, and must continue to mean, a small, personal school, where individual contacts are of the essence. It has meant a favorable student-faculty ratio. To violate the present goal of one thousand men would be to violate the heritage and tradition of one hundred and twenty-two years of progress. It would be an experiment to make Davidson “all things to all men.” Instead, we should glory in our opportune role as being “some things to some men.”

Sun Also Rises

After watching the College Bowl Sunday afternoon, we were relieved to look out the window in the morning and see that the sun was still shining and the College was still standing. All of which, although it is much easier to sulk in defeat, leads us to re-evaluate the outcome of the show.

When the final whistle blew, the Davidson television audience realized that the home team had started its surge a little too late to bring home the championship, but in the same instant realized that the team hadn’t missed a trick in giving Davidson a good name to the nation.

There are two irrefutable pieces of evidence supporting this conclusion. First, the many letters that Bob Livingston has received in answer to his nationwide plea have all held one common note, both from Northerners and Southerners, and that note was one of the fine impression the television audience had of the college in the persons of the four team members. A note of much interest was the telegram received from an official of the CBS television network which carried the show. Said the wire, “Your ambassadors who represented Davidson to America on the GE College Bowl may have been short in points scored but they scored heavily in gaining friendship and appreciation for their school. No non-winning team ever made such a splendid impression as Davidson.”

The only possible conclusion is this: the publicity and the favorable impression that the nation received from the team is worth much more than a fifteen hundred dollar scholarship, and while it would have been nice to have had both, the college community is proud of its representatives. Much commendation is due to Dr. Paul Marrotte, team coach, who groomed the foursome to the exact peak needed for the program. They felt “no lack of preparation; we just didn’t have the breaks.”

The incessant whistling and humming of “Come Softly To Me” is simply our way of showing our interest and feeling, and of saying “Thanks” for a fine try and a perfect representation.

Well Done!

In any spectacular event it is the unnoticed effort of many nameless individuals which makes possible the success of the occasion. This cannot be overlooked in observing the smoothness and effectiveness of President Martin’s inauguration. —R.C.S.

Nameless anonymous efforts deserve mention which will be overlooked unintentionally because of the quietness and efficiency of the actors. The committee in charge of arrangements should not escape large credit for their thoroughness evidenced in every phase of the ceremonies. Some people stand out: Mr. Hobart and his indispensable ground crew; Mr. Horton and John Trask whose constant work involved them in every phase; Mrs. Moore; the Slater people. The committee responsible for the student appreciation night created an instantaneous atmosphere which was in full harmony with the intent of the evening. The single impression was geared to symbolizing the student body's wholehearted support of their President Martin. The men behind the scenes did a good job Wednesday. —R.E.L.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Jim Hamilton

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Livingston

Associate Editor
Ervin Duggan

Editorial Assistant
Bob Moore

Managing Editors
Ed Armfield
Dick Smith
Dave Gillis

Assignments Editor
David Jordan

Copy Editor
Dan Clemmer

Cartoonists
Redding Starling

Advertising Manager
Charlie Rowe

Circulation Mgr.
Albert McClure, Jr.

Ass't. Business Manager
Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

FOR LIVINGSTON:
Mail Pours In—
But No Date Yet
By ERVIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

What happens when a student broadcasts a nationwide appeal for a Spring Frolics date? Bobby Livingston—who did just that on last week’s CBS “College Bowl”—has the answer. “The girls really came through,” said the smiling junior. “I’ve got enough names for a lonely-hearts club.”

Livingston, captain of Davidson’s College Bowl Quiz team, surprised television viewers by issuing an “appeal to the nation” for a Spring Frolics date. “If there’s an available girl out there,” he said during half-time of the quiz game, “I wish she’d let me know.”

By the middle of this week Livingston had received a sizeable stack of letters, and every mail delivery was turning up more.

“DADDY'S PLANE”

Letters came from all over the nation. A Santa Monica, California, model wrote: “Too bad I can’t get my license until this summer, or I'd borrow Daddy's plane and fly down... Forgive me for being so bold, but you look like great fun, and I'm in a rare and daring mood tonight.”

One of the earliest letters arriving was from an Atlanta high schooler who urged Livingston to “feel free to call on me any time,” enclosing a telephone number and a photograph proving her to be an attractive blonde. “She says she’ll be at Hollins College next year,” said Livingston, “so I guess I’ll file that letter.”

A writer from Hickory, North Carolina begged Livingston to “forgive my familiarity,” suggesting warmly that she felt for him “a kinship that would make any formality seem affected.”

“MY QUALIFICATIONS”

Some letters were merely congratulatory (“You've done us Southerners proud!”) while others displayed an unveiled feminine interest (“I wish to submit my qualifications.”) Most letters left the way open for future communication. “If you write back, please tell me about yourself,” said one obviously fascinated New York girl. A few letters contained pictures and almost every one included statistics listing the age, height, eye and hair color of the hopeful candidate.

“WE'RE AVAILABLE!”

The most forthright response was a letter penned by three Bowling Green, Kentucky, girls. The message? Simply a giant “We're available!” scrawled across the page.As the day of Spring Frolics approached, Livingston appeared pleased and a bit bewildered at the enthusiastic response to his nationwide plea. “These things are going to be tough to answer,” he said.

THE OUTCOME

Did he get a date? Here's the story: Still dateless on Thursday, Livingston moved into action. A call was placed to one of the letter writers, who accepted eagerly and began making plans to come. Newspapers in Charlotte asked for pictures of the lucky girl meeting her date; telegrams praising Livingston were sent to reassure her parents. Hope rode high. But soon after nightfall, the telephone rang; the girl’s father, frankly suspecting a hoax, vetoed the trip for his daughter. A hurried survey of girls’ schools failed to turn up a date. Friday, moving out of his dormitory to make room for the flood of other-men’s-dates, Livingston was still hoping faintly that there might be a chance. The appeal still stood, a trickle of letters was still coming—and somewhere there MUST be a girl. The little warrior was undaunted: “Tell everybody I’m vanquished, but not defeated,” he said.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

Family Issues Blood Plea: Hart Blasts Drink-Ban Critic

Dan Clemmer

Dear Editor:

We would like to use your columns to publish the following letter:

To the students of Davidson College:

Last semester our fraternity, Sigma Phi Epsilon, pledged a freshman, Don Blews, but because of sickness he was forced to withdraw from school at Thanksgiving. For some time before he came to school, his sister Barbara had been critically ill. Her condition demanded a great amount of blood from the Miami, Florida, blood bank. The amount borrowed from the bank must either be replaced or paid for. Her family has written to us and asked if our fraternity could help them. We have agreed to donate our blood to her through the blood drive to be held next Monday, April 27. The other fraternities have been asked to enter this drive. We thought that if you had no other recipient in mind, you might also donate your blood to her. Any type will be accepted. Should there be a surplus amount, the blood will be returned to the Charlotte blood bank to be used in this area. Should you decide to do this, you may tell the officials Monday that you wish to donate your blood to:

Miss Barbara Blews
124 N. Royal Poinciana Blvd.
Miami Springs, Florida

We would certainly appreciate your consideration of this request.

Sincerely,
Dan Clemmer, President
Sigma Phi Epsilon

Spirit Of Spring by Starling Davidson

Gents Laud, Lambast Girls’ Schools in Frolics Poll

Davidson students, according to a recent DAVIDSONIAN poll, disagree widely over the attractions at nearby girls’ schools. In connection with the Spring Frolics dance weekend, the DAVIDSONIAN posed the following two questions to a cross-section of Davidson students: At which girls’ school do you like most to date, and why? At which girls’ school do you like least to date, and why? Typical answers cover almost every girls’ school within driving distance of Davidson. The comments range from enthusiastic approval to outright disgust for the nearby female institutions of higher learning.

Queens College evoked most comment among the students polled by the DAVIDSONIAN. The greatest reason for the Charlotte school’s popularity was its nearness to Davidson. “It’s close, and I like it,” said one Davidson gentleman about Queens. Similar praise contrasted with the statement by a Davidson student that “Queens has the only group of girls that have been nowhere and think they've been everywhere.” Another critic said: “The proportion of pigs at Queens is about 99 to 1 in favor of the pigs.”

Student opinion of Salem College revealed the same wide range of feeling. “The girls at Salem are sick, sick, sick,” said one Davidson junior. “Anyone who derives pleasure from jumping up and down at Mountain Springs every Saturday night to the strains of ‘music’ which is decidedly Afro-American in origin must be sick.” “I like the type of girl that goes to Salem,” stated a senior. “They're not the type that go to Hollins or some other sorry, pitiful school.”

Hollins gained praise from several students, however, because “the girls are freer to date and can stay out later than those of most other girls’ schools.” “It’s easier for me to get dates there,” commented another Hollins admirer. “Hollins has a bunch of snobs,” said a student with a different opinion of the school. “When you leave Davidson you want to get pretty earthy; Hollins girls are aloof.”

Sweetbriar College, another Virginia school, was frequently mentioned. “I like to date at Sweetbriar because you might as well hunt for a rich wife while you're at it,” stated one gentleman from Davidson. Randolph Macon, still another Virginia school, received this comment: “When the girls up there are fed up with you they send you the sweetest shaft letters.”

Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C., interested many students. A Davidson senior said: “The girls at Converse seem more polished, easier to talk with. The chances of getting good dates there are better.” The opposite opinion was expressed by a freshman. “They’re a bunch of country girls,” he said.

“I like Agnes Scott,” said a Davidson freshman. “My girl goes there. They’re friendly as heck down there, and there are more things to do.” “Sullins College is my choice,” a sophomore said, “because of the beautiful, untamed, young animals running around the campus.” St. Mary’s in Raleigh was held in disfavor by one Davidson student “because I really got stuck there on a blind date one time.”

“My choice is Woman's College in Greensboro,” said a sophomore. “They've got plenty of variety over there.” And a student made this comment about Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Virginia: “It seems like a good place. The girls are fairly intelligent, good looking, and they have to walk up hills, which gives them beautiful calves.”

George Hart

Dear Editor:

A few comments may be made on last week's article entitled “Students Should Repeal Drink Ban.” The “student code” is a product of the students’ minds, granted; however, the faculty, the administration of Davidson College, its trustees and the traditions of the college itself, while not as explicit as the voice of the Davidson student, play a decisive role in the formulation of any “student code.” The influence of these institutions, however gently applied, cannot be denied. So let’s be realistic: the Davidson student will enact no legislation nor repeal any statute without official college approval.

For the moment may we look at the paragraph where the statement is made that “the trend seems to be away from rules which would dictate morals, for they are considered as matters of individual choice.” Can one imagine the chaos that would result in a community from each person having his own private moral code? The mere absence of any such community in recorded history would seem to validate the impossibility of such a situation. As a matter of fact, Mr. Taylor’s third paragraph explicitly recognizes the right of society to voice in conduct.

Another objection comes from the use of the word “trend.” Trend generally means the tendency of a factor to grow or decline over a period of time. Now a statistician makes use of data, or facts if you will, that are pertinent to his analysis to determine what the trend of a factor will be. Some figures to back up generalizations would have been helpful, for without statistics how does one distinguish fact from prejudice? It might be asked why, if such a trend for repeal exists on campus, was it not in evidence in recent student elections?

The final objection, though by no means the last that could be made, is that the tone of Mr. Taylor's article seems to me to suggest that he considers the community here at Davidson primarily, if not exclusively, social. Granted, the average American social community, such as your home town and mine, approves drinking and gambling, whether positively or passively through habitual practice. However, it must be emphasized that Davidson is primarily an academic community. No matter how important the social aspects are in practice, in theory academic priority must remain primary in the long run, and every effort should be made to make theory practice. The goals of an academic community are, to my mind, learning and discipline. Drinking and gambling are not conducive to the attainment of these goals. Davidson grants no degrees for “chug-a-luggin’” or “taking the pot.” The day she does will be the time to sanction their practice.

George W. Hart, '60