PAGE FOUR

Famous Jazz Trio To Present Concert On Tuesday, April 7 at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium

Rock 'n Roll will give way to the Jazz of the internationally famous Bernard Peiffer and his trio now on tour of the United States eastern seaboard to the south and midwest. Affiliated with the Mutual Concert Association, this trio of Peiffer on the piano, Gus Nemeth with the bass, and Gerry Segal at the drums will be sponsored by the Gamma Kappa Chapter of the Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Honorary Music Fraternity of Davidson College.

Bernard Peiffer has received numerous praises for his musical talent. “Billboard” speaks of his technique as showing “imagination and displaying his classical background without getting too far away from a jazz approach.” “Down Beat” identifies him as “an honest artist of forcefulness and impressive musical knowledge.” In the words of Leonard Bernstein, Bernard Peiffer is “a real virtuoso of jazz.” Since 1956 Peiffer has been entertaining Americans in the great jazz rooms of Chicago, Washington, Philadelphia, and New York. In July of 1957 and 1958 he played at the Newport Jazz Festival several numbers which Decca Records has recorded in a collection called “The Astounding Bernard Peiffer.” This was followed by the albums “Bernie’s Tunes” and “Piano a la Mood.”

Peiffer played at the Charlie Parker Memorial Concert in Carnegie Hall and also held a recital at the Philadelphia Academy of Music at which he played Ravel, Prokofieff, and Peiffer originals during the first half and changed to jazz with his Birdland colleagues for the remainder of the program. “Rock and roll,” according to Peiffer “is nothing... it will soon fade out completely. More and more real jazz is being played on radio and television, gaining new fans, and that is fine.” Concerning America, Peiffer admitted, “I get a jazz feeling I could never get in France... Jazz, like pure French wine, is from the ground where it has gathered the essence of its surroundings for years and years.”

At his program here on April 7, Peiffer will entertain with such numbers as “Lullaby of Birdland,” “Autumn Leaves,” “Soon,” “Yesterdays,” “Last Night When We Were Young,” “Black Moon,” and many other familiar pieces of jazz and classical nature. Tickets for this performance may be obtained at a reduced student rate of $1.25 at the Union desk between the hours of 2:30-4:30 p.m. and 8:30-10:30 a.m. prior to the performance date. The price of $1.50 has been set for all gate sales. Interested persons may write: Dept. of Music, Davidson College, Box 356, Davidson, N.C., or phone TWinoaks 2-2121.

Students Reserve New Dorm Rooms

“Boys, choose your roommates,” said Mrs. Moore this week. “You can’t get a room for next fall unless you have one.” The Bursar's Office sent out a letter two weeks ago stating that an advance deposit of $25.00 on tuition for the 1959-60 session was due by tomorrow, March 21. Payment of this deposit is required to hold a place at the college and to reserve a dorm room for next year.

Students may reserve rooms in the following order: 1. occupants wishing to retain their present room along with a new roommate — March 23; 2. rising seniors and roommates — March 24; 3. rising juniors and roommates — March 25; and, 4. rising sophomores and roommates — March 26. Mrs. Moore will be in her office from 7:45 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. and from 7:00 p.m. until 9:00 p.m. during this period. She further stressed that to make it fair to all concerned no one would be allowed to change roommates until the end of the first semester. This rule was enacted to eliminate the possibility of rising seniors and rising sophomores signing up as roommates and later switching roommates with a similar pair all of whom would receive choice rooms. Those interested in being hall counselors should apply now to Mrs. Moore for a position.

Boys desiring to room in town must receive permission from her, although practically all places are filled for next year.

Want to Stay Civilian? Don’t Run, Take Test!

The Selective Service College Qualification Test will be given at Davidson on April 30. Students who expect to enter a graduate school next fall or any undergraduate who needs the test to qualify to stay in college should take it. Dr. Puckett can furnish details concerning the test. Application forms, which can be secured from any Selective Service Board, must be sent in prior to April 9.

D Club Produces “Foolies” Minstrel

The “D Club Foolies” will be held Friday night, April 24, in Chambers Auditorium. This year's performance will be a Minstrel Show. Ray Atkins is producer and Tom Kernan is writing the script. “They should do a real good job of it,” commented Alex Porter, of the Foolies Committee. The parts will be decided next week. “We're going to have a lot of good acts. Ray and Tom have a lot of good ideas. This one should really be a lot better than last year’s,” stated Porter. Porter was reticent to comment about the disapproval of the faculty concerning the proposed performance, “They were worried about the ‘racial tension,” he explained. “It will be poking fun at the school instead of the colored people.”

HI-FI COMPONENTS At Wholesale Net Prices Across From Ivey's 5th St. Entrance 126 West Fifth St.

Professors Attend Colorado Meeting

Professor George L. Abernethy, Chairman of the Faculty Committee on Graduate Scholarships, announced today that five seniors, Ed Stevens, John Kuykendall, Charles Chastain, Walter O’Briant, and Scotty Wilson, have received fellowships for graduate study next year. Stevens and Kuykendall were...

Swiss Mata-Hari Dance At Davidson

On April 2, Thursday, at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium, the Davidson College Artist Series will present the Swiss born dance team Mata & Hari in their production of “The World in Pantomime.” Accompanied by composer-pianist Silvio Masciarelli and commentator Herbert Nielsen, these dancing satirists have designed a program for the eye, ear, and the imagination. Coming to the concert stage in 1947, this couple has been on tour since 1948, presenting pantomime stories touched with irony, humor, and pathos. At present they are a top dance attraction on television. They have appeared in three major Broadway productions, in Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer’s film version of “Meet the People,”...

Complete news coverage of all aspects of Davidson life. It will be my policy to give extra attention to the activities of campus groups in order that they may reach a larger segment of the student body. A complete sports page featuring more action shots and more on-the-spot coverage of sports events will add to the readability of the DAVIDSONIAN. More of the personal interview features with both coaches and athletes will be used to bring athletics to the student body in a more personal way. Complete coverage of sports will be instrumental in developing the much neglected Davidson spirit.

Of course, the DAVIDSONIAN is first and foremost the college newspaper. As Editor I will strive to present complete news coverage of all aspects of Davidson life. Peter Marshall once said, “If you don’t stand for something, you'll fall for anything.” To serve the college community the DAVIDSONIAN must not hesitate to take a definite editorial stand on matters which are relevant to us here. If elected Editor of the DAVIDSONIAN, I will take a definite stand on matters and problems of campus interest. The DAVIDSONIAN should be a positive force working for Davidson College. As Editor of the DAVIDSONIAN, I will use the editorial columns to further the interests of the college. When criticism is in order I shall...criticize, but always in a positive, constructive vein. As Editor, I will try to reflect student body sentiment along with our heritage both as individuals and as a school. The remaining columns of the second page will be features, home-grown cartoons, letters to the Editor, articles of local interest, and other columns.

awarded Rockefeller Brothers Theological Fellowships, which cover full expenses for a trial year in any accredited seminary in the country. Stevens plans to study at Harvard Divinity School, and Kuykendall will enter Union Seminary in Richmond.

‘Students Plan For and in top supper clubs from coast to coast, including Hollywood, Las Vegas, and New York. Advertised as “high comedy at its best,” Mata and Hari Med College Tests The Medical College Admissions Test will be given on Saturday, May 2. Any student who intends to apply for admittance to a medical school next fall should take the test. Interested students should contact Dr. Puckett at once and obtain application forms. Test applications must be forwarded to the Educational Testing Service before April 18.

mond. Each year the Rockefeller Brothers Foundation awards sixty such fellowships to graduating seniors. This year’s awards bring the total won by Davidson students to eight since 1954. Only three colleges or universities in the country have won a larger number. Chastain, O’Briant, and Wilson have received Woodrow Wilson Fellowships, which are intended to encourage college seniors to prepare for college teaching. They provide stipends of $1500 plus tuition for a year of graduate study. These awards bring the total to nine that Davidson students have won since the program has been in operation. The Woodrow Wilson Foundation has informed the Faculty Committee on Graduate Scholarships that next year’s competition will be held earlier in the fall. Thus students will not be able to take the Graduate Record Examination early enough next year to have GRE scores submitted for consideration in the competition. It is stressed that juniors who expect to enter the Wilson competition next fall should take the morning section of the GRE in April. Interested juniors should consult Professor Abernethy.

Junior Year in New York A unique one-year college program New York University Senior Year Write for brochure to: New York University New York 3, N.Y.

suit and relax with a Coke! Charlotte 2, N. C. In a Romantic Italian Atmosphere W. Morehead at Wilkinson Blvd. Charlotte, N. C. COKE IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK. COPYRIGHT © 1959 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Yes, up and down the alley you'll find the smartest account execs call for Coke during important meetings. The cold crisp taste, the real refreshment of Coca-Cola are just what the client ordered. Periscope and take a look into the situation. Ad men of the future!—start your training now—climb into a gray flannel BE REALLY REFRESHED...HAVE A COKE! Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

specialize in hilarious take-offs on such institutions as ballet, movies, theatre, modern science, science fiction, the circus, and sports newsreels. Tickets for the performance may be purchased at the door for $2.00, and season tickets will be valid.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

I enter the race for editor of the DAVIDSONIAN fully aware of the editor’s responsibility to the students, and also his responsibility in presenting Davidson to readers outside the college community. I feel that I am qualified for the editorship having worked on newspaper staffs for the past five years. My work on the sports page has been excellent preparation since it deals with all phases of newspaper work from the mechanics of make-up, assignments, head writing, and proofreading, to editorials, features, and the setting of style. Also, besides my work in other sections of the DAVIDSONIAN, I have written for various newspapers in this area and have done work for both the Associated Press and United Press wire services. The news story is the basic element in any paper, and I would keep the standard of writing high by holding periodic meetings with the reporters to discuss effective writing. Along with clear, concise news stories, I plan to use a pertinent selection of pictures on the front and back pages. The editorial page would deal with local issues and any national or international situations deemed relevant to the student. The editorial policy would attempt to be constructive and progressive and not merely critical. Among the various issues for which I plan to campaign are a modified cut system and an improved curriculum. Also, as much space as possible would be given to students who desire to express their opinions in letters to the editor. On the sports page, I would attempt to continue the policy I followed this year, giving adequate coverage to all sports with as much space as possible dedicated to interfraternity athletics. Whether elected or not, I promise to do my best to present an imaginative paper that will maintain the DAVIDSONIAN’s position as one of the best college newspapers in the country.

DICK SMITH

The banner of the DAVIDSONIAN calls it “The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College.” It is up to the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN (1) to be responsible for reporting Davidson College news to the student body, and (2) to formulate and express the paper’s editorial policy. It is with these aims in mind that I submit a brief outline of the policy that the 1959-60 DAVIDSONIAN will follow if I am elected editor. In the field of news, all college and campus events will have a place in the publication, including those of current student interest and those still unannounced to the student body. They will be reported accurately and rapidly. Sports coverage will continue to be interesting, and there will be a good deal more emphasis on intramurals. Those reporters who write sports articles will receive the same instruction as news writers, ensuring the same high quality of writing for the sports page as for the front and back pages.

GET SET NOW FOR THE CAROLINA CUP FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1959

Candidates Voice Editorial Policies

My editorial policy will be a liberal one. When a change would benefit the student body and the college, it will be my job to voice the proposed change to those who should hear it. The editorial page will be of a constructive nature; in criticizing a situation, I will try at the same time to suggest a way to solve the problem. I can promise a thought-provoking editorial column, backed by enough research, both on and off the campus, to make each editorial concrete in argument. I want to publish or listen to your ideas, for it is by your interest, I believe, that the success of THE DAVIDSONIAN should be measured. If elected, my job as editor will be to provide for you a voice to the faculty, to the administration, to the trustees, and to the student body in general, and I will do my best to accomplish these goals.

AND AZALEA FESTIVAL WITH AN OUTSTANDING OUTFIT FROM OUR COLLECTION WILSON-WRIGHT’S, Inc. “Collegiate Fashions”

©1959 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company

taste because EM combines the two essentials of modern smoking,” says TV’s Jack Lescoulie. LOW TAR: EM's patented filtering process adds extra filter fibers electrostatically, crosswise to the stream of smoke...makes EM truly low in tar. MORE TASTE: EM’s rich mixture of slow burning tobaccos brings you more exciting taste than any other cigarette. LIVE MODERN...CHANGE TO MODERN EM

adequate coverage to all sports with as much space as possible dedicated to interfraternity athletics. Whether elected or not, I promise to do my best to present an imaginative paper that will maintain the DAVIDSONIAN’s position as one of the best college newspapers in the country.