FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1959 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

“They Don’t Know The Meaning Of The Word Impossible”: Tucker

Four Records Fall As Catfish Triumph Over Georgia Powers All That

By JIM HAMILTON

“These boys don’t know the meaning of the word impossible.”—The words of a jubilant George Tucker, whose swimming team swept
to triumphs over Georgia, Emory, and Georgia Tech during the Georgia tour last weekend. “Yes, sir, I was thrown in
three times. Didn’t even get time to let my uniform dry. Think they were trying to drown me. Yes sir,
best trip I’ve ever been on.”

But it was the Georgia meet that had the coach beaming. “Why I wouldn't have given us a snowball’s chance
against Georgia, but we whipped ‘em. Had to break four school records to do it, but we whipped ‘em.

“Georgia led all the way until the last relay. When it started they were ahead by three points. It was
neck and neck until Hudgins hit the water. He swam his hundred in 53 seconds flat—that's better than the time
that won the conference last year—and came in a body’s length ahead.” Eye witnesses said that when Hudgin’s hand touched
the end of the pool, Tucker had already been hurled into the air on the way to his victory dousing.

“What makes it so good,” he continued, “is that all three schools have over four thousand students. And some of
their boys get scholarships, too.

“I'm against swimming scholarships here at Davidson. Need them in football and basketball, but not in swimming. In fact, I
think it would hurt us. Our morale is great now and if two or three boys were getting aid, there
might be some hard feelings. The boys say it's fun to swim this year. Of course,” he added with a
smile, “winning helps that.”

He bubbled on. “Next year we'll have a helluva good team. We only lose Bob Wynne, who's been a terrific
leader as captain, and we've got a great bunch of freshmen coming up. This boy Barry Branch will be what
we need in the sprints. With Branch with us and the rest of the boys back, we won't leave a
record on that board next year. And besides, we'll have that needed depth.

“How do you like the way our divers are coming along? Both Rose and Snider are only sophomores and this
is just Snider’s first year of competition. He got a first place against Tech.”

“And this boy Tom Smith has shown great improvement. He broke the school backstroke record, you know—even though a member
of his harem from Agnes Scott decided to go to Chapel Hill instead of the meet.

“And then there’s John Scott who broke his own breaststroke record and of course there’s Gabel and Hellier and... .
.” There was more, but I had to leave. Anyway when you're talking to Coach Tucker, you don’t end an
interview; you just slip away gracefully.

* * * * *

Any students desiring to go out for football are requested to meet Coach Dole in the gymnasium Monday afternoon. Also,
Coach Marrotte wishes to see any students going out for soccer in the gym, Monday afternoon at four o'clock. Equipment
may be drawn any time Monday morning.

By BILL HELLIER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Fresh from a victorious trip through Georgia, the Davidson swimming team met Washington and Lee in the home pool this
afternoon in what was expected to be one of the biggest tests of the year for the Wildcat swimmers. W.
and L., no longer in the Southern Conference, is able to use their freshmen on the varsity squad and as
a result has a great deal of depth, which has been the ‘Cat tank team’s greatest problem all season.

Last week the swimmers made a record-breaking trip to Georgia, whipping the University of Georgia 45-41, Emory 47-39, and Georgia
Tech 52-34, and setting four school records in the process. Probably the biggest win for the Wildcats was the victory
over the Georgia Bulldogs, who had trounced the ‘Cat tankmen here last year 56-30 with virtually the same team they
have this year.

The medley relay team of Tom Smith, John Scott, George Gabel, and captain Bob Wynne led off against Georgia with
a winning time of 4:24.5, four seconds less than the old school record. After that the ‘Cat fish didn’t take
another first until Scott won the 200 butterfly, tying his present school record. Smith then won the 200 yd. backstroke
with a record time of 2:28.7, ensuring that the outcome of the meet would depend on the final relay.

Hudgins pulled out in front with an amazing :53.0 on the last leg. The team time of 3:46.0 bettered their
best previous time by seven seconds and dropped three and a half seconds from the school record.

Emory proved no match for the Davidson tanksters, while Georgia Tech came much closer to winning than the score indicated.
Against Tech, John Scott tapped his own school record in the butterfly with a time of 2:34.7, and diver Jennings
Snider took a first place in the meet with his best performance this season. The team now has a record
of six wins and only two losses.

Coach George Tucker mentioned that this year’s freshmen squad has been working hard, in spite of having only three meets,
and will be a big help next year. Outstanding prospects are Barry Branch, in freestyle sprints, Tom French and Chase
Hunter in the backstroke, and Herbie Collins and Stephen Young in the breaststroke.

Riflers Finish Busy Week Against Wofford

By MAC BROWNLEE

The Wildcat rifle team finishes a full week today as they fire against the Terriers of Wofford. “The rifle team
has been coming along extremely well,” Captain Mitchell said, after a close loss to Washington and Lee. The team had
just finished its fourth match in five days with victories over Richmond and Furman and losses to The Citadel and
Washington and Lee. After this busy week only a triangular match February 20 with Presbyterian College and Clemson is between
Davidson and the Southern Conference Tournament on March 6.

Although Capt. Mitchell thought the team would show up very well. He cited Carey Pickard especially as having shown recent
improvement.

The team fired its best in the Richmond and Furman meets, scoring 1386 and 1383 respectively, to win easy victories.
Joe Wearn was the leading scorer in The Citadel and Furman matches, while Stan Gaines led against Washington and Lee
and Richmond. Wearn’s 286 against The Citadel was high for the season. The four decisions bring the team record to
five and two, including a league leading team defeating the four top powers of the conference, The Western Carolina Conference.

Joe Wearn — High Scorer

Wildcat Wrestlers Set For Wake Forest

By FRED LANE

The wrestling spotlight focuses this week on Winston-Salem, N. C., where this afternoon the Davidson College wrestling team tumbled with
the Deacons of Wake Forest College. This Atlantic Coast Conference rival should provide a stiff challenge for Davidson's own, who
take a respectable 3-2 record to the Twin City.

Football Drills To Start On Monday

Spring practice will begin for the Davidson football team on Tuesday, February 17, and should end no later than March
21. However, there is the possibility that the pre-season practice will end before March 21. The Department is expecting about
47 boys out with thirteen returning lettermen.

In the latter part of last week victories were registered by the ATO’s over the Independents, KA over Pi Kapp,
KS over Beta, Phi Gams over Pika, SAE students and the Phi Delts had to...ov- er SN, and SX over
SPE. On Monday afternoon, the Independents defeated the Pi Kapps, led by sharp-shooting Quinton Boyd. Trailing by as much as
17 points in the third quarter, the Phi Delts managed to come from behind in the final quarter to emerge
victorious. Determined to win, the 400 yd. freestyle relay team composed of Bill Hellier, Gabel, Wynne, and Tom Hudgins turned
in their best effort of the year with Hudgins finishing only two strokes ahead of the Georgia anchor man. In
a comment directed to the student body, Coach Dole recently stated, “Anyone interested in football is invited to come out
for spring practice.” Coach Dole added, “We lost some good boys this year, and we are going to make some
personnel changes in our squad to replace the men lost by graduation. We have been hurt most by the loss
of some excellent halfbacks and guards."

Phi Delts Hold Lead; Handball Play Starts
By PETE WYRICK

Interfraternity basketball competition neared the home stretch this week with ten games being played and only four rounds remaining. The
Phi Delts still reside in first place with a clean slate. Boosted in their last quarter rally by the appearance
of Bob Denham and Fred Pharr, who had been unable to play most of the game, they managed to secure
their lead. On Tuesday night, the SAE’s and Phi Gams lengthened their win streaks by downing the SPE’s and SX’s.
In the other two games, the KA’s defeated the Pikas, and the KS's downed the Sigma Nu's. The I-F handball
tourney began Monday afternoon. At the end of the third round, the Betas, ATO’s, and KA's lead the league with
3-0 records.

Do You Think for Yourself?

1. If you get stuck on a crossword puzzle, do you (A) finally refer to a dictionary, or (B) leave
the puzzle unfinished?
2. Would you rather be (A) the designer of the first successful space vehicle to the moon, or (B) the
first man to ride in it?
3. If you were faced with two tasks, one pleasant and the other unpleasant, would you first do (A) the
unpleasant task, or (B) the pleasant task?
4. If you find you aren't doing well in an activity, do you (A) concentrate on it to improve your
performance, or (B) devote your attention to things in which you do excel?
5. When making your choice of a filter cigarette, do you (A) act on the basis of what someone tells
you, or (B) think it through for yourself?

If you’re the kind of person who thinks for yourself, you use judgment in your choice of cigarettes, as in
everything else. Men and women who think for themselves usually smoke VICEROY. Their reason? Best in the world. They know
that only VICEROY has a thinking man’s filter and a smoking man’s taste.

*If you checked (A) on three out of the first four questions, and (B) on four out of the last
five, you really think for yourself!

© 1959, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows...

6. Would you prefer to play tennis with an opponent you know to be (A) not as good as you,
or (B) a slightly better player?
7. In deciding whether to see a movie, are you more influenced by (A) what a casual friend tells you
about it, or (B) what you know of the cast and story?
8. Do you take more notice of someone’s (A) good looks, or (B) good manners?
9. If you were a multimillionaire, would you rather have (A) everyone know it, or (B) only a very few
know it?

ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN’S TASTE!

At present, the Athletic team has already tangled with N.C. State and U.N.C. this year, but they lost to both.
This match provides an opportunity for them to save face in the “big league.” The regulars making the trip are
Dave Irving, Waller Taylor, Milton Gee, John Poindexter, Jim Allen, “Westy” Westervelt, Alec Porter, and newcomer Ubi de Frietas in
the 123 lb. class. Last week, the team walloped Emory 26-8 with Gee, Westervelt, Allen, and Porter winning by falls.
Monday, the Davidson grapplers meet Pfeiffer, whom they trounced last year 27-5. Coach Charlie Parker is pleased with this year's
team and had special words of praise for Milton Gee. The redhead from Greensboro is undefeated in five matches this
winter. “Westy” Westervelt, of course, attracted the acclaim of Coach Parker. “Westy” is a two-time conference champion and is currently
undefeated, though tied once. Jim Allen and Alec Porter also have been consistent winners and merited special recognition by Parker.
An eighteen-man Freshmen team including standouts Mike VerDoeren, Butch leDoyen, Jim Alexander, Buddy Brauch, and Tommy Brown is being groomed
to add necessary strength to next year’s varsity. Davidson is preparing for the Southern Conference Tournament on March 6-7. Although
the number one and two spots in the tournament will probably go to V.P.I. and West Virginia, Gee and Westervelt
are favored in their divisions.

THESE SEVEN FRESHMEN have been the mainstays in the Wildkitten’s basketball club this season. From left to right (bottom row)
Jerry Bussel, Tom Harris, and D.G. Martin. (top row) Allen Millar, Bob Moore, Ron Anderson, and Frank Weaver. (Photo by
Rhyne)

Davidson Seeks Tourney

Davidson’s tournament-hungry cagers will be gunning for an upset against Furman this Wednesday in their last home game of the
season. The faltering 'Cats, who play the Citadel at Charleston next Friday, must win at least one of their remaining
two games to land a place in the Southern Conference Tournament. The Furman game will be Senior Parents’ night and
also “Doc White Night." Davidson lettermen in the area will pay tribute to Doc, who has served as equipment manager
for the last quarter of a century.

VMI GAME

Wildcat tourney hopes were dealt a heavy blow last Monday night at Lexington when upstart VMI pulled from seven points
behind in the waning minutes of the second half to win 64-60. After being behind off and on throughout the
game, it appeared that the ’Cats were going to come out on top as they pulled to a 54-47 lead
late in the half. The VMI loss was sandwiched in between a 94-63 shellacking by VPI and an 84-75 overtime
victory over winless Washington and Lee.

STEWART'S SHOT

Eddie Stewart, a jumping-jack sub, came through with two baskets, one in the last second of the regulation game, to
tie the score against W&L in a non-conference tilt. The ‘Cats then poured in 18 points in the extra period
to win going away. Dave Hollingsworth was high man for Davidson with 28 points.

HOT FROSH

Coach Joe Hunt's hot freshmen have but two games remaining on their schedule. Both are preliminary contests with the Furman
and Citadel frosh squads. Several of the Wildkittens are slated for a lot of action next year. Smooth Jerry Bussel,
averaging 15 points a game, and John Harris, hitting at a 13.6 clip, rate as top prospects at guard. Allan
Millar and scrapping D.G. Martin are also averaging around 13 points a game at the forwards. Coach Scott also welcomes
the height of a pair of 6’6” centers, Ronnie Anderson and Bob Moore. Frank Weaver, at 6’2”, is a dependable
reserve at both guard and forward.
