Che Dauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1959

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

The Vocal Majority- And Actual Campus Opinion

The YMCA forum at which Mr. Thomas R. Waring, Editor of the Charleston News and Courier, defended separation of the
races confirmed what we have long suspected: that the vocal majority is by no means indicative of the actual majority
of student body sentiment. We also suspect that if an actual vote were taken the student body would reject the
integration of the College, but this is mere speculation. However, we can say definitely that the vote would not reflect
what student participation seemed to indicate: that the student body is almost unanimously in favor of integration.

The question immediately arises: why is one faction so vocal, the other so silent? There are several reasons as we
see it. Historically those who favor the status quo are less verbose and publicly adamant for their system. Those opposed
to racial mixing would be satisfied with less discussion of the problem and a continuation of the present situation. This
is one reason for the impression that Mr. Waring took back to Charleston with him.

Certainly there are those with sincere convictions on both sides of this question. There are, however, those who we feel
resort to waving the banner for a minority in order to gain personal recognition. This is not to say that
all those who favor a breaking down of color bars on all levels do so merely to further their own
ends, but there are some; and we do not limit this entirely to students. This, we felt, was responsible for
some of the vocal warfare waged on Mr. Waring.

Also, we have talked to those in favor of the present situation who felt it was to their advantage to
remain silent. Some felt that it was best to let the student from Johnson C. Smith have the offensive. In
doing so he was, to some who are undecided on their sentiments, displeasingly aggressive and did his cause more harm
than good. It would be difficult, at least, to try to evaluate the effect of his appearance.

Again we say the vocal majority demonstrated in the Y Forum is not indicative of the prevalent campus opinion. To
think so is to be misled in attempting to arrive at an answer to the problem.

Drinking! Ah, Cursed Reality . . .

Tuesday afternoon's meeting (see page one) confronted the faculty with a problem which, looking at both the practical aspect and
college principle, seems to be an insoluble one. The faculty is over the proverbial barrel: how shall it reconcile principle
and practice? Under the circumstances, it did the most feasible thing in reaffirming its stand, explicit as such in Section
Four of the Student Conduct regulations. It does not, however, answer the problem.

The only light on the horizon is the proposal submitted by Student Body President Green in conjunction with fraternity presidents
and campus leaders. The pledge substitution proposed by Green crosses a very fine line in comparison with the present pledge.
The students’ proposal implies greater confidence on the part of the college, for no “reminder” is contained in it. At
the same time the administration and faculty is relieved of the tedious position of admitting that there may be conduct
not in accord with the college drinking policy. There is really no basic change.

We think the most significant part of the proposal is the substitution of individual fraternity responsibility for collective responsibility. Who
can deal better with complaints and who should be punished more than the offending group? Again the question of student
responsibility comes up. This request, also, should not be denied. We are glad to see students make a concrete proposal.
To all those campus leaders taking part and especially to President Green should go the student’s tribute. Student opinion can
be used to great advantage, and we are happy to see this step.

The faculty has referred the proposal to committee for study. We'll be interested to see its fate. Who knows? A
workable solution may be in sight.

R.C.S.

Christmas Comes But Once A Year

Monday night the children from Barium Springs arrive to give us our annual injection of Christmas spirit. We guess it’s
a good way to start the season you know, with the kids and all. It sort of takes us away
from the self-centeredness that dominates most of our lives and, at least for a few brief hours, we think of
some others beside ourselves.

Most of us, perhaps by necessity since we are in an educational institution, are so wrapped up in our own
activities that we don’t have much time to give to such things. Oh, there are a few exceptions like the
group that makes a weekly trip to Gastonia to entertain the children in the cripple children’s hospital. But on a
whole we don’t do many things like that.

We guess the Barium Springs party is a good thing, not only because it gives the kids a good time,
but also because it eases our consciences for the other things we have neglected all semester long. It’s kind of
a pity, though, that the visit only comes once a year. But that’s the way most of us do things.

Merry Christmas.

J.H.

Attention WF:

The Westminster Fellowship is considering a proposal which can contribute materially to its future success. It has been suggested that
they hold programs which are of interest to the entire campus community in a more central location than the College
Church. The Union Ballroom has proved to be ideal for this sort of meeting. It helps to attract a larger
student participation, to have a meeting in a convenient location, and student participation is the aim of open meetings.

The Westminster group should decide to hold next week’s meeting in the Union. The meeting deserves a wide airing, one
which will be obtained only in such a central location.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ASSISTANT EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editor Jim Hamilton
Editorial Assistant Bob Livingston
Managing Editors Ervin Duggan, Bob Moore
Sports Editor B. Millner
News Editor Tom Colvin
Feature Editor Charles Rose
Ed Armfield, Dick Smith, Dave Gillis
Assignments Editor David Jordan
Copy Editor Dan Clemmer
Cartoonists Redding Starling
Advertising Manager Charlie Rewe
Circulation Mgr. Albert McClure, Jr.
Asst. Business Manager Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

THE HAWK'S NEST

Christmas Is Our Most Warmly Human Festival

By JACK TAYLOR

Say “Thanksgiving” or “Fourth of July” or “Easter” and nothing especial happens, but say “Christmas” and the heart glows, for
Christmas is more than just a holiday, a break in routine that is routine itself. Christmas is alive, as human
as humanity, as warmly paradoxical as life, composed of all the subtle nuances and strong contrasts that make up human
nature.

Christmas is the joy of a small lad buckling his new Roy Rogers double holsters on over his Buck Rogers
space suit; and the sadness of a small boy shivering from the cold that eats through thin walls and torn
sheets, crying himself to sleep because Santa can’t afford the warm jacket he asked for. Christmas is as loud as
the crowds of late shoppers scrambling among the gaudy tinsel and multi-colored glares in search of a gift for an
almost-forgotten cousin; as quiet as a prayer. It is as ludicrous as one thousand chipmunks singing the Hallelujah Chorus, as
meaningful as Midnight Services. It has the warmth of a blazing fire, the frivolity of eggnog, the coldness of a
“robber baron” computing mark-up profit, the seriousness of Christmas Seals.

Christmas is a child tearing the wrapping from the end of his present in an effort to discover what's inside;
it is a ragged Santa Claus standing beside a bucket of dimes, nickels and quarters which is covered with chicken
wire to discourage petty thievery; it is the town drunk dropping a dime in the bucket. Christmas is riding around
the better side of town to see the home decorations; it is carrying food and clothes to the shack on
the other side of the railroad ditch. Christmas is merriment and meditation, poverty and wealth, joy and sadness, selfish and
unselfish. It is Christ and Santa Claus. It is human.

STERLING COMMENTS: On “The Lynching” Of State's Rights

By PETER STERLING

We all know the facts: A Negro allegedly rapes a white woman, is jailed, is dragged from his cell, and
murdered. The

by Redding

The Big Squeeze...

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

Students Discuss Cuts, Gift Fund, Money Woes

Dear Editor:

Many words have been tossed back and forth lately on the cut question; I agree heartily with the Editors that
“Only a trial of the system will give the college this answer.”

HansfordEpes not charge them the same when loss of quality credits.” Earlier they deposit the checks? In his article, he
noted that “Piedmont doesn’t charge you when you deposit your dad’s check on your account. It doesn’t charge the student
store either. Why then should it charge us?”

Richardson

Dear Editor:

Every Christmas Davidson students try to compensate for a year of self-centeredness and apathy by contributing to the Gift Fund
Program which they vote to support.

Colonel Adams’ well-received speech in chapel,

Instead of charging the list price of books, couldn’t the student bookstore give the students a deal and cut out
a lot of their 40% (or thereabouts) profit on books? This would be a simple service for the students who
are ahead on quality points most of the advantages of an unlimited cut system,” which I believe I have demonstrated
is not completely true. The implication of his article is that he is attacking the extension of these privileges to
students who are behind on quality points, implying—though not stating—that he may approve at least partially of the present system
which does allow some measure of precarious freedom to superior students.

Little interest has been shown by the students. YMCA publicity for the drive has been handled poorly. The chart to
show contributions was not posted this week. Posters were few or non-existent.

Bobby Livingston

Yet his proposal with respect to loss of hour credits would almost completely deny even this degree of freedom to
better students. Oddly enough, Honors students would be especially denied cut privileges, since in this program the maximum class load
allowed is fifteen hours (including the six Honors hours). This means that the average Honors student would, by graduation, probably
have only six hours of credit which he could afford to lose. Perhaps I have misinterpreted his statement, but I
cannot reconcile these two points. I would appreciate—for my edification, and that of anyone else who may have felt as
I do—a clarification of his stand.

The Christmas Seal Drive, the Salvation Army, and Hattie’s Open House are undeniably worthy causes, but the Gift Fund program
has not had any overwhelming acceptance this year.

Hospital Head Writes Gratitude For ’59 Fund

Editor’s Note: Printed below are excerpts from a letter recently received by Col. William L. Adams from Mr. Marshall P.
Welles, Director of the Bangkok Christian Hospital. It was in response to Col. Adams’ letter announcing that the Hospital had
been chosen for the Davidson YMCA Christmas Gift Fund.

Dear Col. Adams,

I received your most wonderful and welcome cable two days ago... as soon as I got it, I began to
go to work to try and get some promotional material, and I am now sending it the soonest as I
can. Yesterday, we had a meeting of the Board of Directors of the hospital to plan for a Birthday Celebration
for the tenth anniversary since the hospital was founded and dedicated. I was very happy at that time to tell
them of your telegram and what it means. They are all very grateful to you, and to the Student Body
at Davidson.

I can’t help recalling what you wrote me many months ago, which was as follows: “I have been somewhat disappointed
in what my assorted church groups have done on my little project. They love to hear about Thep, talk about
Thep and even pray for Thep, but somehow they never get around to personally doing anything for Thep.” Evidently, you
were able to pierce the blank wall I have met on trying to interest people in the wonderful work done
in Thailand, as you wrote on another occasion. I can still hardly believe it is all true. It is so
thrilling.

Again, may I express my own personal thanks for this evidence of warmness in your heart for the people of
Thailand, and for their personal welfare, and especially for Thep. You have certainly gone the “extra mile.” May the Lord
richly bless you. If there is anything else I can do, please don’t hesitate to write.

Most sincerely yours,
Marshall P. Welles, M.D.

PEANUTS

I HEARD WHAT YOU WERE SAYING IN THAT LETTER! A FINE BROTHER YOU TURNED OUT TO BE! IF HE THINKS
YOU'VE BEEN BAD ALL YEAR, WHY SHOULD I SUFFER? LOOK, I WAS ONLY TRYING TO TELL SANTA CLAUS THAT I
DIDN'T THINK HE SHOULD PASS BY OUR HOUSE, AND NOT LEAVE ME ANY PRESENTS JUST BECAUSE OF YOU! DON'T LOOK
AT ME... I'M ONLY THE SECRETARY!
