Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1959

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

The Long, Hot Summer

For organized labor it might have been called the long, hot summer. For years the public had tolerated the excesses of organized labor, just as it had tolerated and then rebelled against the excesses of big business at the turn of the century. All of the threats and coercion that labor could muster were not enough to stop Congress from passing the toughened Griffin-Landrum Labor Act which President Eisenhower signed Monday. Just this week, court-appointed monitors asked a federal court to oust Teamster boss Jimmy Hoffa, charging that he had mishandled $675,000 in union funds. Hoffa “is the proverbial straw; and the public will no longer bear his weight. Surrounded by a battery of lawyers to fend off court action and harass the court-appointed monitors, Hoffa has continued to wave the Teamsters’ banners of power, the hot-cargo clause and the secondary boycott. He has discovered that he cannot scare off the American public as he has so done with union locals all over the country. There are not enough black limousines to carry his goon squads far enough to fill the nation with fear. To combat public disfavor Hoffa has a new scheme. He threatens to set up a political fund larger than the aggregate spent by both major political parties in 1958 to insure election of candidates sympathetic to his cause. Hoffa may find it more difficult than he thinks to elect Teamster puppets no matter how much money he spends. The McClellan Committee only recently closed hearings which uncovered for the public some of the rotten apples in the barrel of organized labor, apples which threaten to spoil honest labor organizations if not thrown out. On the state scene our spring visitor Boyd Payton, Carolinas Director of the Textile Workers Union, strayed from his self-appointed Christian missionary work and was sentenced to six to ten years for conspiring to blow up a power sub-station in Henderson's violent textile strike, thus setting back the southern labor movement for years. For organized labor it was a long, hot summer. And with the steel strike, the longest in the nation’s history, entering its ninth week, an Indian summer could be beginning. The steel industry seems determined to heed the demands of the President and the public and offer only a realistic, non-inflationary settlement which will set the pattern for further labor negotiations.

Mere Chance?

The Davidson College Cadet Brigade has again accomplished the highly improbable. The college, one out of twenty-seven represented at Fort Bragg, and having the small contingent of seventy cadets out of a total of more than fourteen hundred, was named as that college turning out the best product at camp. Even more outstanding is the fact that one of the meager seventy was named the “Best Cadet” of the 1443. One year of these top ratings could be written off as mere chance, but this is the second straight year that Davidson has walked off with the honors. This sort of thing could become a habit. It is evident that the ROTC department and the Cadet Brigade are collectively one of the most productive and effective organizations on the campus. And, certainly speaking in a non-derogatory sense, it is easily the most “gung-ho” outfit that the campus has seen in a long while. It is obvious that enthusiasm breeds success, and the converse is true. The Brigade is one of the few in the country that is not ridiculed on its own campus and for this concession it turns out a superior product. Perhaps a little more honest enthusiasm and a little less do-nothing ridicule would result in a better extra-curricular program for all concerned.

R.C.S.

Peace On Earth

Chairman Khrushchev has come to see us. Some are free in their praise of the visit, but many are outspoken in their disapproval, and many more shudder silently. Here in our Ivory Tower at Davidson, we do not feel competent to predict the outcome of this venture. We doubt if any revolutionary decision will be reached during his stay, but perhaps an increased understanding between countries will result. There is one thing that we do hope for, however, and that is that the American people will treat him with courtesy. The fact that he was invited to this country by our President makes him a guest, and he should be treated as such, even though he may not merit it in light of past actions or professed intentions. Any discourteous action or unruly demonstration could only injure relations and would probably be a boost to Russian propaganda. As we said, we don’t know what the outcome of all this will be. For the sake of international relations, however, we're glad Mr. K is not coming to Davidson to speak in chapel.

J.H.

Over The Top

President Martin’s announcement in chapel Thursday that the Dana Challenge goal has been met and surpassed, although accepted with seeming indifference by the student body, is welcome news and an encouraging testimony of the faith that many have in the future of Davidson College. Our minds are preoccupied, perhaps, with Rush Week, the Catawba game, and the grind. Perhaps the reaction was subdued because of the lack of the element of surprise, so great was our confidence that our many friends would rise to meet the challenge. Nonetheless we realize the magnitude of the glad tidings. The entire student body owes, and indeed feels, a great obligation to Mr. Dana and all of those who enabled Davidson to add to the physical plant both science laboratories and a dormitory. We feel an obligation to use these facilities wisely. With appreciation and anticipation we await the October visit of Mr. Dana, our friend and benefactor.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jim Hamilton
ASSISTANT EDITOR Bob Livingston
BUSINESS MANAGER Ervin Duggan
Associate Editor Bob Moore
Editorial Assistant B. Millner
Managing Editors Tom Colvin, Charles Rose
Sports Editor Ed Armfield
News Editor Dick Smith
Feature Editor Dave Gillis
Assignments Editor David Jordan
Copy Editor Dan Clemmer
Cartoonists Redding, Starling
Advertising Manager Charlie Rowe
Circulation Mgr. Albert McClure, Jr.
Ass’t. Business Manager Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Editor’s note: Vance Packard’s number-one best seller, THE STATUS SEEKERS, has been selected by the Book-of-the-Semester Committee as the fall choice for examination and discussion by students and faculty members at Davidson. Below appear the reactions of Davidson professors Ernest Patterson and John Setterfield to THE STATUS SEEKERS.

Dr. Patterson

The analysis of class and status in the United States was long shunned by social scientists in this country. This was probably due to timidity—an occupational disease escaped by few—about questioning the fundamental tenet of an unstratified, classless society, and to a desire to avoid being placed with the Marxists who put class and the class struggle at the center of their theory. Beginning the latter 1920's and early 1930's, there has been an increasing number of studies and analyses of class, caste and status in the United States. Vance Packard’s, THE STATUS SEEKERS, is the latest and best known addition to these studies. Mr. Packard has done a competent job of analyzing and synthesizing the vast amount of the literature of sociology and social psychology dealing with the subject of status in order to secure a respectable (very essential in a status conscious society) underpinning for his argument and thesis. His argument is presented with a rich variety of anecdotes, instances, and quotes from interviews that makes for pleasant and smooth reading, and which tends, unfortunately, in my opinion, to mitigate against the disturbing...

DAVIDSON'S SPRING VISITOR

By CHARLES ROSE Davidson Feature Editor

At the end of last semester a man of plain appearance addressed an indifferent Davidson student body in chapel. He told of his education at the college of hard knocks and left little or no impression with those who listened. That man was Boyd E. Payton, Carolinas Director of the Textile Workers Union of America, member of a debate team involving a Management-Labor dispute. In Henderson, a town some fifty miles north of Raleigh, there was a cotton mill strike which had begun last winter. Workers on strike at the Harriet-Henderson Cotton Mill were members of the Textile Workers Union of America and Boyd Payton was their boss.

AT DAVIDSON

At Davidson, Payton was an unnoticed person. Some called him ignorant and others were less kind. In Henderson, Boyd Payton was a leader, a man who made sense when he lifted his voice at Union meetings. He told the members how they could have a better life, and he seemed to have the money to make his words stick. But Payton with his Textile Workers Union was fighting a losing battle and the warming summer weather seemed to melt the toughness from a strike that had called hundreds of National Guardsmen to quell the violence. The strike itself began when the president of the cotton mills, John D. Cooper, refused to renew his contract with the Textile Workers Union of America. Mr. Cooper refused to sign the new contract for many reasons, but one was that workers were taking advantage of their position as union members. Their work had become poor, and they were taking far too...much sick leave. The hot June sun was overhead and fixed bayonets and picket signs were common sights in Henderson, and the State of North Carolina was spending school improvement money to pay the National Guard. Violence in Henderson ended. Local police had long before arrested all offenders that could be found. Rocks and bullets no longer flew; they were replaced by a judge’s stiff road sentence and the moans of the guilty. The often slow wheels of justice continued to turn, and soon the State of North Carolina arrested, found guilty, and sentenced eight men to prison for conspiring to destroy property of the Harriet-Henderson Cotton Mills. Boyd E. Payton, a name seen all summer in the newspapers, headed this list.

MOB SCENE

I was in Henderson working for the Raleigh News and Observer the day Payton’s date for trial was extended. Highly polished Union lawyers were all around him as I waited on the Court House steps with a News and Observer reporter to take his picture as he departed. The front lawn was crowded with high-spirited strikers eager to show allegiance to their leader. As Payton came out of the door I took a picture and started to take another. He jerked his hat from his head, brushed it in my face, and with his fist back for a hard right said, “Take one more and I'll cram this down your damn throat.” Angry strikers pressed around and a verbal battle began. Later on Payton apologized and someone kindly remarked to me, “You wouldn’t have had a chance.” Payton was looking for a fight that afternoon. It was a good way to show people he still had plenty of toughness left, but some of it must have been anger because he knew he was slowly losing a strong foothold in the South. His appealed case now stands before the State Supreme Court and will be reopened sometime this fall.

UNION STRATEGY

On the first of August, a man from the TWUA came to the News and Observer to get a picture of a Henderson policeman. He was going to make a slide out of the picture and add it to others he already had. Then take his slide show up north to show at union meetings. A neatly typed caption for the picture he wanted read, “This cop was sternly punished for not being tough enough on the Henderson strikers.” Northern union members are paying for the food that keeps the strikers in Henderson alive. The Textile Workers Union of America has had a hard time in Henderson. It will continue to do so, there and elsewhere, until management and labor become more willing to understand each other's problems.

PROFESSORS AIR THEIR VIEWS ON “THE STATUS SEEKERS”

A musician may not be the proper critic of an essay on class; to him, formal evening wear, a symbol of the upper stratum, is a fatigue uniform. In Vance Packard's THE STATUS SEEKERS, the measuring devices for determining class include amount of income, place of residence, church affiliation, family history, and membership in exclusive organizations. Obviously, the gauges of worth that would occur to the unimaginative, they lead to the maxim most communities follow but never state: the way to be outstanding in a mediocre group is to be more mediocre than anybody else. Closing each chapter, Mr. Packard paraphrases the Bill of Rights, urging that everyone with ability be given an opportunity to move “upward.” Liberal enough, but who can declare the direction traveled as one approaches the “right” club? By his advocacy of “rising” to large homes and air conditioning, Mr. Packard shows pretty clearly that he buys society’s values. His failure and lack of insight as a social critic lie therein. Surely Homer or Bach or Braque is a better standard for the world than any product of General Motors, Charlie Wilson included. Creditably, Mr. Packard tears some masks off the priestly hierarchy of this country’s favorite cult, the American Medical Association. These exposures will be endorsed by those who believe that Jesse James is not dead, but that he has traded his horse and gun for a Continental and a caduceus. But in effect, THE STATUS SEEKERS says, “Let’s keep society flexible so you, too, can become rich and afford servants, a psychiatrist, Countess Mara ties, and subscriptions to all the Luce publications.” Upheavals may be necessary to change a culture's value patterns; to change Mr. Packard's, one might suggest the Book of James, for the meaning of accomplishment, and the books of Veblen, for the meaning of class structure.

LOOK OVER THE SEA

Arriving at Davidson from the frantic bustle of New York was like slipping into a quiet backwater of my native Thames. The impressive college buildings, fitting into the graceful parkland around them, the trees standing rigid under the hot sun, even the cars idling around the campus roads, seemed to indicate a sedate and almost languid pace of life. This illusion was shattered when I went into the Union cafeteria, walked down a line with a tray, and found myself the possessor of a large meal within 25 seconds. Later in the day, I saw some not-so-languid football players at practice. I felt safer on my side of the fence. Soon I came to realize that underneath this casual and friendly Davidson exterior there was a quiet efficiency which kept the college humming. When the freshmen arrived, a fleet of group advisers and counselors swept in to herd them around their first day of orientation. During the first few days, a rash of forms and lists appeared, to be checked, filled in, and passed on to the authorities who doubtless have a proper place for such information. Now that Orientation week is over and rush week is reaching its climax, I’m beginning to think that Davidson, given a few neon lights and skyscrapers, could well rival New York in its atmosphere of frenzied activity. Beanie-clad rushees stream from house to house, and the brothers spend long hours and sleepless nights in trying to size them up. An air of expectancy holds the college, and rushees and rushers alike seem to be looking forward to the end of the week. Taken as a whole, Davidson gives an impression of quiet purposefulness which is sometimes belied by the friendly informality of students and faculty. To a newcomer, it is both welcoming and stimulating.

TOIL AND TROUBLE

Mr. K's Visit Is Problem-Packed

The foreign policy of John Foster Dulles was completely reversed last week within a few months of his death as Nikita S. Khrushchev and family arrived in Washington for a fifteen-day tour of the country, coupled with top-level talks with President Eisenhower. Uncertainty surrounds the event. No one seems to be fully aware of what is happening, and no one is guessing at the results. Some incident may occur, and the entire complex of the situation may be changed. Khrushchev comes with a position of power to talk from. The Soviet flag on the moon gives him extra bargaining power. If, as some speculate, the Soviets manage to get a man into space during the next fifteen days, he will have exceptional powers. Then again, anything else could happen. On the domestic front, many conservatives—and this includes a good number of Southerners—decry the visit of the Soviet Premier. They—the idealists in politics—consider it immoral to have anything to do with the Red Butcher of Hungary. Most Americans, however, seem to feel that Ike knows what he is doing, and a number feel that certainly no harm can come from the exchange of visits, and some good could result. What might be the positive benefits? There is speculation that some sort of peace pact may come out of the talks. That would be fine; but of course, Stalin and Hitler also signed a peace pact. To have a workable peace, we must have guarantees. Honor with the Russians means loyalty to Marxism. Some, including Vice President Nixon and Averill Harriman, feel that Mr. Khrushchev is badly informed about the United States. These gentlemen have both been to Russia, and have talked to Mr. Khrushchev; I am unable to contradict them directly. It is rather odd, however, for the chief of state of so great a country to be so ignorant about his greatest enemy. The tour of the U.S. planned for Khrushchev is not altogether designed to clear up misunderstandings. He will visit the best examples of things, but he will not get to see many of the typical things. This is especially true in the case of agriculture. In any event, we are about to give Presidential diplomacy another chance. Let us hope that some solution can be reached. So far, we're batting about .000.