Davidson To Get Another By LEONARD RICHARDSON

Over ten thousand post- Davidsonian Staff Writer

Indications are that Davidson College will be asked again next year to participate in the College Quiz Bowl. A letter received by President Martin from John Cleary, Producer of the G. E. College Bowl, seemed to indicate that Davidson will be invited to compete again on the television contest.

“I feel that this letter is quite a tribute to the college,” commented President Martin when asked his reaction to the letter. “I don’t think the board would have sent it unless there were some real chance they would invite us next year.

STRONG STATEMENT

“This is a strong statement for the man who really selects the colleges. I believe that last statement in the letter means more than the general things in the first paragraph. Mr. Cleary’s remarks are highly favorable to the college and particularly to our team.”

Q. Would the college agree to compete again if asked next year?

A. I think we would, and with enthusiasm. I know of no activity that has brought more favorable national publicity to the college. I think this spring participation was stimulating not only to our faculty and student body but to those of us on the sidelines.

FAVORABLE PUBLICITY

Q. Did the program last month provide the expected national publicity for Davidson College?

A. There have been many favorable comments both to myself and to others connected with the telecast. Cards were sent to alumni and friends of the college and we feel that there was a large audience watching. Television Station WBTV ran a series of announcements a few days before and co-operated greatly by publicizing the program. Of course, we have not had a sudden flood of applications from all over the country. I feel that the impact of the program will be getting other boys interested in coming to Davidson.

WELL-DONE PROGRAM

Q. In view of your relations with the program, what do you think of it?

A. Although the time limit imposes restrictions and the questions often do not test the panelists’ reasoning abilities, I feel that the “College Bowl” is an exceptionally well-done program, one which will probably last for a good while. This letter seems to indicate that we will be asked back. I don’t consider it a promise, but I think this letter is an indication that we will be considered next year. I am sure alumni and faculty are interested in us being given another try and I think the students are also, from what I hear.

Q. What are the prospects for a team next year?

A. I'm sure we will be ready. We could “recruit” a very good team.

SPEED UP PREPARATION

Q. Would you make any changes in the way the team went about preparing for the quiz?

A. No. I don’t think we would change the basic way in which they prepared. However, we could speed up the process of preparation next year since we know a little more about it.

COLLEGE BOWL QUIZ

Dear Dr. Martin:

I want to thank you for the wonderful team you sent to Minneapolis to represent Davidson on the G. E. COLLEGE BOWL. Believe me, the score is no indication of the impression these boys made on the people at the University and ourselves. I suppose Dr. Marrotte told you how well the boys did in the warm-up, and actually we all felt we would be in North Carolina the following week. They were real gentlemen and true sportsmen. I hope that next year we may have the opportunity of entertaining a team from Davidson again. Thank you for everything.

Sincerely,
G. E. COLLEGE BOWL
John Cleary
Producer

VOL. XLVI

Business Office Issues Report On Court Costs

Editor’s note: The following is a statement released by the business office in answer to last week's editorial concerning the increase in the fraternity housing fee.

The editorial in the May 1st issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN about the Fraternity Housing Fee needs some clarification as to facts and inferences. The fees charged to fraternity members for the first and second semesters of the current year were based on the estimated costs of the court, pending the availability of final cost figures. These fees were purposely made as low as possible so that students would not be overcharged. There is no question of profits for the college in connection with this or any other project because the charter of the college prohibits the making of a profit, and all income received from any source is used for the benefit of the educational program.

It is, however, required that the endowment funds of the college be invested to produce a reasonable return and to assure the safety of the investment. The propriety of investing endowment funds in the fraternity court project was questioned by a number of those concerned with the problem, and it was only after assurance of the security of the investment, as well as the usefulness of the project to the college community, that the use of endowment funds was approved. The income from this source, like all other endowment income, is used to meet the operating expenses of the college. If this income were not available this expense would have to be met from other sources, and a major part from increases in tuition. An important aspect of the relation between the college and the student body is the fact that endowment income and gifts provide about 50% of the educational costs of Davidson students.

The construction of Patterson Fraternity Court was begun in the summer of 1957 after more than two years of study, planning, and discussion by students, faculty, trustees, and alumni. Through articles, editorials, and letters in THE DAVIDSONIAN, through fraternity meetings, open forums, and many other methods, information about the program was made available to all interested parties, and consideration was given to the views expressed by those concerned.

BOYD PAYTON, Southern Director of the Textile Workers Union of America, speaks for labor in chapel Thursday. E. S. Dillard (right), President of the Old Dominion Box Company, spoke in favor of management. Business Economics Association members, Bill Patton and John Renfro introduced the speakers.

FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1959

Summer Session Begins On June 5

This year’s Davidson summer school session will officially begin on the afternoon of June 5 for the first session and July 24 for the second. Registration for the first session will be on the morning of June 5 and July 23 is set for the second.

Male students will be housed in Belk. Coeds will be in the Guest House. Students planning to attend the first session may sign up for their rooms now. Those attending the second session will receive assignments when they arrive.

The normal load for the summer session is six hours per term for non-laboratory courses and eight hours for the laboratory course. If class schedules permit a student to carry more than a normal load, permission may be granted. It will be subject to the approval of the instructors involved.

Normal expenses for a boarding science-course student will be $255.00 for one semester. The cost for the non-science course will be $205.00 for one semester.

A recreational program will be provided which will include motion pictures and dances.

Each fraternity president or social chairman interviewed released the plans of his organization for the Spring semester function.

Saturday night Alpha Tau Omega celebrates the annual White Tea Rose Banquet and Ball. The banquet will be served at 7:30 in Dimizzio’s Restaurant of Salisbury. A combo is scheduled for the Ball which lasts until 12:00.

MILTON GEE

Gee Will Preside Over 1960 Court

Milton Gee, rising senior from Greensboro, North Carolina has been selected by the Student Council to head next year’s eight-member Court of Control. Four seniors, two juniors, and two sophomores will comprise the Court.

Seniors are Jim Hodges, Dave McCullough, and Newt Quantz. Juniors are Claude Finney and Bill Shinn. Sophomores are Cecil Holcomb and Bruce Usher.

Concerning the Court of Control, last year's Council has made the following suggestions:

1. Shorten the period of jurisdiction to allow more intensive and concentrated freshman term, all classes will meet.Meet Monday class control. 6:00 through 12:00 at the Red Fez Club. An after-function party will feature a combo, the Tam’s. Meet six days each week, except during the holiday period. Non-laboratory courses meet Monday through Friday during the first term, except for Saturday, July 11, when all classes.

Three PI Blue and what we are trying to attain. Having had some experience, we could achieve results a lot more simply. We would probably have more practice sessions between our team and outside panels. That might be one improvement in the preparation, but in the long run, it is difficult to say whether we would change our methods or not.

Q. What is your opinion of the College Bowl Quiz?
A. Most schools which participate are well-prepared and the choice of questions is generally good. I would say that in about three out of five contests, it's luck which causes the team to win or lose.

NETWORK SHOW
The “College Bowl” is a network educational feature appearing on Sunday afternoons. Competing four-man teams selected from two outstanding American colleges or universities are quizzed each week on the program. The winning panel receives a $1500 Scholarship Fund for their college plus an opportunity to meet challenging teams on their home campus until they are defeated. On April 19, Davidson competed against the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis. The Davidson team made up of team captain Bobby Livingston, Frank Nye, Laurens Walker, and Charles Chastain and alternate Monty Bracey were accompanied by their coach, Dr. Paul Marrotte of the Department of History. The Davidson team was defeated by the University of Minnesota by a score of 155-90.

Honor System Editorial (See Page 2)
NUMBER 27

Seven Party Tomorrow; Later Dates
Spring fraternity functions highlight this weekend’s social activities. Seven of the twelve campus fraternities offer parties for tomorrow or tomorrow night. Three groups announced plans for next Saturday, May 16, and two held their functions on April 11. Sherry Robinson was crowned the new White Rose Queen during the banquet. Afterward, a Mardi Gras costume party was held with dance music by the McEntire combo. Sigma Phi Epsilon included its Awards Banquet in the Spring Frolics festivities. President Dan Clemmer recited in verse the recipients of fraternity awards: John St. Clair, Outstanding Senior and President's Cup; Melvin McKenzie, Best Pledge; Jim Williams, Big Man on Campus; Russell Pease, Fred J. Walsh Memorial Church Key; Bill Etchison, athletic trophy; Bruce Brooks, senior scholarship; Jerry Gattia, U. S. Dubach Scroll for scholastic improvement; and Henry McFadyen, the Clifford B. Scott Memorial Key for the chapter's highest scholastic average.

Students For Achievements
Eleven major awards were presented on Awards Day, held in chapel last Tuesday. In addition, Dr. G. L. Abernethy announced several graduate fellowships and scholarships awarded to graduating seniors. Awards Day is held each year to recognize outstanding students in various fields. For achievement in Bible study, Graham Allison, a pre-ministerial student from Charlotte, Columbia, S. C. was awarded the Mrs. P. J. Hay Medal, given to the freshman with the highest grade in Bible. The William Banks Bible Medal went to Walter O’Briant, the senior who has completed four years of Bible with the highest distinction. O'Briant, also a ministerial candidate, is from Concord, N. C. The Class of 1922 Greek prize went to Doug Stewart, a senior from Charlotte, for showing the greatest ability and promise in the study of Greek. These scholarships went to the following rising seniors: the D. H. Howard, Jr., Memorial Chemistry Scholarship, awarded to the Chemistry student of outstanding service, to A. H. Bracy II, from South Hill, Va.; the A. K. Phifer Scholarship, for a distinguished record in Economics, to R. L. Avinger, Jr., of Bivefield, W. Va. Charles D. Bonson, of Orlando, Florida, received the C. T. Stowe Scholarship, given to a promising athlete of more than average scholastic ability. The Tommy Peters Award is given to the athlete embodying the finest ideals and spirit in the tradition of the late Lt. Tommy Peters who was killed in World War II. It went this year to David M. Hollingsworth of Charlotte. The Physics Department honored J. Arthur Spencer, a rising sophomore, as the outstanding physics student. Larry K. Meyer, a rising senior, was awarded the Jervey Spanish Prize. All the awards and scholarships were presented by faculty members of the departments concerned.

Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary classical fraternity, completed Monday night its elections for next year. Officers of Eta Sigma Phi also serve as the governing body of the Classical Club. Elected were president, Eb LeMaster; vice-president and program chairman, Henry Shue; secretary, Allan Gravely; treasurer, Bert Keller; and Pylons, Henry Otten.

In support of labor unions, Payton presented the workers’ reasons for forming such organizations as: increased recognition in his community, as well as increased wages, holiday pay, insurance, etc. “The unions,” inserted Payton, “aside from advocating higher wages, strive to educate their members in how to use this increase wisely.” Payton contended that “management in many cases is more concerned about the products than the welfare of the worker. Granted, management has certain rights; but labor has some rights, too. And it is with these points in mind that the worker will fight for his union as sincerely and earnestly as a dedicated Christian for his beliefs.”

Based on these considerations the following plans were adopted and were approved by representatives of the fraternities, faculty, and trustees.
1. Individual, rather than the less-expensive “duplex units,” were to be constructed, using the endowment funds of the College, there being no other funds available.
2. The rent was to be charged through a Fraternity Housing Fee, payable by every member of a fraternity at Davidson. The amount of the fee was to be determined in a manner which would provide not less than 4½% and not more than 5% net.

In the past, these men have been figured into the count as actual donors.