PAGE FOUR

Shown against the background of the Dana Science Building are some of the second-hand cabinets which will be used in the building. They were obtained at a considerable saving to the College. Mr. Meetz has indicated that the cabinets will be reconditioned before being placed in the building.

XII Army Dignitaries Inspect Tuesday Drill

Dignitaries from the XII Army Corps will conduct the annual fall inspection of the Davidson ROTC Department next Tuesday. Col. C. A. Lichirie, Deputy for the ROTC of the XII Corps, and Lt. Col. E. R. Fenstermacher, Assistant Deputy, will arrive late Monday evening from headquarters in Atlanta, Ga. Major Gen. Frank S. Bowen, commanding general of the XII Army Corps, will conduct the records and facilities inspection of the local department following the briefing. A luncheon will follow.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open Houses

The houses of the following faculty members will be open to students Sunday night, December 6, after Vespers:
Abernethy
Hummel
Workman
Woods

A Civil Defense practice siren will sound sometime Monday for a five-minute period, Mr. Oscar Gant, coordinator for this area, announced today to prevent community alarm. The siren is only to familiarize the public with a Civil Defense warning and it is not to be heeded. The time of the siren is not being made public. At a later, undetermined time, an all-clear signal will be sounded.

Fall Turkey Shoot Attracts Nimrods

Approximately 160 adults and 125 children attended the annual ROTC Turkey Shoot on November 24, the largest crowd ever. The annual event is sponsored by Scabbard and Blade military fraternity for town residents. Prizes were donated by local merchants and consisted of merchandise and services. Winners received turkeys. Others won prizes ranging from a 5-lb. fruit cake to a new pair of heels for shoes. Classes of entry were divided.

Vespers Features Professor McDill

The Vespers speaker for this Sunday is the Reverend Thomas H. McDill, Jr. Mr. McDill, a graduate of Princeton Theological Seminary, is at present Professor of Counseling at Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Georgia. In the past, Mr. McDill has had pastorates in Arkansas and Georgia and has taught at McCormick Theological Seminary in Chicago, Ill. After Vesper services, Mr. McDill will meet with all interested students in the Student Lounge to discuss church-related vocations.

Dinner, Discussion Features Grandell

A "Finnish Night" dinner and discussion, first of a proposed series of international banquets, will be held next Wednesday night at 7:00 p.m. in the Green Room of the College Union. The chairman of the Union’s Roundtable Committee, Mike Laughlin, announced that the Union will sponsor this dinner, held in honor of Bjorn Grandell, exchange student from Finland. Grandell himself will lead a discussion on Finnish life and culture following the dinner.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1959

Christian Hospital: Post In Midst Of Buddhism
By LEE KIRBY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Operating room equipment from Germany, financed by an American college, used by a missionary doctor, supervised by a non-denominational Christian church in a Buddhist nation: this is the great amalgam of tradition and progress that is Thailand and the Bangkok Christian Hospital.

The Hospital had its beginning in 1949 with Presbyterian missionaries in Thailand’s capital city. After many years of service, it was formally turned over to the new Church of Christ in Thailand. Dr. Marshall Welles, a Presbyterian Medical Missionary, continues as director. A new clinic was built in 1957 which greatly increased the capacity of the hospital. The Davidson Student Body has voted to direct its 1959 Gift Fund to the purchase of an operating table and lamp to furnish a new surgery room.

NEAR TEMPLE

The hospital is located equidistant from a Buddhist Temple and the United States Information Service, pointing up the contrasts of Thailand’s largest city of one million. In the center of the city is the sprawling Grand Palace which houses the famous Emerald Buddha and the Thai monarchy. The government has been a constitutional monarchy since a bloodless coup d'état in 1932. The present King, educated in Switzerland, nominally shares administration with a Premier and a cabinet of 27 ministers.

“I am not only moderator but pastor to thirty-four churches,” Rev. Pantupong commented. “Much of the church leadership must come from the laity, since we do not have nearly enough ministers in our country.” Commenting on his predominantly Buddhist homeland, he said: “The Buddhists are friendly and are good neighbors. They do not openly oppose Christianity but they are displeased when their children become Christians. Each child is expected to follow the footsteps of his forefathers out of respect.”

“Both the Buddhists and Christians are opposed to Communism because it is anti-religious,” Pantupong commented. The four Islamic provinces are also anti-Communist.

NATIONAL PROBLEMS

Another big problem is illiteracy. There is only one institution of higher learning in the nation which is incapable of accommodating the educational needs of the population. There are two large mission schools in Bangkok. As in all Eastern countries, education is a significant challenge.nations, disease and poverty are major concerns. Leprosy is widely spread and there are many leper villages. Mission hospitals such as Bangkok Christian Hospital can be found throughout the nation.

KING OF SIAM

Mrs. Kneedler’s great-grandfather, Dr. Dan Bradley, was the first medical missionary to Bangkok in 1835. He was personal physician and personal friend to the King made famous in The King and I, Rodgers and Hammerstein musical. In addition, he was responsible for introducing modern medical practices such as smallpox vaccination into Siam.

The Kneedlers have followed their ancestor’s example by serving as medical missionaries to Chiangmai, Thailand's second largest city, from 1930 to 1941 and for two years after the Second World War.

“The Thai are a free and happy people,” Mrs. Kneedler commented. “They have accepted Americans because we came to them with medicine and education as missionaries rather than on gun-boats.”

This aid to the Bangkok Christian Hospital will surely be appreciated as an enduring part of this long tradition of friendship.

Although the nation is largely Buddhist, there are many Christians. The monarch is required to be a Buddhist but he is also the acknowledged supporter of all faiths, insuring religious freedom. Six Protestant groups have consolidated to form the non-denominational Protestant Church of Christ in Thailand which now operates the Bangkok Christian Hospital. The Church is organized into twelve presbyteries and 124 churches.

THAI VISITOR

The Rev. Duang Pantupong, Moderator of the First Presbytery, and Rev. Boon Yune Natanetient, pastor of a large church, recently visited Davidson.

Mrs. Pantupong is the principal of the Princess Dara Academy for Girls which teaches all twelve basic grades to girls and boys from 12 to 15 years old. There is a system of state schools to combat the 60% illiteracy rate. The church schools are among the best.

Mrs. Kneedler commented, “Our exchange students haven't been appreciated enough. We have not benefitted enough from them, nor have they served much of a place on campus. We hope that this type of program will stimulate further interest from both sides.”

The inspecting officers will confer with Col. Adams Tuesday morning and at 10:15 will be briefed by the cadet Brigade Commander, First Col. Robert D. Croom, Deputy Commander Col. Fred Lane, Executive Officer Lt. Col. Tom Ridenhour, and the Brigade staff. Each member of the staff, Lt. Colonels Gus Burgdorf (S-1), Dabney Stuart (S-2), Joe Wearn (S-3), and Bob Avinger (S-4), will summarize his duties and those of his section. Sgt. Major Jerry Cole will assist with visual aids.

Tuesday afternoon the brigade will form on the lower drill field for a routine inspection, after which they will move up to the football stadium for the parade and ceremonies. Col. Lichirie will troop the line, accompanied by Cadet First Col. Croom. Lichirie will return to the reviewing stand and the troops will pass in review. Following the review, Col. Lichirie will conduct a brief critique at the ROTC headquarters. Also on his schedule are a conference with President Martin and inspection of MS-I and II classes. He will leave for Wake Forest late in the afternoon.

Professor E. F. Patterson is arranging the informal interviews with Dean Metcalf. Particular topics which he will discuss with students include: the scholarship program, career opportunities, and the study program for graduate degrees at the University of Chicago. These interviews are not limited to business or economics majors. Professor Patterson stressed that all students expecting to receive a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent are eligible to apply for admission to the school.

The dinner next Wednesday night will be a typical Finnish meal, in an informal atmosphere. After dinner, Grandell will lead a coffee-discussion group. Exchange students and certain faculty members have already been invited. Said Chairman Laughlin: “Attendance is limited to 30 people.”

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

FROM OUR FLOOR FOR MEN AND UNIVERSITY SHOP

MUST ITEMS FOR YOURSELF

Corduroy Suits with Vest $39.95
Madras Sport Coats $35.00
Corduroy Sport Coats $23.95
Madras Sport Shirts $9.95

USE YOUR CHARGE ACCOUNT