Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1959
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

In The Generous Dana Gift, A Challenge To Students

In announcing a $200,000 gift towards the construction of the John Rood Cunningham Fine Arts Building, Mr. Charles A. Dana offered a splendid restatement of confidence in Davidson College and the job that it is doing. He must be well pleased with his first investment in us. He is not known for poor investments. It is important that a man of his acumen is so well satisfied with us and that he wants to help us by providing the best possible facilities. He has the perspective of an outsider who is exceptionally well informed in the work being done by many colleges—and it is in this objective perspective that he recognizes us as an outstanding institution.

His gift, along with the support which friends of the College will surely offer, will result in more than a building. It is the hope of both the donor and the Administration that it will establish a whole new program. The Fine Arts Building is not being constructed only for those with ability in the arts. It is to be a meeting place for the whole campus and will serve a valuable function in furthering our cultural education. The arts have fallen from the position of prominence they once occupied, largely because of the inadequate facilities offered by Shearer Hall. The challenge to raise additional funds is only part of the challenge offered by Mr. Dana’s gift. There is also a challenge to each student to become acquainted with and support the program it encompasses.

Not Just Another Dance

It appears that, in the words of President McKeithen, we're going to have a “bigger and better Homecoming,” after all. Traditionally, such boasts are met with raised eyebrows and dubious winks, but the 59-’60 IFC looks as if it’s dead serious. We are not sure exactly where the basic credit should go, whether to the editorial columns of the DAVIDSONIAN or to unspoken ideas of the IFC, but one thing is certain: we have a group this year willing to listen to suggestions and to convert them into a dynamic policy.

We would like to see a real university atmosphere about a Homecoming weekend. All of the innovations point in that direction. We particularly like the emphasis on fraternity exhibits, for nothing adds more to weekend pageantry than well-thought-out and planned decorations. This sort of thing will, we hope, stimulate a real interest on the part of the fraternities, which is obviously the best place to start in making the weekend more than just another dance.

The Queen competition is likely to produce the same result. This is another interest-raising factor, and we hope that it will be accompanied by a good section of the Quips and Cranks on the contest and the Queen herself. We think they haven’t missed a trick. We can't really predict the effect on the student body and Homecoming as a whole, but commendation is certainly due McKeithen and the Council for their confidence in venturing into a new field. We'd like to see such action on the part of other campus organizations.

Pressures Force Student Silence

We were glad to receive the letters to the Editor that came across our desk this week. We hope that the members of the student body will continue to submit their opinions, for it is a privilege and an obligation. A couple of letters we got will not be printed, however, because they were unsigned. One letter was especially well done, but the writer refused to sign his name because of what he called “professorial pressures”. We hope that his fears are without foundation. Davidson College enjoys great freedom of both press and speech which should extend not only to the staff of the DAVIDSONIAN but to every member of the college community. Our positions entitle us to no special immunity, yet we have suffered no direct censure from the Hill. We feel you, also, can express your views freely. It is certainly our hope that no professor would in any way penalize a student for expressing ideas contrary to those he holds. When a professor pressures a student into withholding his ideas or beliefs he has not impressed in any real way his views on the student. He has merely stifled the principle of freedom that he would outwardly extol, but actually obstruct.

Capitalism On The March

We don’t remember “the good old days” that our elders love to talk about. Those of us, however, who are old and graying seniors do remember those happy days in the Student Union Snack Bar when coffee was a nickel a cup and for the special bargain price of only twelve cents one could purchase a cup and two healthy doughnuts. But, alas, those days are gone forever. Now, for a cup and two reasonable facsimiles of a doughnut, one has to fork over twenty cents. The perpetual late riser finds himself shelling out a dollar and twenty cents a week, (excluding Sundays when nobody gets up for breakfast anyway) for his morning’s nourishment. One may condemn the late riser for lack of will power to pull himself out of bed earlier, but after all, this is one of the joys that a battle-worn senior may permit himself. No hope appears in sight, however, for the greedy capitalists that set such policies are still gleefully happy over their increased source of revenue. We do wish, though, that Mr. Dana could find a few more thousands lying around loose in all his rusty millions to give the Union so they could again place the price of coffee where the struggling college student can afford it.

J.H.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Jim Hamilton
ASSISTANT EDITOR Bob Livingston
BUSINESS MANAGER Ervin Duggan
Associate Editor Bob Moore
Editorial Assistant B. Millner
Managing Editors Tom Colvin, Charles Rose
Sports Editor Ed Armfield
News Editor Dick Smith
Feature Editor Dave Gillis
Assignments Editor David Jordan
Copy Editor Dan Clemmer
Cartoonists Redding Starling
Advertising Manager Charlie Rowe
Circulation Mgr. Albert McClure, Jr.
Ass't. Business Manager Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Trio Of Liberal Critics Fire On Editorial Policies

Editor’s Note: The editors welcome letters on any matter of current interest. Space limitations, however, require us to request letters of only 250 words or less. All letters should be typed and double-spaced. Address to THE DAVIDSONIAN EDITOR, Box 218, Davidson, N. C.

Charlie Rich

Dear Editor:

The DAVIDSONIAN’S suggestion to require interviews of all applicants to Davidson offers several unmentioned advantages. Not only could we eliminate those applicants “whose records seem worthy but who do not fit in at Davidson.” We could also discover many men who present poor records as students, but who show signs of readily adhering to our traditions. As a further suggestion, all non-southern, non-protestant applicants should be required to pass a rigorous thought exam. As for the importance of “past ties,” all applicants with at least seven relatives among the alumni should be admitted on the basis of their conditioning regardless of other qualifications. In this way we can “keep our way of life” and avoid Davidson's being an “intellectual factory”—or, in fact, anything intellectual. Sorry, Dr. Polley, but after all, you are from a far-removed section of the country.

Charlie Rich

Knox Abernethy

Dear Editor:

Finally, in the closing lines of your editorial last week, you told me what I already knew full well. You remarked that the problems of the South were liberal Yankee professors, on which you had harangued at length. I really didn’t need that hint. The insinuation was obvious from the outset. The purpose was even more deplorable. I am increasingly aware of, and disturbed by, a double-standard used by yourself, and imposed on the student body by the DAVIDSONIAN. The victim of the not-so-subtle tirade, Dr. Polley, was condemned for his protestations against a system he sincerely believed to be wrong. I was told that he showed gross ignorance in placing himself outside the traditional sterility of chapel speeches for this worthy cause of his. Let a Northerner protest against a system which he believes to be wrong. Damnations are heaped upon him for his devotion and sincerity of purpose. Let a professor place himself outside the traditionally conformed-to prejudices, and he will be met not with praise, but with nasty editorials. You are from a near-by section of the country. Unfortunately, there has not yet been that first one to admit that he cannot forget his background and prejudices. Nor can I. Nevertheless, I am often sti...

“Yes, Virginia---” ...!

IN GEE’S OWN WORDS: Judge Defends Court As Body Which “Gives A..."Helping Hand"

Editor’s Note: Recent articles appearing on this page have criticized the Court of Control quite heavily. This week we present Court Judge Milton Gee’s defense and evaluation of the 1959 Court, produced here in his own words.

To evaluate the work of the court this year, I would rather give my opinion and the court's from our point of view on the work done by us rather than put up more than a slight defense for its place on the Davidson College campus. First, we were given a job to carry out by the Student Council which represents the student body. This job was to see that the Freshmen regulations were carried out to the best of our ability and this job we believe we did; therefore, we feel that we represented the student council and student body very well.

OVER THE HUMP

Second, I feel that our method was a good way of getting to some of the freshmen. In our trials, we were able to show the freshmen who had been in front of the student body what we thought the upperclassmen thought of them, and were able to get them over this hump early in their first year. I believe that I could name a few if asked and give positive proof of the fact that we were able to give them a helping hand.

SPEAKING IS

I also feel that this system has its place here on the campus and believe that it can remain so until a time when the college grows to the point where the student body can no longer meet as a whole as it does now. A freshman is and should be noted by the fact that he wears a red hat and name tag. Speaking to people on this campus is a fine idea and should be encouraged from the very start. Attending the pep rallies or sports events and knowing the college yells and songs should go without saying and is something the whole student body should think about. Again on the name tags; it has been brought up that not only the freshmen wear them but also the upperclassmen, for I find it difficult to talk in a logical manner to someone whose name I don't know.

JUSTIFICATION

As far as walking on the grass—that’s just part of the “Rat” system. I doubt if one could apply Christian Ethics to a base for the court but one must remember that this is a “Rat” system, one which has made a class out of the class of ‘63, one which has made a close working college out of the nine hundred men at Davidson today.

"PINE" PEANUTS

I was deeply moved by your recent editorial, not by the coldly logical way in which you disproved Dr. Polley’s assertions one by one, but by the beautiful way in which you denied his entire speech, with a few emotion-packed generalizations. I would be the last to urge immediate integration for the South or to revere the North as the home of equality and goodwill. I know that the hypocritical North is just as guilty as the “persecuted, misunderstood” South. I rather urge that we put away our time-honored, traditional prejudices, and deal with this problem reasonably. Why can’t both sides stop their name-calling and deal with this critical problem in a mature manner?

Knox Abernethy
Tom Ridenhour

Dear Editor:

It is evident that our editor has never had logic under Ab. It is simply amazing that an “educated” person could condemn a double standard for the South. Isn't this what we have imposed upon ourselves with one standard of justice and right for the white man and another, inferior standard for the Negro? Also, I believe our editor, along with many white Southern leaders, has welcomed the money and economic ideas from a far-removed section of the country, yet turns a deaf ear to other humane concepts. Increase the economic conditions but keep part of the population in economic and social servitude. Is that just? All of us would feel that force is not the way to solve the problem, but haven't we been guilty of a few things more violent than calling for bayonets? But neither is near-slavery the answer. The Negro is a human being and just as equal as the white man before the Eternal Other. Calling upon passions of ignorant people and waving the bloody flag will not solve the problem. Are we to carry the stigma of the fiery cross and the hooded white sheet forever? We must not.

Tom Ridenhour

TOIL AND TROUBLE

Nationalism: Cause Of Strife
By JOHN STONE

Adamant nationalism, more than any ideological conflict, is the source of the majority of the chaos in international affairs today. Nationalism has set Africa, the Middle East, and Asia afire. Nationalism motivates the struggle between the U.S. and Russia far more than Capitalism vs. Communism. Nationalism, however, is one of the least understood forces in the field of power today. Its causes, some say, are economic. Yet upon examination, we find both the haves and the have-nots are imbued with powerful spirits of nationalism. Imperialism is based on nationalism, some say, yet the English in the twentieth century have lost their spirit of imperialism, while maintaining that they have, at the same time, reached their “finest hour.” Nationalism is a spirit, or a psychological frame of mind. Its causes, therefore, must be traced with this in mind. The nation—the modern nation—depends upon popular support for its power. Therefore, there must be a calculated effort to wave the flag, to manipulate symbols. This propagandizing is one source of nationalism. Common language, common culture, common race also contribute to nationalism, but again, there must be an awareness of these factors, and someone must preach them before there can be such an awareness. Nationalism is therefore a force which can be aroused by concerted effort. But it is a two-edged sword, for it can create or destroy. It is infectious; one nation is aroused by the claims of another to superiority. Finally, it may become a god, worshipped by the human sacrificial rites of war.

There are at least two kinds of nationalism in the world today. There is the nationalism of the already established nations, and there is the colonial nationalism. These vary in intensity and goal. One is interested in the status quo, the other in political freedom regardless of consequence. It is this last which is dangerous, and for it, controls must be found.

SELMA AND GRUNDY

Selma Bares The Facts In Statesville Art Show

Author’s note: The opinions expressed elsewhere on this page are not necessarily, or even possibly, those of the authors. We don't have any opinions, and we consider ourselves ahead.

Last week we indulged in a journalistic experiment by allowing our three-year-old son Jed to write an article for us. As some of our friends know, at the tender age of one and a half years he chose to forsake the things of this world to become a Mongoloid idiot, and ever since he has been doing rather well at it. Anyway, we encouraged him to let his stunted mind ramble on in a humorous vein, and the little fellow came up with what we thought was the biggest ethnic knee-slapper of the year. We submitted it to the staff, but it must have gotten lost in the confusion. Something about double standards for sloths.

Selma always had a desire to be in show business, so I took her up to Statesville last week to see how the pros did it. While we were climbing over the fence, the cops chased us into a tent and Selma, seeing her big chance, jumped up on the stage and did a solo. You know, the cops work in two shifts up there, one on the fences and the other inside the shows. If you have the good fortune to be caught slipping in at the moment the shifts change, you’re golden. It’s strange—the cops didn’t get us for sneaking in, but they did get Selma for showing too much as she came over the fence. She got her kicks, though.

We can tell by all the aimless enthusiasm that the Freshman-Sophomore field day must be happening along in here somewhere. It's enough to make Selma philosophical. Most of the boys participate in the hope of gaining transient rewards, such as fame, glory, freedom from freshman regulations, or just plain thrills. We wonder how many of them participate in the full knowledge of the permanent, eternal rewards to be reaped: athlete’s foot, shin splints, hernia. These are the things which lend so much dignity to field day. Maim yourself free, cripple without a cause.

Stop composing a minute and say goodbye, Jed.

"Aaaaaargh."

SUDDENLY I FEEL LIKE THE PIED PIPER.