PAGE SIX

Local Students Attend Statesville ‘Art Show’

By CHARLES ROSE
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Several cars pulled off the main highway and onto the cow pasture parking lot. The occupants piled out and stepped
briskly over the rough ground to the gate. In a wooden booth lit by a single bare bulb, a chubby
ticket seller collected fifty cents a head. The heavy smells that drifted from the pie and cake and country ham
sales had little effect on the brisk pace of this group; they were urged on with some unified purpose. The
fresh wood chips and damp red dirt made a soft walkway between the lighted tents. The boys that came in
such a hurry were still moving, maybe a little slower, but moving just the same. Before them loomed three brightly
lit and gaudily decorated stages; at last, they had arrived. The Statesville Fine Arts Festival was about to begin.

The barker barked. He told of the wonders within the tent and young men in ivy league sport shirts and
tan wash pants took in every word. Some were old hands at such forms of entertainment and could boast of
better; others were first-timers who had never seen a “girlie show.” Wide-eyed with curiosity or bent double laughing, an audience
of young men that were rounding out their education waited patiently for the barker’s spiel to end. The doors of
the Latin Casino were opened and the herd entered. One dollar was the bill this time. Some smiled slowly in
educated self-confidence, while others became suddenly calm and serious.

In a small dressing room on one side of the stage, a man and a woman sat and talked quietly.
The man was Lou Ascol and the woman his wife Petti Dayne. They both had just arrived that very day
from Boston, and this was their first appearance in a county fair. Lou and Petti, a burlesque comedy team from
Boston, both began working with shows in early childhood and were among the first entertainers to travel overseas with the
USO. At their eleven-room home in Pinehurst, Mass., they left their three children. They talked about their new home with
obvious pride. Most of the work they had done themselves. Lou did a lot of the actual building and Petti
helped with the painting. In their spare time, the couple worked with ceramics. Married twelve years and now working with
stock companies, they were happy. Outside in the dimly lit “auditorium,” the crowd became restless and clapped for the “girlie
show” to begin.

White Talks (Continued From Page One)

The deadline for student applications for Operation-Crossroads Africa is October 31. This, the second such project, is a student study
work camp to be held in thirteen African countries next summer. The camp will be sponsored by the Morningside Community
Center in New York City and is interfaith and interracial in nature. The applications of 135 college upperclassmen will be
accepted. Wake Forest College and Emory University have officially endorsed the effort and the faculty and students of Davidson, Queens,
Duke, University of North Carolina, Sweetbriar, Hollins, and numerous other colleges of this area have expressed an interest.

The project this year will extend from June 15, orientation, until August 25, when the group returns to New York.
The group will spend a few days in London for sightseeing and sessions with British and French Colonial Officers. In
Africa, there will be an orientation tour of the capitals of the countries followed by work camp projects to be
held in nine nations. A third period will be devoted to a tour of the most interesting and significant parts
of the country. The cost of the trip will be $875, exclusive of personal and travel expenses. The Morningside Community
Center will provide for travel costs for all applicants accepted by the committee out of funds raised for this purpose.
Each student is asked to hold educational forums and conferences at his school before and after the project and to
write a report on his experiences.

Freshmen Riot (Continued From Page One)

The wounded trudged off to the infirmary where they received treatment. Tuesday afternoon the ROTC drill corps gave the semblance
of a unit having just returned from active duty. Tuesday’s rising sun found the lawn of Belk strewn with trash
and water balloons, with seven or eight workmen busily trying to make the Davidson campus look the way it had
before 10:15 p.m. the night before.

The houses of the following faculty members will be open to students Sunday night, Oct. 11, after Vespers:
Alexis
Horton
McGeachy
Bailey
Maj. Hufford
Minter
Capt. Brooks
Johnston
Plott
Cumming
Lammers
Purcell
Crawford
Lester
Robinson
Ghigo
McGavock
Smith

Reorganized I.R.C. Plans Patterson As Speaker

The newly-reorganized International Relations Club (IRC) will present Dr. Ernest F. Patterson, associate professor of economics, in an open meeting
on Monday at 7:00 p.m. in the Union Ballroom. Dr. Patterson will speak on “The Economic Problems Underlying the Conflicts
in Contemporary Africa.” The talk will be followed by a question and answer period and freelance discussion.

McAlister: “We are trying to encourage concern for the recent problem in South Africa, for the undeveloped colonial empires on
that continent, and for the possible effects of Communistic influence in these areas. To do this, we have recommended that
members read ‘Africa South,’ a periodical compiled and contributed to by a group of industrialists, intellectuals, and correspondents who are
concerned with and immediately affected by the existence of Apartheid.”

Stated IRC President Dan McAlister: “About twenty students are the nucleus of the present Davidson IRC. We hope to gain
members as the year progresses,” he continued. Monday evening will be the stated time of the club’s weekly meeting. The
IRC is not a closed organization and there is no prerequisite for membership except evidence of sincere interest and payment
of dues ($1).

Hams Meet, Begin College Radio Club

The Davidson College Amateur Radio Club held its second meeting Wednesday night in the MS 1 Room of the ROTC
Department. The present purpose of the organization will be to establish radio communications on the campus as well as between
Davidson and other schools. At the first meeting, officers elected were as follows: president, Jim Lovette; vice-president, Peery Grant; secretary,
Ted Scarboro; activities manager, Tom Watts; treasurer, Mario Acuna. The group, which is composed of licensed hams as well as
interested students, plans to join the Military Affiliate Radio System. MARS is “an organization of and for licensed amateur radio
operators who are interested in military radio communication.” A transmitter and receiver are to be acquired within the next week.
Although the station will be used by the local ROTC department, it will be primarily for the use of the
Davidson students. The ROTC Department will be “custodians” of the equipment. It was brought out at the meeting that there
is the possibility of a semi-commercial station being established on campus if the present set-up proves successful.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZAPaper dealing with a specific phase of African Studies.
The school itself is asked to encourage and endorse the project. Operation Crossroads Africa was conceived in an effort to
relate students of many religious, racial, and national backgrounds to the African situation in creative, constructive, and positive ways and
to enlarge the understanding of the West for the African situation.

He was convinced that he would not fit in at Davidson. He was turned down in spite of three twenty-minute
long-distance phone calls that attempted to get him admitted. “Next year we will try to correct mistakes we may have
made this year by changes in the mechanics of our admissions program. I will recommend several changes in the application
form that will give us more vital information on the applicant. Also, we recommend that all interested students visit the
college and read the pamphlets that we have put out on admissions. We realize that some mistakes may be made.
We are trying to keep these mistakes down to a minimum.”

WHETHER YOU CALL IT College Pharmacy, College Cut Rate, OR HUGO'S, It Is Still “A Davidson Institution.” HALLMARK CARDS, WHITMAN'S
CANDY, MONTAG STATIONERY, PARKER PENS. Thousands of Former Davidsonians Can’t Be Wrong.

Lambda Omega Rho
Some fraternities get athletes. Some get brains. This fraternity gets virtually everybody, including women. It has fanatically loyal members in
more than 100 countries around the world. It has no pin and its only ritual is the simple act of
enjoying Coca-Cola every single day of the year. Its name? L.O.R.—Lovers of Refreshment. Join up today.

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD. “Coke” is a registered trademark. ©
1980, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1959

Student Council Mulls Year’s Intentions, NSA
By LOUIS BURTON

Two issues came before the Student Council Monday night as it prepared to determine its policies for 1959-60. Tommy Colvin
suggested that the Council join the National Student Association. Bobby Avinger later proposed a policy for Student Council meetings which
aims at bridging the student-administration gap.

“I think that the Student Council should move from the position of a discussion group to become a dynamic, active
organization on campus,” stated Colvin. He went on to describe how NSA would help the Council become such an organization.
The primary unit in the NSA is the student body. The Association provides several services for the member colleges: special
publications, assistance in programming campus activities, various exchange programs, and resource services. For the student, the NSA has available conferences,
scholarships (including foreign study), a special low-cost student travel agency, and participation in exchange programs between campuses. As an example
of these services to the individual student, NSA had 700 students participate last year in its low-cost foreign travel program.

After some discussion, Dee Green tabled the issue until the next meeting when it will be acted on. Bobby Avinger
inquired as to what the Council intended to do during the year. Pointing out that judicial functions were now given
to the Honor Court, only legislative planning was left to the Student Council under the traditional system. And Bob commented,
“I can’t see what we can legislate.” He went on to express his hope that the Council would become “a
sounding board of the students.” To do this, he advocated a continued policy of having meetings open to the students,
yet advertised well enough to attract their participation in forum discussions on controversial topics: curriculum, exams, and drinking.

Green immediately backed the opinion and clarified the past action of the Council. “There have been a lot of routine
things to do here at the first of the year. We have had a lot of loose ends to tie
down. We will be able to do this type of thing in the near future.” Avinger suggested that the meetings
be held in the Ballroom or in fraternity houses. Discussion could be handled as a forum or seminar with the
Student Council incorporating the consensus of student opinion into recommendations to be presented to the administration-faculty. Colvin injected that the
NSA would be of aid in this type of program, supplying research information and data from student bodies of similar
colleges. To study the proposal further and to organize other recommendations, Green appointed a committee: Jim Bootle, Freddy Lane, and
Avinger, chairman.

Foundations Plan Fellowship Grants
The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation and the Danforth Foundation have announced their fellowship programs for the coming year. Seniors
planning to do graduate work may obtain detailed information from Professors William P. Cumming and George Abernethy, local representatives.

During the past three years, no college or university has been awarded more teaching fellowships than Davidson. Wilson Fellowships furnish
$1,500 plus tuition and dependency allowances for a year of graduate study. The maximum Danforth awards are the same for
single winners. Married recipients may receive up to $2,000 plus tuition and fees. Applications for the Danforth Fellowships must be
completed by January 31, 1960. Students interested in the Wilson awards may not file applications directly, but may be sent
application forms after personal nomination by a member of the faculty. The deadline for receiving nominations is October 31.

Do You Think for Yourself?
(PUT THESE QUESTIONS ON YOUR BRAIN-PAN AND SEE IF THEY SIZZLE*)

Do you believe that “what's good enough for your father is good enough for you” is (A) a remark indicating
that Father had things pretty fancy? (B) a parental trick to avoid spending money? (C) a statement unconsciously revealing an
ultra-conservative attitude? (D) an admission that you deserve as big an income as Pop?

If you saw a man on his hands and knees in the street, searching for something, would you (A) try
to find it before he does? (B) tell him it isn’t worth getting run over for? (C) ask him what
he’s doing down there? (D) offer to buy it from him when he finds it?

Do you think that the old saw “an apple a day keeps the doctor away” is (A) simply a trick
to get you to eat apples? (B) rough on the doctor? (C) a health precept that can apply to other
fruit, too? (D) applesauce?

Would you choose a filter cigarette because (A) of what is said about the tobacco? (B) you could hardly tell
the filter is there? (C) it has the most advanced filter design? (D) it claims it tastes weak?

Why do men and women who think for themselves usually smoke Viceroy? Because they’ve found out the Viceroy filter is
the best of its kind ever developed, for finest tobacco taste. A thinking man’s filter. And they know Viceroy delivers
a rich, satisfying taste that’s never been equaled. A smoking man’s taste. A thinking man’s filter... a smoking man’s taste.
How about you trying Viceroys? Think for yourself!

*By the way, if you checked (C) in three out of four of these questions... man, you think for yourself.

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows — ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN’S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

©1959, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
