PAGE FOUR

Dr. Francis Ghigo, (Davidson '29) has acquired a professorship in French. Dr. Ghigo was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania, in 1908.
He attended the University of North Carolina in 1937, where he received his M.A. and returned to Chapel Hill in
1943 to complete his Ph.D. requirements.

In 1938, Miss Ruth Dennington became Mrs. Ghigo. They now have one son. Dr. Ghigo has previously held professorships at
the Riverside Military Institute, Hampden-Sydney College, U.N.C., and the University of Richmond.

The Chemistry Department is welcoming Dr. John T. MacQueen as a new assistant professor. Dr. MacQueen was born in Dunn,
North Carolina, in 1933 and attended Davidson four years prior to his graduation in 1954. Since then, he has studied
at U.N.C. and plans to complete his Ph.D. labors sometime in June of 1960.

'59 GRADUATE RETURNS

William E. Wilkinson, a Davidson graduate of last May, has returned to the campus as a visiting instructor in mathematics.
Instructor Wilkinson was born in 1937 in Mebane, N.C. and married Betty R. Wilkinson in 1958. He is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa.

Martins’ Home Gets “Beauty Treatment”
By R. G. DAVIDSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Mrs. D. Grier Martin stands proudly before her newly remodeled home. The presidential home has had a major face-lifting. The
remodeling began last spring in preparation for President D. Grier Martin. The work marks the most extensive changing of the
house since 1860.

The one-story porch was removed and a Neo-classic portico more in accordance with the architecture of the original quadrangle at
Davidson was added. A one-story wing to the south was added in front in order to lengthen the living, or
reception, room. Most of the interior woodwork was changed (with the exception of that in the two original rooms to
the north, first and second story). A new roof was added, and the entire house was air-conditioned.

It is now for the first time since it was built a suitable and convenient residence for the president of
the college. This house was built the first year that the college opened, 1837, and was occupied by the first
president, Robert Hall Morrison. It was then a two-story brick house with four relatively small rooms. The house remained substantially
the same during the administrations of Presidents W. J. Martin, Sr. (for whom the chemistry building is named), W. J.
Martin, Jr., W. L. Lingle, and John R. Cunningham.

Two new rooms to the south front, one upstairs and one downstairs, were added as a result. It then had
its present front except for the portico. There was a one-story porch across the front from 1860 till the present
remodeling. Professor W. J. Martin, Sr. lived in this house during the 1870s, 1880s, and 1890s. He added the room
behind the present study and a second story over the "L" which may have been added in 1860.

Two YMCA Drives Start Next Week

The Y.M.C.A. membership drive will begin on Monday, September 21 and will continue until the next Wednesday under the direction
of Wesley Weeks, Membership Chairman. A financial drive will be launched by a chapel program on Thursday, September 24, President
Dave Robinson announced today.

Nine Faculty Additions Include Four Alumni

Davidson is hailing nine new faculty members for the fall semester. Four of this number are returning to their alma
mater to take this different campus role from teaching positions at U.N.C. and at the University of Alabama between 1955
and 1959.

In the History Department, Dr. Malcolm Lester holds his first Davidson professorship. He was born in Georgetown, Georgia, in 1924,
and married Pauline Domingos in July of 1956. He attended Mercer University receiving an A.B. in 1945, and the University
of Virginia in 1954 receiving a Ph.D. In 1950, he was awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to the University of London.
For the last thirteen years, he has been a professor of history and Dean of the College of Liberal Arts
at Mercer University. He is also a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

COMES FROM U. VA.

Dr. Charles McClellan Hummel comes from studies at the University of Virginia to Davidson as an associate professor of business
and economics. Dr. Hummel was born in 1922 in Lafayette, North Carolina, and in 1942, married Mayo B. Hummel. They
now have one daughter. The new professor studied at V.P.I. and at the University of Pennsylvania before receiving his Ph.D.
this year at The University of Virginia. He was also an accountant for some years and held the position of
assistant professor at Hampden-Sydney.

A new face at the gym this year will be Dwight Shoe, an assistant football coach and physical training instructor.
Mr. Shoe was born in Salisbury where he attended Boyden High. In 1952, he married Anne Osborne and a year
later graduated from East Carolina with a B.S. He has been a member of the coaching staffs at Myers Park
High School in Charlotte and at Wingate Jr. College.

BIOLOGY ASSISTANT

An assistant Biology professor for this year will be Dr. William T. Lammers. Dr. Lammers comes from Dekalb County, Georgia,
where he was born in 1931. He married Nancy G. Lammers in 1958. They now have one daughter. From Emory
University, the new biologist received a B.A. in 1952 and a Ph.D. in 1958.

No faculty homes will be open following Vespers this Sunday night. The Davidson tradition of faculty visitation will begin on
Sunday evening, September 27. The rush and confusion of first-week activities prompted the postponement of this Sunday’s program. The DAVIDSONIAN
will carry a weekly list of faculty homes which are open to students.

Greeks Welcome Two Housemothers

Mrs. R. A. Grimes and Mrs. A. M. McKeithan have taken positions this fall as fraternity housemothers at Davidson College.
Mrs. Grimes, from Hickory, N. C., is the new housemother for Beta Theta Pi fraternity. For the past eight years,
she has managed the dining room at the Blowing Rock Country Club in Blowing Rock, N. C. Mrs. McKeithan will
be housemother for Sigma Chi fraternity. From Gastonia, N. C., she has had many years of experience in household management.

Union's Fare Promises Active Fall Schedule

Woody Morcock, president of the College Union, has announced a full Union program for the Fall Semester. Woody commented, “Our
program not only contains varied activities, but also many events and projects which the Union Committee has never had before.
The Union is planning opportunities for professors and students majoring in their various fields to get together for coffee.

TOP MOVIES SLATED

The Union committee is also planning bridge, chess, and ping pong tournaments. There is an excellent list of movies scheduled
for the fall. “Pinky” will be shown tonight. “The Girl Can’t Help It,” “Come Fill the Cup,” “Don’t Go Near
the Water,” and “Peyton Place” are coming in the next few months.

SOCIAL DIRECTORY

The Union Committee will publish a school directory which will include students’ school and home addresses, phone numbers, fraternity affiliations,
and other useful information such as phone numbers of girls’ colleges. Along with “This Week in Davidson,” the calendar of
events for the coming week, the Union is also going to provide a semester calendar free for all students and
faculty. The calendar will resemble a wall calendar, having a box for each day which will contain all scheduled events
for that day and space for the students’ personal activities.

The College Union is sponsoring an auction next week. The main selling item will be old records from the College
Union record album. The Union is selling the L.P. albums in order to buy a greater variety of selections. The
Union will also auction off anything students would like to sell. The exact time of the auction will be announced
by the Union in the next few days.

Journalist Opens

By RUSS SHOWALTER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“We really mean business.” These were the words of Milton Gee, Judge of this year’s Court of Control, at a
recent DAVIDSONIAN interview. As a result, there have been some important changes in the Court's regulations and procedure. Perhaps the
most important innovation will be the Friday chapel procedure at which the Court participates each week. A delinquent freshman will
not be required to walk to the front of the student body, but instead will be required to stand at
his assigned chapel seat so that his offense can be read. A yellow beanie will then be placed on his
head and he will be required to wear this beanie until the next Friday chapel.

SHORTER PROGRAM

Court of Control members will be spaced throughout the freshmen section as a safeguard. Campusing of second offenders and those
who act strongly indignant and rowdy will continue until the next Friday.the Court's effort to “put itself back in its
proper place on the Davidson campus.” “The punishment this year will be extra critical,” he said. “An example of such
will be shining shoes for upperclassmen and running ‘stud’ for two floors in various upperclassmen dormitories. The best way of
avoiding punishment will consist of following the simple test put before the class of 1963.”

NO HISSING

Gee urged upperclassmen to give the Court its utmost support. He stated that he would prefer them to remain as
quiet as possible, leaving off booing and hissing. “I would like to see the upperclassmen put forth an honest effort
and try to make the freshmen class realize the worth and importance of the body which I represent,” Gee said.
“I would urge all upperclassmen to cooperate and report any violations that they might see.”

The other members of the Court this year are Jimmy Hodges, Dave McCullough, Newt Quantz, Bill Shinn, Claude Finney, Cecil
Holcomb, and Bruce Usher.

Hamilton Receives GE Scholarship

The college has awarded its $500 General Electric “College Bowl" scholarship to freshman James E. Hamilton of Syracuse, New York.
The scholarship was won by the four-man Davidson team which appeared on the nationally televised TV panel show last spring.
Hamilton attended the Mount Hermon School for Boys in Mount Hermon, Massachusetts. This past summer he toured the Near East,
after studying at the Sutton Valence School in England last year on a Schoolboy Scholarship.

The Davidson College Bowl team, composed of seniors Bobby Livingston and Frank Nye and last year’s graduates Laurens Walker and
Charles Chastain, lost to the University of Minnesota team on the program last April. The school automatically received the scholarship
by its appearance on the show.

Professors Attend Summer Workshop

Four Davidson professors attended a three-week Campus Community Workshop this summer in Colorado Springs, Colorado, sponsored by the Danforth Foundation.
Professors Frontis Johnston, James Purcell, William Workman, and John Evans represented the college. A total of 28 liberal arts colleges,
most of them church-affiliated, were invited to send delegates. The program included seminars which were held five days a week.
Noted educators led the seminars and spoke at general sessions.

“The committee expects to make an extensive report to the faculty,” Dr. Johnston reported. “We hope we have brought back
some ideas concerning the curriculum and other phases of college life which we can follow through in the future here.”

The College Union began its program long before most of the upperclassmen returned to the campus. During the freshmen orientation
program, the Union supervised the Activities’ Fair. Every organization on campus was invited to have a display explaining its specific
activity, and in all, there were more than twenty displays. The Union has published a small red brochure which explains
the operation and goals of the Union program. This brochure is available at the Union desk.

Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... services

For Quick Service on Dacrons & Ivy League Clothes, Bring Your Suits To Us for Expert Cleaning & Pressing.
Jackson Cleaners
Across From Gulf Station
Davidson, N. C.

The present northern half of the house contains the original building. There were perhaps shed rooms to the rear and
certainly an outside kitchen, carriage house, smoke house, slave cabins, and the like. By the time of the War Between
the States, a new president's house had been built (on the lot opposite the present Shearer Hall) and the old
president’s house had become a faculty house. When Maxwell Chambers left Davidson a quarter of a million dollars, part of
this money was used to enlarge the old house. This was in...

New Artist Series

The Davidson College Artist Series this year has scheduled the performance of a number of concerts and also the appearance
of several nationally known personalities. The first program will be held during Homecoming and will feature Harrison Salisbury, the Pulitzer
Prize-winning journalist and correspondent. Other performances for this year will be: November 13, Vincent Price; November 23, the Pamplona Choir;
January 12, The David Tihmar Dance Theatre; February 19, Donald Gramm; and March 16, Anton Kuerti. One additional artist will
appear in the spring.

From the land of the north comes Robert Sutherland Lord, a new instructor in organ. Mr. Lord was born in
Marblehead, Massachusetts, in 1930. He attended Dartmouth College where he received an A.B. in 1952. He also earned an M.A.
at Yale the early part of this year. He has served as the minister of music at the First Presbyterian
Church in Bridgeport, Conn., and at the Edgewood Congregationalist Church in New Haven.

The highlight of this series of foreign meals will be an international dinner. Following the meal, there will possibly be
a debate between two English and two German students over World War II. Morcock added...

Salem refreshes your taste

NOW MORE THAN EVER

Salem's new cigarette paper discovery “air-softens” every puff. Invisible porous openings blend just the right amount of fresh air with
each puff for a softer, fresher, more flavorful smoke. Special new HIGH POROSITY cigarette paper breathes new refreshing softness and
finer flavor into the smoke. Now, more than ever, there's Springtime freshness in every puff of a Salem. Smoke refreshed...
smoke Salem.
