Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1959
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A Challenge-And An Opportunity

The nine-school survey (see elsewhere on this page) only makes more explicit what we have felt for some time. The
Davidson system of attendance regulations is badly outmoded. It does not place the primary responsibility for gaining an education on
the students, which is where it should be found.

Our basic objection to the system is this: a college should not stop with teaching a student the contents of
books and instructors’ minds; an equally important aim should be the full development of a person’s maturity, responsibility, and sense
of values. This is the sort of thing that would require no material investment on the part of the college.
Trust and confidence in the students would be the only investments necessary.

How Else?

How can a person learn these virtues better and more rapidly than to be given the opportunity, and how can
this process be more impaired than to have this opportunity withheld? A bird will fly no sooner than he is
pushed out of the nest. A man cannot learn to swim if he does not get into water. A person
will not, in most cases, develop maturity and responsibility if he is hand-led through every decision.

One main objection to a more liberal system of class cuts seems to be the idea that the Davidson student
is too immature to realize the implications of such a concession. He is liable to lose perspective with the prospect
of making his own decisions and may turn into an utter academic failure. Is this not a rather premature conclusion?
Who can say what the result will be if the student is given this opportunity? To condemn his yet unknown
reaction is like failing him without giving him the examination.

Courage Required

Another objection is the fear that a more liberal system would result in a lowering of class standards. We admit
that the institution of such a system presupposes a good deal of courage and fibre on the part of the
instructor. He must not be afraid to fail a student when necessary, even though the instructor feels that the student
has the capability to pass. After all, a college career consists of developing one’s talents, and not to graduate on
the basis of latent, predicted capabilities. But if the faculty can meet this challenge, which we think it can, the
result would be a more interested and perceptive student body. The chaff would be gone, and the real desire for
an education would be heightened among those students remaining.

A more liberal cut system may, we admit, result in a higher student mortality rate, but those who fall will
be the ones who don’t have a full appreciation for a higher education, didn’t have the real equipment for college
in the first place, ones who are wasting their own time and that of the college. It seems to us
that the college is perhaps lowering her standards a bit when she feels that she must force a student to
learn whether he wants to or not. The faculty should present an education and let the student absorb it if
he chooses. If he so chooses, he will gain an education in more ways than one, having learned the invaluable
lesson of self-discipline and appreciation.

Proposal

It is with these thoughts in mind that we propose the following attendance regulations: that there be no change in
the requirements for Physical Training, Chapel, Vespers, and ROTC; that all freshmen, sophomores with a previous semester’s average lower than
2.0 and juniors and seniors with a previous semester's average lower than 1.0 be subject to class attendance regulations as
they now stand; all other sophomores, juniors and seniors be given the privilege and responsibility of optional class attendance; that
there be no unexcused absences whatsoever from laboratories, seminars, and discussion groups; and that every student be required to meet
the last class before and the first class after a holiday, with the penalty for violation the loss of all
cut privileges for thirty days. The Dean’s office should have the privilege of waiving the last requirement for students with
holiday jobs.

An Opportunity

This is an opportunity for the faculty to do a great thing for its students. The least it can do
is to examine and test every available policy that may increase the value of a Davidson education. This is a
chance to really prepare the Davidson graduate for the unsheltered life he will meet upon leaving school. If a more
liberal cut system doesn’t work, fine. Let the faculty throw it out. But after it is thrown out, the faculty
cannot be accused of negligence because it did not try. We're betting, though, that such an action won’t be necessary.
The faculty is the group which can take action on this proposal. We are prepared to defend it to anyone,
including the faculty, both as individuals and as a group. We hope to see a careful consideration of this proposal
at the next opportunity.

R.C.S.

Quiz Shows Versus Education

Charles Van Doren is guilty and thousands of blazing newspaper headlines have proclaimed the shamefulness of his act. But equally
as shameful to our way of thinking is that the whole cause of education and knowledge has been prostituted. The
big gift shows have made knowledge a showpiece. The egghead flaunts his knowledge just as the magnate exhibits his new
Cadillac. Such a display of knowledge seems to be proof of intellectual superiority. But the desire for knowledge should be
based on very different motives. Knowledge is not just something to exhibit to prove one’s intellectual status. Knowledge is a
tool—not only to facilitate some technical task—but also a tool necessary for leading a well-rounded, satisfying life. We who profess
the value of a liberal education must realize this or else our education becomes a sham or at best only
a period of collecting facts that we can spew out in later years to prove we have been to college.

J.H.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Ed Armfield

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Dick Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Dave Gillis

Associate Editor
Jim Hamilton

Editorial Assistant
Bob Livingston

Managing Editors
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore

Sports Editor
B. Millner

News Editor
Tom Calvin

Feature Editor
Charles Rose

Assignments Editor
David Jordan

Copy Editor
Dan Clemmer

Cartoonists
Redding Starling

Advertising Manager
Charlie Rowe

Circulation Mgr.
Albert McClure, Jr.

Ass't. Business Manager
Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1878.

Letters Are Whimsical, Caustic

Glynn Hughes

Dear Editor:

Monday, sitting in thoughtful solitude with my Alka Seltzer, it seemed a lot easier to look back on Homecoming dispassionately.
Weighing up the pleasures of an American-type dance weekend against the casualties incurred—through the football game, car smashes, getting pinned,
and so on—it seems it was quite a success.

But even with so comparatively few casualties, there is definitely room for improvement. And I think this could be easily
done with a few small changes. First of all, why not have a real gladiator show or bullfight instead of
that nasty rough football game? Much more exciting, and of course, no worry about the home team losing. Secondly, they
ought to ban this glut of cars which appears on Campus over the weekend. Then there’s this strange weakness the
Davidson student shows in letting himself be monopolized by his date. He watches the football game with her, goes out
to dinner with her, dances with her, parks with her, and then wonders just what it was that hit him.
‘Safety in numbers’ is an old maxim: to forget it is to put yourself at a serious disadvantage from the
beginning. So take some advice from the Old World—pass that date around a little. Let her circulate.

They tell me that the inmates of Belk, which was re-invaded about 2:30 Sunday afternoon, spent quite a time disposing
of bottles, pieces of clothing, odd earrings, and other interesting leftovers. Next year, they are looking forward to seeing the
visitors settled into tents pitched over on the soccer field.

Glynn Hughes

Knox Abernethy

Dear Editor:

This is a guide to all students angry enough to write letters to the editor, printed in the hope that
it will be of great assistance.

1. Make sure that you are really mad. If whatever you’re writing about doesn’t fill you with blindwrath, wait until
after R.O.T.C. drill or an unfair review; then write your letter.

2. Make as many sarcastic remarks as you can; make your words sharp and your wounds deep. Remember, the more
cuts you make, the more blood will be spilled.

3. Stay clear of any constructive criticism. Be sure that the entire letter is a scathing attack on some aspect
of life at Davidson, or, better yet, on the college as a whole.

4. Include some new caustic attacks on at least one of the following: The admissions policy, with specific reference to
Mr. White; the “Davidson Gentleman” at Vespers; tradition and apathy; and Dr. Polley’s chapel speech.

5. Rub salt into old wounds; keep controversy and scandal alive. But most important, double-check to make certain that nothing
constructive will ever come out of your cynical tirade.

6. Use this article as a guide to more effective and more devastating criticism.

Knox Abernethy

Survey Of Top Colleges Shows
By DICK SMITH
Assistant Editor

EDITOR'S NOTE: During the past month the DAVIDSONIAN has polled nine colleges and universities concerning their absence regulation policies. All
of the institutions queried (selected on a basis of reputation, quality, and the editors’ belief that information from other schools
would be helpful in determining a sensible absence policy for Davidson College) sent replies which are summarized below. It should
be noted that the editors had no previous knowledge of policies at the schools selected for questioning and that every
answer received is included in this article.

DARTMOUTH
Students are expected to attend each scheduled class “regularly.” No mention is made as to what is considered “regularly.” If
a student fails to do so, his negligence may be taken into account by the instructor in determining the student's
final grade. The Dean of the College writes that “Our present procedure is to have no policy at all.”

YALE
“Regular” attendance again required. Sophomores on the Dean's List, Juniors, and Seniors are not held to a limited number of
cuts, except in courses in which active participation is required, such as labs, seminars, and discussion groups. All Freshmen and
Sophomores not on the Dean’s List are allowed a maximum of twenty cuts in all courses each semester, not to
exceed five in each course. Yale does not differentiate between excused and unexcused absences. The Assistant Dean remarks, “The Yale
College faculty feels that members of the junior and senior class are mature enough to decide for themselves the question
of class attendance.”

PRINCETON
“Undergraduates are expected to attend all of their scheduled University exercises...” Cuts allocated to freshmen and sophomores are determined by
their instructor; “There is no regular reporting or central recording of absences for juniors or seniors, but they are placed
on probation if reported by an instructor as having been absent too often, and their attendance thereafter is checked by
special reports.” The Assistant Dean of the College makes it clear that “We have felt for some time that our
old system of close supervision and restriction of underclassmen was no longer necessary for students almost all of whom go
to college with a serious purpose. We are putting the responsibility directly on the student and hoping that our faith
in him will prove justified, and that the necessary control over the few who are not yet mature enough to
organize their own lives will be provided by members of the faculty or, in extreme cases, the Dean of the
College.”

UCLA
UCLA's one paragraph in the Regulations dealing with this subject reads, “Every student is required to attend all his class
exercises and to satisfy the instructor in each of his classes that he is performing the work of the course
in a systematic manner.” Says the Assistant Dean of Students, “The instructor is given the broadest leeway in carrying out
campus regulations, and there are some who are more lenient on this subject than the regulation would indicate.”

BROWN
Each student is allowed three unexcused absences in each course, with the following exceptions: Unlimited class cuts are the privilege
of Sophomores on the Dean’s List, fourth-semester students with a C plus average, and all Juniors and Seniors. Position on
the Dean’s List is awarded to students having the Davidson equivalent of 2.25 for four courses, 2.2 for five courses,
and 1.75 for Honors courses. Grades for inclusion on the Dean's List are not cumulative, but are based on the
previous semester.

AMHERST
Freshmen are not permitted any unexcused absences whatsoever. Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors are bound only by the instructor’s policy.

SEWANEE
Same class cut policy as that of Davidson, with this exception: “Students who have earned membership in the Order of
Gownsmen are granted the privilege of ‘optional class attendance’ (unlimited cuts).” Membership in this Order is based on grades of
the previous semester. Those eligible include Sophomores with the equivalent average of 2.0, Juniors holding a 1.25, and Seniors with
a grade point average of 1.0. A student is dropped from the Gown when he fails to meet the requirements,
but may be reinstated upon remeeting the required average.

WILLIAMS
During the first term, freshmen are allowed three absences from each course. Privileges in the second term are determined by
the first term’s grades, according to the following schedule: a first term B in a course allows five absences in
that course; a C allows three absences; a D, two; an F, one. Members of the upper three classes who
have a B average or higher are subject only to the instructor's policy in each class.

HARVARD
“Regular attendance at college exercises is expected.” “Students whose names are on the Dean’s List will be trusted by the
Dean with greater responsibility and discretion in the matter of attendance, as far as this does not interfere with the
collective interests of the classes or sections to which they belong.” The Dean of Students adds in the accompanying letter,
“As you will note, the wording of our statement is general and allows considerable latitude. I should add, therefore, that
each case of class cuts that is brought to the attention of the administration is treated on an individual basis.
Our policy toward attendance is a liberal one, and we only take action when a student abuses the freedom we
mean him to enjoy.”

So far as absences before and after holidays are concerned, the following applies: Princeton records double cuts. Attendance is required
at Williams, Yale, Brown, and Dartmouth. Harvard students are merely “expected not to extend the Christmas or April recess.” No
mention of the question is made by Amherst, UCLA, or Sewanee.

DAVIDSON NOTEBOOK
“Get Thee Learning, And From Learning, Wisdom”

Launched into college with the stern directive “Get ye learning, and from learning, wisdom,” the college student inevitably looks toward
the professor as a source of inspiration and guidance. The professor, by virtue of his position, is assumed to be
an enlightened man, one whose superior sensitivity, insight, and understanding are an exemplification of the worth of the education which
he is to pass on.

The heavy and demanding responsibilities of the conscientious professor are well enumerated in this paraphrase of one teacher's remarks made
thirty-five years ago. The professor should seek:

To have patience, that he may thoroughly learn the supreme art of teaching, which is to wait;
To stimulate curiosity and feed it;
To turn fear to courage, to make the weak will strong, to transform indifference into ambition, to shame self-pity into
self-confidence;
To obtain strength and that gentleness which is the garment of strength; to refrain from weakness, and from petulance and
tyranny which are the signs of weakness;
To develop a mature mind, a sense of values, and the ability to distinguish between essentials and non-essentials;
To possess a wise blindness to the faults of exuberance and a wise evaluation of enthusiasm;
To strive not so much to be called master as to be a master, and not to show authority so
much as to have it;
To remember always the profits of his calling, the satisfaction of pursuing a noble task; and to learn humility, that
he may continue to learn while he teaches.

It is reprehensible when a professor so inadequately meets these standards that his teaching fails to command the student’s respect
and interest. It is inexcusable when the student meets with disillusionment in such dull classes and must seek elsewhere for
inspiration—in books and companions more stimulating than professors. It is tragic when the professor, fearful for his self-respect, denies him
this opportunity to learn and chains him to a round of everlasting, compulsory, unimaginative drudgery.
