PAGE FOUR

Best selling author Vance Packard listens to a question from DAVIDSONIAN Managing Editor Ervin Duggan in a television interview held in Charlotte Wednesday. Tommy Colvin, Book-of-the-Semester Program Chairman, listens intently as College Chaplain George Staples (right) looks for a point in Packard’s The Status Seekers. News commentator Phil Agresta (left) acted as host for WBTV’s Digest which will show the interview at 5:45 Sunday afternoon. (Photo by Rose.)

Vance Packard Interview (Continued from page one)

classes to advance up the educational ladder. The amount of education is becoming the new class divider in America. from the pressures of her former status seeking. than our own. “Our rigid society does not fit the needs of America. We need more understanding of those in other social classes than our own. “Also there should be more opportunity for those intelligent children in the lower

Shearer Biblical Hall Loses Status To Axe
By BILL MOSS

To one not well versed in Davidson’s ivy-draped traditions, it might seem strange that amidst the great jubilation accompanying the announcement of plans for the John R. Cunningham Fine Arts Center, there is a decided note of sadness among many students. “If we are to achieve the American Dream we must provide for the future education of all students that merit it.” In regard to status on campus, Packard said that students are not moved to specific patterns of actions or dress just by the desire to conform, but because they wish to copy those that they emulate. On the campus, as in other facets of life, Packard stressed the need of an understanding of ourselves and others so that we may be able to live in our society free from the anxieties that are engendered by status seeking.

All Facilities Used For 700 “Friends”

a lighted dormitory window on Saturday night, like a half dollar in a vespers collection plate, proudly proclaiming her distinct individuality. This display of such mixed emotions is, however, not at all surprising when we realize that this new building will necessitate the destruction of a great landmark long cherished by the gentlemen of Davidson. Yes, lovely old Shearer Biblical Hall must fall to the brazen axe of progress. This stately eyesore has long stood firm against what is, according to most of our

Undoubtedly, great planning and foresight have gone into the layout of the rest of the campus so that a casual passer can receive the best possible impression of the campus; for, certainly, it could be no accident that the only college building coming next weekend, Mrs. J. B. Moore has arranged

With a record number of girls expected for Homecoming next weekend, Mrs. J. B. Moore has arranged

After Vespers Open Houses

The houses of the following faculty members will be open to students Sunday night, October 18, after Vespers:
Bryan
McGill
Sailstad
Calhoun
Mebane
Thies
Causey
Capt. Mitchell
Thompson
Fulcher
Mrs. Moore
Trakas
Gallent
Patterson
Tyson
Goodykoontz
Polley
West
Houchens
Reid
White

Each of the four floors will have two baths. Currie pointed out that this will in effect divide every hall into two sections. The corridors will have grey tile to wainscoting height and acoustical tile ceilings. The lounge and corridors will be gray. Each room will be 14 feet 8 inches long and eleven feet nine inches wide and will have

Hudgins Sets Deadline For Rhodes Applications

Rhodes Scholarship competition for 1959 was announced today by D. Edward Hudgins, of Greensboro, who stressed that the deadline is November 4. Mr. Hudgins, Vice President and General Counsel of Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Company, is secretary of the selection committee in North Carolina for next year's candidates for the coveted two-year scholarships at England’s Oxford University. "The selection committee,” Mr. Hudgins said, “is interested in good all-around young men — that is, those who have shown some definite quality of real distinction leadership, scholastic ability and physical vigor.”

Rabbi To Conduct IWF Faith Program

Rabbi Israel Gerber from Temple Beth-El in Charlotte will speak on “The Jewish Concept of the Kingdom of God” and will lead a discussion of Judaism at the Westminster Fellowship meeting at 8 p.m. Wednesday, October 28 in the Student Lounge of the campus church. The meeting is open to any interested members of the faculty and student body. The WF also extends an invitation to any students interested in going to Queens tomorrow night for a supper, skit.

Any unmarried male student between 19 and 25 who is at least a Junior in college is eligible to compete for one of the awards which each year send 32 American men to study at Oxford. Davidson ranks in the top ten institutions of higher learning in the country in the percentage of graduates who have become Rhodes scholars. The College now has a total of twelve scholars, the last two winning the award in 1956, Jason McManus and Frederick Myers. “The Rhodes scholar may choose studies in any of Oxford’s colleges,” Mr. Hudgins, himself a former Rhodes scholar, pointed out. “The award may be extended to three years in certain cases approved by the Trustees,” he added.

TWO BINS

At the entrance to each room will be a lavatory and mirror, separated from the rest of the room by a short partitioning wall. Two laundry bins and a shelf suitable for a radio or phonograph have been proposed for the area opposite the lavatory. Final decision concerning this area awaits cost estimates; however, there will probably be at least a shelf. Next to the lavatory area and on opposite sides of the room will be placed two wall units. Each unit will include a wardrobe, four drawers, a small cabinet and additional storage area at the top. The beds in each room will fit between the wall unit and the desks at the end of the room, parallel to the wall. This “built-in” effect is a major change from the present dormitories where beds project into the middle of the room with their heads at the walls.

MUCH PIN-UP ROOM

A long shelf will extend from the wall unit to the desk, over the bed. There will be additional shelving over the desk. The possibility of putting a cork wall area above the desks and beds is now under consideration. A possible alternative would be to put a vinyl plastic covering over a section of the wall to protect it. Adequate bulletin board space will be provided. The desks will be formica-topped and each will have a fluorescent lamp. The area under the desk will either be wood or will be painted with a scuff-resistant color. Currie pointed out that the main changes in room arrangement from the patterns now followed in Belk and Little Dormitories will be in shelf space and location of the beds. The building will have four levels as seen from the Belk side and five as seen from the Fraternity Court side. At present no rooms are scheduled for the basement. This area will be used for additional storage space and to provide a bar-bell room for student use.

REAL COLUMNS

There will be three entrances, each of which will be sheltered by a portico. The columns at the front of the building will be real. The lobby will be furnished with natural-finish furniture in a manner similar to that of Belk. Construction began in July and the building is scheduled for completion by nextJuly. Thompson and Street Co. of Charlotte has the building contract and Lashmit, Brown, and Pollock of Winston-Salem, N.C. are the architects. In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead. Iconoclastic student chapel speakers, the great bane of our institution: conformity. No herself, Shearer Biblical Hall, red brick neo-classic style building of pleasing form and line like every other building from the fraternity houses to the church, Shearer seems to proudly proclaim that she will not be like the rest: she will not conform to the architecture of the other campus buildings. This carefully thought out arrangement might even be called deceptive; for, imagine the shock these passing travelers would receive if they were to learn that there are actually a number of very attractive buildings on the Hill. But luckily, these sightseers gain their impressions only from the sign telling of the year of our Woodrow and from the grand old lady. How thrilled an arriving freshman must be as he comes into town from U.S. 21 and gets his first glimpse of his new home. Yes, we can be sure that our best face is to the main street of Davidson. There she stands, alone in the crowd, standing out like Phi Nods Assent To Eu's Challenge. Philanthropic Literary Society this week accepted the Eumenean Society's challenge for a joint debate, after declining the invitation for a number of years. “I think this is a very good idea,” commented Phi President Bob Morrison, upon officially committing his society to the project.

But the old lady has not always been so proud and distinctive: there was a time when she was little different from her fellow buildings. Yes, Shearer Biblical Hall, in the manner of the great American tradition and Horatio Alger, rose from quite humble beginnings, and, at heart, is really much like the rest. Renewed interest, other than the perennial challenge issued by Eu, was stirred this fall when the possibility of debates was considered by the IFC as a special addition to the Homecoming festivities. In the past, the debate across the lawn from the porches of the two halls, in ante-bellum costume and setting, was a highlight of the college year. “I think this will help increase the prestige of the societies on campus and we shall strive to make it a success,” Morrison continued. Definite plans are yet to be made for the actual date and nature of the debate, which will renew the aged rivalry.

She was originally a simple chapel, facing the literary society halls, and styled much as these structures. However, her past lies well hidden by layers of stucco and second-hand brick with which, in 1903, at a cost of $1,500-$2,000, President Shearer had her as the inscription reads, “built for the glory of God and dedicated to Lizzie Gessner Shearer by her husband.” This inscription won for her the nickname, “The Glory of God and Lizzie Shearer Building,” which was given her by the Davidsonians of that day, who considered her a lovely modern structure that was to mark the break with the old red brick neo-classic style common to the campus. Under the inscription mentioned above there is inscribed Proverbs 31:11, “The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her.” It might be interesting to note, though not to draw any implication, that in the Revised Standard Version the word “safely” has been dropped from this verse.

In spite of all this, it seems that we must bid farewell to the homely but proud lady, who once sheltered the church on Sundays and chapel services at 7:30 on weekday mornings, and let our student critics seek another old building as the target of their derision.

The majority of the girls will be housed in Belk Dormitory—nearly 500. The following schedule will be observed in signing up in Mrs. Moore’s office for rooms in Belk:

BELK RESIDENTS
Monday, October 26
Chapel Period 1:30-2:30 p.m.
7:00-8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, October 27
After ROTC Drill until 5:00 p.m.

No one will be allowed to reserve more than one place in Belk, except that Belk Residents may reserve the third place in their rooms for non-Belk residents’ dates. In addition to Belk, the following places will be available to accommodate girls for the weekend: the Guest House, one College House, the Infirmary, and private homes in the vicinity. When necessary, Mrs. Moore will write letters to Deans of girls’ schools. Also, Mrs. Moore emphasized that any cancellations be reported to her immediately due to the large number of girls expected, even up to the Friday of Dance Weekend.

The following schedule will be observed for checking in and out of Belk:
FRIDAY
Students out by 2:30 p.m.
Girls check in at 3:00 p.m.
SUNDAY
Girls check out by 2:30 p.m.
Students in at 3:00 p.m.

KANNAPOLIS’ LEADING THEATRES
GEM
Today and Saturday
“THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLE” in Technicolor
Sat. Late Show—MON. — SAT.
“YELLOWSTONE KELLY” With CLINT WALKER “KOOKIE” BYRNES
SWANEE
Today and Saturday
“WESTBOUND” RANDOLPH SCOTT
“ALASKA PASSAGE” BILL WILLIAMS
Saturday Late Show
Mon., Tues, & Wed
“ROOM 43”

Student Tickets May Be Purchased By Presenting I.D. Cards.

Among Western Hemisphere cities with the largest per capita enjoyment of Coca-Cola are, interestingly enough, sunny New Orleans and chilly Montreal. When we say, “Thirst Knows No Season,” we've a cheerful mouthful. So don’t take any lame excuses about it not being hot enough for Coca-Cola. Forget the temperature and drink up!

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

Do you believe that when a man insists on doing what he can do best, regardless of where he finds himself, he’s (A) a valuable member of the community? (B) an independent spirit? (C) apt to be pretty silly?

If you saw a fully clothed man about to jump into a river, would you (A) assume the fellow was acting and look for a movie camera? (B) dismiss the whole thing as a piece of personal exhibitionism? (C) rush to stop him?

Do you believe that “a stitch in time saves nine” is (A) an argument for daylight saving? (B) a timely blow against planned obsolescence? (C) a way of saying that when you use foresight you get along better?

In choosing a filter cigarette, would you pick one that (A) says it has a new filter? (B) merely says it tastes good? (C) does the best filtering job for the finest taste?

When you think for yourself... you depend on judgment, not chance, in your choice of cigarettes. That is why men and women who think for themselves usually smoke Viceroy. They know only Viceroy has a thinking man’s filter—the most advanced filter design of them all. And only Viceroy has a smoking man’s taste.

If you have checked (C) in three out of four questions ... you think for yourself! The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows — ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN’S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

©1959, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.