‘CATS AFTER SIXTH STRAIGHT WIN (See Page Three) VOL. XLVIV Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1960

Before an overflow crowd in the Union, Prof. Paul Marrotte introduces the first speaker in the Great Issues Series presentation of “Preview of the Summit Meeting.”

Great Issues Program Views Summit Meeting

Problems to be discussed at the May summit meeting were presented by a panel at the Great Issues Series this past Wednesday. The three main issues, involving disarmament, German reunification, and East-West relations, were elaborated upon by speakers from the embassies of France, Britain, and the United States and by two professors.

Dr. Marrotte called the meeting to order at 8:00, and Dr. John Snell, German history scholar from Tulane University, gave the first presentation. Dr. Snell, who also served as moderator for the panel, represented the German government. He stated, “We cannot com-”

Snell recommended that there be two goals, or theses, for U.S. policy in Germany, and that the United States should try to balance on the knife-edge between respecting the Soviet defensive position and guarding against communist aggression.

The second speaker was Dr. Clifford Foust of the University of North Carolina, who is a student of Imperial Russia and Asian affairs. Dr. Foust defended the Soviet position on the three major issues. He first pointed up Soviet power and growth, and asserted that the aim of the U.S.S.R. was to achieve peace and friendship.

Concerning German reunification, Dr. Foust claimed that this problem must be solved by the Germans without outside interference. He also insisted that Berlin remain a free city, since there are two German states and there are no negotiations between them.

The Soviet Union, declared Dr. Foust, is actively seeking general disarmament. The U.S.S.R. has reduced its army by one-third, and has accepted the inspection proposals. According to the Soviet position, Dr. Foust concluded, the West is the side that is (Continued On Page Four)

“Y” Prexy Richardson Names Area Chairmen

Jimmy Richardson, recently elected President of the Y.M.C.A., completed his Cabinet this week with the appointment of Area Chairmen for 1960-61. The new Cabinet, which includes Vice President Bob Moore, Secretary Dick Voorhees, and Treasurer John Harris, will meet for the first time Sunday night at ten o’clock in the Student Union.

Wesley Weeks will head the area of Spiritual Life. This area concerns itself with campus religious atmosphere, Voluntary Chapel, and other Y.M.C.A. worship services. Tom Mainor will be in charge of the oratorical arm of the “Y”, Deputations. This area will continue to fill nearby vacant pulpits and assist at the Barium Springs Sunday School. Plans call for increased participation at Barium Springs and the investigation of the use of religious drama.

Heading the Area of International Affairs will be Nat E. Watson. The duties of this committee will be centered about the task of linking the Davidson Community to that of the whole world through projects such as a book and clothing drive and better communication with Richardson Scholars.

The Community Work Area will continue to work with the youth of the Davidson community through athletic teams and the Boy Scouts. Wyche Fowler will direct this field. D. G. Martin, Social Life Chairman, will help relate the work of the Y.M.C.A. to campus social life by the examination of such issues as fraternity life and relation of the “Y” to the non-fraternity group.

The Y.M.C.A. Forum will be replaced by John Chiles’ Area of Effective Citizenship which will sponsor forums and discussions similar to those held this year. No definite plans have been made yet. Jordan will continue his work with Y.M.C.A. Publicity with the help of Charles Ring, Wildcat Handbook Editor. Further plans include the re-

Conferences Air Racial Difficulties

Henry Shue, student body president-elect, announced two student conferences on the problem of race relations in a DAVIDSONIAN interview this week. Both conferences will be held next week, one being at Washington, D.C., and the other at the University of North Carolina.

A National Student Conference on the boycott movement will be held in Washington, April 22 and 23. Colleges from all over the nation will be represented. The Conference was organized “because of requests from student body presidents throughout the country for further information on the sit-in movement as it has been carried out in the South and the response to the movement in other areas of the country,” said Shue.

Discussion of Sit-Downs Rescheduled For April 19

The twice postponed program on the recent Negro sit-downs is scheduled for next Tuesday in the College Ballroom. President D. G. Martin granted permission to Dave Robinson, YMCA president, this week for the Y to sponsor the program. The Westminster Fellowship relinquished its sponsorship when the Davidson College Church and the college denied it permission for the discussion to be held on campus this past Tuesday.

“The session of the church voted to deny permission because of an apprehension lest the church was being used as a sounding board for propaganda,” Dr. Sam Newell, pastor, explained. As a part of the church, WF activities are under the jurisdiction of the session. Henry Shue, WF program chairman, then requested permission from President Martin to hold the discussion in the Union. He declined the request, feeling the college should not be put in a position of being in direct opposition to the church.

Although five professors offered the use of their homes for the meeting, the WF desired to keep it on campus if possible, to attract those students who wouldn’t be interested enough to go elsewhere for the discussion. “An outside meeting would have given the appearance of a rally,” Shue stated. However, with the discussion under Y sponsorship (separate from the church) and with two other stipulations, President Martin approved plans.

The discussion had been originally set for Wednesday, March 9. A heavy snow forced cancellation that afternoon. The program was then scheduled for last Tuesday. On both occasions the WF requested permission from the session. However, it did not meet between the request and the first scheduled program. “In both instances, Dr. Newell had given us permission and any action by the session was considered routine,” Shue commented. “He gave permission, feeling there was a precedent.”

On numerous occasions in the past joint meetings have been held with other racial groups. “I cannot recall any previous time when the session denied permission for meetings attended by both races,” Dr. Newell said. This year’s officers of the WF and Sam Pope, president-elect, sent a letter to the session expressing regret over its action. Correspondence was also directed to the church body from other students.

“It is a pretty basic question of whether the Christian church is going to try to handle hot social, economic and political questions, or whether it will draw a line between the secular and sacred and leave those interested in the secular to figure out their own answers,” voiced Shue. “It is a question of whether the Christian faith is big enough to handle all of life. The WF was wrong. We sincerely feel it was something a group of college students should do.”

Amendment Passes Without Independents

“I took the ballots around to all the fraternity houses and that’s all I had time to do,” stated Student

ADAMS EVALUATES ROTC “MISSION” (See Page Two) NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

Student Body Elects Presidents, Student Council Representatives

Stanley, Gee, Wallace Take Top Positions

Stanley Gee was elected president of the freshman class, with Verner Stanley as president of the senior class, Jimmy Wallace as president of the junior class, and Bill Wallace as president of the sophomore class. Pete Wytch was elected as the senior class representative to the Student Council. Other members elected to the Student Council: Hutton Barron, and Jack Finch, in addition to serving as members of the Council, will also serve as class officers. Ben Sparks will serve as the junior class president, and Tyree Faylor as the sophomore class president.

Editor Names Staff At Annual Banquet

Newly-elected DAVIDSONIAN Editor B. Millner named his 1960-61 staff at the annual newspaper banquet last Wednesday.Night in the Union ballroom. Dr. D. Grier Martin presented the freshman staff writer award and Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz spoke on “The Two Faces of the South.” 

To Knox Abernethy went the annual freshman award, given to the member of the writing staff who has contributed most and shows promise of future achievement. This cash award is named in honor of Dr. Martin, a former editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Another award, usually given to the upperclassman not on the staff who has contributed to the newspaper during his years at college, was not presented this year.

Millner has named the following staff: Managing Editors, David Jordan and Don Saunders; Sports Editor, Bill Godwin; Feature Editor, Ran Shaffner; Assignments Editor, Russ Moore. Serving on the Editorial Staff with Millner are Tommy Colvin, Ervin Duggan, and Bob Hand.

Vice-president or a secretary-treasurer. 

END OF VOTING

The class presidents have a vote on the Council, but they are not officially designated as council members. This week's balloting marked the official end of Davidson's election for this year. Pete Kellogg, Chairman of the Elections Committee, announced that a total of approximately three hundred students voted on Wednesday. Thursday's voting served to eliminate three candidates from the seniors running, two from the junior class, and two from the sophomore class.

If the representatives had not gained the necessary number of votes in Thursday's ballot, voting would have continued until the required majority was reached. Chairman Kellogg expressed his satisfaction at the speed and smoothness with which these elections were completed.

John Packer and Skeeter Watson were the representatives elected from the rising junior class. John Killian was elected as rising sophomore class representative. Neither the junior nor senior law will serve as vice-president, and secretary-treasurer class.

More communications were also recommended, especially during the trustee meetings. Body President Dee Green, as he discussed the latest between the students and trustees, stated that he personally collected and counted the ballots. He said the final vote was 380 to 50 in favor of the constitutional amendments. He went on to say that, as concerns the independents not getting any ballots, “It came out that it wouldn’t have made any difference anyway. That's no excuse, but that's the reason.”

Jack Bailey, Kenneth Washington, Naomi Tyus, and Haywood Davenport of Johnson C. Smith will be members on the panel. Davidson students, who will speak against the boycotts, have not been named. Green continued by pointing out that several fraternities complained that their ballots were not picked up. Green's only reply was, “Tell 'em to go to Hell.”

Details of the program are being handled by Barbara Ford and Shue. “Both those against and in favor of the boycotts are cordially invited,” Shue stated.

Another proposal, which would have liberalized the policy of not letting students expelled for honor violations return, has been discussed with the Judge of the Honor Court, Bobby Livingston, and has been turned over to the Executive Committee as an unwritten rule.

RECOMMENDATIONS

Although the Student Council amendment, which involved certain changes in the order of student elections, was passed by a two-thirds majority, the statement on the program is not completed yet, of course. But we envision a much-expanded program which we hope will meet the need and desire of all the students. The programs will be more numerous and will involve many new areas. All this cannot be accomplished without strong student participation and interest. We hope that the Union will be your center of activity and your voice.

The Council also recommended that there be cheerleaders at the basketball games. School spirit was also discussed. An evaluation of election procedure was also suggested; and it was hoped that the Student-Faculty Committee would become a more vital group.

The Council felt that the purpose of the Court of Control should be stated in the constitution. Its aims should be the unifying of the freshman class and making the freshmen an integral part of the student body.

Ed Spivey, Fred Lane, and Reynolds Foundation have been awarded $23,400 each for study at the Bowman Gray School of Medicine. Lane, who received the Mary Reynolds Babcock Scholarship, has been active in ROTC and has served on the Student Council. He was captain of the Inter-Fraternity Council All-Star Basketball Team, and holds memberships in Beta Theta Pi, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Delta Phi Alpha, Sigma Delta Psi, and the Beaver Club. He is vice-president of Alpha Epsilon Delta and has played varsity football.

Spivey has been awarded a three-year Defense Act Fellowship for graduate study in the field of English, and will study at Duke University. The National Defense Graduate Fellowship is a $6400 award to assist graduate students in preparing for prospective careers as teachers in the nation’s colleges and universities. The award is intended to enable the holder to work toward a doctoral degree in his field of study. Spivey’s study in the field of English will be Victorian and Contemporary Literature. Spivey, a Baker Scholar and English honors student, was recently elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon, Le Cercle, the Male Chorus, and is assistant editor of “Scripts 'n Pranks.”

Union Committee Selects Officers

The Student Union Committee met this week to elect new officers. Charles Ringe, a rising senior, was elected President of the Union, while Mike Laughlin, a rising senior, was elected vice-president, and Wyndell Merritt to be Secretary-Treasurer. Ringe made the following statement about next year’s plans: “The plans for the Union are not completed yet, of course. But we envision a much-expanded program which we hope will meet the need and desire of all the students. The programs will be more numerous and will involve many new areas. All this cannot be accomplished without strong student participation and interest. We hope that the Union will be your center of activity and your voice.”

A Human Relations Seminar has been announced for April 23 and 24. The seminar will be open to North Carolina colleges. This conference will be of a similar nature as the one in Washington. It will be of an informative nature and will present all sides of the race question.