PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Candidates for editorship of two student publications have presented their platforms for the 1960-1961 school year. Bob Gordon, Charles Rose,
and Ben Sparks are running for editor of Quips and Cranks, the college yearbook, while Bill Armstrong, Charles Cornwell, and
Don Stowell are competing for the post of editor of Scripts 'n' Pranks.

BOB GORDON

The primary job of the editor of Quips and Cranks, in my opinion, is to compile into one volume an
integrated picture and story of the spirit of Davidson. In formally accepting the nomination for editor, I am conscious of
all responsibilities connected with publishing a successful yearbook.

My main concern is to incorporate into Quips and Cranks a true picture of our everyday campus life. One way
this may be accomplished is to increase the number of informal pictures, which would broaden the scope of the annual.
Secondly, Quips and Cranks needs more emphasis on the use of color, while it needs to avoid the overuse of
unread copy. If elected, I plan to spend time on campus before school starts, taking pictures to balance the number
of bleak, winter campus pictures with those of spring and summer.

To achieve this, an editor must begin with more than a theme or central idea. The backbone of any book
is its breakdown into sections (Fraternities, etc.). Any theme is lost if this skeleton of organization does not make the
theme obvious to the reader. I propose the creation of five new sections in next year’s annual. Four to be
pictorial essays on the characteristics of each class. Beginning with a picture essay on the characteristics of freshmen, how they
react in every aspect of college life their first year, and followed by the sophomore story, and so on. The
final section would be dedicated to student body spirit, and end with a full-page color picture. A theme of transition
would be obvious in such a skeleton.

This book would be larger and no regular sections would be reduced. The funds are available. An editor-photographer could also
cut expenses. Creative photography is the secret of success in any annual. When an editor can photograph his own pictures,
he can present a sharper and more vivid annual. I will take the pictures myself, if elected, and with your
cooperation and ideas give our class an annual that will tell of our four big years of change... of transition.

My past three years of experience have given me numerous ideas which should be beneficial to an editor. While I
am not an advocate of radical change, some change is necessary, and if elected it will be my earnest endeavor
to give the Class of 1961, as well as Davidson College, a Quips and Cranks to be held in esteem,
but most of all, to be remembered.

CHARLIE ROSE

Have you ever noticed the personal attraction of Look Magazine or Sports Illustrated? This attraction is the result of carefully
planned photographs and layouts. Our annual can have this same attraction. To achieve this, an editor must begin with more
than a theme or central idea. The backbone of any book is its breakdown into sections (Fraternities, etc.). Any theme
is lost if this skeleton of organization does not make the theme obvious to the reader.

I propose the creation of five new sections in next year’s annual. Four to be pictorial essays on the characteristics
of each class. Beginning with a picture essay on the characteristics of freshmen, how they react in every aspect of
college life their first year, and followed by the sophomore story, and so on. The final section would be dedicated
to student body spirit, and end with a full-page color picture. A theme of transition would be obvious in such
a skeleton.

This book would be larger and no regular sections would be reduced. The funds are available. An editor-photographer could also
cut expenses. Creative photography is the secret of success in any annual. When an editor can photograph his own pictures,
he can present a sharper and more vivid annual. I will take the pictures myself, if elected, and with your
cooperation and ideas give our class an annual that will tell of our four big years of change... of transition.

My past three years of experience have given me numerous ideas which should be beneficial to an editor. While I
am not an advocate of radical change, some change is necessary, and if elected it will be my earnest endeavor
to give the Class of 1961, as well as Davidson College, a Quips and Cranks to be held in esteem,
but most of all, to be remembered.

BILL ARMSTRONG

Scripts 'n' Pranks is unique among college humor and literary magazines. Its uniqueness is derived from its almost complete neglect
of humor. And yet, the stated aim of this magazine is to satisfy the entertainment needs of the student body
through short stories, poetry, essays, witty parodies, cartoons, and risque humor.

For quite some time now Scripts 'n' Pranks has failed to live up to this stated aim of entertainment. I
do not mean to insinuate that this failure has always been the fault of the editor. It is very difficult
for one man to judge accurately what will be entertaining for nine hundred other men. Furthermore, no editor can produce
an entertaining and humorous magazine unless the material he receives is of that nature. Therefore, the fact that I wish
to produce a hilariously entertaining Scripts 'n' Pranks does not necessarily guarantee that this will come about. My desire to
put the humor, risque

Score Hit On Mars

By RAN SHAFFNER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“C. Q. C. Q.. 20 meter phone,” called a voice from the whirring, black-plated receiver in the basement of Belk.
“We've just been admitted to the MARS network,” yelled Col. Adams above the rising volume of QRM (static). “What kind
of network is that?" I called back. “It's the Military Affiliated Radio System and is used primarily for training purposes
in emergencies,” Adams answered. “We're real enthused...” The dull drone of the power generator drowned out his last words. Tom
Watts adjusted the volume. “If a boy goes to Europe, or any place for that matter, this summer, he can
radio here, and we'll relay his call right to his hometown through commercial lines,” continued Adams. “W4LMK, this is K4MHY,
North Miami Beach.” the loudspeaker boomed. “This radio club has just unlimited possibilities,” added Adams. “There are twenty-two members in
the club, over eight operators. We've talked to boys from Clemson, Duke, Wofford, and the University of Texas and made
contacts with the West Coast, South America, and even into Africa.” “Well, we enjoyed the QSO,” the radio announced. “Hope
to see you on 20 meters here again. Better say 73's and QRT for now. W4LMK, this is K4MHY over
and out.”

Presidential Hopefuls Give

the goals of the Court of Control which were worthwhile, and give direct, constructive leadership to individuals and to the
Freshman Council. The spheres of the Student Council and the Y, which is groaning with an overload of responsibilities, can
be cooperatively evaluated with the idea of the Student Council’s taking over some of the duties which are performed in
the name of the school as a whole.

STANLEY: For the Council to be effective in its newly organized role, the group must act in areas that are
not as well defined as were those of the old Council. The somewhat nebulous term, student-faculty link, must be more
concisely understood and this definition must be incorporated into the Council’s work. Student body-Student Council function would be to encourage,
publicize, and schedule forums or chapel presentations which would serve to stir up interest in the students. A second role
could be the registration and administration of after-dance parties.

5. Why have you chosen to seek the student body presidency?

(Continued From Page One)

BOOTLE: I’m not altogether sure, and would not pretend to be. I should like to see the influence of the
Council applied not according to some predetermined plan for vast improvement, but specifically to each need as it arises next
year. Also, it seems important to me that the President of the Student Body be one to give an accurate

the proper authority be it trustee or administration.

3. Comment on the following perennial “issues.”
(a) the drinking rule
(b) the court of control

BOOTLE: a. The drinking rule should be left alone—loopholes and all. b. The Court of Control serves a purpose if
it helps only a few members of the freshman class; its effectiveness depends upon the upperclassmen.

SHUE: a. My thinking on the drinking rule is based on two principles neither of which I hope will have
to be sacrificed: an alcohol-free campus and an unhypocritical moral integrity in regard to regulations. These two principles lead me
to consider seriously the possibility of amending Section 3 of the Student Body Regulations to read: “No student shall be
guilty of being under the influence of alcoholic liquors while on the campus except that a student under the influence
of alcohol may return to his dormitory room provided that he does not cause any disturbance whatsoever.” b. The administration
of theBEN SPARKS

There are two necessary features in any yearbook, one of which has been sacrificed to the other in both 1958
and 1959. The two are editorial accuracy and a candid portrayal of student life. Last year is an example of
sacrificing a true picture of campus life to editorial accuracy; the opposite occurred in 1958. Both can be incorporated in
the same book, and this is my primary objective for the 1961 Quips and Cranks.

This balance can be achieved by using portfolios—sections of large pictures that tell a story. These portfolios will be scattered
throughout the book and one will possibly precede each section. In the past, the editors have followed too conventional a
form; the use of portfolios will improve this.

Another aspect that has been neglected in the past two years is appropriate staff organization. Improvements here will...

SHUE: The Student Council cannot remain in its present state of suspension on the brink of non-existence—next year it will
either justify its existence by the results it can produce or it will die from inertia. I have some ideas
about new directions in which the Student Council can and should move, including many ideas conceived by fellow students who
have not yet been heard in student government. I would like to try to prove that this student body is
capable of supporting a student government that is productive and thoroughly worthwhile.

CORNWELL: The editor of Scripts 'n' Pranks is faced with the difficult task of putting out a humor-literary magazine that
will interest and entertain its readers. The magazine must serve as both a stimulus and an outlet for campus writers
in order to obtain quality material—both humorous and serious. If allowed to continue as editor of the magazine, I will
work toward increasing its size and concentrate on humorous satire similar to that in the October insert. In the past
years, the humor in Scripts 'n' Pranks has been too provincial, and I would like to work toward a more
"universal" type of humor. Photography, cartoons, and stories would be more extensively used in this attempt.

The serious writing has also been too localized. If an emphasis is placed on quality, originality, and action—as opposed to
introspective soul-gnawing—the overall tone of the magazine could be improved considerably. Along this line, more attention would be given to
covers (by all means!) and layout. I feel sure that Scripts 'n' Pranks is being more widely read this year
because of the increased number of student and faculty complaints.

DON STOWELL: If elected to the editorship of Scripts 'n' Pranks, I will try to:

1. Surround myself with an interested, interesting, and competent staff.
2. Use the best student writing available in fiction and non-fiction.
3. Solicit writing from the faculty.
4. Include more artwork.

Most of the classes I had under Dr. Lamon L. Wheddon, Dentist, have probably retired,” continued the voice over the
speaker. “I finished Davidson in '47. It’s been so long, I've almost forgotten all the names. I remember Dr. Martin
and Reed...” The voice faded in a barrage of QRM as Joe Chandler adjusted the dial.

“We've got a fabulous Seay. Court’s influence should be conducted by the Student Council itself or by an appointed board
which would not rule by force.”

STANLEY: a. I do not favor liberalization of the drinking rule. The “under the visible influence” clause keeps Davidson free
from the degrading effects that would inevitably come with a “wet campus.”

b. By terminating the Court's action after a period of four weeks and by restricting action to the beginning of
each year, I believe that the court could serve a purpose in encouraging better spirit among the freshman class.

Now that the judicial role of the student council has been taken away, what role do you feel remains in
which the council can be most effective?

BOOTLE: The Student Council will be most effective if it sticks to the essentials of student government. I do not
feel that it should attempt to expand into other realms of campus activity. The Council can serve to evaluate and,
where possible, to improve and cooperate with organizations concerning the entire Student Body. It can, as it is intended to
do, “uphold and interpret the letter of this Constitution; be a representative body responsive to the student body.”

SHUE: The Friday morning chapel, which is planned by the president of the student body, can be made much more
worthwhile. Student Council members themselves or a board appointed by the Council can take over...

“I’m hoping,” yelled Adams, competing with the radio, “that Davidson will go into a non-profit broadcast of music, baseball, football,
and other activities. I'd love to see an intercollegiate network. When we get directional antennas, we'll be able to reach
any point in the world.”

“I imagine y'all had some snow up there,” surmised the Doc. “My XYL (wife) was not too far from there
last week.”

“I hope a lot more will join this club,” said Adams. “We've had a bunch of guys who're really interested.
And it’s odd how many students just drift in and watch. There'll be a bunch operating...”

“It sure puts the name of Davidson in a lot of places Davidson has never been heard of before. Would
you think Verde Islands had ever heard of Davidson?” he asked with a laugh.

“This new Belk Dorm is the thing,” the Doc was saying over the speaker. “Back in '47 there wasn’t any
Belk, no Little or Gym, only Georgia and Rumple Dorms.”

COMING UP...

The big day for sports car enthusiasts! It’s the Date of the Year—seeing the sports cars of the world in
a day-and-night test of mettle for men and machines at Sebring! Amoco, as usual, is the sponsor. And powerful, unleaded
Amoco-Gas—also as usual—is the sole fuel chosen for the spectacular performance every driver expects to turn in. Come on down!
If you drive, come the smart drivers’ way. Stop at Amoco stations en route. Fuel up with premium Amoco-Gas that
leaves no lead deposits on plugs, valves, or combustion chambers—saves overhaul costs. Or if you use regular, buy American, best
of the regulars because it’s precision-refined to burn clean. See you at Sebring!

Economy starts here
Our 50th Anniversary
1910 Famous for Quality 1960

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

GO GREYHOUND (for out-of-this-world savings!)

No, there's no Greyhound Scenicruiser® Service to outer space—yet. But if you're rocketing home for the holidays, there's no better
way to go! It costs less than driving your own jalopy, too. With this exclusive Greyhound Service, you get more—pay
less. Get in orbit... go Greyhound.

COMPARE THESE LOW, LOW FARES:
Columbia, S. C. 3.45
Richmond, Va. 8.35
plus tax

BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They
arrive in hours and cost you less!

It’s such a comfort to take the bus... and leave the driving to us! GREYHOUND
