FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1960

SIDE LINES ON SPORTS
By B. MILLNER
By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Captain John Scott described the 1960 Catfish this week as “Davidson's best swimming team ever.” His statement came on the heels of the Southern Conference meet last weekend in Charleston, S.C. The meet saw the Wildcats stretch all expectations and finish a strong second behind VMI. Scores were: VMI—108, Davidson—67.5, VPI—64, Citadel—58, W & M—40, and West Virginia—20.

MIGHT HAVE TIED
HATS OFF—To the best swimming team Davidson has ever had... to a lightly regarded sophomore, Stephan Young, who won Davidson's only first place... to the veterans, Scott and Smith and Hellicr who finished their careers with a bang... to Hudgins and Branch, who always managed to come through... to French and MacDonald and all the rest who made this swimming team the hottest article on the Davidson athletic market in years... and to Dwight Shoe, a football coach who didn’t even know how to keep a swim meet scorebook at the start of the season, but who threatened, cussed and cajoled his horses with a stopwatch and a wry grin... they all did a “helluva job.”

“If we had won the last relay Saturday night, we would have been tied for first place with VMI.” Coach Dudley Jenson of William and Mary said, “In the nine years I’ve coached, this meet was the closest.” In the individual first place department, Stephan Young was the Wildcats’ only representative. The sturdy sophomore swam the 100-yd. breaststroke in 1:10.9.

CAME FROM BEHIND
Davidson appeared to be down and out after opening day trials on Thursday, but came on strong in the semi-finals and finals, passing VPI.

COACH BILL DOLE: “If I get one more boy to add to the one we’ve already got, I'll have the two best freshman quarterbacks I’ve had since I’ve been here. Both of them are terrific passers.” Coach Dole is having a little more success than usual in his recruiting this year. He has gotten 28 boys past the admissions committee and seven of them have accepted scholarships. “I think we’ve got some real good boys,” he said. “We've got four linemen and three backs. One of them is a quarterback. We'll be satisfied if we get seven or eight more acceptances.”

THE SNOW has brought spring practice to a virtual standstill. Dole had a portion of the soccer field cleared early this week, but the fresh snow on Wednesday filled the area back up. Davidson is limited by an NCAA regulation to 20 spring workouts during a 36-day period. Although The Citadel has finished spring workouts, most schools in North and South Carolina have just started. Dole says that the NCAA may make an exception and extend the workout period. Davidson is due 12 more practice sessions and the time is fast running out.

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

DANNY HOUSE will, in all probability, be running at halfback next fall. “We’ve got some good ends,” Dole reasons, “and Danny has the size and speed to make a good halfback. And of course, we can still throw to him. Danny is agreeable, too.” Dole also plans to shift center Harold Bynum to guard and move Tom Simpson from tackle to center.

Once again, the I-F Track meet was postponed due to the bad weather and rescheduled for the first Thursday when the weather is good. Meanwhile, the SAE’s were increasing their basketball lead in the competitive race for the title. Also, the Sig Eps sewed up the handball title by defeating all other teams this year. Last Thursday, the Phi Gams downed the Pi Kapps, and the Sigma Chis beat the Kappa Sigs in games not included in last week’s paper. Basketball got underway this week on Tuesday as the Pi Kapps whipped the Pikas, 58-26. Quinton Boyd paced the winners with 26, while Keith Fraser had 13 for the losers. The SAE’s remained undefeated by trouncing the ATO's.

IF DAVIDSON were offered a blank check and told to fill in the amount necessary to recruit a top-flight basketball team from anywhere in the country, would the college accept the offer? No. According to Dr. Martin, any contributions offered by alumni must be earmarked toward a general or united fund, a fixed proportion of which goes to the athletic subsidization program. Thus, if an alumnus offered to foot the bill for a number of football and basketball grants, he would be told that most of his money would have to be earmarked to academic scholarships. We are told (but we can’t verify it) that a wealthy Charlotte alumnus offered to “buy” Davidson a basketball team several years ago. His offer reputedly was refused by Dr. Cunningham, who was president at that time.

We feel that this arrangement is a little ridiculous. We realize that wholesale changes between the academic people and the athletic boosters would ruin the college's fund-raising procedure. On the other hand, we don’t see why an alumnus, who has been subject to no pressure or persuasion, shouldn't be allowed to say where his own money is to go.

Wearn Posts High Score in Tourney
West Virginia won the Southern Conference Rifle Championship last Saturday. The Mountaineers slated 1430 points, a tournament record. High man in the meet, Joe Wearn, chalked up a 291. Davidson slipped into sixth place, but Wearn, with a 285 tally, ranked in the top ten marksmen. Sgt. McCurry said, “We didn’t place too high, but I’m pretty proud of the squad.” VPI, Citadel, VMI, and Furman, leaving the Wildcats with a winning 13-10 season mark.

Netters Slate Tough Schedule
By D. G. MARTIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Ted Keesler will make his debut as Davidson’s tennis coach this season against one of the toughest slates of opponents that Davidson has ever faced. The season will open Saturday, March 19, against not-so-tough Pfeiffer. But from then on, it’s hard and heavy for the ‘Cats. Such tennis powers as Miami, UNC, Presbyterian, Georgia Tech, and Duke will grace the schedule. Highly regarded conference foes like William and Mary, George Washington, and Furman will round out the schedule.

These opponents will face a young and inexperienced team in Davidson. The young team will be molded around three returning lettermen, Doug Orr, Harry Broome, and Finley Lee. The team will carry six men. The three other places are still something of a question mark. Newcomers Bob Huffaker, Hight Redmond, and Lee Cory, along with several others who may be in contention for spots on the team later in the season, went through long fall practice and have been working off and on—with the weather—since the beginning of the second semester. Coach Keesler admitted that the schedule might be pretty rough for his young team. But he noted that the team would “get good experience and profit by it.”

Tomorrow and March 19, the Wildcats meet various combinations of army, navy, and air-force represented schools in the NC State ROTC Invitational tournament at Chapel Hill. “We expect to win,” said McCurry. “Several medals will be awarded, and we'll probably bring home a pretty good number.”Mark. Senior Jim Hamilton and Sophomore Andy Sherrill are likely to grab places in the top six. They should get a good fight for these spots from Rick Atlerhold, Stephan Young, Bob Snead, and new: “It’s good to maintain a good schedule all the time,” he continued. “It may put a good deal of pressure on us this year, but I think the schedule is about what Davidson tennis is potentially able to match.” Even though Davidson will lose Wearn, a real loss, the prospects look good next year. McCurry sees real improvement in the Freshmen and in Skip Goodwin, a junior, and expects a better-rounded team.

The Freshman team led by Bobby Austell, Bill Backlund, and Fred Lopp will open a seven-match schedule against Belton High School on March 18.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The meet was an appropriate postlude to a sparkling season for Davidson. The tankmen compiled an 8-2 record, best in swimming’s nine-year history here, and broke or tied every school record. In the 100-yd. freestyle, also placing high for the Wildcats were Smitty Smith, who took seconds in the 100-yd. backstroke and the 200-yd. backstroke; and Tom French, finishing third in both those events. Tom Hudgins had three fourths in the 500 meters, the 440, and the 220. Looking back over the season, Shoe said he was “pleased but not satisfied.” And that means he’s looking for an undefeated team next season.

SHOE’S FIRST YEAR

This is Shoe’s first year as swimming coach. He replaced George Tucker. The three losses to graduation this spring will be felt. Captain John Scott and co-captains Bill Hellier and Smitty Smith will be missing. Scott this winter broke breaststroke and butterfly records, while Smith smashed the backstroke record. Bill Hellier was a freestyle gem. A core of sophomores remain, however, in addition to juniors Tom Hudgins, Jack Rose, and George Gabel. Sophs Barry Branch, Stephen Young, Bob McDonald, and Tom French will give Coach Shoe something to build on.

STEPHAN YOUNG

BRANCH TIES RECORD

“We swept the boards,” said Shoe. Almost clean, too. Only the 50 yd. freestyle record set in 1956 by Tommy Rivers remains, and it was tied (24.1) in the conference meet by Barry Branch.

53-32. Doug Orr with 16 and Don Killian scored 22 as the Sigma Chis downed the Pikas, 64-42. Thursday, the Phi Delts clobbered the Sig Eps, 70-22, as Bobby Davis hit 22. The Sigma Nus rolled to their first win of the season by nipping the Sig Eps, 39-33. The Phi Gams rolled over the ATO’s, 56-46, and moved into third place. The Betas edged the Kappa Sigs, 35-33, as Bill Wallace hit 11. Carl Hunt's 14 helped the Betas clip the Pikas, 43-34. The Sigma Chis displayed beautiful teamwork in upending the KA’s, 51-45. Jim Bloomfield and Tee Redding led the Independents over the Kappa Sigs in their final bid for the title. On Wednesday, the KA's whipped the Pi Kapps, 82-63, as five of their men hit double figures, the best of these being Jerry Shelton’s 22. Quinton Boyd’s 17 and Aubrey Lancaster bucketed 18. No handball results were posted.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

From the Ancient Weavers of India, the land of the Maharaja, we bring for your summer enjoyment coats of handwoven vegetable dyed Madras $29.95 - $39.95 RUSH WILSON Ltd.

The team finished a lean year with a fifth place in the Southern Conference tournament here last weekend. V.P.I., led by tremendous men in the low weights, took first place with 74 points, and VMI was second with 61 points. West Virginia (53), Citadel (28), and Davidson (12) rounded out the field.

PAGE THREE

Plucky Catfish Rally To Finish Young Paces Come-From-Behind Surge In Conference Swim Meet

That effort brought Branch a second place. He finished third in the 100-yd. freestyle. Also placing high for the Wildcats were Smitty Smith, who took seconds in the 100-yd. backstroke and the 200-yd. backstroke; and Tom French, finishing third in both those events. Tom Hudgins had three fourths in the 500 meters, the 440, and the 220. Looking back over the season, Shoe said he was “pleased but not satisfied.” And that means he’s looking for an undefeated team next season.

JIM ALEXANDER maneuvers for position against Metzinger of West Virginia in his Southern Conference match here last Saturday. (Davidsonian Photo by Abernathy)

Matmen Soundly Beaten In Loop Tourney Here

By JIM PRESSLY Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's wrestling team finished a lean year with a fifth place in the Southern Conference tournament here last weekend. V.P.I., led by tremendous men in the low weights, took first place with 74 points, and VMI was second with 61 points. West Virginia (53), Citadel (28), and Davidson (12) rounded out the field.

For the Cats, Jim Alexander and Cliff Thompson took third places in the 177 and 167 lb. classes. In Alexander's first match he defeated the number-one seeded man — Metzinger of West Virginia, 3-0. In his next match, after an overtime, a split decision declared Cunniff (Citadel) the winner. Had this decision been different Alexander could possibly have copped the title. Thompson lost his first match but salvaged a third place via a consolation win. Butch LeDoyen had a fourth place in the 157 lb. weight class.

In the 123 lb. class, Bob Bowman of V.P.I. repeated as champ defeating West Virginia’s Staton 5-2. Brandon Glover of V.P.I. won his fourth championship in the 130 lb. class by pinning each of his three opponents. Joe Heller (V.P.I.) also won his fourth championship in the 137 lb. class. In the 147 lb. class Cat Milton Gee was a disappointment, losing to Piercy of V.P.I. in his match. Kane of V.M.I. won the title by pinning Lester of West Virginia. At 157 lbs. Daniels of V.M.I. pinned Johnston of West Virginia for the title. In the 167 lb. class Hoblit- zell (West Virginia) took a close 5-4 decision over Bartlett of V.M.I. Sanders of V.P.I. defeated Cunniff of the Citadel in the 177 lb. championship match. Heavyweight Bazzolli of West Virginia decisioned Vishneski of V.P.I. 5-3 for the title.

Do You Think for Yourself?

(DIG THIS QUIZ AND SEE IF YOU STRIKE PAY DIRT*)

“You can’t teach an old dog new tricks” means (A) better teach him old ones; (B) it’s hard to get mental agility out of a rheumatic mind; (C) let’s face it—Pop likes to do the Charleston.

*If you checked (B) on three out of four of these questions—you think for yourself!

When your roommate borrows your clothes without asking, do you (A) charge him rent? (B) get a roommate who isn’t your size? (C) hide your best clothes?

When a girl you're with puts on lipstick in public, do you (A) tell her to stop? (B) refuse to be annoyed? (C) wonder if the stuff's kissproof?

If you were advising a friend on how to pick a filter cigarette, would you say, (A) “Pick the one with the strongest taste.” (B) “Get the facts, pal—then judge for yourself.” (C) “Pick the one that claims the most.”

It’s a wise smoker who depends on his own judgment, not opinions of others, in his choice of cigarettes. That is why men and women who think for themselves usually smoke Viceroy. They've studied the published filter facts; they know only Viceroy has a thinking man’s filter. And Viceroy has rich, full tobacco flavor—a smoking man’s taste. Change to Viceroy today!

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows — ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER—A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

©1960, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.