FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FOUR

A LOOK AT... SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

Figures Misleading?

HOW DO you go about forecasting the winner of a football game? One approach is comparative scores. For Davidson and
Presbyterian it goes something like this: LENOIR-Rhyne 30, Wofford 6. Wofford 6, Davidson 0. Lenoir-Rhyne 8, Presbyterian 0. Presbyterian 21,
Wofford 7.

THESE ARE the cold facts—and the Wildcats here are shivering. But more often than not, cold facts do not by
themselves win a ballgame. Things like potential and team attitude and partisan spirit count heavily. That's why we hope to
see you in Clinton, S. C., at 8 tomorrow night. It’s only 96 miles from here as the car flies.

AND WHO said: “A news reporter is one who writes about subjects on which he can command no authority?” Bear
with us, please. And we'll take Pittsburgh in six.

Dole In High Places

VOORHEES replacing Usher... Usher replacing Voorhees... Voorhees in for Usher... Usher in for Voorhees. Back and forth they went last
Saturday during The Citadel game—Davidson’s two offensive left guards. But where was Coach Dole? Up in the radio booth calling
every play. The relay went from Dole to the bench, then to Tucker via Voorhees or Usher. Finally, Tucker told
his teammates what to do. “You get a better view from up here,” said Dole. He may try it again
tomorrow night.

Out Of Sight, Breath

THE INDIANS from Pembroke were here last Friday for a cross-country meet. It brought back memories of two years ago
when the Injuns left the starting line in a cloud of dust and were out of sight before the Wildcat
harriers reached second gear. But the two teams switched positions before long. Pembroke was out of breath.

AND THE prettiest new face on campus belongs to Marilyn (Mrs. Hub) Knox. Hub is a sophomore, Marilyn the sports
publicity secretary.

What Others Say About Us

IN A story headlined “No Inchee, No Tickee” two weeks back, THE MECKLENBURG TIMES had this to say: “Big game
around these parts was Davidson's victory over Catawba last Saturday. Tee Redding, the Wildcats’ quarterback, tossed for one touchdown and
threw a pass to set up another touchdown. Tee, who was all-conference when playing for Asheboro High School, is playing
his last year for Davidson. And then off to the Army.” (Tee’s wife Connie works for the paper).

“DAVIDSON is a mighty fine school scholastically but unfortunately—like Slippery Rock, Hofstra or Bates—it doesn’t rate much national mention except
during the football season.

“NOW IF Dr. Tom Scott will measure the aforesaid words into inches, we should rate a ticket or two to
the next Davidson football game.” (The article, we suspect, was written out of spite. Two TIMES reporters had called for
14 tickets to the Davidson-Catawba game. Dr. Scott said he’d give them a ticket for each inch of type they
printed that week about the game. No inchee, no tickee).

How To Make An Enemy

NO NATIONAL mention? That's not gonna sit very well with a lot of Davidson coaches—Whittle, Driesell, Stevens, Marrotte, Parker, Dole,
Thrift, Hunt, Shoe, and Scott.

A FEW days ago the sports publicity office received a letter from a Mr. Walter Hebda of Los Angeles. It
said in part: I've been following the Wildcats for a long time, and am writing to you to ask about
this year’s team and to wish you lots of luck for a very successful season, despite the Wofford game. The
Catawba game must have been real good. How is the team coming along? I'm sure House, Redding, Morton, Gibbs, Cordle
and the rest of the fellows will do a great job... May God bless you.”

AND MAY God bless you, Mr. Hebda.

Davidson Touchdowns Too Few And Too Late
By CARL RUST Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Citadel brought its Southern Conference football record up to 1-1 Saturday with its 21-15 victory over the Davidson Wildcats,
who scored the final touchdown after time had run out. The Wildcats’ conference record stands at 0-1.

The visiting Bulldogs scored in each of the first two quarters and, after Davidson tallied in the third period, came
back with the clincher in the closing minutes of the game.

ALMOST TOO LATE

Then a 36-yard return of a pass-interception by Grant McRorie gave Davidson its final score on a play that began
with one second left in the game.

The opening Citadel score came on a four-yard run by halfback Earley Eastburn after a 52-yard drive which required 11
plays. The Bulldogs started late in the first quarter on a 64-yard march that resulted in their second score in
the second period.

Tucker ran 28 yards around Davidson's right end, Fullback Bob McAllister added a yard, and sophomore Alex Gibbs ran five
yards for the touchdown.

A Davidson gamble that backfired led to the Citadel's final score with two minutes left in the final period. A
fourth-down pass fell incomplete and the Cadets took over on Davidson's 24. Nettles hit Gilgo with a 22-yard pass to
make the score 21-7.

SLIGHT EDGE

Statistics wise, Davidson proved to come out on top by a slight margin. The ‘Cats had 11 first downs to
Citadel's 10, and had 168 rushing yardage to the Cadet’s 167.

IMAC To Fix Rules

A protest by the ATO fraternity this week over a disputed flickerball game last week was thrown out by the
Intramural Athletic Council, but the protest did produce an IMAC move to revise the rules and regulations of its constitution.

Meeting Wednesday night, IMAC delegated a committee of three to work out the revision: Chairman Worth Williamson, SAE; Buddy Brauch,
Sigma Nu; and Spud Stewart, ATO. Williamson said Wednesday the revision would be completed “in about three weeks.”

FORFEIT?

The question arose Monday, a week ago, whether sophomores who received freshman football letters were eligible to play Intramural flickerball
and, if not, was the game in question—Beta vs. ATO—to be forfeited by the ATO’s? The ATO's played two such
sophomores on its team that day. IMAC ruled Wednesday that the Betas had won the game by forfeit.

RESULTS

In games since last Wednesday, results look like this: Independents 19, Sigma Nus 6; Betas 32, SPE’s 12; Kappa Sigs
46, Pi Kapps 0. KA’s 25, ATO's 6; Phi Delts 25, Sigma Nus 0; Phi Gams 18, SPE’s 0; SAE’s
39, Independents 17; Betas 38, Pi Kappa 6; Kappa Sigs 53, Pikas 7. KA’s 44, SPE’s 27; Phi Delts 31,
SAE’s 15; Phi Gams 28, Pi Kapps 0; Kappa Sigs 45, Independents 0; Betas 13, Pikas 0.

STANDINGS

In the standings, including games up to this Wednesday, the Betas and Kappa Sigs are tied for first place with
identical records of four wins and no losses. The KA’s and Phi Delts are deadlocked for second, each with a
3-0 record. The Gams stand at 3-1.

By JOHN SPRATT Davidsonian Sports Writer

In last week's cross-country meet with Pembroke a sandy-headed rookie by the name of Sterling Martin pulled ahead of Wildcat
stalwarts David Gilmour and Bill Eckbert and victoriously christened his first varsity attempt at the four-mile track with a time
of 23:21. Wednesday, Martin again led the pack (time 23:27 on a 4.3-mile track) as the Wildcats topped Wake Forest,
22-34. Martin is our “Wildcat of the Week.”

The success of the slight sophomore apparently did not come as any great surprise to Davidson Track Coach Heath Whittle.
It was a fulfillment of the promise he showed as a member of the freshman squad. Further, Coach Whittle predicts
that Sterling will be one of the top six or seven runners in Southern Conference cross-country (Gene Wells). The Pembroke
meet was completely dominated by red-clad Wildcats tipping around the home course. The ‘Cats captured six out of the first
seven places on the road to their first victory, 16-46.country competition this year. But Martin is reluctant about any immediate
praise, “It was hardly a test,” he says. “Pembroke didn't push us very hard.” Coach Whittle agrees and adds, “The
team is not in top shape yet. The real test will be the meets with Wake Forest and The Citadel
this week.” Then Whittle relates that Sterling defeated Wake's top-notch runner, Dorsett, in a frosh meet last year. Looking to
the future, Whittle studs his descriptions of Martin’s possibilities with a wide range of illustrative adjectives. “He has made a
great deal of improvement and is going to continue to improve even more,” concludes Coach Whittle, confidently. Perhaps, as the
confident and satisfied smile of Coach Heath Whittle indicates, the big stories about Sterling Martin are yet to be told.

A WOMAN'S WORLD

With the coming of the World Series, everything at the Davidson athletic office grinds to a halt. Instead of the
swimming pool, there’s the World Series pool.

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College cross-country team, fresh from a victory over Wake Forest, entertains The Citadel here tomorrow morning at 11.
Whittle’s harriers enter their first conference fray with a spotless record of 2-0, after whipping Pembroke last Friday and then
Wake Forest on Wednesday. Martin, with strong lungs, was number one with a time of 23 minutes, 21 seconds. Bill
Eckbert, David Gilmour, and Larry Leafer finished second, third, and fourth, respectively. Then, on Wednesday, the harriers traveled to Winston-Salem
for a meet with Wake Forest.

Backfield Coach Roger Thrift chats with Bill Dole (in radio booth) by field phone during the Citadel game.

‘CATS RATE PC HOM
Can They “Do The Job”

CLOSING IN—on Halfback Earley Eastburn of The Citadel are Davidson defensive men Joe Ansley (50), Bill Whittington (81), and Carl
Hunt (36). The Bulldogs won, 21-15.—(Photo by Citadel)

Harriers Come Here For Morning Race

Coach Heath Whittle’s harriers proved to be too much for the Atlantic Coast runners as they downed them, 22-34. Once
again, Sterling Martin was the man of the hour as he hit the tape first at 23:27. Eckbert nabbed second,
followed by Ed Ledford and Warren Bloodsworth of Wake Forest. The frosh harriers also went to Wake Forest but didn’t
fare as well as their big brothers as they lost 27-29 to the Baby Deacons in a 2½-mile contest. Ron
Younger (WF), at 11:38, crossed first followed by teammate George Adams. Davidson's cake race winner, Tim Spiro, grabbed third in
11:45.

The meet with the Bulldogs should prove “a very interesting one” according to Coach Whittle. Their number one man, Lindsey,
finished second in the conference two-mile meet last year, and third in the mile event. Wednesday, the ‘Cats travel to
Blacksburg, Va., for a three-way meet with Catawba and VPI.

Booters Greet King, Skunk Belmont Abbey

By JIMMY LEWIS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson soccer team will take on King College here tomorrow afternoon in their first real test of the season.
The ‘Cats prepared for this game with a resounding 7-0 defeat of Belmont Abbey here Wednesday. An old football theory—“The
best defense is a good offense”—was applied to a new game in this, the 'Cats season opener. The Davidson offense
was so fast and furious that they kept the Abbey on defense almost entirely. The leader of that offense was
All-Southern Conference center forward Mike Laughlin who banged home three of the Davidson scores. Other scorers were John Keiter, Arnold
Kroner, George Kundahl, and Greg Winkler with one goal each. Coach Paul Marrotte also cited left fullback Dick Dal-

He commented also, “They looked a lot better than they have all season in practice. As for the game against
King College tomorrow, I look for a real tough battle. If past performances are any indication, King will have a
good fast snappy ball handling team. I am happy to report, however, that we have no serious injuries and should
be ready to take on King in full force.”

A very interesting statistic on the Belmont Abbey game is that Davidson hit on 7 of 57 shots at the
goal for a very good 12.3 percentage. The score at the half was 3-0.

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Tomorrow a Davidson Wildcat football team that has, in the words of head coach Bill Dole, “found out they could
do a job” meets the strong Presbyterian Blue Hose at Johnson Field in Clinton, S.C. Kickoff time will be 8:00
p.m. The Wildcats hope to put a damper on Presbyterian's Homecoming festivities by reversing a heart-breaking 25-21 defeat at the
hands of these game Blue Stockings in 1959. This series, which dates from 1919, has found Davidson as winner in
18 of these contests while losing 12. Four of the games have ended in ties.

COME OF AGE

Last Saturday, while the Wildcats were “coming of age” against a tough Citadel team, the Blue Hose of Coach Frank
Jones rolled up an impressive 21-7 victory over the Wofford Terriers. According to Coach Dole, “Presbyterian will have as good
a team as we face all season (with the exception of V.P.I.).” The Hose operate their team from a Wing-T,
which they execute to perfection in a strong wall of blockers headed by Little All-American Tackle Billy Ogden.

CRUCIAL TEST

This offensive unit will be a crucial test for the strong 'Cat defenses. Davidson's defensive unit will be hurt Saturday
by the loss of their outstanding sophomore linebacker, Joe Ansley, who will not be able to play because of a
chest injury. This loss will be partly compensated for by the return of Booker Clark to action at his end
post. Clark's return will send the versatile Danny House back to a halfback slot, while Harold Bynum will fill in
for Ansley.

TUCKER REPEATS

Sophomore Quarterback Kent Tucker will retain his newly-won starting post by virtue of his spirited play against The Citadel Saturday.
Another sophomore, Tackle Billy Bankhead, will take over one of the defensive posts. Defensively the Wildcats will have Clark and
Mickey Slaughter at ends, Billy Salzer and Bankhead, Tackles; Bill Whittington and Dick Voorhees, guards; Carl Hunt, Duncan Morton, and
Bynum at the linebacker posts and Bob Cordle and Danny House in the halfback slots.

ON OFFENSE

Starting on offense will be Mike Owen and Lou Zirkle, ends; Scott Lacy and Johnny Crute, tackles; Dave Lovette and
Bynum at guards and Tom Simpson at center. In the backfield with Tucker will be Alex Gibbs and Jerry Sheffield
at halfbacks. Bob McAllister will play fullback. Following the Presbyterian game, the Davidson Wildcats will have an open date in
which to ready themselves for the Richmond Spiders in the Davidson Homecoming on October 22.

Three yards was the margin of defeat Thursday night as the Davidson Wildkittens bowed to The Citadel frosh, 19-12, in
Chester, S.C. All scoring came in the first half. Down by 12 points, Davidson roared back in the second quarter
for two touchdowns: a 70-yard drive climaxed by Halfback Benny Coxton’s wide sweep from the 3; and a 73-yard punt
return down the left sideline by Halfback Danny Lopp. A 30-yard pass play netted the Bullpups final score. Late in
the fourth quarter, Coxton, now at quarterback, masterminded an 82-yard drive to The Citadel 3-yard-line, with Fullback Jim Fuller, 205,
grinding out the yardage. The attack stopped with a pass interception. It was the first of four Davidson games. Furman
here Friday.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

Know the answer? What's an eight-letter word which reminds you of good taste, sparkle, lift? The answer's easy—Coca-Cola of course.
No puzzle about why it's so popular... no other sparkling drink gives you so much good taste, so much satisfaction.
Yes, when you're looking for refreshment, the answer is Coke!

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
