CATFISH PLACE SECOND IN CONFERENCE (See Page Three)

The VOL. XLVI auidannian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1960

METAMORPHOSIS OF HELL WEEK (See Page Two) - NUMBER TWENTY-ONE

IFC Books Kai Winding, Woody Herman For Spring Frolics Dance

Winding Musicians Will Provide Concert

By BOB MOORE
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Woody Herman and Kai Winding will provide the music for the Spring Frolics dance weekend which will be the 22nd
and the 23rd of April. Woody Herman will bring his award-winning orchestra to play for the semi-formal dance in Johnson
gymnasium. The dance will begin at 9:00 p.m. and end at 1:00 a.m.

"THE OL' WOODCHOPPER"

Herman, known as “The Ol’ Woodchopper,” plays both the clarinet and the alto saxophone. He will bring with him his
entire orchestra of seventeen instrumentalists and a girl vocalist. Herman's band has won the Metronome poll and has been cited
by Parade and Time for bringing back dancing. In August of 1958, the Woody Herman band toured 19 countries of
South America to promote better relations between the United States and South American countries. Herman and his band have made
many recordings for the Decca and Columbia record companies including the “Bishop's Blues,” “Blues On Parade,” and “Woodchopper’s Ball.”

Trombonist Kai Winding and his septet featuring four trombones will play for the Saturday night informal dance. The dance will
be from 9:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. In 1958, Winding formed the septet which will appear at Davidson.

UNC Symposium Begins March 27

The University of North Carolina has announced its annual Carolina Symposium, to be held this year from March 27 to
April 1, which will focus upon “The Image of Man: The Individual in an Accelerating Culture.” The oldest and largest
program of its kind, the Symposium is a week-long session of addresses, platform debates, panel discussions, exhibits, and seminars. All
the presentations are free and open to the public. During the first three days, a closed seminar will be held
for selected students from all colleges throughout the state and nation. Participants will have the opportunity of meeting the lecturers
and discussing the issues under consideration.

Eight Scholars Cop Wilson Fellowships

Eight Davidson seniors and recent graduates are among the winners of the 1960-61 Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship awards. This number
gives the college more winners per capita than any other college in its district which includes the states of Delaware,
Maryland, West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, and the District of Columbia. The winners will receive $1500 plus tuition costs for
the first year.

Banquet Launches Greek Week; Projects, Skits Complete Program

This week IFC President Ward McKeithen announced the final plans for 1960 Greek Week. The highlights of the week will
be the Interfraternity Pledge Banquet on Monday of next week; the pledge class skits on Thursday; and the pledge class
projects to be carried out during the week.

To kick off Greek Week, all the pledges will gather at 6 p.m. for a banquet in Chambers Dining Hall
with fraternity presidents and pledgemasters, the Interfraternity Council, and the Fraternity Faculty Committee. At the banquet, The Reverend W. McLeod
Frampton, Jr., Knight Commander (national president) of the Kappa Alpha Order, will give an address: “The Meaning of Fraternities.” The
Reverend Mr. Frampton was for many years Province Commander of the John Temple Graves Province (South Carolina) before becoming Knight
Commander. He is presently the minister of The First Presbyterian Church of Orangeburg, S. C. He has previously held pastorates
in Greenville, Anderson, and Chester, S. C. He was graduated from Presbyterian College and was the president of the Kappa
Alpha Chapter there.

Thursday night each pledge class will give a skit in Chambers Auditorium from 7:30 to 9:30. The skits will be
limited to ten minutes and will be judged on the basis of humor, performance, and originality. As yet, the judges
have not been named. Jim Anderson, IFC representative in charge of the skit program said, “The skits will definitely be
suitable for a mixed audience.” President McKeithen said, “The emphasis during Greek Week will be on the pledge class projects
and we hope that the individual fraternities will cooperate in this endeavor.” In keeping with this, the Alpha Tau Omega
Fraternity has presented a trophy to the IFC to be awarded to the fraternity that has the best Greek Week
activities. The winner of this trophy will be selected on the basis of the pledge class projects and skits. The
projects will be judged on the basis of their nature, their results, and the spirit in which they are carried
out. Dr. S. D. Maloney, Dr. W. G. McGavock, and Dr. C. J. Pietenpol will judge the projects, and will
visit each one of the projects during the course of the judging. Most of the projects have been selected and
approved. They include work in and around Erwin Lodge, work at the Centre Presbyterian Church and Ramah Presbyterian Church, and
work at Barium Springs. McKeithen added, “I am afraid that the snow is going to hinder these projects somewhat, because
most of them involve outdoor work which will be very difficult if the ground is wet.” The Greek Week trophy
will be presented during chapel the week after Greek Week to the fraternity that has the best combination of efforts
in its project and skit.

Bootle, Shue, Stanley Battle For Presidency

The closing of the polls today found Jim Bootle in the lead for the office of student body president. Still
in the running for first and second vice president were Graham Allison, Jerry W. Bussell, Ed Grimsley, George Killian, and
Jim Simpson. Next week, balloting for these offices will continue. A separate ballot will be held every day until one
candidate for each of the offices, except student body president, has been elected by the necessary majority. These remaining presidential
candidates will speak in chapel on Thursday, March 17, and final balloting for this office will begin on Monday, March
21. Nominations for Honor Court will also be submitted by the student-faculty committee composed of Student Council and five fraternity
members from each class, provided none of the present Honor Court members resign, in which case additional members would have
to be elected to replace them. Balloting for Honor Court will begin on March 23 if the student body president
has been elected by that time. Elections of officers for the YMCA, publications, and the freshman advisor will begin after
Spring Holidays on April 4. These will be followed by the election of class officers. The elections committee has published
the rules governing the student body elections for this year. They are as follows: “Open discussion of candidates and issues
is encouraged. However, any efforts to encourage bloc voting or vote swapping along organizational lines, e.g., fraternity or inter-fraternity agreements
to support or oppose a candidate, shall be illegal. “Any financial support for any candidate in any form shall be
illegal. “The penalty for violation (Continued On Page Four)

McKeithen, Shue, Colvin Debate Sophomore Rush

By LEONARD RICHARDSON

A round table debate last Wednesday night presented IFC President Ward McKeithen, independent Henry Shue, and Tommy Colvin in a
discussion of fraternities at Davidson, with special emphasis on the proposed sophomore rush.

McKeithen

After stating his views on the place of fraternities in Davidson’s philosophy of education, Ward McKeithen explained his opposition to
sophomore rush. He suggested that sophomore rush might weaken the smaller fraternities, reduce diversification in the fraternities, and cut down
the contacts between freshmen and upperclassmen. “I'm not sure sophomore rush would reduce pressure on the freshmen. Fraternity men might
turn dance weekend parties into rush parties.”

Henry Shue brought out arguments in favor of changes in the present rushing system. “With rush at the beginning of
the year, freshmen are under pressure to make decisions before they have had time to adjust to college life. Sophomore
rush would give them more time to make informed choices.”

Slater Prices Rise

The regulations will be as previously announced with all pre-initiation activities ending at 9 p.m. Monday, 10 p.m. Tuesday, Wednesday,
and Thursday, and at midnight on Friday and Saturday.To Meet Demand

The Slater Service has increased the price of bread and vegetables in the College Union cafeteria due to the rise
in the number of patrons making an a la carte selection. The price of a complete meal remains the same.
Each award carries a basic school stipend enough to cover tuition. Each winner has the privilege of going to any
graduate school of his choice. Married students are considered for additional stipends. The Davidson winners and their respective fields of
study include: Larry W. Baggett, mathematics; Leland N. Edmunds, biology; Francis L. Nye, English; Peter V. O. Sterling, political science;
W. Stuart Dabney, English; and T. Perrin Wright, music. All are members of the senior class. Also chosen were James
K. Batten, political science, a 1957 graduate; and William E. Wilkinson, mathematics, a 1959 graduate.

Honorable Mention was awarded to five other Davidson seniors: Peter J. Kellogg, Alfred F. MacKay, Frank Norris, Robert W. Morrison,
and Edward Spivey. Letters of recommendation will be sent to graduate schools for the five who received Honorable Mention with
the request that these schools grant scholarships to them.

The Woodrow Wilson Fellowship was initiated in 1945 to encourage outstanding students to go into the teaching profession, but there
were no obligations involved, only that the winner give careful consideration to such a profession. Other schools in the region
and their number of winners include the University of North Carolina with twelve; Duke University, six; University of Virginia, six;
and Johns Hopkins, five.

Baggett is from Orlando, Florida. He is a member of the Honor Court and Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity. Edmunds
is from North Miami, Florida, and is a member of the concert band and the Eumenean Literary Society. Nye is
a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity and the Eumenean Literary Society. He is from Conway, South Carolina. Sterling
is from Hingham, Massachusetts, and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and the Eumenean Literary Society.

Business Manager Robert A. Currie explained that the increase in the number of regular a la carte diners caused some
confusion at the cash register, and it became necessary to post a la carte prices. Since the volume of a
la carte eating had increased substantially, it also became necessary to make prices more realistic—to begin charging for bread and
to increase vegetable prices. At the same time, a notice was posted to indicate the cash price for regular meals
at $0.75 on weekdays and $1.00 on Sundays, the same price Slater has always charged.

Until this semester, practically all students eating regular meals at the cafeteria have been meal ticket holders. These meal tickets
are purchased prior to the semester at the Bursar’s office at a cost of $187.50 per semester. The Union Cafeteria
is contracted to serve primarily ticket holders and guests of the college; it is not obligated to serve meals on
an a la carte basis or to limit the price for individual meals to ticket holders. Prices charged for meals,
however, must be reasonable and meet with the approval of the business manager. The price for meals at the college
is limited to certain amounts by contract.

Slater Service has served meals in the past on an a la carte basis as a service to the students
and will continue to do so at the new prices.

Martin Discusses Grants

By B. MILLNER, Davidsonian Sports Editor

Editor's Note: This article is the third in a series of four investigating the relationship between subsidized athletics and the
academic program.

“There are many boys playing football and basketball who would not be here if they hadn’t received aid in the
form of athletic scholarships. I know that many of them needed help; I would say more than 50 percent. I
think that is one of the most important advantages in having a subsidized athletic program,” said Dr. D. Grier Martin
in a DAVIDSONIAN interview last Wednesday.

Q: According to our information, the average major athletic grant amounts to $1050, while the average major academic grant is
only $400. For an educational institution of Davidson's type, is it justifiable to emphasize athletics at the expense of academic
subsidization?

A: “I don't think that it is at the expense of the academic program, and I'll tell you why. For
a number of years, an organization known as the Wildcat Club raised all of the money for athletic scholarships. In
1955, it was decided to direct all of the alumni contributions into a sort of ‘United Fund,’ known as the
‘Living Endowment Fund.’ We asked the Wildcat Club to change over to the united fund and we agreed to allocate
to athletics the same proportion of the total amount of money raised by the Living Endowment Fund. As this fund
has increased from year to year, so the amount of athletic scholarships has increased proportionately. Football scholarships, however, have not
increased proportionately because of the increase in basketball scholarships, which were almost nonexistent when the fund was established.”

Dr. Martin pointed out that being a member of the Southern Conference necessitates some athletic subsidization. “We are associated with
other educational institutions and as long as we are in the conference we must compete in the same market they
do for athletes.”

Q: Why aren't athletic scholarships given on a basis of need?

A: “Well, take for example a boy who graduated last year. His family could well afford to send him to
school, but if we hadn't given him a football scholarship, he probably would have gone somewhere else.” Dr. Martin explained
that even though a boy is financially able to come to Davidson, it is often necessary to offer him a
football scholarship to compete against Southern Conference members and other schools for him. Sometimes, this pays off for the college,
in the form of contributions particularly if the boy’s father is an alumnus.

Q: We had a 1-8 record in football last year.
