ABC Turns Beer Oasis Into Mirage
By CHARLES ROSE
Special Reporter

As of May 1, the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board will enforce the North Carolina Law which prohibits the sale of beer and wine within three miles of Davidson College.

Six Beer Permit holders in the Davidson area were notified last week not to apply for renewal upon the expiration of their present permits on April 29, 1960.

Mr. William S. Hunt, a representative of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, said in a telephone interview this week that the law had recently been brought to his attention. Mr. Hunt declined to disclose the party that mentioned the matter to him, but he was emphatic in stating that it was not a citizen of Davidson or one connected with the college.

Hunt said that upon checking with the Attorney General’s Office, he learned that the law had been on the books since March 29, 1935, but evidently had never been enforced. He went on to say that his only interest in the matter is the strict enforcement of the laws of the state regarding alcoholic beverages. The Attorney General's Office is now trying to interpret just what is meant by the phrase “within three miles of said College,” Hunt said.

The Charter which permits the operation of Davidson College is on the law books of the State. The present form of Davidson's Charter was last amended by the Legislature of the State of North Carolina in 1935.

CHARTER
There are twelve sections to the charter and a portion of Section 7 reads as follows: "... and it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell, give, or transmit to a student of Davidson College or to any person within three miles of said College any beer, wine, spirituous or malt liquors without the written permission of the chairman of the Faculty of said college (presently Dr. D. Grier Martin)."

Three of the places affected by this law are in Mecklenburg County and three are just north of Davidson in Iredell County. Mrs. Hattie Morgan, proprietor of Hattie's, said she was notified by the local beer inspector not to sell beer after April 29. She further stated that lawyers representing six major beer companies were looking into the matter. A Charlotte beer salesman said that part of the profit on each case of beer sold in the Davidson area goes to the college.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C.
FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1960

President D. Grier Martin presented an honorary Doctor of Laws degree to Mr. Charles A. Dana in Thursday’s chapel. The award was approved by the faculty and the Board of Trustees. Dana was on campus to witness the dedication of the building for which he contributed $400,000.

YMCA OFFICERS
In runoffs completed yesterday, B. Millner was elected president; Dick Voorhees was chosen secretary; and the treasurer for the coming school year. Chairman of the Elections Board, Pete Kellogg, stated this year has met with unusual success.

A good Hellenic week was had by all. The Olympics was sponsored by Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity in cooperation with the Panhellenic Council.student body named Jim represented about 50% of the student body. This compares to published in 1957 and has had wide usage by American libraries and by students of South Asia. The new edition brings the bibliography up to the current year. 

sold goes to the Brewers Foundation in Raleigh. This foundation is set to legally represent the beer companies in such matters. He said that notice had been sent to Raleigh and possible courses of action were being sought.

“WHO SQUEALED?”

Other rumors indicated that a Midwinters party at Hattie’s might be connected with the matter. Deputy-Sheriff R. E. of Mooresville said that he was at Hattie’s on the weekend of the Midwinters Dance. Perkins stated that students and dates were in front of the establishment causing general disorder. He said he had reports of beer cans being thrown at passing cars but that he was never able to apprehend those responsible.

LAW KNOWN

Perkins said he had known of the law for a number of years and that he mentioned both the law and the incident at Hattie’s to the county beer inspector. Perkins said he assumed that it was the inspector that brought the law to Chairman Hunt's attention. However, Hunt declined to disclose his source.

McKeithen Rates 1959-60 IFC (See Page Two)

NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

College Gives Doctorate

science building. Mr. Dana struck up his acquaintance with Davidson in 1958 by donating $400,000 to the building. This past year, he announced a $200,000 grant for the new John Rood Cunningham scholarship fund.

BEGAN AS LAWYER

the school for the science building. An additional $200,000 was given for the construction of three new buildings and the establishment of a large scholarship program.

At Building Dedication

An honorary Doctor of Laws degree was conferred on Mr. Charles A. Dana during a special chapel program Thursday. Mr. Dana, who has given over $800,000 to the college, received the degree during the dedication program for the new science building. Mr. Dana started out as a corporation lawyer. He had received a Bachelor of Arts degree and a Master's Degree in International Law from Columbia University. As a lawyer, he gained a position on the staff of the New York District Attorney, and he aided the prosecution of the celebrated Harry K. Thaw Case. He also worked on major franchises for the Pennsylvania Railroad.

Entering politics, Mr. Dana served three full terms in the New York legislature. A leader of the G.O.P., he worked with Governor Charles Evans Hughes, and managed one of Teddy Roosevelt's presidential campaigns. He joined the Spicer Corporation in 1914, and in two years reorganized the company, which was a part of the automotive parts industry. The company was purchased by Spicer Corporation; in 1926 it became an international organization with interest in F. J. Hardy and Company in England. In 1928, the headquarters were moved to Toledo, Ohio, and this move was followed by further expansion, until in 1946, the company name was changed to Dana Corporation. Since that time, Mr. Dana has donated large sums of money to a great many Southern schools, including nearby Queens College. His grants to Davidson have made possible buildings and the establishment of a large scholarship program.

D Club To Sponsor Josh White Concert

By ZACK SMITH

Josh White, a well-known folk singer and guitarist, will present a concert on Friday, April 22, in connection with Spring Frolics. The concert, which will be held in Chambers Auditorium at 7:30 p.m., is being sponsored by the D Club.

Today, thirty years after he cut one of the first phonograph records in America, Josh White is universally acclaimed the greatest folk singer of our time. Josh's voice has a caressing liquid quality that enables him to create a spectrum of moods. His accompanying guitar is sensuous and brilliant. His feeling for the music he plays is flawless. No one taught him how to sing or how to play the guitar. He was born to a young Negro preacher and his wife in Greenville, South Carolina, and was christened Joshua Daniel White in honor of the biblical warrior. His family was poor and his father in ill health, so little Josh at the age of seven got his first job leading blind Negro singers from one street corner to another. When he was eleven, Josh played second guitar on a record with Blind Joe Taggart, in Chicago. Three years later, when he returned to his family, a record scout found him and offered him $100 to go to New York for a recording session. His mother said he could go if he promised to sing only (Continued On Page Four)

JOSH WHITE