FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1960

Catfish SIDELINES THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cagers ON SPORTS | VMI, VPI Whip Cats

By B. MILLNER

IT’S ALWAYS SAD when an athletic team of any sort comes apart at the seams, when it loses any semblance of that unity which can make a poor team a little better and a good team great. Even sadder is when the general ineptness of the team effort affects the performance of its individual players. These things happened to Davidson’s basketball team Monday night against VMI. It was a game between two teams fighting to stay out of the Southern Conference's basement, for the last-place finisher in the league doesn’t get to make the trip to the Conference tournament.

AND DAVIDSON played the worst basketball game seen around here since Johnston Gym was built. Players made mistakes they haven’t made since junior high. And it was sad. But if any sort of record was established in Johnston Gym Monday night, it was the student body and not the team that set it. For surely it was the most disgusting conduct displayed by one of our notoriously disgusting audiences for some time. The Cat's blowup occasioned a general spirit of rejoicing among those present. It was the first time we've seen a home team cheer when the visitors scored a basket. It was as if the Davidson boys had been waiting for this all year long.

“WELL JUST LOOK HOW BAD they were... why, I could get out there and do that good.” No matter how bad they were, no team deserves the treatment from its own “supporters” that the Wildcats received Monday night. Said one player, who went through it: “At the second half we were trying hard to come back, and our shots weren’t dropping, but when the crowd went against us, you just don’t care much.” Teams often play in strange gyms before hostile crowds, but when you’re on the home court and your own classmates and friends jeer when you mess up — well, it’s just sad.

WHAT MAKES a team fall apart at the seams? There is really no explanation for the way Davidson played Monday night. By the same token, there isn’t any reason to treat a team like a troupe of performing animals. It would have been better to say nothing at all than jeer—kinder to get up and leave than laugh. The exhibition affected the players in varying ways. Some were angry, a few accepted it as a matter of course, some were hurt—but they all heard it. It’s hard for a student rooting section to apologize. And a good part of it probably wouldn’t want to. The best thing to do is forget about it. Team Captain John Huie said Tuesday night, “We've gotten over it. We had a good practice today.”

TO MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Salem's amazing new HIGH POROSITY paper “air-softens” every puff. Invisible porous openings blend just the right amount of air with New cigarette paper “air-softens” every puff! Now even the paper adds to springtime freshness: An important break-through in Salem's research laboratories brings you this special new High Porosity paper which breathes new freshness into the flavor. Each puff on a Salem draws just enough fresh air.

By BILL GODWIN Davidsonian Sports Writer

In Humiliating Week

The Wildcats will attempt to repair a 3-11 basketball record here tomorrow night when The Citadel comes to town. The Cadets represent the fifth opportunity afforded Davidson this season to break into the win column against Southern Conference competition. Tom Scott’s forces had rough going again this week as VMI and VPI romped to wide-margin wins. The Citadel had better luck with VMI, posting a 74-53 victory. To date, the Cadets have won nine and lost four.

TWO SQUEAKERS

Last season Davidson dropped two squeakers to The Citadel, 78-72, here, in two overtimes, and 64-60, there. The Cadets went on to finish second to West Virginia in the Southern Conference. “They’re probably the third best team in the conference this year,” commented Scott. Leading scorers for the Cadets are forwards Art Musselman, 6-4, and Ray Graves, 6-5.

CATAWBA MONDAY

In Salisbury Monday night against Catawba, Coach Scott expects even a harder game than the one in which the Wildcats whipped the Indians here earlier this season, 67-62. That game was a toss-up until the closing seconds. On the other hand, the Wildcat frosh, led by Bill Jarman, have posted a 5-5 record, their latest win being over Presbyterian here Monday night.

AT THE SEAMS

Later that night the varsity fell apart at the seams in their annual battle with VMI for last place in the conference as the Keydets claimed a surprising 70-38 victory. Four VMI cagers scored in double figures. Individual leaders for Davidson were A. C. Miller and John Huie, with eight points each. The situation for Davidson became so hopeless in the late stages of the game that local fans began cheering for VMI. Virginia Tech found the ’Cats easy victims Wednesday night in Blacksburg. The Gobblers took advantage of a weak Davidson defense and wrapped up their third straight Southern Conference win, 96-51. Bill Shinn was high for the Wildcats with 16.

Indoor Track Slates Three Feb. Meets

Coach Heath Whittle has slated three meets for the team this winter. The meets include the Southern Conference February 20 at Lexington, Va., the Big Four meet the week later, and the ACC Invitational Indoor Meet at Chapel Hill March 12. Coach Whittle said that he was pleased with the turnout for indoor track, which is as large as any in the past few years. “We've got quite a few boys out now, but I expect more after exams,” he said. VMI, as usual, will be a top-heavy favorite in the Southern Conference meet. VMI is one of the few teams in the conference that works out year-round. The Big Five meet will be held in Chapel Hill’s legendary “tin can”. Duke, North Carolina, North Carolina State, Wake Forest, and Davidson will compete. Carolina and Duke, always track powers in the state, will be favored. Both freshmen and varsity squads will participate.

Scott laid some blame this week for his team’s poor showing thus far to the pile of school work which precedes exams. “They haven't looked really good since Christmas,” he said.

DAVIDSONIAN

Coach Whittle learned Wednesday that the Southern Conference Wrestling Tournament will be held at Davidson March 4 and 5. Coach Charlie Parker made the bid for Davidson at the December meeting of the conference. It is the first time that the league wrestling meet has ever been held here. On the same day, Southern Conference riflers will be firing in the loop rifle meet at the local ROTC firing range. Parker said that VPI and West Virginia will fight it out for the wrestling title. Davidson grappler Milton Gee is the top local contender. Gee narrowly missed a championship last year when he injured a leg in his semifinal match.In through the paper to make the smoke taste even softer, fresher, more flavorful. If you've enjoyed Salem’s springtime freshness before, you'll be even more pleased now. Smoke refreshed, smoke Salem!

Battle in the local pool. Coach Shoe, who saw his team drown South Carolina in their last outing on Friday, expects the V.P.I. meet to be a dilly. “They’re plenty tough,” he said, “They beat William and Mary and their times were better than ours when we took them.” Davidson dunked William and Mary by a 52-29 count. “V.P.I's times against William and Mary were on average about three seconds faster than ours,” expounded the coach. “However, we've trimmed our times down in the last two weeks and we hope we'll be ready for them. They’re the toughest in the distance events but I think we'll take all of the sprints. They've got the depth, however, and that will give us a lot of trouble. I feel that if we can beat VMI, the only team that has beaten us this year, we are a good bit stronger than VMI.”

IN DUBIOUS BATTLE—John Huie goes up for a tap-in against V.M.I. last Monday night. It was Davidson's ninth straight loss. (Davidsonian Photo by Gene Wells)

Phi Delts Stretch

The Phi Delts moved into a slight lead over the SAE’s in the Intramural sports race. Athletic settled the swimming meet controversy last Friday by allowing the Phi Delt-SAE tie to go on the books. A mild dispute had developed over scoring. IMAC chairman Tyree Finch announced Wednesday that basketball would begin Wednesday, February 3. Handball will start that Tuesday. Finch also said that a referee’s clinic will be held Monday, Feb. 1. Each fraternity will be required to send two referees and will forfeit points if they don’t show up. Point totals to date are as follows:

Fraternity Flickerball Wrestling Swimming Total
Phi Delt 160 82 128 370
SAE 128 105 115 348
Phi Gam 92 130 53 275
Beta 149 56 68 273
KA 100 49 18 167
Sigma Chi 18 93 35 146
Kappa Sig 139 49 40 228
ATO 83 55 57 195
Pi Kapp 83 59 30 172
Pika 66 46 46 158
Sig Ep 83 13 40 136
Sigma Nu * * * *

THE DAVIDSON RIFLE TEAM: Front Row—Bob Barringer, Stan Gaines, Ronnie Lewis. Standing—is Sgt. McCurry, Coach. Don Harper. (Davidsonian Photo by Gene Wells)

Davidson’s swimmers place their 4-1 record on the line tomorrow against rugged V.P.I. in a crucial Southern Conference meet. “Of course, Citadel is the team to beat this year but I think that we can take them. By the time we swim them (February 27) we'll be in our best shape and our times will be way down. I've been really impressed by the way the boys have been working. They’ve got a lot of spirit.” Davidson should be at full strength against V.P.I. with the possible exception of co-captain Bill Hellier. Hellier, who has been in the infirmary with a virus this week, may or may not go against the Gobblers. The meet is scheduled for 2:00 p.m. After exams, the tankers return to the pool for a three-meet home stand against three visitors from Georgia. The University of Georgia on February 11, Georgia Tech on the 12th, and Emory on the 19th round out the Wildcats home schedule.

Bulldogs Edge Cat Wrestlers
By JIM PRESSLY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

CHARLESTON, S.C.—Davidson's wrestling team suffered its fourth straight loss yesterday, when The Citadel defeated them here 18-13. The Cats forfeited the 123-pound match for the fourth time this year. Butch LeDoyen, Cliff Thompson, and Alex Porter were Davidson’s only winners. Jim Alexander tied his match in the 157 lb. class. Tommy Brown was beaten. The State match began with Davidson forfeiting in the 137 lb. class. The next two weights were won by State on pins. Then Gee pinned his man. In the 147 lb. class, LeDoyen won 4-0. Alexander tied. Heavyweight Alex Porter then pinned his man. Jim Allen re-injured his shoulder in practice last week and will not wrestle again. However, Milton Gee returned to action last week, replacing Newt Burns in the line-up. Gee wrestled well, pinning his opponent. Coach Parker described the loss to N.C. State as “our worst match in several years.” The match ended with Davidson on the short end of a 23-10 score, giving the team a 0-3 record for the year. The three losses have been to ACC teams—Duke, Carolina, and N.C. State.

Post-exam action finds Davidson traveling to Emory on February 5th. The next home match will be with Wake Forest on February 10th. Coach Parker was optimistic about these matches, saying that “both of them are not too strong and we should take them.” The line-up of the Cats boasts four sophomores, an indication of strength in years to come. Butch LeDoyen, Buddy Brauch, Tommy Brown, and Jim Alexander will form the nucleus of the Cat mat squad for the next two years, and junior Cliff Thompson will return next year. Milton Gee and Alec Porter will be lost by graduation. These two men have been almost consistent winners in past years, and their loss will leave a big gap in the Davidson line-up.

Riflers Host Citadel

The Davidson Rifle team will meet The Citadel and non-conference opponent Wake Forest at 9:00 A.M., Saturday morning. The match will be Southern Conference against The Citadel. Sgt. McCurry, rifle team coach, said, “The Citadel is very good—the best in the Southern Conference. Last year The Citadel was the champion. We lost to them earlier in the season, 1411-1346. We had a bad day, though. Their best shooters are Wells, Russo, and O'Mara.” Davidson’s Southern Conference record is 0-2, but 4-3 overall. Davidson is currently leading the West Carolina ROTC Conference, which includes Davidson, Wofford, Presbyterian College, and Furman with a 4-1 record. The Wildcats’ leading shooters this year are Capt. Stan Gaines, Don Harper, and Co-Captain Joe Wearn.

Salem refreshes your taste each puff to give you a softer, fresher, even more flavorful smoke.