FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

SIDE LINES IN SPORTS
By B. MILLNER

THE FACULTY finally made itself clear on the inactive eligibility question in a written recommendation to the IMAC last Wednesday. The faculty athletic committee presented its resolution to the general faculty and it was passed in the April 5 meeting. The resolution, briefly, advises that inactive fraternity members should be allowed to participate on the teams in the Intramural Athletic league. The faculty admonished the IMAC to “act as you see fit” on the question.

IN THEIR scheduled meeting Wednesday night, the IMAC voted to re-affirm their first ruling, which declared inactives ineligible for the spring sports of basketball and handball. President Tyree Finch, however, stated that the IMAC has taken positive action on the faculty recommendation, which has been turned over to the Rules and Regulations committee for study. The IMAC will take definite action on April 20, at their next scheduled meeting. He emphasized that his group was treating the faculty’s advice with careful consideration and respect. Finch said that the IMAC would probably end up taking the following action:
1. Inactive fraternity members will be eligible to play on the Independent teams only after waiting out a full semester of ineligibility. This provision will go into effect at the beginning of the fall semester this year.
2. The ruling that is now in effect will remain binding until the end of this semester.

WE AGREE with the IMAC in its decision to stand firm on their present ruling until the end of the semester. This is a young organization—only in its second year of operation. It has yet to gain the respect of the students—even those interested in athletics—as an important administrative body. But its operation is essential to an organized intramural program. If it backs down now, its decisions will always be thought of as the products of a vacillating, indecisive group and it will have no firm control of the program.

* * * * * *

THE BIG QUESTION—who will be Davidson's basketball coach next year—may be answered in the next week or two. Out of nearly 40 applicants, the faculty athletic committee, composed of Tom Scott, Dr. Johnston, Dr. McCutchan, Dr. McGavock, and President Martin, has screened out five for final consideration. These five names are now in the hands of the president and will be turned over to the trustee Athletic Council. And who are the big five? Your guess is as good as mine—the administration ain’t talkin’.

LAST ROUND-UP—Chucking the editorial “we” for a while, I've enjoyed writing sports for you. I would like to thank the guys who did all the work—Bill Godwin, Jim Pressly, D. G. Martin, Mel McKenzie, Steve Clark, Aubrey Lancaster, and Bill Thompson—the writers. A big vote of appreciation goes to Gene Wells, a talented, dependable photographer. Bill Godwin, a seasoned pro, will take over the reins next week and inherit the late hours, the disgust, the often barren imagination, the tedium, and the pure pleasure of being a sports editor. I appreciate your confidence, your advice, your criticism, and more than anything, your reading.

Powerful UNC Blanks Young Racqueteers
By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Early last month Davidson's netters were looking forward to three matches—with The Citadel, M.I.T. and N.C. State—because these promised to be the ones which could make the difference between a winning and a losing season. The first two matches have come and gone. The Citadel, here March 25, outlasted the Cats, 6-3. The M.I.T. match, which Coach Keesler says was “the real test,” produced a second Wildcat loss, 7-2.

HE MEANS IT
So when Keesler talks about the Wolfpack who play here tomorrow and says “that’s one match we're counting on winning,” you know he means it. Davidson had a 3-5 record going into the Wofford scrap here today. Victories over the Terriers and the Wolfpack would put the Cats where they want to be (or where they have to be) with a rough and tight wind-up schedule ahead of them.

FROM ONE FRONT
State succumbed to the Wildcats last spring. Davidson's early season efforts were: Pfeiffer, 6-0; George Washington, 3-6; Presbyterian, 0-9; Mercer, 9-0; and Richmond, 6-3. The road ahead looks rough.

MIAMI HERE
Biggest attraction is next Friday. Miami netters, tops in the South, will be here. Other matches are with Wake Forest Monday in Winston-Salem, Duke here the 19th, U.N.C. here the 22nd, and William and Mary away on May 4. The Southern Conference meet is scheduled for May 5, 6.

Coach Keesler, like most Davidson coaches, has worked up a schedule with the better teams. Don’t be too disappointed then if the season record slants downhill.

PITCHER-SLUGGER Dee Green takes a healthy cut but fouls off a pitch while at bat against Hampden-Sydney. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells)

Phi’s Nip Betas, SAE’s In Soggy Track Finals
The Phi Delts, with 29½ points, won the much postponed, rainy finals of the interfraternity track meet this past Monday afternoon. The Betas scored 25 points to finish a close second. The favored Kappa Sigs, competing without ace sprinters Charlie Stokes and Bob Cordie, who were out with injuries, had 23 points and took third. The SAEs, with 12½ points, finished fourth.

The events were hampered by rain and mud. SAE Olin Nisbit won the 100 on the slow track and Bob Martin of the Betas with 63 points.

Thinclads Battle Tough High Point
By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson track team plays host to a very fine High Point College team this afternoon. Coach Heath Whittle stated that he was expecting an excellent meet, and went on to point out a few of High Point's strong events.

Golfers Clash With Tough U.N.C. Today
This afternoon the Davidson College golf team faced the strong University of North Carolina squad at the Charlotte Country Club. Paced by Bob Galloway and team, the U.N.C. team already owns one victory over the Wildcats by a margin of 24½ - 2½ on March 25. Earlier this week Coach Tom Scott’s charges placed third in the Greenbriar Tournament played at White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia. Playing in a steady downpour, the team turned in a composite score of 968 to place behind Ohio State and Michigan.the two-mile run, and the pole vault. This overall strength paid off for the High Point cindermen when they whipped Wake Forest, with ten first places.

FURMAN HERE

Then, on Wednesday, April 13, the Wildcats will meet a powerful Furman team here. Coach Whittle described the Paladins as a "well-balanced, powerful team, and a definite contender for the Southern Conference Championship this year.” He added that “our chances against Furman are with 949 and Washington and Lee with 963." But Davidson placed well ahead of the University of Virginia (974), George Washington (980), Colgate, West Virginia, and Dennison. Verner Stanley led the locals. Said Coach Tom Scott, “We are undefeated thus far, but, of course, have had only two meets, in which they defeated Catawba and Wake Forest, two schools which do not emphasize track. However, the results of these two meets point out a few of his mainstays, which include the following: Ed Kizer, a good 100-yard and 220-yard dash man; est, 78-60, as they went home.

In one other match this week, with a time of 11.4 seconds, Dick Eberhardt of the KA’s was second. Phi Delts Wyche Fowler and Jerry Bussell took first and second, respectively, in the three-quarter mile run. The winning time was 3:43.9. Pat Currie of the Kappa Sigs won the 120-yard low hurdles with a 14.4, Ken Kelley of the Phi Delts took second. KA John Sharpe's 54.6 in the 440 was enough to cop that event. Jim Hendrix of the Kappa Sigs was second. Independent Fred Fleagle won the discus with a throw of 117’ 5¾". Scott Lacy of the Phi Delts took second place.

The shot-put was won by a 40’ 7” heave. Phi Gam Jim Smith and Phi Delt Lacy tied for second. Bob Marshall of the Phi Delts took the 660 with a time of 1:34. Ben McCoy of the ATOs was second. Kappa Sig Pat Currie won his second first place of the afternoon by taking the 220 with a 24.4 time. Tommy Hamilton of the Betas was second. Tom Hamilton’s record leap of 21' 4" in the broad jump in the trials two months ago was more than enough to give him first in that event. Bob Cordle, who also competed only in the trials, took second place. Keith Fraser of the Pikas and Jerry Bussell of the Phi Delts tied for first in the high jump at 5’ 8”. In the 880 relay, the Kappa Sigs were first, the Phi Delts second, the Betas third, and the SAEs fourth. Kappa Sig Pat Currie, with his first in the hurdles and the 220-yard dash, and Beta Tommy Hamilton, with his first in the broad jump, second in the 220, and third in the 100, tied for high individual scoring honors with 10 points each.

Finishing behind the first teams in total points were 5th, KA (8 points); 6th, ATO (6 points); 7th, Phi Gam (5 points); 8th, Independents (4 points); 9th, Pika (4 points); 10th, Pi Kapp (2 points); 11th (tie)—SPE, Sigma Chi, and Sigma Nu (0 points).

Struggling Davidson's varsity baseball team, which stroked the win column for the first time this week, will stay at home this weekend for games with Oberlin College and William and Mary. Oberlin, meeting the Wildcats this afternoon, will engage them again tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. William and Mary arrives Monday for a doubleheader. Information on Oberlin was scarce around the athletic department this week, but Coach Tom Stevens said the team is in “about the same class we are—no scholarship help.” Oberlin holds a win over Belmont Abbey, 15-8. Presbyterian College broke the Wildcat losing streak—six straight—on Wednesday. Davidson's Dee Green held the hosts to half a dozen hits, five of them after the sixth inning. Green, pitching the entire game, got batting help to the tune of five in the first inning as the Wildcats romped, 9-2. Leading batsmen for Davidson were leftfielder Ed Hines and rightfielder Harry Cline, both of whom collected a pair of hits and RBIs. For the Oberlin game today, Stevens was planning to start sophomore southpaw Nick Daves on the mound. Another sophomore, Graham Showalter, a hard-throwing righthander, will probably pitch tomorrow. Said Stevens, “Showalter is doing a real good job. Nick Daves hasn't pitched a full game, but he’s looked all right. They just haven't pitched much—it'll come with experience.”

Monday's opponent, W & M, has improved this season. Davidson, having suffered four losses by only one run (Georgia Southern), has met but one Southern Conference team, Richmond, and lost that game, 7-3. They have one good pitcher, according to Stevens. Last in the conference in 1959, the Indians have improved this season.

Tomorrow's line-up is as follows: Don Killian, shortstop; Russ Cotton, third base; Allan Millar, centerfield; John Harris, first base; Ed Hines, leftfield; Harry Cline, rightfield; Harry Smith, second base; Jerry Cole, catcher, and Graham Showalter, pitcher.

Davidson Walks Off With State Title In Rifle Tourney

The Davidson rifle team, paced by stellar performances from Stan Gaines and Don Harper, breezed to its second championship of the year in winning the North Carolina Invitational last week. The locals were first (with 3692 points) in a field of 10 ROTC squads from all over the state. The win gave Davidson the state championship. Wake Forest was second with 2367½ points, followed by the Carolina NROTC and State ROTC. Stan Gaines posted the second highest overall score and was first in the kneeling position. Harper was third overall and first in the prone position. The Davidson team, coached by Sgt. Jim McCurry, finished the season with a 22-10 overall record and an 8-1 record in the Western Carolina Conference. They had earlier won the Western Carolina tournament. The locals placed sixth in the Southern Conference meet which was held here in early March. Coach McCurry commented that his boys had made considerable improvement over last year and predicted a good year to come, in spite of the loss of Co-captain Joe Wearn, a consistent scorer. “We need to pick up some depth,” he said. “This year we only had about five men we could really depend on. There are three or four freshmen who might come through, though.”

AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT

MEET YOUR FRIENDS WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE

“Drink Coca-Cola”

“Anachronism? Not really. ‘Cause if Coke had been around back then, Caesar would have said ‘Coke, et tu?’—and Brutus would have answered, ‘Coke, of course!’”

“Be really refreshed”

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, N.C.