Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 1960
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Wanted: A Level

One must admit, we think, that the primary purpose of an educational institution is academic. But there are several activities
which draw on the student’s time and make it difficult for him to meet the academic challenge. We do not
question the possible good that is derived from these activities, but we should look at the amount of emphasis the
college places on the various phases of student life. The big and perennial question that faces us then is the
relationship of athletics to the academic, and the relative amount of interest that is placed on these.

An easy way to judge this comparison is to look at the amounts of money that are spent on each;
we take as a reference the Living Endowment Fund, raised year by year. Our figures show that a total of
$88,250 goes to 220 academic scholarship holders, which averages about $400 per man. On the other hand, 64 athletes receive
$60,365, about $940 apiece. The 49 of these students who hold football scholarships average over $1,000.

These figures themselves are almost frightening. But let us go on to compare the methods by which the scholarships are
awarded and kept. Academic scholarship applicants must meet rigid requirements, and must take tests and interviews administered by the scholarship
committee. If a man is lucky enough to receive such a scholarship, he must continue to exhibit the standards upon
which he was awarded the scholarship. If his grades fall below a certain average, his scholarship is withdrawn.

Balance

The man, on the other hand, who holds a football scholarship received it on comparatively vague criteria. In some cases,
a football scholarship is awarded without any officials ever having seen the boy play. Once an athlete receives his scholarship,
he has no more worries. It is virtually impossible to withdraw an athletic grant: some boys sit on the bench
for four years, but the money continues to flow. With the tremendous outlay of money, we manage only to eke
out winning seasons, and occasionally don’t do even that. It is clear that we are on a slippery middle ground;
we subsidize enough to be able to “compete” in the Southern Conference, but not enough to make it worthwhile. An
increase in the subsidization program would throw the ledger even more out of balance. But to decrease the amount a
few thousand dollars would be disastrous.

We would like to see an admission that we just cannot compete successfully in Southern Conference football. We would like
to see the athletic percentage of Living Endowment Fund lowered to the point where it would cover, say, twelve full
basketball scholarships — approximately $16,000. What of the $45,000 remaining in the present athletic scholarship chunk? Put it into academic
scholarships. Such a system, we think, would make for a more equitable apportionment. The college would be putting respectable emphasis
on the academic side of college life, where it should be in the first place.

Exception Or Norm?

With all the rumblings going around about how fraternities should justify themselves, we are glad to see that one group
has taken the talk to heart and is making such an effort. The ATOs' “Queens - Davidson Olympics” seems to
be a good thing. The proceeds will go to charity and besides that, the more sadistic members of the student
body will have an opportunity to chuckle condescendingly as the members of the weaker sex go through their athletic antics.
The dance afterwards should also be good since Loonis McGlohon, the leading jazz exponent in this part of the country,
is furnishing the music.

But even more important than the enjoyment factor, in our opinion, is the example that this sets for the other
fraternities. It is an example of the many ways in which a fraternity can benefit the community, to become a
little more than a group that has parties. We suspect that if the fraternities made such practices the norm instead
of the exception that there wouldn't be so many people running around finding faults with the system and trying to
change it. Student support for this project will be an indication to the powers that be that students are interested
in this sort of project and that fraternities do have other purposes than just to provide social life. And besides
this, if you come you'll probably have a heck of a good time. That is, unless you win the Ugly
Man Contest.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C. under Act

THE STUDENT SOLDIER: Compulsory ROTC... Off Again, On Again?

Editor’s note: This article is the first of a four-part series concerning military training at Davidson College.

By ERVIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Compulsory military training—coming under fire across the nation now—is an old issue at Davidson College. For years since the establishment
of Davidson's ROTC branch in 1919, controversy has existed concerning the place of “war preparation” in a Christian college.

GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS

Davidson College catalogues from 1919 until 1934 stated that all students would be required to take two years of basic
ROTC. “Completion of the basic course shall... be a prerequisite for graduation,” said the catalogue rule. But in the middle
thirties a wave of pacifist sentiment swept the country and Davidson’s military requirements came in for heavy criticism.

“DRILL, SHOOT AND STAB”

In September 1933 the Greensboro News scored Davidson's trustees on the issue. “We have never been able to understand,” said
the News, “how or why a church-controlled institution, presumably founded upon Christian philosophy in which life is held sacred, peacemakers
are hailed as the children of God, and brotherly love is proclaimed as a supreme tenet, should teach Bible or
hold chapel one hour and send its youth out, under compulsion, to learn how to march, drill, shoot, and stab
the next.”

STUDENTS CRITICIZE POLICY

A student letter of 1933 attacked compulsory training as “wholly unethical and unChristian,” in a long protest published in the
DAVIDSONIAN. “There is a ghastly irony in this Davidson scene,” said the students. “At 10:15 a.m. we are compelled to
worship the God of Love and the Prince of Peace; at 3:05 p.m. we are compelled, with rifles on our
shoulders, to study the art of mass murder.”

RULE CHANGED

Davidson's Board of Trustees met to consider the issue on February 21, 1934. At this meeting the trustees modified the
rule to permit students with parental permission to forego military training. Newspapers across the state praised the trustee action. Said
the Charlotte Observer: “Davidson has made admirable disposition of the issue by leaving the gate open for future students to
step aside if they elect not to engage in this definition of physical education... If this training invests the mind
of youthhood with the instincts of war, it is unwholesome.”

MORE CHANGES COME

From the early, strict requirement of basic ROTC as a “prerequisite for graduation,” the college moved to a more liberal
policy enabling students to avoid ROTC; this policy gradually tightened. Later editions of the Davidson catalogue specify that students’ parents
may object only for “reasons approved by the college authorities.”

1960: IT’S TOUGHER

The 1959-60 college catalogue shows another change, apparently making it tougher to avoid the basic ROTC course: the new catalogue
states that students may be excused “who are conscientious objectors, as based on religious training or affiliation, as certified by
parents and approved by college authorities.” The 1959-60 wording may be just a clarification of the older ruling concerning parental
consent; at any rate it appears harder now to avoid compulsory training. This year and in the past few years
all freshmen and sophomores have taken the basic ROTC course except those physically disabled or those having previous military experience.

THE HAWK’S NEST
Supports Plan For TV Debate
By JACK TAYLORKnights ........... by Cole

THE “NEW” ELECTIONS ORDER: Council Proposes Amendment Files Show Passage Last Year

Davidson's Student Council this morning proposed to amend the Student Body Constitution—with an amendment passed last March. A check of
DAVIDSONIAN files today turned up the following report, dated March 6, 1959:

“Also voted on and approved Tuesday were two amendments to the Student Body Constitution, the effect of which will be
to modify the plan of voting in spring elections and to remove two offices from student elections completely.

“The first amendment changes Section 4 of the By-Laws to read: ‘There shall be five phases in Student Body elections:
(1) Student body officers, (2) Honor Court, (3) Class presidents, (4) Freshman adviser, YMCA, Publications, (5) Student Body Representatives.’

“The other amendment added the following to the By-laws as Section 6: ‘Athletic council representatives and head cheerleader will be
appointed by the student council within 15 days of student body elections.’

“These amendments took effect immediately and the remainder of spring elections will be conducted according to the new plan,” said
the DAVIDSONIAN report.

Today Council President Dee Green professed no knowledge of last year's changes. “We didn’t block class president's elections and adviser
election in a group.” Staff members offered to show him the DAVIDSONIAN report. “I want to see that,” he said.

Last year a student committee under President John Kuykendall prepared the amendment which was passed last spring. After a series
of meetings the group proposed the block-election system and it was accepted with minor revisions by the student council. Green
served on the 1958-59 council as Junior Class president.

Today's proposal grouped student representative elections in the same block; otherwise, the proposal is identical to the changes of last
year.

Miller Hits Policy On Athletic Grants

Dear Editor:

President Martin’s stand on the necessity of subsidizing athletes who need no financial assistance raises several questions in my mind.

The first is the question of why it is necessary for Davidson to compete athletically, and therefore financially, with institutions
with five and six times its enrollment. As Davidson’s record in the major sports over recent years has shown, this
competition, in spite of subsidization, is an unrealistic and unnecessary effort. Even if we do concede the necessity of paying
boys to represent Davidson athletically, why don't we likewise pay them to represent her academically? Why do we pay an
athlete to win his allegiance, but give money to scholarship winners only when their parents are almost destitute?

I am sure that the Admissions and Scholarship Committees are aware of the many boys offered “honorary” scholarships to Davidson
who have turned them down for other universities and colleges who offered them money as well as honor. If we
wish to call Davidson an “educational institution,” as President Martin does, shouldn't we spend a little more money on students
who can justify the name?

Bob Miller

Adlai Stevenson's suggestion of a great televised political debate between the presidential nominees seems to be the most practical solution
to the nagging problem of how to “take some of the waste and foolishness out of our election campaigns.” The
traditional method of campaigning, that of barnstorming the country, has failed as a means of bringing the issues and the
candidates before the electorate. The candidate is heard by only a small segment of the voting population, and his speeches
are often limited to questions of strictly local interest, such as the boll weevil, the fruit fly, or the dairy
tick.

In the traditional barnstorming tour, the presidential candidate’s campaign is often reduced to the level of a carnival sideshow in
which popular stunts become more important than the great issues facing the nation. An Indian chief's bonnet and a kissed
baby certainly are not criteria to judge a candidate for the most important executive office in the world.

A political debate between the presidential nominees, carried by television into each voter's living room, would eliminate most of the
limitations inherent in the barnstorming campaign. Practically every voter has access to a TV set. The issues considered would necessarily
be of national interest. Such a debate would focus the emphasis upon the men and their abilities, and would add
the dignity which such a campaign deserves.

Why, then, haven't the political parties themselves adopted this method? For one simple reason—cost. Each half-hour of television time costs
the sponsor something like $70,000. If the cost problem could be resolved, the parties would gladly adopt Mr. Stevenson's recommendation.
It is not realistic to hope that the networks would be happy to donate the time. Nor does it seem
likely that the party coffers could fully cover the costs of an adequate debate program, which must run at least
an hour a week for eight to ten weeks.

The answer seems to lie with the national government, which could provide the necessary funds from the public coffers. The
money would hardly be better spent buying tractors and latrines for Peruvian Indians. And, after all, presidential campaigns come only
once every four years.

TOIL AND TROUBLE: Some Frat Members Do Show Maturity

BY JOHN STONE

In the recent attack on the Davidson fraternity, the level of the argument could be improved if the issue were
better defined. There are those who do not care a whit about fraternities, and unfortunately many of this group are
fraternity men. The challenge to fraternities lies here, and, as is often the case, the problem is with individuals, not
with a system. If fraternity men would consistently conduct themselves as true fraternity men, the evils in the system would
disappear and who can deny that improvement is being honestly attempted by those who have tasted the sweetness of brotherhood
based on the right of social selection in a condition of sovereign equality? This is the group which justifies the
existence and continuance of fraternities, without some of the more stupid trappings. These men—and they are there, I know many
of them—are the products of the system as it is now and as it has been. They have devoted themselves
selflessly to the principles of their fraternities, and the reward is in sight. The reward is the molding and shaping
of men who are given in fraternity the chance to develop the talents of leadership, service, and self-realization. This is
undeniable only by those who close their eyes to the facts.

The charge has been made that fraternities corrupt. However, I have found, and have tried to foster, allegiance to moral
standards. The fact is that the moral standard of the individual is acquired long before he comes to college, and
if a man will be corrupted, he will be corrupted.

Another charge is that fraternities discourage extra-curricular activities. This is ludicrous. A great part of a fraternity’s external value is
its men in high places. One wonders whether the reason for the weakness in extra-curricular activities could be that the
activities themselves are not worthy of participation.

The charge of discouraging school spirit may be a revelation of the frustrations of the accusers. It is, after all,
difficult to cheer a habitually losing team.

One final charge is “infantile brutality.” If this is true, there is no defense. Hell week is the supreme manifestation
of this. Hell week is regressive and stupid; that is why it has been abolished. What has taken its place
may not yet represent the heights of maturity, but it can; it is a proven fact that constructive pre-initiation activities
build unity and loyalty. The system can improve; it has demonstrated its willingness to do so. If it is not
compelled to spend its energies fighting for its life, it will continue to do so.
