THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1960 ©

A LOOK AT... SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

Our congratulations to fore-runner B. Millner, who overcame his handicap as sports editor and remains our boss.

William and Mary has what must be the shortest college baseball team in the South. It’s enough to make one
sympathize with Dee Green, who hurled 14 innings against the Indians Monday. Short players (there were at least five of
them) are normally the pitcher’s curse. They're the guys who draw the walks and score the runs. But the righthander
was at his best this week, allowing only eight hits in two games.

Coach Stevens’ main worry during the long afternoon was not the Indians, but the Davidson papooses who station themselves beyond
the outfield fence and grab up the stray baseballs that come their way. New baseballs. Money. The Wildcats, notorious for
occasional shoddy fielding, sometimes can’t handle the ball on the playing field. But past the fence—have a heart. Luckily, Stevens
had his Little Leaguers at work on the extra theft load. These boys stick it out all season long. All
they ask in return is a cracked bat or worn-out baseball from time to time.

BY LEAPS AND BOUNDS—John Huie, Davidson senior, is captured by photographer Gene Wells in the middle of a high jump
during Wednesday's meet.

Already, Southern Conference coaches are endorsing The Citadel for the loop championship. Two outstanding righthanders—Dick Almes and Ed Colby—rate the
Cadets up front. But George Washington, defending last year’s first place finish (7-2), may have something to say about that.
The Citadel comes last on the Davidson schedule.

Neither team showed any mercy for William and Mary over the weekend. Almes and Colby set the Indians down 5-0
and 3-1 on Friday and Saturday. Davidson, in a hot batting streak and not to be outdone, pinned two more
losses on the Indians 7-3 and 7-6.

The loss to Furman left the Wildcats with an overall won-lost record of 3-1, and a conference record of 0-1.
However, Coach Heath Whittle expects to even the conference mark when the ‘Cats go to Richmond this coming Thursday. Whittle
didn't know much about the Spiders’ record this year, but said that “they have the same type team as we
have.” He went on to point out that they will be stronger in certain events, but that we will definitely
be the strongest in many events—which all goes to make up what should be a very interesting meet.

A Prediction... By STEVE CLARK Davidsonian Sports Writer

The varsity and freshman track teams of Furman University defeated the Davidson College teams here Wednesday afternoon in an exciting
meet that saw three school records fall. Next stop for the Wildcats is Richmond, next Thursday.

In the varsity contest, powerful Furman lived up to its pre-meet billing as a definite contender for Southern Conference laurels
this spring by downing a scrappy Wildcat team, 76½ to 63½. The Paladins took ten first places to Davidson’s six.
George Washington’s Jim Tarr, Jim Whitehead and company silenced the Virginia Cavaliers early this week in tennis 6-3. The Charlottesville
university can’t seem to do anything right, sportswise.

Davidson Takes On W. Virginia Here Tomorrow
By JIM PRESSLY Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's high-riding baseball team takes a five-game winning streak and a 2-1 Southern Conference record into Saturday's loop contest here
with West Virginia. Coach Tom Stevens commented this week that the Mountaineers have “one real good left-hander” (Paul Chuma) and
a pretty good club. Game time is 1:30 p.m.

Monday, the Wildcats took a doubleheader from William and Mary 7-3, 7-6, behind the iron-man pitching of righthander Dee Green.
Green went the route in both games, allowing a total of only eight hits. This is the second time in
as many years that Green has won a twinbill from the Indians. The 1959 double victory amounted to exactly half
of Davidson’s four wins. The Wildcats now hold a 5-6 record.

In the initial contest Davidson garnered eight hits, with Green and Allan Millar collecting two apiece. In the second game
(both seven innings), Harry Cline was the big stick man with a triple and a home run. His circuit blow
came in the last inning and closed the gap to 6-5 in favor of W & M. Then Richmond “Rat”
Rucker, scrapping second baseman, singled. Cecil Holcomb pinch hit for Jerry Cole and both men were safe on a fielder’s
choice. Pitcher Green sacrificed the runners to second and third. Rucker scored on a wild pitch to tie the score
at six-all, Holcomb advancing to third. Finally, shortstop Don Killian executed a squeeze bunt which sent Holcomb home with the
winning run.

Coach Stevens had much praise for his sophomores—especially his outfielders. “Our sophomores have been doing a good job,” he said,
“and we can have a good team if our defense improves." Outfielders Ed Hines and Harry Cline are leading the
Wildcats at the plate with averages of .389 and .359 respectively. Cline heads the team in runs batted in with
16; Hines has 11. Both are sophomores. Dee Green is hitting at a .304 clip and Allan Millar is batting
an even .300. First-sacker Tom Harris sports a .297 mark. Killian (.268) and Russ Cotton (.250) are the other regulars
hitting above .250. Green leads ’Cat hurlers with three victories. Sophomores Nick Daves and Jerry Shelton share the other two.
All averages are correct through Monday's games.

Outfielder Lou Jones reinjured his ankle during Monday's action and may be grounded for some time. Remembering Lou's hitting as
a freshman, the varsity certainly can use him if his ankle responds to treatment.

West Virginia played its first conference game this afternoon at Furman. The Mountaineers’ star southpaw—Chuma—is the only standout among five
lettermen. The entire infield is made up of sophomores. Chuma in 1959 won eight games while losing only two. His
earned run average was 1.15. West Virginia finished fifth in the conference with a 16-9 record.

BULLETIN
The Hurricanes of Miami University, undefeated in 64 straight tennis meets, saw their record stand firm here this afternoon as
they skunked the Wildcats, 9-0. Miami ranks number one in the South.

... And A Debate
There was some discussion Wednesday about a dead-heat finish in the Davidson-Furman track meet. In the 220-yard dash the Wildcats’
Ed Kizer and Furman’s entry made the most of a leg battle all the way to the final string. If
you will observe the lower photograph on this page, you may be able to see the imprint of the string
on Kizer’s arm. It looks as if Kizer is ahead. But the string also touches Furman’s man—on the chest—and hewon.
Furman athletes captured eight first places, while the ‘Cats nabbed five. There was also a tie for first in the
pole vault. Since Furman was a heavy favorite, everyone on hand seemed well pleased with the Wildcats’ fine showing. A
few of the Davidson men who put on outstanding exhibitions are as follows: Ed Kizer, who finished second in the
220-yard dash with a time of 22.8 seconds, and was runner-up in the 100-yard dash; Stuart Nickles, who set a
new school record by hurling the javelin 196’ 1” and grabbing first place in that event; John Huie, who tied
for first in the pole vault by setting a school record of 12’ 4”, and who finished second in the
high jump. Furman’s two-mile relay team is currently ranked seventh in the nation, according to the latest NCAA statistics. Team
members Bobby Lloyd, Charlie Phillips, Thad Talley, and Jim Martin set a 7:47.6 mark recently in the Florida relays. Drake,
Kentucky, and Kansas State are the top three two-milers. Michigan is eighth and LSU ninth behind the Furman team.

The Miami Hurricanes, here today for a tennis tangle with the Wildcats, were going after their 65th straight win. Anybody
wanna bet they didn’t make it?

SOFTBALL, TENNIS NEXT

ATO’s Win Volleyball Title With 12-0 Mark

The ATO’s added the finishing touches to a perfect volleyball season yesterday with a victory over the Sig Eps. The
champions compiled a 12-0 record. Final standings showed the Kappa Sigs, the SAE’s, the Betas, and the Pi Kapps deadlocked
for sixth place with 6-6 marks, the Sigma Nus eighth (5-7), the Kappa Sigs, the Sig Eps, and the Independents
ninth (3-9), and the Pikas and the Phi Gams twelfth (1-11).

Softball action starts Tuesday. And Wednesday should see tennis getting underway. These two sports will complete this year’s LF competition.
The Phi Delts, who retired the LF trophy in 1959 after a three-year championship reign, finished second to the ATO’s
in volleyball with a 10-2 mark. In a three-way tie for third place are the Sigma Chis, the KA’s, and
the SAE’s, each managing a 9-3 record.

Six sets ended the roundball action yesterday. In addition to the ATO tilt, the Sigma Chis whipped the KA’s, the
SAE’s downed the Kappa Sigs, the Betas tamed the Phi Gams, the Independents lost to the Sigma Nus, and the
Pi Kapps took the Pikas.

Monday—the ATO’s defeated the SAE’s, the Sigma Nus clipped the Sig Eps, the Independents took the Pikas, the Pi Kapps
beat the Betas, the Sigma Chis downed the Phi Gams, and the Phi Delts won out over the KA’s. Also,
the Sigma Nus ripped the Kappa Sigs, the Pikas lost to the SAE’s, the Betas whipped the Sig Eps, the
Sigma Chis dunked the Independents, the Phi Delts clobbered the Pi Kapps, and the KA’s took a win from the
Phi Gams.

Tuesday—the ATO’s stomped the Pikas, the Betas topped the Kappa Sigs, the SAE’s silenced the Sigma Chis, the Phi Delts
laid it to the Sig Eps, the KA’s sank the Independents, and the Pi Kapps beat the Phi Gams. Also,
the Sigma Nus romped over the Betas, the ATO’s defeated the Sigma Chis, the Kappa Sigs fell before the Phi
Delts, the KA’s whipped the Pikas, the Sigma Nus clouted the Phi Gams, the Pi Kapps were victims of the
ATO’s, the Kappa Sigs beat the Independents, and the SAE’s routed the Sig Eps.

Wednesday—the Sigma Chis won over the Pikas, the Phi Delts clipped the Sigma Nus, the ATO’s ran over the KA’s,
the Phi Gams succumbed to the Kappa Sigs, the SAE’s felled the Pi Kapps, and the Independents took the Sig
Eps. Also, the Betas blasted the Phi Delts, the KA’s trounced the Pikas, the Sigma Nus clouted the Phi Gams,
the Pi Kapps were victims of the ATO’s, the Kappa Sigs beat the Independents, and the SAE’s routed the Sig
Eps.

PAINFUL FINISH—In the 220-yard dash, Furman’s entry grimaces as he clips the string. His opponent—Davidson's Ed Kizer—appears more relaxed. However,
Kizer lost the 220, finishing second in the 100-yard dash. (Photo by Wells).

Furman Golfers Strike ’Cats Today, Monday

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

This afternoon the Davidson golf team faced the Furman golfers in Greenville, South Carolina. The Wildcats will meet the usually-strong
Furman team again on Monday in Charlotte. Coach Scott also stated that he expected varsity golfing fortunes to rise since
“this warm weather has let us get in some practice and cut down on scores.” After their encounters with Furman,
the ‘Cats will meet the Citadel team at Mid-Pines on April 23. A return engagement with Wake Forest in Charlotte
on April 26 will be the Wildcats’ only other match before the Conference Tournament on May 2 in Mid-Pines.

Netters Meet Duke Here Tuesday; Wildcat Rackets Rattle Deacons

By MEL McKENZIE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Duke Blue Devils, who challenge Davidson’s netters here Tuesday, will “wage a tough match,” said Davidson Coach Ted Keesler
this week. The Wildcats wrought a 6-3 victory over Wake Forest Monday and were scheduled to play Miami, ranked number
one in the South, here this afternoon. On Duke, Keesler said, “They have that necessary depth. They’re good down to
the number six position. Their number one man is only a sophomore and he took that position from a man
who'd held it for two years.”

SLOW START

Monday, after a slow start, Davidson out-swatted Wake Forest. Finley Lee in the number one position dropped his singles. Doug
Orr went down under the toughest of competition, the Deacs’ Bill Cullen. Then senior Harry Broome came through with a
5-7, 6-0, 6-1 match. Southpaw Andy Sherrill tied the score at two-all with a winning match. Jim Hamilton, number five,
and Stephan Young, number six, drew victories. Lee and Orr dropped the first doubles match to Cullen and Jim Duffy.
But Broome and Sherrill, Young and Bobby Snead snatched the last two doubles and copped the matches for Davidson.

After Duke comes the University of North Carolina, next Friday. This will be the Wildcats’ second shot at the Tarheels
this season. Earlier, Davidson was skunked in Chapel Hill, 9-0. On May 4 the netters travel to William and Mary
for a match. They remain in Williamsburg, Va., for the Southern Conference tournament, May 5, 6, and 7. Defending champion
is George Washington. Davidson finished second in 1959.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for PIZZA at the famous OPEN KITCHEN, 1318 W. Morehead, Charlotte,
N. C.

BERMUDA SHORTS
Chino & Cords ...... 4.95
Dacron & Cotton Plaids ... $5.95—$8.95
India Madras ...... $9.95
Rush Wilson, Ltd.
