Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1960

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Our Policy 1959 - 1960: Toward A Better Davidson

It is the policy of the DAVIDSONIAN to present a summary of editorial policy at the end of each editorship.
This usually occurs in the spring after the annual elections, but this year, due to the early graduation of the
editor, we will set down here the things that the DAVIDSONIAN has proposed and opposed since last April. Our policy
has not been directed toward the end of gaining overwhelming majority favor by telling the administration, faculty, or student body
the things they necessarily wanted to hear. We have certainly not followed a policy of fence straddling; our position is,
and has been, definite. Our main end has been that of making Davidson a better college. We have offered both
immediate proposals and suggestions of what seems to be long-range importance.

STUDENT GOVERNMENT

In the realm of student government, we have supported the Student Council and Honor Court as separate bodies. While it
was our wish that the Court would not have to meet, we suggested that the Student Council initiate action to
alleviate basic, on-the-surface problems. It was our opinion that well-publicized meetings should be held in the Union Ballroom to foster
student discussion. Last spring the gymnasium facilities were made available to students on Sunday afternoon due to the efforts of
the DAVIDSONIAN in an area that needed action. We supported and publicized what we hoped would be the biggest and
best Homecoming ever in 1959. The newly organized Book-of-the-Semester program was another object of both news and editorial attention during
the past semester. It was hailed as a real opportunity to learn. In our Inauguration Special, we gave a vote
of student confidence to President Martin and hailed the trustees’ choice. We later echoed the hopes of Dr. Howard Lowry
that Davidson would be content to be “some things to some men,” that we would realize and fulfill our obligation
as a small liberal arts college and leave enrollment at the present maximum set by the trustees. It was our
proposal that there be a reconsideration, and in turn a revision, of the resoluteness of the penalties for Honor offenses.
We think that a possible reinstatement after two years’ suspension would be entirely in keeping with the Christian role of
the College. This proposal is now in faculty and may be realized in the near future. The after-dance party pledge
was opposed as doing more harm than good. We urged the acceptance of the pledge offered to the faculty by
President Green on behalf of the fraternity committee and the IFC. Also, we expressed a desire that Senator Sam Ervin’s
visit to Patterson Fraternity Court could serve as a precedent for other future guests, possibly as a supplement to the
Great Issues series.

ADMISSIONS AND CUT POLICY

Our most concrete proposals have come in the field of admissions policy and class cuts, the former being of more
importance to the school, the latter holding greater student interest. To silence many of the critics of our admissions program,
we made four definite proposals: (1) Presidential appointment of the Admissions Committee, (2) Personal interviews, (3) Early decisions on outstanding
students, (4) Higher evaluation of past ties with the College. We feel that these four proposals could help alleviate a
situation which has given rise to too many criticisms. The liberalized cut policy we have proposed is a moderate one,
but one in the right direction—toward greater student maturity. The policy we advocate will allocate cuts on the basis of
a student’s past academic performance: freshmen and sophomores with a 2.00 average for the previous semester, juniors and seniors with
a 1.00 average for the previous semester be given the privilege and responsibility of optional class attendance. Students cutting the
last day before or the first day after a holiday would lose cut privileges for thirty days, unless excused by
the Dean’s office to work. We proposed no changes in ROTC, physical education, Vespers, chapel, laboratories, seminars, and discussion groups.
We gained the approval of the Dean of Faculty in our crusade for a more mature cut system; unfortunately, we
have not, as yet, gained any favorable action from the faculty.

POLITICS

Because we believe that it is vital for college students to be well informed on political affairs, we have not
limited our comments to the campus. We have been much concerned with the imbalance of labor-management relations. We have opposed
the inflation brought about by featherbedding, and the Michigan stereotype “welfare state.” Corrupt labor leaders, such as Jimmy Hoffa and
Boyd Payton, have been the objects of our pleas, that the barrel of organized labor be purged of the rotten
apples that threaten to spoil the whole movement. We have agreed with two presidents and the past five successive Houses
of Congress in opposing the admittance of Red China to the United Nations. We have favored loyalty oaths which could
help to reduce the ever-increasing menace of Communism without placing what we considered to be undue strain on personal freedom.
The editorial policy we consider most vital to the future of Davidson College takes precedence over all of those enumerated
in this column. If it is violated, Davidson will lose far more than she will gain. We oppose the admission
of Negroes to Davidson—now or ever.

A Word Of Thanks

Too many people are responsible for the DAVIDSONIAN’s weekly appearance in your room to name them and thank each of
them in these columns; however, their services are too valuable to go without some recognition, even if it is as
a group. In fact, it seems entirely appropriate to thank them that way—as a group—for that is the way they
have worked. No matter how much for granted the DAVIDSONIAN is taken by the students, we are always deluged with
complaints if we publish late, and this makes the staff rather proud—it’s to us a form of praise. The DAVIDSONIAN
has a tradition that dictates a good product. No praise in this column could make those who work on it
try any harder to do a good job. This is just a bit of personal thanks from the editor to
all those who deserve it so much.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Ed Armfield

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Dick Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Dave Gillis

Associate Editor
Jim Hamilton

Editorial Assistant
Bob Livingston

Managing Editors
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore

Sports Editor
B. Miliner

News Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Charles Rose

Assignments Editor
David Jordan

Copy Editor
Dan Clemmer

Cartoonists
Redding Starling

Advertising Manager
Charlie Rowe

Circulation Mgr.
Albert McClure, Jr.

Ass't. Business Manager
Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

Tom Mainor, Tim Ray Attack “Editorial Voice”

Tim Ray

Dear Editor:

Believe it or not, I am not trying to attract attention by writing so many letters, but I think that
a couple of points need discussing. The first one is this race business. Okay, so this is not South Africa,
but the race question may be partially a matter of ethics and/or religion here. Trevor Huddleston and Dr. Polley believe
that it is to a considerable degree a matter of ethics and religion in South Africa, rather than being just
a question of who has the right to break the law. You say the vocal majority of Davidson students are
not the true majority, that the true majority are so content with the present system that they keep quiet, and
that some of the vocal majority are just out for personal recognition. Why don’t you go ahead and conduct this
opinion poll you mentioned in order to substantiate your opinion? Then, if you are right, tell us what it proves,
if anything. And if we, who are supposedly in the minority, are seeking recognition, from whom do we seek it,
seeing that we are in the minority. Why don’t the modest and conservative standbyers speak up vocally and defend their
“majority” opinion? You seem to be really alarmed about the race issue; why don’t you and your followers put forward
some concrete arguments in favor of (if I may borrow Robinson’s image) this “tin god” that you “hold sacred.” We
are aware of your sentiments. Finally, yes, preaching has changed since 1838, thank God, and let’s hope that progressive thinking
like Dr. Hall’s continues among clergymen.

The second point that needs discussing is this business of academic freedom. Why is it that education should receive a
pointing finger and a charge of Red while the farmers, railroad personnel, welfare check receivers, and so forth are trusted?
Could this indicate perhaps a fear of intellectualism? Maybe good old solid just plain folks are tired of having their
prejudices and icons kicked over by those always precious few who have been honest or unafraid in their search for
truth. Okay, so you don’t like communism. Good,Neither do I. But one of the main aims of education should be
to examine one’s own ideas, to see if they are really substantial. In short, aren't you very presumptuous to do
away with a philosophical system, a type of government, and a way of life without meeting them head-on? Who knows,
you might, somewhere along the way, in your aversion for ideas, turn away a Socrates. You say truth is the
end for which academic freedom should be the means, but how do you propose to find truth if you destroy
the academic freedom? Granted, academic freedom is dangerous. But so is thinking at all, and so is living a full
life. In fact, I know of nothing more dangerous and foreign to the indications of common sense than to be
a truly dedicated Christian or to love one’s enemies. One of your objections to communism, you say, is your belief
in God. Is this the God of the Judeo-Christian tradition? If you say yes, you’re involving yourself in something pretty
dangerous right there. If you are following the example of Jesus, he didn’t, you remember, try to arouse public opinion
to outlaw the Pharisees and the money-changers—he met them face-to-face. My main point in this sort of disconnected letter is
that you are taking for granted that you've got the truth as to what is a “healthy academic freedom” already,
but that this truth is something regular unhealthy academic freedom is necessarily the means to. It is fairly obvious that
you don’t favor an academic freedom whose end is truth, because you're too confident that you've already got all the
truth that’s necessary. Finally, I offer my congratulations to the American Association of University Professors and the several other national
organizations who have taken the only stand on this issue that people can who really believe in a democracy which
includes free speech and free press.

Tim: Ray Tom Mainor

Dear Editor:

I have serious doubts that the “News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College” is actually what it claims to be.
The Editorial Policy which you so vigorously espouse, to me, does not seem to reflect the spirit of an educational
institution of the quality of Davidson. Nor, indeed, does it appear to be the actual “voice” of the students or
the faculty here. Unless, of course, you do not print the letters agreeing with your policy. Any constructive criticism of
the Editorial Policy seems to be met with a rather defensive and an unwarrantedly biting cynicism and sarcasm. In the
case of your reply to the Reverend B. Frank Hall, Dr. Max Polley and others, your answer to them, in
each case, seemed to be oblivious to the spirit of the letters. This does not reflect one who is sure
of the ground on which he takes his stand. Your editorial, “Changing Times And Preaching,” proved exemplary of the normal
defense of your most obvious stand, rather outdated, especially when tied in with the reply to Dr. Hall's letter. This
is then not the free press, which you imply marks the DAVIDSONIAN, but one of stagnation! The ‘Old South’ had
many desirable aspects to commend it, but race hatred and subsequent results do not appear to be one of these
desirable aspects. We are all interested, and behind you, in your ‘Crusades’ for liberalized cuts, understanding the meaning of ‘academic
freedom’ and other area endeavors. Present to the students and the readers of your paper a challenging and thought-provoking editorial
policy and I feel certain the desired response will be forthcoming.

Yours to an “Editorial Voice of Davidson College”,
Tom Mainor.

NEARING THE HALF-WAY MARK

Ten Year Program May Bring Distinguished Professors Here

By ERVIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

What is the Ten Year Plan? Rapidly nearing the halfway mark—1961—the program remains unfamiliar to students. Yet it is carefully
explained to the Board of Visitors, earnestly discussed among trustees and broached hopefully to “friends of the College” as the
most significant phase of the College Development Program. Development Director Robert Sailstad this week answered DAVIDSONIAN questions concerning the Plan.
“It's a systematic long-term plan of providing facilities and the program of education needed to enable Davidson to take advantage
of her full educational potential,” he said. “We describe it as a flexible program to balance brains and books with
bricks.”

CUNNINGHAM PRESENTS

The Ten Year Plan was born in 1956, when President John R. Cunningham presented it to the Board of Trustees
and won their overwhelming approval for its provisions. A target date of 1965 was set to fulfilling the goals set
forth in the original plan. Most of the goals were general (“continued religious emphasis”), to allow flexibility in planning, but
some were clearly and specifically outlined; along with a provision for increased faculty salaries was a clause calling for “a
program of distinguished visiting professors” for Davidson College. Referring to the visiting professor phase, Sailstad said, “That is definitely in
the works now, under the heading of ‘educational enrichment.’ It's clearly a part of the plan and some announcements about
it will be coming in the fairly near future.”

NOT JUST BRICKS

Cunningham's proposal called for “at least seven new buildings.” Listed were science laboratory facilities, a “Woodrow Wilson Fine Arts Quadrangle,”
and increased dormitory facilities. But the Ten Year Plan has its academic as well as its physical side. “We've gotten
all the major buildings now,” said Sailstad. “The emphasis from here on will be on our ‘human needs’; increased endowment
for faculty salaries, a continuing study of the curriculum, faculty quality and the scholarship program.”

MORE FUNDS

A 1967 goal of ten million dollars in endowment funds was set in 1957. The increased financial power will cover
the ‘human needs’ mentioned by Director Sailstad. In addition, a program of “refresher courses for businessmen, ministers and others" is
planned; erection of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center will provide facilities for summer conferences, symposiums and the long-planned “alumni college.”
Two major foundation grants have brightened the prospects for faculty salary increases. In 1956 the Ford Foundation donated a substantial
amount earmarked for faculty salaries; in December the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation of Winston-Salem issued a grant of $450,000 for
the same purpose.

DANA AID WELCOME

How have the various gifts of Charles A. Dana helped? “I would say Mr. Dana’s help has been the major
shot in the arm for our Ten Year Plan,” said Sailstad. “Mr. Dana certainly came to the right place at
a happy time. He found a college with many educational needs—and with a systematic plan for meeting them.” The buildings
made possible by Mr. Dana put the plan well ahead, and his recent scholarship gifts boost the academic hopes of
the Plan.

WHAT’S UNDONE?

When asked “What's left?", those who steer the Ten Year Plan find it hard to answer. Everything, it seems, is
at least started and well along the way; at the half-way mark in 1961 the Plan will probably be more
than half completely fulfilled. Remaining now are more faculty salary increases, more scholarship funds, more endowment to ensure Davidson's future
as a 1000-man college, more “efforts to strengthen the teaching of the liberal arts at Davidson.” But a few concrete
goals remain apparently well in the future: the “alumni college,” the planned conferences for businessmen and ministers, significant curriculum changes,
and—the bright hopes of students—“a program of distinguished visiting professors.”

College Publishes Analysis Of 59 Freshman Statistics

Editor’s Note: Recently the College published a report containing statistics bearing on the present freshman class. The analysis, which was
recently completed by the College Entrance Examination Board of Princeton, New Jersey, has been sent to a large number of
secondary schools for use in their guidance programs.

1. Overall figures
- completed applications: 853
- applications accepted: 413
- enrolled: 258

2. Rank in class

PUBLIC SCHOOL
- Rank: 1st quarter
- Number: 187
- % of class: 73%
- Rank: 2nd quarter
- Number: 32
- % of class: 12%
- Rank: 3rd quarter
- Number: 2
- % of class: 1%
- Rank: 4th quarter
- Number: 1
- % of class: 0%
- Totals: 219
- % of class: 85%

PRIVATE SCHOOL
- Rank: 1st quarter
- Number: 21
- % of class: 8%
- Rank: 2nd quarter
- Number: 15
- % of class: 6%
- Rank: 3rd quarter
- Number: 2
- % of class: 1%
- Rank: 4th quarter
- Number: 1
- % of class: 0%
- Totals: 39
- % of class: 15%

3. Distribution of College Board Aptitude Scores

VERBAL
- Range: 700-800
- Number: 6
- % of class: 2%
- Range: 600-699
- Number: 45
- % of class: 17%
- Range: 500-599
- Number: 129
- % of class: 50%
- Range: 400-499
- Number: 71
- % of class: 28%
- Range: 350-399
- Number: 7
- % of class: 3%

MATH
- Range: 700-800
- Number: 15
- % of class: 6%
- Range: 600-699
- Number: 87
- % of class: 34%
- Range: 500-599
- Number: 116
- % of class: 45%
- Range: 400-499
- Number: 36
- % of class: 13%
- Range: 350-399
- Number: 4
- % of class: 2%

VERBAL
- Mean: 538.7
- Median: 539

MATH
- Mean: 576.8
- Median: 577

4. Sons of Alumni
- Number applied: 71
- % of total: 8%
- Number accepted: 45
- % of total: 11%
- Number enrolled: 37
- % of total: 14%
