Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1960
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Another Plea For Maturity

The Court of Control is through. Jim Bootle startled almost everybody by making it official. All freshman regulations were suspended after Freshman-Sophomore Day, even though the sophomores won the traditional set-to between the classes. We commend him for his move. The Court did not have the upper-class support it must have for effective jurisdiction. Dozens of freshmen left beanies and name-tags in their rooms, took as many shortcuts across the grass as they pleased, and were not turned in. To stick with the regulations until Homecoming would have been a hollow formality.

So what next? Is the Court of Control, losing prestige and authority each year, to stagger on and on, just going through the motions of being a tradition? We hope not. Last spring, in an editorial entitled “A Plea For Maturity,” THE DAVIDSONIAN proposed that a special advisory council be created in place of the Court of Control. Upon re-examination, we have concluded that such a group would likely be rather cumbersome, and would overlap the job of the hall counselors. So we make a fresh proposal:

1. Disband the Court of Control and appoint in its place a committee of Student Council members, including the Freshman Advisor.
2. Retain the more constructive of the freshman regulations, these to be designated by the Student Council.
3. Proceedings against violators should be conducted on a more personal basis, eliminating entirely the chapel call-downs. Offenders should be notified of their hearing by mail or personal contact.
4. Punishment for violators whose guilt is proved should be as follows: For the first offense, a warning. For the second offense, a one-week campus, including the weekend, unless the defendant can prove extenuating circumstances. For additional offenses, longer campus periods, to be determined by the committee.

We feel that the automatic campusing after the first offense would keep freshmen from taking the regulations lightly. It would also make playful upperclassmen think twice before turning in a freshman on a trumped-up charge. Under this system the freshman is not ridiculed, maligned, or embarrassed before he has had a chance to defend himself. He may, however, be punished for breaking a rule but this punishment is levied after justice has had its due processes. So we make another plea for maturity. And maybe this time we'll think before we vote.

Make Grading A Team Job

Last week THE DAVIDSONIAN investigated the possible adoption of comprehensive examinations at Davidson. It was concluded that the adoption of comprehensives will be a definite step toward student maturity and academic excellence. This week we will examine comprehensives in more detail. When speaking of a comprehensive examination we mean an examination that is given to every student at the end of his senior year covering everything he has studied in his major subject.

Under the present grading and teaching system at Davidson a student feels that he is working against the individual grading system of his major professors, instead of with his professors toward some common goal. We believe that the introduction of comprehensives will help to relieve the feelings of tension between student and teacher. Under such a system students and professors will have a feeling of teamwork since the student’s performance on the comprehensive will not only measure his knowledge of the subject, but will also test how successful the professor has been in teaching the material.

Comprehensive examinations will assure more complete objectivity in a professor's grading system. A teacher will be able to judge whether he has been grading a student incorrectly by comparing the student's performance on the comprehensive with his past record on other tests. For comprehensives to improve the academic standards at Davidson it is essential that the examinations be given by people outside the local college community. We believe that the examinations would not be nearly as meaningful if given by Davidson professors since there would be a tendency for a professor to be too lenient toward a senior after having worked closely with the student for two years or more.

The comprehensive examinations should be partially oral and partially written. The oral portion of the examination would not only test a student’s knowledge of his major subject, but also his ability to express himself. Next week THE DAVIDSONIAN will examine the application of comprehensives to the different academic departments of Davidson College.
—R. L. M.

We Welcome Letters--Signed

About once or twice a semester, THE DAVIDSONIAN receives an acid letter from some irate reader whose feelings have been hurt or whose views have been crossed by one of our editorials. We never print these letters simply because they are not signed. Our policy for contributions to the “Letters to the Editor” section is that they be typed, double-spaced, and signed by the author. This policy was clearly outlined in a box on last week’s editorial page. But this week, well before our Wednesday night deadline, we received one of these anonymous diatribes. It was concerned with our opinions of the Court of Control and with our one-sided editorial policy. The author suggested that we strive to become a “fair-minded paper that publishes only letters of the right sort of savor...” We're sorry we couldn't print your letter, bud.

We really don’t mind printing letters from people who don’t agree with us. We like to see people think about things, whether they think like we do or not. We hope you noticed that we initial our editorials, except those by the editor-in-chief, which traditionally go unsigned. In other words, you know who says what in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Since we sign our opinions, we feel that you should have the courage to sign yours—and when you do, we'll be glad to print them.

Clean-Up Time - - - - - by Millner

Students Hit Paper’s ‘Halitosis,’ Editorial Policy, IMAC Ruling

Joe Martin

Dear Editor:
Somebody—you, I guess—is to be congratulated for confining THE DAVIDSONIAN’s chronic halitosis to page two of last week's effort. “Less bad breath” is only slightly less offensive than the original disease, of course, but it is a beginning. I noticed that one paragraph of last week’s editorial on the Court of Control consisted of the word “hogwash” (which pretty well summed up my opinion of the entire editorial). May I suggest that the remedy for most of Davidson’s “ills” is not the “hogwash” attitude, however, but a “mouthwash” application? If THE DAVIDSONIAN pretends to be the mouth and voice of Davidson College, then somebody needs to take better care of it.

The Popular Medical Encyclopedia claims that no mouthwash known has the power to prevent a bad odor arising from decay, but since the student body has opportunity to clean house once a year, I'm sure this is not our problem. It is possible, of course, for particles of rot to become so permanently lodged in the mouth parts that even repeated brushing will not improve the situation. What the Encyclopedia prescribes for this is more frequent dental inspection or “scientific treatment with the removal of the source.” This is a matter for specialists because “your best friend won't tell you” doesn't mean that you don’t have it. It may be that that pipe of his has distorted his sense of smell.

Joe Martin

Dick Smith

Dear Editor:
What is the purpose of the IMAC on this campus? Events of the early part of this week lend importance to this question. Prior to the beginning of a flickerball game on Monday a discussion arose as to the eligibility of sophomores who received freshman numerals in football. The officials for the game, the team captains, and the president of the IMAC could come to no definite conclusion. The sophomores in question played in the game and their team won. Tuesday a notice was circulated among fraternities ruling that sophomores receiving freshman numerals in football are ineligible for flickerball. The president of the IMAC announced that the game was forfeited to the other team. It is my opinion that the participants in intramural athletics are being deprived of procedural due process supposedly granted to them through the IMAC. In a case where a ruling is made on the basis of an interpretation of a regulation—where difference of opinion exists regarding this regulation—settlement should come through the IMAC.

I would make the following suggestions andurge that IMAC representatives consider them. First, officials for each intramural event should be supplied with complete rules and regulations. Second, questions regarding interpretation of a rule be settled only through the IMAC as a whole, using regular protest procedures. Third, the IMAC rules, regulations, and constitution should be published again in complete form.

Richard K. Smith
John Cooley

Dear Editor:

Occasionally the press may become so over-confident in its responsibility for criticizing society that we must accept our responsibility for criticizing the press and for reminding it that being a critic does not free one of the quirks of human nature. Take, for example, the human fallacy of justifying means by the end. This charge has recently been used in an attempt to have the Court of Control abolished—a worthy end. And yet in its striving for that end, THE DAVIDSONIAN itself justified an inadequate means, shabby journalism.

On the question of Sophomore Rush, a front-page article reported the IFC President indicating that Freshman Rush went well. On the question of Comprehensive Examinations, another front-page article reported the dean of faculty's views. But on the question of the Court of Control, the subject of the lead editorial, no factual news article appeared anywhere in the paper. Furthermore, the only ‘fact’ used in the editorial itself was a quote from a secondary source, last year’s DAVIDSONIAN (and which, incidentally, Bootle claims to have been an inaccurate report).

There is nothing too commendable about choosing news for its relevance to editorial stands, but if this is going to be the practice at all (as it inevitably will be when the paper fulfills its functions of being both a news agency and a force for change), it should be applied to every editorial stand, not just those which are easily supported. Neither of the paper's functions should interfere with the other: No news should be excluded because it is dealt with editorially; and no news reported should remain sacred from editorial comment. THE DAVIDSONIAN has an unquestioned monopoly as the “News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College.” Let us hope that the lack of competition will not be cause for relaxed standards of journalism.

John Cooley

The Pearsall Memorial Presbyterian Church in Wilmington and is a College Trustee. He indicates this fable might apply to the Davidson trustees.

Once upon a time, before Alley Oop's Dinny had cracked his leathery egg or Jack Benny had turned 39, there lived a most proper gentleman who answered to the name of Mr. Pithecanthropus Erectus Iceage.

That is, he answered to that name when addressed by an anthropoid of satisfactory social qualifications and economic status, who harbored no radical nonsense about civil rights or social equality for those pale-skinned ape-men whose unhealthy lack of color proclaimed that the great god Ooble had obviously made them of inferior mud and designed them to be a servant race. Everybody who was anybody knew that those miserable Piltdown eoanthropoi were potential missing links that should have stayed missing, incapable of Higher Things; and that the incitement to all their outrageous ambition lay in some vague but sinister Communistic plot. Why, snorted Mr. Iceage, you could hardly call them human.

Of Mr. I's own right to call himself Homo Sap. there was no doubt. His big toes were no longer serviceable for gripping branches, having been civilized out of usefulness by friction on cave floors; and his ancestors had long since eschewed the undignified usage of holding the club (the light model for non-lethal chastisement) with one’s tail on those frequent occasions when it became necessary to administer discipline to an over-voluble wife.

Indeed, Mr. Iceage would no more think of swatting anyone (eoanthropoi excepted) with a tail-grasped weapon than you would think of drinking coffee from your saucer in company. I hope you realize what a solid citizen he was!

The climate of P.E.’s world, as his associates in the elite Non-tail Aurochs and Mastodon Hunt respectfully addressed him, was as uncompromisingly regular as our hero himself. It was consistently cold, consistently wet, consistently awful. But like the modern English, Mr. Iceage deemed it perfect. The idea that vast glaciers might melt, the stony soil sprout greenery, and the austere tundra surrender to the caress of spring never occurred to him. If it had, he would have dismissed such wild imagining as dangerously radical.

There was only one season throughout the Upper Pliocene: Winter. It had always been so, since the first Pithecanthropes (dutifully honored annually by the Daughters of Arboreal Reaction) left the windy branches for the security of a cave and the solitude of Splendid Isolation. Naturally, since this had been the status of weather in the Glorious Past, it would always be so. Disturbing rumors that the seasons were warming up and glaciers retreating were obviously vicious propaganda. What the shady and devious Piltdown Conspiracy financed by International Jewry and spearheaded by the infamous NAACP (Neanderthal Action Against Clubbing Piltdowners) hoped to gain by such tactics was a bit obscure, still...

So, when solar radiation did change its character, and the ice did melt, and frozen swamps became trackless morasses, and the lush beauty of spring covered the brave new Pleistocene world, P.E. was first scornful, then incredulous, and finally very angry indeed. He still insisted on following his habit-hallowed route across Mesohippus Moraine on his daily trek from his cave to his office at the Arrow and Wampum Trading Company, until one day spring really came, and P.E., unyielding to the last, found himself stuck in the mud like the cockroach in peanut butter and slowly disappeared, to be dug up half a million years later as a fossil imprint in Cromerian Shales, consistent as always—a fossil to the very end!

There is, I think, a moral to this tragic tale. Scripture enshrines the melancholy cogitations of the hen-pecked Solomon to the effect that there is a time for everything, even to throwing rocks and refraining from embracing. Successful life depends, in any age from the Glacial to the Atomic, upon discovering the seasons and obeying their mandates. The wise man does not ordinarily sow in autumn and reap in spring. He does things in their proper time; when the climate changes, he goes along. But old P.E. sired a stubborn line. His spiritual descendants still maintain their adamant defiance of change; and like their remote progenitor, when world climate is altered by the revolving seasons, they get stuck in the mud.

By JIM TANNER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Tuesday was a great day for Davidson; it brought this year’s initial ROTC drill. It was a sight to bring a lump into one's throat; six hundred men, oozing patriotism and eagerness to serve their country, assembling with clockwork precision upon the drill field. It was all very impressive, but to the freshman it was also a bit confusing. Herewith we present a list of basic ROTC terms, with explanations that will perhaps enlighten those who are confused.

Uniform—clothes you wear. Shirts must have collars too tight and sleeves too short. Trousers must also be short and tight.

Brass—the gewgaws that you rub with Brasso and stick on collars and things.

Shoes—the things that you spit on and polish until you run out of either spit, polish, or patience. Then they still aren't shiny enough.

Military Courtesy—what you've got to do to get promoted.

Bootlicking—an even better way of getting promoted.

Attention—consists of breathing in and then quitting.

The Salute—a gesture of military courtesy (see military courtesy) performed by jabbing the third finger of the right hand into the right eye while holding the elbow up so the blood won’t run down.

At Ease—when you can scratch where you itch.

Inspection—when the Cadet Officer (see cadet officer) struts up to see if your brass (see brass) and shoes (see shoes) and uniform (see uniform) are looking good. You stand at attention (see attention) while he does this and try to keep from laughing. Laughing wouldn't be correct military courtesy (see military courtesy). See?

About Face—when you put one foot behind the other and turn around with your weight on one foot’s toes and the other foot’s heel. Then you get up off the ground, unravel your legs, and get chewed out.

Cadet Officer—one of the better bootlickers (see bootlickers).

Squad, Platoon, and Company—what they divided the whole mess into to make things more confusing. Also to give all the bootlickers (see bootlickers and cadet officers) something to yell at when the polish isn’t the right flavor.

With this basic vocabulary well in mind, the MS I student should have no trouble. Of course, there are many intricacies yet to be mastered (bootlicking is a science unto itself). These will come with experience. And remember: old soldiers never die. It’s against the rules of military courtesy (see military courtesy).