FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN

A LOOK AT... SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

That Evenin’ Sun Go Down

COACH DOLE is hungry for a victory here tomorrow. His Wildcats have lost 11 of their last 13 games. This
would be an excellent time to snap out of it. Homecoming, somehow, always means a little bit more to the
players.

AS FAR as we're concerned the Richmond game must be won. If Davidson loses—whether or not the boys play a
“good” game but are victims of a bad break—we don’t think they’ll win another one this season. Shades of 1959!
If we win, and there’s an even chance we will, the three remaining games hold new meaning. VPI is beyond
reach, but Furman and Lehigh are not.

AT ANY RATE Dole drew blood from his team in practice this week. Tuesday he worked them for three hours
and fifteen minutes. As nightfall was almost upon them, one player remarked, “Are we gonna get a break for supper?”

Tapping The Signals

HAVE YOU ever wondered what Kent Tucker is shouting when he calls the signals? The sound is di-DA-dit and it
means Roger in Morse Code. Accent is on the second syllable. Coach Dole has used it for seven years. By
varying the speed of the signal, our quarterback can produce an offbeat rhythm, giving the Wildcat line an advantage over
the defenders. Di-DA-dit... di-DA-dit...

COACH MARROTTE sighed a breath of relief yesterday when he found a manager—Tommy Robinson. The coach said he has manager
problems every year. Until Wednesday it was Paul Marrotte, history professor, soccer coach and team manager.

The Davidson College soccer team made a strong bid for national recognition here yesterday afternoon by nipping the Blue Devils
of Duke University, 1-0, before 200 fans. The victory was the fifth in a row for Coach Paul Marrotte’s booters,
who remained undefeated.

Bob Windsor, John Keiter, and Wolfgang Mayerhofer continually dribbled around Blue Devil defenders for shots. Finally, in the fourth quarter,
one of the shots ripped the nets when Arnold Krone, an exchange student from Germany, slipped into the clear after
a quick exchange at mid-field and booted the ball by the Duke goalie.

Following the game, a beaming Coach Marrotte said, “It was a very evenly matched contest. We just got some good
breaks, and took advantage of them.”

The win yesterday was the second time the Wildcats have beaten the Devils—last year’s score also by one goal, 3-2.

In the first half, Duke threatened to rip the Wildcats’ nets, but time and time again fullbacks Dick Dalton, Henry
Pharr, and Frank Tullech, and goalie Claude Finney put the clamps on the challengers to halt any threat.

The second half was a different story. Davidson controlled the ball almost all of the time, as forwards Mike Laughlin,
Dave Irvin, and Joe Kelly, assisted by halfbacks Booker Clark, Bill Salzer, Bill Bankhead, Joe Ansley, and Dick Voorhees, forged
a potential victory for the Wildcats.

The hardest fought game in flickerball this week was between the Sigma Chis and the KA’s on Wednesday. After the
opening kickoff touchdown by the KA’s, Chi quarterback John Hollenbeck led the return attack with well-placed passes and a TD
run. Pass interceptions and the teamwork of trio Jerry Shelton, Hight Redmond, and Jim Allen forged a potential victory for
the KA’s in the last quarter. The Chis spent the last moments of the game in an intense effort to
regain the lead. Hollenbeck attempted a long pass to Jim Hart, downfield in the clear, but the ball slipped through
his fingers. Final score, 26-21, KA’s.

Other games played between last Thursday and this Wednesday, with the winner listed first, include: KA-Ind., Phi Delt-Phi Gam, Kappa
Sig-SAE, SPE-Pika, Beta-Sigma Nu, ATO-Ind., Sigma Chi-Phi Gam. Also, Phi Delt-KA, Phi Gam-Sigma Nu, Phi Delt-ATO, Kappa Sig-Beta, and Pi
Kapp-Ind.

Homecoming May Give ’Cats A Needed BoostBy CARL RUST
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College Wildcats play host to the Richmond Spiders on Richardson Field tomorrow at 2:30 p.m. with high hopes
for a victory in the Homecoming Classic.

PAGE THREE

Rugged Richmond Hits Here

The Wildcats’ record is about the same with a 1-3 score. The ‘Cats’ lone victory was their opener with Catawba
followed by three straight losses to Wofford, P.C., and The Citadel. The Wildcats have ahead in the statistics column, but
not in the all-important scoring column.

OPEN DATE

Davidson last put club had weekend the drills. The open date Coach Dole through extensive an ‘Cats. Dole said that
Davidson will continue to run the same type of offense as before, hoping to get its passing attack as well
as its running attack clicking. Coach Dole has moved Duncan Morton to right halfback and Duncan has been doing a
good job in practice. This week the ‘Cats spent Monday and a few minutes on Tuesday on offense and the
remainder of the week on defense for the Homecoming event. When asked about his hopes against Richmond, Coach Dole replied:
“I hope our defense will hold up and that we will be more successful in generating an offense than we
have been in the past.”

OFFENSE

LE Danny House
LT Scott Lacy
LG Dave Lovette
C Tom Simpson
RG Cecil Holcomb
RT Johnny Crute
RE Lou Zirkle
QB Kent Tucker
LH Jerry Sheffield
RH Duncan Morton
FB Bob McAllister

Laughlin kicks ‘Cats to victory (Photo by Wells)

Laughlin, Top Wildcat, Nears Scoring Mark

Our Top Wildcat for this Homecoming Weekend at Davidson is a member of Davidson's undefeated soccer team. This is senior
Mike Laughlin, the high-scoring center forward on Coach Paul Marrotte’s team that has compiled a record of four victories without
suffering defeat. Laughlin earned this week's recognition as Davidson's star by scoring seven goals in the first four games. This
includes two goals against Carson-Newman last Saturday as the ‘Cats rolled up a 4-0 victory.

As a freshman and sophomore, Laughlin lettered as a wing on the Davidson teams, but last year Coach Marrotte shifted
Laughlin to center-forward to utilize his remarkable scoring abilities. As a junior last year, Mike gained a position on the
All-South All-Star squad at center forward. Laughlin utilized the ability to knock equally well with both feet, and a blinding
speed to produce a fine brand of soccer. Says Coach Marrotte, “Laughlin is about the fastest man on the squad
and is certainly one of the best dribblers we have ever had here at Davidson. His ball handling is something
near phenomenal.”

The school scoring record in soccer was established in 1958 by a student, Wiecher Bergsma, from the Netherlands, who scored
eight field goals and nine penalty kicks in eleven games.

Davidsonians meet in Kitchen for a... at the Famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

Perfect Season In Sight For Cross-Country Team?

With the Southern Conference cross-country meet only one month away, Coach Whittle and his runners are preparing to strut right
along with the larger, more athletically inclined Southern Conference schools. After defeating VPI and Catawba last week, Martin, Eckbert, Gilmour
and Co. have run up a 5-0 record (not counting today’s meet with Furman). Coach Whittle is very confident that
they can add two more victories to that total when they meet Richmond and Pfeiffer in a triangular meet here
at Davidson next Tuesday. He is expecting neither team to be very strong this year. That will leave only one
other regular season meet. That encounter will be with a very tough VMI team. A victory over Furman today could
lead to a perfect regular season record of 9-0.

Then will come the State meet on November 7 in Raleigh, followed by the conference meet on November 21. In
the state meet, in which all North Carolina schools participate, Whittle says, “I would be very pleased with a third
place finish, but we are running for a second place finish behind the defending champions from West Virginia.” In that
meet, Whittle expects at least one ‘Cat, number one man Bill Eckbert or David Gilmour, to finish in the top
five.

Clearing the hurdles with research

At Gen Tel, we've made a running start toward solving many of tomorrow's communications problems. For instance, scientists at General
Telephone & Electronics Laboratories are working in the uncharted area of the spectrum where radio waves take on the characteristics
of light. They have already developed an experimental system that may one day make possible the transmission of two million
messages on a single radio beam in free space. As a major communications company with worldwide connections, General Telephone is
helping to advance the science of total communications around the globe. Our stepped-up research in the basic sciences is but
one example of the way General Telephone & Electronics combines the talents of many people and the facilities of many
companies to meet the future communications needs not only of America, but the whole world.

Frosh Seek First Win Against Gardner-Webb

At the tail end of the homecoming festivities in more ways than one, the freshman Wildcats will venture to Gaffney,
S.C. tomorrow night seeking to improve their 0-2 record with a victory over Gardner-Webb Junior College of Boiling Springs. Last
week's game with the Furman Frosh witnessed some excellent individual play, but, as the 42-14 score might indicate, we were
aching for team motivation. Freshman Coach Tom Stevens cited Barry Billington, Russell Walls, and Benny Cox. The team the Wildkittens
meet tomorrow comes into the game sporting a 1-1-1 record. Last week they tied Mars Hill.

HOMECOMING IN CORRECT ATTIRE

SPORT COATS $35.00 to 69.50
VESTS $7.95 to 17.95
SLACKS $14.95 to 29.95

BOTH WEAK? AND UNIVERSITY SHOP
