Catfish Meet V.P.1. At 2:00 (See Page Three) Mautsonta The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College VOL. XLVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1960

Y To Sponsor Entering Freshmen

By ZACH SMITH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Freshman Camp Program received its final approval from the college administration and the YMCA Board of Directors early this week. The camp will be a gathering of a portion of the freshmen class in a nearby church camp for two days prior to orientation next fall. The formation of the camp program resulted from a study under the leadership of Charles Ringe. The camp will be operated as a program of the Y, in cooperation with the Dean of Students and other members of the administration, by a Student Steering Committee appointed by the Y cabinet.

For the first year at least, the camp will be limited to seventy-five freshmen, who will be selected according to the order of returned applications. Ringe listed the two basic purposes of the camp as “to discover and help meet the needs of the individual as he enters college and to aid the student as he confronts certain basic issues in society and as he seeks meaning in life.” This will be accomplished by addresses by faculty members and in various discussion groups under the proposed theme: “Either/Or vs. Both/And, Choices Among Values.” Other than the theme the program has not been completed.

The camp will be run by students who will be under the direction of a faculty advisor who will live at the camp. The director will probably be selected next week by the Y Cabinet after consultation with the Dean of Students. There will also be a student director, two assistants, a business manager, and fifteen counselors. The counselors will be appointed in February by the Student Steering Committee. There will be one counselor for every five freshmen at the camp. A minimum of five forty-five minute sessions, one of which will be at the camp site, will be required of all counselors.

At present, two sites are being considered for the camp: Camp Stewart, on the other side of Charlotte, and Camp Grier, near Asheville. The proposed dates of the camp are September 6-8 and the cost is estimated at being from ten to fifteen dollars per freshman, depending on which camp site is chosen. Plans are still in the early stages of development, but the Y definitely expects to have the camp next September. Finally, the IFC has been approached in order to prevent unwanted upperclassmen from interrupting the camp procedure.

Shearer Funeral Rites: Dr. Davidson Presides

The morning of the historic day arrived, the sky shedding its usual fluffy, gray veils for the occasion. The sun was bursting forth with its warm energy, exuberant in its unusual winter freedom. Student spirits were bubbling—as they normally do when the weather hints of spring. The general atmosphere gave no indication that this was the day of a historic funeral. But then, this was a different sort of funeral—one full of fun, jokes, and laughter. This day marked the death of that remarkable structure (some hesitate to call it a building) long noted as the campus eyesore. Yes, the old “Glory to God and Lizzy Hall” had reached the end of its days.

At 10:15 Wednesday morning the ROTC band blurted forth with military music, trying mightily to drown out the opposing sounds issuing from the church steeple. A stream of students began to converge on Shearer Hall, which was attracting students to a chapel for the first time in many years. Some students even detoured from their regular P.O. trek.

DAVIDSON PRESIDES

The crowd assembled in the upstairs auditorium. Officiating at this service was the very Reverend Chalmers Davidson. Raising his hand for silence, Dr. Davidson began. “I never thought that 35 years ago when I was here as a student I would preach the funeral sermon of this noble edifice. At that time the faculty was required to attend chapel. (Applause.) I had a couple of stories to tell about some of these men, but I didn’t know we were going to have a mixed audience.”

Dr. Davidson then proceeded to relate some of the picturesque history of this building. It was built in 1838, one year after Oak and Elm Row. It began its career as a church, “a very fine one,” Chalmers added. It was believed that the rain draining off the eastern slope of the roof eventually reached the Yadkin River. The western slope drained into the Catawba. In this building were held all religious services for many years. When old Chambers was built, many thought that chapel would be transferred to the grand Chambers Commencement Hall. However, there was one flaw. No heating. Thus, Shearer retained some of its winter chapel quarters.

BUILDING REMODELED

During Dr. Shearer's reign, he decided to name a building after his wife. He chose the old chapel and proceeded to remodel (Chalmers would say ruin) the building. At that time the building assumed its present name and shape. When old Chambers burned, Shearer became the academic center of the campus. Dr. Davidson commented that the windows of the building were very functional. They were very low and allowed students to crawl out when the professor wasn’t looking.

SPEECH CONCLUSION

Dr. Davidson then reached the close of his speech. “Probably there isn’t much that ever happened at Davidson that didn’t happen at one time or another in this old building. It is steeped in the triumphs and tragedies of the students, their festive celebrations and their (Continued On Page Four)

The proposed dates of the camp are September 6-8 and the cost is estimated at being from ten to fifteen dollars per freshman, depending on which camp site is chosen. Plans are still in the early stages of development, but the Y definitely expects to have the camp next September. Finally, the IFC has been approached in order to prevent unwanted upperclassmen from interrupting the camp procedure.

Joni May Capsize Midwinters Plans

There is a possibility that Joni James will not appear for a concert for Mid-Winters dance weekend. IFC president Ward McKeithen revealed that he learned of this last Saturday when he received a letter from the agent in New York who had arranged for Joni to appear here. The letter states that she is in London at this time, and she doubts that she will be back in time to appear at Davidson for her Friday, February 12, concert.

There is a contract between Miss James and the IFC. However, there is one condition in which gives her the right to break the contract if she gains TV or movie commitments and gives notice of this at least four weeks prior to her engagement. The IFC has wired the agent that it intends to hold Miss James to her contract, and the agent is supposed to let the IFC know definitely by Friday, January 15th, whether or not she will appear. There is a possibility that she may choose to break the contract, but this could involve legal action against her if the IFC chose to do so. In the meantime, McKeithen said, “We are proceeding as planned and assuming that she'll be here.” If Joni James doesn’t appear, the IFC intends to do everything possible to secure another outstanding attraction for the Friday night concert.

Each Class Gets Free Vespers Cut

The College Executive Committee approved the recommendation of the Religious Life Committee this week to exempt each class from one vesper service the first month of the second semester. This move is to eliminate the expected overcrowded conditions. According to the accepted schedule, classes will be exempt on the following schedule: February 7, freshmen; February 14, sophomores; February 21, juniors; February 28, seniors. This program will be in effect only for the first four Sundays.

Outgoing Editor Ed Armfield (right) reviews past DAVIDSONIAN issues with incoming Editor Dick Smith. Smith will assume duties with the next issue and will continue in post until spring elections.

Y Vocational Symposium Scheduled For March 6-11

The YMCA has scheduled a Symposium on Vocations for March 6-11. Through this symposium, the Y hopes to bring to the students an altogether fresh concept of vocations as the call to each individual to live and work for the highest values he holds. In an interview this week, Bill Martin, Y representative in charge of this program, emphasized the fact that this program is an outgrowth of the fact that many Davidson boys are going into life with the idea of “making a good living” for themselves. “For these people,” Martin stated, “it is not always easy to make their chosen vocations serve the highest values.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

which they possess. This is especially true for those who profess Christian values.” The program will begin on Sunday, March 6, with Dr. Carl Michalson of Drew University as the vespers speaker. On Tuesday, C. J. Wilcox, national personnel manager for the J. C. Penney and Company, will view the issue from the businessman's standpoint. Arrangements are being made to have men from the fields of politics and science serve this value in my chosen profession? 3. Is there a conflict between the values I profess and the practices I must follow in order to succeed in my vocation? 4. How do I resolve the conflict, or if I cannot resolve it, can I choose between my values and success in my vocation and still make my life really count? Martin said that the symposium grew out of a point stressed by Dr. George Buttrick in last year’s Religious Emphasis Week services that a Christian should serve God in all that he does. Physics Department facilities have almost all been installed in the Dana Building. The same tables are used in the new laboratories, but have been reworked. Deliberation, however, finishing early seemed Davidson’s best decision in the long run. Davidson’s Ten-Year Plan (See Page Two) Graduating Armfield Directs Final Issue Dick Smith will succeed to the Editorship of the DAVIDSONIAN when present Editor Ed Armfield graduates at the end of this semester. Smith, currently Assistant Editor, was runner-up in elections for this office last Spring. Tom Colvin will become Feature Editor and Gene Wells, photographer, Smith announced. Other new appointments to the staff will be made later. Armfield will graduate to work for his father at Reynolds and Company, a stock brokerage house. “Of course, graduation is not a spur of the moment decision,” Armfield pointed out. “The Editorship of the DAVIDSONIAN was the main consideration making me hesitant to graduate a semester earlier than I had planned. After much deliberation, however, finishing early seemed the best decision in the long run.” Armfield will receive training in the security research department of Reynolds and Company in New York until he enlists. “I have had a fine experience working on the newspaper and have enjoyed the close association with the staff members to whom I owe so much appreciation. I look forward to keeping in close contact with my friends at Davidson through the DAVIDSONIAN. “It seems entirely logical that Dick should become editor. I have no reservations as to his ability to run the newspaper. He will do a fine job.” Outlining DAVIDSONIAN policies and activities for the second semester, Smith pointed to a continuing investigation of the cut system. The paper is submitting a proposal to the faculty committee as requested, and will continue to work closely with it on the issue. The possibility of instituting a system of comprehensive examinations at Davidson will be explored on the editorial pages in the near future. Further consideration will be given to the segregation issue. A poll of student opinion will be taken and the DAVIDSONIAN hopes to submit this to the Board of Trustees at the same time the faculty presents its opinion. A more extensive statement of policy will appear in the next issue. “The mid-semester change of editorship is, I believe, without precedent,” Smith noted. “Ed has been well liked and everyone hates to see him go. I only hope that the job we do will equal his.” Students Register For Second Term Registration for second semester began this week for sophomores, juniors, and seniors, according to Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar. Upperclassmen desiring to change courses and schedules or those planning to take new courses second semester have been registering every afternoon this week in the Registrar’s office in Chambers. The period will be extended to Monday and Tuesday if needed for “latecomers.” Those making no changes in courses or schedules are not required to register. Registration for freshmen has been tentatively set for January 25-27 due to the requirements for certain math courses that will be offered. Professors should know by then which course a student will be entitled to take. Courses for the Spring term include all those outlined in the Catalogue with even numbers. In addition, Psychology 21 will be repeated for students who were unable to take it first semester but wish to have it now. Mimeographed sheets including courses and schedules have been posted and are available in the Registrar's office. “It looks like we're ready to move in the first of February,” stated Mr. G. C. Meetze, physics professor and supervisor of Dana Science Building construction. VISIT WITH ARCHITECT Said Currie before he left for Boston, “the plans for the auditorium at Wellesley certainly seem good for our purpose.” Banks of lights, operating independently, will give proper illumination at any point in the room. ARTS CENTER PROGRESS The Religious Life Committee also indicated that it will continue its study of a long-range solution to the problem of inadequate seating in its first meeting of the second semester. Dr. George Staples, college chaplain, will be the speaker at vespers this Sunday. The library has announced its schedule: Sunday, Jan. 17: 2-5 P.M., 8:30-11 P.M. Monday, Jan. 18 - Wednesday, Jan. 27: 8 A.M.-12 M. Thursday, Jan. 28: 8 A.M. - 6 P.M. Friday and Saturday, Jan. 29 and 30: 9 A.M.-12 N., 2-5 P.M. Sunday, Jan. 31: 2-5 P.M. be finished next week.” He also remarked on several new features in the lecture rooms. “Vinyl asbestos flooring and stationary seating will reduce maintenance problems to a minimum,” he said. “Also, the lighting arrangements are probably the best anywhere for the cost of the auditorium.” Mr. Currie, and Mr. L. Lashmitt, architect for the new building, spent yesterday in the Boston area, where they studied the Jewell Art Center at Wellesley College, a building similar to the one Davidson is going to construct. “The old equipment is still in fine shape, and we feel that after reworking it is as good as new equipment,” commented Meetze. Transfer of Biology equipment is now underway. All tables are to be moved in by the end of the week, and will also be refurbished before next semester. Smaller materials have been in the process of transfer since before the Christmas holidays. “All that is left is wiring for the vestibule and wiring to student desks in the physics labs,” said Meetze. “This should be finished next week.” He again emphasized that final plans are not yet made for the new building, but that as soon as the auditorium plan was settled, plans would be completed. Currie also remarked that construction on the new dormitory was proceeding “ahead of schedule.” The dorm, the Fine Arts Building, and the Dana Science Laboratories are all parts of the college’s current Ten-Year Development Program.