POLITICAL ISSUE

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. XLIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY,

Republican Candidates Triumph in Faculty Poll, Student Election Administration Gives Slight Edge To GOP

By LEONARD RICHARDSON
Davidsonian Managing Editor

By a slim nine-vote margin, Republican Richard M. Nixon edged past Democratic candidate John F. Kennedy in THE DAVIDSONIAN’s poll of 75 members of the Davidson faculty and administration. In the gubernatorial poll, Republican Robert Gavin narrowly defeated Democrat Terry Sanford by six votes.

In the presidential race, the Nixon-Lodge ticket received 36 votes (48%) and 29 voters supported the Kennedy-Johnson ticket (39%). The five write-in votes and five “Undecided” votes made up the remaining 13% of the presidential vote. Gubernatorial candidate Robert Gavin won 33 (44%) of the faculty-administration votes in THE DAVIDSONIAN poll, with Democratic candidate Terry Sanford trailing with 36% of the votes, by winning 27 votes.

SEAWELL-GRAHAM

Write-in votes, three for Malcolm Seawell and one for Frank Graham, made up 5.3% of the total. Eleven voters (14.7%) indicated that they were undecided or failed to mark any portion of the gubernatorial ballot.

Write-in votes for the presidential election included four for Democratic tickets, all of which included Adlai Stevenson, former governor of Illinois who was twice defeated for the presidency by Dwight D. Eisenhower. Two of these write-ins mentioned Stevenson alone, while the other two voters suggested Stevenson-Symington and Stevenson-Morse.

ALF LANDON

The only Republican write-in candidate for president was former governor of Kansas Alf Landon, the wealthy seventy-three-year-old liberal who ran unsuccessfully for president against Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1936. Landon has not been active in political life since his defeat in 1936. THE DAVIDSONIAN was unsuccessful in trying to reach Landon by phone for comment.

THE DAVIDSONIAN carried out the poll of the faculty and administration Tuesday and Wednesday by placing blank ballots in the faculty and administration boxes in the faculty lounge in the south wing of Chambers. A ballot box was also placed in the faculty lounge, with brief voting directions posted nearby. When a DAVIDSONIAN representative collected the votes Wednesday afternoon, 75 ballots had been cast. These votes were used for the compilation of the poll.

RESULTS OF OCT. 25-26 STUDENT MOCK ELECTION

DEMOCRATIC
Pres. & Vice Pres. 189 Kennedy-Johnson
Governor of N.C. 208 Sanford

REPUBLICAN
Pres. & Vice Pres. 481 Nixon-Lodge
Governor of N.C. 356 Gavin

WRITE-IN CANDIDATES YOU PREFER
Pres. & Vice Pres. 79
Governor of N.C. 0

UNDECIDED
President 44
Governor 129

RESULTS OF OCT. 25-26 FACULTY-ADMINISTRATION POLL

DEMOCRATIC
Pres. & Vice Pres. 29 Kennedy-Johnson
Governor of N.C. 27 Sanford

REPUBLICAN
Pres. & Vice Pres. 36 Nixon-Lodge
Governor of N.C. 33 Gavin

WRITE-IN CANDIDATES YOU PREFER
Pres. & Vice Pres. 5
Governor of N.C. 4

UNDECIDED
President 5
Governor 11

Dr. P. L. Lehmann Initiates Otts Lectures

Dr. Paul L. Lehmann, an outstanding American theologian, will speak at vespers this evening and in Little Chapel Tuesday evening at 7:30. This will be the first in a series of four lectures. Lehmann is also tentatively engaged to speak at a combined YMCA and Westminster Fellowship seminar Monday night at 8 o'clock.

OTTS LECTURES

The theme of this year's Otts Lecture Series will be “Perspectives in Contemporary Theology.” Lehmann is particularly interested in the area of social ethics and will speak on “What Is a Christian Act?” Dr. Lehmann has taught at Elmhurst College and has been Professor of Applied Christianity at Princeton Theological Seminary. He has also served as associate religious editor for the Westminster Press and is a member of the World Council of Churches. He has written various books among which are Forgiveness and Re-Educating Germany.

BALTIMORE NATIVE

Lehmann is a native of Baltimore and received his training at Ohio State University and Union Theological Seminary in New York where one of his most influential teachers was Reinhold Niebuhr, about whom he wrote the book, The Church of Christ (Evangelical and Reformed).

On November 29, Albert C. Outler, a specialist in the doctrine of Christ at Southern Methodist University where he is a faculty member, will present an address entitled, “Christology in a New Key.”

DR. OUTLER

Dr. Outler has served on the faculties at both Duke and Yale Universities and has written several books, among which are A Christian Context for Counseling and Psychotherapy and The Christian Message. Dr. James I. McCord, president of Princeton Theological Seminary, will be the third lecturer in the series and will speak on...

Gerry Shelton records his choice of presidential, vice-presidential, and N.C. gubernatorial candidates in the student mock election held Monday at the end of assembly.—(Davidsonian Photo by Abernathy).

Pulitzer Prize Winner Makes Plans For Visit

Following up the nights of last week, J. Archibald MacLeish, the author of the play, J.B., will arrive on the Davidson campus Nov. 2 as a part of the Reynolds Lectureship Series.

By RICK Von UNWERTH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dr. MacLeish’s schedule for his two-day visit on campus is not definite, but he has made plans for at least two addresses to the student body. On Wednesday he will have dinner with the Reynolds Lectureship Committee at the home of D. G. Martin. He will yet speak to students at 8:15 p.m.

ASSEMBLY ADDRESS

On Thursday MacLeish will speak at student assembly. His time that day will be taken up with classes and meetings with other student groups. It is hoped that he will be able to hold an informal discussion in one of the fraternity houses, to which all will be invited.

MacLeish will stay with Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming while in Davidson. Cumming’s two sons studied under MacLeish at Harvard.

REMARKABLE CAREER

Dr. MacLeish has enjoyed a remarkable career. Though he dates his life from 1923 when he decided to devote his full efforts to poetry, he has led quite an interesting and varied life. He graduated from Yale University in 1915 with a B.A. degree. At Yale, he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He entered Harvard Law School, he says, “to avoid going to work.” Yet he was first in his class when he received his LL.B. in 1919.

During the course of his career, MacLeish has served as a staff writer for Fortune Magazine, as Assistant Secretary of State, and as Librarian of Congress. He is at present the Boylston Professor of Rhetoric and Oratory at Harvard University.

PRIZE FOR “J.B.”

J.B. is generally accepted as MacLeish’s masterpiece; it won for him the Pulitzer Prize in 1959. It is based on the Old Testament story of Job, and in it MacLeish tries to examine the question “Why should one love a God who permits unjust suffering?” Job and the Comforters are placed in a modern setting. The Saturday Review predicted that J.B. “may well become one of the lasting achievements of art and mind in our time.”

Besides J.B., Dr. MacLeish has to his credit two other notable works: Poems 1917-1952 (1953) and...

IFC Nears Regulations

An IFC vote of 11-1...

“There are still one or two very minor details to settle yet,”...said Cole. “But there is a very strong possibility that the proposal will be accepted by the IFC. 

“We think the faculty should know that we are still working on the sophomore rush. We have several things we want the faculty to consider before it comes next year. The current proposal is definitely a step in the right direction and should serve to remedy many of the complaints which have been made known to us.”

Cole also commented during the meeting on the IFC's part in last week's Homecoming. “I thought everything went off very well,” he said. “We would like to thank everyone who helped make it such a success.”

Concerning the substitution of Joni James for the Hi-Lo’s, Cole explained, “We booked the Hi-Lo’s through a Charlotte booking agency. The agency called Thursday saying that one of the Hi-Lo’s had left the organization and the replacement was not ready to perform yet. However, I was told we could get Joni James as a substitute. This seemed like the best thing to do.”

Reversal of Previous Decision

Interfraternity Council President Jerry Cole announced Monday that the dissenting fraternity has reversed its decision concerning the proposed pledge training. The proposal was defeated October 10.

POLITICAL ISSUE NUMBER SEVENTEEN

Student Body Picks Nixon-Lodge, Gavin

Republican candidates Richard Nixon and Henry Cabot Lodge overwhelmingly defeated the Democratic candidates in the student mock election held on October 24. In the gubernatorial race, Republican Robert L. Gavin won by a significant margin.

In the mock election, 810 students or 86.4% of the student body cast ballots, with 17 of the ballots voided because of votes for two men for the same office. The Nixon-Lodge ticket polled 481 votes, or 60.6% of the valid votes, while 189 voters (23.8%) marked the Kennedy-Johnson ticket, and 44 voters (5.5%) were undecided. Also, 81 votes (10.1%) were cast for various Democratic and write-in candidates.

In the gubernatorial race, Robert L. Gavin polled a plurality of 356 votes (44.8%) as opposed to 208 votes (26.6%) for Democrat Terry Sanford. Students who checked “Undecided” or failed to check any of the spaces on the gubernatorial ballot totaled 129 (24.2%) of the 793 valid ballots cast in the mock election. Write-ins made up 35 of the gubernatorial votes (4.4%).

There were 298 straight Republican ballots (Nixon-Lodge and Gavin) but only 109 straight Democratic ballots (Kennedy-Johnson and Sanford). Nineteen voters indicated that they were undecided in regard to both the presidential and gubernatorial elections.

Write-ins for Republican candidates for president showed interest in Republican Barry Goldwater from Arizona, with 15 voters writing in his name for either president or vice-president. Five ballots switched the Republican ticket, putting Nixon as vice-president and Lodge for president. Four voters suggested New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller as either president or vice-president.

Leading the Democratic write-ins was former Governor of Illinois Adlai Stevenson. Also receiving write-in votes were Senator Harry Byrd of Virginia, Governor Orval Faubus of Arkansas, and eight other Democrats. Although 79 voters wrote in Democratic candidates for president, only 35 voters wrote in Democratic candidates for governor.

Vagabonds Bring Unique Attraction

The Vagabond’s fall repertoire this year will include “Which Way the Wind?,” a production by a visiting company. The documentary drama will be presented at 8:15 P.M. on Nov. 7 in Chambers auditorium. It is being sponsored by the Vagabonds, who will take charge of staging, publicity, and lighting.

The producer of the play is Arthur M. Dyes, Jr., who graduated from Davidson in 1957. The play will be given in a unique theatrical form called “Docu-Drama.” The same general type was widely used in the social dramas of the 1930s. There are only three members of the cast plus a narrator. The sequence of the play is periodically interrupted by scenes of retrospect and philosophical commentary. The play, though often biting and chastising, contains a certain amount of humor for which it has been highly praised.

“Which Way the Wind?” is one of the eight attractions included in the Vagabonds’ subscription series. Hansford Epes, coordinator for the group, said that this will be the only production by a visiting company. The others will be given by the Vagabonds’ own personnel.

Council Hears Reports

The Student Council heard a number of reports on various activities at its meeting Monday night. Hutton Barron made a report on a meeting of the Religious Life Committee that he and Skeeter Watson had attended. At this meeting, they presented the Council's proposal to allow students to attend church off-campus two Sundays a semester instead of Vespers. 

After the report, the Council had a discussion period in which they reconsidered their proposal and finally voted to drop it. A report was given by Jim Glenn on the Interim Council of the State Legislature, which he and Richard Masline attended recently. At this meeting, a date was set for the State Student Legislature, a mock legislative meeting of North Carolina college students. This meeting will be held on December 1-3 at Raleigh.

By MAC PLAXICO
Davidsonian Staff Writer

In selecting the Speakers of the House and Senate of the State Legislature, John Packer was appointed chairman of the committee to do this. This will be presented at another Interim Council on November 13. No action was taken on appointing delegates to the State Student Legislature at this Council meeting.

There was a report by Ben Sparks, chairman of the committee on the Court of Control. The committee is in favor of keeping the Court and is not in favor of changing any of the Freshmen Regulations. They have talked of having the Judge of the Court of Control elected by the senior class. Henry Shue suggested that the Freshman Advisor might serve as Judge. The committee is considering a weekend campus for those breaking the regulations.

George Trask presented a report on some material the Council had received from the National Student Association. This material concerned educational tours of Europe being sponsored by the NSA. Information will be posted on this later.

Hutton Barron, chairman of the committee that is revising the constitution, reported that the work was progressing satisfactorily.

Last week, the Student Council appointed a committee to coordinate the activities of the YMCA, the IFC, and the Union sophomore rush committees, and the Council's own work on rush. Ken Kelley and Bill Wallace are on this committee. No chairman has been appointed yet.

Sophomore Rush will be one of the main topics of discussion at the Student Council meeting next week.