PAGE FOUR

BEFORE. . . and AFTER THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Hopkins
D. G. Martin
Bernard
Hummel
Meetze
Clark
Logan
Pietenpol
Daniel
Maloney
Puckett
Davidson
McGavock
Woods
Fredericksen

England Has Crack Club Fine Arts Construction And Country Cricket Teams Caps Year Of Planning

By DON SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Managing Editor

With construction set to begin this week on the John R. Cunningham Music and Fine Arts Building, over a year’s
worth of planning and preparation has been completed. The general contract for construction was signed with the Barger Construction Company
of Mooresville. Final preliminary plans for the building were drawn up last May. In a DAVIDSONIAN interview this week, Robert
A. Currie, Business Manager of the college, gave several reasons for the delay in the letting of the contract. Ideas
from the student body and faculty for the facilities in the new building were made last spring. “We passed all
this information on to the architect,” said Currie. “During the month of June we made several trips to Winston-Salem to
meet with Mr. Lashmit concerning changes in the building.” The engineering firm of Lashmit, James, Brown, and Pollock is handling
the architectural details. “We were accompanied to Winston-Salem by Mr. Russell Graves, a lighting specialist in the drama department at
Chapel Hill. He reviewed all our plans at a final meeting in Winston-Salem late in June,” said Currie. The acoustical
firm of Bolt, Beranek and Brown, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, also acted as consultants on the building plans. Their specifications called
for unusual construction techniques. “During the month of July, there was no activity, except the architect completing the plans,” Currie
said. He explained that several last-minute changes were made by the acoustical consultants, and that Lashmit took longer than he
anticipated in drawing up the final specifications. Plans were complete about August 1. Bids were received on August 30, with
the Barger firm making a low bid of $519,300. Currie stressed that this figure included only basic construction costs. “The
figure does not include running heat and light to the building, landscaping, drains, furnishings, architect's fees, etc.” Total cost will
probably run close to $650,000. Another item still to be contracted for is the stage wagon, an unusual feature of
the Fine Arts Building. This huge stage, complete with lights and curtains, will be mounted on rollers so that it
can be stored off-stage, and set up for use with dramatic productions only. The permanent stage area will thus be
left acoustically fitted for musical performances. “The acoustical engineers had two problems to work out,” said Currie. “First, they had
to isolate the rooms from one another, and second, they had to make each room as nearly perfect as possible,
acoustically.” The second problem was approached in an unusual way. Walls in the music listening rooms will be “splayed,” or
angled from floor to ceiling. In the band rehearsal room, the chorus room, and the auditorium, a second wall will
be built, with metal baffling and wood strips, which will permit sound to reverberate behind them. To more completely “deaden”
these rooms, heavy draperies can be drawn over these false walls. The exterior of the building has been planned to
conform with the rest of the original quadrangle. It will have the traditional four columns, made of brick under a
stucco coat. The center section, housing the auditorium, will be two stories high. The wings will be of only one
story. On the roof of each wing, a high brick facing wall has been planned, to house heating and air-conditioning
equipment. Originally, two tall false chimneys were to conceal the equipment, but they have been eliminated in the final plans.
Currie assured THE DAVIDSONIAN that this added wall will not be visible from ground level around the building. The auditorium
will be the central part of the building. Interestingly enough, the stage wagon idea was suggested to the architect by
Ervin Duggan, and was modeled roughly after the auditorium in the new Jewett Fine Arts Center at Wellesley College.

Vespers Features Dr. Robert Bennett

Separate Vesper services for freshmen and upperclassmen will resume Sunday evening. The upperclass service will be conducted by Dr. Newell
in the College Church. Dr. Robert R. Bennett, Dean of Brevard College, will be the speaker at the freshmen service
to be held in Chambers Auditorium. Bennett, former professor of philosophy at East Carolina College, will speak on the topic
“Does it matter what you think?” Following the Vesper services, all students are invited to participate in Holy Communion in
Lingle Chapel. Attendance at this service will nullify a regular Vesper absence.

Martin Initiates (Continued From Page One)

evaluation of the Court of Control and suggestions as to what changes should be made in respect to it. Dr.
Martin at first refused to voice his opinion, stating, “It seems to me that if any question exists which is
a matter for which the student body ought to assume responsibility, this is it.” “It seems to me, though, as
an individual, that the type of action which we had last week certainly does not have a place in the
type of activity which we feel ought to be held in these services.” President Martin then went on to express
his desire for an advisory committee, similar to those in the “Y” camp and the orientation program, to help freshmen
adjust to life at Davidson. At the close of the program, Henry Shue expressed his hope that several more sessions
of this sort could be held this year by the Student Council.Various types between individual rooms.
By NICHOLAS COOPER
Richardson Scholar

Editor's Note: This is the second in a series of articles written by the Richardson Scholars on customs and characteristics
of their homelands, or on their impressions of Davidson.

Cricket is generally considered a typically English game, and without attempting the formidable task of explaining the rules of the
game, I would like to give some idea of the status of cricket in English society as I have known
it. I will begin with the form of cricket with which I am most acquainted — school cricket.

In all schools in which games are organized to any great extent, and which have grounds available, cricket is a
major sport in the summer; the schools to which I refer principally are the public schools and grammar schools. The
standing of the cricket team may affect somewhat the standing of the school in the eyes of the public, if
only because important cricket matches are reported in “The Times.” Moreover, since the program of our school team involved its
members in about seventeen hours of play a week, it can be seen that some sacrifice in general school life
must often be made for the game.

After school, cricket continues in three streams: village cricket, club cricket, and county cricket. Village cricket is usually played in
the evening in the two hours available after work until the light fails. Thus full-length games are impossible, and “twenty
over” cricket is played, which restricts the length of the innings. After the game, the players often repair to the
“pub,” the social center of most villages. Their cricket, like their beer drinking, is a serious social activity. Those who
aspire to greater heights are able to play in their county teams. All counties have two XI’s filled largely by
professionals; of these, the less good are often members of the ground staff of the county cricket club. County teams
are graded on a national table, and for the professionals, the incentive to win is provided by a bonus.

The cricket played under these conditions is very serious, and the first XI matches last for three days (playing for
six and a half hours a day), while second XI matches last for two days. In international cricket, the games
last for five days, and are followed enthusiastically throughout the country. The players can be either amateurs or professionals. Inasmuch
as in England everyone can play cricket at his own level, and the interest in games of all types is
considerable, it is fair to say that cricket is a thriving sport, and not to be considered a relic of
“Ye Olde England.”

W. F. Slates Picnic With Salem Group

The Davidson Westminster Fellowship announced this week that the group will have a joint meeting and picnic this Sunday with
the Westminster Fellowship of Salem College of Winston-Salem. The meeting and picnic will be held at Tanglewood Park in Winston-Salem.
Also, on October 14, the Westminster Fellowship will meet to study the book “Life Together” by Dietrich Bonhoeffer. This study
will be in preparation for the Westminster Fellowship fall synod conference to be held at Camp New Hope on October
29-30.

Fraternity Men (Continued From Page One)

Dr. Clarence J. Pietenpol, chairman of the Faculty-Fraternity Committee, stated, “I feel that the proposal made to the IFC is
a fine one.”

“Last May the Faculty felt that the solution to this question lay in some form of rushing delayed to the
sophomore year, but some have said that the sophomore rush idea was put forth to reach those very ends which
are now being proposed by students.” Dr. Pietenpol concluded, “If the fraternities will truly clear up those impositions on the
freshman’s time it will be a step in the right direction.”

Dr. William F. Goodykoontz, a member of the Faculty-Fraternity Committee, said, “I still favor sophomore rush, but I think that
these proposals are excellent ones and I hope the fraternities will consider them seriously.”

The proposed pledge training regulations were read by the representatives in their respective fraternity meetings. It is the wish of
the Interfraternity Council to find out how the fraternities feel about the proposal and try to reach some compromise between
the Faculty and fraternities regarding sophomore rush.

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1960

Umbrella Cult Founder Reviews Davidson Days
By ERVIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Ever hear of John Harmon? He's the man responsible for that black umbrella you carry. Harmon, class of ’56, was
the first to carry an umbrella at Davidson. He made them a fad; they became a tradition. He chalked up
a phenomenal academic record — then flatly refused a bid to Phi Beta Kappa.

A CHARACTER

Faculty members remember him as “interesting.” His contemporaries speak of him as “a character — a nonconformist.” Harmon returned to
Davidson for a visit last week. We interviewed him in the snack bar of the College Union.

“Nonconformist? I wasn’t a nonconformist. I just wasn't interested in what the rest of the people here were interested in.
When I was here they all believed in the usual things — you know, Mother, God, Country, that sort of
thing. I just wasn't interested, and when I found that my interests coincided with other peoples’, I didn't let it
bother me.” He lit a cigarette.

JUST PRACTICALITY

“The umbrella wasn't nonconformity, just practicality. It was cheaper to lose an umbrella than a raincoat. Now I hear that
if you don’t carry one around here, you’re considered rather strange.”

We were asking him what he considered Davidson's greatest weakness. The juke box blared, and Harmon scowled. “That's it, Rock
and Roll. When I was here, I was president of the Union Committee and I said it would be over
my dead body that we got a juke box. I understand you people didn't get that one until last year.
Well, it’s terrible.

“I don't like to think of Davidson in terms of weaknesses, but I can tell you what the greatest thing
about Davidson is. It's the spirit. Whenever Davidson graduates get together, the conversation is always about Davidson. It’s not like
that with people from other schools. Davidson people always start remembering the fantastic things that go on here, and outsiders
are always fascinated.”

MORE FREEDOM

“You've got more freedom here than we had. There’s evidently no censorship, and that’s good, up to a point. But
a little bit of censorship is a good thing.”

We asked him why he turned down the Phi Bete bid. “I was tired of seeing people after tangible reward,
I suppose. And Phi Beta Kappa seemed so final — like the end of everything. I came here with the
desire to get a Phi Bete bid, but when it came it scared me a little — like the last
rites or something.”

FULBRIGHT SCHOLAR

John Harmon won a Fulbright Scholarship and a coveted graduate scholarship to Cornell University. Now, just four years after his
graduation, he's an editor of the Publication of the Modern Language Association.

He lives in New York, but he doesn't like it. Some day, he says he wants to teach languages in
a college. Would he like to teach at Davidson?

WOULD BE NICE

“Well, I suppose so. That would be nice. I'm looking for pleasantness, after New York. And Davidson has that. And
air. Air and pleasantness. I need those.”

Outside it was raining. Students passed through the snack bar, black umbrellas on their arms. John Harmon smiled. There was
a faint suggestion of pride in his expression.

FROM FLOOR FOR MEN AND UNIVERSITY SHOP

MAY THE Best Man WIN!

$220.00 CLOTHING WARDROBE

HURRY and register Registration closes October 4th

Varsity-Town Vestwo Is “Naturally Yours”

Add a double-plus of smartness to natural-shoulder Madisonaire suit with this single-breasted vest of the suit fabric that “turns” into
a double-breasted check fabric sport vest. $9.50 TO 99.50

FREE LITTLE BLUE BOOK Complete encyclopedia of sports, football rules, schedules, scores, etc.

THE LABEL OF DISTINCTION
