Che Aavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1960

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Goals For Second Semester: Our Platform

Policy changes with a change in administration are inevitable. Editorials for the second semester of 1959-60 will be based on the following platform:

1. An enrichment of the academic program at Davidson.
   A. In order to make the educational effort a continuous process throughout four years instead of a spasmodic movement between examination periods, the DAVIDSONIAN favors a system of comprehensive examinations for seniors in their major fields of study. These examinations would be oral, and seniors would prepare for them by presenting a senior paper in their major subject.
   B. An independent reading program should be instituted. The program at Dartmouth and Mary Baldwin point the way for a well-rounded college experience.

2. An examination of moral and ethical issues on the campus. The DAVIDSONIAN will call for a reconsideration of the resolution passed by the Board of Trustees concerning the maintenance of racial segregation at Davidson. If the Trustees were guided by Christian and moral considerations, no indication of this appeared in their brief statement of last year. Questions are being asked and answers should be given.

3. A more meaningful intellectual atmosphere outside the classroom.
   A. The Great Issues series should be revised and expanded. The series can be vastly improved by developing it along the lines of the Yale Challenge Program. Nationally known speakers and pertinent topics are indispensable for a really successful program.
   B. The Artist Series is an undeveloped gold mine. The staff is available for planning, and does a good job with the funds it has available. A larger budget would greatly increase the value of the Series.

4. A more constructive role for fraternities in the life of the college. Last year’s Greek Week, improved as it was, remained destructive in spirit. Future improvement and better supervision are necessary. Fraternities should participate in community service projects during the year. Fraternity goals should be coincident with the aims of the college rather than merely parallel as they are now.

5. A more sensible relationship between the athletic and the academic phases of campus life. A complete re-evaluation of the athletic subsidization program will be made, and its place on the campus of a liberal arts institution will be questioned.

A Chance -- For Another Chance

In chapel this morning, Dee Green, speaking for the student council, proposed a modification of the penalty for violation of the honor code. The gist of this proposal is that some students dismissed for an honor violation would be allowed to return to school after a certain length of time had elapsed. This proposal already has faculty approval. At a meeting prior to today’s presentation in chapel, the faculty voted to favor such a change. The new program’s fate is now in the hands of the students. The DAVIDSONIAN believes that this program merits serious consideration by the students. We favor its adoption.

Davidson is an institution founded on Christian principles. Forgiveness is a Christian principle. Dismissal without any chance of reprieve does not measure up to the standards which are the foundation of our college. A student returning to Davidson after being expelled for cribbing would need one thing—a lot of guts. Some of his acquaintances would be gone, but many would still be in school. And they would remember. The professors would remember, too. It wouldn’t be easy to come back. It would take guts. We feel that a man who accepted the challenge and returned to what perhaps would be a hostile campus would be an asset to Davidson.

We recommend that the period of dismissal for those allowed to return be set at a minimum of two years. Two years is a long time in the life of a young man—but not too long. It is a period that could be put to other uses—substantial vocational training or the getting off of one’s service requirement. Above all, it would be a period in which to think, to decide whether or not to return to school. The proposal will be voted on next Friday. We hope in this time every student will have given it long thoughts. We believe that if it is so considered, the student body will vote for its adoption.

—J. H.

Placement Service: Good For All

One of the programs on campus that has the most potential and is most ignored is the Placement Service, operated by the College Union. Aside from the obvious benefits a graduating senior derives from the program, it offers to all freshmen, sophomores, and juniors a chance to begin thinking about a career after graduation. A comment we often hear from a senior is “I don’t know what I want to do. I haven’t thought or talked much about it.” This year the Placement Service has scheduled open interviews to meet this dilemma. Each interviewing company has set aside a half hour at four o’clock of the afternoon it is on campus to talk to all interested students. These sessions will be informal, and will involve no obligation. They are intended to give underclassmen a chance to start thinking about the problem, and to talk to company representatives. Each week’s schedule will be published in the DAVIDSONIAN. We urge all students to take advantage of this opportunity.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Dave Gillis

Associate Editor
Jim Hamilton

Managing Editors
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore

Sports Editor
B. Millner

Feature Editor
Tom Colvin

Assignments Editor
David Jordan

Copy Editor
Russ Showalter

Cartoonists
Redding Ackerman

Advertising Manager
Charlie Rowe

Circulation Mgr.
Albert McClure, Jr.

Ass’t. Business Manager
Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Auctioneer: “He was student body president, class valedictorian and a National Scholar!”
Davidson Official: “I bid three hundred dollars.”
Auctioneer: “And he’s a football player—an all-state tackle!”
Davidson Official: (Excitedly) “I bid one thousand dollars!!”

Last spring this column debated the chances of the major Presidential hopefuls. There were few issues at stake at that time. By now, as might be expected, several issues have come up, and the politicians in Washington are very busy trying to manufacture some more.

NO “SMILING IKE”

Issues, both real and otherwise, will probably mean more in November than they have in the past eight years. Neither party has a “Smiling Ike” Eisenhower to put up. The Republicans will undoubtedly point to their glorious record of peace and prosperity. Richard Nixon is trying to create the image of the good little boy who will continue Daddy Ike's policies, whatever that may be, so that all will be fine and dandy.

ALL NOT WELL

While recognizing the trend toward moderate conservatism in American politics, the Democrats recognize that all is not well with the world just because Ike says it is. Regardless of the candidate, the Democrats will emphasize civil rights, missile armaments, two-faced Republican foreign policy, and the fact that despite all the big talk, the Republicans have not quite managed to collect as much taxes as they have spent in the last few years.

KENNEDY TOPS

John F. Kennedy is the foremost Democrat at present, according to the polls. If he is nominated, his Roman Catholicism will almost surely be something of an issue. It may not be spoken so loudly as it was in Al Smith’s time, but may serve as an indicator of whether—or how much—prejudice can be educated out of the American people in a generation.

ADLAI AGAIN?

There are a lot of people who would love to see Adlai Stevenson nominated again. The question is whether a two-time loser can run and win a third time. I think only Stevenson’s nomination could answer that, and I certainly think he has more intelligence, more ability than most others, including former opponents.

Lyndon Johnson is also interested in removing a prejudice—the one against Southerners. More power to him. As far as I can tell, Symington and Humphrey are running on the general liberal Democratic ticket. I don’t have any objections to this, except I don’t think those policies can win in '60, and the Democrats need a winner.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

Alumnus Assails Conservatism; Senior Scoffs At Vespers Rule

Editor's note: The Editors welcome letters, but space limitations make it necessary that writers limit their correspondence to 250 words.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

words or less. Letters should be typed, double spaced, and addressed to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C.

Bob Jones, '58

Dear Editor:

It seems highly unfortunate to me that the letter of Rev. Hall (Jan. 8, 1960) was not taken with considerably more soul-searching than appears evident in your editorial response. Being one who usually views the Board of Trustees with a degree of suspicion, I feel encouraged by the fact one of its members is concerned enough with student affairs to record some of his opinions. And while substantive points were sacrificed for literary technique, the letter expressed a point of view with which many of your alumni readers would heartily agree.

The editorial page of that particular issue itself provided sufficient judgment on the editorial policy to substantiate Rev. Hall’s remarks and to inspire a thoroughgoing self-examination. In the first place, the ill-conceived attack on the AAUP’s stand on academic freedom, which has been affirmed not only by the Davidson chapter (as Professor Marrotte’s letter clearly stated) but by the leading colleges and universities of the country and acknowledged by a certain ex-president of Columbia, represents a wild and irresponsible attack which aptly illustrates Rev. Hall's comment on being “stuffy” and even more clearly illustrates a misunderstanding of what the AAUP actually affirmed and the issues involved.

Secondly, in your response to Rev. Hall, you listed the “crusading” points of the editorial policy. The only one of a really specific nature has been the matter of cuts. I attended Davidson under the current cut system and feel there is sufficient room for improvement to merit an editorial on the subject, possibly two. But making such a trifling matter the primary cause for which the paper stands (as your own statement seems clearly to indicate) is, frankly, the height of absurdity, a crusade of triviality.

My purpose, however, is not to rile over in criticism, but I must admit (as a faithful reader of your columns) I have been disappointed in the narrowness of outlook and often ill-grounded judgments displayed by your editorials. The Davidsonian is not the place for the editor's pet peeves. As one concerned with Davidson, I would earnestly request that Rev. Hall's point of view be taken with considerably more seriousness and respect.

Bob Jones
Davidson ’58

G. L. Gladstone

Dear Editor:

It has been said that Davidson is a unique college. I agree. Davidson is one of the few places where large student attendance at church is a problem. The powers that be have recently made a proclamation of an extra vespers cut for each class this semester. This is, in effect, a request that each class not attend church on a specific Sunday.

Now there is only one thing that makes me madder than being told that I have to go to church; and that is being told that it would be preferred that I not go to church. Students, rise up and defend your rights! Attend vespers and let nothing prevent us from having a full church every Sunday.

G. L. Gladstone, Jr.

THE HAWK'S NEST

Old Tale: Freddie Flubs, Reforms—And Falls Again

By JACK TAYLOR

Forlorn, his spirit burdened with the anguish of a failure, Freddie slumped into the dusky room and fell despondently across the unkempt bed. His pale fingers clutched a scrap of crumpled paper. He lay silent for a long time, breathing thoughtfully. Finally, he propped himself up on one elbow and began ironing out the wrinkled wad on the bedspread. Sadly, his eyes stared at the grey column of figures. The D’s were still there, black, stark, and unpitying. Freddie slumped back onto the cold sheets, despair burning his eyes, his spirit vanquished; for a long moment, he seemed dead.

But the human spirit possesses remarkable regenerative powers; with time as its only medicine, it will soon replenish itself fully. Freddie's spirit had a particularly wondrous capacity for restoration. Along with the resurging spirit, new thoughts began seeping into Freddie's destitute mind, gradually gaining momentum until they pounded through his brain with the force of surging waters.

“Two D's... I know I ain’t dumb... heck, I made B’s in high school... look at Mike—he makes B’s, and he isn’t any smarter than me... What's the difference?... Well, that isn’t hard—he studies. That’s the whole deal; he studies and I goof off. If I studied like he does, I’d make the grades he does.

“And, by God, that’s what I’m going to do. I’m going to study, and show everybody I’m not as dumb as they think. No more goofing off for me; no t.v., no flicks, no nothing but study, study, study. Work, work, work; that’s the ticket.”

His flagging energies renewed, Freddie leapt from the bed, eagerly bent on beginning the crusade against his old self. “And the place to begin work is with the rats’ nest,” he shouted above the din of his pounding thoughts. Frantically, exuberantly, he began flinging clothes in one corner, books in another, old papers and cigarette butts in a third.

The door swung open, revealing a startled Jack Olenheim. Jack was Freddie’s roommate; the sight of honest work always startled him. “What the (censored) are you doing?” he inquired cautiously.

“Before you stands the vision of life renewed,” announced Freddie grandly. “This day, this hour, marks the beginning of a new way of life for me. My motto: A clean mind in a clean body. My avowed purpose: to fulfill my divine destiny as a man of letters, a scholar in the truest sense of the word.”

“Mein Gott! you’re mad,” exclaimed Jack, relieved that nothing serious had happened. “Must I spend my days with a raving idiot? Nursemaid to a maniac—is that my destiny? Come on. Paul and Ted want to play some gin. They’re already down at the house.”

“Nope, can’t do it. Got to start out right. Away with you, vile tempter! Away I say!” Freddie stretched his arm dramatically toward the door.

“Ah, come on,” Jack demanded, grabbing the outflung arm. “We can take those guys to the cleaners. Remember last time?”

Freddie pulled back, hesitating between old desire and new ambition. “Just one short game,” Jack pleaded. “Thirty minutes. You’ve got all day and tomorrow to pursue saving grace.”

Freddie stopped at the door, still resisting feebly. “You swear no more than one game?” Jack nodded affirmatively. “All right, but absolutely none beyond one. I’m not going to goof off this semester like I did last.”

Figures On Funds Show Athletes Get Most Aid

Are athletes worth more than scholars?

No one at Davidson readily answers “yes,” but a study of average financial grants shows that Davidson's basketball and football players receive larger average grants than academic scholarship recipients. And average football grants are more than twice as large as average major academic scholarships.

Athletic Director Tom Scott this week stated (see page one) that “ideally,” athletic subsidization shouldn't exceed academic grants. “But,” said Scott, “We don’t live in an ideal situation.”

A study of scholarship statistics released by the administration confirms Scott’s observation: the situation regarding the imbalance between athletic and academic grants is hardly ideal. A section of the administration report labelled “Direct Awards to Davidson College Students, 1959-60” lists average football grants at $1050 and average major academic grants at $397. Basketball grants average $640 against an average stipend of $400 for “minor” academic scholarship winners.

The larger grants to athletes are given on the basis of athletic prowess alone. The only academic requirements are satisfactory entrance examination scores and high school records. In addition, athletic grants are seldom revoked if performance proves unsatisfactory.

Major academic scholarship winners, however, are not so lucky; they must maintain an average of “B” or better or grants are revoked.

“We figure it’s our mistake if we don't judge a boy’s ability accurately,” Athletic Director Scott stated Wednesday. But the athletic department can afford such expensive mistakes; the scholarship treasury for football grants in 1959 stood at $49,550; for major academic grants, $33,780.

Why the imbalance? It's a matter of necessity. Athletic competition is an expensive proposition, while academic competition, apparently, is not so intense. All the while, gentle controversy rages between proponents of money-for-brawn and money-for-brain. And all agree on one point: the situation is far from “ideal.”