SIDELINES | ON OPORTO inate? Baty» miter

WITH THE long-delayed I-F Swimming Meet safely out of the way, Davidson's most popular intramural sport, basketball, will swing into
play next week. THE DAVIDSONIAN, realizing that a four-game evening slate often draws more spectators to Johnston gym than a
varsity clash, decided to publish a pre-season rundown of the participants. Information on each team was provided by the sports
managers. The only significant rules change this year is the ineligibility of sophomores who won a numeral on the Freshman
team last year. The new ruling will affect four fraternities and keep six boys out of action this year. In
alphabetical order, here is the line-up for 1960:

ATO—will have to hustle to improve on last year's 5-6 record and sixth place finish. Graduation of Spence Mitchum and
Ed Lewis cost in backboard strength and shooting. Top rebounder Charlie Benson may be lost also and Bill Whitesell and
Jim Owens will have to carry the load.

Beta—finished fourth with a 6-6 record... have about the same team back, plus Richmond Rucker, returned from a European junket.
The Betas still need a big man who can score to take pressure off All-star captain Fred Lane. Billy Davis,
Jim Hamilton also Freshman Carl Hunt may help some.

KA—Hight Redman, a fugitive from the varsity, may boost the KA's into title contention. With only two losses by graduation
last year, the KA’s will field a veteran starting five including Dee Green, Julian Pleasants, Redmond, Gene Whitton, and Bill
Gayle. Should improve on their fourth place finish.

KAPPA SIG—The Kappa Sigs will be playing without ace scorer and rebounder Curlie MacQueen. Duncan Morton, Sammy Jackson, and Bob
Cook return to take up the slack... may not be as strong as last year but should improve as season
progresses. May get some freshman help.

PHI DELT—as usual, a contender. Loss of Angus McBride and Ben Harris may hurt, but top scorer and rebounder Bob
Denham, 6-6 John Packer and perhaps the league’s best backcourt brace, Freddy Pharr and Bob Davis return. Freshman Alec Gibbs
may be the difference in a tight race for the title this year.

PHI GAM—entire lineup returns to give the Fijis the most experienced team in the league... big Lou Zirkle, Tom Ridenhour,
Bob Thompson, Charlie Patterson, Bob McAllister and good bench make them the dark horse favorite again. Were co-champs last year
with the Phi Delts and SAE’s.

PIKAS—may improve on last year’s 2-10 record but still sorely need board strength. Nick Ivanoff, Jim Fouche, Waller Neal, Walter
Pharr return and may get freshman help.

PI KAPP—Quinton Boyd returns to lead the Pi Kapps, who will have to get along without Dee Lide this year.
Jim Pressly, Jerome Herring and Big Dave Nash return also... with luck, may equal last year’s 6-6 record.

SAE—lost only one starter. The SAE’s will be the fastest team in the league and may successfully defend their co-championship.
Lee Cory, Hank Pharr, Doug Orr, Pete Wyrick, Charlie Rowe, Ed Hines, and Phil Patrick return to man a strong,
smooth-running outfit.

SIGMA CHI—just about the same team that finished fifth last year. Weasel Killian, still the best ball handler in the
league, pairs with Bill Brenner in the backcourt... George Hart, Harry Cline and Finley Holmes up front... may get help
from freshman Paul Watson.

SIGMA NU—didn’t win a game last year, but with much more experience, should improve. Bill Kirkland, Art Toole and Lewis
Parker are the best returnees... freshmen Alexander Teass and Bob Miller may help the cause.

SPE—another up-hill battle... four starters return: Dan Clemmer, Mike Maddox, Melvin McKenzie and Andy Allen. Sig Eps still are short
of height, a consistent scorer.

THE INDEPENDENTS—always an unknown quality—their success usually depends on how many ball players go inactive. Returning are Tee Redding, a
fine all player, and Old Reliable, Bill Terrill.

Phi Delts, KA’s Finish In Swim Meet Deadlock

BY BILL THOMPSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

As The Davidsonian went to press, the fraternity, or fraternities, winning the Interfraternity Swim this past Thursday night had not
yet been decided. A decision was to be made this morning by the IMAC as to whether the points given
for the 200-yard relay should be five, three, two, one, or doubled to ten, six, four, two. If the points
for the 200-yard relay are not doubled, the Phi Delts and KA's will tie for the top spot with 24
points each. The SAE’s will be third with 21 and the Betas, a distant fourth, with 7½. If the points
for the relay are doubled, the Phi Delts will win with 27 points; the SAEs will be second with 26;
the KA's, third, with 25; and the Betas, fourth, with 9½. Below the first four places, the standings and points
are final. The ATOs finished fifth with 5; the Phi Gams, sixth, with 4; the Pikas, seventh, with 2; and
the Sigma Nus, eighth, with ½. The Kappa Sigs, SPE’s, Pi Kapps, Sigma Chis, and Independents failed to score.

The 150-yard medley was won by the Phi Delts with a time of 1:46.65. The SAE’s were second with 1:46.8.
Pharr, Finney, Simpson, and Sharp won by the Phi Delts’ Craig with a time of 45.7. The SAE's took first
in the 50-yard breaststroke with a time of 39.7. The 50-yard freestyle was won by Tyas John Sharp with a
27.7, while Bob Hartness of the Phi Gams was second with a 28.6. Mike Weeks of the KA’s won the
fifty-yard backstroke with a time of 33.1. The KA’s Sharp won another first by taking the 25-yard freestyle with a
12.0. Alex Gibbs of the Phi Delts was second with a 12.1. The KA’s Weeks won his second first place
by taking the 75-yard individual medley with a 55.8. George Brewer of the SAE's was second with a 56.3. The
200-yard relay was won by the SAE team of Henry.

Tankers Whip S. C. This Afternoon
Cagers Seek First Conference Win
Furman Playing Host To Luckless Wildcats

Tom Scott takes his luckless Wildcats to Furman tomorrow night in search of their first conference win. Davidson is 0-2
in the Conference. The ‘Cats are fresh from three post-holiday losses to Erskine, Clemson, and William and Mary. But they
hope to end their generous Christmas spirit.

Rose Is Diving Again; ’Cats Beat Va., W&M

BY BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Wildcat varsity swimmers rolled on to their fourth victory of the season here this afternoon, sinking South Carolina, 77-17.
Davidson took first places in every event but diving. Distance swimmer Tom Hudgins and speedster Barry Branch were double winners
for the ‘Cats, who sent the Gamecocks reeling to their third straight defeat. But the South Carolina frosh took the
opening meet from the Wildkittens, 21-15. Other winners for the Davidson varsity were John Scott, Tom French, Stephan Young, and
Bob McDonald. For the meet, Coach Shoe sported a new diver, Jack Rose, who sat out the first four contests
after performing superbly last season. Rose, along with Jennings Snider, should provide Davidson a terrific one-two punch on the plank.
Coach Shoe’s tank crew left for the holidays with successive victories over Virginia and William and Mary. “We could have
beaten them worse,” the Davidson coach said about W&M.Final score was 60-37. The Virginia meet, won by the Wildcats, 55-42,
was a different story. Davidson dropped four of the first six events. It took two wins each by Tom Hudgins
and Barry. V.M.I. was the Wildcats’ lone stumbling block, 51-39. In that meet, explained Coach Shoe, “our morale went to
pot.” As Davidson led by two points going into the backstroke, the meet official fired his pistol too soon in
the event, costing the Wildcats several points. “We weren't the same after that,” Shoe said. But as the Christmas holidays
drew near, the Wildcats were in wonderful shape. “We were within three seconds of every team record at that time
— which is pretty good,” commented the coach. None of his swimmers are undefeated this season, but Branch, a sophomore,
has been beaten only by V.M.I. in the 200-yd. individual medley. He should break some records in coming weeks. “Tom
Hudgins,” said Shoe, “will be one of the better swimmers in the conference this year. He's really working.” Next meet
for the Wildcats is a week from tomorrow with VPI.

State Matmen Hit Davidson

The Wildcat grapplers met N.C. State in Raleigh this afternoon in an attempt to get on the happy side of
the won-loss column. Davidson's record is 0-2. Pfeiffer on Tuesday and The Citadel on Thursday round out the schedule before
Exam activity. Two Atlantic Coast Conference squads, Duke and North Carolina, dropped the 'Cats in pre-holiday matches. Despite the fact
that two regulars, Milton Gee and Jim Allen, were out of the lineup, the Cats turned in a stellar performance
against Carolina on the 17th of December before bowing 16-14 in a real squeaker. It was a case of Carolina
and Fate versus the Wildcats. With Carolina leading 16-11, Alex Porter took the mat in the heavyweight division. Porter pushed
his man all over the court, trying desperately for the pin and the five points that would tie the match
at sixteen all. Porter finally succeeded in pinning his man, but two seconds too late. When the final gong sounded,
Porter had his opponent’s shoulders a bare three inches from the mat and about two hundred disappointed Davidsonians sank back
in their seats with a groan. Davidson's cause got off on the wrong foot as lack of a competitor in
the 123-pound class resulted in a forfeit to the Tarheels. The State match was supposed to have been a rough
one for the Cats. State has the same team that drubbed Davidson last year. “They have good men in the
weights where we are not so strong,” said chief mat mentor, Charlie Parker. Allen and Gee were not expected to
wrestle in this afternoon’s match. On Tuesday, Davidson returns home to meet the visitors from Pfeiffer. The Cats split with
the Panthers in two contests last year. Gee will probably be in the lineup against Pfeiffer. Davidson should be at
full steam against The Citadel on Thursday with the return of Allen, who has been out with a bum shoulder.
Allen wrestles at 167. The Citadel boasts a rugged squad that has already dumped Carolina 23-8 this year. Coach Parker,
however, was still inclined to be optimistic. “With Allen and Gee both back in the lineup we may give them
a good match.” The contest will be held in Charleston.

CAPTAIN BACK — Milton Gee, Wildcat wrestling Captain, is back in mat togs after being out due to injury for
two months. Here he talks things over with Coach Charlie Parker. Jim Allen is also back for the first time
this year. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells)

TOM HUDGINS, Davidson’s reliable distance man, is one of the reasons Coach Dwight Shoe's tankers have lost only one meet.
(Davidsonian Photos by Wells)

Four Wildcats Named To All-South Team

Four Davidson Soccer players were selected on the All-South team last month. Claude Finney, team captain for 1960, Mike Laughlin,
Tom Price, and Dick Dalton were voted to the honor squad, which covers 35 teams ranging from Maryland down to
Florida. The honor men were voted on by referees and coaches after each game. The votes were tabulated at the
end of the season. Five players were selected for each position, making up five separate teams. Players selected on the
Southern first team are usually designated on some All-American team. Finney was selected fourth team goalie for the third year
in a row. The remaining three Davidson players were fifth team selections. Mike Laughlin beat out a UNC star who
was a third team selection last year at center forward. Price was selected at left wing while Dick Dalton was
tabbed for left fullback. This was Dalton’s first year playing soccer. Most of the first and second team selections were
from soccer powers Maryland and Navy, Johns Hopkins and Baltimore University. Davidson placed more players on the All-South squad than
any school below Maryland except Lynchburg College. Duke had two men and UNC placed three men on the honor squad.
Coach Paul Marrotte announced that a two-week “spring practice” for soccer would be held sometime in February.

Have a real cigarette — Have a CAMEL

The best tobacco makes the best smoke!

B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

Davidson opened up its post-holiday season with an embarrassing New Year's Eve loss to lowly-regarded Erskine. Davidson tried to shake
its Christmas spirit Saturday night for their battle with Clemson at the Charlotte Coliseum. The team gave one of its
best efforts of the year before bowing to the Tigers in an overtime, 66-60. The inspired performance of the Wildcats
resulted in an exciting game all the way. Charlotte basketball fans cheered loudly for Davidson for the first time in
many years. But the ‘Cats jumped back on Santa’s sleigh Monday night. They handed William and Mary their first victory
in three games 72-64. Davidson was never behind very far, but the team never developed a consistent attack. The brightest
spot in the post-holiday play has been the discovery of added depth in the Davidson bench. Sophomore Tom Harris, who
has ridden the bench most of the year, played a fine offensive game against Clemson. He led the team with
14 points. Harris will be pushing for a starting role in the remainder of the season. Another sophomore, Bob Moore,
also came into his own. Moore, who has seen little action this year, was called off the bench late in
the game with William and Mary. Regular center Eddie Stewart had fouled out and Joe Markee, the second center, had
sprained his ankle. Moore scored seven points and pulled down five rebounds in a fine performance. The Wildcats led at
the half and commanded a ten-point lead early in the second half. At this point Erskine popped on a press,
and took advantage of careless Davidson ball handling to melt the lead and win going away 77-68. Bill Shinn topped
the scoring attack with 26 points. Davidson will continue its search for a Conference win next week against V.M.I. and
Virginia Tech. The ‘Cats entertain V.M.I. here on Monday night and will travel to Virginia Tech Wednesday night. V.M.I. is
much improved over last year’s team which lost the annual battle royal between Davidson and V.M.I. to see who will
be left out of the Conference tournament. Presently, the Keydets are keeping the Wildcats company in the Conference cellar with
an 0-3 record. They lost to William and Mary by one point.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. - CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Have a CAMEL

TURKISH & DOMESTIC BLEND CIGARETTES
