FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN

A LOOK AT... | SPORTS By Bill Godwin

Intramural Champs

The intramural softball and tennis seasons will end in less than two weeks. In Reins of the Intramural Athletic Council
changed the overall leadership Wednesday night. But, with outgoing president Phil Finch conducting his final business meeting, the tremursl are
ready to lose after MAC voted to keep changes of student intramural status for three consecutive years. This was not
a spur-of-the-moment decision. The IMAC has been exploring the “problem” of inactive fraternity brothers all semester long. First, it declared
inactives ineligible for the spring sports following basketball and handball. This action prompted a faculty resolution advising the IMAC to
allow inactives to participate on the Independent teams in the Intramural Athletic league. The IMAC chose to reaffirm its ruling.

An Ill-Attended Meeting...

Further action was to be taken at a meeting scheduled for April 20. Only five fraternities and the Independents were
represented at that meeting, however, and the lack of a quorum necessitated postponement of a definite, long-range ruling until this
week.

The Thirty-Day Wait

The ruling passed Wednesday will go into effect this fall. It states: Any student may change his intramural status once,
and only once, after the beginning of his sophomore year. In order to change his status, he must register with
the IMAC and serve a 30-day period of ineligibility after this registration. Furthermore, no student shall be allowed to play
on two teams in the same sport during the same season. (The IMAC defined an intramural status change under this
condition: When a boy changes his participation on one team to participate on another team.)

A Three-Way Compromise

Finch explained that the new ruling “complies with the faculty recommendation, protects the fraternities, and protects the Independents.” What about
the individual student? Is he protected? We will go along with the reasoning that a compromise is sometimes needed when
a black-or-white solution seems far off. But this compromise cramps what we feel to be the primary objective of the
IMAC: To ensure the right of every Davidson student to participate in intramural athletics.

Inhibition and Practicality...

The new ruling does not destroy the student's right to play. It does greatly inhibit, if not destroy, the student's
willingness to join or quit a fraternity. Perhaps this ruling is the most practical solution to the inactive “problem,” but
surely, it is not the fairest. We urge the new IMAC representatives and president Mike Van Doeren to restore the
group’s objective to full strength, and to make rulings accordingly.

Softball results posted since last Wednesday's DAVIDSONIAN deadline are as follows:

Monday—the Kappa Sigs walloped the SAE's 29-1; the Phi Gams beat the KA’s 9-5; the Sigma Chis defeated the Independents
12-11; the Phi Delts beat the Pi Kapps and the ATO’s bested the Sig Eps. Tuesday—the Pikas nosed the SAE’s
5-4; the Kappa Sigs battered the Sigma Nus 10-6 and the Betas trounced the Sigma Chis 15-4. Wednesday—the Phi Delts
edged the SAE's 9-7; the Pikas nudged the Sigma Nus 5-4; the ATO’s whipped the Betas 15-7; the Kappa Sigs
downed the Sig Eps and the Phi Gams outscored the Pi Kapps.

Initial tennis singles results posted are: John Warlick (Sig Ep) over Steve Maxwell (ATO) 6-4, 1-6, 7-5, and Bill Gayle
(KA) 6-3, 8-6; Newt Burns (Sigma Chi) over John Rogers (KS) and Duke Davis (Phi Delt); and Tom Slane (Pika)
over Allen Wilson (Independent) 6-2, 6-2.

Davidson Baseballers Hit VP Tomorrow By FRANK PYLE Davidsonian Sports Writer

SET THE NETS STRAIGHT—Davidson’s tennis team is in Washington, D. C., this weekend for the Southern Conference championship matches. Kneeling
(l-r): Andy Sherrill, Doug Orr, Finley Lee, Jim Hamilton. Standing: Hank Sims (manager), Bobby Snead, Harry Broome, Stefan Young, Coach
Ted Keesler. (Photo by Wells).

S.C. Golf By CARL RUST Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College Golf Team captured the Southern Conference Championship last Monday and Tuesday at Mid-Pines with a score of
625 and a team average of 78. The Wildcats led the second place Citadel club by six strokes, and George
Washington finished in eighth place with a score of 666.

In 1958, the Wildcats tied George Washington for the conference title, and last year they lost to George Washington by
four strokes, but this year the determined ‘Cats came out on top.

STANLEY MEDALIST

Verner Stanley was the conference medalist with a 75 on the first 18 holes and a 73 on the second
for a total of 148. Tom Johnson was third medalist with a score of 155. The scores of the other
linksters were: Sut Alexander, 157; Curley MacQueen, 165; Bob Avinger, 170; and Eb LeMaster, 171. Claude Finney made the trip,
but he didn’t participate in the tournament.

The Wildcats, so far this season, have a percentage of .500 with eight wins and eight losses. The Davidson Club
dropped two matches to Wake Forest, two to U. N. C., one to N. C. State and one to The
Citadel.

STATE ON MONDAY

The final with N. C. State will be on Monday. When asked about the team’s chances against State, Coach Scott
replied, “State beat us pretty handily up there by a score of 18 to 9, and we'll probably be a
little down after the tournament.”

From this season's team, everybody graduates except Verner Stanley. Stanley has been the high point man all year with 18
points out of a possible 24.

OTHER POINT TOTALS

Tom Johnson captured 11½ points, Sut Alexander, 7; Eb LeMasters, 7½; Curley MacQueen, 10½; Bob Avinger, 3½; and Claude Finney,
3. Coach Scott stated, leaning back in his chair with a big smile, “We have had a great season this
year! This group of boys has done a good job, and with only Stanley returning, our freshmen are going to
have some pretty big shoes to step into.”

PAGE THREE

Foes Advance In SC Tourney Today By STEVE CLARK Davidsonian Sports Writer

WASHINGTON, D. C.—The Davidson College tennis team completed a highly successful afternoon by taking two out of three doubles matches
in yesterday's opening round of the Southern Conference tournament here. In singles matches, the ‘Cats won five out of five,
and drew one bye.

Leaving Davidson on Tuesday afternoon, the ‘Cats first stop was William and Mary, where they played a match Wednesday. The
results of this match were not available at press time. However, the ‘Cats were heavily favored to win, and should
have done so easily. Then, yesterday, a highly confident group of tennis players from Davidson really “showed their stuff” as
they dominated the first round of play.

Van Doeren New IMAC President

Rising junior Mike Van Doeren took over the reins of the Intramural Athletic Council Wednesday night from Tyree Finch. Also
elected to serve as officers for the 1960-61 year were Independent John Ricks, vice president, and Phi Delt John Harris,
secretary. Van Doeren, a Beta, was chosen following an IMAC ruling on intramural inactives (see sports column). IMAC representatives for
next year are: Spud Stewart, ATO; Van Doeren, Beta; John Sharp, Kappa Alpha; Joe Kelly, Kappa Sig; Harris, Phi Delt;
Sanders;Bye into Friday's action. The results were as follows: Doug Orr whipped Christmas of Furman, 6-1, 6-0; Finley Lee downed
Anderson of Furman, 6-4, 6-0; Harry Broome battered Williams from VPI, 6-1, 6-0; Sophomore Andy Sherrill downed Brown of VMI,
6-2, 6-0; Stefan Young defeated Johnson, another Keydet, 6-0, 6-1; and Jim Hamilton drew a bye. All six of these
Wildcats advanced into today's semifinals, in which another victory would bring a promotion into tomorrow's finals. The doubles contests were
not quite as successful as the singles for Davidson, but two out of three pairs of Wildcat partners came out
victorious. Doug Orr and Finley Lee were beaten by Duke and Williams of VPI, 6-4, 6-0; Andy Sherrill and Harry
Broome teamed up to down Farleigh and Brown from VMI, 6-0, 6-2; and Sophomores Stefan Young and Bob Snead combined
their talents to defeat Gandy and Caserta from William and Mary, 7-5, 6-1. Sherrill and Broome, and Young and Snead
advanced into today’s semi-finals. Although the ‘Cats did not take an outstanding record (5-9) to Washington with them, they did
carry along a lot of confidence and plenty of talent. Coach Keesler pointed out, “The tough schedule we have played
should help us tremendously in the tournament.”

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Davidson’s baseballers traveled to Blacksburg, Va. today for two games with VPI today and tomorrow. Then next Friday and Saturday,
May 13, and 14, the ’Cats go to The Citadel for two games with the conference leader. VPI, described by
Coach Tom Stevens as a “very good team,” was upset twice by Furman last week. Asked about Davidson’s chances, Stevens
said he didn’t know, that the team makes too many mental mistakes.

STARTING PITCHERS
Dee Green is scheduled to start the first game with either Graham Showalter or Nick Daves hurling the second game.
Davidson will close out its baseball season with next week's two games with The Citadel. Citadel, whose only loss this
season was to VMI, was described by Coach Stevens as a “good-hitting team with two real good hurlers.” Last Saturday
Davidson lost the first game of a scheduled double-header with Furman by 6-1 while the second game was washed out.
Dee Green took the loss.

TWO MORE LOSSES
Then on Thursday of this week the ’Cats dropped two games to Pfeiffer College by scores of 8-2 and 5-1.
Nick Daves started the first game and took the loss with Jerry Shelton relieving. In the second game Graham Showalter
pitched the first 5 innings, giving up three runs, with Green finishing up. Shortstop Don Killian was the only bright
spot as the Wildcats again exhibited their loose defense.

LEADING HITTERS
First-baseman “Thumper” Harris leads the ‘Cats at the plate with a .375 average. He is followed by Ed Hines and
Russ Cotton, batting at .362 and .327, respectively. Hines is the best RBI man for the ‘Cats, while Cotton is
the most improved at the plate. Coach Stevens said, “We've been hitting, but not with men on base, and this
is where we are poor.” Dee Green, the workhorse of the pitching staff, has compiled a 3-5 record. Nick Daves
has a 2-2 record, Jerry Shelton's is 1-1, while Graham Showalter has won none against two losses.

CLOCK WATCHER—Coach Pete Whittle keeps close tab on his track teams, which have run up a 30-year record of 121
wins, 51 losses and 2 ties. (Photo by Wells).

Coach For 30 Years:
“Track is very different now from what it was when I was in college,” said Davidson’s likable track coach, Pete
Whittle, THE DAVIDSONIAN’S “Wildcat of the Week.” Whittle graduated from Davidson in 1930 and is now in his thirtieth year
as track coach here. In those years, his teams have compiled an impressive record of 121 wins, 51 losses, and
2 ties, in dual meets. Included in those totals is his team’s 4-2 record this year. In addition, his cindermen
scored 53 1/3 points to take the High Point Relays last Saturday.

Thinclads Win Relays; Loop Meet Next Week
By JIM PRESSLY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s hot track team (5-2) outscored a field of seven colleges here Saturday to take the second annual High Point
Relays. The Relays, which will be rechristened the Davidson Relays, saw ten of last year’s records broken. The Wildcats, bound
for the Southern Conference meet next weekend, compiled 53 1/3 points, taking a 9-point win over second place Roanoke College.
Presbyterian was third with 27 points and Lenoir Rhyne, High Point, Catawba, and Atlantic Christian rounded out the field, finishing
in that order. Davidson, led by Laughlin and Kiser, finished strong in the relays, taking first in the 880-yard relay
and the 440-yard relay. The 'Cats also dominated the broad jump and hop-step-and-jump, with Laughlin, Murray, and Chiles taking second,
third, and fourth in both events. Andy Boggs and Stuart Nickles had second places in the discus and javelin respectively.
High-jumper John Huie failed to come up to his previous performances, but, along with Tim Lucas, was part of a
4-way tie for second place in the pole vault. Warden took third in the shot.

Pole-vaulter Henry Pharr aggravated an old prep school knee injury. He was operated on Sunday morning. Distance runner, David Gilmour
developed a cramp early in the mile lap of the distance medley, but finished the race. Still limping, Gilmour is
due for a check-up to determine the extent of the injury. Coach Whittle will take nineteen men to the conference
meet in Williamsburg on May 13-14. Asked to comment on the outcome of the meet, he said, “You can usually
tell how these meets will come out before you start. Citadel will probably win again this year, with Furman second.
The rest will fight it out for lower places.”

When Whittle was on the track team at Davidson, he ran the 120-yard high hurdles, the 220-yard low hurdles, and
the 100-yard dash. In tough meets, he would also run the 220 and compete in the broad jump. He held
school records in both of the hurdles until one of his pupils, Archie Taylor, broke them in 1942. At an
indoor meet at West Virginia, he tied the world’s record in the 70-yard low hurdles. In explaining how track has
changed since his college days, Whittle pointed out that one of the major differences is in the new and old
methods of training. He said that the practice of much overdistance running has been replaced by interval running, even for
distance men. “Today, too, there is much more concentration on form than there used to be. Also, there is more
interest now in track than ever before,” the successful coach added. The coach is very proud of his son who
is a freshman at UNC and on a track scholarship. Heath, Jr. has cleared 13 feet in the pole vault
and should soon clear 13 feet, 6 inches. The traditional freshmen cake race held at the beginning of each school
year was started by Whittle about 21 years ago. “Through it, I've found some real good distance men,” he said.

The best tobacco makes the best smoke! U. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C. cigarette—have a CAMEL
