STUDENT COUNCIL ABOLITION? (See Page Two) VOL. XLVIII

IFC Declares Strong Stand On Regulation Enforcement

Constructive Projects Suggested, Encouraged

By BOB MOORE
Davidsonian Managing Editor

“The Interfraternity Council will take a strong stand this year in enforcing the Greek Week regulations,” stated IFC president Ward
McKeithen in a DAVIDSONIAN interview Monday night. “It will be the duty of the IFC representatives to enforce the regulations
in their respective fraternities and report all violations to the Interfraternity Council. The council will impose fines upon those fraternities
guilty of violating any of the regulations.”

“The IFC has attempted to clarify the regulations and make them more specific,” McKeithen continued. “It is now up to
the individual fraternities to see that the regulations are enforced.”

Pete Kellogg was elected Chairman of the Elections Board at its organizational meeting last Wednesday. Nominations for Student Body President
will be made next Thursday.

Council Conducts Poll: Debates Own Suicide

By KNOX ABERNETHY

Last Monday night the Student Council met to revise the order of elections, to conduct an accurate opinion poll on
integration, and to discuss several other issues, including the abolishment of the Student Council.

Elections will be run in five groups this year, in the following order: 1) Student Government, 2) Honor Court, 3)
Y.M.C.A. and publications, 4) Freshman adviser, 5) Class officers and Student Council representatives. In the fifth group, Student Council representatives
will be elected from each class, and the representative receiving the most votes will be the class president.

It was suggested that the Student Council keep a bulletin board during elections. On this bulletin board would be posted
pictures and information on all the candidates. Councilman Bob Avinger suggested that the Council sponsor an open forum on the
opinions of each of the persons running for office.

Council members Avinger and Hudgins spearheaded a discussion on whether or not to abolish the Student Council. Avinger suggested that,
since there is little or nothing for the Council to do, representatives not be elected for next year. He proposed
that the class officers meet on occasion to run student elections and to represent the student body.

President Green announced that he would invite Honor Court chairman Bobby Livingston to the next Council meeting. This issue will
then be discussed at length.

The Council voted to circulate two petitions to take an opinion poll on the integration issue. The poll is being
taken to get an accurate sample of student opinion. The Council also discussed chapel and vespers conduct, in light of
the Council’s recent action. Suggestions were also offered on how to improve student-trustee communications.

Equality, Liberty And Fraternities

By HANS RENK

Coming from the very liberal and individualistic system of a European urban University to a small, self-sufficient College in the
South of the United States is quite a change, you will agree. But eight students from seven countries have taken
that step this year, trading many of the obvious advantages of their educational systems for the bigger advantage of spending
one year in the United States.

In order that the foreign student can get most out of this year, the program provides almost complete equality with
the Davidson student as far as classes are concerned. The status of special student and exemption from ROTC are the
only privileges. We accept all this as a matter of course, though many regulations must seem absurd to students from
abroad, used to complete freedom in his studies.

Another, probably the biggest, difference between the two systems is that the student in America lives on campus all the
time, unlike his European counterpart. For this reason, the question of equality does not stop on the academic side. It
continues into all that is known as the “Davidson way of life”, especially the social life. And this in Davidson
means: Fraternities. In anticipation of this fact, the scholarship program has provided for each foreign student to be the guest
of a fraternity.

How does that work out in practice? Naturally, a fraternity requires a great amount of conformity. Even some American students
find it difficult to conform to this degree. It is not surprising that a foreign student, with his different cultural,
educational, and social background should find conformity harder than others. Although not specifically required, he feels somehow obliged to attempt
this. But is this the idea of the program?

The official statement of the Richardson Foundation, the sponsor of the program, lists as its main purposes: “to promote international
understanding ...” and “to broaden the horizons of the Davidson Campus”. Most of us find that the fraternities, instead of
promoting contacts with American students, tend to limit one’s acquaintances to within the fraternity. The amount of contact depends to
a large extent on the individual fraternity. In a fraternity with a strictly regional outlook, for instance, a student from
a different country will find less interest in himself as a representative of foreign ideas and culture. In any case,
the student gets attention as a curiosity, rather than genuine interest for his own sake. This is something perfectly natural.
The foreign student, on one hand, has his strange “foreign ideas”, and on the other hand, the Davidson student is
influenced by the ideas of his traditional Southern society. Can these two ever communicate on a more significant level than
the arrangement of dates and going up the road? The “promotion of international understanding” means more than this.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1960

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

CATFISH MEET CITADEL (See Page Three) NUMBER NINETEEN

56 Scholarship Finalists Will Compete Next Week

The Annual Scholarship Weekend will be held from Wednesday, March 2, to Saturday, March 5. About 56 finalists will be
on campus to compete for approximately 50 scholarships ranging in value from $1400 a year to Honorary Scholarships with no
stipend.

The finalists will come in two groups. Group A will be on campus from Wednesday night to Friday noon and
Group B from Thursday night to Saturday noon. While at Davidson, the finalists will undergo a series of tests and
be interviewed by the Scholarship Committee consisting of Dr. McGavock, as chairman, Dr. Ratliff, Dr. Fredericksen, Dr. Marrotte, and Dean
White. Also, the competitors will attend several classes and other student activities. They will eat several meals at various fraternity
houses.

Eleven of the finalists are from North Carolina. Harry Nolan, Mark Riley, and Jerry Trammell are from Shelby. From Durham
are Bill McPherson and Sidney Moore. The remaining six are: Wayne Frye, Tarboro; Roger Laney, Albemarle; Fred McGuirt, Lumberton; Jimmy
Rogers, Statesville; Tony Smithson, Winston-Salem; and Scott Summers, Morganton.

Eight are from South Carolina: Johnny Arriail, Greenville; Woody Danenhower, Pendleton; Carl Foster, Columbia; Jimmy Lewis, Mullins; Joe McCutchen, Laurens;
Bill Pridgen, Myrtle Beach; Floyd Propst, Winnsboro; and Gus Speth, Orangeburg.

From Tennessee there are also eight: Phil Lewis, John Rankin, and Robert Reynolds all from Kingsport. From Knoxville are Danny
Batson and Robert Marquis. Others are Brent Seagle, Bristol; Robert Dillard, Memphis; and Richard Dixon, Nashville.

Six are from Georgia: Joe Martin and Buzzy Stubbs from Atlanta. Others are Hubert Bell, Elberton; Tom Dennis, Macon; Dee
Fuller, Milledgeville; and Emory Whitaker, Waynesboro.

Five are from Florida: Frank Byrd, Jack Herbert, and Bill Logan, all from Lakeland. The others are Grier Edmunds, North
Miami; and Emile Roth, Jacksonville.

There are four from Virginia. They are Phillip Burks, Bedford; Bill Evitts, Arlington; Dick Forrester, Blackstone; and Charles Rowe, Lynchburg.

Two Kentuckians, Bill Brown of Hazard and Michael Dennis of Louisville, are also finalists. From Ohio are John Meincer of
Toledo, and Harold Beck of Port Clinton. The two Mississippi finalists are Jack Kiely of Vicksburg and Robert Munford of
Jackson. From Maryland are Charles Gunnoe of Towson and Robert Renner of Baltimore.

The six remaining finalists are Keith Childers, San Antonio, Texas; Tom Day, South Charleston, West Virginia; Greg Govan, Metairie, Louisiana;
Richard Hastings, Newark, Delaware; Michael MacMurray, Ballston Lake, New York; and David Schade, Washington, D.C.

ROTC Announces Course Changes

Lt. Col. W. A. Adams, Jr. announced this week that there may be some changes in the ROTC course when
students enroll for the fall term next year. The two main changes that would affect our present program are, 1)
the removal of weapons instructions, such as study of the crew-served weapons, and 2) the reduction of drill from two
hours a week to one hour.

To replace the hours lost in these changes there would be an increase in academic work in the classroom and
possibly a requirement for certain academic courses. However, Col. Adams revealed that about 99% of the advanced military students are
already taking the subjects that would be required.

Col. Adams concluded, “Right now these changes are only recommendations to the curriculum committee. The final decision is up to
them, and from all indications, they will make the changes effective next year.”is scheduled for March 1-25. The general theme
is “Romanticism.” The festival will consist of a series of lectures on Romantic literature, several concerts of Romantic music, and
exhibitions of Romantic art. Dr. A. Howard Carter, chairman of the department of English at the University of Arkansas, will
open the festival with a lecture on March 1 in the Union ballroom on “Romanticism in the 19th Century.” This
will be a general lecture used as a foundation for the entire program. This lecture, as well as all other
lectures and concerts, is at 8:15. Dr. Joseph C. Sloane, chairman of the department of art, director of Ackland Museum
at U.N.C., and author of several books, will lecture on the romantic artist Delacroix on March 7. Color slides will
accompany his address. On March 16, the Artist Series will feature Anton Kuerti, pianist, in a concert in Chambers Auditorium.
In keeping with the theme of the festival, Mr. Kuerti’s program will include romantic music. William McGowan, organist, will present
a concert on April 25 in the College Church. Franck’s Piece Heroique will be among the pieces performed. On April
26 in Chambers Auditorium, Louise Pfohl, pianist, will present a program, which will include Schumann's Sonata in G minor. The
Queens College Choir and the Davidson College Male Chorus will present a program in Chambers Auditorium on April 28. The
program will include Faure’s Requiem and selections from Brahms’ Liebeslieder Waltzes. On May 6, the Davidson College Chamber Orchestra will
present a concert in Chambers Auditorium. An exhibition of Romantic art will be displayed in the Union ballroom from March
7-25. This display will consist of reproductions of Romantic paintings and comments on individual artists. There will also be a
display of original prints by the Spanish artist Francisco de Goya in the foyer of Chambers from March 6-25. These
prints will be for sale. Of special interest is an essay written by Dr. Richard Calhoun on “The Climate of
Romanticism,” which will appear in the program for the Festival. Dr. Calhoun wrote this essay especially for this year's festival.
The Fine Arts Festival Committee is made up of Dr. Pedro Trakas, C. Shaw Smith, Professors John Satterfield, and Douglas
Houchens. Dr. Trakas, chairman, said, "The committee feels that we are gaining ground every year. We expect a bigger turnout
this year and are hoping for more response and more support from the college, because we feel it is a
very valuable part of a liberal education.” Dr. Trakas also said that it is possible that the Red and Black
Masquers may present a Romantic play or reading in connection with the Festival, but this is not yet definite.

Question: Though the IFC has made specific rulings against particular pre-initiation activities such as the use of brick or rock
sacks, what is to prevent fraternities from getting around the rule by making their pledges carry books instead of rocks
in sacks? How would this be breaking a regulation?

Answer: Though carrying books in a sack is not a violation of a specific regulation, I would say that it
is a distasteful practice, and therefore, a violation of the pre-initiation regulations.

Question: Where are you going to draw the line between calisthenics and excessive calisthenics?

Answer: The interpretation will be up to the discretion of the individual USC representatives and pledge trainers.

Question: To your knowledge have there been any violations of the pre-initiation regulations this year?

Answer: There were two violations prior to the release of the regulations, but the guilty fraternities will not be fined
as they did not know the regulations. The IFC intends, though, to talk to the officers of the guilty fraternities.

Question: Has the IFC made any additional attempts, other than the pre-initiation regulations, to prevent this year’s Greek Week from
becoming another “Hell Week”?

Answer: Yes, Each fraternity pledge trainer must turn in for the approval of the IFC a detailed outline of what
the pledge class will be doing and what apparel the class will be required to wear. A fraternity will be
fined for pledge class activities during Greek Week which are not included in the outline. The IFC feels that the
addition of a banquet on Monday night of Greek Week and a pledge skit night on Thursday night will add
to the constructive nature of the week. The council has placed major emphasis on the procurement of good constructive projects,
for the success or failure of the week will depend upon the projects.

Regarding a possible IFC sponsored concert series, McKeithen said, “I'm very enthusiastic about initiating a concert series on campus. The
series will consist of a combination of musical concerts and lectures featuring such groups as Dave Brubeck and the Kingston
Trio. The financial support must come through a fraternity assessment of about $6.00 per member at the beginning of next
year. If all the fraternities vote to support the concert series, the IFC will be able to provide good entertainment
without financial difficulties.”

Question: Is there any possibility of having delayed rush next year?

Answer: At the end of Rush Week this year the IFC decided to maintain the present situation. It is still
an open question, and I intend to appoint a committee to investigate the possibility.

Question: Are you concerned about the current rise in the number of fraternity inactives?

Answer: I am not alarmed unless it is indicative of a weakness of individual fraternities, or of the fraternity system
as a whole. I feel we should listen to the criticism the recent inactives have to offer, and I am
pleased with the strength they have given the independents.

The IFC voted in its last meeting to have the independents elect a non-voting representative to the council; the presence
of an independent on the council will improve the channel of communication between the independents and fraternity members.

Question: Do you think the fraternity system is in good health?

Answer: Yes.

Question: Do you think there are any signs of weakness within the fraternity system?

Answer: I don’t think the fraternities have been living up to their ritual, but I do believe the fraternity organizations
are well worthy of their existence.

Question: There have been complaints that the quality of freshman work drops at the beginning of the second semester when
the freshman pledges become more closely connected with the fraternities. Do you feel that this is the fault of the
fraternities?

Answer: I wouldn't say that it is the fault of the fraternities for it is natural for everyone to ease
up at the beginning of the semester. Also, fraternities do not emphasize grades as much to the pledges who have
made their grades, therefore the quality of work naturally drops off.

Monday morning, Professor W. F. Goodykoontz turned the attention of his freshman classes to what he feels is one of
the gravest problems facing the school—the fraternity system. Goodykoontz invited Dave Warden, who has recently gone inactive in his fraternity,
to discuss at his Monday and Tuesday classes the current fraternity situation. As IFC president, Ward McKeithen was asked to
present his views on Wednesday and Thursday.

Professor Goodykoontz explained that he was devoting class time to the fraternity question because he has found that the academic
performance of the freshmen has fallen sharply since they have started eating at the fraternity houses at the beginning of
this semester. “Freshmen performance has taken this nose dive because of the increased amount of time they have to spend
on the fraternity,” he claims. “It seems quite evident to me that the fraternities are interfering with the recognized goals
of an educational institution.”

Warden proceeded to list five things which he thought were indicative of Davidson's illness.

WARDEN LISTS ILLS

(1) There is a general lack of spirit in sports, drama, debating, and all other college activity.

(2) The majority of seniors are anxiously looking forward to leaving the school after graduation. Many say that they will
be glad to get out of this school and that they are promptly going to forget about it.

(3) Freshmen come to Davidson with ability and motivation to do a big job. Generally, first semester motivation falls off.
This situation Warden attributes to fraternity associations as the fraternities do not really encourage studying.

(4) The faculty is asking, “Why don't the students respond to the strength they have given the independents?”

The IFC voted in its last meeting to have the independents elect a non-voting representative to the council; the presence
of an independent on the council will improve the channel of communication between the independents and fraternity members.

Question: Do you think the fraternity system is in good health?

Answer: Yes.

Question: Do you think there are any signs of weakness within the fraternity system?

Answer: I don’t think the fraternities have been living up to their ritual, but I do believe the fraternity organizations
are well worthy of their existence.

Question: There have been complaints that the quality of freshman work drops at the beginning of the second semester when
the freshman pledges become more closely connected with the fraternities. Do you feel that this is the fault of the
fraternities?

Answer: I wouldn't say that it is the fault of the fraternities for it is natural for everyone to ease
up at the beginning of the semester. Also, fraternities do not emphasize grades as much to the pledges who have
made their grades, therefore the quality of work naturally drops off.

Monday morning, Professor W. F. Goodykoontz turned the attention of his freshman classes to what he feels is one of
the gravest problems facing the school—the fraternity system. Goodykoontz invited Dave Warden, who has recently gone inactive in his fraternity,
to discuss at his Monday and Tuesday classes the current fraternity situation. As IFC president, Ward McKeithen was asked to
present his views on Wednesday and Thursday.

Professor Goodykoontz explained that he was devoting class time to the fraternity question because he has found that the academic
performance of the freshmen has fallen sharply since they have started eating at the fraternity houses at the beginning of
this semester. “Freshmen performance has taken this nose dive because of the increased amount of time they have to spend
on the fraternity,” he claims. “It seems quite evident to me that the fraternities are interfering with the recognized goals
of an educational institution.”

Warden proceeded to list five things which he thought were indicative of Davidson's illness.

WARDEN LISTS ILLS

(1) There is a general lack of spirit in sports, drama, debating, and all other college activity.

(2) The majority of seniors are anxiously looking forward to leaving the school after graduation. Many say that they will
be glad to get out of this school and that they are promptly going to forget about it.

(3) Freshmen come to Davidson with ability and motivation to do a big job. Generally, first semester motivation falls off.
This situation Warden attributes to fraternity associations as the fraternities do not really encourage studying.

(4) The faculty is asking, “Why don't the students respond to the strength they have given the independents?”

The combined presentation of the Sullins College Choir and the Male Chorus was termed a success by those attending the
concert. They sang to a half-filled Chambers auditorium.
