The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Rough Seas For The Vagabonds

It’s been rough sailing recently for the Vagabonds. The dedicated little crew of drama-lovers has been fighting a flood of
troubles—big troubles and little nagging annoyances. Now it’s beginning to look as though the Vagabonds Success Story may turn into
a Sob Story. A tiny staff is swamped with work: rehearsals, set design, publicity, lighting, budget-stretching, subscription sales, casting, and
a host of other jobs. For a while a bizarre financial plan, hog-tied in red tape, made paupers of the
Vagabonds—even though they had a bank account. It worked like this: Vagabond Treasurer Bob Denham couldn't even write a check.
All expenditures had to be approved first by Bursar McGill and then by Business Manager Currie. No new cash could
be drawn until the last pocketful had been completely used up. One Vagabond staff member said recently that “the only
non-Vagabonds who have given 100-per cent support are President Martin, Leonard Hunsucker and a small group of faculty wives.”

The Vagabonds aren’t looking for sympathy. Just enthusiasm and participation. We can give them that—and we should.

E. S. D.

A Hangover For New Year's

Dr. J. T. Drake said this week in a DAVIDSONIAN interview that the Committee on Academic Scheduling hasn’t considered the
possibility of extending the Christmas holidays to include Monday, January 2 (see page four). At present classes will begin on
January 2. Students will thus have to return to school on New Year’s Day when there will be heavy traffic
on the roads and public transportation facilities will be overcrowded.

Most likely over 50 per cent of the student body will cut Monday classes since the New Year’s Day football
games will be televised on Sunday and many of the students will wish to remain at home to watch the
games. Those students who cannot afford to take double cuts on Monday will be forced to return to school after
being up until late hours the night before, attending New Year’s Eve parties. Fatigue is certainly not conducive to safe
driving and the lives of many Davidson students will be endangered. We feel that the administration should consider the risk
of returning to school under these conditions.

Dr. Drake has said that he doesn’t feel that the college will lose its accreditation if the number of first
semester class days is decreased by one. The main remaining argument against a one day holiday extension is that professors
will have one less day of classes in which to teach. We do not feel that a one day decrease
in classes will significantly injure the academic standards of the college and seriously wonder if enough students will attend classes
on Monday to make them worthwhile. Many of the students who do attend Monday classes after remaining at home to
see the football games will arrive at Davidson late Sunday night and will not be very receptive to lectures on
Monday morning.

We recommend that the administration reconsider its decision as it is not realistic and shows a definite lack of foresight.

R. L. M.

Diversification Or Eating Clubs?

When the faculty met November 1 to conduct its regular business and to discuss Sophomore Rush, Dr. John B. Gallent
proposed that the fraternities be forced to abolish any sort of pledge program with the exception of formal initiation. “Pledges”
would, under this system, be initiated into the fraternity as soon as national regulations would permit. We don’t know what
sort of support Dr. Gallent’s proposal was given by the faculty. We hope none at all.

We don’t pretend to claim that all pledge activities are constructive; we can’t defend laundry and stud-running or some of
the little “games” that pledges are sometimes forced to play. But we do defend requiring pledges to visit each brother
within a certain period during the fall. We also argue that pledges should be required to attend fraternity study halls.
We feel that a freshman who makes a weekly trip with his pledge class to Barium Springs or to the
Gastonia Orthopedic Hospital has gained something very concrete from his pledge program.

We aren’t trying to whitewash the pledge programs. They still have some senseless aspects and some senseless people backing them
up. Granted, some of these programs need cleaning up. This, we are willing to do. But our point is, the
fraternities need pre-initiation activities in order to keep themselves from degenerating into eating clubs. Without pledge training, diversification in individual
fraternity structure is likely to break down; each fraternity will become a loose group of 40 to 50 boys no
more closely tied together than any other campus organization.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
B. Millner

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charlie Rowe

Associate Editors
Tom Colvin
Ervin Duggan

Feature Editor
Leonard Richardson

Copy Editor
Jack Hand

Managing Editors
Bob Moore
David Jordan
Don Saunders
Russ Showalter
Bill Godwin
Jerry Abernathy

Advertising Manager
Olin Nisbet

Circulation Manager
Butler Bennett

Sports Editor
Gene Wells

Assistant Bus. Manager
Gene Adcock

Photographers
Gene Wells

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Early College Acceptance Now Possible At Davidson

By DAVID JORDAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

(Editor's Note: This is the first in a series of articles which will discuss Davidson's admissions standards and policies.)

An outstanding high school senior, who has made Davidson his definite college choice, can now avoid months of needless waiting
and receive a decision on his application in November under the college’s new Early Decision Plan. The new policy is
being tried on an experimental basis this year. It has been in effect for about three years in some eastern
schools.

23 ACCEPTED

“Letters will be going out in the near future to 23 boys who have been approved by the committee.” H.
Edmunds White, Associate Director of Admissions, told THE DAVIDSONIAN this week. These names will be available for publication the first
week of December.

Under provisions of the program at Davidson, a prospective student may apply for an early decision if he states that
Davidson is his first college choice, that he has not applied to any other college, and that he will enroll
at Davidson if accepted. The program is directed to the exceptional rather than average student. Acceptance is based on the
same factors used under the regular plan, except that records are based on the first three years of high school
only. An applicant must have taken the college boards during his junior year.

NUMBER REDUCED

“Since we didn’t publicize the program extensively until late August, the number of possible applications was reduced. Many interested had
not had college boards. Another factor was the short period of time for completing applications,” White said. Applications must be
received by October 15. Students are notified in November and must pay a $100 fee by December 1. Some 42
applications were submitted under the program this year. “Possibly one or two more of these will be accepted,” White explained.
“Others will be carried over for later consideration under the regular plan, except for a few who will be turned
down definitely now.

MANY ADVANTAGES

“The advantages of such a program are evident. The student can get this business of his senior year completed early.
The college can have a number of strong applicants with Davidson at first choice. This eliminates much of the guesswork
about how many of those accepted in the spring will enroll. Without such a plan, we could not guarantee exceptional
students in the fall that they would be accepted. To be safe, they would have to apply elsewhere also, and
most of these boys are ones we wouldn’t want seriously investigating other schools.”

However, the college isn’t anxious to get too many early applicants. There is no restriction yet on the number who
could be accepted, but present feeling is not to exceed 10 per cent of the final class enrollment.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Student Criticizes Scheduling For Holidays As Irresponsible

Williams

Dear Editor:

I consider the scheduling of ChristmasHolidays: A very irresponsible policy of the Davidson College administration. I know of no other
college which requires its students to be back in classes on Jan. 2, 1961, and I know several reasons why
Davidson students should not be required to do so. First, Jan. 2 is a national legal holiday because New Year’s
Day falls on a Sunday. This is not just a holiday observed by banks and government offices. This holiday is
observed by all of the nation's businesses and industries and most of the public schools. Even court decisions have upheld
such a day as a legal holiday. Second and most important, the college policy is irresponsible because of transportation conditions.
It is bad enough to drive on America’s highways on a weekend or holiday. By combining the two, the college
is simply asking for the death or injury of some student. Not only are driving conditions bad, but it would
seem that the college has not thought of those students who will have to drive several days under these conditions
because they live 500 miles or more away from school. One may argue that public transportation should be used in
this case. Yet, anyone with experience knows that such facilities are often very unreliable at this season and will be
especially so this year because of the odd holiday situation. I am free to discuss this problem with any member
of the administration. This is not a plea for an extra day off. I understand the college has approached the
limit which accrediting allows. Nevertheless, I hope the administration will not adopt the “once a policy always a policy” attitude
and will discuss this issue.
John L. Williams, Caldwell

Dear Editor: A week ago I overheard people talking in the dormitory. One Big-Brotherly voice went something like this: “We
put this burden on you to see if you can stand up under it. We take up your time with
personal services to teach you discipline—to teach you to get your studies in half the time...” I hope the freshman
listening to this realized that what he was really hearing was “Look, Bud, I'm your fraternal superior, and no matter
how much time your professors require, by damn I’m going to get my share.” Is this really our attitude toward
pledge programs? Is the object of stud-running and shoe-shining and car-washing actually “to create unity in the pledge class,” or
is it because we had to do it when we were freshmen? It seems that fraternities assume one of two
things: that either freshmen are basically immature and need all the “help” they can get, or that freshmen are mature,
and worthy of becoming Brothers at the end of the probationary educational period. If they are basically immature the majority
will either be bad pledges or bad students, or both, under such programs as this. It’s like teaching someone to
swim by throwing him overboard with a 75-pound weight on his back. On the other hand, if freshmen are mature
men they don’t need such “help” and will refuse to spend time they can’t afford obeying the whims of upperclassmen.
I don’t recommend junking all pledge requirements. But let's throw out these personal requirements that are nothing more than opportunities
for our paranoid brothers to make like gods for a few freshmen. We should be ashamed that the faculty condemned
these ego-centered idiocies before we condemned them ourselves.
Price Caldwell

Thus establish kinship “Ayak?” one of them asks, “Akia,” responds the other. Two members of the Ku Klux Klan, unknown
to each other, in the “invisible Empire.” To them, “Ayak” means, “Are you a Klansman?” and “Akia” means, “A Klansman
I am.” It was as if the shadows of history had receded and there, reincarnated in the bright sunlight of
the New South, was some half-forgotten obscenity. A grief ago, it would all have been so natural, so understandable, so
forgivable. In 1868, or even in the dismal decades that followed, there would have been reasons. There are no valid
reasons today. Yet the ritual is repeated in turnip patches and broomsage fields and on bayous and under moss-festooned oaks
throughout the South. And so are all of the other rituals that make so many southerners the prisoners of a
terrible inheritance. For southerners, however they may deny it, are still tightly, perhaps even inextricably, bound to a deliberate, self-conscious
mystique. John Brown’s soul may or may not go marching on, depending on which side of the Mason-Dixon line you
learned your songs, but the passions it unleashed still take their toll. Why do these bones and dust, relics and
fragments of an American Juggernaut, still stir the air to life? The answers lie in a history of human convulsions
and awful travail, long remembered and long resented. It is what James Branch Cabell was talking about in “The Rivet
In Grandfather’s Neck”: Our actual tragedy isn’t that our fathers were badly treated, but that we ourselves are constitutionally unable
to do anything except talk about how badly our fathers were treated. Then, too, as Marshall Fishwick wrote much later,
to be a Confederate today isn't nearly as dangerous as it was in the 1860's. No risk, no marching, no
bleeding. The pose is there for the taking. The central tragedy of the modern South is that even its best
efforts are so terribly tentative. Its leaders often speak grandly of economic revolution and social progress, on the one hand,
while pledging allegiance to dusty concepts of 19th century conservatism on the other. If there is any such thing as
southern liberalism in the nation today, more often than not it masquerades demurely under the label of moderation. Moderation has
its virtues—if the choice is between two violent forms of self-destruction. But, logically, there can be no moderation on the
broad principles involved in the safeguarding of human rights, in the advancement of elementary democracy, in the promotion of economic
progress, in the protection and improvement of public education and in the development of the health, mental aptitudes and physical
vigor of the region’s human resources. Only the vibrant qualities of a South that is extremely concerned, extremely determined and
extremely enlightened can make gains which are permanent and enduring. Moderation in these matters has no legitimacy whatsoever.

The exciting fact is that this could be the Southern Century. All around us are the resources of social and
economic greatness—resources which, so far, have been barely touched in four centuries. There is a compression of human energy within
one orbit, a potentiality and vitality of people. True enough, the South is brash, sensitive, unsure and provincial. It is
an unpredictable and intractable region. But these very qualities give it an explosive promise unmatched anywhere in America. Together with
its rich abundance of untapped natural resources, its forests, its minerals, its water and its magnificent climate, it offers the
promise of unimaginable wealth and progress. It is perfectly true that human problems are posed here with singular directness and
nakedness. For better or worse, it is the unique place where the great social dilemmas of our age inevitably take
hold of the individual. Furthermore, the South in 1959 is still a pandemonium of harsh voices. But the voices have
turned sour. More than sound and fury, the modern South needs bold and enlightened leadership. More than rant, it needs
reason. It needs men to voice its true aspirations and direct its true destiny, men who will not permit America’s
profession of faith in equal opportunity and freedom for the human spirit to be watered down, whether in the name
of expediency or the plea of exterior menace. Nor can such leaders be satisfied with the knowledge that progress has
been made. Of course, progress has been made. But the distance the South has come must stand always as a
reminder of the distance yet to be traveled. Despite the cynics and the hot-eyed prophets of disaster, we maintain that
southerners will respond to such leadership if it is offered. But there must be a sense of revival, a renaissance
of something old in new and enlightened terms. The best of the southern tradition must be preserved and the worst
discarded. Furthermore, the battle is here. It must be fought here with our own people. The response must come as
much from the rednecks and wool hat boys as from the professors and the politicians and the manufacturers of the
dominant middle class. With wise and courageous leadership, the region can triumph over the cobwebs of pride and prejudice. For
the nay-sayers of the North are wrong. The story of the modern South is not that it exists as an
enduring embodiment of human wrong but as an enduring embodiment of human possibilities. The possibilities, fully realized, can make this
the Southern Century.
