PAGE FOUR - KURTIS HESS directs the brand-new Pep Band in a practice session in Chambers. Hess and music professor
Frank West organized the group, which will play for all football games except Lehigh. (Davidsonian photo by Wells.)

New Wildcat Pep Band Excites Students, Fans

“I think the Wildcat Band is the greatest thing that’s come to Davidson since I’ve been here,” exclaimed a junior
this week when he heard “When the Saints Go Marching In” being played by Davidson's new “pep band” at the
practice session in Chambers Building.

The new band, under the direction of sophomore Kurtis Hess, made its first appearance at the Davidson-Catawba football game in
Charlotte Saturday. Spectators seemed surprised and delighted to hear a repertoire which included more than the customary marches.

NEW SPIRIT

“We'll be playing jazz, Dixieland, swing, and some popular tunes,” Hess explained. “We're trying to build up morale and spirit,
and we think Davidson students are tired of hearing the same thing over and over. The members of the band
like this kind of music instead of usual marches.”

“The Wildcat Band will play at all home games, and at all but one out of town game. We won't
be going to the Lehigh game because it isn't practical to go all the way to Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. The school
is providing a thousand dollars for our travel expenses and music. We are planning to give a fifteen-minute concert of
jazz and Dixieland before the game, then play at half-time and time-outs,” Hess continued.

In explaining how the Wildcat Band got started, Hess stated, “Last spring Mr. Frank West asked me to consider organizing
and directing a new non-marching band similar to the ‘pep bands’ at other colleges and universities. I started looking for
boys who would be interested last spring, checked on music during the summer, and came back early this fall to
get everything lined up.”

“We feel that the Wildcat Band is a student organization in every way. Although Mr. West is serving as our
advisor, we arrange our own Wednesday and Friday rehearsals, and we're relatively self-sufficient,” Hess added.

“We appreciate the support of the Music Department, the Athletic Department, and the Administration. The Athletic Department has told us
that members of the Wildcat Band who remain in good standing for two years will receive a school letter. Freshmen
and sophomores in our band will be excused from Physical Education classes until Thanksgiving.”

FORMER ROTC BAND

“Many of the twenty-six members of the Wildcat Band are members or former members of the ROTC band. All the
members of our group have had experience in high school,” Hess added, “and all of them were chosen because they
are excellent players.”

Hess stated that although there are men on the waiting list, “we are still looking for another cornet player.”

Hess, a sophomore this year, served as drum major and president of the concert band at Lane High School in
his hometown, Charlottesville, Virginia. Last year he played the trombone in the ROTC band and the Concert Band.

Betas Cop Award For Second Year

Beta Theta Pi, for the second straight year, has won the Belk Scholarship Cup with a respectable 1.915 average. The
ATOs finished second, averaging 1.866. For the ‘59-60 session the All Fraternity Average (1.673) was slightly lower than the All
Student Average (1.681), which gave the Independents a certain amount of prestige. The 1.871 average of the Senior Class gave
them a wide margin over the second-place Juniors who averaged 1.753. The Sophomores with their 1.581 edged out the Freshmen
with a 1.575. The fraternity averages are as follows:

Beta Theta Pi 1.915
Alpha Tau Omega 1.866
Sigma Phi Epsilon 1.757
Phi Delta Theta 1.753
Kappa Sigma 1.581
Pi Kappa Phi 1.575
Phi Gamma Delta 1.544
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 1.542
Sigma Nu 1.589
Sigma Chi 1.572
Kappa Alpha 1.544

Freshmen Choose Council Members

This week the Class of ‘64 elected their representatives to this year’s Freshman Council. Twenty-two men, two from each freshman
hall, make up the council. Elected were: Tarby Bryant, Jim Bulla, Carlton Cole, Walt Eckman, Bill Ferris, Phil Hazel, Wiley
Horne, Seaborn Jones, Jim Lewis, David Lopp, Jack McNeil, John Maddox, John Miller, Jimmy Platt, Charles Rowe, Fred Schoen, Charles
Shapard, Paul Simpson, John Spratt, Tommy Stafford, Jerry Trammell, and Staff Warren.

Freshman Adviser Pete Wyrick expects to call a meeting of the council early next week. Freshman class spirit will be
a big topic for discussion. The Freshman Council has the responsibility for planning Freshman Parents Day, and for organizing the
Freshman-Sophomore field day. Last year's council started the precedent of designing a class flag. Officers for the class will not
be elected until after the first grading period. Meetings will be conducted by Wyrick, who also represents the class on
the Student Council. As in the past, Freshman Council members are expected to be influential on hall discipline and action.
Their meetings will provoke discussion on such familiar topics as the Honor system, required services, and the Court of Control.

Book Committee Picks (Continued From Page One)

First Organ Recital Features Williams

John Williams, associate professor of organ at Flora Macdonald College, will inaugurate the 1960-61 Organ Recital Series at 4:00 p.m.
Sunday, September 25 in the college church.

For this initial recital Professor Williams will be heard in works by Johann Sebastian Bach, Schumann, Vierne and Paul Hindemith.
He will feature a prelude on “Adeste Fideles” by Charles Ives, one of America’s first composers.

“The highlight of the series will be an all-day convocation on sacred music. Clarence Watters, noted concert organist, will speak
on “Church Music in the Liberal Arts College.” He will be assisted by the Male Chorus and Brass Ensemble. The
convocation, set for Saturday, November 12, will be concluded with an organ recital at 3:30 p.m. by Mr. Watters. Other
Sunday recitals scheduled at Davidson will be on October 16, February 5, April 23 and May 7.

Robinson affirmed his enthusiasm and confidence in the program by saying: “Based on last year's initial success with Vance Packard,
this promises to be the most worth-while intellectual series ever begun at Davidson.”

Davidson senior Bert Keller has recently been elected Moderator of the Westminster Fellowship of the Presbyterian Church in the United
States. His nomination and election took place at a church-wide convention of the Westminster Fellowship held August 8, at Banner
Elk, North Carolina. Keller will be responsible for the direction and co-ordination of the activities of the Westminster Fellowship, and
as another duty of his office will serve on the central committee of the National Student Christian Federation.

A long record of service to the Westminster Fellowship precedes Keller’s election to this, the highest office of that organization.
Last April he was chosen to become Moderator of the Westminster Fellowship of the Synod of North Carolina, an office
which he will still hold in spite of his election to a higher one. He has also been very active
as a member of the Davidson College Westminster Fellowship, serving last year as its secretary and this year as the
chairman of the Committee on Spiritual Life.

MOST READ NON-CURRICULAR BOOKS DURING 1959-60 By Students & Faculty Members

Metalious RETURN TO PEYTON PLACE 39
Lawrence LADY CHATTERLEY’S LOVER 36
Lederer THE UGLY AMERICAN 31
Douglas MY BROTHER WAS AN ONLY CHILD 31
Pasternak DOCTOR ZHIVAGO 30
Hersey WAR LOVERS 28
Pettigrew THREE IS A FAMILY 27
Drury ADVISE AND CONSENT 22
Jarvis FOLK MEDICINE 21
Williams SOME OF MY BEST FRIENDS ARE PROFS 20
Michener HAWAII 19
O’Hara FROM THE TERRACE 19
Huxley BRAVE NEW WORLD REVISITED 19

Red and Black Masquers, the existing drama group on campus for several years. The Vagabonds hope to re-vitalize drama here
by giving all interested students, especially freshmen, an early contact with drama. It is hoped that by providing students with
an early contact with drama, they will revive interest in the Red and Black Masquers. The Vagabonds will provide any
organization which wishes to participate in this program with staff help, lights, and sets. We have available a wide variety
of plays to choose from, with sufficient copies for production.

Rehearsals have started on the dramatic reading, “Mad Women of Chaillot” by Giraudoux. Chaillot will be available at the eight-fifteen.

AFTER VESPERS OPEN HOUSES

Professors will not hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night. Again this week delays have held up
a schedule for the year. The open house tradition will begin again in October. A list will be published in
THE DAVIDSONIAN each week.

Faculty Committee Forms Debate, Drama Companies

A new drama group, the Vagabonds, has been organized here by the Faculty Committee on Debate and Dramatics. Dr. W.
F. Goodykoontz, a member of this committee,is in charge of the Vagabonds. Dr. J. T. Drake, Chairman of the committee,
is in charge of a group of debaters. About 30 students interested in drama and about 15 students interested in
debate assembled at a recent organizational meeting. The purpose of the Vagabonds is not to supplant the campus, but to
strengthen them by providing them staff members and actors, and by stimulating an interest in drama on campus.

NEW INTEREST
Interest in drama has been steadily inclining for the last few years. This year, these plays and the tentative dates
of their presentation are “Saint Joan,” by Shaw, Oct. 13; “J.B.,” by MacLeish, Oct. 27; and a Shakespearean play, probably
“Henry IV,” Act Two at some later date.

The following professors' wives: Mrs. Cumming, Mrs. Marrotte, and Mrs. Gross; and the students: Charles Cornwell, David Dillard, Bill Pruitt,
and Malcolm Murchinson. Tickets to The Madwomen of Chaillot, to be presented by the Vagabonds Thursday night, Sept. 29, will
be available at the Union office from Monday on. There is no admission charge but because seating is limited to
one hundred and twenty-five, it will be necessary to have a ticket. The doors will open at eight o'clock and
the play will begin at eight-thirty.

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1960
Oriental Salutations Depict Respect, Love
By KOOKIE KAPOOR
Richardson Scholar

Every country has its own traditional manner of greeting; in the western world, it is the handshake. The countries of
the east have a more diversified nature, with a greater accent on symbolical value. The Japanese bow in greeting; in
India, the movements and gestures are both complex and simple, but no matter what category they fall into, each conveys
a deep and genuine sense of respect and affection. A proper understanding will furnish a true insight into the rich,
significant meaning of the typical Indian form of greeting.

The “namaste” is the simpler form of greeting; it parallels the western handshake, usually being a rather cursory or formal
gesture. The namaste involves the joining of both palms of the hands, the fingertips pointing upwards towards the tip of
the nose. The hands should be kept in a rather hard-pressed position, with no movement to either side or up
and down; they should be still and motionless, the palms coming up to the chest, the thumbs directly in front
of the throat, and the joined fingers forming a canopy-like barrier.

At first glance, the namaste appears to be just another form of greeting. However, there is a deep symbolism and
significance of meaning in these gestures. The greeting evolved in the ancient days of feudal lords, days of discord and
distrust, when survival was a problem and when open killing was an accepted and recognized fact. The folded hands convey
a sense of physical helplessness being placed high on the chest in full view of the other person. The fingernails
pointing upwards towards the nose prevent a sudden lightning jab. The elbows are turned inward, touching the ribs; the same
principle of physical impotency applies to this. The placement of the hands and arms also forms an effective safeguard over
the vulnerable parts of the body.

Besides the physical aspects, the namaste has a hygienic significance. The handshake brings the palms of two people together. If
one has a skin infection, he or she is liable to convey it to the other. The namaste overcomes this
seemingly insignificant, and, to some, rather farfetched danger. No part of the body is brought into contact with that of
another person. Indeed, in the namaste, distance is not a barrier as long as one can see and hear the
other. This is not a vainglorious attempt to install meaning and significance into a seemingly insignificant motion; an understanding of
the namaste will give you considerable pleasure if you should have the opportunity of seeing it performed.

ROTC Corps Revamps, Cadets Get New Duties
The Davidson College ROTC Cadet Corps has undergone a major change within its organization this year. The Corps will be
composed of four companies, an Honor Guard, and a band company. Each company will have a Cadet Captain in charge.
The company commanders for this semester are Ed Kizer, Ted Quantz, Tom Parker, and Bob Denham. The Honor Guard will
return to its former size of only one platoon, approximately thirty men, with Cadet 1st Lt. William F. Deane as
its commander. Cadet Captain Ervin Duggan has been assigned the position of commander of the Band Company. The musical unit
will participate only in military functions and will not double as a pep band as it has previously done.

Cadet Colonel Robert C. Young is the Corps Commander for the first semester, and it is his responsibility to see
that each of his subordinates functions correctly within his assigned position. His right-hand man is the Corps Executive Officer, a
job which ranges from errand boy to commander of the five hundred troops. Jerry Cole, whose rank is Lt. Colonel,
has been assigned this position.

The S-1 is Cadet Major Charles Harrill and it is his duty to organize the personnel and administrative ends of
the Corps. Specifically, he is responsible for the assignment of the men to their respective companies, the awarding of merits
and demerits, the absentee list, and other minor details.

The S-2 and S-3 positions have been combined with Cadet Major William C. Rustin at its head. His duties as
S-2 include all publicity of the Corps and its activities. Operations, the S-3 responsibility, consist of preparing and publishing the
drill schedules, drill critiques, progress reports, and all other items dealing with the training of the Corps. The S-4, Cadet
Major Bob Moore, has the supply function for all the cadets. He personally must assign each man his weapon, supervise
the care and cleaning of these pieces, and issue any other equipment needed by the individual cadets. At the end
of the semester, he will be required to account for all articles issued.

Since there will only be four cadet companies this year, their size will be greatly increased over that of the
past years. A minimum of one hundred men will comprise each company.

PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

Compiled by Chalmers G. Davidson, Director of the College Library

It was sad... when that great ship went down and the last thing to leave the sinking ship was a
bottle of Coca-Cola. That’s because all hands stuck to Coke to the end. Now there’s popularity! That's the kind of
loyalty the sparkling lift, the good taste of Coke engenders. Man the lifeboats, have a Coke!

BE REALLY REFRESHED
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
