CATS MEET V.P.I. TONIGHT (See Page Three)

VOL. XLVI

Scott: We’re Unable To On Equ week. A committee composed of Mr. Currie, Dr. D. B. Plott, Mr. G. C.
Meetze, and Mr. L. Lashmitt, the college architect, recently made a tour of fine arts facilities at several schools in
the Boston area. Choosing the hall in the Jewett Fine Arts Center at Wellesley as a starting point, the committee
conferred with a representative of the acoustical firm responsible for that building.

Journalists Eligible For Grant or Summer Plan

Students interested in journalism and 1960 summer work on a newspaper are eligible to apply for the new internship-scholarship program
of the Newspaper Fund, Inc. A $500 scholarship in addition to regular summer pay goes to selected applicants.

The newly established program is aimed especially at college students who wish to broaden their experience in journalism. A number
of medium-sized newspapers throughout the country are participating, with the Wall Street Journal furnishing the scholarship funds.

The college has received application blanks and information sheets describing the program in detail. Interested students may get copies of
these from Dick Smith, DAVIDSONIAN editor.

College Readies Cunningham Arts Center

Plans for the John R. Cunningham Fine Arts Center are now about two weeks from finalization, announced Mr. R. A.
Currie, College Business Manager, early this week. A committee composed of Mr. Currie, Dr. D. B. Plott, Mr. G. C.
Meetze, and Mr. L. Lashmitt, the college architect, recently made a tour of fine arts facilities at several schools in
the Boston area. Choosing the hall in the Jewett Fine Arts Center at Wellesley as a starting point, the committee
conferred with a representative of the acoustical firm responsible for that building.

“We have a better understanding of the acoustics problems in a building such as this after the trip,” said Currie.
The auditorium, with its accompanying difficulties, is the greatest obstacle in plans for the new Fine Arts Center.

Using an adaptation of the “stage-wagon” principle, the architect has drawn up a plan including a separate stage for dramatics
which could be drawn onto a recital-hall platform. When not in use, this dramatic stage would be wheeled into a
separate room for rehearsal purposes. The recital-hall stage would be more open, providing better facilities for concerts and musical performances.

Present preliminary plans call for the two-story auditorium to occupy the center of the proposed building. Designed to harmonize with
the other smaller buildings in the quadrangle, the wings of the building will be one story in height. When the
auditorium plans are fitted into the plans for the complete building, approval of all departments is expected.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

The main lecture hall in the Dana Laboratories held its first classes this week. The 105-seat hall is equipped with
an electrically powered movie screen, lighted and sliding blackboards, flexible lighting controls, and lecture spotlights to be used for closed-circuit
television broadcasts from this room. Provision has been made in the wiring of the building to include a closed-circuit TV
system.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1960

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

SCHOLARSHIP REPORT See Page Two

NUMBER FIFTEEN

Compete By BOB MOORE Davidsonian Managing Editor

Suggestions will be made at the end of the series.

When asked why Davidson should stay in the Southern Conference since it is overmatched, Dr. Scott replied, “That is a
very good question. The original idea when the conference was formed was to get teams from the same geographical area
having similar enrollment and academic requirements to play each other. Now there is a wide range of differences between Davidson,
close to having the smallest enrollment in the conference, and schools like West Virginia and VPI.”

“As long as we remain members of the Southern Conference, we must play four or five other teams in the
conference to be eligible for the championship,” Dr. Scott continued.

Said Currie, “With luck, we may be able to let the contract by June first.” If construction begins then, fourteen
months would be allowed to finish the entire structure by September 1961.

SCHOLARSHIP WITHDRAWAL

Question: “What provisions have been made for withdrawing a scholarship if a player doesn’t live up to his potential?”

Dr. Scott replied that the NCAA has stated that if a player does not live up to the expectations of
a coach, then in

The Student Body will vote on a liberalization of the expulsion rule in chapel next Friday, Student Council President Dee
Green announced in Chapel today. The rule permanently barring a student expelled for an honor offense from re-entrance to Davidson
is as old as

The Faculty voted shortly after Christmas to approve the liberalization if the student body voted favorably. Both the Honor Court
and the Student Council had discussed the issue this fall and had passed resolutions favoring a new ruling.

The vote by the Student Body will be only for or against making the permanent expulsion rule more liberal. A
positive vote will enable the Student Council to proceed with the details of a new policy. Whether a new policy
will be retroactive, what number of offenses it will apply to, and the time lapse involved will be determined along
with

Lord Will Appear As Duke Organist

Robert Sutherland Lord, organist and assistant professor of music, will be the guest organist on the

Dance Weekend Set Joni’s Date Definite

IFC President Ward McKeithen this week announced that Joni James will definitely appear at Davidson. The other star attraction will
be Louis Armstrong and the All-Stars, as originally scheduled.

Soon after Joni James’ appearance here was first announced, an attempt was made by her agent to cancel the engagement,
because of recording sessions in London. She will fly from England to sing at Davidson and then return to London
the following week to complete her recording.

Joni, who has placed consistently as “America’s Favorite Female Vocalist” since 1952, will make two appearances in this her first
visit to Davidson, both on Friday, February 12. The first will be from 7:30 until 9:00 that night. The other
will be a forty-five minute concert during the Formal Dance which lasts from 9:00 until 1:00.

The second attraction will be Louis Armstrong and the All-Stars. He, too, will make two appearances while at Davidson. On
Saturday afternoon, February 13, he will give his first concert from 2:30 until 4:00. At the Informal Dance that night
which lasts from 8:00 until 12:00, he will appear for an hour.

The music for the two dances, as well as for Joni James’ concert, will be provided by the Duke Ambassadors,
a sixteen-piece band from Durham, N. C.

IFC President Ward McKeithen stated, “The IFC is extremely pleased with the prospects of a successful dance weekend, featuring two
star attractions, Joni James and Louis Armstrong backed up by a fine dance band.”

Belk Dormitory will be used to house a large number of the girls visiting Davidson for the weekend. Also, many
girls will stay in town. Mrs. Moore announced that Belk residents may sign up for rooms on Monday, February 8,
during Chapel Period, from 1:30 to 2:30, and from 7:00 to 8:00. All others may sign up on Tuesday, February
9, from 4:30 to 5:30 and 7:00 to 8:00 and Wednesday, February 10, during Chapel Period. This time each student
will be allowed to sign up for only one place in contrast to previous weekends. Mrs. Moore requested that any
cancellations be reported to her.Current Duke University Chapel series at 4 p.m., Sunday, February 7. Professor Lord, newly appointed organist
and choirmaster for Charlotte’s Selwyn Avenue Presbyterian Church, presented a recital in the M.I.T. Chapel at Harvard University during the
Christmas holidays. At Duke University, Mr. Lord has chosen a program of early 15th and 16th Century keyboard literature, many
of which he himself transcribed for organ. Works of Johann Sebastian Bach, Clérambault, and Lübeck will also be played. “Three
Modal Pieces” written in 1956 by Jean Langlais, contemporary French organist, will conclude the recital. Lord, who studied in Paris
with the famous blind composer, had the honor of introducing these modal selections last year in this country. Lord opened
the Davidson College organ series recently in Davidson and was followed by Paul Jenkins of Stetson University tonight in the
church.

Other details at a later time. In past years, the Student Council has discussed a new ruling. Council President Green
pointed out that for several years it has been customary for the council to recommend that a convicted person be
considered for readmission if the present permanent expulsion ruling were amended. “I personally feel that a liberalization of the rule
is in accord with the Christian attitude that is Davidson's heritage,” Green continued. “It is only fair to give a
man a chance to prove he has changed his ways.”

In addition, there will be the indirect benefit of allowing a player’s scholarship not to be terminated. Dr. Scott continued,
“We do not take away a player's scholarship if we misjudge his ability to play. All stipulations regarding the withdrawal
of a player's scholarship must be put in writing and be a mutual agreement between the individual player and his
respective coach.”

NCAA RULING
“We have made some mistakes in the past few years and the percentage of mistakes has gone up since the
NCAA passed a rule which no longer allows a college to bring a boy to the campus and have him
try out. If we haven't had the opportunity to see a boy play, it is very difficult to judge his
ability since try-outs have been eliminated. Some players whom we have given scholarships were taken on recommendations, as we never
had the opportunity to see them play.”

When asked what was the best argument for maintaining subsidized athletics, Dr. Scott stated, “Ideally it would be good if
we had no subsidization, but we do not live in an ideal situation. We are in a conference which has
subsidization; therefore, to compete we must subsidize. If everyone didn’t subsidize then we could maintain a high standard of athletic
competition without scholarships.”

W&L SUCCESS?
Question: “What success do you feel Washington and Lee University has had by non-subsidizing athletics?”
“I don’t think that they are really happy about it. Though they are saving money on scholarships, it is costing
them a lot more money for travel and game expense. Since they have become amateurs, it has been difficult for
them to find a schedule in their locale. I believe (Continued On Page Four)

Cave Counterpoint “Opens Up” With Trombonist Bill Hanna
Bill Hanna, trombonist with Woody Herman's orchestra, appeared at the opening of Cave Counterpoint Tuesday night with Woody Herman's orchestra,
as guest star. After the first session, Tommy Colvin took his position behind the drums to begin the three-hour session.
Larry Baggett at the piano and John Keiter on bass improvised with Colvin and Hanna on their version of “Over
the Rainbow.” The crowded room was soon filled with smoke as the combo swung into a Dixieland rendition of “Margie.”
On the walls hung pictures by Utrillo, Klee, Braque, Feininger, and original oil paintings by Davidson students. In one corner
a student tape-recorded “Stormy Weather,” “Back Home In Indiana,” “Bernie’s Tune,” and “Lullaby of Birdland” as the night went on.
A gold foil mobile made a pattern on the ceiling and reflected the light from flickering candles. Colvin’s drums glinted
in the green glow from a spotlight as “Cave Counterpoint” filled to capacity with listeners. Coffee and peanuts, cider and
pretzels, and soft drinks and pastries were sold from a mosaic bar on one side of the room. Students applauded
enthusiastically after each number, and at about eleven o'clock Hanna thanked them for staying to hear “some real good jazz.”
Tommy Colvin commented that at present the group plans to open “Cave Counterpoint” one night each week for the rest
of the semester. “We hope to have a brass ensemble one night,” he added. Committees are being set up in
the fields of Art, Folk Music, Classical Vocal and Classical Instrumental Music, Jazz, Poetry, Drama, and Classical Piano. “We've had
a lot of student interest since our first “Cave Counterpoint” session last spring,” Colvin remarked, “and we are looking forward
to some varied programs this semester.”

Book-of-Semester Sees April Climax
A tentative date for the culmination of the spring Book-of-the-Semester Program has been set by Russell Showalter, this semester’s chairman.
The probable time will be the last week in April. During this time the book's author will be on the
Davidson campus to discuss and expound his work. At present, a book has not been secured due to complications with
publishers, as well as other reasons. Such renowned authors as Erich Fromm, J. D. Salinger, Jacques Barzun, and Jack Kerouac
have indicated that they would not find it possible to participate in the program this particular school year. Under present
consideration is Philip Wylie's GENERATION OF VIPERS. Showalter said in an interview, “We should get an answer from Mr. Wylie
within the next few days. If it should be negative, there are a number of possibilities, just as controversial and
thought-provoking, that we are certain we can secure at the last minute.” Definite working committees are to be set up
during the next week.
