PAGE FOUR

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Abernethy
Goldiere
D. G. Martin
Bernard
Hopkins
Meetze
Clark
Hummel
Pietenpol
Davidson
Maloney
Woods
Fredericksen
McGavock
Workman

As Vice President and presiding officer of the Senate, Daniel Logan Puckett cast the tie-breaking vote that killed the 1960
Clark Amendment to provide one billion dollars per year in Federal aid for school construction and teachers’ salaries. Voted for
school construction in defense areas (1951) but favored reducing funds. Opposed scholarships for medical students and financial aid for medical
schools.

Several members of the newly-formed debate group plan for the Novice Debate which is being held at Wake Forest. From
left to right are Roger Pancoast, Lenox Baker, Tom Poston, L. C. Jones, and Doug Wilkerson. (Davidsonian Photo by Abernathy).

Debating Group Attends Wake Forest Tourney — "Enjoyable"

Parents’ Day to be held on Saturday, November 5. Under the leadership of Union Director C. Shaw Smith and Freshman
Advisor Pete Wyrick, the twenty-two hall representatives have been working on the plans for Parents’ Day for several weeks.

Freshman Council Plans

A faculty reception will follow. Then, with no football game scheduled, the rest of the day will be free for
optional guided tours of the campus, receptions at the fraternity houses, and family visits. Dean of Students John C. Bailey,
Jr. will address the parents.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1960

KENNEDY

School Aid

Voted for Clark Amendment. Had seven opportunities to vote on education matters. Favored Federal aid to schools on six; was
absent on one.

Social Security

Opposed Gearhart Resolution. Opposed Mason motion. Opposed Knowland Amendment. Supported Long Amendment.

A Look At The Record

The recently formed Davidson College Debating Group, under the direction of Professor Joseph T. Drake, is participating today and Saturday
in a Novice Debate Tournament at Wake Forest College. The two-day tournament is designed to provide a chance for beginning
debaters to gain experience in college debating.

Each participating college sends a four-man team composed of negative and affirmative teams of two men to the debating tournament.
The tournament is set up in six negative and six affirmative rounds. A trophy will be awarded to the best
team and one to the best school. Tom Poston, L. C. Jones, John Rankin, and Doug Wilkerson compose Davidson’s Debate
Team. Also participating in the program as alternates are Roger Pancoast, Harold Fisher, Bob Keiter, Bob Llewellyn, and Lenox Baker.

The present Debating Group arose from a speech program organized by Professor Raymond Tyson which included both debating and dramatics.
Over the years it became apparent that the two activities could not be combined effectively in one program. At the
end of last semester, the administration attempted to revive interest in the program, and for this purpose, it appointed a
committee composed of Professors J. T. Drake, R. W. Tyson, and W. F. Goodykoontz. Professor Drake, Chairman of the Debating
and Dramatics Committee, assumed control of the debating group, while Professor Goodykoontz took over the dramatic activities.

At the beginning of this semester, the debating group sent five students to a Round Table Discussion at the University
of Virginia. Many schools in this area attended the meeting, the purpose of which was to discuss the general topic
of debating and to propose ways in which more interest in debating might be stimulated. The debaters' future plans include
trips to the Twelfth Annual Invitation Debate Tournament at Florida State University, the Barkley Tournament at Emory University, and the
29th Annual South Atlantic Forensic Tournament at Lenoir Rhyne College. Professor Drake commented that he would schedule other tournaments “if
the budget permits.”

Professor Drake said this week that he is planning to renew the debating group's membership in Tau Kappa Alpha, the
national forensic fraternity. To be admitted to this organization, a debater must participate in and win a large number of
debates, and he must also maintain an average in the upper one-third of his class. “Since debating offers useful training
for later life and particularly for law, the debating group is seeking to revive interest in this program,” Professor Drake
added. To publicize and stir up interest in the program, freshmen were given the opportunity to sign up for the
group during Freshman Orientation. To further draw attention to debating, the group plans to present an abbreviated mock debate in
student assembly, followed a few days later by a real debate in the Student Union.

In a departure from the formats of the past, this year’s event is expected to be more enjoyable for both
parents and students. After the parents arrive in the morning, the day’s program will include a luncheon for the parents
during which they will sit with their son’s faculty advisors. At an afternoon assembly, Dean of Students John C. Bailey,
Jr. will address the parents.

The Freshman Council has performed two other major tasks this year. One was a behind-the-scenes discussion of the Court of
Control during the hectic period of riots and threatened walkouts in September. The other major action was the planning and
execution of what was considered a very successful Freshman-Sophomore Field Day.

The work of the Freshman Council will not end after Parents’ Day. In its meetings, the Council has already raised
questions as to study conditions in the dorms; the effectiveness of the advisor system; the possibility of a standardized grading
system in Freshman subjects such as math, Bible, and English; and the need for more social activities for freshmen.

Dr. Johnston Makes Dual Purpose Visit

Frontis Johnston, Dean of the Faculty, left Davidson last Sunday for San Francisco and the Far West for a week’s
tour of double-duty involving the National Collegiate Athletic Association and the college’s curriculum committee. Johnston is a member of the
Executive Council of the NCAA and also heads the Faculty Committee on Curriculum. While in Carleton College, Northfield, Minnesota.San Francisco,
Johnston attended the twelve-man executive committee meeting of the NCAA, which is the main policy-making body of the Association. This
year’s inspection will differ from those in the past due to the shortened length of no troop inspection. The cadet
corps, the ROTC band, and the Martin Honor Guard will, however, march in the usual parade. The inspecting officer of
the 12th Army Corps will be briefed by Davidson's cadet officers the morning before the parade. There will also be
a regular inspection of Davidson's entire ROTC department. The inspecting officers will not visit classes this year, as they have
done in the past. Cadet Commander Bob Young commented on the revised program which is now in effect in the
department. The new program is much more concentrated than in the past,” he said.

The drill period will have larger companies and platoons, which have caused the MS III's and MS IV’s to revamp
their thinking since there is so much more work for everybody to do. Young said that things were progressing well.
He noted that the three-hour drill period for MS II's and MS IV's is working well. “An NCO school has
been set up to give MS II's practice in drilling other people. For their second hour of drill, they drill
each other under the supervision of Capt. Threkeld.”

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA at the famous OPEN KITCHEN Charlotte, N. C.

STUDY COLLEGES
Johnston also visited several Western colleges, the main purpose being to study curriculum in small liberal arts colleges in that
section of the country. Johnston visited two colleges in particular, Occidental and Pomona. Occidental College in Los Angeles is a
small liberal arts, co-educational college. President Martin stated that it is the best-known Presbyterian institution in the West.

CLAREMONT CENTER
Pomona College for men is also a liberal arts college and is a member of the Claremont Center, which consists
of five colleges near Los Angeles. The five colleges in the Center are autonomous but use many central facilities.

ABERNETHY TRIP
G. W. Abernethy, also a member of the curriculum committee and Professor of Philosophy, left last Saturday on a similar
trip to the Midwest. While in that area, Abernethy also studied college curriculum and other aspects of college programs that
might be beneficial and relevant to Davidson. Among the colleges that he visited were MacAlister College in St. Paul, Minnesota,
and others.

Traditionally, this inspection is carried out by the Commander of the 12th Army Corps. The new program is much more
concentrated than in the past,” he said.

When your Taste Tells you it's time for a change, YOU FEEL A NEW SMOOTHNESS DEEP IN YOUR THROAT! Remember:
Only Kool, the regular filter cigarette, gives you real Menthol Magic!

©1960, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation, THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS

STUDENT BODY PICKS NIXON, LODGE, GAVIN
(Continued From Page One)
In the mock gubernatorial election, the 35 write-ins included mainly those candidates who were defeated in the Democratic primaries: Dr.
I. Beverly Lake, Malcolm Seawell, and John Larkins. Among the ballots that were voided because of ridiculous write-ins were votes
for president or vice-president for Huckleberry Hound, Bernard Goldfine and Sherman Adams, General MacArthur, Eugene V. Debs, Alfred E. Newman,
and Emma Goldberg. Ed Johnston, coordinator of the poll and Chairman of the Union Roundtable Committee, received three of the
voided votes in the gubernatorial election. Votes for Charles Rose, “Khrushchev,” and Yogi Bear were also voided by the Roundtable
Committee.

Ed Johnston, coordinator of the mock election, said, “Due to the large number of ballots cast in the mock presidential
election, I think this is an accurate representation of the political sentiment on the Davidson Campus, as far as the
presidential election goes. The gubernatorial vote reflects the feelings of the Student Body,” he said, “but since it included the
votes of hundreds of out-of-state students, it has little real significance in indicating how the gubernatorial race will come out.”

When John Hulse was a senior at the University of South Dakota, he had his own set of “do’s” and
“don'ts.” Don’t become a mere cipher on somebody’s payroll. Don’t sit on the shelf waiting for your first taste of
responsibility. Do get a job where you have a chance to show your stuff. Do the job. John knew his
B.S. in Business Administration could lead him into almost any field. He chose the telephone business and joined Northwestern Bell.
One of his first assignments: streamlining operating procedures for the telephone offices of Iowa’s five largest cities. In this work,
John showed good judgment and sound organizing ability. Today he is Telephone Manager of Sioux City, Iowa.

“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive, and imaginative men we
can possibly find.” —Frederick R. Kappel, President, American Telephone & Telegraph Co.

Besides managing day-to-day operations, helping plan tomorrow's telephone growth is an important part of John’s job. A typical example is
the work he does with the Sioux City Industrial Development Association. In this role, he’s the answer man on projecting,
planning, and supplying the communications needs of new industry. He’s shown above with Bob Sweeney, manager of the Sioux City
Chamber of Commerce. “You must always be thinking of the future in this business,” John says. “We have to stay
far ahead. I think a man who has something to offer this outfit won’t have a minute’s worry about what
it can do for him.”

If you’re a capable guy—looking for an action job with rapid rewards for the man who can handle it—you'll want
to visit your Placement Office for literature and additional information.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
