PAGE FOUR | THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fraternities Make Plans For Spring Social Functions

Davidson fraternities have lately been in the midst of plans for their annual spring functions. Of the twelve social groups on campus, three have functions planned for this weekend, and six for the weekend of May 14.

Pi Kappa Alpha will stage its annual “Dream Girl Ball” this Saturday night at the American Legion Building in Belmont. This will be a dinner-dance, and the highlight of the evening will be the crowning of the new Pi Kappa Alpha “Dream Girl.” After the formal dance, an after-function party will be held at the Riverview Inn, with music furnished by the “Five Sharps.”

On Saturday afternoon, Beta Theta Pi plans to have supper on the lawn of the Red Fez Club. There will be dancing after supper.

Nam Young Park sends Bill Whittington flying in a spectacular Judo throw. Nam Young has been instructing several students in this Japanese “gentleman’s sport.”

Nam Young’s Judo Class Learns “Waltz”
By DAVID DILLARD
Davidsonian Feature Writer

At first glance, it looked as if the wrestling room at Johnston Gymnasium had been taken over by Fred Astaire who was evidently teaching a waltz-in-two to six couples of intensely interested proteges. The dancers, however, were male, barefooted, and attired in loose gym clothes with the familiar D.C. lettering, while Fred himself was actually a small, energetic, deceptively powerful Korean named Nam Young Park.

Furthermore, the waltz-in-two was the essential movement which precedes any contest under the rules of Japanese Judo in which the opponents face each other, reciprocally gripping, about chest high, looking one another intensely in the eye, calculating the perfect instant for the kill as they sway from side to side.

While his students practiced the “UKEMI” or hip throw, Nam Young commented, “Most Americans consider Judo a fighting technique, but in reality it’s an art and a gentleman's sport. Judo, which is rapidly becoming international, must be distinguished from Jujitsu which is a fighting technique. Jujitsu includes all types of fighting,” Park stated.

“These fellows showed interest in learning some of the fundamentals last fall, but we couldn't find a time to get together then. We found time after spring vacation and started meeting on Mondays and Fridays at 4:30 and it’s worked out pretty well. The fellows in the class . . . Jim Hunter, Bill Martin, Jennings Snyder, Bill Whittington, Joe Dulaney, Tom Brown, Chuck Mitchell, and Gordon LeGrand . . . are fast learners.”

Park went over to correct one of the boys who was trying to throw a guy twice his size. “The hip . . . not the shoulder. Lower your hip. No, No, No. You don't have to make it so hard. Don’t strain.” Then Park took over himself and effortlessly threw the larger boy up and over his hip, sending him to the mat with a resounding smack.

Park was illustrating the truth of a statement he made in the East Carolina newspaper last summer: “Judo,” he said, “is based on the method of using the strength of the antagonist to overcome him, using his strength to bring about his own downfall, so that the weak may actually overcome the strong. Brute strength counts for very little in Judo.”

“Just how do you accomplish this irrational task?” I asked.

“By three methods,” Park said. “By NAGEWAZA, hurling the opponent to the ground; by KATAMEWAZA, obtaining a grip on him so that he cannot move; and by ATEMIWAZA, standing and kicking him in a vital spot, thus putting him out of commission. I taught these methods to Korean police officers during the 1951 conflict.”

“You are not allowed to practice throws until you learn how to protect yourself when you fall,” said Park, “but a good student of Judo must not only know how to fall, but must know how to revive an opponent should he lose consciousness.”

“Judo was introduced to Japan by a Chinese in the seventeenth century . . . experts then spread knowledge of the art to the military classes . . . then a typical Japanese Judo emerged and it was introduced to Korea and the Philippines in the eighteenth century.”

Clothing Drive Begins On May 9

Starting the ninth and running through the twelfth of May, the YMCA will conduct its annual clothing drive. Any student wishing to contribute old clothing may do so by depositing the clothing in any one of the cardboard boxes which will be placed in the main hall of each dormitory. Students are urged to help fill up the boxes as the clothes will be sent to needy individuals in disaster areas all over the world. Last year the Church World Service, through which the drive is conducted, sent the clothes collected to areas in Japan recovering from typhoon damage.

Pi Kappa Phi plans to hold a “Rose Ball” at the Red Fox Club this Saturday night. The after-dinner speaker will be Professor Boyd Flynn of the University of North Carolina. The new sweetheart will be announced to take the place of Miss Margaret Bolce, the present sweetheart. Music will be furnished by the “Larkendales.”

The Phi Gamma Deltas are planning their “Fiji Island” party for this weekend. Skiing and swimming will be the entertainment for the afternoon, followed by a party at which the “Shadows” will be playing. To carry out the “islander” effect, everyone will wear sarongs, and leis for the girls will be shipped in from Hawaii.

Six fraternities are planning their functions for next weekend. The “Larkendales” will be on hand to provide music. Phi Delta Theta will hold a party at Harris Lake on Saturday afternoon, with the “Delacados” playing. This will be followed by a banquet at the fraternity house at which Miss Peggy Simmons will be presented as the fraternity sweetheart.

For the weekend, Sigma Alpha Epsilon plans...a hayride and a party. David Webster, social chairman, said that pledge paddles and the “best pledge” award will be presented at the party. The “Delacados” will again be called on to furnish music for Saturday night. Plans for the Sigma Chi function include an open house in (Continued From Page One) Alpha Tau Omega held their function for the Spring last Saturday night at the Red Fez Club. Dr. Thomas Clark spoke after dinner, and then a combo from Johnson C. Smith College furnished music for a dance. Miss Louise O'Kelly was crowned Alpha Tau Omega sweetheart by George Gabel, fraternity president. Sigma Phi Epsilon’s plans for spring functions are indefinite, pending final plans for a district-wide party. Society chairman Richard Nash indicated that the party will probably be held in the next week or two. Kappa Alpha and Sigma Nu have no formal plans for a function this semester.

IFC Sets Rush

Kappa Sigma plans a picnic and a party for next Saturday. The IFC included in its report that in addition to the existing Greek Week regulations, the council has decided to pass a regulation prohibiting calisthenics within one hour after meals. The Interfraternity Council, with the cooperation of the athletic department and the administration, has been successful in changing the date of Homecoming from September 30-October 1 to October 21-22 when Davidson plays Richmond. The date was changed to allow the council time to plan for the weekend and to give the fraternities time to make Homecoming displays and select their respective Homecoming Queen candidates. IFC president Jerry Cole has appointed Jim Anderson dance weekend chairman for the coming year.

Gov. Hodges (Continued From Page One)

Two other Davidson seniors will receive commissions in the US Marine Corps. The Saturday of Graduation Weekend is traditionally Alumni Day and will be given over to Alumni Association meetings and 25-Year and 50-Year Class Reunions. The day will end with Class Day exercises that afternoon in Chambers auditorium. The major departure from tradition during the weekend is the scheduling of the baccalaureate sermon on Sunday evening rather than Sunday morning. The baccalaureate sermon will be delivered by The Rev. Fred R. Stair of Atlanta, Ga. “Rev. Stair is a member of the executive committee of the board of trustees,” commented Dr. Martin, “and has had close contact with college and university age people.” Preceding the baccalaureate sermon, Dr. and Mrs. Martin will have open house for seniors and their parents in the afternoon, followed by a buffet supper for seniors, their families, and friends. Graduating exercises will begin at 10:30 Monday morning in Chambers auditorium. After Governor Hodges’ address, several honorary degrees will be given.

Art Students Show Works In Festival

Paintings, drawings, and sculpture by Davidson students will be on view in both the College Union ballroom and Chambers foyer from May 9 through May 30. Prints will be shown in the Union lobby during the same period. The exhibits are held in conjunction with the current Davidson College Fine Arts Festival. Students whose work will be displayed include Price Caldwell, Tom Colvin, Allan Graveley, Bob James, D. G. Martin, Fred Morris, Walter Pharr, Alex Porter, Bill Pruitt, Howard Redding, Tommy Spence, Ed Stewart, Don Stowell, Dabney Stuart, Jack Taylor, and Bill Terrell.

FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1960

Final Festival Concert Will Feature Wright

The College Orchestra will present the final program of the current Fine Arts Festival on Friday evening, May 6, at 8:15, in Chambers Auditorium. Perrin Wright, senior music major from Radford, Virginia, will be the featured soloist in Mendelssohn’s Concerto No. 1 in G minor for Piano and Orchestra. A recent Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship winner, Wright has served as accompanist for the Male Chorus. The orchestra under the baton of Frank West, assistant professor of music and conductor of the Piedmont Youth Orchestra, will be heard in Schubert's Symphony No. 8 (‘Unfinished’) and Brahms’ Academic Festival Overture. The orchestra personnel will be made up of top players from the Davidson College Concert Band, the Charlotte Symphony, and Queens College faculty. Of special interest will be the appearance in the Davidson orchestra of selected advanced string players from the recently organized Piedmont Youth Orchestra appearing for the first time with professional players. A reception honoring the players will be held following the concert.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will have open house for the student body after vespers Sunday night:
Alexis
Hufford
McGeachy
Brooks
Johnston
Minter
Cumming
Lammers
Plott
Crawford
Lester
Purcell
Ghigo
Lord
Smith
Horton

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Renew your subscription now so that you may receive all next year’s DAVIDSONIAN beginning with the first issue next September. Don't miss important campus news. Only $2.00

Name
Address
City
Enclose Two Dollars
Bill Me Later

The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N. C.

Do You Think for Yourself?

(BUZZ THIS QUIZ AND SEE WHERE YOU LAND!)

“A little learning is a dangerous thing” means (A) it’s better to leave your mind alone; (B) people who act on half-knowledge often make mistakes; (C) beware of

“Never look a gift horse in the mouth” is good advice because (A) he'll bite; (B) even if his teeth show he’s old, what can you do about it? (C) there’s nothing in there anyway.

Assuming the salary is the same, would you rather have (A) a job with an assured income for life, but with no chance to increase it? (B) a job where you'll always be paid according to your abilities? (C) a job where you have to advance rapidly or be fired?

“The finer the filter strands, the finer the filter action” is a way of saying (A) don’t use chicken wire in a window screen; (B) Viceroy gives you the finest filter action because it has the finest filter strands; (C) the finer the filters, the finer the smoking.

When you depend on judgment, not chance, in your choice of cigarettes, you're apt to be a Viceroy smoker. You will have found out that Viceroy gives you the best filtering of any cigarette, for a taste you can really enjoy. A thinking man’s filter. A smoking man’s taste. That’s Viceroy!

*If you checked (C) on three out of four of these questions, you're fairly astute. But if you checked (B)—you think for yourself!

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows — ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER...A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

©1960, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.