More than half the sophomores replying to a poll conducted by THE DAVIDSONIAN in chapel Tuesday indicated they now have alcoholic beverages on campus, and 372 students stated they have kept them here at some time. The questionnaire on the college’s drinking policy drew answers from 697 students. Responses are shown in the accompanying box. The poll was similar to another one taken by THE DAVIDSONIAN in 1957. The 1957 poll showed 24% in favor of the drinking rule and 74% opposed. Figures for this week's poll were 12% for and 88% against. Opinion was divided on the question of allowing alcohol on campus, but a large majority are definitely in favor of allowing students to return to the campus after they have been drinking. A comparison of the two polls reveals feeling has decreased by 3% in favor of absolutely forbidding liquor on campus, increased 3% in favor of keeping it in automobiles, dropped 4% in favor of allowing drinking in fraternity houses on dance weekends, and increased 6% in favor of lifting all restrictions. Further student suggestions on Tuesday’s poll included allowing drinking in fraternity houses during functions, allowing it in the Union, and declaring fraternity court off campus. “Drinking is none of the college’s damn business,” wrote in one student.

1. Are you satisfied with the present drinking rule and interpretation?
12% Yes
88% No

2. What is your attitude toward allowing students to have alcohol on the Davidson campus?
28% absolutely forbidden
31% may keep it in automobiles
22% may drink in fraternity houses on dance weekends
13% no restrictions
6% other (see below)

3. What is your attitude toward permitting students to return to the campus after they have been drinking?
8% must not return under the influence
67% may return if he goes directly to his room
23% may return in any condition without restrictions
2% other (see below)

Student opinion on returning to the campus has become more liberal since the last poll. Five percent less requested absolutely refusing drunk students on campus, 7% more favored permitting students to return if they went straight to their rooms, and 12% more favored lifting all restrictions on returning to the campus. Added comments on this portion of the questionnaire suggested allowing students to drink at all and relieving students of the responsibility for enforcing the rule. On both polls, 65% of those replying indicated that they drank. The total of those who have kept alcoholic beverages on campus, however, has increased from 61% to 64%. Some 19% indicated they had consumed alcohol on campus. In answer to the question "Where?", they listed fraternity houses, dorm rooms, the parking lot, a janitor's closet, and Chambers Building. According to the response to questions involving the violation of current student body regulations, the breakdown was as follows:

4. Do you drink?
62% Yes
38% No

5. Have you ever kept any form of alcoholic beverages on the campus?
64% Yes
36% No

6. Do you at present have some form of alcoholic beverage in your automobile or in some other place?
28% Yes
72% No

7. Have you ever returned to the campus under the influence of alcohol?
29% Yes
71% No

8. Do you, or have you ever consumed any form of alcoholic beverage on the campus?
19% Yes
81% No

A comparison of the responses by class:

Have you ever kept alcoholic beverages on the campus?
Freshman: 6% Yes
Sophomore: 46% Yes
Junior: 58% Yes
Senior: 78% Yes

Do you at present have some form of alcoholic beverages on the campus?
Freshman: 0% Yes
Sophomore: 56% Yes
Junior: 12% Yes
Senior: 62% Yes

Have you ever returned to the campus under the influence of alcohol?
Freshman: 23% Yes
Sophomore: 8% Yes
Junior: 67% Yes
Senior: 86% Yes

Have you ever consumed any form of alcoholic beverage while on campus?
Freshman: 23% Yes
Sophomore: 20% Yes
Junior: 43% Yes
Senior: 43% Yes

FACULTY DECREES NEW RED BOOK RULES (See Page Two)

VOL. XLIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1960 NUMBER TWELVE

Faculty Postpones Soph Rush, Imposes Strict Rules On Hazing

Madras Boys’ Town Is Gift Fund Project
By PAUL TRAYWICK
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Surprise Proposal
By DON SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Managing Editor

In a surprise move led by Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz, the faculty voted to postpone the effective date of Sophomore Rush for at least one year. This vote followed the adoption of changes in the Regulations for Students prohibiting hazing and other such practices. The faculty action came after it had accepted a report of the fraternity presidents and made an addition to the Regulations for Students, the Red Book. (For Red Book changes, see Page Two). The fraternity presidents’ report to the faculty was similar to the proposals made in student assembly on Nov. 21. At that time, Sigma Alpha Epsilon President Tommy Covington outlined several specific changes which the fraternity presidents had suggested to the Faculty Fraternity Committee. This report called on the administration to appoint a Fraternity Liaison Officer, “who would be responsible for fraternity affairs and who would have responsibility and authority for insuring compliance” with college fraternity regulations.

REQUESTS ADVISERS
It requested that active advisers be appointed for each fraternity, to be responsible for oversight of the fraternity's total program and for working actively with the Fraternity Liaison Officer.sent to the Philippine Island for orphan relief. Solicitation for the 1960 project will begin Monday. Between 40 and 50 solicitors have been chosen. Each solicitor will cover one hall or a portion of a hall. The drive will last only one week. “Since the drive is to be very short this year,” said Rea, “students are urged to give their full support to the project.”

Goodykoontz Says Faculty Extends Holiday; Classes Begin January 3

The Christmas recess has been lengthened by one day and will now end on Tuesday, Jan. 3, at 8:20 a.m. Professor J. T. Drake, chairman of the Committee on Academic Scheduling, indicated that the faculty approved this action in its Tuesday afternoon meeting. This final decision came as a result of a recommendation by the Committee of Academic Scheduling to the Executive Committee, who agreed to the recommendation and voted to pass it. The matter was then brought before the faculty in the form of Executive Committee minutes, which they approved.

Factors considered in granting this extension were “traveling on Sunday after New Year’s night celebration, for some, and for those who live at distances, traveling both on Saturday and Sunday,” Drake said. He said the extra day was given because “we couldn’t see any good reason for not doing this.” Drake said he felt that a lot of faculty members would be “happy to stay home an extra day and watch a bowl game,” but he denied that this was a motive for the action taken. He did state that “nobody was adverse” to the proposal.

Drake reported that F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, indicated to the Committee on Academic Scheduling that adding this day as a holiday would not throw the Monday-Wednesday-Friday classes out of balance with the Tuesday-Thursday-Saturday classes. Drake said that “in most cases these are out of balance,” but this holiday will make the number of meetings equal.

BUZZ PARKER, Coach Charlie Parker's 15-year-old son, practices his part in a 25-piece string orchestra which will be one of the groups featured in the Christmas vespers service Sunday night at 7:30. This special service, entitled “A Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols,” is presented by the Department of Music and the YMCA at the college church. (Davidsonian Photo by Colvin).

Goodykoontz termed the presidents’ program as “the only specific plan yet advanced for enforcing the regulations concerning the fraternities.” He hailed the fraternity presidents as “leaders who have had the will and courage to take a stand which is in the best interests of the college, despite the disapproval of many of their (fraternity) members. I think these leaders deserve the support of the faculty.”

He pointed out that the institution of these changes in September of 1961—just when the presidents’ reform program would just be getting started—would place a handicap upon it that would make fair evaluation of it nearly impossible. Dr. Goodykoontz concluded the speech with this statement: “The bold, voluntary action of the fraternity presidents has provided another, and in my judgment, a better way to achieve the elimination of serious fraternity interference with the academic program of the college. It may not prove so, but at least, I believe, it deserves a trial.”

The report called for revisions of the Regulations for Students, to clarify the rules for fraternities, and to “indicate clearly the penalties for violations of these rules.” President Greer Martin briefly stepped out of his role as chairman of the faculty to read a statement concerning the fraternity president's proposal.

GOODYKOONTZ MOVES

Dr. E. A. Beaty, secretary of the faculty, and Dr. W. O. Puckett talk to DAVIDSONIAN reporters after last Tuesday's faculty meeting. (Davidsonian Photo by Colvin).

Drinking Rule Change

Martin: ‘It’s A Mistake’

Lacy: ‘I’m In Favor Of It’

Student and administration leaders met the Student Council’s proposal to strike from the constitution the “Under the influence” clause with mixed feelings. The Council unanimously passed the motion to eliminate the controversial clause at the regular Monday night meeting.

Dean of Students John C. Bailey declined to comment, asking for more time to consider the proposal over. President D. Grier Martin was pleased with the council’s action but did not move. “I feel like the complete giving up by the student government of any responsibility in the matter is a mistake,” Dr. Martin said. “While I realize that the duty imposed upon the general student body has never been truly effective, I object to giving up the ideal of enforcement.”

Scott Lacy, Chairman of the Honor Court, said, “I like it. I'm very much in favor of it.” Lacy said that this would put the burden of responsibility on the faculty, where it really belongs.

In a letter sent to the faculty last Tuesday, Student Council President Henry Shue stated, “It is important to note that we are retaining the student regulation against the possession or drinking of alcohol on campus and the regulation against ungentlemanly conduct for whatever reason, including drinking. Above all, the Student Council wants to make it clear that our proposal is not intended to give the student body free rein to drink.”

The amendment, which will effect the deletion, will probably be voted upon by the student body around Jan. 5. It reads, “No student shall be under the influence of alcoholic beverages on campus.”

The second annual Student Union Party will be held Dec. 16. Santa Claus for the evening will be Horton. The party, with a theme of Christmas in Many Lands, will feature a dance for which a busload of girls from Queens and Memorial Hospital will be imported. The name of the combo has not been announced yet, but the juke box will be turned on “free play.” Highlight of the evening will be a faculty-student contest at intermission. There will also be door prizes, games, and a caricaturist drawing free pictures. Russian tea and pizza will be sold at the snack bar.