FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1960

So Catfish Against Three For Title Tomorrow
By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Southern Conference swimming title is up for grabs this weekend in beautiful, snow-less Charleston, S.C., and the Wildcats are slight underdogs to cop honors.

VMI Favored In Loop Splash Meet

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Southern Mat Clash Begins Tomorrow
Milton Gee Carries Slim Wildcat Hopes

The Southern Conference Wrestling Tournament will be held here in Johnston Gymnasium tomorrow and Monday. Originally scheduled for Friday and Saturday, the meet was postponed for a day because of bad traveling conditions caused by the snow. The first session will get underway at 2:00 tomorrow afternoon, with the semi-finals coming at 8:00 tomorrow night. The consolations will be held at 2:00 on Monday and the finals are scheduled for 8:00 Monday night.

CHARLESTON, S.C. — THE DAVIDSONIAN learned this afternoon that Davidson stands a distant third after the two opening day events. VMI leads with 17 points, followed by VPI with 14 and Davidson with six. Citadel, a pre-meet favorite, has not scored. Tom Hudgins took fourth in the 1500 meters and Barry Branch was fourth in the 200-yard individual medley. Both Davidson divers have made the semi-finals. Coach Dwight Shoe said that his team still has an outside chance to win, Davidson’s strongest events being scheduled today. “It all depends on how we do today,” Shoe said. “The top three teams now should be pretty close.” The semi-finals are slated for tonight with the finals tomorrow.

As Coach Dwight Shoe reflected last Saturday after the Catfish dropped a squeaker at The Citadel, “Some meets you win; some you lose; and the others are rained out.” His squad is pitted against three conference powerhouses: VMI, Citadel, and VPI. Virginia Military is favored. Judging from regular season splashes, however, you would hesitate to pick a winner. Davidson has been beaten twice, by VMI and The Citadel. VMI has lost only to VPI. And the Wildcats hold a win over the Gobblers. The Citadel has yet to face either VMI or VPI. So the Catfish-Cadet clash in Charleston last Saturday provided Citadel’s only proving ground for the loop meet held yesterday, today, and tomorrow. The Citadel had been predicted the loser in that meet. Their barrier was to have been the first event of the evening, the 400 yd. medley relay. Both coaches figured the rest of the events would fall into place with the Wildcats winning half of them. But a Davidson relay team of Tom Smith, Stephen Young, George Gabel, and anchorman Barry Branch failed to stop the Cadets. Their time of 4:14.5 was three seconds better than Davidson’s time. “That lost the meet for us,” one of the Catfish offered. The medley upset was such a blow to Davidson spirits that the Wildcats were trailing 32-11 after the diving event. It looked like a long, uphill climb from that point. But, making a desperate comeback and breaking three school records, the Wildcats pulled even with Citadel, 44-44, with the 400 yd. freestyle relay remaining. Records that fell were: The 100 yd. freestyle by Barry Branch, a time of 53.7, passing the 1957 record time of 53.8 by Tommy Rivers. The 200 yd. backstroke by Tom Smith, 2:22.7, passing his own record set this year of 2:23.2. The 200 yd. breaststroke by Captain John Scott, 2:39.2, passing his own 1959 record of 2:40.4. Scott and Stephen Young were the central cogs in the comeback wheel. Both swam in the 200 yd. breaststroke and the 200 yd. butterfly, and both took first and second places, respectively, for 16 points. The final event saw the Wildcats spent and tired and losing. Relayers George Gabel, Bill Ambrose, Bob McDonald, and Bill Hellier were in on it. Final score, 51-44.

CAPTAIN JOHN SCOTT (left) talks strategy with Co-Captains Bill Hellier and Smitty Smith and Coach Dwight Shoe prior to the Southern Conference Swimming meet in Charleston. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells).

SAE’s Boost I-F Cage Lead: Sig Eps Clinch Handball Title
By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

After being rained out for three consecutive Thursdays, the I-F track meet got a change in the weather this week. Thursday was bright and sunny—but about a foot of snow covered the ground after Wednesday’s “blizzard.” So we report, “Next Thursday!” Weather permitting, of course. However, the white blanket did not cease action on the basketball and handball courts. With the season more than halfway through, we find only one undefeated club in each sport. The SAE’s are riding on top in the basketball race with an 8-0 record, while the Sig Eps have compiled a 10-0 mark in handball. Basketball got underway Monday night as the Phi Delts trounced the Pikas, 63-34. Bob Denham's 20 and Bobby Davis’ 16 paced the Phis. Jerry Shelton scored a season-high 42 points for the KA’s as they rushed past the Sig Eps, 96-67. The West Virginia soph poured in 16 field goals and hit 10 out of 11 from the free throw line. The SAE's out-defensed the Sigma Chis, 30-23. On Tuesday, the Phi Gams battered the Sig Eps, 88-30, as Freshman Larry “Weasel” Leafer gunned in 23 for the victors. Keith Fraser’s 18 paced the Pikas to a 46-34 win over the Sigma Nus. The Independents whipped the Sigma Chis, 61-47, due mainly to Jim Bloomfield’s 24. Wednesday night, the KA’s gunned down the Sigma Nus, 57-31. Doug Orr’s 14 paced the SAE’s, as they outlasted the Betas, 45-39.

VPI FAVORED
Of the five teams entered, last year’s runner-up, VPI, with three individual defending champions, and last year's winner, West Virginia, with one individual defending champion, should have the strongest teams. VMI, with two defending champions, should be very strong also. The Citadel and Davidson will be the weakest. An abundance of talent will be on hand, as a defending champion will be back in four divisions. Back to defend in the 123-pound class will be Bob Bowman of VPI. In the 130-pound class, VPI's Brandon Glover, champion for the past two years, will be back.The past week went as follows: 

Monday—the Phi Gams whipped the Pi Kapps, the Phi Delts downed the ATO's, the Pikas bested the Kappa Sigs, and the KA’s edged the Independents. 

Tuesday—the Pi Kapps beat the Sigma Nus, the Phi Gams nipped the Kappa Sigs, and the KA’s defeated the Betas. 

Wednesday—the Sig Eps downed the SAE’s, and the 

BASKETBALL

| SAE | 8 | 1 |
| Ind. | 8 | 1 |
| KA | 6 | 2 |
| Phi Delt | 5 | 2 |
| Phi Gam | 5 | 3 |
| Sigma Chi | 4 | 2 |
| Beta | 4 | 3 |
| ATO | 3 | 5 |
| Pika | 3 | 5 |
| Kappa Sig | 2 | 4 |
| Pi Kappa | 1 | 4 |
| Sigma Nu | 0 | 9 |
| Sig Ep | 0 | 10 |

There is no defending champion in the 147-pound class and last year’s runner-up, Milton Gee of Davidson, should have a good chance for the title. In the 157-pound class, Billy Daniels of VMI, who is undefeated in the conference, should repeat here. Charles Sherwood of West Virginia will be going for his third championship in the 167-pound division. No champion returns in the 177-pound division and Davidson sophomore Jim Alexander should be a top contender here. In the heavyweight class, Dennis Merklinger of VMI will defend his championship.

Davidson Coach Charlie Parker said that should Gee, Alexander, and heavyweight Alex Porter get good draws, they could go all the way. Drawing will be held late Friday night or Saturday morning. The Wildcat matmen finished their regular season this week with a 16-16 draw with Pfeiffer. The usual forfeit in the 123-pound class to Pfeiffer’s Bob Lovelace was costly, as the ‘Cats started the match down five points. Then Davidson began to come back as Milton Gee pinned Ted Drye at 3:34. In the 167-pound class, Davidson grappler Cliff Thompson decisioned Gene Whitesides, 15-4. Jim Alexander then took an 11-2 win over Pfeiffer’s George Conger. Trailing 16-11, Davidson got its second fall of the night as Alex Porter pinned Bob Asher at 5:38, pulling the ’Cats to the 16-16 draw. The draw gave Davidson a final 2-5-1 record for the season.

SIDE LINES

By B. MILLNER

ALMOST OVERLOOKED in the bustle of a nearly snowbound Southern Conference Wrestling tournament here this weekend is the conference’s championship rifle match, which will decide the official title-holder in the Southern loop. As far as we know, this is the first time two conference tournaments have been held at the same school at the same time—at least recently. Students can observe action on the firing line free of charge from 8:00 tomorrow morning until 4:00 in the afternoon, when the awards will be made. It should be a good show.

COACH TED KEESLER’S young tennis team will play one of the roughest schedules in the South this spring. The slate includes Miami, perennially one of the best in the nation, Carolina (twice), Duke, Presbyterian—consistently the best small college team around, and conference champion George Washington. Keesler has had his crew on the courts since the beginning of the semester trying to work up a winning combination. Whit Cobb, ex-Wildcat star and former tennis coach at Duke, was here early in the week to help Keesler smooth off some rough edges. Big Ted doesn’t seem to be too worried about that murderous schedule—says it’ll do his boys some good in the long run. But Charlie Parker swears he was out trying to shovel the snow off the upper courts last Wednesday morning.

LITTLE HUGH MURRAY took top honors in the Big Five Indoor Track Meet in Chapel Hill’s Tin Can last Saturday afternoon. Hugh won the broad jump over athletes from Duke, UNC, State, and Wake Forest, and sparked Davidson to a fourth-place finish in front of the Deacons. Other Davidson scorers were John Chiles—fourth in the broad jump, Pat Curry, fourth in the 70-yard high and low hurdles, and the mile relay team, which finished fourth. This was quite an accomplishment for Coach Whittle’s indoor crew, considering the competition and the fact that the only indoor track we have here is the main hall in Chambers building.

Local Riflers Host SC Meet

By MEL McKENZIE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Tomorrow is the big day for Sgt. Jim McCurry’s ROTC rifle team. Some 50 riflers will invade the campus for the Southern Conference tournament to contend for some 30 ribbons and plaques. Sgt. McCurry and Captain Jack Mitchell speculated that Citadel would be favored, followed by VPI, West Va., and VMI. “That's exactly the way it was last year,” said Mitchell. McCurry said carefully, “Right now, I’m afraid to say what our outcome will be.” And adding his usual comment, “It could go either way, depending on whether we have a good day.”

During tomorrow's Southern Conference meet, six men will be on the firing range at a time. The rest will sleep, read, or go sightseeing. All during the day, scores will be posted in the Student Union as the match progresses. The meet will begin at 8:00 a.m., continuing during the day until shortly before 4:00 p.m. President Martin, Dr. Johnston, and Dr. Scott will award the three top-placed teams, distributing plaques and ribbons to members of the leading squads. Colonel Adams will decorate outstanding individual marksmen. The top ten sharpshooters in the tourney will receive awards. McCurry said, “We can expect three of our boys in the top ten—Don Harper, Joe Warren, Stan Gaines.” To receive a possible 300 points, each man will make 10 shots prone, 10 shots kneeling, and 10 shots standing. The Top Ten will probably hit in the 260-290 point range.

Last Friday the Wildcats had a good day. Davidson retained the Western Carolina Conference by downing Wofford, Furman, and P.C. Davidson hit 1360 points, Wofford had 1375, Furman totaled 1374, and P.C. hit 1369. Six awards were distributed. Davidson won five of them. Joe Wearn took two himself, the high standing and the high season average trophies. For this year, the Wildcats had an 8-1 mark in the W.C.C., losing only to Furman.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Have a real cigarette—have a CAMEL
The best tobacco makes the best smoke!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
TURKISH & DOMESTIC BLEND CIGARETTES