FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

A LOOK AT... SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson College’s cross-country team, boasting a perfect record with five wins and no defeats, will journey to Greenville, S.C. next Friday to meet the Purple Paladins of Furman. Furman has “the same team it had last year,” according to Davidson Coach Heath Whittle. The ‘Cats copped the 1959 meet. The Wildcats ran their record to 5-0 with an impressive victory over V.P.I. and Catawba in a triangular meet in Blacksburg this past Wednesday.

‘CAT PACERS Sterling Martin, Bill Eckbert, and Dave Gilmour paced the ‘Cat victory by taking second, third, and sixth places respectively. Martin covered the 4.2 mile course in...

Quote, Unquote...

COACH DOLE let fly a golden quote this week, but he had noes ae for top honors. The Wildcat mastermind described the Davidson offensive attack at PC as “a backfiring Model-T Ford.”

COACH DWIGHT Shoe strolled into a Wednesday meeting he’d called for those who wished to try out for the swimming team. First question: “Can any of you boys swim?”

FINALLY, we leap back a couple of weeks to The Citadel football game here. After the Bulldogs had won, 21-15, a sportswriter from the RALEIGH NEWS & OBSERVER remarked, “This is the friendliest and most — campus I've ever set foot on.” Take a bow, Davidson.

Blowing Out The Candles

IT HAPPENED Oct. 6 in Chester, S.C., at the Davidson-Citadel freshman football game. Davidson's Russell Walls and Jim Fuller bore down on the Bullpup runner — Don Crabtree. As they made the tackle, something popped in Don’s back. He was taken to the hospital with a back injury. It was his birthday.

THERE WAS a turncoat in the Davidson stands at PC Saturday: Dr. George Staples, college chaplain, a guard for the Blue Hose in his college days.

Signs Of Winter

THE WINTER sports mentors came knocking this week with the following announcements: Varsity swimming practice begins Monday, with two weeks of “land drills.” Varsity wrestlers start to work Monday, checking out equipment on Monday and Tuesday. And freshmen inclined toward basketball should meet with Coach Joe Hunt Monday at 7:30 p.m. The ’Kittens play 18 games. Winter seasons kick-off in mid-December.

IF IT’S contact work you're looking for, try the football Wildcats. Two of the SS Cordle and Lou Zirkle—especially. Cordle lost the contact lens from his right eye in two successive games. Thirty-five bucks apiece. “I managed to keep them in last week,” he said. Meanwhile, Zirkle thought he'd lost his lens. Actually, the lens had rolled around to the back of his eye and teammate Mickie Slaughter had one heck of a time correcting Zirkle’s sight.

Score—If You Can

WEEK AFTER week the Wildcats continue to run rampant over their Southern Conference brothers on defense. After four games Davidson holds a lead over VMI with 210.3 yards per game. The ’Cats are second in pass defense and in rushing defense.

AT THE SAME time, two other varsity teams—soccer and cross-country—are boasting perfect records. Coach Whittle owns a 5-0 record, while Coach Marrette has won three matches.

WHILE DAVIDSON sits out an open date tomorrow, our staff will be at the Richmond-Citadel game. The Bulldogs, who topped the ’Cats by six points, are favored over the Spiders, 20-13. Richmond is here for Homecoming and it looks like a toss-up.

One That Got Away

WE TOOK a second look at the conference statistics this week to see VMI senior Howard Dyer leading everybody in total offense and passing offense. Dyer has 722 yards to his credit overall, has completed 38 passes for 597 yards and four touchdowns. Davidson “didn’t have room for him” four years ago.

Mama!

INCIDENTALLY, Coach Dole has cooked up some new offensive plays for the Spiders.

IMAC MADE a wise move to revise its Intramural rules and put them down in so many words. Any comments we may have on the rules themselves will come after the revisions have been made.

Two “Sports” For President

SINCE NO one else is judging on the issues, we feel free to make an observation off the path. Jack Kennedy will get our vote. He tried his hand at swimming at Harvard, later found it came in handy as his PT boat was shelled in World War II and he dragged his men to safety. Dick Nixon, by the same token, has exercised by bending knee to Ike these eight years. What has he gained from it? A busted knee (two weeks in the hospital) he suffered stepping from a car in Greensboro this summer.

BUT THE grand old sportsman is Ike himself. Ike, you know, is the man who thinks GOP means “golf.”

By JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Wildcat soccer team, which has no league affiliation at the present, is attempting to form a league with area schools and other teams that might be interested. To date, Davidson Athletic Director Dr. Tom Scott has written letters to six schools: Pfeiffer, Belmont Abbey, Emory, Mercer, High Point, and Appalachian. Enthusiastic replies have already been received from Pfeiffer and Appalachian, who are in the words of Dr. Scott, “very much interested.” Georgia Tech and Washington and Lee will also be contacted.

Soccer is not a Southern Conference sport; in other words, there is no soccer league within the Southern Conference. VMI and VPI both have soccer teams, but they are organized and run by students. As the situation stands now, Davidson meets such Atlantic Coast Conference foes as Duke, University of North Carolina, and N.C. State, but the Wildcat boosters have no championship or title to work towards.

“A league,” says Dr. Scott, “would give the boys something to work for. A league would also enable us...

Doctor Is Dubbed Wildcat Of Week

Our “Wildcat of the Week” tonight is not a Wildcat. He doesn’t even growl, so far as we know. He doesn’t go to school here. He went to Duke some years back. His name is Dr. Richard Wrenn. He’s a doctor in Charlotte.

We were in a predicament this week for a star. We thought of several Wildcats: Joe Kelly, who scored Davidson’s only goal in a soccer match Saturday; his teammate, Mike Laughlin, who has tallied a total of five points in three games. Sterling Martin, last week's “Wildcat of the Week," who won his third meet of the season against The Citadel Saturday.

Seeking help, we called on Coach Bill Dole for a suggestion and here it was we found our man. Said Dole, “Most everyone on offense did a good job for us Saturday. But for ‘Wildcat of the Week,’ I'd pick Dr. Wrenn in Charlotte.

“Why? Well, Dr. Woods (team physician) couldn’t make the trip to Clinton. He had a baby to deliver that day. So we asked Dr. Wrenn to go along and he did.”

As it turned out, the Wildcats didn't need the doctor. Davidson stayed healthy. Only one man—Harold Bynum—had to leave the game and he was just shaken up a bit.

“But it was important that he be there,” said Dole. “To make the trip, Dr. Wrenn had to leave his busy office in Charlotte, leaving patients to another physician.to diversify the schedule more.” “It's a fine sport and the boys are doing a fine job. We want to help them all we can,” he concludes.

Kappa Sigs, KA’s Take I-F Lead

The Kappa Sigs and KA's lined up Wednesday as the only two undefeated teams in flickerball. Meanwhile, the Phi Delts, brooding over defeat from the Sigs, handed the Betas their first loss. Game results of last Thursday and Friday and this Monday and Wednesday are as follows: ATO’s 26, SPE’s 19; SAE’s 14, Sigma Chis 20; KA’s 33, Pi Kappas 18; Kappa Sigs 44, Phi Delts 7; Phi Gams 45, Pikas 14; Betas 75, Independents 13 (the highest score this season); SAE’s 21, Sigma Nus 6; Pi Kapps 12, ATO’s 6; Kappa Sigs 54, Sigma Chis 0; KA’s 37, Pikas 6; Phi Delts 25, Betas 7; Phi Gams over Independents (forfeit); Pi Kapps 28, SPE’s 14; Kappa Sigs 49, Sigma Nus 0; ATO’s 27, Pikas 6; and Betas 19, Sigma Chis 13.

The top six teams:
Kappa Sigs (7-0)
Kappa Alphas (5-0)
Betas (6-1)
Phi Gams (5-1)
Phi Delts (4-1)
SAE’s (4-1)

Wildcats Welcome Open Date; Offense Oiled For Homecoming

touchdown for the opponent. Although Davidson led PC in the statistics department, a 6-0 loss goes down in the record book, and football players just don’t enjoy a “should-have.”

By STEVE CLARK

Carl Hunt, Ken Morton, and Grant McRorie, halfbacks, all have been playing excellent football. In fact, the whole defensive unit has.” The Wildcats’ head mentor went on to point out that offense will be stressed in practice sessions this week and for the remainder of the season. linebackers; Dun-in for a lot of passing in the four remaining games, since House led the Southern Conference in pass receptions last season.

SIGHTS HIGH?

However, the boys from lab hill will have to do more than course in 22 minutes and 43 seconds, well behind the winner, John Castagnola of V.P.I., who is the defending conference champion. Larry Leafer placed eighth, and Tom Martin and Bob Scales finished thirteenth and fourteenth for the Davidson Harriers. The final scores had a “much improved” Davidson team with 32, V.P.I. with 38, and Catawba with 57.

Harriers Top VPI, Catawba - Prep For

PULLING UP

Whittle said Leafer did an excellent job. “I wouldn't be surprised to see him running alongside Gilmour next week. He's really pulling up.” This victory came right on the heels of a “fine Davidson showing” last Saturday when the Wildcats came out ahead of The Citadel here at Davidson by a margin of 22-33. Martin, Eckbert, and Gilmour finished in one-two-three order to pace the Davidson team. While the varsity was paving its perfect record, the freshman harriers evened their record at 1-1 by defeating East Mecklenburg High School, 20-35.

TOP THREE

Tim Spire of the ‘Cats came home first over the home course. He was followed by Charlie Rowe and Steve Wood. The Frosh will have a chance to jump up over the .500 mark when they face the Wingate Junior College team here on October 20. Whittle’s “winningest Wildcats” are certainly looking to the Southern Conference meet at Williamsburg on November 21. These boys “have vastly improved since the season started and should give us the well-balanced team we need,” he said. After the Furman meet, Davidson will face Richmond here at home on October 25.

'Cats Wait With 3-0 Record

By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Editor

A Carson Newman soccer team that racked up eight points in a match last week comes to Davidson tomorrow at 2 p.m. to meet the unbeaten Wildcats. Davidson clobbered Belmont Abbey Wednesday, 7-2, for its third straight win.

LAUGHLIN SCORES

Senior center forward Mike Laughlin banged home two goals. Carson Newman, an unknown for the most part, toppled a novice Appalachian team last Saturday, 8-3. Said Davidson Coach Paul Marrotte, “If we play tomorrow like we did in the second quarter last Wednesday at Belmont, Carson Newman is going to be trouble for us.”

'CATS LET UP

At the half, Davidson led the Abbey by only one point, 2-1. “We let up in the second quarter after scoring two goals,” said Marrotte. Two of the Wildcats’ scores came on penalty kicks, from the foot of Greg Winkler, sophomore penalty specialist. “Frank Tullock at right fullback showed the best overall performance,” Marrotte said in praise of the sophomore. The Netherlands’ John Strating was lauded for his set-up efforts. Wildcats with one point apiece were Joe Kelly, Dave Irvin, and Charles Sasser. Kelly scored the only point Saturday as Davidson edged King College, 1-0. Marrotte credited the Abbey with having “a lot of scrap and fight.”

DUKE LOOMS

The Carson Newman match is a big one, but a team even bigger — Duke — is here next Thursday. The ’Cats nipped the Blue Devils by one point in 1959 in a thriller. Marrotte said, “I'll be disappointed if we don't defeat Carson Newman.” In coming weeks, Davidson takes to the road for matches with Pfeiffer, October 25 and UNC October 28. They return home and play host to Norfolk Amphibious Base November 4.

Cagers Have New Coach (Driesell) And New Hopes As Drills Begin

With a new coach at the helm, the Davidson basketball team begins practice tomorrow. Coach Driesell is aiming for a lot better record this year than the Wildcats displayed last year when they showed a 5-19 record. There will be nine lettermen returning from last year's squad: guards Bill Cannon, Jerry Bussell, Tom Harris, center Martin, Allen Millar, Bill Shinn, Jim Nuckolls, and Bob Moore. From the frosh squad will be high-scoring pivotman Bill Jarman plus Johnny Rogers, Joe Markee, and forwards D. G. Haywood Evans, and Danny Carrell. Coach Driesell said this about his probable starting line-up, “Nobody has any positions sewed up and the best men will be my starters.” Driesell stressed the point that he believes in conditioning and expects the Wildcats to be in better shape than the men they are playing against. The ‘Cat schedule is a tough one this year with such teams as Wake Forest, V.P.I., William and Mary, and Clemson putting the pressure on. Driesell had this to say about the team’s schedule, “All of the games are going to be tough, and we're going to play them to win concentrating on one game at a time.” More than anything else, Driesell wants student support. The basketball staff is planning to hold a clinic to go over the new rules and the systems of plays used by the Wildcats so that when Davidson plays the fans will know what they're doing. This will take place probably on November 21, and on November 28 an Alumni Game is scheduled to be played.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

LET US Freshen Your Impression FOR THE WEEK-END AT Jackson Cleaners

DRESS SHIRTS
Regular Price $4.95 and $5.50
NOW 4 FOR $16.50
White, Linen, Gold, & Stripes
Buttondown & Tab Collars
Long & Short Sleeves
RUSH WILSON LTD.