4Aue euuss ‘ \ THE DAVIDSONIAN | THE WHEEL

Past Editor Draws Armfield: He Believed In Davidson College

“The Wheel” is gone. Ed Armfield, editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN from April 1959 until the last of January, graduated at
semester’s end. He’s in Winston-Salem now, training with Reynolds and Company, stockbrokers—and waiting to begin graduate study at Harvard Business
School.

Editor Armfield guided THE DAVIDSONIAN through one of its stormiest periods. In the face of violent controversy, he was the
spokesman for those he termed “the silent majority.” He is suspicious of those who would violate time-tested practice for experimentation.
And his concern is deep for the future of the college where he will probably send his sons.

Staff members remember the editor at work at the print shop, putting in type and setting headlines himself when the
going got slow. He took his stance on a platform of pragmatism and conservatism, and he maintained it despite an
unprecedented flood of “liberal” complaint. They remember the ever-present cigar (Dutch Masters) and spare time gin-rummy games (he was a
winner).

“If elected, I'll take a firm stand where necessary,” he said in his campaign article last spring. And The Wheel
lived up to his promise. He was a busy editor. Staff members collected stacks of memos in the familiar round
scrawl: “Get faculty opinion on cuts,” or, “Come by my room tonight—no matter how late. I'll be up.” And the
visitor to his room found a clutter of newspapers and books—Armfield’s working tools. “Check the WALL STREET JOURNAL,” he would
tell new staffers, “It's got the best news leads of any paper.” Above his desk he tacked a feature by
Kays Gary of the CHARLOTTE OBSERVER. “Read it,” he told subordinates. “It’s a masterpiece.” And back copies of the U.
S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT littered his desk.

They remember staff meetings, hilarious and disconnected; and the editor's sharp reminder: “Let’s get on the job. We're still hurtin’
for news this week.” And now The Wheel is gone. People don’t ask whether his shoes can be filled; they
know the answer already. Ed Armfield was unique.

He studied stacks of newspapers from other schools. “Check page two of VIRGINIA CAVALIER,” a memo to a staff member
would read, “Good idea for your page.” He read voraciously. Some recent spare time material: William Buckley’s UP FROM LIBERALISM,
and W. D. Workman’s THE CASE FOR THE SOUTH.

Ed Armfield believed in Davidson. His respect for the Board of Trustees is deep; he reveres Grier Martin; his family
is studded with Davidson graduates—uncles, brothers, cousins.

Evans To Assume Alabama Pastorate

Dr. J. B. Evans, assistant professor of Bible, is leaving Davidson College the middle of next summer. He will become
the pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Auburn, Alabama, where he will be doing pastoral work and will have some
contact with the students at Auburn University.

Dr. Evans said, “These three years at Davidson have been extremely pleasant ones for me and my family in many
ways. I am grateful beyond words for the stimulating opportunities which have been mine.” He felt, however, that the bulk
of his training pertained to the pastoral ministry and that in the work there he would be able to work
with students as well.

Before coming to Davidson, Dr. Evans was assistant pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charleston, S. C., and studied
for two years at the University of Edinburgh.

(Editor’s note: The following is a reprint of an article which appeared in the January 8 issue of THE BLACKBURN
TIMES of Blackburn, England, located some 170 miles northwest of London. Laurens Walker was Editor of the 1958-59 DAVIDSONIAN, and
is at present studying at the University of London on a Rotary scholarship.)

During a brief stay in Blackburn, American Rotary Foundation scholar Laurens Walker, of South Carolina, paid a visit to THE
BLACKBURN TIMES. Laurens, a 22-year-old with an ambition for either education or law as a career, had more than a
special interest in the linotype machine—our picture shows him with the department's assistant overseer Mr. Russell Margerison.

At Davidson College, Charlotte, Carolina, Laurens edited a six-page weekly College paper, produced entirely by the student body. His most
thrilling moment in this country? Hearing Sir Winston Churchill speak. Said Laurens: “A friend and I travelled two and a
half hours specially to listen to this great man. He was just wonderful. To us it was like watching history.”

Laurens has been delighted to find British folk not nearly so reserved as he had been led to believe back
home. For him the people of Lancashire have proved the liveliest... “I’ve found you folks great talkers and great laughers.
That's just the way we are in Carolina, where we spend half our time talking and laughing about things.”

His opinion on a few things in Britain:

FOOD: Pretty similar to our own, though we eat more vegetables, salad and fruit. Lancashire hot-pot is terrific, even though
it was London where I first tasted it. But I’ve had enough roast beef to last me the rest of
my life. Most everywhere I go the folks say I must try a real old English meal of roast beef.

CLOTHES: Men’s styles that are popular now in the Eastern part of the United States were in fashion in England
25 years ago. Your clothes are better than ours, especially the woollens and the tweeds and they are about three
times cheaper than back home. Women's dress lengths here are about four inches shorter than in the States.

GIRLS: I guess they're pretty much the same anywhere in the world.

This week Laurens has addressed a number of local Rotary Clubs—part of his “mission” in this country. He was guest
of the Blackburn Club on Wednesday. Laurens Walker’s stay in Britain lasts until next June. We feel sure he will
collect many friends along the way.

(Continued From Page One)

that they will soon want to get back into the conference.”

Regarding the problem of finding good athletes who are able to pass the entrance requirements Dr. Scott stated, “We are
a liberal arts college with high entrance requirements: therefore, we get good students. I do not feel that the college
should lower its standards, but I do wish the admissions board would give more attention to the average student who
shows capability by his college board scores, yet may have as low as a C average on his high school
transcript. I do feel that the reason for the low grades of many of the boys wishing to enter Davidson
is that in high school they participated in football and many other extra-curricular activities.”

Question: Do you feel the athletic department has been receiving enough money from the college for scholarships?

“It would be hard to say yes, for we have been getting our ears pinned back this season. We would
still like to have more money, but realistically we feel that the college has leaned over backwards for us and
has been very generous.”

As a college sophomore, you're nearing the mid-point. Halfway through college—halfway through Army ROTC. Now...You face a major decision: Are
the gold bars of a Second Lieutenant worth two additional years of study in advanced ROTC? That question is yours
to answer now—before you register for your junior year. As you explore the facts, carefully weigh the traditional responsibilities and
rewards of serving as an Army officer...

1. Traditional responsibilities. To meet the command responsibilities of any officer, you apply the leadership principles absorbed during advanced ROTC
training. And your commissioned executive potential grows as you gather leadership experience.

2. Traditional rewards. In every organization, greater responsibilities mean greater rewards. Thus the traditional responsibilities and prestige of an Army
officer are matched by material advantages. For example, if you plan to marry soon after graduation—an officer's salary can be
a distinct advantage. A married 2nd Lieutenant earns a minimum of $3655.68 per month—plus substantial fringe benefits. Need more information?
Check with the Professor of Military Science and Tactics at your college or university. He'll be glad to discuss your
decision with you.

*Last year, 14,436 sophomores answered “yes” to this question—and entered advanced Army ROTC. These men already have proven their capacity
to shoulder executive responsibility.

Union's Black (Continued From Page One)

"down an offer with better pay because there's more opportunity for advancement here,” he explains. When Cafeteria Manager Stephanos took
a job in St. Petersburg recently, Mr. George Shaw became Manager and Black was promoted to Assistant Manager. Black states
frankly that he makes an “average” salary for his type of work, but says that in New York or Cincinnati
he could make more. “But Charlotte is my home. I was born there in 1909. I have two brothers living
there."

Bloodworth Joins Alumni Department

Frank Bloodworth, a 1957 graduate of Davidson, returned this week as an administrative assistant. As Assistant Director of Alumni and
Public Relations, he will assist John Horton, acting Director, with publicity and alumni affairs. “I’m married and have a daughter...
she’s thirteen. We live in the East section... I commute every day. Charlotte? I remember when the old Alhambra Hotel
was where Kress’ is now and the old City Hall was at the corner of Fifth and Tryon... now Charlotte
is overgrown... there are no facilities for young people... there's no place for kids to go on a date... two
hockey games a week, the movies (there’s only two good ones), bowling maybe, and that’s all... that’s why there’s so
much trouble... juvenile delinquency... there’s no clubs or parks, nothing... nowhere where the kids can go to have good clean
fun.”

While a student at Davidson, Bloodworth was managing editor and associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN; section editor of QUIPS AND
CRANKS, and a member of the WILDCAT. He was also a member of Eumenean Literary Society, International Relations Club, and
the Y.M.C.A. He served as secretary of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity; and was president of Alpha Tau
Omega social fraternity.

There will be an important meeting of all present DAVIDSONIAN reporters and any students interested in beginning work on the
paper Tuesday afternoon at 4 o’clock in the Green Room of the College Union. The DAVIDSONIAN is especially interested in
getting more freshmen reporters on the staff. Previous experience is helpful but not necessary.

He was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Army on graduation and entered the service immediately. Stationed for the major
part of his service at Fort Bragg, he was discharged in December. He began his duties here last Monday. Bloodworth
replaces John Trask, who has returned to graduate school at the University of North Carolina.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1960

Placement Program Opens For Seniors

The placement office is innovating an experimental program to help supplement the work of the guidance department in aiding seniors
to choose their occupation. Representatives from various companies will come to Davidson for informal meetings with interested students. These meetings
are tentatively scheduled for four in the afternoon, and will be quite informal. THE DAVIDSONIAN will print the names and
dates of the companies to be represented each week. Students are not required to sign up for these interviews, but
may be asked to sign an open book in order to be placed on a mailing list. In the meetings,
the representative will present a five-minute talk on what his company is looking for and what it has to offer.
The rest of the time will be a question and answer session and discussion.

C. Shaw Smith stated, “We think this is a much better way to work a Careers Day, by having it
available during the whole March-May interview season.” “We are trying to be helpful to students who are not ready for
placement,” said Mr. Smith. He urged that all students, not just the seniors, take advantage of this service.

Mon. Feb. 8
Piedmont Publishing Co.
Vick Chemical Co. (Juniors only)

Tues. Feb. 9
Vick Chemical Co.
Chase Manhattan Bank
National Aeronautics and Space Administration

Wed. Feb. 10
Trust Company of Georgia
Southern Bell

Thurs. Feb. 11
Southern Bell
First National Bank of Atlanta

Fri. Feb. 12

Viceroy cigarettes is extending the expiration date on the offer of their “Campus Jazz Festival” record album advertised in two
December issues of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Many top artists are featured and the record is still yours for one dollar and
two empty packages of Viceroy cigarettes. Send in the order blank today.

BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
Box 355
Louisville 1, Kentucky

Please send me postpaid record(s) of the Special VICEROY CAMPUS JAZZ FESTIVAL. Enclosed is $1.00 (no stamps, please) and 2
empty Viceroy packages for each record ordered.

Name
Address
City
State
Zone

This offer good only in U.S.A. Not valid in states where prohibited, taxed or otherwise restricted.

“A little learning is a dangerous thing” means (A) it’s better to leave your mind alone; (B) people who act
on half-knowledge often make mistakes; (C) beware of sophomores.

“Never look a gift horse in the mouth" is good advice because (A) he’ll bite; (B) even if his teeth
show he’s old, what can you do about it? (C) there’s nothing in there anyway.

Assuming the starting salary is the same, would you rather have (A) a job with an assured income for life,
but with no chance to increase it? (B) a job where you'll always be paid according to your abilities? (C)
a job where you have to advance rapidly or be fired?

“The finer the filter strands, the finer the filter action” is a way of saying (A) don’t use chicken wire
in a window screen; (B) Viceroy gives you finest filter action because it has the finest filter strands; (C) the
finer the filters, the finer the smoking.

When you depend on judgment, not chance, in your choice of cigarettes, you’re apt to be a Viceroy smoker. You
will have found out that Viceroy gives you the best filtering of any cigarette, for a taste you can really
enjoy. A thinking man’s filter. A smoking man’s taste. That’s Viceroy!

*If you checked (C) on three out of four of these questions, you're fairly astute. But if you checked (B)—you
think for yourself!

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows — ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

©1960, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
