THE DAVID

On Good Friday, the service will be divided into seven twenty-five minute periods. Between each of these periods there will
be a time for people wishing to come in late or for those wishing to stay for just part of
the service. “The Words From The Cross” will be the subject of the service. The Y.M.C.A. will start out Easter
Day by holding a sunrise service on the Richardson Athletic Field. This service will begin at 6 A.M. and will
last for approximately a half hour. Both of these services, the watch on Friday and the sunrise service on Sunday
morning, are open to the students of the college and the Davidson community.

Above is the architect's sketch of the John R. Cunningham Fine Arts Building. With about one-half the funds now in
hand, the college expects to let contract for construction within the next few weeks. Actual construction will start about June
1.

Union Head Discusses Artist Series Problems
By TOM COLVIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

This week the DAVIDSONIAN visited the office of Mr. C. Shaw Smith, director of student activities. Mr. Smith, after punching
his hidden “servant's button” and dispatching a stack of dictaphone reels to a secretary, wheeled around in his chair, leaned
back comfortably, and spoke. “Yeah, I'll be happy to tell you about the Artist Series.”

The Artist Series is directed by a committee appointed by the President. The committee is presently composed of Prof. Plott,
chairman, C. Shaw Smith, secretary, Professors Griffin, Patterson, West, and Marrotte. “Many people think Mr. Plott and I run the
series ourselves, but we don't,” the committee secretary remarked. He explained fully the functioning of the committee, pointing out spirituals,
no blues (to religious Southern people, blues were “sinful”). Of course, Josh agreed, but in New York, after cutting 16
sides he ran out of spirituals. So he recorded blues under a pseudonym, Pine Wood Tom.

President Franklin D. Roosevelt heard Josh's record album, “Southern Exposure” and became curious about Josh and invited him to the
White House to sing the songs from the album for him and Mrs. Roosevelt. Josh dedicated a ballad to President
Roosevelt, one of his “number of students backing numbers come by the Union office to talk about the series. For
the most part they are dissatisfied. They complain that we simply don’t have enough money. We are now operating on
between five and six thousand dollars, where we should have at our disposal no less than ten thousand dollars. We
simply cannot afford big names when we are staging seven attractions a year on such a budget.”

In 1950 Mrs. Roosevelt took Josh as her protege on a concert tour of Europe. In England, Norway, Sweden, Denmark,
and Scotland he sang to sellout crowds. At an Ambassador’s party in Copenhagen, even the king of Denmark sat on
the floor and joined in singing spirituals. In England, Princess Margaret asked Josh to sing “Don't Smoke in Bed.” His
scholarly research into the origin and development of many folk songs was rewarded with an Honorary Doctor of Folk Lore
degree from Fisk University in Tennessee. (One of his studies traced “St. James Infirmary” back to the British Isles in
pre-American days.)

Also, for the weekend Woody Herman will play for the semi-formal dance on Friday and Kai Winding will give a
concert Saturday afternoon and play for the informal dance that night.

FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1960

ROTC Inspector Hill Lauds Davidson Unit

“The most outstanding cadet ROTC unit I have ever seen.” This was the reaction of Colonel Carl R. Hill to
the Davidson College Cadet Brigade Review on Tuesday afternoon, April 5. Colonel Hill, PMS&T at the University of Georgia, served
as chief inspecting officer for the Review; he was assisted by Lieutenant Colonel Leonard C. Barker of East Tennessee State
College. The inspecting team arrived at Davidson College on the morning of Monday, April 4. After a meeting of introduction
with college officials, the visiting officers were taken on a tour of theROTC facilities and of the campus. The officers
also attended MS III and MS IV classes Monday morning. On Tuesday morning the officers attended MS I and MS
II classes. At noon Tuesday a luncheon was held for the visitors; this luncheon was also attended by college officials.
At three o'clock Tuesday afternoon the inspection team observed the Cadet Brigade pass in review. Captain Mitchell, Adjutant of the
ROTC department, had this comment to make: “The parade was the best I’ve seen since I've been at Davidson.” Following
the parade, an informal reception was held in the ballroom of the college union. Here a number of parents who
had come to see the parade gathered informally with the cadre of the Davidson College ROTC Department. Officials of the
college, the inspection team, and advanced cadets were also present. The inspection team departed from Davidson at 4:30 Tuesday afternoon.

Cadets! If you want to stay in college, let your enna popular entertainment. I'm pleased with the new IFC series
because they can step in here. The Artist Series offers what students wouldn’t get for themselves.” Mr. Smith observed that
the Artist Series can be a complete success in the students’ eyes only when big names were offered throughout the
year. The year 1962-63 was the most his attention to the talent the series is now capable of presenting. “While
we have not been able to present well-known personalities, we have constantly featured talent of the highest caliber. The reason
we have been able to feature such talented performers is that they do not have that expensive item, fame. But
what they lack in fame they make up in ability.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

THE FAMOUS OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

Do You Think for Yourself? (TAKE THIS QUIZ AND SEE WHERE YOU RATE)

YMCA Schedules Two Conferences

Dave Robinson announced two YMCA Conferences this week which will be available to all students. Both of these will be
held at the Blue Ridge Assembly in Black Mountain. The first Conference is the Southeastern Region YMCA Council, which will
be held April 22-24. Two of the main topics to be considered will be the establishment of a YMCA President's
School for the Presidents of this region and the establishment of a Faculty Adviser’s Conference. The second conference is the
Southern Regional which will include Student YMCA and CO.

The box lunch supper will begin at 5:30 p.m. Beginning at 6:30 Dr. Davidson and Mr. Blythe will speak informally
from the balconies of Phi and Eu Halls. LeGette Blythe is the author of “Miracle In The Hills,” “The Crown
Tree,” “Call Down The Storm,” and “Marshal Ney, A Double Life.” A native of Huntersville, Mr. Blythe is a graduate
of the University of North Carolina. After a distinguished newspaper career on The Charlotte Observer, he resigned in 1980 to
devote his full time to creative writing.

The spring Book-of-the-Semester Program has been cancelled, but a program similar to the one last fall will be held this
coming autumn. This was announced by the program committee recently. Russell Showalter, chairman of the program, stated two reasons for
the delay in plans. These reasons concerned the inability to find an appropriate author and a lack of funds to
tie the program.

Plans are being made now for our web anniversary. The following professors will have open homes for the student body
after vespers Sunday night:

GENERAL

Phone for the room. Our best mobile telephone system provided by this mobile telephone service is yours to enjoy right
now in many areas. And it will soon be available in other areas. This is a typical example of how
we use research—not only to meet today’s communications needs, but to answer tomorrow’s.

Smokers who think for themselves depend on their own judgment—not fad or opinion. The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows—ONLY
VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER—A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

Is this why they say, “Viceroy has a thinking man’s filter . . . a smoking man’s taste”? Answer to
that one is: Change to Viceroy and see for yourself!

*If you checked (C) in three out of four questions, you're swift on the pickup, and you really think for
yourself!
