FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN

A LOOK AT... SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

Don’t Count ‘Em Out

TOMORROW night's basketball opponent—Wake Forest—has been rated as high as 11th nationally in pre-season polls, but Davidson Coach Lefty Driesell isn’t conceding anything. And, since it’s his first college coaching season, that sort of puts him on the spot. The deciding factor could be student support. Home team cheering is especially effective in basketball, where fans can almost reach out and touch the court.

WE REGRET that Paul Marrotte has resigned as soccer coach. His 1960 team had the best record in soccer’s five-year history here. President Martin will name his successor.

INTRAMURAL basketball gets underway Monday at 7 p.m. IMAC heard a protest by the Phi Delts Wednesday on the eligibility of an SAE participant in the swimming meet. IMAC upheld the protest and is working to rearrange the order of teams in the meet. The SAE’s were second before the protest.

Scott Comments On Speech

WE ASKED Dr. Tom Scott, Davidson athletic director, to comment on a speech made by Dr. Theodore A. Distler Nov. 11 before Davidson’s Board of Visitors. THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER reported the speech the next day. Dr. Scott says:

It is very difficult to comment upon a newspaper article as the report may be out of context. I will comment upon the reported statement that intercollegiate football should be abolished in favor of some carry-over activities such as bowling, archery, and so forth:

Most educators agree that intercollegiate athletics are not an end in themselves and cannot be justified in an educational institution unless there is a good physical education and intramural program for all students also. At Davidson, for example, 58% of our student body is enrolled in an excellent physical education program where each student has the opportunity to learn the skills and rules of thirteen different sports, most of which will carry over into later life.

572 Participants

So far this year 572 students have participated in intramural flickerball, wrestling, and tennis and many additional ones will compete voluntarily in basketball, volleyball, softball, handball, track, and tennis. During the year an estimated 85% of the student body will participate in the intramural program. In our intercollegiate program, 38% (the national average for institutions of our size is 22%) of the student body will participate in the twelve sports.

Freezing In The Stands?

With the above statistics I am certain that Davidson students are not “sitting freezing in the stands” as stated by Dr. Distler. I further believe this is true in most of our colleges and universities. As for abolishing intercollegiate sports (football to Dr. Distler) we should all realize that an intercollegiate contest is an outstanding physical performance by a group of student perfectionists, the ultimate in physical education. It compares to the final performance of the Concert Band, the Christmas Concert of the Male Chorus; a dramatic production by the students: all representing the ultimate of our students in instrumental music, vocal music, and dramatics. Surely these concerts should not be abolished and replaced by playing a piccolo in the dormitory room, singing in the bathtub, or talking to one’s self—all of which have carry-over value.

Excellence Is Important

One of the things we strive for in our colleges is excellence whether it be in academics, athletics, music, dramatics, or many other areas. Davidson has such a program for which we should all be grateful. Let none of us be so rash that we would abolish that which exemplifies excellence on the part of all students but let us all strive to strengthen our existing program.

Pfeiffer Falls To ‘Cat Matmen

The first contest of the winter sports season was won by Davidson yesterday as the Wildcat wrestlers topped Pfeiffer, 23-11, in Misenheimer.

The ’Cats were strong in the light and heavy-weight classes, dropping the three middle-weight events. Next up is Duke, who will be here Wednesday night with both freshman and varsity teams. Coach Charlie Parker calls Duke “a pretty strong team...a whole lot better than Pfeiffer.”

Here are the results of last night’s match by weight-class:
123—Tom Wright (D) defeated Bob Lovelace, fall, 3:58;
130—Ed Peel (D) defeated Bob Crumbley, fall, 5:04;
137—Don Gabriel (P) defeated Charles Trask, fall, 2:04;
147—Charles Abel (P) defeated Butch LeDoyen, 13-2;
157—Jack Lewis (P) defeated Ben McCoy, 4-3;
167—Harry Brown (D) defeated Bob Asher, fall, 3:45;
177—Jim Alexander (D) defeated Ed Kohler, 4-1;
Heavyweight—Cliff Thompson (D) defeated Chip Cain, fall, 2:13.

“It looks like some of our sophomores came through,” said Parker.

This is all but necessary, since Davidson has only four returning lettermen. Among the sophomores, Parker singled out Wright and Peel for special praise. ‘But Harry Brown

“D” Club Initiates Twenty-three Men

Davidson’s “D” Club this week released the names of 23 students who were initiated into the organization Nov. 1. Club president is senior football guard Harold Bynum. Bruce Usher, football linebacker, is vice president and Dave Irvin, soccer wing, is secretary-treasurer.

The Fall Was Fruitful For ’Cats

The fall sports scene came to a close at Davidson College prior to the Thanksgiving holidays as the football, soccer, and cross-country teams completed their schedules. This fall’s sports action was highly successful for Red and Black participants, as the combined records of the three teams gave Davidson an 18-10 won-lost edge over tough opposition.

The football team came on strong to give Coach Bill Dole and fans a highly satisfying 3-5 record after it was 0-4. The highlight of the season was the 9-7 upset of VPI, which came when school spirit was at its highest. The season ended with a heartbreaking loss to Furman, who nipped the ‘Cats, 22-21, with a two-touchdown rally in the last five minutes. Danny

But there was bad news for soccer followers upon learning that Coach Paul Marrotte had resigned to devote more time to history.

The soccer team finished a fine 8-3 season by trouncing VMI, 4-1. Joe Kelley banged in three goals and was elected captain for next year, while Mike Laughlin finished a brilliant career.

The cross-country squad finished a 7-2 season as Coach Heath Whittle once again proved his ability to produce. Led by Sterling Martin, Bill Eckbert, and Captain Dave Gilmour, the harriers finished third in the state meet and fifth in the conference meet. Says Coach Dwight Shoe, “Clemson has a strong sophomore contingent and will offer us quite a bit more competition than they did in the past season, when Davidson won seven meets.”

TEE REDDING Wildcat Of The Week Puts On Passing Show

Furman had just scored and the Davidson supporters were wondering what had happened to the magic the Wildcats had woven into their two final games. Then, on first play from scrimmage, senior signal caller Tee Redding executed the option play to perfection, circling his left end for 56 yards. The nifty dash by Redding revived the ‘Cats, who, under the direction of their quarterback, promptly pushed

When asked which game he enjoyed most, he responded, “The VPI game.”turned in probably the best performance,’ he said: “Brown's opponent wrestled as a Heavyweight last year.”

NEW MEMBERS

New members include Dave Lovette, Butch LeDoyer, Graham Showalter, Jerry Shelton, Stefan Young, Lee Dixon, and John Chiles. Also, Jim Thompson won his bout handily, though outweighed, 220 pounds to 175. Bussell, D. G. Martin, Buddy Wrose, Harry Smith, Buddy Brauch, and Harry Cline.

Two of Pfeiffer’s grapplers running the pigskin into the end zone, Redding was at his peak in his final performance as a Wildcat. He completely reversed pre-season predictions saying Markee defends against Alumni’s Hobby Cobb (Photo By Wells).

Davidson Tankmen Open Season With Road Trip

The swimming team opens its 1960 season next week with a meet first against Clemson on Thursday and U.S.C. on Saturday. They had nine meets and finished second in the Southern Conference. South Carolina will be somewhat of an “unknown quantity” when Shoe’s swimmers face them on Friday at Columbia. Eight lettermen are back to bolster Coach Shoe's squad. Heading these are Captain Tom Hudgins and Stephan Young, both of whom are showing tremendous improvement thus far in practice. Other returnees include Barry Branch, Chase Hunter, George Gabel, Bob McDonald, and divers Jack Rose and Bill Whittington. Mike Winn and Hall Weeks are among those from last year’s freshman team to whom Coach Shoe looks to strengthen his team, and he is “delighted” at the fine progress made by Sophomore Chuck Frew, who is out for swimming for the first time at Davidson.

PAGE THREE

’Cats Hit Deacs In Opener

Driesell Makes Debut Here Tomorrow Night

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College basketball team launches its 1960-61 season tomorrow night in Johnston Gymnasium against the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest. The tip-off is slated for 8 p.m., immediately following the freshman game, which will get underway at 6 p.m.

The fray with the nationally ranked Deacons begins a 21-game schedule for the “new look” Wildcats, who are determined to better last season's poor record of 5-19. They have a new coach in Charles “Lefty” Driesell, who will make his debut as a college coach.

A WINNER

The new Wildcat mentor exhibited the ability to produce winning teams when he coached Granby and Newport News, two Virginia high schools, to four consecutive winning seasons. But the Deacons have a well-known coach also, Horace “Bones” McKinney, former C.C.N.Y. professional star, who is noted for his winning teams and his crazy bench antics. Last year, McKinney and his Deacons had a 21-7 mark, including the Dixie Classics Old-Timers Championship.

THE BOMBERS

Returning from that fine contingent are 6-8'ers Len Chappell and Jerry Steele, big men that backcourt men Billy Packer and Alle Hart, excellent playmakers and shooters. However, several key injuries may hamper the Deacons. Chappell and Steele are recovering from recent knee operations, and it is doubtful if they will be ready for action. Football quarterback Norman Snead has donned a uniform. According to Driesell, the ’Cats will be ready physically and mentally. Regardless of Wake billing, the Red and Black believe they can win and will be out to do so.

Shoe also mentioned for praise his “outstanding” freshman team. He singled out Dave Hollenbeck as one looking good in scrimmages and persists, “If we'll just play heads-up ball, we can beat anybody on our schedule.” Looking especially good has been 6-6 sophomore center Bill Jarman, who led last year’s frosh with a 21-point average. Besides Jarman, probable starters include the following lettermen: Bill Shinn, senior forward and leading scorer a year ago; Joe Markee, jumping jack senior; Jim Nuckolls, 6-7 senior who was hampered by an ankle injury last season; and Jerry Bussell, a junior who may turn out to be one of Davidson’s greatest backcourt performers ever.

Frosh Coach Joe Hunt contends that this year's Wildkittens have some of the best potential ever assembled here. They get a real test against the Baby Deacs and are expected to carry a load. Among those looking good are 6-7 Terry Nuckolls, Jerry Dillon, and Eddie Earle.

With the chiropractors smiling, the Davidson Alumni took to the hardwood Wednesday night in a scrap with the varsity that ended with the old-timers on the short end of a 76-43 score. However, the score belies the excitement of the game, for the Alumni bowed out only after a laudable and determined attempt. For the Alumni, with a roster that read like a legend of Davidson basketball, it was a night of spirit and reminiscences, a night of diehards and dazzling moments. Hobby Cobb put on a show of backboard magic both defensively and offensively, still displaying the Midas touch that made him Mr. Basketball at Davidson. Whit Cobb, Dean Ed White, Al Fitzgerald, George Cheek, John Belk, J.D. Ashmore, Mac MacLean, George Peters, Pat and Mike Williams, were outdone only in condition and polish. For the Alumni fans, the game was just short of Old Home Day. They rehatched old yells, chants, and antics, vigorously and spiritedly urging on their team.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

Let Us Freshen the Impression of All Your Clothes. Bring Your Dry Cleaning to Us So As To Be Ready For the Next Function.

JACKSON CLEANERS
Main Street
Davidson

the LITE

Jim is taking his son Bob on his first “white water” canoe trip...

Gantt... YOU HAVE TO THINK FOR YOURSELF... STICK TO THE WHITE WATER!

Jim had spotted the slate formation in the canyon and realized smooth, inviting slicks could hide ing flat rocks.

ALWAYS KNEW YOU’D GOT IT... AT BOTH ENDS!

GOT THE FILTER, VICEROY CIGARETTES

©1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CO.