**STERLING COMMENTS: Segregation Here Has World Impact**

By PETER STERLING

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1960

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

THOU SHALT NOT KILL. THOU SHALT NOT COMMIT ADULTERY. THOU SHALT NOT

Two of the greatest paradoxes in modern history are in evidence at the present time. The first is that the liberal democratic tradition of the U.S., manifest in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, has been superseded by a crass materialism, symbolized by the divinity of Gross National Product, the adoration of creature comforts, and the desire for security, while the socialistic materialism of Marxism has been transformed into theocratic infallibility by Communist Russia. The second paradox is that even with the emulation of materialism, the U.S. has fallen behind Russia in many areas of national strength in the past fifteen years. Russia has developed into the leading nation in space exploration, and has made remarkable strides in medicine, education, agronomy, chemistry, and transportation.

THOU SHALT

In the past twenty years, world responsibility has been foisted upon an immature U.S. Our foreign policy has become a monomaniacal drive against communist aggression in order “to give the rest of the world a chance to live under a democratic system.” In this drive for world alliance, it has been difficult for Americans to comprehend that most nations in the world do not care about democracy. The new nations want independence, a stable economy, and world recognition. The lack of international understanding, the decline of western idealism, the fanatic desire for the “good deal”—all have weakened the U.S.’s position. Eventually, the world will no longer be divided into two armed camps. The Afro-Asian Bloc will serve as the balance of power, or perhaps The Power. It would be in the U.S.’s best interest to alter its policy and its national attitude from one of fantastic countering of every Russian movement by developing a concrete standard of morality to offer new nations.

THOU SHALT HAVE NO OTHER GODS. THOU SHALT NOT MAKE ANY GRAVEN IMAGE. THOU SHALT NOT TAKE MY NAME IN VAIN. REMEMBER THE SABBATH DAY. HONOUR THY FATHER AND MOTHER.

Education Too Valuable To Ignore

Prejudice is almost unavoidable to a person who was reared in the South. But try as we have to find one, a significant justification of a segregated Davidson is almost non-existent. Almost a year ago, the Board of Trustees accepted the report of a special committee appointed to study the problem of admitting qualified Negro applicants to Davidson. Such an application had been made.

THOU SHALT NOT BEAR FALSE WITNESS. THOU SHALT NOT

If we try to discuss it with leaders of the college, we are shushed. If we try to discuss it with certain students, we are met with vehement oaths and emotion. If we try to communicate directly with the Trustees, every word must go through the administration. The Supreme Court had stated its position. So had the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church of the U.S. It was Davidson’s turn. She professed to be a Christian, liberal arts, educational institution, supposedly dedicated to “the search for truth.” Many thought her to be a leader in Southern education.

To be sure, this is a private institution that can admit or reject any student it likes. But does this absolve the college of her obligation to society and Christian principles? We think not. The result of the committee’s report was the terse announcement by the Board that “it is not in the best interests of Davidson College to admit Negroes at this time.” That was all. No explanation, no reasons.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: Student Discredits Race Poll

Davidson College, when she denies entrance to any qualified applicant, regardless of color, is not only discriminating against that applicant, but is denying a point of view and valuable interchange of ideas to her students. We fail to see the reasoning and wisdom behind the decision to blindfold a student to situations and deny him the opportunity to cope with them. Are these means to a well-rounded intellectual experience? We do not deny that there are practical aspects to be considered. But these aspects should be the only deterrent to Negro admission. Different points of view are necessary to solve the problem, and it is for this reason that we urge the Trustees to appoint a committee, including students and faculty members, for the purpose of discussing it.

Where Is The Bugbear?

When DAVIDSONIAN editors asked various members of the faculty and administration for comments on the racial question (see page one), we were astonished at the reaction. It seems that the racial bugbear has caused many individuals to turn face to the wall. If it is ignored, maybe it will go away. We doubt it. It is their privilege to make no comment if they feel they can't. But to explain this reaction by saying that the question is not on the agenda of the Trustees, or that a statement would be “inappropriate” at this time leaves something to be desired. True, it isn’t on the agenda. We feel, however, that it should be at the very top. One official said that

A Giant Step

Westminster Fellowship’s meeting with Dr. Richards tomorrow night is another giant step in the right direction. One of the questions we hear most discussed is the Philosophy of Education, with emphasis on the Faculty Oath, the curriculum, and aspects of a Christian education. WF is taking the lead in establishing means whereby students can get first-hand information on these topics. Mr. Gorrell’s appearance was a tremendous success, and we expect the meeting tomorrow night to be equally successful.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER

Associate Editor Jim Hamilton Managing Editors Ervin Duggan Bob Moore B. Millner Tom Colvin Sports Editor Feature Editor

“The Board has enough to do without having to go off on a tangent on this thing.” If this is the attitude prevalent among faculty and administration officials, it looks as if no problem has a chance of emerging from the administrative blanket. And we further say that no time is “inappropriate” for discussion of such a pertinent issue, no matter what camp the speaker is in. Anyone can be wrong, but if he is, he will certainly not discover his error if the question is repeatedly hushed up. In short, we feel that only if one opens his eyes, ears, and mouth can a problem be solved. We hope to see a better interchange of ideas in the future.

Along the same line is David Robinson’s seminar on the Philosophy of Education. This informal group takes up valuable time, but it repays it with an even more valuable experience. We are glad to see that students are interested enough in these basic questions at Davidson to actually do something about them. It shows, we think, a thirst for answers—ones that cannot be found in an answer book. The meeting tomorrow night, however, won’t do the good it can if only a few students appear. We urge our readers to make the most of this opportunity.

Dick Smith Dave Gillis Assignments Editor David Jordan Copy Editor Russ Showalter Cartoonists Redding Ackerman Advertising Manager Charlie Rowe Circulation Mgr. Albert McClure, Jr. Ass’t. Business Manager Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Independent Raps IMAC Ruling

Larry Wells

Dear Editor:

If serious issues are to be considered at all, they must be considered in a serious manner: an issue of such import as the admission of Negroes to the Davidson Student Body, involving both the well-being of Davidson College and the peace of Christian consciences, warrants slightly more responsible handling than was demonstrated in the casual and somewhat frivolous “poll” which was made in Tuesday's chapel.

It was obvious to any intelligent person that the procedure followed was worthless, and could not possibly obtain anything approaching a true and exact revelation of student opinion. The slipshod affair was not even dignified with announcement or explanation from the stage, and those who bothered to answer the questionnaire were left to their own devices in interpreting its contents. This is enough to disqualify its results from any serious consideration or attention.

This is not written to be picayunish; it is written with an awareness of both the gravity of the issue involved and also of the necessity for dealing with it in a responsible manner. No one would imagine that college policy will be radically changed or finally determined according to its results, yet these results will certainly be noted, especially by those who agree with them. But the principal danger of this poll does not consist in the unscientific nature of its findings;the harm it will do is to confuse even further what the real issue is: whether Davidson College is to determine policy on a moral issue according to majority vote, or in conformity with the Law of God. 
Larry Wells 
Allan Gravely 

Dear Editor: 
At the end of last semester approximately fourteen fraternity men decided to quit their fraternities and asked several of us who are Independents about playing on Independent athletic teams. Since the Independents have no system of bidding, any man who de-pledges or goes inactive is automatically eligible to play for us (since once he goes inactive he will not play for his fraternity). Coach Whittle, for some reason or other, suddenly became a fiery champion of the fraternity system, fearing perhaps that everyone would suddenly desert those shabby, ill-planned huts the administration was so kind to build and become radical, Bohemian Independents. He passionately opposed such a shocking move because it would be absurd if the Independents were perhaps to win one or more of the intramural championships. Everyone knows that they are generally spastics, and it would not make the fraternity boys feel very good to lose to such a group. Of course what the IMAC has done is absurd and will have to be revoked at least by the beginning of next year. Theoretically a man may be in a fraternity, but practically (and this is the only way in which the IMAC is concerned) he is an Independent. I don’t see how anyone can justifiably stop a man from quitting his fraternity and playing for the Independents. I certainly shouldn’t think Coach Whittle has to worry about losing too many of the good old fraternity boys to the Independents. 
Allan Gravely. 

Comments On Poll Indicate Flippant Student Attitude 
"I just don't give a damn what Davidson does after this year." Thus read a comment written by a senior on the recent Davidsonian poll on the race question. Thirty-seven students out of the 647 returning the poll preferred to make their own statements rather than check one of the statements on the poll. Most of the comments were in favor of integration. The freshman class provided the most comments. One student wrote: “I believe that it would be quite foolish for Davidson College to jeopardize the standing it has attained in over 100 years of educating young men by yielding to the cry of ‘Un-Christian.’ I feel that the question is very touchy, but I'm sure that the Presbyterian Church has Negro Colleges as does my denomination. I am not a confirmed segregationist. I think that integration will come, but I hope not to Davidson College." Another commented, “I want the Christian thing to be done, but I don't know what the ‘Christian thing’ is in this situation.” “We could use a few ‘tall niggers’ on the basketball team,” was one student's suggestion. Another statement submitted: “I believe that any boy, regardless of race or color, is entitled to receive a college education, and, if his academic record is satisfactory, to receive that education at Davidson College.” One student observed: “Has not Davidson College already broken down the ‘race and color’ barriers referred to? For example, Sung Kyu Kim, Mario Acuna, etc. It is, I believe, a matter of adherence to strict standards regarding scholarship and general character when considering a student for admission. These are the only bases necessary.” Another student made the following suggestion: “It appears to me the way the recent editor seeks to make a ‘hit’ here is to twist the knife a little harder. If you seek to have things changed so, sir, why don't you leave?” The sophomore class also managed to hand in a number of comments. The most interesting was: “We keep this school as a rule free from ‘integration’ of women as well as negroes. Why are we accused of being prejudiced against negroes who are academically qualified when by merit of sex, not race, we also keep women out? Are we prejudiced against women?” Another student wrote: “I don’t know whether or not color and race lines should be removed. I only wish the Trustees would do what they feel is morally and ethically right regardless of what is best for ‘the good of Davidson.’” Junior and senior comments were scarce. Many of these were very short comments. “Never!” “Keep ‘em out.” Other comments were “I believe that Davidson College should take the leadership in white supremacy in the New South,” “I didn’t come to the South to go to school with Negroes. I could have done that at home.” One student had this to say: “I would not be interested in sending my sons to Davidson College if Negroes were ever admitted.” Another student submitted the following: “Society would prevent any sort of integration at a social and scholastic institution that has a background of many years backed with Presbyterian tradition. The trustees, alumni, and students would tear this college into irreparable pieces—and Davidson College as we know it now would cease to exist except in memory. Such is society.” The time is approaching, aided by rapid industrialization, immediate nationalization and the “population explosion,” when the US will no longer be able to coerce and cajole. Such a policy, therefore, is more than a philosophical tenet concerning racial equality or individual enlightenment or self-determination; it is simply sound politics to consider the nations of the world as more than potential enemies of Russia. These people need initial aid, both monetary and technical. (We must realize nevertheless, that this aid will not necessarily ally these people with us; it will only serve to help them develop their society to a degree to support independence.) At the moment, there are few places in the world where thorough technical training can be attained. The US must make its vast educational and technical resources available to these people. Governmental grants, corporation, church, and private scholarships will be necessary to train men and women in medicine, education, agronomy, economics, finance, and myriad other areas. At the present time, the US is woefully weak in this area. We cannot afford to live in the myth that newly developing nations will automatically gravitate to the US pole. Either we learn to rub shoulders with blacks, yellows, and whites now or they will rub our noses into the ground in the future. We are not so superior or chosen that we can afford world segregation. Davidson College should consider wisely its role as a national educational institution and as an instrument for world development. The concept that “the race problem” exists only in the southern part of the US is fallacious, myopic and, I believe, detrimental to the US. Perhaps the present policy of Davidson is in its ostrich tradition, the wisest; however, when those men of authority at Davidson determine the college’s position they should not only determine its effects upon white Protestant Presbyterians now, but also upon future whites. 

Faculty Poll Reaches Trustees Tomorrow 
Results of a recent faculty poll on the Trustee Segregation Policy will be presented to the Board tomorrow. The poll’s outcome has been kept secret pending arrival of the Trustees, but a faculty source this week said there is “little doubt” that a majority of the faculty disapprove of the Trustees’ racial ban. One rough estimate of the voting set the majority at 31, with a minority vote of 19. Present indications are that conservative faculty members are dissatisfied with the poll outcome. A petition has been circulated affirming the policy-making power of the Trustees; this petition was defeated as a substitute resolution to the faculty poll at the faculty meeting. The DAVIDSONIAN was this week unable to find any indications that Trustee policy-making power is in serious jeopardy. This would indicate that the conservative petition is not a proposal or a gauge of opinion, but a subtle reminder to the Trustees that the faculty poll does not obligate the Board to act. As one faculty segregationist put it: “We have the assurance even now that the Trustees, not the faculty, are the ultimate policy-making body.” Will the Trustees act to revise or explain their stand? On the eve of the meeting, no one has an answer. 

Pall of Silence... (Continued From Page One) 
race rule removed. I do not see how a Christian college can justify such a rule. “We have the unique opportunity to lead in a wonderful thing. I am convinced that integration will come about and I don't think that we ought to postpone it indefinitely. “I would like to stress that this is my personal opinion. I do not see why anybody shouldn't express a personal opinion for one can certainly take a stand and still realize that the Trustees have the final say-so in the matter. “This does not rule out the individual’s freedom in expressing himself. If men didn't have this right then there would not be any progress. The status quo would never change unless someone was dissatisfied with it and spoke out against it.” Dr. Trakas, who will assume duties as professor of Spanish at Florida Presbyterian next year, commented that he didn’t believe that the new school would have any restriction that excluded students because of race, creed, or color. Dr. Satterfield of the Music department, who will also transfer to Florida Presbyterian next year, commented that, “An educational institution loses its definition to the extent that it accepts students on any other grounds than their qualifications for learning. There is no consistency in a church's hiring missionaries to save colored souls for eternal segregation.”