Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1960
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Woeful Lack Of Creativity?

It is evident that over the past few years Friday chapel programs have not been more than mere announcement periods. Due to the lateness in the week and the nature of the programs, Friday chapels have failed to stimulate student interest. Student interest can be increased by changing the day for the Student Council chapel from Friday to some day earlier in the week, preferably Wednesday. As it stands now, by Friday most students are busy trying to complete the week’s work before the weekend trips and, consequently, would prefer to have as much free time as possible on Friday.

With intelligent planning, the Student Council chapel can provide an opportunity for many students to present their ideas who otherwise might never be heard. Debates can be arranged between students and members of the faculty regarding the various college policies such as: athletics, admissions, and the academic program. Henry Shue has said that he hopes to “stimulate more real depth thinking” (see article on this page). We think this is possible through carefully planned chapel programs and we encourage him and his council to concentrate on stimulating student thought and discussion.

If the Student Council isn't able to provide worthwhile chapels, the Religious Life Committee will most likely take over the planning of the programs and chapel time will be available to the council only by special permission. We hope this will not be necessary, for it will only be an admission of a woeful lack of creativity on the part of Davidson students.

RLM

A Step In The Right Direction

In its first official action of the year, the fledgling Student Council has taken the Court of Control out of Friday chapel and has shortened the period of enforcement. After a false start every spring for the past four or five years, a council has finally taken a step in the right direction. The trouble is, where the Court of Control is concerned, a giant step was needed and only a medium-sized one was taken.

The Court, even this revised Court, serves only as a symbol of decadence. Only three of its regulations are worth keeping and they could easily be enforced by a Student Council committee or some similar student government group. Freshmen should be required to wear name tags and to learn the college pep songs and cheers. An effort should be made to cultivate the habit of friendliness in them. But we don’t need seven or eight hefty D Club members to keep the law and order.

Abolishing the traditional Friday call-down is the only move a just, logically-thinking student council could have made. The nature of the Friday purges themselves made them unfair and unjust by our standards of legality. To freshmen, the punishment resulting from a violation of the regulations was not running stud for a hall in Belk, but being ridiculed before the student body in chapel. And this punishment was enforced before the freshman had a chance to defend himself during the “trial.” In short, he was considered guilty until proven innocent. It’s supposed to be the other way around.

Perhaps moving the Court of Control out of chapel is the key to the whole problem of the Court. Certainly the significant shortening of the period of regulation enforcement will keep this old tradition from being the usual tiresome, long-drawn-out affair. The Student Council did not take the giant step of abolishing this police body in favor of a more constructive group—but they took a medium-sized step, which is better than nothing. We congratulate them on a good start.

A Bewildering Problem

Tuesday morning the chapel walls echoed a familiar word—lethargy. Glyn Hughes observed that this is the element about Davidson that “absolutely astounds” him. Hughes was not the first person to make this observation publicly. Last year, practically every chapel speaker was expected to make at least a passing reference to the problem of apathy on campus or in our society as a whole. This year the “apathy vogue” has diminished somewhat, but nonetheless it has not totally disappeared.

Perhaps the reason apathy has become a less-discussed topic is that the campus has come to realize that the accusation is valid. If apathy is discussed less for this reason, the editors must admit that we too are appalled at the situation. Our Benjamin Franklin type of common sense philosophy tells us that the battle is half won when we realize exactly what the problem is. Yet, in the case of apathy, such knowledge has proved of very little worth. We simply sit back and with an apathetic expression on our faces admit, “Well, I guess I'm apathetic.” Our salvation is that “the rest of the country is the same way.”

Our attitude has grave implications for our society. Lassitude and indifference are hardly signs of health. When we as editors search for solutions, we find ourselves bewildered for how does one stimulate a genuine interest in a person who simply isn’t interested? Yet, bewildered or not, we find ourselves desperately alarmed over our doped intellectual senses.

TBC

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
Assistant Editor Tom Colvin
Associate Editors Ervin Duggan, Bob Moore
Managing Editors David Jordan, Don Saunders
Sports Editor Bill Godwin
Assignments Editor Russ Showalter
B. Millner, Charlie Rowe
Feature Editor Ran Shaffner
Copy Editor Jack Hand
Cartoonists Ackerman
Advertising Manager Olin Nisbet
Circulation Manager Butler Bennett
Assistant Bus. Manager Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Feeding Time

QUALITY MUST IMPROVE
By Ackerman

New Council’s Action To Decide Fate Of Present Friday Chapel
By BOB MOORE
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Increased complaints regarding Friday chapel programs have brought action by the Religious Life Committee, announced Dr. George Staples this week. “Over a year ago the Religious Life Committee passed a resolution strongly urging the Student Council to make constructive use of the Friday chapel periods,” said Dr. Staples, the committee chairman, in a DAVIDSONIAN interview on Wednesday. “The Student Council has done nothing about Friday chapels.”

“At its February meeting the Religious Life Committee discussed the total program of religious exercises, and made a statement which represents the thinking of the committee at the present,” Dr. Staples continued. “The statement is still in the proposal stage. The committee feels the Student Council should have another chance and is waiting to see what success Henry Shue and his council have with the Friday chapels before voting on the statement.”

The statement is as follows:

Anytime the Student Council wishes to present relevant matters in chapel this time will be available provided the council plans well in advance and reserves the dates on the chapel calendar. The council may use these periods to conduct student body elections, discuss pertinent matters of campus life, and deal with other business. It is not proposed that this be a period only for announcements; otherwise, the period will be utilized for the presentation of speakers both from outside and within the college, and other programs of interest and benefit to the student body.

When questioned as to what changes he plans to make regarding Friday chapel programs Henry Shue said, “I hope over a period of several weeks the Student Council will be able to have programs which will appeal to boys of every interest. The council can present issue-raising, question-raising programs that deal with the very basic questions of life.

“Many boys have not been given an opportunity to have contact with the fine arts,” Shue continued. He feels Friday chapel programs could show the value of a closer acquaintance with the fine arts. “Students could communicate with the faculty and other students about the philosophy of education and the real values involved. Friday chapel programs can give boys an opportunity to express ideas which are generally not appropriate for denominational group discussions and voluntary chapel.

“I feel that intelligently planned programs can raise the level of thought and discussion of students here and stimulate more real depth thinking of the sort which should characterize a true educational institution.

“The programs should not be limited to religious and philosophical questions, but should be open to any student or group of students who have thoughts they would like to communicate.”

Shue concluded, “I think we would do well to change the name of Friday chapel.”to assembly and make no pretense in the name that the program is of a religious nature. I would also favor changing the Friday chapel to Wednesday so as to attract more student interest by avoiding the weekend rush.”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

THE STUDENT SOLDIER:

Hostage in one area. prose on paper. An example, taken from Euphemisms and Cliches: How To Delouse Individuals Or The Art Of Counting Fog By ERVIN DUGGAN Davidsonian Associate Editor

The U.S. Army, not usually described as a subversive organization, is doing an effective job of small-scale sabotage in one area. The victim: English composition. The villain: Army textbook writers, who compound into their various manuals some of the foggiest English.

DULLEST WILL BE DROPPED

Next year, with the changes in advanced military classes at Davidson, several of the ROTC manuals will give way to academic textbooks. Some weapons manuals—perhaps the dullest of all the ROTC books—will be dropped from classroom lists. But many will remain, full of writing which is usually translatable but almost never clear.

LONG, STILTED PHRASES

An MS III manual: “Management of movement capability of the transportation service is concerned with realizing maximum movement capacity over lines of communications.” (ROTCM 145-70, p. 294). The passive voice reigns supreme. And Army authors seem always to prefer the long, stilted phrase to the clear, brief one.

“RENDER TIMELY ASSISTANCE”

“To help” in Army jargon becomes “to render timely assistance” (ibid., p. 3), and “chronologically” becomes “in point of chronology of occurrence” (ibid., p. 3). Soldiers are always “personnel” or “individuals”—seldom just “soldiers.” (One photograph in ROTCM 145-70 is soberly captioned, “How To Delouse Individuals.”)

LITERARY BOG

In the military idiom, nothing is merely “used”; it is “employed.” And no “levels” exist in the military hierarchy: only “echelons.” Another example: “Paralleling this development was the growth of the realization within the armies themselves that the soldier was no mere automation responding mechanically, but an individual who gained in effectiveness when consideration was afforded his feelings, welfare, and morale.” The student’s welfare and morale, needless to say, get a rough workout in this sort of literary bog.

HOW TO COUNT FOG

Impressive but undefined terms crop up periodically. One manual taught this year to MS IV classes at Davidson includes such terms as “transceiver network,” “fluid situation,” “slow-moving situation,” and others employed without explanation. How does such writing get done? Part of the answer lies in the Army's “fog-count” system of composition. The theory of fog-counting is that a sentence with few syllables is a good sentence. Aspiring military authors are taught to count up the syllables in all their sentences. But the theory doesn’t always work. Some writers evidently forget to count fogs. And even the most fanatical of fog counters apparently ignore the archaic rules of good expression from time to time.

JARGON

The result? Such ringingly clear writing as this: “While the basic and general principles of one service may parallel somewhat the basic and general principles of the other arms and services, the application of these principles will, to a great extent, differ.” In the face of such ambitious composition, the reader is almost embarrassed to ask, “Differ from what?” And he need not ask. The manual does not say.

NO BIG PROBLEM

Is the miserable writing in the military manuals a big problem? If so, nobody cares much. Maybe wide-range comprehension is not imperative on the part of personnel where the aforesaid manuals are utilized on instructional echelons...

Senior Defends Paper, Campus Criticism; Church Elder Explains Session’s Vote

Dear Editor:

The DAVIDSONIAN has recently been publicly criticized for directing “scurrilous and belittling criticism” at the college and things in general. I should like to offer evidence to prove that this criticism of the DAVIDSONIAN is false and unfair, and, more important, to examine the role of constructive criticism, such as the DAVIDSONIAN has offered, in a democratic society.

The following is a complete list of the institutions or policies criticized editorially by the DAVIDSONIAN second semester and the corresponding constructive suggestions, which were offered with every criticism.

1. The Artist Series was criticized for lack of student interest and it was suggested that available funds be concentrated in fewer, more widely appealing programs.
2. Athletic Scholarships were criticized for being out of proportion with academic scholarships and it was suggested that some of the money be used for academic scholarships.
3. The Rush System was objectively examined and Sophomore Rush was recommended.
4. The present system of exams was criticized for failing to achieve unity and a detailed outline was given for a change to comprehensive examinations.
5. The new IFC rules were praised but Greek Week was criticized and it was suggested that fraternities do more worthwhile projects and help in “improving the value of a Davidson education.”
6. The IMAC ruling on inactives in fraternity sports was criticized and a strong independent team was advocated to strengthen the whole league.
7. The Board of Trustees was asked “to appoint a committee, including students and faculty members, for the purpose of discussing...” the decision not to admit Negroes.

This seems to be a mature, carefully thought out set of positive recommendations sincerely aimed at making Davidson a better college. There is, however, a more fundamental issue behind the controversy being treated here. It is the role of criticism in a liberal arts college. Many people seem opposed to almost any constructive criticism. But is not criticism a first step in improvement and progress? Is not one of the aims of a liberal education to increase a man’s critical faculties? It seems to me that the critical attitude is one of the cornerstones of science. Our democratic form of government and our Protestant church both arose from criticism of the existing order. I think one of the major objections is the form it takes. I feel that much that has been said this year has been taken too personally and too negatively where it was not meant to be either. When Dave Warden says Davidson is sick, he wants to call the doctor, not the undertaker as even Dr. Richards seemed to think.

The interest in campus affairs this year has been unusually great. A part of the student body has stopped being complacent and lethargic and has taken an active interest in campus issues. This development should be encouraging to all of us. I hope students and administration will continue to examine Davidson College and continue to work to make it a still better school. As fine a college as we now may be, with new scholarships, increased faculty salaries, a new lecture series, and increased student interest, we can still grow. I hope the critical attitude shown this year will continue to serve as a stimulus to that growth.

Pete Kellogg
Session Member

Dear Editor:

The Session of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church has been severely criticized for not authorizing the use of the church for the discussions between members of the Westminster Fellowship and students from Johnson C. Smith University. As a member of the Session who greatly regretted the Session’s decision in the matter, I should like to say that I consider this criticism unjust both in imputing unworthy motives to the majority and in assuming that the decision was made with unanimity. The Session considered the matter quite fully, discussed it at great length, and tried to make the right decision. Although there were strongly contrasting opinions so equally divided that the decision was made by only one vote, there was no hard feeling. Fear did not enter the decision at all. The decision was made as it was because the majority (with whom I disagreed) felt that such a meeting would have undue publicity and would be ill-advised on account of the strong racial feeling in the matter. The majority of the Session felt that such a discussion would not serve a useful purpose but might instead be construed as a publicity stunt. In writing this, I do so as an individual and not as a spokesman. In loyalty to my comrades in the Session, I ask that my name not be published.

An Elder of the College Presbyterian Church

(Editor’s Note: It is generally not the policy of this paper to publish anonymous letters. However, the writer is not a student and has identified himself. He has consented to have his name revealed if it is requested.)

HAPPINESS IS THIRTY-FIVE CENTS FOR PEA AND NICKEL FOR A CANDY BAR!