Che Davidsonian. THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1960 (All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

The Value Of Entertainment

We read the other day that the Dave Brubeck jazz group has been banned from appearance on many Southern colleges and universities by the Southern Association of Student Councils. The reason? One member of the group was colored. The ban came on the heels of declarations by directors of public auditoriums that the mixed group could not appear in their halls. The two actions should be questioned. Both deal with the same implications, and both have the same effect.

We do not mean to dwell on the moral, intellectual and ethical facets of the problem. We are surprised, however, that these two agencies could have such little regard for a demanding (and paying) public. The Brubeck group is truly one of the great jazz ensembles in the nation. It is almost a crime to deny students the privilege of hearing one of his concerts. We feel that this is a question of discrimination, not so much against Brubeck, who can undoubtedly weather the cancellations in the Southern tour, but against students of Southern campuses. If this sort of thing should become a precedent, what of the entertainment standards of the South? The ranks of big bands, jazz groups, and small combos would be sadly depleted if mixed groups were mysteriously to disappear. Carrying it to the extreme, we would no longer hear or watch such groups as Duke Ellington, Count Basie, Mahalia Jackson, or Louis Armstrong. Gone would be Don Shirley, Ella Fitzgerald, Sarah Vaughn, Dakota Staton, and Cab Calloway.

Let’s face it. No one is being hurt but the South herself. For the sake of entertainment standards of the South, we hope that this action is not repeated.

And The Rains Came......?

As we looked out of the window Wednesday night while putting the DAVIDSONIAN to press, we noticed that the skies were shedding more than their usual amount of water on the Davidson campus. The explanation for this increased precipitation was readily apparent to those of us who are seniors. It was the Wednesday before Midwinters and of course, it always rains hardest during this time of the school year. There was one exception to this statement, however. Two years ago there was some sort of a cosmic foul up and instead of the usual rain, there fell six inches of snow. But this year for Midwinters it appears that the normal will occur and the rains will come.

Despite the fact that the students realize that the campus is doomed to be somewhat submerged during this week, the administration, even though they have been here much longer than the students, seem oblivious to this fact. We suppose this is the reason that they chose this week to fill the gulch in front of the KA, Beta, and Sigma Chi houses with the remains of Shearer Hall and other variously secured tons of dirt. Wednesday's rains turned “operation fillup” to “operation mudhole”. Early in the afternoon several trucks had already been stuck in their own dumpings. But worst of all, mud from the tires of the dump trucks and fallout from the piles of debris on the tops of the vehicles left a portion of the court two inches deep in orange slime. And as the rain continued to fall and the trucks continued to roll, little hope appeared in sight. It looks as if traffic will have to avoid the bogged part of the court during the coming weekend. That is, unless some student with a date in the car, desires to become “accidentally” hopelessly mired in the mud. This done, of course, so he will have to spend all night in his car with his girl until he can be “rescued” in the morning.—J.H.

A Great Loss

Ted Cumming’s death was as tragic as it was untimely. He was a brilliant young scholar, twenty-six years old. He was a Fulbright scholar, a Rotary scholar, a member of Phi Beta Kappa. His Harvard degree was Magna Cum Laude. He resigned a teaching position at Converse College last September, seeking seclusion to write a novel. Ironically enough, his little mountain cottage fit his requirements so perfectly that it had no telephone. Precious minutes were lost while his wife drove to a friend’s home to call for help. It was too late.

Words are inadequate in a tragedy. The DAVIDSONIAN, however, on behalf of all members of the college, would like to send its deepest regrets and understanding to the Cumming family. We wish we could have known him.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editor
Jim Hamilton
Managing Editors
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore
Sports Editor
B. Millner
Feature Editor
Tom Colvin

Assignments Editor
David Jordan
Copy Editor
Russ Showalter
Cartoonists
Redding Ackerman
Advertising Manager
Charlie Rowe
Circulation Mgr.
Albert McClure, Jr.
Ass’t. Business Manager
Greg Grane

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

“WE DO NOT WANT TO LEAVE...”

Hocsaks, Freedom Fighters, Leave Davidson Today

“We do not want to leave, really. We leave in body—we leave physically—but we are always here in spirit.” Amid the goodbyes of a few student friends, with belongings piled high on a borrowed truck, Ivstan Hocsak and his family moved away today. They were headed for a new home in Charlotte—a larger house, closer to his work.

Two nights ago, we visited them.

DAVIDSON LIFE

“We make many friends,” Hocsak said of his life in Davidson. “I go to the Union and talk with the boys and they are interested. I meet so many, but I really get to know only a few. Now many who were here when we came are graduated... But we like here; we will miss the college, the intellectual level, the people here.”

COMMUNISM

We asked the Hocsaks about life in Hungary under Communism. “You cannot imagine,” he said. “I did not know the freedom here until I learned English to read the newspapers.

CRITICIZE

“You can call the President dumb, yes? In Hungary if you criticize, if you don't like a candidate, if you hate Communism, you are asking to be kicked out of the university. You get kicked out. You may not be killed, but you get your reward.

“It was so terrible,” Rosa said. “We know a Hungarian boy in Charlotte—he is one of our friends—who was in prison nine years awaiting trial. He was accused of killing Jews; it was not true. When he was tried just before the Revolution, they could find no evidence. They said, ‘We are sorry,’ and let him go. After nine years, he was so bitter. He missed his education. Now he is almost thirty.”

NEW CITIZENS

But in a year and ten months they will be American citizens—Steve, Rosa, Mrs. Hocsak, and five-year-old Chippie. “Then we will be no longer the tourists,” Steve said. “I can be licensed as a professional engineer.” Steve looks forward to this. An electrical designer for the J. N. Pease Company in Charlotte, he has advanced from a position as junior draftsman to designer in less than three years.

We talked for a long time—almost ‘til midnight—over coffee. Too soon, the time came to leave. “Some of the boys are coming tomorrow night to see us,” he said. “You will come?” We promised that we would. We didn’t know how to say good-bye.

STEVE'S LETTER

Letter to the Student Body:

Three years ago right after Christmas when a little Hungarian family arrived at Davidson—The Hocsaks—an enthusiastic group of the students, the YMCA organization and the student council together with the faculty, put their hands on our future and helped our first baby steps in this for us unknown and strange country.

How to put studs on a stiff-starched tux shirt...

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

Students Blast Validity Of Poll, IMAC Ruling, Expulsion Attitude

Dear Editor:

The poll taken of the student body on Tuesday concerning the issue of integration at Davidson was an example of the type of poll which could lead to conclusions that might be not only misleading and unreliable but also erroneous. This poll was conducted under the most unscientific conditions imaginable. First, the four choices which were offered by the poll were not adequately explained. Consequently, students were not able to fully comprehend the meaning of the various choices for which they might cast their ballot. Secondly, there were no precautions taken to ensure that each student voted once and only once. This in itself would cast doubt on the validity of any scientifically conducted poll, no matter the outcome. I question in the third place that those present and voting (legitimately) would be a fair representation of the total opinion of the students because there was no guarantee of a random sampling of the population. Further, as everyone is well aware, chapel is not the most conducive place for the expression of a true opinion. The student body takes this time to manifest their childish instincts ina beautiful display of temporary regression. In addition, there was no adequate control of the influence of other students on the voter at the time of voting. This is always done in a scientific study of public opinion. In light of the unscientific nature of the poll, I hope that the poll will be rerun under valid conditions. The outcome of such a poll would be a valid representation of the students' opinion to present to the Board of Trustees as this can never be regardless of the outcome. Charles Ringe.

Dear Editor:

In the past few weeks a matter having no precedent in the history of Davidson College has arisen. A group of fraternity men decided to de-brother their fraternities. It is my understanding that for the most part their motives were to protest against the fraternity system. One of their main goals was to give the independents some strength and spirit, which would create a challenge to the fraternity system and improve not only the independent group but necessitate the improvement of fraternity standards. A large amount of this support would be directed to the independent athletic teams.

Seeing that this would provide a strong challenge to their fraternities and wishing to keep the independents as weak as possible, several fraternity members protested this action in the Intramural Athletic Council. During the ensuing discussion, it became apparent that the protesting ones wished to take away from the ex-fraternity men all privileges for participation in Intramural Athletics. This was a concerted effort to chastise the rebellious element in the fraternity system.

Their main arguing point was a technicality in the national rules of the respective fraternities, stipulating that once a man becomes a brother his name will always remain on the books, unless he is expelled. Having passed the bill to prohibit the participation of this ex-fraternity group, the Council made a pseudo-concession — these men may go back and play for their respective fraternities. What sort of concession is this? First, the fraternity is not apt to ask these men to play because they have turned their backs on the group. Second, this defeats the purpose of these men and causes them to bow down to the fraternity will if they try to play, which they don’t want to do.

Look at the implications of this Constitutional amendment. Not only does it take away the eligibility privileges of the present group, but it ties the hands of any future students who find it inconvenient to remain with their fraternities. Is this fair?

John Ricks

Dear Editor:

I was pleased to hear in chapel last Friday morning of the present deliberations by the Student Council and Honor Court. As I understand their statement, they are in favor of liberalizing the heretofore “unwritten rule” which does not allow a person guilty of an honor offense to be readmitted to Davidson after his expulsion. The suggested period of purification is two years. I was not pleased, however, by the comment of one of the deliberators who said in essence: We made it two years so they wouldn't come back. This period of time is not the basic problem, but the attitude shown here is important. There seem to be two more basic problems, and I shall leave the comment of the deliberator open to speculation.

The first problem deals with expulsion itself. Does anyone have the right to expel anyone else because of dishonesty? An honor code which is obeyed with the awareness that expulsion is the penalty for disobedience is nothing but a prudential course of conduct. An honor code must be obeyed because the student wants to be honest with himself and does not want to take unfair advantage of his classmates and his college. The code is, or should be, enough. Expulsion is another arm of multi-limbed, paternalistic, Davidson.

The second problem concerns the Christian college which would forgive an erring student but would not forgive an applicant to the college because of his birth. We need liberalization in other areas in addition to readmission.

Dan Clemmer.

The time passed by fast since then! We became acquainted with this mysterious language; we became accustomed to this special form of life.

FRIENDSHIPS

After 3 years looking back, my memory recalls the friendships of many students with whom I was acquainted. Many students already left the Alma Mater since and new students came year by year into the college. Of course, I couldn't hold the acquaintance with the same intensity as in the first year, but to my pleasant surprise, I always had a “Hey, Steve, how are you?” on the campus sometime by students unknown to me.

LEAVING

I wrote this letter because I'm leaving Davidson and moving to Charlotte, as my work ties to the city. In a few words, I'd like to tell all of you what I got from the college. First of all, I got new hope for the future, seeing the love and the understanding toward us, who lost everything; home, friends, country, language, and an optimistic look at life. I had many other things which made life more enjoyable and let us forget our hard memories.

HARD MEMORIES

I got financial help from the college until I found work and I could manage our life myself. Now I've taken successfully the first examination of professional engineering and I'm taking the final exam in May. I have my own car, I bought a house, I'm teaching mechanics and mathematics in English as a tutor.

“HAPPY, CONTENT”

I am a happy, content man, optimistic for the future. I'd like to direct my life to contribute to the enriching of this great country through my modest ability. Thank you professors, students for the help which meant so much to me and for you was only a wonderful Christmas thought.

‘Steve’ Hocsak

Davidson's ‘Herd’: An Examination

By PETER STERLING

One of the greatest tragedies of contemporary society is that loneliness is equated with being alone. It seems that as soon as one is left to his own resources he is incapable of genuine enjoyment unless there is TV, a car, movies, or the herd. If a liberal-arts education teaches anything, it should help develop the individual so that he can be alone and contented.

At all levels of activity, groups play a dominant role in American life; textbooks are written by study groups, research is conducted by teams, business is operated by management teams, politics is dominated by pressure groups, and religion is equated with church affiliation. Men have always been “joiners” to a certain degree. Groups, as Hobbes and Hegel indicated, are necessary for social progress. Perhaps, as Rousseau and Locke would agree, the general will is the greatest contribution to man’s well-being. It is only through groups acting conjunctively that man can make orderly progress.

The greatest problem is not the existence of groups per se because they are indispensable. The problem lies with man’s indiscriminate choice of groups. For either social or psychological reasons, the individual feels that he must belong to many varied groups, whether they be “The Book of The Month Club” or the Democratic Party. Groups are categorized and classified. For example, ADA is liberal; DAR is reactionary; the Communist Party is subversive. Often one belongs to one or more groups which are diametrically opposed to one another, causing internal conflict.

Yet, the greatest indictment against the herd instinct is its leveling effects. Individual spontaneity, creativity, and abstract contemplation often have succumbed to, and been supplanted by, regimented planned ideals. Individual goals become those of the state, the organization, and the group, and the word “education” often has been prostituted to mean “indoctrination.” Loyalty and devotion to the organization have become more vital than individual aims and aspirations. Democracy, the synthesis of group decisions, can only survive through individual liberty of thought and action. In the final analysis, the nation’s degree of education, not the number of thermo-nuclear bombs and missiles, is the United States’ greatest resource.

Davidson College is doing a great disservice to itself, and to society in general, by the degree of conformity that it demands. It is in the formative years of a man’s life that he should build individual goals and personal convictions. As long as the man who thinks differently or acts independently is condemned as “odd,” one cannot say that Davidson men are receiving a liberal education. The students themselves desire, yea demand, group affiliation. This may stem from the fact that freshmen are never given a real alternative to group membership. The classification and compartmentalization of the student body at Davidson is one of the major reasons for the lack of communication of ideas and concepts. It may be contended that most Davidson men are afraid to be alone; however, more pathetic, they are afraid to stand up to be counted for something they believe is right for fear of group ostracism.