PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1960

Dave Alabran, president of the Methodist Youth Fellowship, announced earlier this week that the group has not, as yet, formulated
any definite plans for special activities. He did, however, express a desire to meet with MYF groups from other nearby
campuses for weekend fellowships. Alabran stated that the Davidson group intends to get together with MYF groups from other schools
like Catawba, Queens, for discussion and fellowship, and to exchange ideas. MYF meets every Friday at 5:30 p.m. at the
Methodist Church on Main St. for supper and an informal, discussion-type program. Programs will include movies and discussions with several
of the professors. One of the outstanding programs of the year, so far, was the showing of the film “From
Here to Eternity,” followed by a discussion with Dr. P. F. Elliot and Dr. M. E. Polley. The Fellowship has
scheduled a movie, “Harvey,” for next week’s meeting also. Alabran said that much of the credit for organization of the
Davidson MYF goes to the Rev. Mr. Russell Montfort of the Methodist Church in Davidson. Montfort actively engages in planning
and activities. Members of various faiths, including some of the foreign students, attend the meetings. Alabran stated that MYF is
not an evangelistic organization, rather the purpose is to provide fellowship and to stimulate thought on contemporary issues. Alabran emphasized
that all students are welcome. The officers for this year’s group are: Dave Alabran, President; Tom Covington, Vice-President; and Dudley
Salley, Secretary-Treasurer. These officers were elected last spring, and will serve for the 1960-61 term.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bryan
Mebane
Sailstad
Calhoun
Pinkerton
Thies
Fulcher
Polley
Thompson
Galfent
Reid
Tyson
Hampton
Richey
West
McGill

Sailstad Unveils Test Model Of Arts Building Theater

Mr. Robert J. Sailstad, assistant to the president, unveiled a model of the theater of the new John R. Cunningham
Music and Fine Arts Building this past Wednesday during chapel period. The model will be used by the architect to
test ideas and to help solve production problems of the new hall.

MOVABLE CURTAINS

The hall will have movable curtains at both ends so that acoustics may be varied. Indirect lighting over the seats
will be provided by inverted pyramid-shaped lights hanging from the ceiling. The most unique feature of the auditorium will be
its unconventional stage set-up. The stage, occupying all of one end of the auditorium, will be one between heaven and
earth. The Vagabonds will represent heaven by a platform, and they hope to capture the circus tent atmosphere through which
MacLeish represented earth by staging “J.B.” in Chambers’ dome. “The dome will be draped to look very much like a
circus tent,” Epes commented.

Nevertheless, we do like love affairs, but I've found that most of us will take life very seriously. Whenever an
American boy goes to Argentina, if he wants a “blind date” he has to double-date. The other guy is responsible
for the American boy’s behavior — unless the girl wants to take care of herself, which sometimes occurs. I know
this for sure because I'm related in a certain way to most of the American boys and girls that come
to Cordoba, my hometown. I'm a square dance instructor in our city, and it is strange how they happen to
drop in on our practices and rehearsals and like them. That is an easy way to get a date because
he can take a look at the dozens of girls there and pick up the nicest one. That is, if
she hasn’t gotten an owner for the night! Our dates, most of the time, consist of going to the movies
or the theater, listening to a concert—or just dancing.

Kills “Latin Lover”

Editor's Note: This is the fifth in a series of articles written by the Richardson Scholars on customs and characteristics
of their homelands, or on their impressions of Davidson.

By BERT KAMM
Richardson Scholar

I have heard that Latin Americans seem to be more passionate than people from other places. This is not true,
for we find shy boys and cold girls everywhere. I haven't dated very much since I came up here because
money is not always available in one’s pocket. That must be one of the reasons why foreign students date so
little here. Anyway, I do like your girls and I do like to dance, so why don’t I have a
date for Homecoming?

Exam Date Set For Graduate Records

The Graduate Record Examinations will be given November 19, to seniors desiring to be reminded that most graduate schools require
that the GRE be taken by students before they may be considered for admission. Applications, which may be obtained in
Dr. Abernethy’s office, must be filled out and returned by a platform, and they hope to recapture the circus tent
atmosphere through which MacLeish represented earth by staging “J.B.” in Chambers’ dome. “The dome will be draped to look very
much like a circus tent,” Epes commented.

We also have very beautiful landscapes all over the country, but I doubt that a boy will be allowed to
go there on his “blind date,” for “the baby has to be in at 7.”

By GEORGE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“I love it here,” said Mrs. Davis, one of the new fraternity housemothers who has come to Davidson this year.
This reply is typical of the three new housemothers, Mrs. H. F. Davis, Mrs. Elizabeth Wright, and Mrs. A. R.
Edwards, who have come to live on the Davidson campus.

Mrs. Davis, the new housemother for Sigma Nu, formerly lived in Charlotte, where she graduated from Queens College. Although Mrs.
Davis has no relatives in Sigma Nu, she says that this has not been detrimental to learning about the fraternity
or enjoying the boys in it. When asked about her hobbies, Mrs. Davis replied, “I love to play bridge,” but
bridge is not her only hobby. Mrs. Davis also enjoys yard work and gardening, and when she does cook, she
likes to try out a cottage cheese salad.

Mrs. Elizabeth Wright, who is living at the Phi Delta Theta house, has lived in many places, including Arlington, Virginia,
and the University of Maryland. While at the University of Maryland Mrs. Wright was the housemother for the Sigma Chi's.
Commenting on the boys at the university as compared with Davidson students, Mrs. Wright said, “I like Davidson because the
quality of the boys here is so much greater than that of the boys at state university.” Mrs. Wright has
several hobbies, including that very common one, bridge. Her most important hobby, though, is antique collecting and furniture refinishing.

Mrs. A. R. Edwards, from Charlotte, who is living at the Sigma Phi Epsilon house. Although Mrs. Edwards has no
relatives who are Sig Eps, and has not had any previous experience as a housemother, she does not feel that
this has handicapped her in any way.any way. One of Mrs. Edwards' favorite hobbies is playing bridge, and I have
found her to be very friendly. Although she has no relatives here, she enjoys doing volunteer hospital work. Another new
housemother, Mrs. Elizabeth Wright of Phi Delta Theta, is a former resident of Dunn, North Carolina, although she has lived
elsewhere. She sums up, "Accumulating fifty boys has been most gratifying and I enjoy being here as a housemother very
much."

Dr. Sherrard Rice Conducts Vespers

Speaking at the regular vespers service in the College Church Sunday night will be Dr. J. Sherrard Rice. As a
conclusion of the separate services in Chambers Auditorium, the freshmen will hear the Rev. William R. Clein. Dr. Rice graduated
from Davidson in 1939. After remaining here as Secretary of the Y.M.C.A. for a year, he went to Princeton Seminary.
Dr. Rice served as a Navy Chaplain during the war, after which he taught at Union Seminary in Richmond, Va.
Since teaching, he has served churches in W. Va. and Texas. Upon his graduation from Davidson in 1951, Rev. William
R. Clein went to Union Seminary in Richmond. In addition to his duties as minister of the Oakland Ave. Presbyterian
Church in Rock Hill, S.C., Rev. Clein holds the position of Chaplain to the Presbyterian students at Winthrop College, in
Rock Hill.

The Vagabonds will probably present at least eight more plays including “J.B.,” “Medea,” and “The Matchmaker.” At each of the
future plays, there will be reserved seats by subscription. The Vagabonds announced this week that persons interested in subscriptions can
call the desk at the Student Union. Subscriptions will be $2.00 for students, $3.00 for single patrons, and $5.00 for
couples.

That's what the father usually says, but the mother is proud her child is going out with a student from
abroad and complains about it to her husband. So when they finish discussing about the time to come back home,
the couple has certainly left and comes back at any time.

We have a good custom that our girls think according to the “American Way of Payment,” which means they pay
for themselves when dating. That is an advantage. Sometimes they also pay for foreign students.

One of the largest stages existing for an auditorium of this size will have a giant curtain in front, completely
blocking out that end of the hall. Both the small top and the main bottom parts can be drawn completely
back into the wall recesses to utilize the entire width and height of the stage. Separated by sliding wooden panels
from the stage will be a large classroom for rehearsing while the auditorium is being used. The rehearsals in this
room will take place on the unusual stage wagon. The idea of having a stage wagon was brought to the
attention of the planners by Ervin Duggan, who referred them to the only one presently in existence, at Wellesley College
in Massachusetts. This ingenious “stage on wheels” will have its own complete lighting system and will be movable to provide
great flexibility in sets. When being used, the curtains will be set in such a fashion so as to make
the wagon stage a part of the main stage.

Subscriptions for Vagabonds performances are available at the Student Union Desk. Subscriptions are $2.00 for Davidson students, $3.00 for single
patrons, and $5.00 for couples.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING PIZZA and SPAGHETTI THE BEST

HUGHES MASTERS FELLOWSHIPS

The Hughes Masters Fellowship Program offers unusual opportunities for education leading to a master's degree and, in addition, provides each
fellow with practical experience in the professional field of his choice. Approximately fifty new awards will be made in 1961
to qualified applicants possessing a bachelor’s degree in science or engineering. A selected group of award winners will be offered
a FULL STUDY PROGRAM. Participants in this program will receive fellowships that permit them to attend an outstanding university on
a full-time basis during the regular academic year with a substantial stipend. Other award winners will be assigned to the
WORK STUDY PROGRAM and will attend a university sufficiently near a facility of the Hughes Aircraft Company to permit them
to obtain practical experience in a professional field of their choice by working at the company half-time. An appropriate stipend
will also be awarded. After completion of the Master's Program, fellows are eligible to apply for HUGHES DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS.

HOWARD HUGHES DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS

If you are interested in studies leading to a doctor's degree in physics or engineering, you are invited to apply
for one of the several new awards in 1961 in the Howard Hughes Doctoral Fellowship Program. This unique program offers
the doctoral candidate the optimum combination of high-level study at an outstanding institution plus practical industrial experience in the Hughes
laboratories. Each Howard Hughes Doctoral Fellowship provides approximately $8,000 annually. Of this amount, approximately $1,800 is for tuition, thesis and
research expenses, other academic fees, and books. The remaining amount is the award of a cash stipend and salary earned
by the fellow. Howard Hughes Doctoral Fellowships are open to outstanding students qualified for admission to graduate standing. A master's
degree or equivalent graduate work is essential before beginning the Fellowship Program.

For both programs, typical areas of research and development to which fellows may be assigned while working for Hughes include:
weapons control systems, infrared search and track systems, advanced propulsion systems, parametric amplifiers, masers, lasers, microwave tubes and devices, electron-tube
and solid-state displays, semiconductor materials, antenna arrays, aerospace vehicles, plasma electronics, solid state, atomic, nuclear and aerospace physics, propagation, mechanics
of structures, chemistry and metallurgy, systems analysis, human factors analysis, network analysis and synthesis, microminiaturization, communications, data processing, information theory,
and simulation. The classified nature of work at Hughes makes American citizenship and eligibility for security clearance a requirement. Closing
date for applications: January 15, 1961.

How to apply: To apply for either the Howard Hughes Doctoral Fellowships or the Hughes Masters Fellowships, write Dr. C.
N. Warfield, Educational Relations, Hughes Aircraft Company, Culver City, California.

Creating a new world with ELECTRONICS
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
