FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

A LOOK AT... SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

The Wrong Boat

AS FAR as we're concerned, Davidson’s Homecoming is tomorrow. Almost a month has passed since that day we saw the Wildcat ship go down — for the third time, we thought. And so it was reported: Humiliating Homecoming . . . Richmond 35, Davidson 6 . . . ’Cats Won't Win Another Game. Tonight we'd like to alter that report to say: Two Down And One To Go.

WHAT HAS happened at VPI and Lehigh will be forever etched on many Davidson minds as the most significant landmark of their college years. And, knowing the capacities of these minds, we can pay the ’Cats no small praise.

IT MUST be easy for the unbiased to tear apart two upsets and list the causes 1-2-3. For us it’s one big miracle, and not one of those freaks of nature that haunt the Bible Dept.

School Spirit At Best

THE TEAM was away both times, once in the heart of Yankeeland. The college, deprived of a first-hand viewing, responded vigorously on the team’s return each time. And now, on the eve of a third outing in which they are definite underdogs, the Wildcats are all keyed up to play for the homefolk.

“THIS, THEN, is the Davidson we want,” said Coach Bill Dole in his weekly memo to the Wildcat Club. Well put.

ON AT LEAST six occasions since the VPI upset, the college and the students have overwhelmingly endorsed the Wildcats for anything they might wish to be. Last night’s stimulating pep rally was no exception.

One To Grow On

PRESIDENT MARTIN, surprised last Friday with a combination 50th birthday party and Wildcat send-off, said his present would be complete should Davidson defeat Lehigh. It shouldn't be repeated, but the Wildcats have plans in the making for tomorrow to give Dr. Martin one game to grow on.

DURING THE VPI-game film showing last week, John Horton rose to make a proposal — that students might like to remember the football team with something “a little more tangible” than the cheers, which were nothing short of astounding. The more than 450 students gathered in the Morrison Room yelled their approval and shelled out coins enough to plate with gold the Davidson-VPI game football.

WE'D LIKE to suggest something even more “tangible.” Coach Dole says he needs six more football scholarships (or a total of 44) in order to bring his Wildcats in line with other Southern Conference teams. Please indicate your thoughts from the stands tomorrow afternoon.

Wildcat Of The Week: Starves Soccer Foes
By JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

In four years of varsity soccer at Davidson, Goalie Claude Finney has allowed only 56 goals, giving him a 1.4 goals-per-game average. For three consecutive years, Finney has been chosen All-South, receiving fifth in 1957, third in ’58, and fourth in ’59.

With ten of the eleven games of the season played, Finney has permitted only four field goals, two each to Carolina and Belmont Abbey. But the stocky senior who did four years apprenticeship in soccer at Christ School before coming to Davidson is hesitant about any personal honor. “We won because of great team effort,” he states modestly. “And Coach Marotte deserves a lot of credit.”

Teammates regard his tireless and outstanding efforts as the frequently-applied adhesion that mended the broken team spirit. Coach Paul Marotte equals him with all Davidson athletes in a single sport in as far as an overall four-year contribution is concerned. “Claude's play is not always recognized since he has a defensive job, but he has been the difference between winning and losing in all these seasons.”

CLAUDE FINNEY — All-South again this year? The stalwart defender of the ‘Cat nets is “Wildcat of the Week.”

Can Davidson Break Even? Same Song, Second Verse- ‘Cats Kick Lehigh, 21-18
By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s revived Wildcats continued their recent victory surge last Saturday by outlasting Lehigh, 21-18, on the Engineers’ home turf.

The margin of victory came via the accuracy of junior Bruce Usher's toe, which has now booted nine points—six for seven extra points and one field goal. In Bethlehem, the Wildcats proved that the VPI win was not a once-in-a-lifetime miracle, but a reality that could happen on any given Saturday. They also gained revenge for a 14-0 loss to these same Engineers here last season. Furthermore, “little” Davidson, underdog by seven-plus points, made fools out of the “experts” for the second straight week.

In the first quarter, Ed Murphy pounced on a Jerry Sheffield bobble on the Davidson 35. Six plays later, Charlie McAllister bulled over from the two. Usher kicked the first of three extra points, and we were ahead to stay.

Early in the second quarter, lineman Dave Lovette intercepted a pass at the Lehigh 39. Eight plays later, sophomore Bill Plunket plunged over from the one for his first college TD.

After a scoreless third period, Lehigh pushed across another TD when halfback Al Richmond scampered over from the two. Another try for two points failed.

At this point, sophomore halfback Alex Gibbs stepped in, returning Larko’s kickoff to the Davidson 38, from which point Davidson drove 62 yards in 13 plays for a third tally. Gibbs carried six times for 50 yards. At the three, Duncan Morton tossed to end Lou Zirkle in the end zone.

Lehigh stormed back for a quick and final marker. Wentz wiggled 68 yards through the Davidson defense to the two. The Engineers went for two extra points and failed — later to be a fatal mistake.

Aroused on the ensuing kickoff, the ‘Cats got the ball on their 27, and marched 73 yards in 16 plays for a TD. Quarterback Tee Redding directed the drive, highlighted by the running of fullback Bob McCoy, Wright and Peel as showing great potential during their freshman year.

Must Carry Load

The Davidson wrestling team opens its 1960-61 season against Pfeiffer Dec. 1, in Misenheimer. The varsity, dragging a 2-5-1 record from last year, has only four returning lettermen. The bulk of the load will fall on sophomores.

Davidson lettermen include junior Jim Alexander, 177-lb. weight class; senior Cliff Thompson, 167; and juniors Butch LeDoyer, 147, and Harry Brown, 157. Sophomores include Ben McCoy, 157; Ken Barger and Tom Wright, 123; Ed Peel, 130; Charlie Trask, 137; John Eggers, 167; and John Cameron, heavyweight.

“It all depends on the sophomores,” said Parker this week. Davidson last year defeated Wake Forest and Emory.

ALEX GIBBS — takes handoff from Tee Redding as ‘Cats scrimmage for Furman game here tomorrow. Gibbs, a sophomore, leads the team in rushing with 238 net yards. (Photo by Abernathy).

Kappa Alphas Nip SAE’s

The KA’s captured first I-F Swimmers suspended by Camera (Photo by Wells).

Alumni Game Tops Basketball Slate

Before the 1960-61 basketball season opens, two attractions will be held for students and alumni of Davidson. One — a game between Alumni and the Varsity — will be held Monday, the 28th, at 8 p.m. in the gym. The Varsity will engage a team composed of former Davidson basketball stars, including Buddy Cheek, Mike Williams, Hobby Cobb, Ed Waite, “Want” Comp, J.D. Ashmore, George Peters, John Belk as coach and many others.

Next Tuesday night at 7:30 in the gym, Coaches Driesell and Hunt and the basketball team will hold a clinic for interested persons. This is an attempt to introduce the team and the new style of play to the student body and the public.

Cross Country Team Seeks Third Place
By CARL RUST
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson cross country team hits the road Monday for the last time this season to compete in the Southern Conference Meet at William and Mary in Williamsburg, Va. They hope to capture third place. This position is expected to be a battle between the ‘Cats, Furman and VPI. West Virginia is favored to capture the conference championship from the defending champs, VMI, in what Coach Whittle calls “a royal battle.” VMI will be seeking revenge on West Virginia in the meet.says he doesn't “know about that.” The odds seem mighty good.

Six Seniors Complete Soccer Careers Today

Six seniors played for the last time in a Davidson uniform today as the soccer team closed out its successful season against VMI here. They are: Claude Finney—goalie, Henry Pharr—center fullback, Mike Laughlin—center forward, and halfbacks John Keiter, Dick Dalton, and Bob Wynn. The injured Dave Irvin is also a senior.

Fred Shoen scored three times yesterday as the Junior Varsity whipped South Carolina, 4-2, here.

WHICH WAY?

Coach Paul Marrotte said, “I was extremely proud of our team against State, except for the many scoring chances that were given away. State was handicapped by lack of depth and we took advantage of them. I am anxious to recognize Henry Pharr’s play. He’s been giving Davidson a sound defensive performance for four years.”

The match today determined whether Davidson topped its four previous season records. The pre-match mark was 7-3. The ’Cats grabbed their seventh win last Friday in Raleigh, defeating a stubborn N. C. State squad, 2-0. Laughlin broke loose for a first-quarter goal to put Davidson ahead to stay. John Strating gave them a last-quarter marker.

The Wildcats open Dec. 3, here with Wake Forest. Ironically, their toughest games come at the beginning—Clemson, VPI, and William and Mary, for example. Wake is rated 11th in the nation and VPI 15th.

Davidson held a scrimmage with High Point here Wednesday. The ‘Cats take on Lenoir-Rhyne in a practice game here next Friday.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

Harriers Scrap Meet

The conference meet will be the last meet for only one ‘Cat, Bill Eckbert. Junior David Gilmour is team captain.

In Intramural Swimming

By JOHN RICKS Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Phi Delts took first place in three events Wednesday, to nudge the SAE’s, 21-20, in Intramural swimming. Preliminary eliminations were held Monday night. The Phi Delts and Sigma Chis tied for third with 13 points apiece, followed by the SPE's, 11; Betas, 6; Kappa Sigs, 2; Independents and Phi Gams, 1; and Pi Kappa and Pikas, 0. The Sigma Nus and ATO’s did not participate.

Events, winners, and runners-up are as follows: 150-yd. medley, SAE, Sigma Chi; 75-yd. freestyle, Sharp (KA), Williamson (SPE); 50-yd. breaststroke, Hill (SPE), Wyrick (SAE); 50-yd. freestyle, Rohrer (SAE), Baker (Sigma Chi); 50-yd. backstroke, Weeks (KA), Hazel (Beta); 25-yd. freestyle, Kirkpatrick (Sigma Chi), Sharp (KA); 75-yd. Individual medley, Weeks (KA), Hazel (Beta); and 200-yd. relay, SAE, Phi Delt.

WRESTLING

In the wrestling finals last Friday night, teams placed in this order: SAE, Phi Gam, Beta, KA, Pika-Sigma Chi (tie), ATO-Pi Kapp (tie), Kappa Sig, Independent, SPE-Phi Delt (tie), and Sigma Nu.

Weight classes, winners, and runners-up are as follows: 123, Fowler (SAE), Rush (Phi Gam); 130, Lucas (SAE), Nemir (Phi Gam); 137, Van Doeren (Beta), Harrison (SAE); 147, Glasgow (Beta), Merritt (SAE); 157, Mills (Beta), Martin (Phi Gam); 167, McNairy (SAE), Jorgensen (Pi Kapp); 177, Brewer (SAE), Ricks (ind.); 191, Cloninger (Phi Delt).

’Cats Fight Furman In Last Game

By BILL GODWIN Davidsonian Sports Editor

Davidson, who hasn’t won a home game in two years, tries to put one over on Furman here tomorrow in what promises to be a head-on clash. Kick-off time is 2 p.m. It's the final game of the season for the Wildcats and a victory would give Davidson a 4-4 final record and a 2-2 mark in the conference.

Furman has other plans. With one other game remaining with Clemson, the Hurricane need a win to anchor a 4-3-1 record and to bring home their first winning season since 1953. Davidson has not beaten Furman since 1948, losing last year, 35-7, in Greenville.

The Wildcat Club, Davidson boosters, will hold their annual meeting here tomorrow. It’s also Scout Day and 1,000 Boy Scouts from the High Point area will fill a block of the East stands.

Opposing teams will display the cream of the Southern Conference crop, statistically. Davidson leads in total defense and passing defense and is third in rushing defense and rushing offense. Furman leads in rushing offense, is second in total offense, and third in passing offense.

Individually, the Hurricane offer quarterback Billy Canty, who directs their magnificent ground game, averaging 208.5 yards per game, and Tom Campbell, Furman’s “dead-leg” runner. Campbell leads the conference in rushing with 506 yards net gain.

For Davidson, the biggest surprise is sophomore halfback Alex Gibbs, who for five games could manage only 83 yards net gain. The past two weeks, Gibbs typified Davidson's dramatic comeback against VPI and Lehigh with totals of 83 and 72 yards, respectively.

Jerry Sheffield, junior halfback and recent Southern Conference “Player of the Week,” is second only to Gibbs in total yards rushing—200 to 238.

Captains for Davidson will be senior ends Jennings Snider and Danny House. The probable Wildcat line-up: House and Zirkle, ends; Lacy and Crute, tackles; Lovette and Holcomb, guards; Simpson, center; Redding, quarterback; Sheffield and Gibbs, halfbacks; and McAllister, fullback.

Seniors who will be playing their final game are House, Jennings Snider, Danny Lacy, Harold Bynum, and Ned Davis.

Got the good word about Greyhound Scenicruiser Service®? It's the latest, the greatest way to go... with air-conditioning, picture windows, air-suspension ride, and complete restroom! You'll have a ball heading home on a Greyhound—it’s often faster than other public transportation, and always less expensive!

COMPARE THESE LOW, LOW FARES: Dav. - Atl. $8.45 Rich. - Dav. $7.65

BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They arrive in hours and cost you less!

IT'S SUCH A COMFORT TO TAKE THE BUS...AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US! GREYHOUND