THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1960 PAGE FOUR

INTERVIEWS Faculty Voices

March 7—Newel Prono
After Vespers Open Houses

March 8—Blue Bell Ins. Co. of North America.

March 9—J. C. Penney Co.

The following professors will have open house for the student body after vespers Sunday night:
Dr. Ratliff
Bernard Jackson
Clark Logan
Davidson Maloney
Fredericksen
Goldiere
Hopkins
Martin
Newell
Puckett
Woods
McGavock
McLane
Workman

Four Johnson C. Smith College students will present a panel discussion of the recent Negro boycotts of segregated lunch counters
in Charlotte at the Westminster Fellowship next Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Student Lounge of the church. Miss Barbara
Ford, president of the Student Christian Association at the college, has arranged the program, in cooperation with Henry Shue, WF
vice president. The students will be coming as individuals, not as representatives of the SCA. However, Miss Ford indicated that
the program has created much interest at her school and a busload of other students will probably accompany the panel.
Shue will serve as the panel moderator.

DR. TOM DAGGY
Dr. Tom Daggy Is A Tychus Daggy!
By RAN SHAFFNER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Yes, there is a Daggy bug,” answered Dr. Tom Daggy in a quiet, reserved, and somewhat resigned tone. “It’s a
beetle.” One winter day eleven years ago, Dr. Daggy packaged his monthly sample of dead leaf mold, gathered from Egg
Rock Woods five miles east of Davidson, and sent it to Dr. Orlando Park of Northwestern University. Interested primarily in
the Psalaphidae family of beetles, Dr. Park berlesed the sample and in studying it discovered a new species: the Tychus
daggyi.

“The most interesting beetle I’ve worked on is the Laucana-scale.” This is the problem that will deal with. Ervin Duggan,
chairman of the Symposium Area for the Y, commented, “We became convinced this year that the traditional pattern of Winter
Services was no longer a real challenge to all the students. This is a frank effort to involve the entire
campus—not only that part of the student body which we usually call religious. The questions we'll be asking the speakers
will be questions which apply to every one of us.” Assisting in the symposium are John Denton, handling Union activities;
Bob James, in charge of publicity; Dick Hills, arranging transportation; and George Johnson, who will act as host.

Johnston Elected History Executive
Dr. Frontis Johnston, Dean of Faculty, was recently elected to a three-year term on the Executive Council of the Southern
Historical Association.

Concert For Next Thursday
The Contemporary Jazz Ensemble, a group presently touring some of the nation’s leading campuses, will make an appearance on the
Davidson campus on Thursday, March 10. This group recently achieved fame when NBC's new television series, “World Wide 60,” devoted
an entire hour program to the jazz ensemble. The ensemble has devoted a great deal of time to studying the
relationship of religion and jazz. Ed Summerlin, who leads the group, this past summer composed a jazz setting of the
Wesley Morning Orders of Prayer. This work has received serious attention by religious leaders and noted jazz musicians across the
country. In their concert here, the Contemporary Jazz Ensemble will present the religious jazz setting and a number of straight
jazz selections. The sponsoring organizations are presenting the concert to the public free of charge. At 4:00 p.m., March 10,
Dr. Charles Boyles, who is in charge of the ensemble’s tour, will give a brief address concerning the church and
the arts, after which the audience will break up into small groups to discuss religious jazz in particular. There will
be a member of the jazz band with each group. At 8:00 p.m. the jazz ensemble will give their concert
in Chambers Auditorium. Tom Colvin, who has organized this program, states, “This promises to be a very worthwhile program.”

The lone dissenter in regard to comprehensives was chemistry professor MacQueen. “I doubt the usefulness of comprehensive examinations,” he said,
“which are mainly re-exams on specific course material and I doubt the ability of undergraduates to cope with examinations which
are genuinely comprehensive.” MacQueen, however, thought that senior theses were a good idea. “The uniting of a senior paper could
be a project quite valuable to the student,” he said.

Ringe Announces Camp Counselors
Charles Ringe, Freshman Camp student director, announced today that the necessary number of students have been appointed as counselors for
the YMCA-sponsored camp to be held prior to orientation next fall. The following students have accepted positions as leaders of
the freshman groups: Jerry Bussell, Charles Cornwell, Ervin Duggan, Henry Shue, George Gabel, Ben Sparks, Bill Deane, Wesley Weeks, Tom

Uniquely distinguished by setae on all six legs and one peculiarly long coiled hair on each tibia, the daggyi has
a yellow-orange body, measuring one and one-half millimeters in length and six-tenths millimeters wide. Its vestigial eyes and tactile hairs
indicate subterranean life. “I’ll show you one,” added Dr. Daggy. And placing number 31320 of his collection under the microscope,
he continued, “This is of the coleoptera order and helps keep the soil fertilized. It breaks down leaf mold.” As
I studied the colorful bug, I asked, “How does it feel to have a bug named after you?” Dr. Daggy
hesitated, then answered, “It leaves one without any particular feeling. Of course, after that one, I went out and found
some more. There is no monetary value in them, just trading value. And,” he mused, “it’s interesting to have an
insect named after you.”

My attention shifted to the many bottles in the lab, and Dr. Daggy explained, “It’s hard preserving these insects. The
alcohol evaporates and I lose them. And the dried insects in the boxes are attacked by beetles that get in
and eat them up. The school’s going to build a set of shelves for me to keep them in.” Since
his first collection of butterflies in his youth, Dr. Daggy has collected innumerable orders of insects. In the past year
he has mounted some two thousand, consisting mainly of flies. “Every once in a while I start a new order
I don’t know anything about to increase my knowledge in that field. I plan to spend a whole summer on
fruit flies. There’s no chance of getting bored in this profession,” inserted Daggy. “You can look for insects any time
of the year. If an entomologist runs out of gas somewhere, he automatically looks for insects and time goes by
quickly.”sighed nineteenth-century French Romantic painter, entitled “Delacroix and Romanticism.” Dr. Sloane, who has held the chairmanship of the Art Department
at Bryn Mawr College and has been a member of the faculties of Princeton and Rutgers universities, is currently chairman
of the Department of Art and Director of the Ackland Museum at the University of North Carolina.

Past president of the College Art Association, Dr. Sloane is brought to Davidson at the suggestion of Professor Douglas Houchens
of the Fine Arts Department, who heard Dr. Sloane speak at the 1959 South East Artists’ Convention in Athens, Georgia.
An authority on Romanticism and nineteenth-century art, Dr. Sloane is author of several books, the latest being his authoritative French
Painting Between Past and Present (1848-1870) which is published by Princeton University.

Historical Association. The appointment came at the association’s winter meeting in Atlanta, Georgia. The Executive Council is composed of nine
prominent southern historians. Dr. Johnston will serve with this group until November of 1962. In the past month, Dr. Johnston
was also appointed to serve on the Confederate Centennial Commission by Governor Luther Hodges. In addition, he has been elected
to the Executive Council of the National Collegiate Athletic Association.

Jason McManus Merits Publication

Jason McManus, ’56, has been selected as one of six young writers to be represented in a collection of short
stories to be published next fall in England. One of McManus's stories is a revision of the “Fairy Queen” which
won the Vereen Bell prize in 1956. While at Davidson, McManus was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Beta
Kappa, and was president of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He is now a contributing editor for TIME magazine.

Several students selected as counselors have not yet turned in their decisions. Dr. Staples has been appointed faculty advisor. Ringe
is to be the student director, and Frank Mansell will serve as business manager. The site of the camp has
not been selected.

Armstrong told me a couple of weeks ago that ‘Jazz and religion belong together.’ And besides religious jazz, there will
be a lot of good straight jazz.” Sponsors of the program are:

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN Charlotte, N. C. 1318 W. Morehead

for room registration. “Those registering first will be those who answer telephones, who have physical disabilities and who want to
retain their old rooms. “After this, a rising senior will come into my office, draw a number and sign a
list indicating which number he drew. And that night both he and his roommate-to-be will sign up for the room
they want in the order in which they drew. Then the rising juniors and sophomores will likewise register, shortly before
the Spring Vacation. “Oh, yes, another thing, all boys will room in the dorms next year except married students, those
working for their rent and those who commute. “Choose your roommates. You can’t get a room, except a single one,
of course, unless you have a roommate. “If you are interested in being a hall counselor, see me as I've
already received applications for those positions. “The Bursar’s Office will soon send out a letter explaining all of this and
telling you to make the annual advance tuition deposit.”

ARCHIE’S GULF SERVICE 24-Hour Wrecker Service Lubrication $1.00 All Brands of Motor Oil

moderator. The Johnson C. Smith students will be: Jack Bailey, chairman of the World Affairs Committee of the SCA and
in charge of monitors for the dormitories; Mary Roberts, a sorority president; Kenneth Washington, vice-president of the SCA; and Naomi
Tyus, president of the Dramatic Guild.

OPEN TO ALL

“The program is not solely for those students who are in sympathy with the boycott,” Shue stated, “but it is
open to anyone seriously interested in the matter.” Shue expects the panel to discuss such topics as the theory behind
the boycotts, what results have been achieved, what they hope to achieve, if they think Christian students should support the
boycott, and is it the best way by which to reach their goal.

SUNDAY PROGRAM

This Sunday, the WF is having a lunch and discussion at Erwin Lodge on the subject “The Challenge of the
Christian Ministry.” Two former Davidson students, Sonny Ferguson and Cortez Cooper, now students at Columbia Theological Seminary, will conduct the
program.

Kannapolis’ Leading Theatres

GEM Today and Saturday “HAPPY ANNIVERSARY” David Niven, Mitzi Gaynor Starts Sat. Nite 8:40 “THE ROOKIE” with TOMMY NOONAN

SWANEE Today and Saturday “HOT ROD GANG” —Also— “HIGH SCHOOL HELLCATS” Starts Sat. Late Show “GIDGET” Starring SANDRA DEE in
color

Two art exhibits on the Festival theme of Romanticism will begin March 7, one in the College Union Ballroom and
another in the foyer of Chambers Building.

In regard to his 40,000 pinned insects, Dr. Daggy indicated his particular interest in beetles. “Ever since I was twelve,”
he reminisced, “I’ve been interested in wildlife or nature. There was a book in our public library that enabled me
to identify beetles better than any other group, so I worked on beetles.” “I got tired driving once up in
Minnesota and got out to hunt for insects. I assured the State trooper who drove up that nothing was wrong,
but he went away with some reluctance. He was sure something was wrong.”

Dr. Daggy received his degree in Zoology at Northwestern, writing his thesis on beetles. “I’ve found that if you say
you’re working on mosquitoes whether you are or not, everybody wants to help you. But beetles leave ‘em pretty cold.”

In a Madras jacket, tailoring makes the difference, and ours are tailored with the same workmanship you find in your
better suits. That's why they look better and they fit better.

RUSH WILSON Ltd.

The other day our vice president in charge of good news announced that someone, somewhere, enjoys Coca-Cola 58 million times
a day. You can look at this 2 ways: Either we've got an incredibly thirsty individual on our hands. Or
Coca-Cola is the best-loved sparkling drink in the world. We lean to the latter interpretation.

BE REALLY REFRESHED

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, N. C.
