FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1960

Outler Gives Insights On College Students

By TOM COLVIN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Dr. Albert Outler, the second speaker in this year's Otts Lecture series, presented his insights into the present student generation
in a special DAVIDSONIAN interview Tuesday. The noted theologian responded enthusiastically to the questions set forth during the interview.

When asked to characterize the religious atmosphere among college students today, Dr. Outler pointed out that the atmosphere varies from
campus to campus. "I think the principal characteristic of this generation is its awareness or semi-awareness of the magnitude of
the crisis of our times and of the complexity of social change. Most students know that the world is riding
along just a few feet from the edge of disaster. They may not think much about this, but they know
this is the situation."

"But speaking generally," he said, "it has now been taken for granted that religion belongs somewhere or other in our
serious considerations. We are past the time when there were bright boys who said only emotional cripples turn to religion.
The college student knows there is something in religion which he should understand. He wants religion to be intellectually respectable
and morally relevant, and he wants to know where he fits into it."

Dr. Outler pointed out that the question is no longer whether religion is necessary. "Ten years ago," he said, pulling
from his own experience, "I had to argue for religion. Five years ago, I found many students who had latched
onto religious panaceas. The peddlers of panaceas aren't as prominent now as they were. We've settled down to find out
what the score really is."

In response to a question about the student attitude toward intellectual inquiry, Outler said that there are colleges and universities,
usually ivy league, he noted, where there is a great deal of "intellectual excitement, thrust and pressure." Yet, there are
other schools where the students are motivated by the desire to get "the requisite facade for their subsequent life in
business."

He said, "The worst thing I see around is the substitution of competition for grades in place of the thrust
of intellectual curiosity and inquiry." He noted the pressures of college and graduate school admission as being among the factors
behind the problem.

Another question put before Dr. Outler was, what are the special characteristics of this student generation? "Since then, for various
reasons, the average college student has already made his break from the domination of parents and family ties before he
comes to college. By the time he gets to college, what he wants is to find some alternative security. He
wants to find ways to fit in and belong. College isn’t as exciting a place now since it is not
now a place of adolescent revolt."

Dr. Outler said that the great challenge facing students today is "how to live meaningfully and productively in a world
that may blow up anytime. The main thing is to understand himself, understand the world, understand God and His expectations
of us and to contribute something to the neighbor and to the human heritage."

Gordon To Speak At Vesper Service

Dr. Ernest Gordon, Dean of the Chapel at Princeton University, will be the speaker at Vespers in the Davidson College
Church this Sunday, December 4. Dr. Gordon was the speaker at the Chapel at Princeton University.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Bernard Hopkins
Meetze
Clark
Goldiere
Pietenpol
Daniel
Hummel
Puckett
Davidson
Maloney
Woods
Fredericksen
D. G. Martin
Workman

Hopkins: ‘Apartheid’ Yields Best Black-White Relations

By David Hopkins
Richardson Scholar

Yeager Schedules ROTC Inspection

Major General W. B. Yeager, commander of the Third Army Corps, arrives by air Tuesday to make the annual federal
inspection of the Davidson ROTC cadet corps. The inspection will mark the first time that the local ROTC department has
been officially scrutinized while operating the new split semester organization.

General Yeager will be met in Charlotte early Tuesday morning at Douglas Municipal Airport and will meet the Davidson staff
as soon as he reaches the college. During chapel period, Cadet First Colonel Robert C. Young and his general staff
will formally brief the general as to their respective missions and duties. Members of the staff are Lt. Col. Jerry
Cole, executive officer; Maj. W. C. Rustin, S-2, 3; Maj. J. H. C. Harrill, S-1; and Maj. R. L. Moore,
S-4.

Following the briefing, Gen. Yeager will confer with President D. Grier Martin, and will be taken on a tour of
the campus. Cadet Commander Young said that he was confident that the corps would come up with a good performance
during the parade and review Tuesday afternoon, despite the fact that they have not been able to practice since before
Thanksgiving. Col. William L. Adams, PMS & T, looks for a better inspection because of the split semester organization. "The
new organization has trimmed off a lot of excess weight in the cadet corps and I think we're better now."that
we don’t have too many students in the new Seoul YMCA. Many people coming around a movie relating to his
discussion in the Union Ballroom after the chapel program. Davidson unit has consistently been awarded superior ratings in past years.

Tuesday - A representative of the World University Service will talk about a project to aid Bengal student refugees from
Pakistan, attempting to study at the University of Calcutta.

Monday - Interstate YMCA Building, Mr. Osborne will show a movie relating to his discussion in the Union Ballroom after
the chapel program. Adams said, “This new organization has consistently been awarded superior ratings in past years.” He added that
although the whites were the victors, they were not in the larger racial group. At the turn of this century,
the ratio of blacks to whites was about five to one. It was thus almost inevitable that the whites would
take steps to ensure that their hard-won victory was not peacefully lost.

In reply, Dr. Outler said, “I don’t know. I can see the reason for not having a lot of drunks
on campus. But then again it is a problem since so many drink. We certainly can’t be blind about it.”

Q: Do you think a student would be suspended if he were caught with alcohol in his car, considering that
probably one-third of those with cars do this?

Lacy: Yes, it's in black and white in the constitution. But as I have said, I am in favor of
liberalization, but there definitely is a problem here. You don’t want many drunks on the campus, but then again you
don’t want those under the influence outside the campus in cars.

Students Journey To Raleigh Meeting

The annual North Carolina Student Legislature will convene in Raleigh next Thursday with six Davidson students as delegates. The mock
congress will draw college students of all races from various North Carolina schools. The legislature will meet for three days,
December 8, 9, and 10. All North Carolina Colleges are permitted delegates to both House and Senate. The two law-making
bodies will meet in the state capitol for debating and passing bills of state and national interest.

The Davidson delegation, headed by John Ricks, plans to present their Point Four Youth Corps bill which in effect asks
for appropriations from Congress to send young Americans to underdeveloped countries to render aid and technical assistance. Ricks stated that
such a bill would put the United States and her ideas of peace into practice, and would also present the
young people of our country an alternative to the draft. John Ricks, Tommy Colvin, Richard Maseline, Rick von Unwerth, Al
Edgar, and Bob McFarland head the Davidson delegation. Expenses are paid for by the Student Council.

Honor Court (Continued From Page One)

INSURE SEGREGATION - “Apartheid” is an African word meaning ‘separate development.’ And separate development and hard work, not long in
coming, to ensure that they would not be quietly engulfed by their ex-combatants.

The YMCA limits.

A representative of the World University Service will talk about a project to aid Bengal student refugees from Pakistan, attempting
to study at the University of Calcutta.

Thursday - An inter-squad debate, using this year's debate topic, “Resolved: That the United States should adopt a compulsory health
insurance program for all its citizens,” is scheduled with shortened time. After chapel, students will have an opportunity to vote
to determine which of the three YMCA gift-fund projects they will support.

Responsibility Committee Rewrites (Continued From Page One)

Shue also commented on the committee's work, “I think the committee did an exceptionally thoughtful, constructive, and creative job. I
don't agree with some of their specific conclusions, but I think the general concept of the new constitution is excellent.”

During the meeting, the Council also heard a request from Mrs. J. B. Moore for help in keeping study conditions
in the dormitories. A motion was placed on the table which would request the repealing of the rule that a
student who had overcut any class could not represent the college on any organizational campus blood drive will be held
December 12 and 13. Students who donate blood will be given a free ROTC drill cut on Dec. 13 and
a gym cut at a later date. A trophy will be awarded to the fraternity having the largest percentage of
donations. In order not to count against their fraternity's percentage, all those with medical reasons for not donating blood must
submit a written excuse. Donors under twenty-one must have a release slip, provided by the IFC, signed by their parents.

The Council appointed John Ricks as head of Davidson's delegation to the North Carolina Student Legislature, and also reported that
Council member Bill Wallace is in charge of planning for a symposium on overpopulation and eugenics for the spring of
1961.
