**The Davidsonian**

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1960

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Scripts ‘n' Pranks: Split Personality?

The year’s final publication of Script ‘n’ Pranks last Tuesday touched off a pair of sharply conflicting critical estimates. One
segment of the student body maintained that this was the best edition of the year—others, however, complained that it was
the worst.

Judged purely on the basis of literary content and quality, the third Scripts ‘n’ Pranks is the finest college magazine
that has been published here in the last three or four years. But it was not a humor magazine. Readers
looked in vain for the traditional Who's Nothing report; the piggish picture story fell short of whatever it was trying
to accomplish; the cartoons were unsubtly sick. Scripts ‘n’ Pranks was a good magazine because of its short stories and
poetry—not because of its humor.

Part of the fault may lie with the available talent. Davidson seems to be woefully devoid of humorists in the
tradition of Davis, Kernan, and Cole. On the other hand, the editors must have been aware by now that the
very nature of the magazine prevents it from becoming completely successful on either a purely literary basis or purely from
a humorous viewpoint. Scripts ‘n’ Pranks begged for contributions from faculty members, but what professor wants to be published in
a magazine which, in the past, has taken sly swipes at all Davidson holds as dear and true? What teacher
wants his poem printed opposite a doctored photograph captioned “Lust in the Sty”? The best campus poets and writers hesitate
to submit their best work to a humor magazine—but perhaps the best college humorists are just as reluctant to contribute
their wit to a publication that is trying its best to go highbrow.

Ideally, Davidson needs a literary quarterly which would be published separately from Scripts ‘n’ Pranks, which was intended to be
the college humor magazine and should remain so. Our intellectual stock would be upped considerably if we could produce a
literary magazine similar to the Carolina Quarterly, the Duke Archive, or the Yale Review. But this is an ambitious goal.
The college money handlers complain that Scripts ‘n’ Pranks costs too much as it is; it would be impractical to
expand Davidson’s magazine production.

We would therefore make a more modest proposal: Increase the magazine production to four a year instead of three. Two
of these would be published under the Scripts ‘n’ Pranks byline, and would contain only good, pithy humor. The other
two editions, under a different name and different editorship, would be purely literary. If the college is too shortsighted to
pay for more complete intellectual expression, perhaps the literary societies, Sigma Upsilon and student-faculty contributions could finance the marginal cost.

A Challenge To The YMCA

The YMCA chapel Thursday brought Paris fashions to mind. The styles change every year. During the presentation, the “Y” paraded
its new garb for the coming year. President Jim Richardson expressed his belief that the “Y” in the past has
tended to lose sight of its real purpose. The result: the “Y” next year will be the YMCA. The “Y's”
main purpose will be to “bring glory to God through his son Jesus Christ.”

If the “Y” next year can bring a renewed interest in religion on campus, it will have achieved a difficult
goal. We sincerely hope that the “Y” will give its untiring efforts to this goal. We can think of no
finer way to “bring glory to God.” Religion at present is “out.” It is definitely not cool. A real service
will be to show Christianity as being dynamic, challenging, and meaningful.

We must warn, however, that to accomplish any such goal the “Y” must guard against becoming too narrow in its
approach. If a liberal education does anything, it teaches one to be open-minded and tolerant. The Church has lost many
followers because it often fails to appear open-minded. The “Y” must attempt to convey its message in new and meaningful
ways. The Church has become so entangled in its traditional methods and its worn-out phrases that many feel it has
little to offer to modern-day society. We hope the “Y” will attempt to communicate in modern terms to our modern
age.

IN MEMORIAM

E. M. Crowson, printer, passed away last Wednesday night in Davidson. We offer our most heartfelt condolences to his family
and friends.

A Plea For Purity

It is doubtless fitting at this time to state the official DAVIDSONIAN position on Moral Uprightness, for Spring Frolics is
here, besetting us on every side with evil: dimpled temptresses, demon rum, and the host of dark forces. And so
we declare our unreserved support of legitimate motherhood, the Protestant ethic, racial purity, the American flag, and a Good Name
for the College. We urge our readers to remember the One Rule for Davidson students: be gentlemen. And for those
who find this stricture vague, we note that forty-seven pages of supplementary reminders follow the One Rule in the Red
Book.

We admonish our readers to heed the Red Book Stand on the Suppression of Spirits, which is certainly the most
binding and potent rule of all, having been not only passed but affirmed and re-affirmed by the faculty in a
striking display of rectitude. We call upon all right-thinking students to be trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful,
thrifty, brave, clean, and reverent, and we suggest that a humble and contrite spirit is a pretty good thing, too,
which never hurt anybody.

We remind our readers that Davidson is more than a college: it is a place of Great Moral Force. And
at Davidson, those who do not respond to Force are severely dealt with. Lastly, we give a word of caution
to all who might backslide or stumble upon the narrow way: If you must go to Hell, please do it
outside the Three-Mile Limit.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
Assistant Editor . Tom Colvin
Associate Editors . Ervin Duggan, Bob Moore
Managing Editors . David Jordan, Don Saunders
Sports Editor . Bill Godwin
Assignments Editor . Russ Showalter
B. Millner, Charlie Rowe
Feature Editor . Reo Shaffoer
Copy Editor . Jack Hand
Cartoonists . Ackerman Cole
Advertising Manager . Olin Nisbet
Circulation Manager . Butler Bennett
Assistant Bus. Manager . Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter of the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Spring Frolics . . . Because Ackerman

An Open Letter

Dates Young Ladies: Permit me to usurp Mama’s role of confidante as to the ways of males and measure for
you the Davidson model. Have you pictured him . . . self-contained, virile, colorful . . . altogether quite formidable?

GELDED STALLION

Don't expect too much; your stallion has been effectively gelded by his environment. He's unable to furnish the chivalrous attention
traditionally due you in Southern gyneolatry. Rather it is you—as ego warmer—who takes the offensive in appeasing an insatiable self-centeredness.
Your date craves the notoriety that comes with excelling, yet by-passes high-level involvement for the shoddy ideal of social prowess.
Here is an area, he thinks, where notoriety comes cheap. But the price is high—his ability and sensitivity are sold
down the river and his imperviousness to high matters poisons the academic atmosphere.

PROVING PERIOD

He’s a performer—behind that determined misbehavior is the agonizing desire to be applauded. The weekend is no pastime; it’s a
tense proving period which makes gregariousness obtrusive, easiness contrived. And you’re the audience—a captive audience, really—for if his performance proves
incompetent, the only recourse is to a myriad of other, ever alike, sideshows. Sadly, even where involvement is deepest, accomplishment
remains mediocre: there are few uniquely colorful, uniquely coarse, uniquely shiftless creatures at Davidson.

EPIC HERO

If your date’s a hit, the fraternity Homers will give his feats the epic treatment and establish them as a
new standard. With a reputation on which to subsist and understudies galore, he'll devote additional energy to becoming the embodiment
of some valued uniformity. Consider, then, the party area not so much as a barnyard but as a sanatorium. That
exuberant animal is a patient who must be attentively nursed ... be a combination puppy dog and baby doll to
him: compliment the actor with your fawning and

“ALENDA LUX...”

Altered College Motto Yields Sex Allusions

A Davidson College motto? It’s been in the library for twenty-five years for everyone to see. The story begins with
a group of energetic, hard-working, Presbyterian missionaries in China in 1935. These fine folks had a sentimental attachment to Davidson
College. They loved the institution for some of them had spent their own days at Davidson. Along with this feeling
of devotion, the missionaries had a sense of respect for their alma mater; they would not have said or done
anything to mar the fine, age-old tradition of “their” college. In order to show their devotion and respect for their
alma mater,The missionaries decided to present Davidson a gift—something that would stand as a token of appreciation. “What shall we
present the college?” they asked themselves. “Books? A chair? Money?” One missionary suggested that they give the college a rug.
“China is famous for hand-woven rugs,” he declared, “and it would last for years. And it’s something everyone should see.
You HAVE to notice something if you walk right across it.”

The next major concern was to determine the nature of the rug. “What design, if any, should our rug have?”
they asked. It was finally decided that, in keeping with the spirit of enlightened freedom which surrounded Davidson, the seal
of the college would be an appropriate emblem to be woven into the rug. They wanted the rug to be
placed in the center of learning of the college, the library. Here all would be able to see the college
motto: “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” (Let Learning Be Cherished Where Liberty Has Arisen).

The missionaries proceeded to fulfill their plan. They instructed a poor, ignorant Chinese weaver to make a rug with the
seal woven in its center. They gave the old man a copy of the seal which they had torn from
the pages of an old “Alumni Journal.” The old man had never studied any Latin; the Arabic letters seemed simple
compared to his own Mandarin characters, but he took pains to do the job correctly. After laboring long and hard,
he tied the last knot and summoned the missionaries.

The immediate reaction of the group to the weaver’s handicraft was one of satisfaction. It was only after a more
careful scrutinization that a slight—a very slight—error was detected. The old weaver had miscopied part of the motto from the
seal; he had enclosed the small space between the letters “L” and “I” of the word “Libertas,” forming the letter
“U” in their stead. They knew that the rug would have to be cut, and probably ruined, if the spelling
were changed. Thus, they decided to ship their gift to the college without attempting to correct the mistake.

The rug arrived at the college. Officials of the institution decided that it would be only fitting to place the
rug, as the missionaries had suggested, in the center of learning, the library. It was finally decided that the rug
would be placed in the center of all centers of erudition, the Davidsoniana Room, where an outstanding collection of learned
and intellectual documents by Davidson’s own sons had been amassed. “Certainly,” the officials thought, “this is the only place for
the rug to lie. The motto ‘Let Learning Be Cherished Where Liberty Has Arisen’ will have a deep significance in
this place.”

And so the rug remains today in the library of Davidson College. Occasionally one (he’s probably a Latin scholar) smiles
or laughs to himself as he passes the rug. He realizes that the old Chinese weaver did what would happen
only once in ten thousand times; he unknowingly formed a grammatically correct, third-declension, Latin word “Ubertas” from the third-declension “Libertas.”
And, in addition, the motto (as he altered it) made sense. Thus, the Latin scholar smiles as he passes by
the rug in the central workshop of the college—in the room that houses the literary works of Davidson's intellectual elite—and
(most ironically) at the very crux of an all-male institution. The Latin scholar laughs to himself as he sees these
words: “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA UBERTAS,” (Let Learning Be Cherished Where Fertility Has Arisen).

Four Prevalent Breeds And Their Traits

“You can always spot Davidson boys. They wear tweed coats and keep their hands in their pockets.” We were unable
to refute the perceptive coed’s statement when she made it last February. But spring is here, and the breaking of
the buds brings the breaking of old stereotypes. Madras replaces tweed. Gin replaces bridge. The Old gives way to the
New. And so we present a complete bird-watcher’s guide to the Davidson Man, for the edification of blind dates and
other Friends of the College:

THE COMPLEAT MAN
His madras is authentic—but not so new as to brand him a status-seeker. His low-top sneakers bear the tint of
North Carolina red earth. One earpiece may be gone from the dark glasses rakishly perched on his slightly sunburnt nose.
And the glasses are worn indoors or out, day and night. The general effect? A sort of the-hell-with-it elegance. He
is the perfect dance weekend creature, ready to flee the antiseptic confines of the campus, ready to forget momentarily the
burdensome academic routine of sunbathing, horseshoes, and gin rummy. He smokes a virile brand—no filter. He worries sometimes about med
school, but not very much. He has mastered the bored look, the careless smile, the loose gait, the cool idiom,
and at least four verses of the Hot Nuts song. He dates Converse girls, Salem girls, Hollins girls, Sweet Briar
girls, Randolph-Macon girls.

THE RIGHTEOUS MAN
“... an uneraseable flush of piety...”
He hath clean hands and a pure heart and this weekend will play hell with his daily devotions. He is
bent on looking tolerant and sincere and on yielding not to temptation, and the climax of his weekend will be
Vespers. The Righteous Man does not leave the Frolics dances early in the evening, as do the transgressors. He does
not go up the road, but he is careful not to condemn—openly—those who do. He has laid aside his Sunday
School attendance pin and his pocket Testament, but there is still about him an uneraseable flush of piety which identifies
him as a fellow-traveler in at least one denominational fellowship. At the after-parties he will apply the Christian ethic by
frowning respectably from time to time and by serving as a spectator, since some are always needed. He dates Queens
freshmen, former Girl Scouts, the Christian Association president at Peace, or a Nice Hometown girl.

THE THINKING MAN
He is trim, crewcut, Ivy League, horn-rimmed, furrowed. Dance weekend for him is a diversion from the pressing matters of
Diagnosing Davidson and Seeking a Purpose in Life. He is seeking a Mature Relationship. He has had at least one
of Ab’s courses and is eager to hear about the curriculum at his date’s school. He is ready, at the
drop of a graduate-school catalogue, to give his views on South Africa, collegiate morals, or the purpose of Liberal Education.
He considers dance weekends juvenile, extravagant, shallow, and artificial, but he does not miss any activity. “... seeking a Purpose...
and a Mature Relationship...” He dates University girls, Duke girls, Carolina girls, W. C. girls, or maybe Wake Forest girls.

THE PHYSICAL MAN
Clad in bermudas, athletic socks, and an All-American smile, he wants to play. He is bright, enthusiastic, robust. He has
a hearty laugh. On chilly evenings, he wears a high-school letter sweater with the monogram discreetly removed. He is shot
with self-confidence and chock full of protein. The Physical Man is a hero of the intramural field and a charter
member of the dormitory weight-lifting coterie, but his muscles are not knotty and ostentatious—they are in the best Ivy League
tradition. He is proud of his 20/20 vision. He is a walking testimonial to vitamin pills, sunlamps, and chinning bars.
He can stun a bird in flight with a frisbee. He is usually early-to-bed, etc., but the weekend is for
him a welcome opportunity to prove his stamina. Saturday afternoon he may be seen organizing his bleary-eyed brothers in a
softball game, or challenging all comers to horseshoes. “... Stun a bird in flight with a frisbee...” His ideal mate
must be a Pal and a passable tennis player. He loves his mother and believes that honesty is the best
policy. He dates Agnes Scott girls, Converse Athletic Association Standouts, and other American Girls of good character.

I’M SORRY. SHOULDN’T HAVE REMINDED YOU OF IT...
