‘CATS HOST CITADEL IN HOME OPENER (See Page Three) VOL. XLIX

MRS. JOSEPH P. KENNEDY, mother of Democratic Presidential candidate, John F. Kennedy, visited Davidson Thursday noon on her whirlwind tour
of North Carolina. She is shown here with Mrs. C. W. Tillett, national committee woman of the Democratic Party, and
Dean Frontis W. Johnston, before speaking to an audience of students and local citizens. (Photo by Wells)

Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1960

Fraternity Men Request Reversal Of Soph Rush
COURT OF CONTROL SOLUTION PROPOSED (See Page Two)
NUMBER THREE

In a daily meeting, scheduled for Oct. 4, the first proposal is to have the beginning date of the Fall
Semester set each year by the Committee on Academic Scheduling, including the Registrar. This date will be selected so that
the necessary activities, such as classes, exams, and holidays, can be fitted into the college calendar.

OPENING INFLEXIBLE
At present, the opening date is inflexible (the first Monday before the Wednesday nearest Sept. 15) and the closing date
has to come on a weekend because of commencement exercises. Therefore, if any change is made in the length of
the school year, it is necessary to change it by a whole week. The new proposal would allow the length
of the school year to be changed by any desired number of days simply by changing the opening date.

Martin Initiates Informal Questioning
By KNOX ABERNETHY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

On Monday, President D. Grier Martin appeared in assembly to conduct a question and answer session with the student body.
This was part of an effort to better the communication between the student body and the administration. Dr. Martin prefaced
the discussion with a few remarks about the new rules concerning conduct in assembly, chapel, and vespers.

FACULTY DETERMINED
President Martin stated, “It seems to me that this program cannot work in any other way than for us to
go to whatever distance may be necessary to ensure that it will be the kind of program we have outlined.”
He emphasized the faculty’s determination to take any necessary action in regard to enforcing the new rulings. Dr. Martin went
on to welcome student action in carrying out this program.

Y Financial Drive
Student Body President Bob (R. H.) Moore, YMCA vice-president, announced this week that the Y financial drive will begin on
Tuesday night, October 4. The drive completion date has been set for Sunday night, October 9. Moore also announced that
the Y completed its Freshmen Interest Drive this week with 136 freshmen expressing an interest in working with Y-sponsored activities
this year. This total represents 53% of the freshmen class as compared to 44% of the upperclassmen who expressed last
spring an interest in working with Y.

Moore, commenting on the results, said, “We are very pleased with the results of the Freshmen Interest Drive this year.”

Ray asked, “Is it the job of the Christian college to have doctrinal requirements to assure the teaching of nothing
non-Christian, or is its responsibility to provide a diversity of opinions?” President Martin replied by first pointing to the gradual
liberalization of the faculty oath in recent years.

VARIETY OF VIEWPOINTS
He continued, “I do not feel that the requirements that Davidson has and employs keep us from getting a large
variety of viewpoints about religion and broad differences in religion.” He added, “I say to you that it is the
right of a college founded for certain purposes to have the assurance that what shall be taught shall be in
line with those purposes.”

Another person asked what effect the elimination of sophomore rush would have on fraternity life. Dr. Martin replied that it
would harm the weak fraternities and help the strong.

TWO SIDES
Dr. Martin pointed out that the action on sophomore rush was taken by the faculty, and that he was therefore
not qualified to answer the question. However, he did comment, “I feel that it is a matter which definitely has
two full sides, and I believe that serious consideration should be given to the problems that will be created by
this action as well as the problems which will be eliminated.”

Jim Fouche asked why the college bookstore under-orders books rather than over-ordering them, to which Dr. Martin replied that he
certainly agreed that the bookstore should be a service to the students. However, he pointed out that the cost of
books has risen greatly in the past few years and that the twelve percent profit from the bookstore goes into
a scholarship fund.

COURT OF CONTROL
The final question was a request by John Cooley for an explanation of the Court of Control.

Young Republicans Shape Local Group
By MAC PLAXICO
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Over 60 students crowded into the College Union Green Room Tuesday night to form a Davidson Young Republican Club. The
meeting was called to “organize interest in the Nixon-Lodge ticket.” Tom Colvin, who presided at the meeting until officers were
elected, presented Kenneth Brotherton, a member of the Mecklenburg County Republican Party Executive Committee. Brotherton, a Davidson graduate of the
class of 1952, spoke briefly about the upcoming election, stressing particularly the state offices. Brotherton, in turn, introduced David Morton,
president of the North Carolina Federation of Young Republicans. Morton, who is also running for secretary of state, discussed the
organization, role, and operation of the young Republican club.

Bob Davis was elected president. Other officers elected are Bob McFarland, vice-president; Bob Bradford, secretary; and Jon Robinson, treasurer.

D. G. Martin, Bob Stone, and Stefan Young are the candidates still in the race for the vacancy on the
Honor Court. In a run-off Thursday after chapel, two other contenders were eliminated. The final run-off will be held Monday
after student assembly.

The rally will be held until 6:30 p.m. and will be open to the public. The rally will be opened
shortly after 7:30 p.m.

Sophs Edge
The Kingston Trio, a football game, a beauty contest, and the Interfraternity Council sponsored concert will be the featured attractions
of the weekend. The Four Freshmen, who will give their concert from 8:00 to 9:30 on the 19th, were “discovered”
in Dayton, Ohio, by bandleader Stan Kenton. Since that time Ross and Don Barbour, Bob Flanigan, and Ken Errair have
teamed up to become one of the most popular singing groups in America today. Their refreshing approach to ballads, mild
humor, and modern jazz has proven very successful at the numerous club, concert, and jazz festival appearances they have made.

Another Dance Weekend Offers Change
Martin: New Proposal by Class Schedule Shows “Great Merit”
By BOB MOORE
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Three upperclassmen presented a proposed set of pledge training regulations for next year to the Interfraternity Council during its Monday
night meeting. According to the proposal, the limitation is left to the discretion of the pledge. The purpose of the
regulations is to show the Faculty and Administration that students are mature enough to handle their own affairs.

The Faculty Committee on Academic Scheduling plans to present the following three proposals to the faculty for consideration and vote
at the next faculty meeting, scheduled for Oct. 4. The first semester exam period will begin two days earlier and
end two days sooner than now scheduled. The second semester would then begin on Friday, January 27th. This change is
suggested so that two more days can be added to the spring exam period, thus avoiding the congestion that occurred
in the exam period last spring.

PROPOSED SCHEDULE
The third proposal is to change the schedule of classes as proposed by Dean Johnston last spring. This is the
proposed schedule:
MWF—Time TTS
1st—8:00-8:50 1st
2nd—9:00-9:50 2nd
CHAPEL—10:00-10:50 3rd
4th—11:00-11:50 4th
5th—12:00-12:50 5th
LUNCH—12:50 LUNCH
6th—1:40-2:30 6th
7th—2:40-3:30 7th
8th—3:40-4:30 (labs as now) 8th (labs as now)

Freshmen should be encouraged to participate in extra-curricular activities though. Commenting on the above, Martin said, “The new proposal by
the class schedule shows great merit.”To solve their own problems without the enforcement of Sophomore Rush, pledges may not be
required to attend intramural athletic events. The following IFC pledge training regulations were drawn up by Phillips, Fr. Man- sell,
and Epes. Dr. Drake stated that the purpose of the first proposal is to avoid congestion at exam times in
the future. He also mentioned the need for study or participation in extra-curricular activities to take precedence over pledge duties.
These regulations are not to be suspended for pre-initiation activities, except that the limit on time may be extended somewhat
to include such activities.

Dr. Drake thinks that the third proposal will be accepted. There will be a limit of three hours per week
on the time any fraternity may require of a pledge, and no time may be required between the hours of
10:30 P.M. and 7:30 A.M. This time limit will include pledge meetings and count-offs or call-downs but will not include
required periods for academic study. Also, since it is felt that pledges will naturally wish and be expected to visit
brothers in their rooms, this time will not be included under the limit so long as the matter of choosing
times for visits is carried out in any manner not in keeping with the level of maturity supposedly attained by
any college student.

This shall be taken to prohibit not only actual hazing and harassment of pledges but also such practices as requiring
personal services; forced eating; calisthenics; and any other similar activities which the IFC may prohibit as the situation may arise.
Regulation and enforcement will have to be worked out by the IFC as being better able to satisfy all concerned.
However, it should include such elements as strict fines, approval of proposed pledge training programs, and some sort of inspection
system.

In a DAVIDSONIAN interview on Wednesday, President D. Grier Martin said, “I feel that the proposal has a great deal
of merit. It is my belief that the Faculty will give serious consideration to any program of this kind which
gives promise of achieving desirable goals. Sophomore Rush is definite,” continued Dr. Martin, “unless some concrete proposal is made.”

The Four Freshmen's concert on Saturday night will then end the planned weekend of events which will give the Freshmen
at Davidson the semblance of being an- Sleeping African Giant Awakening, Says Moore By BILL PRIDGEN Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Capitol recording stars currently have twelve albums on the market, of which the one featuring five instruments has been
most popular. They have appeared on TV frequently and were in the movie “Rich, Young and Pretty.” The Kingston Trio,
popular in the Charlotte College, will play its first concert of the season on Saturday night.

“The sleeping giant of the centuries is awake, and the rest of the world had better take it seriously,” Bob
Moore remarked as he reflected on his summer in Africa. Moore, who was in nine African countries, replied, “The African
countries, with possibly two exceptions, will not go over to the Communist block. The Africans do not want to be
a pawn in the East-West battle. They will welcome economic help from both sides, but they are not going to
let either side get the upper hand in their countries. From an objective standpoint, I believe their policy of ‘positive
neutrality’ is wise.”

“Before this summer,” Moore continued, “I thought of Africa as a backward country, and thought the African was a primitive
man. Africa still has under-developed areas, but amazing progress has been made in education. Its world prestige is increasing.”

The International Relations Club will hold its first meeting of the year on Tuesday night, October 4, in the private
dining room of the College Union. Everyone interested in international affairs is urged to be present, especially the exchange students.
There will be a brief business meeting for the election of officers. Kookie Kapoor, an exchange student from India, is
to speak on his country in general and will answer questions from the floor.

The purpose of the IRC is to study and discuss international affairs in an honest effort to clarify views on
present world problems and to contribute to a better understanding of world affairs on the campus and in the community.
Dr. W. P. Minter is the sponsor of this group.
