Saturday, September 17, 1960
THE DAVIDSONIAN
PAGE THREE

A LOOK AT... 
By Bill Godwin

The Real McCoy—Or Is It?

THE NEWS is out by now. Davidson fullback Graham Allison has transferred to Harvard. And all along I thought we were Ivy League—in a way, at least. Graham didn’t think so. Took a course there this summer, liked it, stayed.

HOWCUM they played a soccer game tonight between halves at the Davidson-Catawba opener? Truth of the matter is, they needed something for entertainment, found the band a little skimpy in numbers for marching, decided Charlotte could stand a bit of soccer for a change. Soccer man Joe Kelly (a Charlottean) suggested it to Coach Marrotte, who leaped at the idea.

Trustees Act Quickly In Crisis

NO REFLECTION is meant to be cast on Davidson or what Davidson stands for. Some intensive defensive campaign. Who said a team’s best defense is a good offense? We're not sure but we know it wasn’t Coach Bill Dole. More accurate with him would be to say a team’s best offense is a good defense. Finally, this year, the big “D” thing—Defense. Tonight Dole took his young Davidsonians by this funny passed on from Bob Quincy of The Charlotte News. Quincy was reminded of the foot- Wildcats—completely revamped ball coach who was given a lifetime contract. He won for two years, then had a losing season. That December the Board of Trustees met, had him declared officially dead and hired a new mentor to run their show.

Dole has thrown the bulk of his better players onto defense: ends Fisher, Cleth, and Snider, tackles Eddie Crutchfield and Bill Salzer, middle guard Dick Voorhees, backs Joe Ansley, Carl Hunt, Grant McRorie and Harold Bynum, and safety men Jerry Sheffield and Duncan Morton.

SECOND UNIT

The offensive unit—rated second—includes quarterback Tee Redding, halfbacks Danny House, Alex Gibbs and Bob Cordle, fullback Bob McAllister, ends Mike Owen and Lou Zir- wn, center Tom Simpson, tackles Scott Lacy and Johnny Crute, and guards Bruce Usher, Cecil Holcomb and Dave Lov.

The 'Cats again are working from the split-T, but that's about all that remains the same. Offensively, the Wildcats will run and not pass. This was shown when Dole moved Danny House, leading Southern Conference pass receiver in 1959, from end to halfback.

NEW INCENTIVE

The defensive unit may see a lot of offensive action. “When the ball switches over to us,” said Dole, “we'll let the defensive team try for the extra point. This will be an incentive which most defensive teams do not have.”

Dole started the year with 19 At a low point for the Wildcats during the 1959 football season, Coach Bill Dole made this remark: “We could lose eight games.” His statement proved correct as Davidson dropped all eight encounters after its opening.

MY NOMINATION for the quote of the year, stemming from a new conference substitution rule for football, allowing eight changes per game. Bill Dole said it: “The new substitution rule is a God-send and we'll utilize it to the Nth degree.”

AND DOCTOR Charlie Driesell has put up a shingle. On his office door it says “Basketball Coach.” It’s written on a projecting piece of wood, looks good.

SPEAKING OF Driesell, a super-enthusiast on basketball, he couldn't wait for the season to get started. As a result, Davidson cagers lifted weights this spring.

Cold War Lukewarm?

COACH CHARLIE Parker, who spent a week this summer in Oklahoma observing the Olympic trials as a member of the Olympic wrestling committee and the NCAA rules committee, notes one area in which Russia and America do not lock horns—wrestling. The two countries entered separate wrestling divisions at Rome. Russia took five gold medals in the Greco-Roman division (an Eastern type of wrestling which bans the use of legs) while the United States came home with three gold medals in the type of wrestling we know. Both entered token crews in each other’s division.

PARKER HIMSELF looks quite the part of a Golden Greek these days, sporting a deep-set suntan.

DAVIDSON'S soccer team is awaiting the arrival of a German lad who participated in the Rome Olympics. An exchange student, he was one of 300 German youths sent by his government to watch the international tussle—not to kick. Incidentally, Davidson's foreign student total is unusually high this year—16.

BERT KAMM, a Wildcat harrier, is Argentinian by birth but German by blood. His Jewish parents fled the Hitler purges in 1938, three years before Bert came along.

THE SOUTHERN Conference has a full-time commissioner for the first time since 1953. He’s Lloyd P. Jordan and his office is in Richmond.

He Likes Davidson Better

A DAVIDSON freshman footballer, Benny Coxton of Raven, Va., turned down a $50,000 bonus from the Pittsburgh Pirates to come here. Duke also tried to get him. “He’s ready for the varsity right now,” says Dole.

CATAWBA PLAYED two freshmen in its starting line-up last weekend—to no avail. Western Carolina clobbered the Indians 35-0, outrushed them 259 yards to 86.

LOOK FOR a big coaching change to be announced in January. Involves a name well-known in these parts.

Eckbert Out?

On September 30. That dark cloud emerges with the possibility that Bill Eckbert, who paced the 1959 team and ran third in the conference meet, may be forced to transfer from Davidson. This blow to the Wildcats, who graduated only two men from a 1959 team that won 9 while losing only 2, will certainly be felt. Coach Heath Whittle lost Larry McNeill and Charley Bridges by graduation, while Mac Brownlee and Bill Coffey are not returning to Davidson this year. The loss of Eckbert would leave Captain Bob Thompson, Dave Gilmour, and Tom Martin as the principal returnees from last year. Gilmour placed ninth in the conference meet last year and was consistently among the top runners in Davidson’s meets. Coach Whittle is also counting heavily on aid from those being promoted from last year's outstanding freshman team. These include Sterling Martin, Larry Leafer, Bob Leslie, Tom Wright, and Bob Scales. The forthcoming Freshman Cake Race will as in past years provide a talent show for the freshman cross-country team. In addition, this year’s freshman team will be bolstered by three outstanding exchange students who are ineligible for varsity participation.

After facing Pembroke College here in their opener, the Wildcat cross-country team will then journey to Winston-Salem and Davidson to face the Wake Forest team on October 5. The 'Cats will be pointing to their November 2 meet with conference champion V.M.I. and then the conference meet at Williamsburg on November 21.

Big ‘D’ Claws Catawba; Dole Dares Foes To Score

Coach to shift emphasis from offense (and a passing attack at that) to defense was a new substitution ruling in the Southern Conference which allows eight unit changes per game.

NO COLLAPSE

Thus he will be able to use more men—24 to 26 each game—and he hopes to avoid the fourth quarter collapse, largely responsible for the ‘Cats poor showing last year, when they had to depend on one unit. Breaking the above players into classes, he has seven sophomores, ten juniors and seven seniors. And that, friends, is a young team. “Sophomores make up the bulk of the varsity crop,” said Dole. “And the freshmen this year are the best I've seen.”

60 YARDS PER

With the big “D” the Wildcats need a good punter. And they have one in senior center Tom Simpson (biggest man on Running Circles Around Catawba Tonight In Charlotte).Victory over Catawba. Newest face on the Davidson coaching staff is Roger Thrift. Hired this summer, Thrift replaces James Walthall, who resigned to take a position with West Virginia. Both men work with offensive backs. He is married and has one child. With the arrival of Thrift, Davidson's football coaching staff looks like a reunion of the East Carolina alumni. Head coach Bill Dole looks back to the days he was directing the East Carolina gridders. Walthall returns to his alma mater and joins a West Virginia teammate — head football coach Gene Corum. Davidson's other coaching staff includes Dwight Shoe, another Davidson football coach. Thrift was an outstanding passer at quarterback and Shoe played end. Thrift, from Chapel Hill, has held two high school coaching jobs — one at Sanford, N.C. His trophies include state baseball and basketball championships.

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Fans at tonight’s Davidson-Catawba football game had a unique treat. The Wildcat soccer squad, split into two units, held a 10-minute scrimmage between halves. An announcer described the play-by-play—the whys and wherefores—for the audience. Coach Paul Marrotte said it was the first soccer game to be played in Charlotte in 20 years—perhaps longer. His players—30 strong—started kicking around on Monday. Marrotte hopes to trim the team to 22 or 23 shortly. The first match is Oct. 5 here against Belmont Abbey. Marrotte calls his 11-game schedule “deceptive.” Tonight the soccer men used the football goals for their nets. Both receptacles measure 24 feet across, but the uprights tower two-times higher than the nets. By the end of this week, Marrotte (who doubles as history professor) had filled in the blanks at eight positions. Still up for grabs are right wing, right inside, and right fullback. Anchor man and all-star goalie Claude Finney will be captain. The nucleus of the squad also includes Henry Pharr, center fullback; Dick Dalton, left fullback; John Keiter, left halfback; Dave Irvin, left wing; Joe Kelly, left inside; Mike Laughlin, center forward; and a new foreign student, Wolfgang (Wolfie) Mayerhofer of Austria, right halfback. Marrotte has lettermen from which to choose in every position—13 all told. The Wildcats held a brief opening scrimmage Tuesday. “The biggest problem I face,” said Marrotte, “is that we have too many seniors (9) this year. As a rule, I’ve found that they don't like to work on fundamentals.” Lost from last year’s squad—Davidson's fourth—were Tommy Price and captain Ward McKeithen, who played an outstanding left halfback.

HAROLD BYNUM
DANNY HOUSE
’Cat Captains Earn Stripes

Now, you see ‘em, now you don't. Davidson's mean. Coach Bill Dole has worked out a system to keep all his players on their toes. He will appoint new co-captains each week. “They're going to earn their stripes,” said Dole.

NEXT WEEK?

For the Catawba game tonight, co-captains were Danny House, offensive halfback, and Harold Bynum, defensive back. Both are senior lettermen. Next week—who knows? At the end of the season, co-captains will be chosen based on performance. Last year, full-time co-captains couldn't do the job. Dave Warden and Charlie Benson, who filled the posts, were sidelined with injuries much of the season and could not be much help from the bench. Dole will base his selections on performance.

NO LOAFING

“If a sophomore looks good one week, I won't hesitate to make him a captain instead of a senior. And we certainly won't have a captain who is loafing.” The coach feels that the new system will be an added incentive for the boys to make good. He'll choose one man from offense and the other from defense.

Fans Saw Twin Attractions At Davidson-Catawba Clash

Carson-Newman; favored—Duke, NC State, and UNC; and even—King College. Last year, Coach Marrotte guided his booters through a highly successful season, during which they compiled a 7-3 won-lost record. Two of these losses came at the hands of a powerful U.N.C. contingent, which downed the ‘Cats, 4-0 and 1-0, the latter being a real heartbreaker for the Marrotte-men. The other loss was to N.C. State, but the ‘Cats got even with the Atlantic Coast horses by stunning favored Duke, 3-2.

Standing left halfback. Day Phone TW 2-9374 Night Phone TW 2-7587 Archer's Gulf Service ALL BRANDS OF OIL Main Street Davidson, N.C. 24 Hour Wrecker Service-Pick Up & Delivery Service

How Will Wildcats Fare?

Davidson's football coach, Bill Dole, is singing a different tune: “We could break even and that would be a real good season.” Let's see what he’s up against: Sept. 24 — Wofford at Spartanburg; Oct. 1 — Citadel at Davidson; Oct. 8 — Presbyterian at Clinton; Oct. 22 — Richmond at Davidson; Oct. 29 — VPI at Blacksburg; Nov. 5 — Lehigh at Bethlehem; and Nov. 12 — Furman at Davidson.

FORECASTS SHOW:

All four Southern Conference foes have been ranked above Davidson in pre-season forecasts. In fact, VPI has been picked to finish second behind VMI. Davidson is pegged for the number eight slot, just one step off the bottom. Predictions generally placed strengths of Southern Conference teams in this order: VMI, VPI, West Virginia, George Washington, The Citadel, Richmond, Furman, William & Mary, Davidson, and Washington & Lee. VMI and VPI return strong from last season. The real test will be when they meet Nov. 24 in Roanoke. No one figures West Virginia can be held to its 1959 record (3-10) this year. There's too much potential.

Davidson has “two of the most promising sophomore halfbacks we've ever had in Charlotte’s Bob Cordle and Alex Gibbs of Thomasville,” according to Dole. Neither is very large (Cordle, 160; Gibbs, 165) but they can run the 100 in little more than 10 seconds. The Cordle and Gibbs speed, combined with the power of House and the experience of quarterback Tee Redding and fullback Bob McAllister, are Dole’s answers to a backfield nearly picked clean by graduation.

DEPTH GAP

Citadel's backfield talent rates the team behind W. Va. Richmond will field an overall strong squad, lacking a bit in depth. Furman will have some trouble with its young players and William & Mary is hurting through the line. For Davidson, it’s a big gamble—putting major emphasis on defense—but one which, if it succeeds, will explode in the won-loss columns. George Washington is working under a new head coach—Bill Elias. Davidson could well rate above both Furman and William & Mary.

WHO'LL WE BEAT?

Looking for an even break on the season, the Wildcats would be banking on the games with Catawba, Wofford, Presbyterian, and Furman. Of those four, Davidson could whip only one last year—Catawba (42-6). The game which could put Davidson over the .500 mark will be homecoming. Richmond, which in the past has used questionable tactics, will be here and for the Wildcats this means revenge for a 21-7 loss last year.

SPECIAL!!
DRESS SHIRTS
Regular Price $4.95 and $5.50
NOW 4 FOR $16.50
White, Linen, Gold, & Stripes
Buttondown & Tab Collars
Long & Short Sleeves
RUSH WILSON LTD.