Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1960

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Comprehensives: A Davidson Need

Education is not a hop-scotch affair. It is a process. It is not the memorizing of particular subjects for one semester and then forgetting them. It is a unity of learning. At Davidson, we often fall into the fallacy of making our education a one-semester affair. We memorize for a grade and then forget.

THE DAVIDSONIAN wishes to propose what we think will help to make a Davidson education a learning process instead of an advanced course in memorization—comprehensive examinations.

The idea of comprehensives is that a student, in the spring of his senior year, will take an exam covering his major field. His graduation and his final standing would depend on the outcome of the exam. Knowing that he will be required to take such an exam at the end of his senior year, a student would be motivated to master the material presented to him instead of just grasping it long enough to spout it back on a review or semester exam.

The idea is practiced at many of the better colleges in the nation. Reports from these schools acclaim it as highly successful. William C. DeVane, dean of students at Yale where comprehensives are a part of the academic program, comments that they encourage the student, “to pull the knowledge of his major field together and solidify his understanding of it.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN therefore proposes the following:

1. That a system of comprehensive examinations be initiated at Davidson, starting in the departments that already have honors work and which would be better prepared to administer such an exam.
2. That a student be required to pass the examination before he can graduate. The standards of the test should be set reasonably high so the exam will become a climax to one’s college career and not merely routine.
3. That an outside board of examiners be called in to administer the exams. This would not only motivate the student to master areas in his major field not stressed in classroom work, but would also keep the faculty on its toes.

The matter of senior theses is often discussed along with comprehensives. Opinion on such a paper varies. Many have found it successful. To quote Dean DeVane again, “It (a senior thesis) is a maturing instrument of great educational value.” However, others feel that the value of such a program at the college level is doubtful and does not justify the amount of time spent on it. We feel that at present theses should not be required of all students, but only of those advanced students in honors work where the department deems such a paper valuable. This is done in several departments at present. With this as a start, perhaps the educational system at Davidson will advance to a level where such a paper for all students will be considered feasible.—J.H.

Sophomore Rush:

The clash of the old and the new—freshman rush and sophomore rush—is fast coming to a showdown. In the absence of organized reasons one way or the other, we offer what we hope to be an objective analysis of the situation and the factors at stake.

On the one hand, a sophomore rush system would have the following effects:
1. It would give incoming freshmen a full year instead of a short week to appraise college life, academic and social. A man who pledges after examining the system for a year is more likely to be an enthusiastic member, one who joins a fraternity because he thinks that it is best for him. The ones who do not join will increase the independent group and provide more stimulus and competition for the fraternities.
2. A year of mutual examination will vastly increase the chances that a sophomore and the fraternity who pledges him will both have a more accurate idea of what each is getting.
3. Freshmen seeking a common group will develop class spirit, and there will be more healthy interclass competition.
4. The absence of compulsory fraternity activities in one’s freshman year will provide more opportunity for him to become a part of valuable extra-curricular activities, such as drama and debate.
5. The fraternities will seek to provide a better impression as a group; over the course of a year, this will result in a better fraternity and a better system.

On the other hand, sophomore rush may provide the following adverse effects:
1. Freshmen who find it difficult to adjust to college life will no longer have a big brother or a housemother to counsel them.
2. Many men, during four years at college, find fraternity membership quite valuable and meaningful. Why deprive him of one-fourth of this experience?
3. The contact between seniors and freshmen will lessen. Seniors will be too busy with their activities to make a conscious effort to know the freshmen, but the latter often find the relationship to be an inspirational one.
4. A redefinition of “dirty rushing” will be necessary. Sophomore rush might conceivably turn into a year-long Rush Week.
5. Since freshmen will have a year to pick out the fraternity of their choice, the problem of increased homogeneity in fraternities may become more acute.

The Interfraternity Council will make the decision in a few weeks. We hope that every student will spend some thought on the problem, for it is only by an unselfish examination of motives that the value of the fraternity system be increased. THE DAVIDSONIAN will offer editorial comments on the problem in next week’s issue.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charlie Rowe

Associate Editor
Jim Hamilton

Managing Editors
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore

Assignments Editor
David Jordan

Copy Editor
R.S. Millner

Sports Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Tommy Colvin

Cartoonists
Olin Nisbet

Advertising Manager
Albert McClure, Jr.

Circulation Mgr.
Gene Adcock

Ass't Business Manager
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1870.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

Atchison

Dear Sir:

It seems lamentable to me that Davidson has many of what psychologists may call frustrated students. It seems even more lamentable that she has among her faculty one of a rare species, a frustrated professor; and one at that, who is frustrated by the power of those big, bad Greek letter fraternities. One might conceivably wonder why. It could be because he was never in one, or because he hasn’t been offered an honorary membership, or because he thinks they are sapping the intellectual strength of his students. This frustration could be, too, because he is afraid of them, or jealous of them, or even because he hasn’t been able to make his “influence” felt within their midst. Whatever the reason, he is frustrated. The shame of the matter is that this disturbance is spreading among his disciples, and they, too, are becoming frustrated. His freshmen are having the knowledge, for which they are paying dear life to try to get, denied them while they are subjected to expostulations against the fraternity system by his friends. All in all, it seems rather ridiculous to me. The situation has, however, given Davidson something she didn't have before—a rebel without a cause. Poor thing.

David Atchison

Dr. Welles

To The Student Body

Dear Friends:

I received in today’s mail a fine letter from Lt. Col. William L. Adams, Jr. of your Davidson College, together with a Bank Draft for $3,300.00. I understand this is the result of your Annual Christmas Gift Fund Drive, and that it is to be used for The Bangkok Christian Hospital. In the name of the hospital, I wish to acknowledge receipt of this wonderful gift and act of sharing on your part. We realize the sacrificial giving that went into this gift, and we know you will be richly rewarded for caring for people on the other side of the world from you.

As we understand the object of your gift, we have used your gift to order and purchase a new operating room table for a new operating room building that will soon be built for our hospital. The cost of the new table comes to approximately $2,700. With the rest, we will order a new operating light, thus completing one unit. We will place a plaque on each, stating that these are the gift of the Student Body of Davidson College. Thus, you can think that each time this unit is used—and that may well be several times a day—that you have a part in healing the bodies of people in Thailand. I also want to thank Lt. Col. Adams for his share in this gift, for we well realize what he has done to “sell” Thailand and The Bangkok Christian Hospital to you.

Sincerely,
Dr. Welles

IGNORANCE

Greek Week?

BIG BROTHER

by Ben Cole and David Simpson

“A SESSION EVERY NIGHT”

Colvin: Religious Jazz Gives Sense Of Awe, Wonder, Humility

By TOMMY COLVIN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

During the past five years, there has developed a widespread interest in the relationship of religionand jazz. This interest reached its high point only two weeks ago when the Contemporary Jazz Ensemble appeared on the hour-long “World Wide 60,” a new television series produced by NBC.

WESLEY IN JAZZ
The jazz ensemble presented Ed Summerlin’s jazz setting of the Wesley Morning Orders of Prayer, a work that has been receiving nation-wide attention. This approach to religion through jazz is startling to most people, yet many have also found something of value here. This week’s Christian Century states: “We can expect the old reliables who disapprove of everything to wheel out the old epithets and shout blasphemy. They can easily be dismissed: the communion of saints is better served by those who let the Spirit blow as He wills.”

SPIRITUAL ORIGINS
Actually, there is nothing new in the realization that there may be some relationship between religion and jazz. The roots of jazz are firmly entrenched in the religious music of the Negro of the late 1800s. Much of jazz is taken directly from the old spirituals. In fact, in 1938 a Carnegie Hall concert entitled “From Spirituals to Swing” met with great success and interest. And more recently, Sunday is “spiritual day” at the Newport Jazz Festival.

SATCHMO LIKES IT
Several weeks ago I talked at length with Louis Armstrong about religion and jazz. He braced my convictions by announcing, “Religion and jazz have always been together. They belong together.” On another occasion Satch was reportedly asked if he was interested in religion and God, to which he replied, “He and I has a session every night.”

POPE LIKES IT
Even the Catholic Church is seriously interested in this subject. There are many prominent jazz critics who are “higher-ups” in the Catholic hierarchy. And recently, even the Pope has come out in favor of religious jazz (bless his soul). The case for religious jazz has been well summed up by the Rev. Al Kershaw, who achieved wide fame by winning $32,000 by answering questions on jazz on “The $64,000 Question.”

KERSHAW LIKES IT
“While it (jazz) came from the Negro, it spoke to the feelings of human beings everywhere. Human beings might be different in where they live, what kind of home and job they have, and how they are treated, but if they are sensitive persons, there is a common response to sorrow and to joy, to death and to birth, to injury and to happiness. Jazz became an anthem of the brotherhood of sensitive men.

DEEP MEANING
“I would say simply that jazz has deep religious meaning for the following reasons:
1. Jazz helps us be sensitive to the whole range of existence. Far from offering us rose-colored glasses to distort the reality of life as sweetness and light, it realistically speaks of sorrow and pain, as well as of joy and delight.

AWE, WONDER
2. Jazz gives us a sense of awe, wonder, and humility at the depth of agony and height of majesty which life presents.
3. Jazz stimulates us to feel deeply and truthfully. It helps us to know who we are, persons who do feel deeply. It frees us to accept our feelings and to value the understanding that they provide.
4. Jazz, in opening to the depths of feeling, opens to us also the understanding of our dependence upon a Providence beyond us, not of our own making.”

OH HUH .... WHAT COULD BE YOUR REACTION?

Bangkok Christian Hospital. It was his loving interest and concern for a small Thai boy that started his interest in our hospital. Thus, if it hadn't been for him, in the Providence of God, this gift wouldn't have been possible at this time. I also wish to comment that the executive secretary of our mission in Thailand, known as the Commission Representative, is a graduate of Davidson, and a classmate of your president. May I again thank each one of you, and may the Lord bless and guide you.

Very sincerely yours,
Marshall, P. Welles, M.D.

Mrs. Clark

Dear Editor:
For several years I have been an interested reader of THE DAVIDSONIAN. I have been quite surprised at the reversal of editorial opinion since the beginning of the second semester. As the wife and mother of Davidson graduates, I want to express what I think about integration at Davidson College. It is easy to confuse religious fanaticism with Christianity. I cannot think it is a Christian “must” to admit Negro students to a small private college, and I cannot think of any advantages that the college itself would derive from their admittance. It would seem to me that the acceptance of the few who would be qualified would not outweigh the problems involved. And may I timidly submit that it is possible for an act to be Christian, yet unwise. For example, it would be Christian for a woman alone in her car to be a good Samaritan and offer a lift to an unknown man apparently in distress. Yet it would be an exceedingly foolish thing to do. Davidson appeals to me because it is a small college whose students come from the same general background and culture. Isn't that fact essential for happy association and lifelong friendships?

Mrs. Julian J. Clark

TOIL AND TROUBLE
In True Calvinist Ire, I Submit.
BY JOHN STONE

There is a distinct factor which distinguishes Davidson College from many other institutions of higher learning. This is the relationship of the College to the Church. One of the stated aims of education here is that the spiritual growth of the individual should not be neglected along with his intellectual growth. To this end, therefore, the College has provided for both religious instruction and corporate worship in the life of the students and has encouraged other voluntary organizations such as the YMCA and the various church-related fellowships. The students sometimes do not, in what may be their somewhat natural perversity, appreciate these attempts, exhibiting upon occasion conduct which is in violation of good manners and proper respect; they disregard the rights of others. Of course, in true Calvinist ire, I submit that such actions are destined to bring down the wrath of God on the head of the offender. The disruptive aspects of this misbehavior are, in my opinion, of only secondary importance in view of the fact that it causes those students who choose to take their God seriously to seek religious expression elsewhere, sometimes outside the Church. I do not mean that misconduct in vespers and chapel alone are responsible; it is, rather, a prevailing atmosphere of anti-religious and anti-intellectual feelings that are at fault. These forces then turn in ridicule upon the Thing which they have created; they ought instead to first remove the cause and then the presently existing situation might be rectified. I do not wish to seem to be the apologist for that group of uncritical fundamentalists which holds certain unorthodox views, the group which has a somewhat questionable relationship with the Church and conventional dogma. This group has, by its activities, created problems on campus which have caused grave concern in high administrative circles. But I do feel that one of the chief causes of the chapel and Vespers behavior problem lies in the attitudes and actions of the student body. I can see no valid reason why these attitudes and actions should continue.

YMCA PROGRAM
Martin Discusses Vocational Symposium
By BILL MARTIN

“What do you do for a living?” All of us will eventually be asked this question. Will doing something for a living be a fair estimate of what our jobs mean to us? Each of us professes a system of values, even if it’s only “me first.” Our daily work, to be meaningful and effective to us as individuals, must express our highest values. For the Christian, the difficulty in expressing his highest value in his job lies in the thorough secularization of daily life. The concepts of work and vocation have become divorced in our minds. Our jobs seem to have no relation to our spiritual values. It is the purpose of the YMCA Symposium on Vocation to present this problem to the student in the form of the following four questions for the individual:
1) What is the highest value I profess?
2) How, if in any way, do I or will I serve this value in my chosen vocation?
3) Is there a conflict between the value I profess and the practices I must follow in order to be effective in my vocation?
4) How do I resolve the conflict; or if I cannot resolve it, can I choose between my values and effectiveness in my vocation and still make my life really count?

During the week of March 6-11 these four questions will be faced by men from the fields of business, politics and law, and science. The YMCA hopes that each student on the Davidson campus will lend his support to the Symposium by participating in the program in vespers, chapel, and in scheduled informal discussion with the speakers.