PAGE FOUR

JOHN COOLEY, class of '61, spent last year working with the National Council of Churches.

Cooley Explains His Church Council Job
By ED RUDERT
Davidsonian Feature Writer

For a year before he came to Davidson this fall, John Cooley, a senior, worked in connection with the youth department of the National Council of Churches. He has been a member of the editorial staff of Christianity.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Leiper Will Speak At Vesper Service

Dr. Henry Smith Leiper will be the speaker for vespers Sunday night, November 6. Dr. Leiper will talk on "Christ in History and the World Today," and his topic corresponds a great deal to his past interests in the international, as well as the national, affairs of the Christian Church. At present, he is serving as the associate general secretary of the World Council of Churches; and in the past, he has also served as the foreign secretary for the National Council of Churches. In the literary field, Dr. Leiper has been a member of the editorial staff of Christianity and Crisis, a member of the Religious Book Club, and the secretary of the American Bible Society. Dr. Leiper has shown his interests also in the American Academy of Political Science, in which he is a member; this interest is evident of his international concerns as well as those for the United States.

Dr. Leiper graduated from Amherst College, where he was a member of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity, and from Columbia University. Considering Dr. Leiper's wide interests in the literary, political, and foreign fields, all of which revolve around his religious convictions and his interest in the Christian Church, this Sunday we can certainly expect to strengthen our own convictions and interests and our own understanding of the relationships between political, foreign, and religious affairs through Dr. Leiper's topic, "Christ in History and the World Today."

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Bernard
Clark
Daniel
Davidson
Fredericksen
Goldiere
Hopkins
Hummel
Logan
Maloney
McGavock
Meetze
Pietenpol
Puckett
Woods
Workman

ARCHIBALD MacLEISH
Poet-Philosopher's Visit Arouses Student Interest
By ERVIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

An interview with Archibald MacLeish isn’t like an interview at all. It’s more like a quiet conversation or a seminar with a teacher who wears his wisdom casually. He talks well; he is the poet speaking, as well as writing. And his answers are often better than the question deserves.

Tuesday night we talked to the poet at a Charlotte television station, soon after he arrived to deliver Davidson's first Reynolds Lectures. For a few minutes, before the reporters and the television camera grinders began their questions about his politics, the ruddy, soft-spoken man talked about poetry.

POETRY’S ESSENTIAL

He thinks poetry is essential in this age of technology and juke boxes — as essential as science for everybody. “The scientific revolution changed everything, our relation to the world, the way we see the world. One of the results is that now the knowledge of a fact and the feel of the fact have become disassociated.

“Now, for the first time in history, it’s possible for a man to know something with the mind and yet not understand it as a man.

“As a result, for instance, we get a serious discussion of using the atomic bomb. The Chinese say atomic warfare is inevitable, and our two political candidates say it’s at least possible.

ATOMIC WAR: ABSURD

But if Americans really KNEW what happened at Hiroshima, the atomic bomb would be the most extreme of absurdities!

“The Germans knew with their minds about the concentration camps — but it didn’t bother them. It took the Diary of Anne Frank to move them; when it played in Germany, the people were affected for the first time. They left the theaters stunned.

“The inevitable conclusion is this: poetry, the kind of knowledge which poetry conveys, makes it possible to know the emotional reality of an experience.

TRUTH WITH PASSION

“It’s just as Wordsworth described it: Poetry is ‘truth carried alive into the heart with passion.’” He repeated the phrase for emphasis, leaning forward in his chair. “I not only

Faculty Hears (Continued From Page One)

TODAY'S POETRY “GREAT”

He gave contemporary poetry a vote of confidence. “Some of today’s poetry has a rather private look, but this generation is one of some really great poetry. You have to go back to Keats to find an equivalent.”

Eighteen Seniors (Continued From Page One)

of the YMCA and secretary of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Richardson is from Gainesville, Ga. Charlie Ringe is president of

Youth Associate for the United Christian Youth Movement. “It's an appointive job which I got simply because I had attended General Council of the U.C.Y.M. meetings for the past couple of years,” Cooley explained. “It's a voluntary job because you receive just a subsistent salary and expenses for the trips. You're intended to break about even after the year is up.”

About half of his work took place in New York City where he carried on correspondence, planned meetings, attended conferences, and prepared literature. At one point Cooley worked with a Northern group supporting Negro sit-ins in the South and with committees concerned with non-violence Negro organization groups in schools.

“One interesting thing about my capacity as Youth Associate was that I was a non-governmental organization observer at the U.N. and was able to sit in on their sessions,” Cooley said.

Cooley also visited local and state U.C.Y.M. councils and training conferences in Arkansas, Tennessee, Massachusetts, Virginia, Texas, and Minnesota. A highlight of the year’s work was attending the European Ecumenical Youth Assembly in Lausanne, Switzerland in July. This was actually a European assembly of about 1200 young European church workers, but over 150 Americans from the United States and Canada, along with a number of delegates from Asia and Africa, attended the Assembly as a means of making the Assembly truly ecumenical and to help the Europeans see themselves as others see them.

The European churches in the world situation today, the task of the churches in a changing Europe, and the renewal, mission, and unity of the local church were the three themes pursued at the assembly.

“But the most significant thing is the feeling I got that through ecumenical movement there is a possibility of ‘renewal’ of the church—getting away from the Church as just another cultural institution and facing the question of what the Church really is,” Cooley concluded.

Priest Expounds Catholic Doctrine

Father Cuthbert Allen, Vice-chancellor and professor of history at Belmont Abbey, spoke to the Westminster Fellowship last Friday night on “The Implications of a Catholic President.” A question-answer period was preceded by a few remarks by Father Allen on current misconceptions about the Roman Catholic Church and its doctrine. He pointed out that the Roman Catholic Church has never been established in any country, stating that the Church is ‘supranational.’ Although he admitted that there was close cooperation between the Church and state in Spain and Latin America, he claimed that the only established churches have been in such countries as England and Scotland.

Father Allen was asked about the alleged entry of the Catholic Church into Puerto Rican politics in the last few weeks, and replied that the reports have undoubtedly been distorted and that the religious and political situation in Puerto Rico is such that it justifies action of this kind. Concerning the ‘American hierarchy,” Father Allen stated that none of the American bishops or other church officials were interested or concerned enough with politics to try to interfere, if Senator Kennedy is elected.

New Debate Group Cops Second Spot

The Davidson debate group in the novice tournament at Wake Forest pulled down second place against such competition as Virginia, William and Mary, and Duke University. The tournament, held on October 28-29, was won by Duke delegates. Davidson’s affirmative team bowed only to this competition in the entire tournament. Roger Pancoast and Tom Poston, the affirmative team, won five out of six rounds. The negative team, Lucian Jones and Doug Wilkerson, won one round, tied Wake Forest in

Students interested in creative writing may apply for membership in Sigma Upsilon, Honorary writing fraternity, by submitting two manuscripts at the Union desk before November 12. All manuscripts should be typewritten and double spaced.

Vagabonds Select Cast For New Play

The Vagabonds will present “Waiting for Godot” by Samuel Beckett on November 16th and 17th in the Dome of Chambers. The play will probably be presented as theater in the round. The tentative cast includes Pat Douglas, Tim Martin, Larry Smith, David Dillard, and Hansford Epes. Dillard has pneumonia, but it is thought that he will be able to be in the play. Bob Cumming will direct the play.

Samuel Beckett is an Irish writer who writes in French. “Which Way the Wind” will be presented by a visiting company in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 Monday night, Nov. 7. This is one of the eight attractions included in the Vagabonds’ subscription series. Vagabond subscribers will be admitted free; general admission price is $1.00. Tickets can be purchased at the Union desk.

“Which Way the Wind” is a documentary drama by New York playwright Philip C. Lewis concerning the destiny of huI think poetry has a place today; it has a place equally important with the sciences. The absence of poetic sensibility is one of the reasons for this dissociation of knowledge of the mind — from feeling — equal to Yeats. “Frost is a great poet, too: on a level with Emily Dickinson. And if Eliot isn’t great, I don't know what greatness is.

AMERICA’S INFLUENTIAL

“This is a time in which the work of American poets has become the most influential poetry in the world. Pound and Eliot have had a tremendous influence.”

The questioning turned abruptly to national politics, and MacLeish, a ‘Jeffersonian liberal” and former speech-writer for Adlai Stevenson, declared himself for Kennedy. “There's no question about his intelligence, his force. I feel he knows his own mind. He won't farm out his problems as Eisenhower has done, nor will he ask advice as much as Adlai Stevenson would have.”

NIXON’S LICKED

A reporter asked if he thought Kennedy would win. MacLeish laughed. “If I ever saw a man who knows he's going to be licked, it's Nixon.” He likened Kennedy to Franklin Roosevelt, whom MacLeish knew during the last years of his administration. “Kennedy has charm, though not more than Roosevelt, who was the most charming creature I’ve ever known. He has vitality and leadership — whatever that is — as Roosevelt had.”

“SUPINE COWARDICE”

The poet compared Roosevelt and Kennedy as both having ‘a primary interest in means” rather than a more philosophic bent such as Stevenson’s. “When Roosevelt came to office, this country was sodden with fear, terror and the most supine cowardice. Roosevelt got it moving again; Kennedy may have that power.” Asked if the country was now in the same condition of “supine cowardice” as when Roosevelt came into office, he replied, “No, but we're pretty close to it.”

(Continued From Page One)

physical lives of next year’s freshmen, to see that all areas are covered in the planning, and to prevent overlap in the planning. The chairman of this committee is Jack Taylor. Representatives are: Ken Kelley and Bill Wallace from the Student Council, Jerry Cole and Bob Moore from the IFC, John Harris and Jimmy Richardson from the YMCA, and Charlie Ringe and J. B. Doss from the Student Union. Plans for the Interim Council for the State Student Legislature were also discussed at this meeting. Jack Taylor and John Packer will attend this meeting at Duke on November 13, and will present the proposed procedure for nominating and voting in the legislature, which is a mock state legislature. The State Student Legislature will meet around the first of December.

Ringe is from Blairstown, N. J. Henry Shue is president of the student body, a recipient of a Charles A. Dana Scholarship, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. Shue is from Staunton, Va. Verner Stanley is president of the senior class, a member of the golf team, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Jack Taylor is a member of the Student Council and president of Kappa Sigma Social fraternity. Taylor is from Smithfield. Bob Young is Cadet Commander of the Davidson ROTC unit for the first semester, a recipient of a Charles A. Dana Scholarship, and house manager for Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Young is from Atlanta, Ga.

Another and dropped four rounds. In all, 17 colleges and universities participated in the tournament. Future plans for the debate group are still uncertain, according to faculty advisor Joseph T. Drake.

TRIGGER

Rangers Bob and Joe, on snow patrol in a new area, have taken a short cut to camp before an approaching blizzard...

RIGHT ACROSS THE SIDEWALK. FOR, TO GO AROUND THE BOTTOM-AND UP ABOVE, THAT SNOW LEDGE WOULD FALL AVALANCHE AT A LOUD NOISE!

Note: When an “avalanche slope" is in delicate balance, the slightest vibration in the air, such as Bob's shout, will cause it to let go.

Third, the finances of running a fraternity with a smaller group, the increase in the fraternity housing fee, and the cost necessarily involved in an expanded Rush program are not in keeping with the college’s policy of fairness. Fourth, Sophomore Rush would probably make the strong fraternities stronger at the expense of the weaker, and possibly cause the obliteration of a few. Fifth, many topnotch high school seniors, especially those who rate two colleges virtually equal, would not come to Davidson unless they are willing to sacrifice social life completely. Finally, the IFC believes that the freshmen's grades would actually suffer because there would be no incentive to make the C or C-plus average needed for initiation. Also, almost every fraternity has incentives to scholastic achievement and improvement as well as required study and individual attention for pledges.

The faculty considered the proposals for some time on Tuesday but came to no conclusions because they ran out of time and some of the new faculty members as well as some of the others wanted time to consider the problem before making any decision. A number of motions concerning various aspects of the situation were considered but none passed. The motion to return the proposals to the IFC was not even seconded. The problem will be considered at the next faculty meeting, which will either be a called meeting later this month or the regular December faculty meeting. Cole said, “The best way to maintain Freshman Rush is to do two things, (1) for upperclassmen to take less of the pledges’ time and (2) the complete removal of hazing.”

Negro Theologian To Lecture Friday

Dr. Nathan A. Scott, Jr., presently a member of the Federated Theological Faculty of the University of Chicago will deliver two lectures in the Union Ballroom on Friday, November 11. The first lecture, entitled “The Modern Tradition in Literature,” will be given at 4 p.m. The second, “Faith and Culture — And What the Transaction Involves in the Contemporary Period,” is scheduled for 8 p.m. Dr. Scott, who delivered several lectures at Wake Forest College last year, is being sponsored at Davidson by the YMCA. Dr. Scott was born in Cleveland, Ohio. He received his A. B. from the University of Michigan in 1944; his B.D. from Union Theological Seminary in 1946; and took his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1949. From 1942 to 1955 he was on the faculty of Howard University, and for his last two years there was the Director of the General Education Program in Humanities and Associate Professor. His books include: Rehearsals of Discomposure: Alienation and Reconciliation in Modern Literature, The Tragic Vision and the Christian Faith (editor), and Modern Literature and the Religious Frontier.

—FRYE'S LAKE—

GO-KARTS
Banked Turns, Asphalt Track—10 a.m. - 11 p.m.

—BOWLING—
Rooms for Team Bowling Open 18 hrs. a Day! 9 a.m. - 3 a.m!

—ROLLER SKATING—
7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Turn Right Off Concord Rd. on U.S. 29 Then Turn Right At First Stop Light 1 MILE ON RIGHT,

THE RIGHT TASTE BECAUSE VICEROY

YOU THINK FOR YOURSELF ABOUT CIGARETTES, TOO

Viceroy’s got it... at both ends
GOT THE FILTER, GOT THE BLEND!

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1960

To have the Sun, symbol of kingship, on the Midheaven is precisely a configuration that portends elevation to high rank. Despite the fact that the Regressed Ascendant appears in opposition to regressed Saturn in the 7th house, this merely denotes minor obstacles before reaching a desired goal. If we chart Nixon’s purely sidereal solar return (P.S.S.R.) and attempt an interpretation, we find Uranus in the Midheaven. This portends the unexpected and the unpredictable. Solar and transiting Neptune is on the Ascendant, implying disillusionment and disenchantment for Nixon.

SLIGHT HOPE

From the point of view of domestic life, Nixon’s solar return quotidian (S.R.Q.) is excellent, but this hardly indicates election to high rank. Here again we observe the grave aspects connected with the transit of the malefics in mutual opposition, close to the solar and natal Sun. On Kennedy's PSSR chart we note the solar Venus and Sun straddling the Ascendant. This configuration, involving the Sun, is precisely what we should expect to find in the charts of those chosen for high positions.

JUPITER REIGNS

Finally, Kennedy's SQ horoscope reveals that if he were living some place east of Washington, D. C., Jupiter would be precisely in the Midheaven, which would indicate success and achievement. Also in Kennedy’s SQ horoscope, the solar Mars on the Ascendant is at its maximum strength, which is a token of victory against immeasurable odds. Kennedy's lunar and anilunar returns before election show Kennedy’s demilunar return occurring with the Sun (Kingship) precisely on the Ascendant, albeit in conjunction with Neptune. Careful study of these paired charts will reveal that the weight of evidence is in favor of Kennedy, for his are the only charts in which the regal Sun plays a dominant part. Therefore, John Fitzgerald Kennedy will be elected to the presidency on November 8, 1960, unless the universe is involved in a shocking and violent upheaval some time prior to this date.

‘Battle Cry’ Shown By Film Committee

“Battle Cry,” starring Van Heflin and Aldo Ray, will be shown today and tomorrow by the Union Film Committee. The story was written by Leon Uris, celebrated author of Exodus and Exodus Revisited. Uris will speak to the Davidson Student body at the beginning of next year as part of the YMCA’s Book of the Year program. The Film Committee has several more outstanding films scheduled. “East of Eden,” “Tunnel of Love,” “Gigi,” and “This Happy Feeling” will be presented in the next three months.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

how’d you catch on so quick?

Catch on to the fact that Coca-Cola is the hep drink on campus, I mean. Always drink it, you say? Well—how about dropping over to the dorm and downing a sparkling Coke or two with the boys. The man who’s for Coke is the man for us.

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, N. C.

BE REALLY REFRESHED