FOCUS: Acid-Tongued Herb Russell Refuses To Toot Own Horn
By ERVIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

November 30. Cold and windy.

Today you interview Herb Russell, harried jack-of-all-trades in the music department, Davidson graduate, war veteran, irreverent, acid-tongued. You have the
background information. He's a native of Sanford, attended junior college before coming to Davidson. He’s the author of Herb’s Blurbs,
the ever-continuing series.

His office is in the old frame building now serving Davidson’s music department. A blue-stenciled sign on the door: H.
A. Russell. You knock, peer around the door, ask him if he’s busy.

“Yeah, but come on in, my friends.”

The little office is cluttered, piled high with books and papers. It contains filing cabinets, a desk, table, and—in the
middle of it all—an easy chair, bookcases, and a sharp-featured, slight, balding Herb Russell. He is perched on the edge
of a rickety chair, hurriedly stuffing mimeographed sheets into envelopes.

“What do you want? News? I don't know any news. That old bag on the Artist Series Monday cancelled out.
I just found out yesterday and I've got to send out a stream of mimeographed notices about the college.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1960
(All Unsigned Editorials are by the Editor)

The Extension: Safety First

This week THE DAVIDSONIAN attempted without success to find out if there is any possibility that Christmas holidays will be
extended to include Monday, January 2. At present, it is not definite if a change in the holiday schedule will
be proposed in the next faculty meeting, Tuesday, December 6. We hope that the faculty will consider an extension of
the holiday period so as to prevent students from having to return to Davidson in overcrowded traffic conditions.

As we pointed out in the last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, under the present holiday schedule students will drive back
to school after being up until late hours the night before attending New Year's parties. Those students not fortunate enough
to find rides back to Davidson will have difficulty in obtaining public transportation. We realize that it will be an
inconvenience to members of the faculty and administration to reschedule Monday lectures and programs, but we feel that this inconvenience
is of minor importance when a schedule change may avoid serious injury to Davidson students.

The Football Dilemma

Davidson football has reached a crossroad. Davidson must have more scholarships or resign from the Southern Conference. We can see
no other alternative. To continue under the present subsidization policies will simply mean more 1-8 and 3-5 seasons. And athletic
programs and school prestige wither and die when diseased with sickly football records.

Which road is best? We don’t know, and frankly, we’re glad we don’t have to make the choice. Briefly, here
is the situation on either side. Coach Bill Dole says that he can field a team that can win in
the Southern Conference if he is able to recruit six more players a year; this would mean six more scholarships,
bringing his team strength to 44. It would give him greater depth and increase his chances of recruiting one or
two more really outstanding football players each year.

But President Martin says that he has no idea where the money would come from. Also, we have no guarantee
that the extra players would make very much difference, especially in light of the fact that most schools in the
conference would still be offering more than twice as many scholarships as Davidson.

The other alternative: Davidson can resign from Southern Conference competition in football, but not in minor sports. We would instead
play schools with academic philosophies and goals similar to ours, with comparable entrance requirements for football players. The difficulty here
is in finding “amateur” competition. We would probably play Washington and Lee, Sewanee, and Centre, plus a few other members
of the simon pure set. Because of dispersion and distance, travel expenses would increase, while gate receipts dwindle. Some adherents
of amateurism would be shocked to know that most of the amateurs aren’t as simon pure as they’re made out
to be. Coach Dole has been outbid by Washington and Lee on more than one high school football star. W
& L simply offers academic scholarships. W & L was undefeated this year.

Which road do we travel? We don’t know. But we do know that people in high places had better start
doing some realistic thinking. One way or another, something must be done.

Issue On Our Doorstep

Scott Lacy, Chairman of the Honor Court, told THE DAVIDSONIAN editorial staff last Monday that it was time for a
change in the college’s unenforceable under-the-influence clause. Lacy’s honesty and abruptness were refreshing. We are all too used to following
most interviewees around a circuitous path of glittering generalities when such ticklish problems as the drinking rule are under scrutiny.

The Lacy Interview is the second stage of a study we are making on the drinking problem and enforcement of
the drinking rule. THE DAVIDSONIAN is not simply hunting for an issue to argue about. The issue is already at
hand, and the problem has become more acute. It all started with the creation of the Honor Court, a group
which was supposed to make enforcement of the drinking rule more efficient. But the Honor Court has not initiated a
single case against a violator of the drinking rule, in spite of the obvious fact that scores of students are
on the campus and under the influence every dance weekend.

Last spring, Dean Bailey, alarmed by reports that there was alcohol on the campus, asked Lacy to conduct a private
poll to see if the reports were accurate. Lacy found that they were. The administration and trustees were concerned enough
to hold an all-day committee meeting, with student representatives present, to discuss the drinking problem and after-dance parties. So the
issue is parked on our front doorstep. In the coming weeks, we hope to present suggestions for a solution to
the problem.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Tom Colvin

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ervin Duggan

Associate Editors
Bob Moore
David Jordan
Don Saunders
Russ Showalter

Managing Editors
Bill Godwin
Jack Hand
Gene Wells
Jerry Abernathy

Advertising Manager
Olin Nisbet

Circulation Manager
Butler Bennett

Assistant Bus. Manager
Gene Adcock

Feature Editor
Charlie Rowe

Copy Editor
Leonard Richardson

Photographers
B. Millner

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Brains Do Not Guarantee Acceptance To Davidson
BY DAVID JORDAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The brilliant student doesn't always get accepted to Davidson College! The contention that you only have to be a “brain”
and then you have it made holds no water in regard to the Davidson College admissions policies, according to the
annual report to secondary schools.

MANY REFUSED

Figures based on applications made in 1959 (the present freshman class) reveal the surprising fact that a good number of
seniors with college board scores of 700-800 or places in the top quarter of their high school class failed to
be accepted. Why? “The answer lies in the overall admission policies,” explains H. Edmunds White, Associate Director of Admissions. It
is in the same respect that some applicants are accepted who only score in the 300-399 range on the SAT.
Davidson looks for more than just brains. Extensive attention is paid to high school records, extracurricular activities, community work, recommendations,
etc. High grades or high scores are by no means the sole factor.

LEADERS

The high school records and activities of our present freshman class speak highly. When approximately one of every five was
president of his class, 24 head of the whole student body, 145 had varsity letters, and 21 were editor of
the paper or annual, you can be justly proud anywhere.

“We do not wish to be misunderstood, though,” White said. “They are important, of course, as the figures show. But
they do not tell the whole picture.” For example, he illustrated, suppose an applicant had extremely high college boards, and
yet relatively poor high school grades. He is not likely to be accepted.be accepted, for there seems to be a
good correlation between application in high school and college. In contrast, the boy with an exceptional high school record but
low college boards would have a better chance of acceptance. "We feel that the best indication of what a student
will accomplish academically at Davidson is his high school record," the report states.

OVER 700

"Thus, seven students were turned down with SAT verbal scores over 700, and two with comparable scores in math were
also bypassed, while nine were accepted with verbal scores between 300-399 and 3 with math in this range. We hesitate
to give a cut-off point on college boards for this very reason," White explained, "because there are exceptions. However, it
is difficult to be accepted if the scores are really low."

For the past four years, mean college board scores for each succeeding freshman class have shown a steady increase. The
1960 average was 562 verbal, 598 math, as compared to 479-531 in 1957, 532-570 in 1958, and 539-577 in 1959.
Early figures on next year's class, based on early decision applicants, reflect a continued increase. The 23 applicants accepted under
this plan had averages of 566 verbal, 627 math including one perfect math score. It should be noted that these
are scores made in the junior year, while the above figures are senior scores.

The great stress placed on high school academic records is reflected more clearly in figures related to rank in class.
No public school applicant below the second quarter of his class was accepted and only 15% of those applying who
were in the second quarter were approved.

SOME DENIED

Again, however, not all of the higher-ranking applicants were accepted—only 74% of the first quarter public school applicants and just
58% of the private school seniors in this rank.

"We aren’t as selective concerning high school grades for instance as Macalester, Pomona, or Reed. Macalester draws 63% of its
freshmen from the upper 5% of their high school classes," White commented.

Magazine Rates Davidson Among Top Small Colleges

Davidson has been cited in "Time" as one of "50 private four-year liberal arts colleges that can give a good
education to the high school senior who cannot get into Amherst and Co."

"We're delighted to be included in a specific listing of good colleges," commented H. Edmunds White, Associate Director of Admissions.
"Mention in a national magazine like 'Time' surpasses thousands of dollars of paid advertising."

FIFTH ARTICLE

This was the fifth such article in national publications within the past two years to highlight Davidson as a top-ranking
small college, which the student might consider who cannot make an Ivy League school. "Several members of our freshman class
have indicated they applied to Davidson on the basis of a similar article in Harper's two years ago," White said.

MONEY MATTERS

The articles furnish publicity in areas of the country where little or nothing is known of Davidson, he explained. A
special advantage of the "Time" article is the listing of cost per year. In this list of the less expensive
better schools, only three of the 50 cost less than Davidson.

"It certainly helped to be number one on the list too, even though this was the result of alphabetizing, not
an intentional ranking. Being first will draw the attention of many who will not read the whole article," White said.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Dear Editor:

The student "drinking rule" is not enforced and probably is nonenforceable because most students drink, feel that the rule has
no justification, or that the penalty is excessive, or just don’t want to be put into an awkward situation. The
distinction between "duty bound" and "honor bound" is interpreted as freeing all but student council or honor court members in
official function at the time of any obligation to enforce the rule. Expediency prevents a drinker’s reporting a violator, for
this would undermine the tacit "security-pact" of denial and/or silence.

The rule probably exists to prevent the faculty's enforcing a similar rule, and to relieve them of a task, perhaps
almost as unsavory to some of them as to students, which some feel imperative for the "image" of a church-related
(often erroneously called Christian) college. If drinking is basically bad (due to location near or sponsorship by the college?), if
punishment is the best cure or preventive, it is still doubtful that severity of punishment is more effective than certainty
of punishment, particularly when, as at present, both are practically, pragmatically non-existent. This weakens respect for all regulations, being singularly
incongruous with the one demanding that "official statements" be true. It seems that if students should be honest in "official
statements" (and this seems to be one), that students not intending to enforce this rule should, insofar as they are
responsible for its existence, move to abolish it.

Danny McRight

Dear Editor:

This is a good opportunity for you to hear from me again, for this is the first time I’m able
to write a few lines to THE DAVIDSONIAN, and this time I want to thank everybody for the visits they
paid me here at the hospital, since the very day I was in the wreck. I also want to thank
all the people that in one way or another are related to Davidson, people who without knowing me, most of
them, were very kind to me and never forgot a foreign student, sending me flowers, or something to eat or
to wear, or just paying me a visit, which sometimes cheered me up even more than presents, for I consider
that people have to get along with people and not with packages, and I got really used to the "Davidson
Family", in such a way that whenever I saw one of them in my room I felt better at once.
For those who were able to come to see me, and for those who studied (or dated) too much and
were not, I want to say that I'm recovering pretty fast and that you'll have to accept my company again
in a very short time, because they told me they need the bed over here. If you want to see
me before I leave the hospital, you'll have to hurry up and do it this weekend, for I don’t know
what's going to happen next week (Room 406). I look forward to seeing you all in Davidson next December.

Bert Kamm

Abernethy

Dear Editor:

In the light of the ROTC’s "justification by faith", as reported by President Martin, I would like to point up
some of the more interesting facts about the ROTC. Of course, everyone knows that it’s all rosy on paper. But
our ROTC doesn’t let that stop them. They can drill us for an hour and twenty minutes, and still be
perfectly justified. (Just ask Major Fleming; he can justify anything from the verbal inspiration of the SOP to the annihilation
of the human race.) Advanced cadets benefit even more from broken promises. For them, one hour of drill has become
three hours of Tuesday afternoon "instruction." MS II's have not received parts of the uniforms that were promised to them
completely free. But perhaps we have been deprived of the last laugh—the reasons why this devoutly Christian college not only
tolerates the asinine rantings and unscrupulous deceit of the ROTC, but even requires her students to submit to its every
request—from wasting five hours a week to compulsory hypocrisy. May I suggest, without having to spend too many hours in
Belk Basement, that this ROTC ought not to be so blindly defended by the President of this outstanding Southern college
dedicated to Christian education?

J. Knox Abernethy Jr.
