FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1960

Sigma Nu Bleeds ROTC Plans Change Annual Field Day

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WF Plans Meeting After Vespers Open Houses On Birth Control

The following professors will have open house for the student body after vespers Sunday night:

Dr. Harbans Singh, visiting professor from India, will speak to the Westminster Fellowship on Wednesday evening at 8:00. The title
of this program, the second in a series on ethics, will be “The Problems of Birth Control in Relation to
the Exploding Population.”

Forrest Collier, vice-president of Bennett Advertising Agency, will speak on the ethics of advertising.

George Shaw, manager of the Union cafeteria, has announced the opening of Saturday night meal service at the cafeteria beginning
Saturday, April 30. Mr. Shaw stated that this is in line with his policy of extending more benefits to the
students and is for the benefit of both the students and faculty as well as guests of the College. Since
becoming manager of the cafeteria here this year, Mr. Shaw has extended other benefits to the students, such as staying
open later on dance weekends.

PAGE FOUR

Abernethy Bernard Hummel Pietenpol Clark Logan Puckett Davidson McLane Woods Fredericksen Martin Workman Goldiere

Interfraternity Council blood competition will be between the Davidson College ROTC Cadet Companies. Senior cadets and Company points will be
declared winners of Field Day. The annual IFC sponsored event was held on Monday and Tuesday successfully by Ward McKeithen,
IFC president. This year’s Field Day will be characterized primarily by events of a military nature. Events such as the
egg-throw have been eliminated and replaced by such activity as the disassembly and assembly of the M1 rifle and the
machine gun, and a hand grenade throw. This Field Day marks a unique move among the nation’s collegiate ROTC units.
Annual awards will be given at the drill on May 10, 1960.

Davidson students gave a total of 316 pints which was just short of the 321 pints given during last fall’s
drive.

Beta Theta Pi ran a close second with 91 per cent donating. Alpha Tau Omega was third with 75 per
cent, followed by Pi Kappa Alpha with 50 per cent.

Points will be awarded according to a prearranged grading scale similar to those employed in track meets. The tug-o-war, however,
is an exception to this. The winners of this event will receive a flat ten points.

Dr. Singh is a follower of the Sikh religion, the newest of the world’s eleven major religions, being only 400
years old. Its 5,500,000 followers come from a segment of India.

Dr. Edmund A. Steimle, Professor of Practical Theology at the Lutheran Theological Seminary in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, will speak at the
vespers service this Sunday. A native of Pennsylvania, Dr. Steimle received his education at the University of Toronto.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen.

By ERVIN DUGGAN Davidsonian Associate Editor

He’s done it again.

Dr. Woodhouse is one of the few professors who has specialized in the field of English literature. He is the
Chairman of the Department of English at the University of Toronto. Dr. Woodhouse will take a sabbatical leave next year
for further study. Undertaking a project that he has carried for years, Dr. Woodhouse hopes to see the publication of
a booklet available to the student body which would contain trial procedure of the Court along with the faculty regulations
and the student body government concerning trials and expulsions in order to stop wild rumors that often distort the truth.

Lacy concluded by saying that he does not think that the Honor Court has taken all the work away from
the Student Council. “There is,” he said, “theoretically, still plenty for the Student Council to do.”

Baggett’s musical talents are recognized in the Counterpoint combo, and in frequent songfests around the piano at the ATO house.

Doe is a man with an aspiration. “Although I wasn’t able to go to college, I believe in the essential
functioning of the college. I’m about the only stock room clerk in the lab without a BBS. So I ain’t
doing too bad.”

His goal in life: “I’m looking to the day when I can pay back the college that’s lending me money
to build a house. Then I see me smile, sure.”

“What do I enjoy in my leisure hours? Music! Any type of music I can appreciate. Two greats—Beethoven and Tchaikovsky.”

Doe said that in his childhood, he was the only boy in the small community where he grew up. His
parents gave him a beaten-up radio. “I listened to many programs, like the Philadelphia Philharmonic and the New York Symphony,”
he said.Larry Baggett, who ignored the handicap of blindness and won a Phi Beta key, has added another honor to
his list.

This week the national headquarters of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity notified their Davidson chapter that Baggett, a senior from Orlando,
Florida, has won the highest honor the fraternity offers.

He has been awarded the 1960 Thomas Arkle Clark Award, given to the senior member of the national fraternity judged
to be the most outstanding ATO in the nation.

Baggett, a physics major, is no stranger to honors. He served as president of his high school student body. At
Davidson, he has maintained a spot on the Dean’s List all four years, and this year was honored with membership
in Phi Beta Kappa. He served on the Honor Court. He was president of Sigma Pi Sigma, physics honorary fraternity.
And recently he won one of Davidson's eight Woodrow Wilson Foundation grants for graduate study—one of America’s most coveted academic
awards.

Modest Baggett doesn’t like to inspire awe. “I don’t like being some sort of phenomenon,” he said in a chapel
program last fall. “I just want to be a normal blind boy.”

But the “normal blind boy” can't help amazing everybody. He once made a perfect score on a calculus exam, doing
all his figuring mentally! He tutors sighted math students, calculating faster mentally than his students can do on paper. He
is an accomplished pianist, with a talent ranging from jazz to the classics. He is a formidable bridge player, using
cards with tiny braille notations in the corners.

Baggett was selected by his fraternity brothers to represent the Davidson ATO chapter in the national competition; his record then
was compared to reports on province winners from all over America—and he emerged the victor, topping hopefuls from over one
hundred and twenty colleges and universities across America and Canada.

Baggett’s victory made a record: he’s the second Davidson student to win the national award in five years. In 1955,
Linny Marshall Baker of Kannapolis won, having chalked up an average of straight A’s and A-pluses, marred by only one
B-plus, for all four years.

Yesterday Baggett expressed surprise at his victory. “I really didn’t think I had a chance for that thing,” he said.

But his friends aren’t too surprised. “Normal blind boys” with Phi Beta keys, Woodrow Wilson grants, Dean’s list averages, and
two or three top scholars on this continent in 17th Century English Literature don’t turn up too often.

Without warning, James—or Doc—broke into a round, mischievous grin. “You know Dr. Cunningham always referred to this college as ‘This
Christian Institution’.”

Dr. Steimle has been quite active in speaking to college groups all over the East. He has spoken for chapels
and religious services at such schools as Duke, Vassar, Penn State, and Cornell.

Dr. McCutchan will study with Dr. Woodhouse for about a year’s time. Dr. McCutchan said that he was grateful to
the Administration for making it possible for him to undertake the project. He joins four other professors that will be
on sabbatical next year, bringing to 14 the number of professors to be replaced for next year.

Mr. Shaw also stated that these meals will be served at reasonable prices. The tables will be furnished with tablecloths
and there will be waiter service. The following is a sample menu:

Seafood platter
Sirloin strip steak
One half fried chicken

The above will be served with French fried potatoes, tossed salad, toast & butter, with iced tea or coffee.

The chimes were sounding. “Hear those chimes?” he asked. “In this hour be thy guide. So by his power, no
soul shall slide.” Life is wonderful,” he meditated.

We walked under a single lamp. The building was getting dark.
