FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1960

SIDE LINES ON SPORTS
By B. MILLNER

THE DAVIDSONIAN
By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“Maybe we can give V.P.I. a good game,” said Coach Scott this week. Again the “maybe” cropped up, as it
has all season long for his basketball team.

THIS WEEK'S INTERVIEW with Dr. Tom Scott points up one of Davidson’s chief problems: The need for a realistic athletic
program. We have reached a point at which we can no longer expect to have winning teams in football and
basketball as long as we play under the present policies of subsidization and admissions. Davidson gives out fewer scholarships than
any other Southern Conference school while at the same time setting much stiffer entrance requirements for athletes.

Maybe, and the Wildcats have lost 13 of 17. But Scott was optimistic. Not that he had any reason to
be, since Virginia Tech sits atop the conference and Davidson occupies the cellar. The two teams were slated to clash
here tonight. The Gobblers sport “the best center in the conference—Chris Smith,” said Scott. Their top scorer is a sophomore
forward Bucky Keller.

The Southern Conference, in the last three years, has “gone big-time.” Institutions like Furman and The Citadel, once on a
subsidization program similar to ours, suddenly doubled football grants and increased emphasis on other sports. As a result, the conference,
one of the largest in the nation, has also become one of the strongest. While the conference has made great
strides athletically, Davidson has stood stock still.

Davidson has been in this predicament once before, in 1953, when we didn’t win a single football game. But that
year, the Big Four (Wake Forest, U.N.C., N.C. State, Duke) pulled out of the conference, formed the ACC, and left
Davidson to play teams of comparable strength. Now, seven years later, the cycle has worked its way around again—except now
there appears to be no Big Four to drop out and relax the competition. Davidson is competing successfully with conference
teams on the minor sports level but is it only a question of time until we're outclassed in these also?
Recent disappointing seasons in baseball and wrestling would seem to indicate as much.

WHAT'S THE SOLUTION? We haven't got an answer. A series of DAVIDSONIAN interviews beginning with this issue may shed some
light on the dilemma.

Intramural basketball and handball began this past week with the interfraternity track meet slated for this coming week. In Wednesday's
basketball action, the KA’s trounced the ATO’s 70-41. Hight Redmond and Bill Gayle led the KA scoring with 14 points
each. Jim Owens had 14 for the ATO’s. Don Killian hit 25 points and sparked the Sigma Chis to a
99-20 slaughter of the Sigma Nus. Art Toole and Bill Kirkland had 6 apiece for the losers. Quinton Boyd hit
30 points to lead the Pi Kapps to a 71-30 win over the Sig Eps. Melvin McKenzie had 14 for
the losers. The SAE’s, defending co-champions, caught fire the second half to wallop the Pikas 56-30. Doug Orr was high
for the winners with 16 points, while Ed Hines contributed 13. Keith Fraser had 16 for the Pikas. Tee Redding
and Curly MacQueen, with 15 points each, led the Independents to a 60-52 win over the defending co-champion Phi Gams.
Lew Zirkle, with 18 points, was high for the Phi Gams.

THE QUESTION of whether or not inactive fraternity members are eligible to compete in the intramural league for the Independent
team has come before the IMAC and the issue remains deadlocked. There is no provision covering the problem in IMAC
regulations and it takes a two-thirds majority to put one on the books. The vote was tied last Wednesday night
at six-six, with one representative absent. The only thing certain is that inactives will be able to play for the
Independents throughout the entire basketball and handball seasons. Another vote will be taken to determine eligibility for track and the
spring sports.

WE FEEL that it would be in keeping with the Council’s objective to provide an opportunity for all to participate
in sports at Davidson to allow the inactives to play for the Independents. The IMAC has also come under some
criticism for not allowing freshmen who received a freshman numeral last year in basketball to play for their fraternity this
year. On this question, we agree with IMAC president Ty Finch, who maintains that the rule is a good one.
Its purpose is defeated by the athletic department, which gave a numeral to every player on the team, regardless of
how much he played. The rule was designed to keep sophomores from dropping off varsity athletic teams to play for
their fraternity. This was a frequent occurrence in wrestling, where an athlete would resign just in time to compete in
the I-F meet, then come back out for the varsity team.

COACH SCOTT has a new prospect for his basketball squad in transfer Lee Coward. A 5-10 guard, Coward transferred from
N.C. State College, where he was on part scholarship. He is from Goldsboro and played prep basketball at McCauley. Coward
won’t help us this year, however, as he doesn’t become eligible until next fall.

Hot Catfish, 5-1, Swim Ga. Teams
By D. G. MARTIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's swimming team will put its fine record on the line again next Thursday and Friday against Georgia and Georgia
Tech respectively. The Catfish are the bright spot on Davidson’s winter sports scene. Their 5-1 record is marred only by
a controversial early season loss to V.M.I.

Davidson's last victory came at the expense of Virginia Tech before the exam period began. The Catfish came from behind
to take the meet 49-46 by winning the final relay. The upset win was one of the most exciting athletic
events at Davidson in a long time. Swimming Coach Dwight Shoe attributed the victory to desire and “a lot of
team spirit.” “Bill Hellier came out of the infirmary to swim for us that day,” Shoe noted. “His swimming for
us may have been the turning point in the meet.”

Coach Shoe said that he still expects a number of school records to fall this year. “Every time the boys
get close to their peak, we have a break. Then we have to start all over again. But it’s a
straight stretch between now and the end of the season. Our times should go down. I don’t know how much
ground we can cover between now and then. Some of the boys don’t seem to be hurting too much from
the break. Tom Hudgins is probably not off his time very much, and John Scott is digging in and may
be better now than his meet times.”

Young Man With a Date
No matter what your educational background—the arts, the sciences, business or engineering—make a date to talk with a Bell interviewer
when he visits your campus. Wide range of opportunities.

ERSKINE TOMORROW
Tomorrow night the Wildcats go against Erskine in the latter’s gymnasium. Erskine shocked Davidson for an upset in their last
game. “We had a real bad game that night,” said Scott. “We had a 10-point lead the second half and
lost.” But the Wildcats broke a 12-game losing streak Wednesday night at Pembroke, 81-73. Crack shooting by forward Bill Shinnhelped
offset a late Indian uprising, and Shinn wound up with 22 points, high for Davidson. The game's high scorer, Bill
Smith, with 23, pulled Pembroke to within six points of Davidson in the closing minutes.

Handball, Basketball Complete First Week

Interfraternity basketball points, was high for the losing Fijis. The Beta-Phi Delt game was postponed, while the Kappa Sigs drew
a bye. In Tuesday’s handball action, the Kappa Sigs dropped the Pi Kapps; the SAE’s beat the Sigma Chis; the
Independents won over the Sigma Nus; the Sig Eps nosed out the KA’s; the Betas whipped the Phi Gams; and
the Phi Delts beat the Pikas. On Thursday, the Independents won over the Pi Kapps; the KA’s beat the Sigma
Chis; the Betas dropped the Sigma Nus; the Sig Eps beat the Pikas; and the Phi Delts defeated the Phi
Gams. The SAE-ATO match was postponed.

The following is the time schedule for the interfraternity track meet:
Trials—Wednesday, February 10—4:00, shot, broad jump; 4:30, discus, 100-yard dash; 4:45, low hurdles; 5:15, 220-yard dash.
Finals—Thursday, February 11—4:00, shot, high jump; 4:15, discus, 100-yard dash; 4:25, 3-quarters; 4:35, low hurdles; 4:45, broad jump; 4:50, 440-yard
run; 5:00, 660-yard run; 5:15, 220-yard dash; 5:30, ¾-mile relay (four 220s).

Other leading scorers for the Wildcats were John Huie, 14, and Allan Millar, 11.

LAST CHANCE

Last chance for Scott’s players to break out of the cellar for a Southern Conference tourney berth will be Tuesday
night at V.M.I. The Keydets are already assured an appearance in the post-season tournament. But Richmond, with only one conference
victory, may not make it. The Spiders have another game left with V.M.I. Should they lose, the Wildcats will be
ahead of them in the standings.

Guard Jerry Bussell has recovered from his nose injury. Bill Shinn, crack forward, is looking real good, according to Scott.
“He's driving better now.” “Maybe,” Scott said again, “we can give those guys a good game.”

FRESHMEN

While the varsity basketball team took on a pair of challengers this week, Coach Hunt's freshmen stayed home and practiced
for their last two games of the season. An engagement scheduled for last Wednesday night at Pembroke was cancelled, Hunt
reported. The Wildkittens travel to Misenheimer Feb. 11 for a return match with Pfeiffer. “We beat them pretty bad in
December,” Hunt said. Bill Jarman scored 39 points. Jarman's average for the season now stands at 26 points per game.
Trailing the center is guard Haywood Evans with 14. Last game of the winter is slated for Feb. 16. Wingate
Junior College, sporting a 6'9" center, Bobby Franks, will be here. “He should give Jarman a real battle,” said Hunt.
With Franks will be guard Robert Koontz, “a crack outside shooter,” pitted against the Wildcats.

Cats Meet Loop Leader VPI...‘Maybe’

Davidson Breaks Loss Skein At Pembroke

WAKE FOREST NEXT

First Win In Sight For Matmen At Emory

By JIM PRESSLY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's winless wrestling team travelled to Atlanta today to meet a weaker Emory squad. Coach Charlie Parker in commenting on
their strength, said, “Emory is not very strong except in one weight, and that's the weight we have been forfeiting
all season.” He was talking about little Ted Wilson, Emory’s 123-lb. man, in the class in which the Cats lack
a wrestler.

For the big V.M.I. encounter, Coach Scott has a team “much better physically since exams are over.”

The freshman team is also winless thus far this season. Top prospects for next year’s varsity are George Pepper, Ben
McCoy, and John Eggers.

Riflers Travel To Virginia Tomorrow

The Davidson ROTC Rifle team travels to Richmond tomorrow to fire against Richmond and VMI in an ROTC match. It
will be the first time the Wildcat squad has fired against either team this year. Sgt. Jim McCurry, coach for
the locals, commented that judging from results of the Randolph Hearst Match, VMI should be pretty strong. “Richmond is about
the same as last year, though,” McCurry said, “We shouldn't have too much trouble with them.”

The next home match is against Presbyterian next Friday.

The whole is equal to the sum of its parts (But some of its parts are more equal than others!)

In action thus far the squad has lost to Duke, Carolina, State, and The Citadel. The top individual performers have
been the heavy men: Cliff Thompson (167), Jim Alexander (177) and Alec Porter (Heavyweight). Thompson is 3-1, including one win
by a forfeit. Alexander has won two, lost one, and tied one, and Porter is 2-2. Gee (147) is wrestling
at a 500 pace with one win and one loss. LeDoyen (157) and Brown (137) are both 1-3, and Brauch
(130) has yet to scratch.

After the Wake Forest match, the last two matches of the year pit Davidson against two strong teams—V.M.I. and V.P.I.
There is also the possibility of a match with Pfeiffer before the end of the season.

TOURNEY HELD HERE

At the end of regular season action, the Southern Conference Tournament will be held here March 4-5. V.P.I. will be
favored to repeat last year’s victory, with West Virginia running a close second.

Georgia and Georgia Tech should both give Davidson good competition in the meets next week. Coach Shoe expects an especially
tough meet from Georgia, a team that has improved with each meet this season. “The team is in poor shape
after the break for exams,” Shoe reported. “I just don't see how we can get them back down considerably between
now and then.”

The Catfish will conclude the home season on February 19 when they play host to Emory. On the 27th they
travel to Charleston to meet the Citadel. They will return to Charleston on March 3, 4, and 5, to wind
up the season at the Southern Conference Meet.

SEE YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICER FOR AN INTERVIEW

Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company

REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON THE CAMPUS FEBRUARY 11 AND 12
INTERVIEWS: FEBRUARY 11 FROM 9:00 A.M. TO 5:00 P.M.
FEBRUARY 12 FROM 9:00 A.M. TO 1:00 P.M.

Even Euclid had to admit... It's what's up front that counts

Euclid proved that a straight line is the shortest distance between two points. And if you'll walk a straight line
to the nearest pack of Winstons, you'll find it the shortest distance to a really enjoyable smoke. It’s the tobacco
up front that makes the difference and that’s where Winston packs its own exclusive Filter-Blend—a special selection of light, mild
tobacco, specially processed for filter smoking. You'll find Filter-Blend gives Winston a flavor without parallel. In fact, it’s axiomatic that...

WINSTON TASTES GOOD, LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
