KENNEDY FOR PRESIDENT? THE DISENTHRALLED

The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise to the occasion. As our case is new, so we must think anew and act anew. We must disenthrall ourselves. —Abraham Lincoln.

—We still have a naval base on Guantanamo Bay.
—Venezuela hasn't gone completely over to Communism.
—So our economic growth is sluggish—our standard of living is still way above the Soviet level.
—You may be ahead of us in rocket thrust, but we're ahead of you in color television.

America is crying for imaginative leadership. We need a man who will think tough and move quickly, who is disenthralled with a smile and the status quo. The man is John Kennedy. He has dared to criticize a popular president, the personality poll winner of the world. He has said that America’s prestige as the bellwether of freedom is on the wane — and Richard Nixon called his willingness to face the facts un-American. He is daring us to make a choice between complacency and resourceful action, between adequate defense and color television.

The symptom of America’s fading effectiveness as the spearhead of the freedom movement is her loss of prestige. John Kennedy has charged that this country’s prestige is evaporating, and he has made futile pleas for the publication of an administration-suppressed poll that would back him up. To Senator Kennedy, prestige starts at home, not in the studios of the Voice of America. The United States must be number one not only in rocketry, but in civil rights, adequate housing, education, and labor relations. These issues are America’s prestige, not “experience,” Catholicism, wives, or the number-two man on the ticket.

Kennedy, in most cases, has assumed a firm position on the issues and has maintained it. Vice President Nixon has slickly maneuvered, kissing conservative babies on one side while shaking liberal hands on the other. One reads his Harlem speeches and his Charlotte and Columbia speeches and wonders if the same man wrote them (probably didn’t). But throughout the campaign, Kennedy has refused to equivocate. He acknowledges that the American standard of living has risen to the highest level the world has ever known, but he maintains that it has not risen at the optimum rate. To meet the economic challenge of the Soviet Union, we cannot continue to risk stagnation caused by sluggish fiscal policies. There is widespread poverty in West Virginia. Mountain children in the Ozarks are ravaged by hookworm and rickets. Itinerant fruit pickers battle to clothe and feed themselves in the lush San Joaquin valley.

Both candidates favor advances in civil rights. But which candidate will do something about it? Kennedy’s voting record shows a sincere desire to ensure full citizenship for every American. The man wearing the administrative coattails that Nixon clings to has consistently bungled civil rights since 1954 simply by not providing adequate leadership. Throughout the campaign Nixon has presented two civil rights platforms—one to the North and a different one to the South. Lodge has campaigned in Harlem and Goldwater in the Carolinas.

Vice President Nixon has charged that the Kennedy program will amount to nothing but creeping socialism, a fearful resurrection of the New Deal. Senator Kennedy is not trying to undermine the Protestant Ethic or to destroy the spirit of capitalism. He is merely trying to do for the people what they can’t do for themselves. Nixon, in a voice ringing with confidence, cries that the American People will provide for themselves through “individual initiative.” The farmer can initiate until he’s blue in the face, and where does he end up? Neck deep in surplus spinach. John Henry Jones can escape his Niggertown shack by initiating for himself. He can get a job on a city garbage truck. People in depressed areas will stay depressed unless somebody gives them a new start. Kennedy, not Nixon, will give it to them.

John Fischer of Harper's lists four compelling reasons to vote for Kennedy. They are as good as any.
—The next Congress will surely be Democratic. In the next four years, America will likely face the worst crises since Lincoln. We cannot afford a deadlock between the White House and Congress.
—Vice President Nixon cannot easily repudiate the Old Guard, backward-looking policies of the Eisenhower administration. Kennedy is in a better position to act promptly, with imagination.
—Kennedy is better equipped for the job. He has shown a broader understanding of the upheavals now shaking the world. He realizes that merely “standing up” to the Russians just won't do the trick. We must face them with hardware, infantry divisions and smart diplomacy.
—Kennedy has more of the moral fiber necessary for effective leadership in these times. Both men have hedged on some issues; both have yielded at times to political expediency. But Nixon’s record, steeped in sly.innuendos and McCarthyism, leads Walter Lippmann to wonder if he has “within his conscience those scruples which the country has a right to expect in the President of the United States.” We do not accept John Kennedy without reservation. We wonder about his farm policy and we question his solution to the Cuban crisis. But we conclude, with a clear conscience, that he is the only man who can give America the leadership that America desperately needs. We feel that only Kennedy has the courage to think tough, to act quickly and imaginatively, to disenthrall himself and a pot-bellied America.

President Questions Depth Of Student Faith
By JIMMY RICHARDSON
YMCA President

At each YMCA Cabinet meeting each week we have a period of discussion in which we try to better understand one another. At present we are discussing the book Faith And Learning by Alexander Miller. During the last meeting a quotation from Miller's book caught my attention and has stuck in my mind. Concerning students, he writes:

“They are restless with their own illiteracy in matters of faith; they know that their intellectual grasp of their formal religious heritage is disreputable and poor. They are not content that as their intellectual life matures, their religion should stay adolescent. And they know even better than their parents can tell them that the shapeless life is no more worth living than the unexamined one.”

This troubles me in that I don’t think that it applies to very many of our students here at Davidson. We attend chapel and vespers because we have to, and we take Bible courses because we are required to take them. But this is as far as it goes. We are not restless with our “own illiteracy in matters of faith.” Most of the Davidson students come from a background of some type of religious heritage. But rather than try to see beyond the shallowness of “Sunday School” religion and grasp a deeper intellectual meaning to our faith, we simply forget about our faith and allow it to become stagnant. We let our intellectual life mature, but our religion stays adolescent.

LACK OF FAITH

It appears to me that we Davidson students are interested in grades, dating, dressing nicely, and eating good food. Somewhere farther on down the line of our interests, we may let religion “slip” in. It scares me to think that many of us Davidson students have no faith upon which to build our lives. That which many of us do have is weak, untried, and unused.

General Hester's talk in Chapel Tuesday on Nuclear Warfare and Pacifism made me realize that the world may soon have another war, and it will be at times such as this that we will greatly miss a solid faith in the Supreme Being. Perhaps we miss it now!

HONEST DOUBT

This year the YMCA has published A Devotional Booklet for Davidson Students which was written by and especially for the Davidson student. One of the series of devotionals is based on honest doubt. I think that there is much to be said for these articles for they show that at least one student is interested in faith and religion, interested enough to doubt it, and to investigate it. Perhaps all is not dead or stagnant. These devotionals show that at least one is restless with his “own illiteracy in matters of faith.”

This article purposes to advocate the candidacy of Richard Nixon for President of the United States. With this in mind, be forewarned that the arguments advanced will be presented in such manner as to indicate that the unbiased, nonpartisan writer is being forced by the clarity of his own logic into the Republican camp. Be not misled. He has become prematurely conservative and has no practical choice other than Mr. Nixon. Unfortunately, this best available argument (namely, that of “the lesser evil”) has already been skillfully preempted.

Getting down to brass evils: both principal candidates (incidentally, the “candidate” of the Socialist Workers’ Party is North Carolina's own Farrell Dobbs, not Norman Thomas), Nixon and Kennedy, have strong personal appeal. A preference on this item probably depends on your position on other matters. If you support one you can develop an abundant and sincere case that the other is a slick, manipulative, artificial, organized, tongue-in-cheek politician. Indeed, the “other” probably is a highly trained character actor.

Both aspirants claim Jeffersonian ancestry; neither is Trumanian. Any differences of wealth, clothes, yachts, religions, homes, wives can be termed trivia mon consequentia... or something. Fortunately, the hypothetical choice between pacifist and papist does not appear to be a real one in this election; although it might have proved an enlightening test of our bigotry.

Defense? Both are for it; and for foreign policy as well, Kennedy must connect Nixon with Republican fiascos while alienating him from any successes. Nixon must give the opposite impression: that his advice was incorporated into successful ventures, etc. This is the experience theme; it has recently been salted away by Kennedy’s clever pun that “we can’t afford many more of (Nixon's) experiences.” Until recently the best rejoinder to this would have been to cite the Democratic advisers on foreign policy, Bowles and Stevenson. These New Frontiersmen advocate an accelerated accommodation for the Muscovites rather than greater resistance. The Kennedy inconsistency on the Quemoy-Cuba issues, however, (jumping from his advisers’ liberal position on China’s offshore islands to the conservative position with regard to our own) easily refutes our citation for the present. And for the future? Perhaps not. Perhaps we shall see.

In genteel agreement with all preceding commentators: economic philosophy is the key area of greatest divergence. Acknowledge first, however, that the federal gravy train is not going to slow down, and that regardless of the party chosen for President we would appear doomed for that “outer darkness: there shall be weeping and nationalization of teeth.” The distinction then rests with whether the recipient is encouraged to voluntarily help prepare his own gravy or encouraged to let the taxpayers (sic) do it.

Everybody has some form of health club plan, farm plan, dole plan, schoolhouse plan, budget plan. If the Democrats actually plan to spend 10 to the 9th dollars more than the Republicans the two are still equivalent within a mere 1 per cent error in fiscal calculation; which recalls that old economic maxim: two quantities are either equal, or one (or the other) is larger, or else! Nevertheless it is in this realm of economic soothsayings, promises, heralding and demands that we encounter the most reliable differences in intention.

There is a definite distinction between the modestly unsophisticated proposal to continue trying to balance the budget at slightly higher gravy output while increasing the incentive for productive people to be productive, and the progressive proposal of the party “for the people” to raise capital taxes, increase handouts, and operate at a planned rate of fiscal deficit. Democrat Rose has opined that Republican tight money leads to higher interest rates, and, therefore, to higher taxes and higher prices; while Kennedy’s eminent Harvard Frontiersman, J. K. Galbraith, asserts that inflation is actually a good thing (We simply hand out more to those whose savings are decimated by inflation, inflate the tariff barrier to avoid the challenge of non-inflating foreign competition, hand out more to the competition so they won't resent the tariff—perennial Santa Claus!). If their arguments are consistent—there remains one modest proposal for conservatives to initiate their own inalienable “sit-in” movement at the handout counter and in the voting booth.