The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1960

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A Challenge To Fraternities

The recent IMAC decision is, we are afraid, an example of the short-range view that is so often seen on the campus. Briefly, here is the story. Prompted by the high rate of fraternity men declaring non-affiliation with their respective fraternities, the IMAC thought it necessary to formulate a policy concerning the eligibility of inactives to play for the Independents. Accordingly, the men in question were ruled unable to play for this team.

There are two factors that should be examined at this point. The first is that although the Independents have a seat on the IMAC, it is only one out of thirteen, and it is obvious that the twelve fraternities can control any decision. And there is one other point. It became evident that for the first time, perhaps, the Independents were actually holding their own and even winning some games. On this fraternity-overloaded campus, this seemed to be unthinkable. The easiest thing to do was for the fraternities, through their representatives, to declare the inactives not eligible for the Independent team.

We may be wrong. Perhaps the decision was not based on selfishness, but if it were, we cannot see how a clear conscience can condone it. What of the erstwhile fraternity men who are denied the right to play for their fraternity? Are they to be left without a team? Looks like it. What is wrong with a strong Independent team? Another strong team will result in a stronger intramural program, and this opportunity should not be missed. If a strong athletic team will make for a stronger Independent group as a whole, and we think it will, we're for it.

One of the greatest dangers inherent in a strong system of any kind is that of apathy and false assuredness. This, we think, may be true of the fraternity system here. The advent of a strong outsider can make the complacent system sit up and take notice, and will, we think, result in an all-round improvement. We think the fraternities can stand it.

The Bugbear Didn't Vanish After All

A little dust was stirred up Wednesday. A few brows were furrowed and a few voices were raised in heated discussion. Thursday the dust had settled. The brows were smooth again and the voices had gone.

Wednesday was the day of the Trustee’s meeting here on the campus. It was the day that the DAVIDSONIAN appeared, advocating a joint student-faculty-administration-trustee committee to study the problem of race as regards the admission policies of Davidson College. It was the day that Henry Shue and friends presented a petition to the Trustees signed by over two hundred and fifty students requesting further study on the study of the problem. It was the day that Dave Robinson appeared before the Trustees and presented a student’s view on integration. It was the day the results of the faculty poll were given to this august body.

Wednesday was the day that the Trustees decided to do nothing at all about the matter. Thursday the Trustees were gone and a campus that had been awake returned to its normal state of half-closed eyes.

We talked to Dr. J. McDowell Richards immediately after the Trustees had adjourned for another three months. We asked him what steps had been taken on the race problem. “The Trustees of Davidson College appreciate the concern of the students for the welfare of Davidson College,” he said. “However, no action was taken on this problem. It is my personal opinion that nothing will be done on this matter for over a year.”

This simply means that the statement, “It is not in the best interest of Davidson College to admit Negroes at this time,” is still the official doctrine. Before the meeting of the board, the DAVIDSONIAN stated that it believed this statement was sorely in need of clarification, explanation, and justification. We still feel the same way. We understand that there are certain elements on the board itself that are totally dissatisfied with this statement. We know there are certainly many members of the student body and faculty that find it wholly inadequate. The fact that the College Union was humming with sincere discussion Wednesday evening is proof that Wednesday’s questions did not go for naught. Our desire in presenting the issue was that such discussion would result. We did not pretend to offer a panacea that would dissolve all the unpleasant aspects of this problem. We still hope that the Trustees will set up a joint committee at their May meeting so that this issue may be pursued realistically and so a more meaningful position can be formulated. We feel the fact that this is a Christian College demands that the Trustees consider this matter more fully. We can turn our backs on a problem for just so long. Sooner or later we have to turn around and face it squarely.

—J. H.

An Invitation

One of the strongest comments that we have heard about the Special Edition that was published Tuesday was the complaint that the issue stated only one side of the question, and that the viewpoint was too biased. We would like to make it clear that the issue was in no way intended merely to agitate or to hear ourselves talk. We think that the segregation question deserves and requires thoughtful consideration and discussion. We are eager to present both sides of the issue, however. Our pages are open for anyone who will write a statement of justification of a segregated Davidson. We ask that such articles be submitted to the editor for publication.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charlie Rowe

Associate Editor
Jim Hamilton

Managing Editors
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore

Sports Editor
B. Millner

Feature Editor
Tom Colvin

Assignments Editor
David Jordan

Copy Editor
Russ Showalter

Cartoonists
Ackerman

Advertising Manager
Charlie Rowe

Circulation Mgr.
Albert McClure, Jr.

Ass’t. Business Manager
Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Problems, Problems ........ by Ackerman

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

Writer Laments Campus Theft; Another Levels Fire On IMAC

David Breiten

Dear Editor,

It is with regret that I write this letter and yet, at this time, it seemed the only thing to do. Last weekend, while I was not in my room and while, as usual, my door was unlocked (I had great faith in the Davidson honor system), someone either borrowed or outrageously stole a blanket. The financial difficulty that this will cause is bad enough. What is worse, however, is that the honor system has been violated. In as much as it is still the middle of the winter and cold at night, I would appreciate your publishing this letter in the hopes that either the thief will have a change of heart, or the borrower, a sudden recovery of memory. The blanket was a light brown tweed ST. MARY'S wool,

David S. Breiten

Harold Fisher

Dear Editor:

If an American ever becomes a Communist, even for a day, that action is held against him almost for the rest of his life. On this campus the inactive fraternity man is treated by the IMAC as a Communist is treated by the government. “Once a Communist, always a Communist,” they say, no matter how much he does later to reject it. How much more can a person protest certain actions of a fraternity than by breaking all visible ties with his fraternity? What more can he do to “quit?”

The IMAC has ruled that inactive frat men cannot be Independents. The most amazing thing about this ruling is that a previous decision was reversed when the Independents began winning in sports (an unusual condition), using inactives. Thus far the Independents are undefeated in basketball and handball. The one way to prevent this from recurring was obvious. The inactives were declared ineligible to play ball with the Independents. The Student Body should not support this injustice. Either a reversal of the decision should be enacted, or the name of the organization should be changed to the “Interfraternity Athletic Council.”

Harold Fisher

Why Is The Library Inadequate? Gravely Reports, Offers Ideas

By Allan Gravely

Toward the end of last year I had an experience which is an often repeated one among Davidson College students: not being able to find a certain desired book in the library. Naturally, this stimulated my interest as to why there were not more books in the library, and this article is the end result of my researches into the matter.

REASONS

There are several reasons why the library is small. The most important reason is that many people concerned with the college are of the opinion that an undergraduate liberal arts school needs only a certain basic list of titles patterned after the Harvard list forthe Lamont Library (60,000 volumes), or at the most, enough for Honors research. As for professional research, most professors are not expected to carry on research at Davidson during the school year, but are given summer grants to do their most interesting work elsewhere. Another reason is the generally inefficient handling of library funds by the faculty. While the total amount of money apportioned to a department is known by all the members of that department, there is no system for handling orders and buying of books is conducted at a random, rather disorderly pace; as a result, the total amount of money assigned to a department is never used and a tremendous surplus builds up.

QUOTAS UNMET

The Thompson Fund library money is set up so that it is carried over to the next year if it is not used by the faculty: in the fall of this year approximately eleven thousand dollars of unused money had accumulated over several years due to the simple fact that the faculty had not used up its quotas. A third reason for the smallness of the library is that students seem afraid to use the suggestion box which sits in the right foyer on the main floor. Many times I have heard students curse that they can't find a certain book in the library — when all they have to do, if they really want the book, is to fill out a slip which is easily found at the desk and drop it in the nearby box.

PROBLEMS

What can be done about this situation? First of all, it seems obvious to me that Davidson needs a large library, perhaps eventually 400,000 volumes, because we are located high and dry here in Mecklenburg County with no other large reference or resource libraries at our disposal, and the Interlibrary loan is too slow and costly. If Davidson were located in Chapel Hill or Philadelphia then I would say fine, let’s use their library for our resource materials; but it so happens that Charlotte, a rather Philistine town, is our only close center of learning. Second, faculty research here on the spot should be encouraged by trying to keep up to date in various fields: one reason professors lack enthusiasm for building an outstanding library at Davidson is because they equate research with summer grants to some outstanding library elsewhere, and the poor old Davidson library is equated with containing certain basic information which is meant only for sophomores and freshmen.

STUDENTS MUST ACT

This lack of interest is one reason why a surplus like the above accrues. Third, and perhaps the best way that a fine library can be built here, is for the students to make up their minds to request all books they need for their studies which are not presently in the library: this might result in a deficit in library funds, but, as one administrator of the college says, if you tell the alumni that all the money for books at Davidson has been used and the students are still clamoring for them, money will come pouring in like a deluge.

NO JUSTIFICATION

In our situation there is no justification for the phrase “small undergraduate library” — we ought to have all the worthwhile books we can get our hands on, even if it means building another wing on the library, doubling the library staff, or whatever. Perhaps someone on the faculty or administration with vision and ambition for Davidson will make the library a private crusade, for it is ridiculous for Davidson College to think she can spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on buildings and fraternity houses and neglect the basic tool of the student — books — and still have a fine educational institution. Of course, compared with Catawba College (60,000 volumes), Davidson (75,000 volumes) has a pretty good library.

LIKE ALL GOOD TEACHERS, SHE HAS IN HER BEING A TOUCH OF THE SPIRIT FIRED BY THE DEDICATION OF HER CALLING!

TOIL AND TROUBLE

Rushing Campaign Job For Boosters

BY JOHN STONE

The honorable gentlemen, the Trustees of Davidson College, have departed from the campus after many stormy hours of session. They have enunciated the policies which Davidson is to follow for at least another year. Many are in perfect agreement with their actions; many are not. At present, it does not matter, for nothing will change until they meet again, if they change then. This does not mean that those students who have an honest concern for Davidson College and its future are to quit working. Let those who will continue to work for those ideals they hold dear. But more important, at least for the present, is something that can be undertaken and completed right now. The admissions committee has completed the processing of approximately 150 applications that were found acceptable — and how! These boys represent the top group of applications thus far. These are the boys that can get into any school in the country, often with a scholarship. Davidson normally gets 62% of her applicants who complete the whole round of application. But it is not known exactly how many of this top group we can get. The competition for them is very, very keen. It is true that there will be a good many of these boys who want Davidson because of inheritance or other such factors. But this group is not big enough by itself. All these boys have been carefully screened, and they are the kind Davidson needs. To get them there must be a concerted effort on the part of students, as well as the administration. Dean White has posted lists of these boys in Chambers, and all fraternity presidents have been mailed a copy. What now confronts the student is a rushing campaign. Check these lists and if there are boys from near your home, or boys you know, visit and write to them. The advantages of having students of this calibre at Davidson should be immediately obvious. I don’t know that Davidson needs another organization on campus, but unless I am overlooking someone, I don’t know of an organization that could handle this sort of thing. Anyone interested in a Davidson Booster’s Club?

LETTER TO THE EDITOR:

Critic Assails Special Edition Of Newspaper

Dear Editor,

Perhaps, after two and one-half years at Davidson, it is time for a weary Junior to take quill in hand and publicly express an opinion. Quite amazed and sickened was I to discover and read the “Trustee Special” edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN, which was distributed Tuesday night. To my knowledge, with the single exceptions of the Martin election and inauguration issues, this is the only “extra” which I have seen published — not only was it an “extra,” but it appeared to me to be a mean example of propaganda and pressure politics — directed at attempting to influence the Board of Trustees toward a pro-integration policy. According to my rough calculations, some 264.5, out of a total of 320, column inches in this edition were devoted to these materials, all favoring integration. I do not wish to enter into a public debate concerning the merits or evils of this question; I was, in fact, glad to read a more liberal newspaper — my point is simply that “The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College,” which is supported largely through student fees, should not be so bold as to thus flagrantly support views which do not meet with the approval of a majority of the student body as expressed in a poll, unscientific as it may have been. Especially do I not enjoy seeing our newspaper being utilized as the lowest form of propaganda sheet — with or without student approval.

Tom Watts

NOTICE TO READERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN encourages the intelligent discussion of any issue. The following information is offered to interested students in the hope that challenging discussion and debate will ensue:

(1.) All signed letters to the editor will be published. Letters must be typed and double-spaced, not exceeding 250 words in length. Submit by Wednesday of any week to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C.

(2.) Articles submitted for publication will be considered for clarity, interest and length (preferably 350-500 words). Submit by Wednesday of any week to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218.

Some Helpful Hints:

DEVASTATE YOUR OPPONENTS BY SPECIFIC REFERENCE. (If you believe that Joe Doakes is a liar, support your accusation by recounting a few of his lies.)

DEFINE YOUR TERMS, IF POSSIBLE. (Be careful about abstractions. When you say “Davidson College,” do you mean students, faculty, trustees or all? If you consider study inherently evil, make this fact known when you discuss curriculum improvement.)

USE CLEAR, CONCISE ENGLISH. (Remember that you are not writing an ROTC manual; you are striving to communicate.)