FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

A LOOK AT... SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

‘I'm Not Your Daddy’

WILL THE REAL Coach Tom Stevens please stand up? Mrs. Stevens brought two toddlers to watch the Wildcats practice Tuesday. When it was all over, her little boy ran up to a man in Bermuda shorts and clutched his leg. A flabbergasted Dwight Shoe leaned down to say, “I’m not your Daddy.”

A VOTE of confidence must go out to the varsity for its performance last weekend. Catawba was stopped cold by Dole’s well-oiled defensive machine on its trial run. The Indians could not sustain a single drive. Their only scoring came on a surprise 54-yard pass play. Five Catawba first downs told the story.

PERHAPS the final chapter of another story was written—attendance. Less than 3,000 people saw the game in Charlotte's mammoth Memorial Stadium. Davidson Athletic Director Tom Scott—one of the faithful few—promptly served notice that the Queen City may have forfeited its only college football attraction.

Dole’s Arm Reaches Far—And Near

A YOUNG man said goodbye to the Ole Miss Rebels after his freshman year in 1955. This year he told Uncle Sam the same thing, Bill Dole listening in on the conversation. His name is Joe Jones. He’s a sophomore here. And he’s ineligible to play ‘till next fall.

ANOTHER young man decided to stay home and play for his Dad, William E. Dole Jr., a 215-pound tackle on the freshman team. He made quite a name for himself down the road at North Mecklenburg High School.

WE TOLD you last week about the sign—Basketball Coach—we saw on the door of Charles Driesell’s office. The other day we peeked inside. A carpet, no less.

AND THE pipe-smoking president of the Southern Conference has trimmed his locks, in case you haven’t noticed. Frontis Johnston, dean of the Davidson Faculty, we mean.

Hold Your Horses, Boys

THE ADJECTIVE “big” attached to the coaching change to be announced in January perhaps is misleading. It won’t shake the rafters, by any means.

WORD COMES that a 115-pound sophomore has the boots scared off two mainstays of the Davidson cross-country team. Sterling-Martin, the unicycle rider, is pushing Bill Eckbert and Dave Gilmour for the top position. It's all for the Alma Mater, though.

DURING THE past two years we’ve heard a lot about the lack of communication and cooperation between students and faculty. At the same time, however, we've witnessed a goodly number of the professors at athletic events—in the stands, at the official’s table, on the coach’s bench. Students might do well to appraise their own participation.

Outside The Chinese Wall

HERE FOLLOW excerpts of a report on football problems by Bob Kane, director of athletics at Cornell University:

“Cornell has the largest athletic program in the country, with 21 varsity and 18 freshman sports. We are blessed with a superb plant, many of the finest facilities made possible by the generosity of our alumni... Historically the basic source of revenue for the support of intercollegiate athletics has been football receipts. Lately expenses are multiplying as football income has been diminishing. This creates a budgetary predicament... The big problem is finances. Football is the only breadwinner and there has been a successful effort to de-pressurize it. So it is not now winning nearly its former share of break...

“There is nothing wrong with football. It is a magnificent game which can do important things for this university, as it used to. It brings back more alumni than any other event. It has emotional appeal which is stimulating... I am profoundly disturbed by its fall from importance in our Cornell scene. Football will be a factor in American lives as long as young college boys have muscles and a sense of adventure and daring. It will draw watchers as long as it is played. The number of watchers will depend on how well and how interestingly it is played.

“Our football is planned mediocrity, an anachronism in our otherwise excellence-minded society. Some day perhaps the opportunity to practice and improve will be more advantageous in the Ivy League and crowds will come back.”

Recognition by being in Davidson's 17-7 victory over Catawba last Saturday night in Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium.

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Our first “Wildcat of the Week” for 1960 is Davidson’s sophomore Left Halfback Bob Cordle. The flashy speedster earned this highly instrumental recognition by being in Davidson's 17-7 victory over Catawba last Saturday night in Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium. Picking his way through the Catawba defenses behind some very fine blocking, Bob carried the ball for 100 yards in 20 carries. This yardage included valuable gains in each of the Wildcats' two touchdown drives, as Cordle spearheaded Davidson's offensive attack.

BLINDING SPEED

Although small as Southern Conference halfbacks go—he is only 5’8” tall and weighs 155—Bob converts his main assets, blinding speed and excellent balance, into a top-notch brand of football for the Wildcats. Says Coach Bill Dole, “We are delighted with the fine running job Bob is doing for us. Although he is small of stature, his speed, balance, and ‘smart’ running more than make the difference. I feel that it is only a matter of time until he will be breaking loose for some really long scoring runs for us."

SOPHOMORE TRIED

The new defense-minded brand of ball introduced by the Wildcats this fall necessitated the changing of several experienced backs to the defensive unit and left pressure on untried sophomores. In the hands of such as Bob Cordle the Davidson offense certainly should not suffer.

Bob Scores 100 As Wildcats Pass Test

Bob graduated from Charlotte’s Myers Park High School in 1959 with letters in all four major sports, including two in football. Last year he was one of the outstanding members of the freshman football team and also earned his freshman letter in track. Here he was hampered by bone chips in his ankle which kept him under wraps during the spring football practice. But Bobby Cordle is going full speed now, and it should be good enough to give Davidson football fans quite a few eye-openers during the course of this, the 1960 season.

Series Paper

Spartanburg Is Scene Of Saturday’s Clash

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College football squad travels to Spartanburg, S.C., tomorrow night to face the always scrappy Wofford Terriers. The kickoff, slated for 8:00 p.m., will begin the twenty-fourth gridiron battle between the two schools in a series that began back in 1914. Since that opening contest, Davidson has won 17, lost 5, and tied 1. The Wildcats will be out to avenge last year’s 14-7 loss to the Terriers, a defeat which started Davidson on a seven-game losing streak. The Wildcats finished 1-9 in 1959 after an opening win over the Indians, 42-6.

Twenty-nine men had a hand in the victory. Coach Bill Dole, three days before the game, faced a dilemma. His number one and two fullbacks—Bob McAllister and Carl Hunt—were ailing.Scrambling around for another man, he found Junior Lynwood Mallard, who produced 76 yards and five first downs. The only slip-up came when Catawba's Ronnie Ball surprised everybody midway through the second quarter with his first pass of the game—complete to Marrotte.

Skeptical Of Booters’ Prospects
By JIMMY LEWIS

Davidsonian Sports Writer

With less than two weeks remaining before the first soccer game with Belmont Abbey, Coach Paul Marrotte, alias History Professor Marrotte, has thrown some skepticism on the previously optimistic prospects for this season. With 13 lettermen returning from last year’s squad, “Marrotte's Men” are expected to at least match last year’s 7-3 won-lost record. However, Coach Marrotte emphasizes that “under no stretch of the imagination is this going to automatically be a successful season, simply because we have 12 or 13 lettermen returning. I must say that I’m not particularly overjoyed with the practices so far. We are progressing, but there’s a long way to go before we'll be ready.”

Coach Marrotte also pointed out that although eight starting positions are fairly definite, that doesn't mean that the men who hold them are ready to go. He cites star center forward, Mike Laughlin, as the only player who is performing as well as he did at the end of last season. Marrotte says, “Mike is now playing the best he ever has.” Joe Kelly and George Kundahl were also noted as two who are doing very well in practice. Those men out for soccer include six foreign students. Two of them, Wolfie Mayerhofer of Austria and John Strating of the Netherlands, are expected to crack the starting lineup. Another foreign student, Arnold Kroner, who has just arrived from Germany, looms as a good prospect for the team. Coach Marrotte also states that due to the lack of a coach—Mr. John Kuykendall would make a good one—arrangements are not yet complete for freshman soccer practice. Yet even as Coach Marrotte complains of a coaching deficiency and criticizes some of his players’ performances in practice, one can still detect a distinct tone of optimism in his voice.

won by Davidson, the Wildcats have downed the Terriers 19 times, lost to them thrice, and tied them once. However, Wofford’s three wins have come in the last five years—the most recent Terrier victory being last fall when they nipped the ‘Cats, 27-20, in a homecoming heartbreaker.

LAST WEEK

So, it will be Coach Bill Dole’s young Cats seeking revenge in this year’s game. While Davidson was whipping Catawba last Saturday night, Wofford was being severely beaten by the perennially tough Bears of Lenoir-Rhyne, 30-6. However, that score is no indication of Wofford’s material. Returning from last year’s team, which broke even with a 5-5 record, are 16 lettermen, most of them being shifty backs and hard-nosed ends. One of them—Gary Whitlock, a 178-lb. halfback—has always had a big day against the Wildcats. Depth in the interior line is somewhat of a problem for the Terriers, but they have several big, young boys that need only game experience.

LEARN BY LOSS

The Lenoir-Rhyne game may have provided that needed experience. As Coach Dole summed up the Wofford gridders, “They're big, fast, and can throw that football. This is one of the finest teams Wofford has had in several years.” As for Davidson's strategy and personnel, both should remain about the same as last weekend. Once again, the ‘Cats will rely on a quick offense and an air-tight defense.

ON DEFENSE

The starting defensive unit against Wofford includes Booker Clark and Jennings Snider, ends; Eddie Crutchfield and Bill Salzer, tackles; Dave Lovette and Dick Voorhees, guards; Carl Hunt, Joe Ansley, and Harold Bynum, linebackers; Jerry Sheffield and Grant McCrorie, halfbacks. The offensive unit remains intact. In addition, lots of help is expected from fullback Bob McAlister, who was out last week with injuries. As for other injuries in the Catawba game, Coach Dole gladly reports, “We have recovered from our Saturday night bruises.”

Harriers Three Men Vie For Two Posts
By CARL RUST

Davidsonian Sports Writer

This year the Davidson College cross-country team, cut short of men by graduation, meets a tough eight-game schedule, including Wake Forest, Citadel, and V.P.I. Coach Whittle feels sure that the cross-country men can capture five of these eight meets. The first foe—Pembroke—will be here next Friday.

NO DOUBT NOW

Last year there was considerable doubt whether Eckbert would be able to play. However, it has been confirmed that he will be eligible and ready to go against Pembroke. Along with Eckbert, Whittle is expecting a great deal from David Gilmour. Last year David was tied up with labs and couldn’t get going. But the story has changed and so far this year David has been looking good.

FROSH SHINE

Sterling Martin and Laurence Leafer, the one and two men on last year’s freshman team, are back and both have been doing an exceptionally fine job. Also Thompson, the team captain, and Tom Martin should be a tremendous help this year. All these men will be in there fighting for the first five positions on the team.

THREE FOR TWO

Whittle stated that the number one and two spots are still undecided. The battle to see who gains possession of these spots will be between Eckbert, David Gilmour, and Sterling Martin. Whittle seemed very pleased in his outlook for this season. He said that he has a fine group of boys to work with, and when asked how they were coming along he responded, “The boys are working hard but won't be in top shape for the Pembroke meet. However, they should be ready for Wake Forest since they are making rapid progress.”

L-F Flickerball Kicks Off Monday

Intramural sports get underway with 78 flickerball games. The Intramural Athletic Council held its pre-season meeting Wednesday night, Junior Mike Van Doeren presiding. He introduced IMAC’s new adviser, Coach Joe Hunt, succeeding Heath Whittle. IMAC passed a ruling which requires all referees to be up-to-date on the rules before officiating play.

NINE GAMES LATER

The Wildcats added two touchdowns of their own and an 18-yard field goal by toe specialist Bruce Usher for a 16-7 victory. It ended a long dry spell for Davidson, having lost eight straight games in 16 tries. Quarterback Tee Redding showed the marks of practice. Last year it was not uncommon to hear that Redding, understudy to southpaw Charlie Benson, couldn't pass. He dispelled all doubts Saturday night, hitting Halfback Danny House for 19 yards to set up the Wildcats’ first touchdown. Moments later he pitched one 16 yards to Lou Zirkle in the end zone.

“THE BULLET”

Most exciting from the sidelines was the performance of “The Bullet” Bob Cordle. The speedy sophomore halfback outdanced the Catawba line for 100 yards in 20 carries. The Wildcats racked up 286 yards on the ground all told. Halfbacks Jerry Sheffield and Grant McRorie displayed last year’s dash. Sheffield carried from the two-yard-line for Davidson’s second score. Dole, figuring that his emphasis on defense would require a good punter, polished Center Tom Simpson for the opener. But the Wildcats were forced to kick only three times. Sustaining their control of the ball on several occasions, the ‘Cats moved 80 and 70 yards within seven minutes for their six-pointers.

AS EXPECTED

There was a minimum of mistakes (Dole counted only two) as Davidson played a well-planned, steady game. The team’s forward movement mired down somewhat in the second half, but it was a far throw from their experience in 1950, when the “fourth quarter collapse” earned a letter here.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Freshmen: ‘Let Them Eat Cake’

Davidson town mothers heeded Marie Antoinette’s infamous statement again this year as freshmen ran in the annual Cake Race Tuesday afternoon. Winner Tim Spiro, captured at the right by photographer Gene Wells, holds first prize in his hands like a salt-water mackerel. There were 59 cakes and winners in all. Tim's time—10:29.6—is somewhat off the Cake Race record for the cross-country sprint—8:34.5. Placing near Spiro, in the order in which they finished were Steven Wood, Charlie Rowe, Andy Sale, Chris Juel, Johnny Ariail, Stafford Warren, Charlie Williamson, Tarby Bryant, and Hank Ackren.

GOLF JACKET by LONDON FOG

It’s all the jacket you need! Water and wind repellent... wrinkle resistant. Tailored of Calibre Cloth, an exclusive super blend of Dacron and fine combed cotton. Unconditionally washable... drip-dries ready to go. With convertible English collar that buttons up for rough weather. Color: Sizes: $15.95

RUSH WILSON LTD.