FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1950

A LOOK AT... SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

In The Wake Of Wake

NO APOLOGIES, please. Winston-Salem rationalized our upset cage win over Wake Forest. So did the wire services. And many others.
But the Deacons — on crutches — stand straighter than most teams. Davidson, seeing visions of VPI, simply had more
hustle and desire to win.

Davidson Swimmers Take First Win Over Clemson

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cagers Hit Va. Tech Today

By CARL RUST
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College tankmen, after taking on Clemson and USC, meet the VMI Cadets here on Monday. Yesterday, the Wildcats
toppled Clemson, 62-32, for their first victory of the season. The Cadets are extra strong in the butterfly and the
backstroke, and are nobody's pushovers in the other events.

Varsity Tops Deacons; VMI And Catawba Win

By JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Wildcats, now bearing an 0-1 conference record, went to Blacksburg from Lexington today endeavoring to improve their Southern Conference
footing in a bout with VPI that may well prove to be one of the biggest hurdles of the season.

AS THEY COME

Coach Lefty Driesell is hesitant about any predictions for future games. “I don't like to look too far ahead,” he
says. “We're going to play them one at a time. One at a time.”

Before the game with Catawba he frankly warned his cagers that Catawba had a good ball team. And then as
the Cats dropped their heart-twitcher, 54-52, Tuesday night, Driesell’s cagers knew what he meant.

DAVIDSON did its homework for the opener. To see it all you have to weigh in the air-tight training rules,
the practice sessions punctuated by outbursts from a coach who wants to win. And you have to place the final
praise on Lefty Driesell, dynamic and positive, a winner in his first college game. Lefty's going to be lucky to
hold him for long.

Considering VPI's stronghold position in the conference this year and the Cats’ proved potential against Wake Forest, the Tech game
is a decisive step. Coach Shoe said, “If the boys aren't doing a good job, it could result in a
long day.”

Last night, Davidson's Bill Jarman sank 22 points and Jerry Bussell had 14 as the Wildcats blew a 54-47 lead
and lost to the VMI Keydets, 72-68, in their first conference game. Bussell led late in the game which brought
the score to 65-59, but there was no holding him for long.

Jack Rose won the diving competition and Tom French took a first place in the 200 backstroke with Chase Hunter
second. Captain Tom Hudgins has been looking extra good and Shoe hopes that he will break his own record before
mid-season.

The Betas rolled up 51 points, Branch and Captain Tom Hudgins won two firsts for Davidson—Branch in the 100-yd. freestyle
and individual medley and Hudgins in the 220 and 440 freestyle (Carter Mebane placing second in both these events).

The Cadets have been practicing since the early part of September. Today the Cats met U.S.C. at Columbia.

Looking over Davidson's personnel, Shoe stated that all the boys have been working hard and have a good attitude. “I
hope to have a winning season and with the hard work and good attitude of these boys we should have
one,” Shoe said.

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

This Wednesday Davidson's wrestling team journeys to Chapel Hill to take on a strong University of North Carolina team in
hopes of avenging a 16-14 defeat at the hands of the Tarheels in 1959.

SPORTS SLATE

VARSITY BASKETBALL
Dec. 12—Catawba at Kannapolis.
Dec. 14—Furman at Davidson.

FROSH BASKETBALL
Dec. 14—Furman at Davidson.

CROSS-COUNTRY
Dec. 17—William and Mary at Williamsburg.

When the final buzzer sounded in Johnston Gymnasium last Saturday night, 2,000 screaming fans erupted onto the court to hoist
the victorious Davidson cagers onto their shoulders.

Perhaps the happiest of those night before.SWIMMING | (| K if rey, 4 | ence meet and landed a spot
on the eight-man All-Con- | hoisted giant killers was Danny — Carrell responded beautifully: | Dec. 29 & 30—Laurel Invi-
Pec. 13—VMI at Davidson. | “% Nae ference team. Meet trophies were given to Martin, Bill | Carrell, a 5-11
sophomore guard ly. He set up plays that time) | NJURED: ALEXANDER | tation Tourney at Laurel, Jan. 13—William &
Mary | I Eckbert, Gilmour and Larry Leafer, who finished 16th, | from Louisville, Ky. You see, and again gave
teammates easy) . . . they needed him. | Miss. (Miss. Southern, N. at Davidson. 4 iniatis abananie sda ake
22nd and 25th, respectively. Carrell had just played his first shots. He limited Hart to 15} Coach Charlie Parker expects
| Denes State. £0 WRESTLING |: abiding ‘hatred’ for ‘the bottom crust 5 | basketball game, and had en- points.
And he tossed in eight|,..._. 2 j exas State, & enn Dec. 14-UNC: at Chapel | of "ye bread. There
is no particular Soccer Notice engineered the Wildcat victory. markers, including a valuable se N< = have a ect og
| State). Hill . ¥ 1apel | reason for making his point, except FROM DR. MARROTTE, who has just resigned
as For his outstanding perform- free throw in the last two min 1°, ino oe i agin Pag the |
Jan. 4—William & Mary at Jan. 12—The Citadel -at uae tT aie a Davidson soccer coach: “All students interested in
ance, Carrell is our “Wildcat utes a ta oT ae S| Riieiiians pg er ok ' ad Ge ee tn
eld ae playing on the soccer squad next season are asked to of the Week.” LAUDS SUPPORT | puke this
tr Wednesday 14 pin |. either, but I have been thinking of meet in Chambers, 319, on Wednesday, Dec. 14,
at 10:15, A STOPPER Carrell, who says he “felt) 1. jon fared cee el jt act Leneaeaaaie lort Lei lerdal
is a.m. Please notify Captain Joe Kelley or Prof. Marrotte| Coach Lefty Driesell tabbed great” when he was told to}
Pig e aeiian assert of the that is. oes Ot Bus ativan aia if you cannot attend.” bow —— Binge
rig mid- _ ge age “All of ~ aie. i pind in an Lauderdale. (The j idle guard only a
few minutes players really appreciate the |° 2 hamber of Commerce »\:!] hate me; FINALLY, we would like to make
2 sng re pela to the tip-off. This as- fine support of the students. | Davidson's sophomore-stud- ye lerdale ing
Be rail sy cheering leaders at the Wake. | basketball cheerleading. Student overwhelming. Forest game, only one for Catawb cheering
has been spontaneous. recruitment of a group of No School girls to cheer at home quite like the freshness and
vitality MERRY CHRISTMAS! Holland Leads Frosh But there were no a: For the most part, We'd like to see the
rth Mecklenburg High | mes. There's nothing | y of a high school lass. | The talent-heavy freshman team of
Coach Joe Hunt | goes in search of its second victory here Wednesday | night against Furman’s frosh at 6
p.m. Offsetting a varsity setback , Tuesday, the ‘Kittens rapped "Untouchables" Wingate Junior College, bite Six-seven Center Terry Hollan sank
26 points while controlling Top League both backboards and Guard Ly-| man Dillion ripped the cords| The Davidson College ROTC
for 8 of 11 field goal attempts in | howling team, nicknamed “The the first half, winding up with |
Untouchables,” is currently | wg tg uh lost their opener tu’ leading the Piedmont Bowling | e frosh lost their
ae ees powerful Wake Forest, 75-67, ag ea ge in anid playing a close game all the touchables’ high point
man. | "Bi Beerman, 65, Mike — whe poe high ens i Howard Ar-/0n last year’s team, recently buckle mae
- the first five. | edged out Bob Gregory. The lat- Hunt said, “I am very well ter Gregory is
a sophomore and pleased with progress shown by only student on the team. the team, especially Dillon, Hol- The Untouchables
bowl every land and Arbuckle. Our main | Wednesday night at the Frye’s weakness is defense, as we | Lake
Lanes on the Popular Tent looked ragged at times against Road, just off Highway 29, near Wingate. Concord. The Piedmont
| “I think we have some sound ie compecss @ industrial! eae) business teams from Cabarrus ballplayers and I’m looking
for-| and Mecklenburg counties. ward to the remainder of the| This year's edition of the Un- season”—16 more games. touchables
includes the two Hunt spent most of last week scouting and recruiting. Dean captain, Capt. Hampton, Col. White helped out
in his ab- Adams, Sgt. Penley, Sgt. Crump and Capt. Pierce. ‘We're sorry we played so| ded team wrestled well
and was in the match all the way to the final decision. David- son’s points were garnered by Tom Wright
in the 123-Ib. class, who pinned his opponent in 3 minutes, 37 seconds; Charlie Trask, who took the 137-lb. weight;
Cliff Thompson, who gained victory in: the 177-lb. division; and Ed Peel who wrestled to a draw in the 130-lb.
class. Earlier in the evening David- }son’s freshmen had lost to the Baby Blue Devils by 27-3 margin. Heavyweight Tom
Day tallied the ‘Cats only score, but freshman Coach Kelton expects “vast improvement” before the U.N.C. match. Parker singled out
Wright, Peel, Thompson, and John Cameron (heavyweight) as being particularly outstanding for the 'Cats, who were weakened by the loss
of Jim Alexander, who will be out until after Christmas with a dislocated shoulder. The U.N.C. match will be the
last for the Wildcats before the signment meant that Carrell would have to call the plays and defend Alley Hart,
an experienced senior who had hit 14 of 21 shots against Florida the terrible against Catawba, but we're going to
bounce back this weekend and then run Catawba off the court Monday night.” a twenty thousand collegians descend on this
peaceful community and take it apart, piece by piece. They call it Spring Vacation, but it’s more like amateur night
at Cape Canaveral. holidays. Davidson will meet | ©. | The Citadel and West Virginia in a big wrestling weekend
here on January 12 and 14 to get their post-holiday season under way. se abi HO Toss . MEET YOUR
FRIENDS AT THE a ¢ - (= f W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING BEST Davidson's rifle team
its record to 3-2 here today, defeating Presbyterian, 1376-1370. straight day. He shot 279 | night as the Wildcats walloped
Wake Forest in an unscheduled They capture Florida and throw the Keys away. But I shouldn't joke not tile people
are holding .mass pra meetings for an early hurri- ‘ on i ere > bo are And { n iris
m v« them. 1 ui , 4 a t ol ‘ | 1 t ! i ; snd hote! ll
of nn, « 1 full « m, | is them dat it t nan It ie “ea in life that
int . ¥ sheet a — 1? must have. been thinking-of bathing COACH DRIESELL looks on as his cagers clasp
hands be- But’ mostly, it’s the girls. fore the Wake Forest game. Team effort paid off for the ‘Cats Girls
in love, girls in trouble, bright in a 65-59 upset. | girls with a future, not-so-bright past, rich girls in
the lap | girls in any lap, girls of every size e and a It isn't any wonder where the
boys are.” | And things. that happen are wacky and wild and wicked and warmly wonderful “where the boys are.”
Someone should make a movie For Mom or Girl Friend tit. Hey me did! M-G-M it. “Where The Boys Are.”
starring Dolores Hart, George Hamil- e ect ouse |} ton, Yvette Mimieux, Jim Hutton, Barbara Nichols, Paula Prentiss, with Frank
Gorshin and introducing popu- lar recording star Connie Francis in her first screen role. You Vi eA want to see°<!!
the th Pra as . Ww that happen “Where The Boys Are.” Ba acdar ~ SY @ Caio a iad
on sy i Metro-Goldwyn-.faver a 7" presents ) “WHERE THE BOYS ARE” ‘ A Euterpe production : From Our Quality
Collection in Cine pe anid ie : eo : . = recnpiay by George W. 4 For Christmas Ssteiseonts Se
Glendon, Swarthout. Directed by Henry Levin. “oe us Ison ° match in Winston-Salem.
