PAGE FOUR — At the President’s desk . . .

Leonard Hunchucker: Singer, Philosopher
By RAN SHAFFNER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

“The individual should stand for what he thinks is worthwhile,” said Leonard, dusting the top of a brown mahogany filing cabinet in the President's office. “That's my philosophy of life."

Leonard Hunchucker, the Chambers janitor, was, he says, “born here, raised here, and likes it here.” He attended Shaw University in Raleigh for two years where he studied religious education. A trustee of Reeves Temple Church, he is director of the choir there and does quite a bit of singing even in his daily work. “You'll hear mostly spirituals,” he remarked, “or you may hear rock ‘n roll, but very little.” Leonard began to hum softly and dusted around the window frames.

“You've been here for some time,” I began. “What trends have you noticed in the college?”

Leonard thought awhile and re-dusted the mahogany cabinet. “Well, the spirit here has fallen down. I guess we don’t have what you'd call a winning team. I mean I’m trying to tell you ask me. But the spirit is greatly down.

“I’m a music man myself, and some may differ; but this ‘O Hail Davidson’—why back then every student knew the song, and you'd hear it, too. And just because the cheerleaders stopped, the stands didn’t stop yelling. You'd come back from a game and still talk about it, and you’d race to the Sunday paper to find out what the writer had to say about it.”

“What's happened to this spirit?” I probed.

“So goes time, so goes the human man,” he answered sententiously. He emptied an ashtray in the metal trashcan by the door, left the room momentarily, and returned. He moved a paper tray and swished his dust cloth over the waxed-glass tabletop. I watched him intently working and singing softly to himself.

“How is it you manage to keep so cheerful?” I commented.

“Well, that’s my work. I don’t try to let anything worry me. A person who's happy, I think, has got a better look on life anyway. And why let something worry you? That's why the asylums are so full. You don’t want to let it get to the place where it’s going to affect you. Things come to pass. It’s going to be that way,” he mused in Methodist-adopted Presbyterianism.

“And I disapprove of this panic button, this worry over exam cramming,” he went on. “I'd just as soon see a man with a high school education with common sense than see a man with a whole lot of book learning in his head and no common sense. It would never happen if we'd keep up from day to day. And one of the main losses in college is the student sleeping in class.”

“You mentioned you were in Korea for four years,” I reminded. “Do you remember any particular war experience you had?”

He scratched his head with his cloth. “I remember particularly the time on Hill 214, 17 miles north of the 38th parallel, near Heartbreak Ridge, you know. I was wounded there.”

“How?” I pressed.

“A hand grenade thrown by a Chinese. I was a machine gunner at that time. That would explain the hand grenade. I got a purple heart for it, though. An Italian friend of mine received four when I got my one. Sort of took something out of receiving mine. Course, he received his lying down. I got mine standing up,” he finished with a laugh.

AND UNIVERSITY SHOP
For you... the very latest in hats. Come in and browse. India Madras Bermuda shorts, were $9.95 NOW REDUCED TO $7.95

MADRAS for your spring apparel... the very smart India Madras. We have a most complete selection of India Madras and other Ivy Summer Clothing and furnishings, including the India Madras sport coats, were $35.00 NOW REDUCED TO $29.95

THE LABEL OF DISTINCTION

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Noted Poet Will Present College Literary Award

The Vereen M. Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing will be presented by William Morris Meredith of the Breadloaf School of Creative Writing on Friday, May 6, 1960. The award was established by friends and relatives of Vereen M. Bell, '32, who at his death in the Philippines in 1944, had already been recognized as an outstanding writer on Southern life. The contest is open to students of Davidson College and is administered by the members of the English Department of Davidson College.

William Morris Meredith will be the speaker and will present the Vereen Bell Award during Chapel on May 6. A native of New York City, Mr. Meredith attended secondary school in New England and received his Bachelor’s degree from Princeton University.

MEREDITH SPEAKS

His first volume of poetry, Love Letter from an Impossible Land, appeared in 1944 while he was still in the Navy. It is a volume in the “Yale Series of Younger Poets” and contains an introduction by Archibald MacLeish. After World War II Mr. Meredith returned to Princeton University where he was both a teacher and a scholar. He studied as a Woodrow Wilson Fellow and as a Resident Fellow in Creative Writing and was assistant to Richard Palmer Blackmur, the famous literary critic and scholar.

POETRY PRIZES

Ships and Other Figures in 1948 and The Open Sea and Other Poems in 1958 along with his earlier poetry have won him three prizes from Poetry Magazine, the Hudson Review fellowship in Poetry in 1956 and such praise as the following from The New York Herald Tribune Book Review: Mr. Meredith is a scholar and a gentleman—to these characteristics it (his poetry) owes its virtues. His book is compact of learned and literary allusions, nice discriminations, courteous sympathies... His technical proficiency is unmistakable.”

After the presentation of the Vereen Bell Award, Mr. Meredith will remain on campus for the Writers’ Conference held by Sigma Upsilon on Saturday, May 7.

Great Issues Series Views Summit
(Continued From Page One)

blocking progress in the area of disarmament and nuclear test bans. Mr. David deBoinville, Regional Information Officer for the British Embassy in Washington, represented the British viewpoint. He observed that the Summit conference may resemble the imminent Republican national convention in that both groups will have trouble finding something pleasant to talk about. Mr. deBoinville warned against too much optimism and stated that the conference would be one of a series of summits, and not an outstanding peak.

He said, “The bargaining position is compromise,” but also expressed wariness about the popular phrase ‘tensions.” Britain, he asserted, is seeking to return to normal trade relations, normal freedom of communication, and normal internal behavior. He concluded by saying that negotiations are a search for common ground, and that the May conference is a start in the right direction.

France was represented by an attache from the French embassy in Washington, Mr. Jacques DuPont. Mr. DuPont said that France will accept any reasonable disarmament proposal, if and only if it includes provisions for the cessation of manufacturing of nuclear devices, the destruction of present stockpiles, and a banOn the development of nuclear weapons, he pointed out that the great difficulty was a control and inspection system to enforce such a program. Concerning Germany, Mr. DuPont stated that the issue, basically, is reunification, and that the Berlin crisis was brought about artificially by Mr. Khrushchev. Mr. DuPont's main point was that there should be a real concern for mankind in our “relaxation of efforts.” Consequently, he urged further aid to underdeveloped countries. In conclusion, Mr. DuPont reiterated the British proposal — the normalization of the world situation. The final speaker was Mr. DuPont.

Friday A.M. May 20 P.M. Saturday A.M. May 21 P.M. Monday A.M. May 23 P.M. Tuesday A.M. May 24 P.M. Wednesday A.M. May 25 P.M. Thursday A.M. May 26 P.M. Friday A.M. May 27 P.M.

ROTC 12, 22, 32, 42

FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1960

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE — MAY 1960

Sixth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday First hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday First hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Fourth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday Fourth hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Third hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Third hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday Second hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday Second hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Fifth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

Classes for second semester close May 19—12:50 P.M. Morning examinations begin at 9:00 A.M. Afternoon examinations begin at 2:00 P.M.

Helmut Sonnefeldt, an intelligence and Research Specialist with the United States Department of State Office of Research and Analysis for the Sino-Soviet Bloc, presented the United States position. Concerning disarmament, Mr. Sonnefeldt cited three major difficulties. First, a nuclear test ban cannot be enforced without elaborate controls. Second, total disarmament is necessary to completely solve the problem. Third, the Soviets want disarmament in theory, but offer no way to get at it. He pointed out that the Soviet Union has refused to pool its efforts with the Western powers in aiding underdeveloped countries. The United States has refused to sign a non-aggression pact with the Soviets, he continued, because such a pact could be used to undermine the West's defenses. Mr. Sonnefeldt concluded by pointing out that every lasting agreement between the East and the West was negotiated on lower levels, while all summit agreements have broken down. Following the panel's presentation, a brief question-answer session was held, which was followed by adjournment to individual discussions.

Mr. Hershell Johnson, former ambassador to Brazil and past delegate to the U.N. Security Council, was also present at the meeting.

WE Installs Pope As New President

Officers for the Davidson College Westminster Fellowship, who were elected on April 6, were officially installed at a special meeting of the group on Tuesday night. Those installed were: Sam Pope, president; Philip Arnold, vice-president; and Tom Ellis, secretary-treasurer. Committee chairmen also took office at this meeting. Knox Abernethy assumed the chairmanship of the Study Group and Ecumenical Relations. The study group selects a book of religious interest and presents a series of discussions on it during the year. The Ecumenical Relations group strives for more worldwide Christian emphasis. Glenn Thomason was installed as the Work Project chairman. This group selects worthy service projects for the W.F. to perform. Bert Keller took over the Spiritual Life Committee, which is for the purpose of encouraging personal devotions. John Williams was made head of the Membership Committee, which is mainly concerned with freshmen. Chairmen of these various committees and the officers make up the local W.F. Council. Bert Keller was elected Moderator of the Westminster Fellowship for the Synod of North Carolina at the April 4 meeting of the Synod. Keller, a junior, has the job of presiding over the work of the Synod Council, which holds conferences and coordinates work on the local levels. Davidson's representatives to the Synod Council, besides Keller, are Sam Pope and John Williams.

Alumni College Graduates Term Program A Success

The second Alumni College was held the end of last week, April 7, 8, and 9. Although the number of alumni attending was somewhat less than expected, it was termed a success by Mr. Robert J. Sailstad, Assistant to the President. Each of the returning alumni had a choice of five sequences of special courses, “America’s Historical Heritage,” “Science, Mathematics, and You,” “Literature Today and Yesterday,” “Philosophy and Religion,” and “Your Community and Your Business in the 1960s... Economics, Psychology, and Political Science,” which they took during three two-hour periods. Dr. Hugh Holman, Kenan Professor of English at the University of North Carolina, gave for all the alumni two lectures, entitled “The Place of the Liberal Arts in Contemporary Culture” and “Education as a Search for Language,” both of which have been mimeographed and are available from Mr. Sailstad. At the graduation luncheon, each alumnus was given the degree of Bachelor of Continuing Education. They were unanimous in expressing their desire for an Alumni College every year and were well pleased with the challenging courses offered and were glad to get a chance to see the campus and socialize with friends in college and in the community. Mr. Sailstad said that it was possible that future Alumni Colleges will be held in the summer with the availability of the air-conditioned Cunningham and Dana buildings, when it would be possible for alumni to bring their wives and children. This would allow the alumni and their wives to attend classes while their children would be entertained in a sort of summer camp setup.

Dr. Marrotte stated afterwards that the meeting was highly successful and that he was pleased both with the size of the audience and with the presentations by the panel members.

The following professors will have open house for the student body after vespers Sunday night: Brown, Kelton, McCutchan, Currie, Labbia, Rauliff, Daggy, Scott, Evans, Lloyd, Staples, Fleming, Lumsden, Watts, Griffin, Marrotte, Whittle, Pilz.

BULLETIN!

THE DAVIDSONIAN will hold a meeting Monday afternoon at 5 p.m. in the newspaper office in the Union (second floor) for any freshman interested in writing for the paper. Previous experience is not necessary, but some writing ability is needed. The staff will be glad to work with anyone who would like to be a reporter.

Kannapolis’ Leading Theatres

GEM

TODAY and SATURDAY

MONDAY thru SATURDAY

“HOME FROM THE HILL” CinemaScope and Color Robert Mitchum Eleanor Parker George Peppard George Hamilton

SWANEE

TODAY and SATURDAY also SATURDAY LATE SHOW MONDAY thru WEDNESDAY

“HELLBENT FOR LEATHER” CinemaScope and Color Starring Audie Murphy Felicia Farr Stephen McNally