PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1960

Program Slated By Concert Band

The Concert Band under the direction of Frank West will present its first formal concert of the season at 8:15 p.m. November 15, in Chambers Auditorium. The program is open to the public and admission is free.

The 40-piece band is composed of selected musicians from the student body and its members hail from a dozen Eastern states. The musicians have earned and maintained an enviable reputation among college bands from Philadelphia to New Orleans. The organization makes an annual Spring Tour each year featuring the best in band literature and top soloists.

Conductor West will lead the group in selections by Vaughan-Williams, Wagner, and Handel. “The Finale” from Tschaikovsky’s Fourth Symphony will be included. Of special interest will be the “Outdoor Overture” by Aaron Copland, one of America’s top composers. Following the concert, the Band will be honored by a reception in the ballroom of the College Union.

Mrs. J. B. Huntington, Hostess, stands outside the south entrance of the Davidson College Guest House. Before the large two-story brick building was remodeled in 1941, it housed the college library.

Guest House: Center For College Visitors

By FRED HARRISON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

A period of two months in the spring of 1956 as Hostess of the Guest House has led to four years at Davidson for Mrs. J. B. Huntington. Throughout the year, Mrs. Huntington welcomes a succession of campus visitors — parents of students, speakers, young ladies, and scholarship applicants in the early spring. The empty rooms of the old building early in the week give no hint of the full house that can be expected for a big weekend.

When asked about her four years at Davidson, Mrs. Huntington described them as “perfectly delightful.” “I have enjoyed meeting the many different guests and making interesting contacts,” she remarked.

Mrs. Huntington was born in Asheville and still finds time to return to the mountain country. She studied English and Music at Meredith College in Raleigh before she was married. Besides studying music history, Mrs. Huntington likes to play the piano and does so by ear.

In the summer when the campus is almost deserted, Mrs. Huntington enjoys reading. She is especially interested in biographies and historical novels, and last summer she read the Harvard Classics collection. When August comes around, Mrs. Huntington finds time to take a few weeks off to return to Asheville to visit her four grandchildren. She also has two grandchildren in Michigan.

As she pointed out the high ceilings and large windows in the reception room, Mrs. Huntington recounted a short history of the Guest House. The brick building was constructed in 1918 and was used for a number of purposes — most recently as the college library. In 1941, after the Grey Memorial Library was completed and the books were moved, the building was remodeled to serve as a Guest House to offer parents and other guests overnight or weekend accommodations. The Guest House has seven bedrooms and three dormitory rooms besides the apartment for the hostess, and at present has a capacity of 35 people, but cots can be brought in to accommodate a larger number.

Esquire Comments On Cumming Novel

The December issue of “Esquire” magazine features excerpts from the unfinished novel by Samuel Beckett.

Students Gather To Honor Martin, Team

The student body held an informal assembly during chapel period this morning to honor President Martin on his 50th birthday and to cheer the football Wildcats as they left for Lehigh. Meeting at 10:10 a.m. in front of Chambers, a crowd of students gathered around a huge cake and sang “Happy Birthday” with the Pep Band accompanying. President Martin stood on the Chambers balcony with Student Body President Henry Shue and thanked everyone for the program. (He had been meeting with Davidson’s Board of Visitors inside). Afterwards, a series of pep calls were made for the Wildcats and Coach Bill Dole, tackle Bill Salzer, and halfback Jerry Sheffield were asked to speak.

Postpone “Waiting For Godot”

“Waiting for Godot,” originally scheduled for November 21, has been postponed. Instead, the drama group will perform three modern one-act comedies plus a two-minute interlude on the open date. Although the drama group has not selected lead parts for these plays, much of the planning for the production has been accomplished. The Vagabonds will present “Waiting for Godot” at a later date, January 11 and 12. The three comic plays which will be presented on either November 30 or December 1 are: “It Shouldn't Happen to a Dog” by Wolf Mankowitz, “Passion, Poison, and Petrifaction” by G. B. Shaw, and “If Men Played Cards As Women Do” by George S. Kaufman. In addition, the players will present a two-minute interlude, “The Tridget of Greva,” by Ring Lardner.

The first, “It Shouldn't Happen to a Dog,” is a seriocomic treatment of the story of Jonah which departs from the traditional account. “Passion, Poison, and Petrifaction” could be due to the illness of the leading man, Dillard. After the presentation of these three plays, the Vagabonds will begin work on “The Second Shepherd's Play,” a medieval English drama, to be presented on or about December 15.

Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Threlkeld
Johnston
Cumming
Lammers
Frey
Lester
Ghigo
Lord
Horton
Minter
Pierce
Plott
Puckett
Purcell
Rhodes
Schenck

Council Votes To Change Frosh Regulations, Court

The Court of Control was for the second week the topic of discussion at the entire Student Council meeting Monday night. The Council decided to recommend this week that the posts of Freshman Adviser and Judge of the Court of Control be combined. The motion to incorporate the duties of Freshman Adviser and Judge of the Court of Control was passed in contrast to last week's action. Then the Student Council decided to make no changes in the physical make-up of the Court. But after reconsideration, the Council felt that the only way to achieve their aim of making the Court “dignified, firm, and rigorous” was to change its traditional make-up.

The new Adviser and Judge would be elected in the manner that the present Freshman Adviser is. The Adviser is now elected in the spring by the rising senior class from its ranks. The Freshman Adviser is a voting member of the Council. Also, the members of the Court would be appointed by the Council as it is at present.

There was much discussion as to who would be the members of the Court. No motion was passed on this subject, but several alternatives were considered. Among these were to select the members of the Court from the Student Council or from the orientation group leaders or the hall counselors.

The council voted to remove from the Freshman Regulations the regulation forbidding freshmen to walk on the grass of the campus. Also, the regulation requiring the attendance of freshmen at all home athletic contests would be to require attendance only when the freshmen are on campus.

The Council considered a number of other points in its continuing discussion of the Court of Control. This discussion will probably last for at least two more weeks. The Council also considered extending the period of effect for the Freshman Regulations in the light of Sophomore Rush. The Council planned to give the Court clear disciplinary powers, but has not as yet considered specific punishments. The intent of this revision is to make the Court both a disciplinary and advisory body.Visory institution. Henry Shue said that work on the revision and attempt to find an accurate, up-to-date version of the constitution was progressing satisfactorily. Jack Taylor and John Packer, members of the Council, will attend the Interim Council of the State Student Legislature at Duke University in Durham, N.C., Sunday. This Council will prepare final plans for a model assembly, somewhat similar to the various state legislatures, to be held in early December.

Debating Group Makes Plans For Second Team

Davidson College’s expanding debate group is making plans for the team’s first local appearance. Professor Drake, faculty advisor to the debating group, is trying to organize a second debate team, expanding the present group to two full teams and two alternate teams. Tentative members of this new team are Lou Allen, Lenox Baker, John Rankin, and either R. H. Keiter or H. M. Fisher.

OPEN TOURNAMENT

It is hoped that this team will be organized before December 9. If so, Davidson will have two full teams representing them in the Southeastern States Open Tournament at Appalachian State Teachers College, in Boone. Each of the debating teams has been practicing separately. In future practice sessions, however, they will practice together, so that the affirmative of one team may be argued against the negative of the other, and vice-versa.

MOCK DEBATE

The debating group hopes to have a mock debate in assembly between now and the Open Tournament in Boone. Professor Drake hopes to put on a full debate soon. Of this, he says: “We need more than anything else to stand up and talk before an audience of some size.” As announced in a previous issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, the debate team will attend the 12th Annual Invitational Debate Tournament at Florida State University, February 17 and 18. This will be the group's big trip of the year. On March 9, 10, and 11, the team will attend the 29th Annual South Atlantic Forensic Tournament at Lenoir Rhyne College. Professor Drake is looking for another match for the latter part of March or the first part of April. He has written the coach at Lenoir Rhyne and has asked him to bring their team up to Davidson, if possible, for a debate meet. Professor Drake says of the debate team: “The boys seem enthusiastic and ready to work hard. Mr. Elliot and I are very pleased with the way they are showing up. We are pleased with the results of the Wake Forest meet and see no reason why they shouldn’t do as well, if not better, in the meets to come.”

Bob Blake's Band Plays “Smooth” Music, No R & R

By ED RUDERT
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“There is such a potential of musicians at Davidson, it was inevitable that a dance band should be formed here,” said Bob Blake, a senior from Abbeville, S.C. Blake has formed at Davidson a band which, along with another group at Mooresville, are known as the “Men of Music.” Blake plays lead alto sax, and John Oehler and a man who comes in from Charlotte play the other saxes. Gaines Grantham and another musician from Charlotte are the trumpets. Dick Merchant is on piano, and Raymond Weeks on bass. Price Caldwell is the trombonist, and the drummer is from Mooresville.

“We have jobs booked in this part of North Carolina and some in South Carolina. We have a few weekends left open, some Friday nights,” commented Blake. “We have dates at some high school dances, Memorial Nurses Hospital, and a fraternity function. You see,” he stated, “basically this band has been in existence since the spring of this year. Things have really been shaping up since we first started. That was a rough job, that first one. We've changed a few things since then; we have all new red coats to give the band a little color. We just play smooth music,” Blake stressed, as he leaned back in his chair. “The style I like to try to create is just an ‘easy to dance to’ type of music. We don’t do any rock and roll. It's more of a big band style. You see, we play mainly at large dances or parties for middle-aged people or young married couples who want that kind of music. We do mostly stock arrangements of most of the standard tunes. However, we use a few arrangements that Dick Merchant and I have done together.” Blake mentioned that the members of the band were chosen for their ability and because they all like to play. “Interest and a desire to play are what hold a band together,” he said.

Stu’s Explaining How Machines Will Some Day “Outtalk” People

Los Angeles area. As a pioneer in this new data transmission field, Stu predicts data processing machines will some day do more Long Distance “talking” than people. Stu contacted 12 other companies before joining Pacific Telephone. “I don’t think there’s any limit to where a man can go in the telephone business today. Of course, this isn’t the place for a guy looking for a soft touch. A man gets all the opportunity he can handle right from the start. He’s limited only by how well and how fast he can cut it.” If Stu’s talking about the kind of opportunity you're looking for, just visit your Placement Office for literature and additional information.

“Stu” Smith graduated from Southern Cal with a powerful yen for excitement. His kind of excitement — Engineering. He got what he bargained for (and a little more) when he joined Pacific Telephone. One of Stu’s early assignments was to find out how existing Long Distance networks could be used to pipeline high-speed “conversations” between computers in distant cities. The fact that he did a fine job did not go unnoticed. Today, four years after starting his telephone career, Senior Engineer Stuart Smith heads a staff of people responsible for telegraph and data transmission engineering in the huge Los Angeles area.

The comedies are expected to be presented in the dome of Chambers at 8:15 p.m. on the 21st. As in the plays which have been performed earlier in the year, the Vagabonds will carry out direction, acting, costuming, and scenery for the plays.

BMOC

*Big Man On Campus—yea man! He treats the gals to Coke. Who can compete with charm like that? So if you’re 5'0" and a little underweight, remember—you don’t have to be a football hero to be popular. Just rely on the good taste of Coke. Put in a big supply today!

Lead parts will be chosen for the comedies on Sunday evening the 13th after Vespers.

“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive, and imaginative men we can possibly find.”

BE REALLY REFRESHED

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Frederick R. Kappet, President The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, N.C.

American Telephone & Telegraph Co. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES