PAGE FOUR

Dormitory Scheduled for July Completion

Davidson's newest dormitory, a four-floor structure costing $375,000, is rapidly taking shape near Patterson Fraternity Court. It is scheduled for
completion by July.

Tragic Death Takes Professor's Son

Edward Chandler Cumming, 26, son of Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming of Davidson, died suddenly last week as a
result of an unknown poison accidentally mixed with his food. His death occurred near Silva, North Carolina, where he had
retired to write a novel of contemporary life.

Cumming fell ill shortly after supper on Friday, February 5. His wife Patricia drove two miles to the nearest telephone
and called an ambulance, which picked her up on the way to the mountain cabin. In the meantime, she had
also become violently ill. Cumming died shortly after the ambulance reached the cottage.

Their two daughters, Julie, 2, and Suzanna, eight months, appeared unaffected by the swift-striking poison. His wife, under sedation for
several days, is recovering. Cumming, a member of Phi Kappa, was a Magna Cum Laude graduate of Harvard University. He
had studied in Paris under Fulbright and Rotary International fellowships. His wife, also a member of Phi Beta Kappa, was
graduated from Radcliffe College.

NEW DORMITORY

Construction of the new dormitory (unnamed at present) is moving along on schedule and should be completed by the scheduled
completion date, July 1,” said Mr. Robert Currie, business manager for the college, in a recent interview. At the present
time almost all of the structural and exterior work has been completed, leaving most of the interior portion to be
worked on.

The four-story, red brick structure located between Belk Dormitory and the Fraternity Court will house 124 students and is being
built at a cost of approximately $375,000. Each floor will have sixteen two-man rooms with the exception of the first,
which will have only fourteen due to a lounge at the first-floor entrance. On each floor will be two bathrooms,
one at each end of the hall. There will also be storage space for luggage on each floor, and a
telephone on each of the four stories. The halls will have gray tiling approximately four feet up the walls. The
individual rooms will each have a lavatory with a tiled recess and a medicine cabinet with a mirror above. Opposite
this on the other side of the rectangular room will be a shelf for a record player or radio. A
clothes hamper with swinging doors was originally planned to be built in under this shelf, but due to added expense,
had to be omitted.

Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories, stated in an interview, “This is my main objection in connection with the
new dorm. I had been hoping all along that some type of clothes bin could be included in the final
plans.” Other than the single fixtures, there will be for each occupant a cabinet-type wardrobe which will include a clothes
closet with sliding doors, four clothes drawers with a storage cabinet above, and also another cabinet near the ceiling. On
each side of the room will be a built-in bed which can double as a lounge during the day. Above
each bed will be a cork board. Completing each side of the room will be shelves and a semi-private, built-in
desk with a lamp, drawer, and cork paneling above.

PA INTERVIEWS

Monday, February 15—Kendall Company, S. H. Kress.
Tuesday, February 16—Deering-Milliken (Sales and production), Shell Oil Company, Colgate Palmolive.
Wednesday, February 17—Deering-Milliken (Production)
Wednesday and Thursday, February 17 and 18—Procter and Gamble.
Thursday, February 18—First National Bank of S.C., Prudential Insurance Co. (Actuarial).
Friday, February 19—Jacksonville Paper Co.

STUDENT SUBSCRIPTION SERVICE, 2133 RH Norwood St., L.A. 7, Calif.
Enclosed find $. Send to:
Name____________________ Class of _______
Address __________________ City ___________
( ) New ( ) Renewal ( ) Gift from:

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

Evening Vespers

This Sunday evening's Vesper Service will be unique in that it will be conducted solely by members of the student
body in observance of the Universal Day of Prayer for Students.

Jim McCaslin, who is coordinating the project for the “Y”, said that the service will be presented by Dave Robinson,
“Koogie” Kwon, and Tom Smith. Robinson, president of the local YMCA, will preside and lead the devotional. Kwon will discuss
students around the world and will center his talk around his personal experiences. Smith, speaking on Christ's call to students,
will stress the responsibility of the individual to himself and the world, to make his life worthwhile.

The service is a part of thousands of such observances which will be held by Christians in the colleges and
universities of all the countries in the world. The international observance is sponsored by the World’s Student Christian Federation (WSCF),
which unites Christian groups in over seventy countries around the world. Since 1895, this special day of prayer has been
an occasion when prayers are made to God for the spiritual, physical, and intellectual welfare of students, teachers, and academic
institutions of higher learning.

All students are urged to attend this special service and to join in prayer for other students around the world.
The offering will be used to help some 1,000 student refugees in Hong Kong.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will have open house for the student body after vespers Sunday night:
Bailey
Brooks
Drake
Ghigo
Horton
Hufford
Johnston
Lammers
Lester
Lord
McGeachy
Minter
Plott
Smith

JOE BLACK

A Study: Burlap Sack And Stick With Nail
By BOB PHILLIPS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Maybe you know Joe. He is the colored man you usually see with a burlap...Sack hung over his shoulder and
a stick with a nail in one end in his hand. Joe picks up paper and trash off the college
grounds. One of the best ideas they could do... “Why?” “I’m telling you the best I know how. You know
how a fella who didn't finish school can’t answer these questions like somebody that has. I do my best, and
I think I get along pretty well for a man who didn’t finish school.”

Military Will Fete Annual Winter Ball

The Second Annual Military Ball, sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, will be held on February 27.
The Ball will be at the Charlotte Women’s Club from nine to midnight. The feature of the evening will be
the selection of an Honorary Cadet Colonel from the dates of Scabbard and Blade members. The Honorary Cadet Colonel will
then be presented by Lt. Col. W. A. Adams, Jr., Davidson College PMS&T, in a special figure. Col. Adams will
escort the Honorary Cadet Colonel through an archway formed by Scabbard and Blade members holding sabres, which were lent to
the Davidson College Scabbard and Blade by Clemson College.

Joe is a friendly-type fellow. He was very cordial to me, and he seems to get along well with his
colleagues. They appear to like Joe. He was working in the new science building wearing his usual blue denim coveralls
and untidy greenish shirt, but he was without his burlap sack when I found him. “I work inside when the
weather is bad,” he said, “But most of the time I work on the yard. In the summer I usually
cut grass, and in the fall I rake leaves, pick up paper and things like that.”

“How long have you been working at Davidson, Joe?”

“Well, I got my ten and fifteen year pin. The next will be my twenty year pin. They give us
pins every five years.”

“Have you lived in Davidson all your life?”

“No, I was raised and born in Cabarrus County. I been married now onto twenty years. When I married that
woman I moved up here. I live in Cornelius. I got two children, and they’re both married.”

“How about school, Joe?”

“I stopped in the third grade. They didn’t make you go. My daddy got me out of school most any
time. You see, we was farmers. I left the farm and came up here. It's been nice here. The students
seem to like me. Everybody seems mighty nice and friendly. I can't swear, though. You can't tell much about a
man when they don’t say much to you. But they all seem friendly.”

“Do you think Davidson should be integrated?”

Joe looked at me suspiciously and fumbled around with his hat on a table top and stared at it. “I’m
for it,” I said. Then he looked away. “Yeah, I do... good idea.” He paused. “One fella’s words don’t go
but so far. It’s pleasing with me.”

When you're old enough to go to college, you're old enough to go out with girls. When you're old enough
to go out with girls, who needs college? Oh well, there's always Coke. BE REALLY REFRESHED. Bottled under authority of
The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, N.C.

The best tobacco makes the best smoke!

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1960

Wonderland (Continued From Page One)

Now, and there was a curious gleam in his pink eye. “How curious!” thought Alice.

ALICE’S EVIDENCE

The next morning Alice awoke to find herself upon the wooded hill again. She was alone, and she felt terribly
queer. “Oh!” she cried. “I feel as if there’s not enough left of me to make ONE respectable person!” She
sat up and looked about curiously. Soon her eye fell on a little box that was lying nearby. She picked
it up and read upon it the words, “EAT ME”, and beneath, in smaller letters, “A combination of ingredients. Will
not upset your stomach.” “Well, I'll eat it,” said Alice. “I scarcely care what happens, I feel so queer.” She
opened the box, popped the little pill inside into her mouth. Something curious began to happen. “Curiouser and curiouser!” she
cried, “Now I am opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet!” For suddenly, when she looked
she could not see her feet at all. And still she grew — more and more and more. Alice sat
down. “How horrid!" she thought. “Whatever could have happened?” In the silence of the wood, no answer came... only the
chirping of occasional birds. And then she heard it. A muffled laugh rose from deep in the brush, and the
sound of running feet. That horrid rabbit. Alice began to cry.

Male Chorus (Continued From Page One)

For his Davidson recital Donald Gramm has chosen a program of bass arias from Haydn’s “The Creation,” the operas “Tannhauser”
and “Alceste.” A group of art songs by Bizet, Carl Loewe and Brahms lieder will also be heard. A special
feature will be a group of American folk songs arranged by Mr. Gramm and Paul Bowles’ “The Blue Mountain Ballads”
set to poetry by Tennessee Williams, famous American playwright. Of Gramm’s singing the New York Journal-American stated “he revealed three
assets: A fine bass-baritone, sensitive interpretation, and intelligent artistry.” The Detroit News declared that “Donald Gramm provided a ‘Figaro’ to
rank with the best... a voice of power and tonal splendor and singing of genuine artistry.” Boston’s Herald music critic
wrote, “Gramm's voice is notable for power, quality, and expression, but his diction is impeccable and his interpretive gifts are
outstanding.” The concert is open free to all members of the student body. Tickets may be obtained by calling and
writing the Artist Series, Davidson College.

Have a real cigarette—have a CAMEL.
