Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1960

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Greek Week: Means To An End Or End In Itself?

The Davidson fraternity system has met in recent weeks particularly strong criticism and questions. The keynote to the present unrest,
felt by both faculty and students, is the always controversial Greek Week. We are assured by IFC President Ward McKeithen
that 1960 Greek Week activities will be closely supervised. McKeithen has further stated that strict rules have been made, and
that heavy fines will be imposed on offenders. (See last week's Davidsonian.) We hope that this will be the case.
We hope that the IFC will not be shackled by its too-specific rules, and will not forget that it has
the final say-so and the final obligation when it comes to interpreting the general rules. We hope that it can
meet situations head on when fraternities skirt the specific rules with other activities equally as degrading.

But this is not the real problem at hand. The real problem is this: when the fraternities are an integral
part of Davidson College, how can they ignore their half of the bargain? They are part of an educational institution;
every action should be directed toward the same goal as that of the institution. But when, at the beginning of
the second semester when the freshmen become more closely associated with their groups, academic achievement in freshmen classes drops off
alarmingly, we cannot help wondering if there is an equal investment from both partners.

Greek Week itself is part of this attitude. President McKeithen asserts that the fraternity system is not sick. We can
hardly agree. A healthy system would not meet the criticism that ours does, and it would not be plagued by
disillusioned seniors negating their active affiliation. Some of them say that they went inactive because of financial reasons. Even so,
this means that the return is not worth the investment, whereas before this year it may have been.

We would like to see an objective self-examination on the part of the fraternities. Is the pledge program designed to
satisfy sophomore brothers who “had to do it, so why shouldn’t this year's class?” Or is it designed to develop
a firm friendship and a mutual understanding? We are afraid that it is the former, even though it may be
disguised as the latter. Proponents say that “A little head unifies the pledge class.” Perhaps it does. But what fraternity
will advertise that it has four “unified” classes? Should not the aim be to unify the fraternity as a whole?

We see only one way that the fence between pledges and brothers can be broken down. It will collapse through
a common effort toward a common goal, and the result will be a unified fraternity, in every sense of the
word. But we must not forget that the goal should be as close to that of the college as possible.
Some fraternities have made a step toward this goal by making a genuine ‘Help Week’ part of the pledge program.
The line between pledges and brothers vanishes under common “blisters.” No one who has had such an experience will forget
it. But even this falls short. If such an experience is so meaningful once a year, why not repeat it
more often? One such project every six weeks totals five a year, and if twelve fraternities participated, the goal would
be shared by all. They need not be four-day programs; even Saturday afternoons provide good opportunity.

The 85% statistic shows that the fraternities are easily the most powerful organizations on the campus. This power should not
be wasted or ignored. Educational projects should be almost sure-fire. The IFC concert series leans this way; we would like
to see an IFC-sponsored lecture series. Well-known speakers bring a vote of confidence and admiration to the fraternity which secures
them. Charity projects would help justify a fraternity’s existence. So would organized scholarship programs, not only for freshmen, but for
upperclassmen as well. So would emphasis on such programs as the Artist Series. So would any project directed toward improving
the value of a Davidson education. We would all do well to stop and think.

Needed: Instruction Along With Construction

With the approval of sabbaticals and leaves of absence by the Trustees, the total number of faculty members who will
not be with the college next year has increased to ten. Dr. Labban, Dr. Abernethy, Dr. Ratliff and Dr. Houchens
have been given sabbaticals while Dr. Jackson and Professor McLane will take leaves of absence. These men join Dr. Evans,
Dr. Satterfield, Dr. Trakas and Dr. Ostwalt, who will take other positions, in the list of departures. Even though six
of these men will return, the growing list causes some concern. It now includes approximately one-seventh of the total number
of current faculty members and certainly contains some of the outstanding professors teaching at Davidson. Three of these are the
only men in their departments.

Dean Johnston informs us that replacements for these professors are now being considered. However, replacements comparable to the men being
lost will be hard to find. Departures of this sort bring into sharp focus the importance of a strong faculty
to any college. Charles Dana and friends have seen to it that Davidson has one of the finest physical plants
in the nation, and for this we are grateful. However, we feel that buildings are of secondary importance to the
men who teach and learn within them. We hope that Dean Johnston will be successful in his attempts to bring
qualified men to Davidson. And we also hope, now that we are physically fully equipped, that there will be a
sufficient increase in faculty salaries so that teaching at Davidson will be worthwhile and not only an opportunity for service.
We are still of the old school which believes faculties more important than facilities—J. H.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charlie Rowe

Associate Editor
Jim Hamilton

Managing Editors
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore
B. Millner
Tom Colvin

Sports Editor
David Jordan

Feature Editor
Russ Showalter

Assignments Editor
McClure Jr.

Copy Editor
Greg Grane

Cartoonists
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1870.

Flags Unfurled .............. by Cline

ABOLISH STUDENT COUNCIL?

Members Review Council Lag: Blame Student Indifference

By TOM HUDGINS and TOM PARKER

Since the time for Student Council elections for the coming year is now drawing near, it seems fitting that we
review the achievements of the present administration. Such a review at this time might prove somewhat embarrassing, for the achievements
of this council are almost nil. If this is true, obviously the present system of student government should be circumspectly
studied with a view toward improvement. Doubtless the failure of the council can be attributed, to a large degree, to
the inadequate leadership evidenced by the council and the apathy of the student body. The councils of the past three
years, however, have done no better except, perhaps, for the establishment of the Honor Court.

Student criticism of the Council’s lack of leadership and authority in campus issues is valid now and has been for
some time. According to popular opinion, it appears that this body should do three things—legislate, serve as a means of
communication between the faculty and the student body, and discuss non-legislative issues, i.e., those issues not concerned with student conduct.
As things stand now, however, the Council does not legislate, because it fears or feels unaware of popular opinion. Rather
it serves as a mouthpiece for the faculty through the president and leaves non-legislative issues to the Y.M.C.A. Thus Student
Council actually serves as little more than an organized bull session for the students elected under Davidson’s unique election system.

Perhaps student body enthusiasm is the answer, or perhaps, as some members have suggested, the council should re-establish its past
function by reabsorbing the Honor Court. If, however, the primary function of student government is judicial, it seems that not
the Honor Court but the Student Council should be abolished. A third feasible plan that we personally favor would be
to retain the Honor Court and to replace the Student Council with a Student Body Council. This body would consist
of the three class presidents and a student body president who would serve as chairman and preside over student body
functions. In addition to carrying out the duties of the present system (i.e. appointing the election board and the Court
of Control), the new council, through Friday's Chapel period and open debate and voting by the students, could effectively ascertain
student opinion on legislative and non-legislative matters. Thus the student body president could express directly the feelings of the students
to the faculty. Certainly this would facilitate faculty-student relations even though faculty cooperation would still be a major factor.

We believe that our statements about the functions of the present system can be largely supported by the council meeting
report in last week's DAVIDSONIAN. We want only to bring to light the weaknesses of the present system and to
urge the student body to take an interest in this matter. In any case, only the students can change Student
Government from a lifeless figurehead into an active body serving the best interests of the student body and college, either
by making the present system function or altering the basic foundations of this system.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

Breiten Finds His Blanket; Freshman Blasts “Liberals”

David Breiten

Dear Editor:

This week it is with pleasure that I write, for I amNow warm at night under my wool virgin and
my faith in the Davidson Honor System has been restored. Thanks to your publishing my letter last week, my blanket
was found on the back landing of the second floor East on Saturday morning. This, I feel, is a credit
to the Davidson Gentlemen as well as to your advertising potential. Thank you.

David S. Breiten

Tom Ross

Dear Editor:

It seems obvious that the Admissions Committee and the hiring body for the faculty have shown a lack of discretion
and judgment the last few years. This is the only logical explanation I can find for the deficiency of intelligence
and common sense that is being continually exhibited by our dubious student leaders and various professors.

For the past month these intelligentsia, these intellectual giants, have been browbeating and criticizing the Board of Trustees, the college
officials, and the clear-minded conservatives with petition, pen, and prank over the Board's decision and the college’s stand on Segregation.
I am beginning to wonder if these rabble-rousing liberals have ever actually considered the consequences of integration at Davidson College.
These Champions of Justice, while constantly harping on the injustices of Segregation, fail to see the greater injustices to the
present student body, the possible future Negro student, and the college if Integration were to come about.

A Negro in this school would be under a constant and unforgiving surveillance from both the faculty and the student
body. His achievements or opinions would probably be ignored or degraded. As most national fraternities contain a white clause, he
would undoubtedly be excluded from fraternity life, although according to some English professors this would not be a major tragedy!
But, it would be a contributing factor to the overall emphasis of complete social isolation that a rational person surely
must see is inevitable.

Davidson being predominantly a southern school, how would the prestige and reputation of this college be affected if Negroes were
admitted to this campus? Would we continue to be swamped with applicants? What effect would it have on donations? Even
though, at times, the Trustees leave much to be desired, doesn’t it seem logical that they would be interested in
the continued welfare of the college? Why don't we quit being little generals and let the leading be done by
the leaders?

Tom Ross

Says Paper Guilty Of Misrepresentation

To: The Davidson College Publications Board.

This letter is intended to serve notice of my resignation as Business Manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN, as a result of
certain personal convictions and certain circumstances which have arisen during the past few months.

First, I do not care to lend my name or effort to the policies which have lately consumed THE DAVIDSONIAN.
Having due respect for the Negro and concern for his advancement and the problems and situations attending his integration in
our present way of life, I nevertheless find some policies of THE DAVIDSONIAN in the past seven months at variance
with my personal views, as these policies have run from one extreme to the other, and with the assumption of
editorial duties by Mr. Smith, find it used to pressure the trustees of the college in a matter that is
their free choice, and used to misrepresent Davidson College to the general public, and in general failing to serve the
purposes for which it was established—to report to and inform Davidson students of news in an impartial and accurate way.

Secondly, since THE DAVIDSONIAN is financed by student fees, I feel its foremost responsibility is to these students and crusading
or opinions on controversial subjects should be confined to the editorial sections of the newspaper. Surely there are many subjects
at hand, deserving attention and a clear presentation of facts involved, which are being neglected. THE DAVIDSONIAN belongs to the
college community and not to any faction or group, regardless of who is entrusted with its editorship. On these grounds
I resign, without malice, but as a protest to what many consider to be a growing misuse of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

David B. Gillis, Jr.

STERLING COMMENTS: For 1960: A Lack Of Real Leadership

By PETER STERLING

It is difficult to understand how the 1960 Presidential Election can be called a battle between Democrats and Republicans. It
is, more exactly, a battle among senatorial personalities. The American political system has developed many splinter parties, based not upon
distinct philosophies as in France, but upon the personality of the individual candidate. This is much in evidence in the
1960 Campaign.

MANIFOLD EFFECTS

The effects of this development of the election of personalities are manifold. First, neither the Democrats nor the Republicans have
executed firm leadership in the last decade. The Republican Administration has been an extension of all the “Deals” without imagination
or forethought to inspire necessary new programs. The Democrats, in turn, while controlling Congress for the past six years, have
failed to present a constructive opposition to the White House. They have fought so hard among themselves that their effectiveness
has been lost in “family troubles”. This lack of leadership has often caused the American people and her allies to
guess what our policy really is.

NO FIRM POLICIES

The second effect is contingent upon the first. Neither party has presented policies which firmly separate the two. Both parties
have tried to give every segment of the population benefits in order not to be classified as favoring one group
over another. Consequently, both parties have “watered down” their principles so as to antagonize no group. Not only, therefore, do
the parties fail to give an image of their objectives, but they give the voter few alternatives in elections. The
difference between Democrats and Republicans today is more in degree than in basic policy.

CAMPAIGNS PROFESSIONALIZED

Thirdly, election campaigns have become more professionalized, thus reducing the voice of the voter as to whom his candidate should
be. Each candidate can build a tremendous machine (witness Kennedy) which in previous years only the party itself could afford.
The voter, therefore, sees little party cohesiveness, nor can he make himself heard through party circles. Increasingly, the party organization
is weakening while the candidates’ organizations are growing stronger. The consequence of this is that the candidate must be independently
wealthy or have access to huge contributions while the parties grow poorer.

LESS VOICE

The overall effect of the splintering of the political parties in the U.S. is that the voter has less and
less voice in his government. He finds that the candidates (now all in the Senate) reduce the national party policy
to platitudes while trying to create the impression of their own leadership ability. As voters become less interested because they
find the alternatives between parties so slight and because they find leadership so lacking, it becomes easier for poor political
bosses and demagogues to take over.

INSISTENCE ON LEADERSHIP

Americans must insist that the national parties present strong leadership and definitive policies. We can no longer afford arguments in
degree (such as whether to spend $3.5B or $3.6B on missiles) but each party must present programs which are more
in the national interest. The cult of personality in national politics will eventually weaken the democratic process by discouraging voting
and encouraging irresponsible leadership. One of the problems today is to find a man capable of meeting the tremendous concerns
facing Americans today. I see no such man on the political horizon.

THE HAWK’S NEST

Fraternities Fail To Realize Potential

By JACK TAYLOR

The recent rash of fraternity members seeking inactive status was, in several instances, an indictment of the lethargic state in
which the fraternity system here at Davidson wallows. Charges of mediocrity, intellectual torpidity, spiritual shallowness, and superficial brotherhood were leveled
at the system by the dissatisfied insurgents.

These accusations are not easily dismissed; the evidences supporting them are too obvious. Where the blame lies is difficult to
determine. Perhaps it is not the fraternity system itself which induces apathy, conformity, mediocrity, and anti-intellectualism. It is conceivable that
the attitudes might be symptoms of a more far-reaching sickness than the fraternity system alone. Perhaps they are inherent with
a homogeneous student body. Perhaps they result from administrative paternalism. Perhaps they are a reflection of the large lassitude which
is said to prevail among college students throughout the United States.

Whatever the causes underlying these attitudes, the fraternities cannot be held blameless. The fraternities have permitted the perpetuation of mediocrity,
mental lethargy, and spiritual shallowness, when, because of their near totality at Davidson, it is the fraternities who are in
the strongest position to oppose these attitudes. Instead, the fraternities have reduced themselves to the status of boarding houses, dependent
for significance upon their totality. They have failed to grasp the greater vision of their potential. They have limited their
meaning to that of a social organization, and have further reduced this definition by interpreting social to mean after-dance party.

Such narrowness is hardly justified in a system which encompasses eighty-five percent of the student body. In its grandest state,
the fraternity is more than a boarding house, more than eight organized parties a year, more than sixty names to
be memorized. In its grandest state the relationships between the members become fused in a dynamic force which affects each
member, not only fulfilling his social needs, but also urging him to establish his identity as an individual, and encouraging
him to examine life for its deepest meanings.

If the fraternities at Davidson are to have any real significance, they must grasp the reality of their full potential,
and exert every effort necessary to actualize this potential.
