FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

A LOOK AT... SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

Can Defense Hold Out? Morton Mastered Wofford’s Tosses

Three times Saturday night Wofford quarterbacks faded back to pass, found receivers, and threw toward their targets. And three times a Davidson defender intercepted, once within his own five-yard line, once in his end-zone.

"ACCORDING TO the latest bulletin released this week, Davidson tops the Southern Conference in total defense (207.5 yards per game), places second in rushing defense (140.0), and is third in pass defense (62.5). Meanwhile, Coach Dole has robbed his defensive unit of three key men and another, end Booker Clark, a co-captain, probably will not play tomorrow because of a shoulder injury.

THE REASON, of course, for Dole’s move is to jack up his offensive attack, which collapsed like a card table at Wofford. His new strategy shows sophomore Kent Tucker at quarterback, Jerry Sheffield at halfback, and David Lovette at guard.

CAN DAVIDSON’S defensive team bear up under such losses? We'll see tomorrow.

Proud Sophomores Take Field Day

WITH THE Citadel football squad here Saturday will be a cheering section of 300 Cadets, en masse, in uniform. (We understand that Gen. Clark coughed up weekend leaves for all of them.) But that’s not all. A bevy of Mecklenburg misses who call themselves the “Majettes” will stage a halftime show, complete with firebrands — and chaperones, in that order.

PARTISAN WILDCAT fans won't be left out, either. The Davidson Pep Band, a newly-formed group of way-outs (whom we’re proud to salute), will dish up music from the stands.

Party Line

WHO'S ON the other end of the line? In the midst of a chat with a Charlotte sports writer in May, Dole’s intercom buzzed. A long-distance call he had placed had gone through.

SAID DOLE, “I’m calling one of the best quarterbacks I've ever laid eyes on. I think he may be coming to Davidson. If he does, he and this boy from Wilmington, Earl Cole, who has already said he’ll come, will give us the two best quarterbacks we've had since I've been here. Better than Dyke Little and Dick Belton.”

THAT’S QUITE a statement. But then again, this party is quite a ballplayer. You've guessed his name by now — Benny Coxton of Raven, Va.

Bad Night In Spartanburg

PRETTIEST offensive play for the Wildcats against Wofford was a 15-yard run by fullback Bob McAllister. Every blocker hit his man, leaving a 10-foot-wide path through the line and secondary. Unfortunately, this type of play was the exception with Davidson.

WOFFORD’S sophomore quarterbacks were fighting for their lives. Tommy Ellis had beat out Bill Neely the week before for the post. Neely had his chance Saturday night, but two of his passes were intercepted.

A SPORTS writer, calling in his story, said, “The game was witnessed by 4,500 fans.” There was a pause. “The game was witnessed by 4,500 PEOPLE.”

SOMEWHERE on the Davidson campus is a drum major’s baton belonging to Wofford. Davidson partisans snatched it after Wofford freshmen ran off with two Wildcat megaphones.

Wofford Had Weight Edge

GLANCING over the game program, we counted 22 Wofford players weighing over 200 pounds. Davidson has only three in that category. Soon it may be only two. Guard Butch Shumaker, who started the season at 233 pounds, has dropped 18 pounds in three weeks by latest count. Butch has been on a liquid diet of Metrecal.

WITH 22 players above the 200 mark, it was interesting to note that Wofford’s freak touchdown was scored by its lightest player on the field. Quarterback Pressley Daniels (165) dived over from the two.

NEXT WEEK: WE STRIKE BACK AT THE MECKLENBURG TIMES.

Thompson Is Out

Harriers Strut By Pembroke; Deacons Host ’Cats Wednesday

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

At 4:00 this afternoon, the Davidson College cross-country team began its 1960 season in fine style by outlasting Pembroke St. in the grueling 4-mile contest. Although the official places and times were not available at press time, the ‘Cat Harriers performed just as Coach A. Heath Whittle had expected.

Earlier in the week, it was learned that Captain Bob Thompson would not be running this fall. Thus, Coach Whittle lost another member of his fine 1959 squad, which compiled a 7-2 record including a 17-44 (low score wins) victory over almost the same Pembroke team that ran here this afternoon. However, the loss of these five excellent runners (two by graduation, two by transfer, and now Thompson) should not dim Coach Whittle’s hopes for the season. He has five of the best cross-country men Davidson has seen in several years including the following:

Bill Eckbert, who captured third place in the conference meet last year, and who set a new course record at Pembroke with a time of 21 minutes and 49 seconds.

David Gilmour, a hard-working junior who finished ninth in last year's conference meet.

Tom Martin, a vastly improved returnee from 1959.

DUNCAN MORTON

Morton, a slight junior, plodded off the field later, detached because his team had been beaten, 6-0, but secure in the light that he had helped hold the score that low. Morton is our “Wildcat of the Week.” In his efforts were exemplified the performance of the whole defensive unit. Two of them must be named alongside Morton: guard David Lovette and end Booker Clark.

Morton's size (5'11½", 152) is deceptive. For two years at Charlotte’s Myers Park High School he played end and was rated All-City, All-County, and All-State his senior year by The Charlotte News. Coach Stevens retained him at end his freshman year here. Duncan has also played quarterback for the varsity. Perhaps that explains his preoccupation with pass interceptions. Morton doesn’t know about that, but he did say, “I knew they weren't going to score off our defense.”

Says Coach Dole, “Duncan has great reflexive actions. He will intercept a lot of passes for us this year. But his main asset is a highly competitive spirit.”

The Wildcats could kick themselves. And they probably could get more yardage out of it than they managed Saturday night in Spartanburg. In 10 punts (and that in itself may be a record) three kickers averaged 25.8 yards. Total Davidson offense was 77 yards net gain. Wofford won the default, 6-0. It was only the second time in five years that the ‘Cats had been skunked. Dole summed it up: “We missed too many blocks.”

Coach Paul Marrotte this week predicted an opening game victory for his soccer men in next Wednesday’s match with Belmont Abbey. “I hope it will be a repeat of last year's 2-1 score,” he said. Marrotte said he would be fielding a stronger team this year, although declining to name a starting line-up because of several uncertain positions. He said Bob Winsor is making a strong bid for a starting berth at halfback, while Jim McCaslin and Tom Green are pushing for positions in the backfield for Davidson halfbacks.

TOUGH SLATE

“Because the team is facing a rougher schedule (Duke, UNC, NC State, and VMI among others) anything over a 6-5 record will be good,” he said. The coach did an about-face this week, paying tribute to the entire squad for its co-operation and determination to put a winning team on the field. Earlier he had complained that the Wildcats could kick themselves. And they probably could get more yardage out of it than they managed Saturday night in Spartanburg. In 10 punts (and that in itself may be a record) three kickers averaged 25.8 yards. Total Davidson offense was 77 yards net gain. Wofford won the default, 6-0. It was only the second time in five years that the ‘Cats had been skunked. Dole summed it up: “We missed too many blocks.”

Wofford's fate was not much better, though it rang up a net gain of 230 yards. Largely re.Sterling Martin, a unicycling, ear-muff wearing sophomore who can run all day, was responsible for defensive half-some players not attending practice sessions. Duncan Morton intercepted three Wofford passes.

SENIORS LAUDED
This week he particularly singled out the seniors who have been booting since Marrotte joined Coach McCutchan in 1957. “The unsubsidized athlete is the backbone of most of Davidson's athletic teams — soccer in particular,” he said. Marrotte praised the willingness, as well as the desire, of his entire squad to make the sacrifice of time and perhaps enjoyment of other activities for nine weeks each fall. Southern Conference statistics released this week back him up. Davidson leads in total defense with an allowance of 207.5 yards per game. VPI’s 226.0 rates second. Sharing in praise from Dole were end Booker Clark (who will be a co-captain this week), guard David Lovette, and defensive backs Grant McKrorie and Morton. Lovette, on at least three occasions, brushed past Wofford blockers to break up plays before they started. Quarterbacks attest to that. Defensive lineman Bill Whittington made the big fourth-down tackle as Davidson staged a stubborn stand within its five-yard-line in the third quarter. Larry Leafer, another finely conditioned sophomore, ran long without breaking a sweat. This Wednesday, the ‘Cats travel to Winston-Salem to run against the Wake Forest harriers. Last year, Davidson downed both the Deacons’ varsity and frosh teams, 22-37 and 22-42, respectively. The Deacons lost their number one man, Jordan, so the ‘Cats should chalk up another victory. Then next Saturday, Oct. 8, the harriers entertain Southern Conference foe Citadel here. The Wildcats beat the Bulldogs last season, 20-35.

Tomorrow Tucker Pilots ’Cats In First Loop Game
By CARL RUST
Sports Writer

Sophomore quarterback Kent Tucker will be calling the plays tomorrow when Davidson meets The Citadel at 2:30 p.m. on Richardson Field. Disappointed by last week’s 6-0 loss to Wofford, Coach Bill Dole has also called upon Jerry Sheffield, Alex Gibbs, and Bob McAllister to start in the offensive backfield. It's all a part of an extensive personnel shakedown, involving seven positions. In Charleston last year, Citadel’s Bulldogs, scoring twice within 58 seconds, downed the ‘Cats, 13-7. Last week when the Cats lost to Wofford, the Citadel was upset by George Washington 19 to 14. However, the Citadel displayed a superb passing game with quarterback Jerry Nettles throwing two touchdown passes.

RUNNING ATTACK
Coach Dole stated that the Citadel also has a strong running attack. He hopes to have a good defense against this running attack in addition to a good pass defense to meet the Citadel offense. In preparation for the clash with The Citadel, the Wildcats have been concentrating on the offensive blocking, not letting it suffer as it did last weekend. Coach Dole had this to say about the Cat’s blocking against Wofford: “Our blocking was poor, and we missed enough blocking assignments to last a year!”

ON DEFENSE
Last week there were no great standouts on offense; however, Dave Lovette and Booker Clark played a tremendous defensive game. The starting line-up defensively against the Citadel will be: Booker Clark and Mickey Slaughter, ends; Bill Salzer and Eddie Crutchfield, tackles; Billy Bankhead and Dick Voorhees, guards; Carl Hunt, Duncan Morton, and Joe Ansley, linebackers; and Bob Cordle and Danny House, halfbacks.

NEW FACES
Starting on offense are Mike Owen and Lou Zirkle, ends; Scott Lacy and Johnny Crute, tackles; Dave Lovette and Harold Bynum, guards; Tom Simpson, center; Kent Tucker, quarterback; Jerry Sheffield and Alex Gibbs, halfbacks; and Bob McAllister at fullback. Captains for the game will be Scott Lacy and Booker Clark. The Wildcat's record is now 1-1. In the remaining games, Coach Dole hopes to develop a balance in his offense and defense and to develop some kind of passing attack to augment his running attack. Last week in Spartanburg, 29 players saw action, and it is Coach Dole’s desire to continue using this number of men the remainder of the season.

Six Frats Share Flickerball Lead
Intramural flickerball action got underway this week, and after Wednesday afternoon, six fraternities were resting on top of the heap. The six top dogs include the Betas, KA’s, Phi Delts, Kappa Sigs, Pikas, and SAE’s — all undefeated. Trailing close behind with one defeat and one victory are the Phi Gams and Sigma Chis. The Sigma Nus, ATO's, Independents, Pi Kapps, and Sig Eps are all winless.

1-F STANDINGS
W L
Phi Delt 1 0
KA 1 0
Pika 1 0
SAE 1 0
Beta 1 0
Phi Gam 1 1
Sigma Chi 1 1
Pi Kapp 0 1
ATO 0 1

Frosh Seek First Win
Coach Tem Stevens is counting on a fast and heavy backfield next Thursday when his Wildkittens make their college debut in Chester, S.C., against The Citadel Bullpups. His principal weapon is a 184-pound phenomenon from Raven, Va., Benny Coxton. “That boy grabs a football like he would a baseball,” said Stevens. An outstanding all-star athlete from a small high school, Coxton doubles as quarterback and left halfback. At quarterback is a pin-point passer, Earl Cole, 160, of Wilmington. Danny Lopp, also 160, doubles for Coxton at left half and is the fastest player on the 32-man squad. James Fuller, 205, of High Point, is described by Stevens as “big and fast.” He will run the power plays from fullback. A 176-pound Winston-Salem boy, Lyle Blalock, holds down the right halfback post.

Three Bright Wildcats
Three Davidson varsity footballers are included in a list of 26 players from the Southern Conference who have been nominated for the 1960 all-conference academic football team. Representing the Wildcats are senior tackle Scott Lacy (a co-captain for Saturday's game with The Citadel), and two sophomores, halfback Bob Cordle and end Mike Owen.

BMOC*
*Big Man On Campus—yea man! He treats the gals to Coke. Who can compete with charm like that? So if you’re a little underweight, remember—you don’t have to be a football hero to be popular. Just rely on the good taste of Coke. Put in a big supply today!