PAGE TWO

The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A Firm Man At The Wheel

President Martin’s Thursday chapel talk was, we believe, a heartening one—and perhaps a good omen. The President first revealed his concern about what has long been a danger at Davidson: the tendency of the college to fatten on its own ego. “It seems to me,” said Dr. Martin, “that what might be called a superiority complex is the most dangerous thing facing this college in the years just ahead.” We agree. And we believe that recognizing that danger so forthrightly is the first big step toward eliminating the hazard of an overweening self-satisfaction on the part of this college.

The president’s remarks regarding vespers and chapel conduct—and his announcement of the new faculty regulations concerning chapel—we also heard with pleasure, for Dr. Martin showed on the behalf of the faculty and administration a new willingness to take a firm stand: to lead. We are not strong believers in required religious services, nor do we feel with the trustees that vespers at Davidson can be called “vital” in the life of the college now. But we believe that if ever some better alternative to required religion at Davidson is found, it will not be rebellion and student discourtesy which we may thank. We like Dr. Martin’s firmness. We like the hint—implicit in his Thursday talk—that the time for mere brow-furrowing is over, that some really creative thinking has begun.

At Davidson College, often labelled a “paternal” institution, the college fathers have too long been Autocrats of the Breakfast Table. Now, with Dr. Martin in the president’s chair and an alert, concerned faculty, perhaps their role is changing. We hope so.

—E.S.D.

An Appetizing Innovation

Francis Bacon wrote several hundred years ago, “some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested...” In the past, Davidson has survived on a meager menu of books available through the student store. This year, we moved from the snack bar to the restaurant status when the college union opened its enlarged and relocated bookstore. The present bookstore is the fruit of the prolonged labors of several students, and members of the faculty and administration. The philosophy of the bookstore has changed from one of profit to one of service. Union officials have said that profits from the store will be returned to the students through reduced prices on books.

The Davidsonian commends Tom Covington for his untiring effort in opening and running the store. We should also like to recognize Charles Ringe and C. Shaw Smith, who through their positions of leadership in union affairs have helped make the bookstore possible. To the administration, which has assumed the financial responsibilities of the store, goes a special word of commendation. With this step, Davidson has moved forward in offering the best for its students.

—T.B.C.

Gone Are the Days

Another tradition bit the dust last week. The freshman riot, named so because the blame for riots was always laid on the freshmen, has been shelved in the interest of safety and the buckling tile on the first floor of Belk. The old riots were always fun,—an aggressive, hard-nosed, ego-fooling way to blow off steam. But with the age of organization and specialization at hand, the riots were getting a little out of hand. When last year’s coolly efficient Class of '63 manned the electrical panel and doused the entire campus in darkness (and disrupted a reception for a prominent painter in President Martin’s home) the turning point had been reached.

The Student Council and the Faculty Executive Committee mean business. They are not, as some freshmen have theorized, simply daring the class to organize and show some spirit. They have set down the law and they have the guns to enforce it. But what about the sophomores who are certain to taunt the Class of ‘64 with allegations of effeminacy and cowardice? The recommendation of the council mentions only freshmen specifically. This is only natural, for the freshmen are traditionally regarded as the aggressors in any sort of altercation between the classes. The executive committee takes a broader view. In the statement issued by Dean Bailey, we find that “any student or group of students” may be punished for violating the new riot act. This must include sophomores, juniors, and seniors as well as freshmen. Who knows? Before long, we may have the rather charming situation where a freshman turns an upperclassman in for a violation of regulations.

Memo to IFC

Despite the good intention of the Interfraternity Council, the “gentleman’s agreement” regarding dormitory rushing this year was a failure. Members of all fraternities overstayed their allowed 15-minute room visitation time. The result: hard feelings on fraternity court and a host of freshmen weary of small talk. We suggest that next year the IFC have more than a mere agreement among fraternity members, that the council devise some way of enforcing the 15-minute visiting regulation. Freshman complaints about the frequency and length of dorm visits indicate that dorm rushing—if overdone—may be a hindrance rather than a help.

—R. M. B.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
Assistant Editor Tom Colvin
Associate Editors Ervin Duggan, Bob Moore, David Jordan, Don Saunders
Bill Godwin Managing Editors
Sports Editor
Assignments Editor Russ Showalter
Copy Editor Jack Hand
Advertising Manager Olin Nisbet
Circulation Manager Butler Bennett
Assistant Bus. Manager Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Strength In Unity?....

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Freshmen Get Thorns

Lanier Membership Chairman
Zeta Xi Alpha
Coddington Longstreet
Palmetto Place
Sea Island, Georgia

Dear Coddington,

Just had to drop you a line and tell you how glad I am that you decided to come to Davidson. I think you're absolutely right in deciding to stay in the South, although giving up on Princeton must have been awfully hard. I think, though, that no one from Wormsley Forest has regretted coming to Davidson. By the way, is old Bulgebutt still teaching Latin? I know I’ll be seeing you at Raleigh in September (if I can see). I’m one of Cynthia Anne Watlington’s marshals (I’m taking over her roommate from Hollins). Cynthia Anne's a bit of a prig, but the roommate has been known to cure a few. Hope you see your way clear to give the Zeta Xi’s a couple of good dates, we Wormsley Forest guys have got to stick together, you know.

See you down at the house,
Thorns

Brother Jim Smiley
Epsilon Upsilon Chi
Davidson College

Joe G. Ullible
Elm St.
Mt. Pleasant, N.C.

Dear Joe, ol’ buddy,

I guess you're wondering why you're getting mail from a guy you never heard of before, but we'll know each other real well before the second week in September is over, which as you know, is rush week. I’d like to tell you a little about my fraternity, the Ep Ups. Like I was telling our Rush Chief, Al Wheel, who is also vice president of the senior class, a former member of the Beaver Club, a soccer letterman, and a member of O.D.K, we've got to give these guys a true picture of what we Ep Ups are really like. So I'm going to lay it on the line, Joe. We're just a group of plain guys, Joe. We don’t go in for a lot of that mystic stuff you might hear about, but there is a good, solid thing about us that you just can’t put your finger on that knits us together if you know what I mean. Like last spring’s Queen of Hearts Ball when we all gathered around and sang “The Sweetheart Of Ep Up” to our dates.

I know you'll have a lot of questions about fraternities and I'll get in touch with you again at school. I'd really like to see you get in on a good thing, Joe.

See you down at the house,
Jim

The Book Store
Davidson College
Davidson, N.C.

To: Members of the Freshman Class

Dear Freshmen:

We of the Davidson College Book Store would like to acquaint you with theopportunities afforded by our little non-profit enterprise. Our aim is to provide textbooks to all students, regardless of their financial condition. Since we are the only people around here who sell textbooks, we can usually meet our goal. You will readily understand that all wholesale book prices must undergo a slight mark-up to defray minor operating costs which include paper clips, redecorating the Alumni Reception Room, and a $75,000 annual contribution to the Living Endowment. The manager of the bookstore generously works without pay, since over the years, he has amassed a large personal fortune. The hours during which the Book Store stays open are many and varied. We will operate tentatively on the schedule below: Monday through Friday, excepting Tuesday, Thursday, 8:47 a.m. to 9:03 a.m. excepting days when the moon is full, whereupon hours will be changed to 11:27 a.m. to 12:14 p.m. A special “Dollar Day" will be featured on Saturdays, and the store will be open till 9. Yours Truly, The Book Store

Jonathan Wright
Spiritual Life Counselor
S.S.M. Priestly Bishop
Foursquare Pioneer Camp
Montreat, N.C.

Dear Priestly,

From the time I met you when I spoke at your Senior High Fellowship last spring, I've been waiting to welcome you to Davidson College, the teaching arm of the church. I know you were considering L.I.F.E. Bible College but I think for a more mature spiritual outlook, Davidson is the right choice. I'm sure you've been waiting to hear about your college life apart from your studies. You will be happy to know we have a Y.M.C.A. here that is the very breath of college life, a fine active Westminster Fellowship, a Canterbury Club, M.S.F., and of course, my group, the Seekers of Spiritual Maturity. The College also has fraternities. I'm looking forward to discussing things with you at the Pre-College Conclave there in Montreat next month. The key topic, “Conversions on Campus,” is a meaningful one, don't you think?

John by Millner;

I have been embarrassed by the

Saturday, September 17, 1960

PRESIDENT MARTIN

The Editor's Guest

The Davidsonian invited President Martin to initiate its Editor's Guest column for the 1960-61 school term. Throughout the year this space will contain the thoughts of various men, some connected with the college and some not, on various subjects. Anyone wishing to write himself or to suggest a columnist should contact the editor.

Included in this year’s student body of 965 men are 255 freshmen who were selected from almost 1,070 applicants of a quality superior to any group we have had in the past. This means that Davidson’s Class of 1964 is probably equal or superior to the freshman class of any other men’s college in the South, both in academic ability and in the qualities of leadership and participation which we require. The desire of so many outstanding young men to attend Davidson is a tribute to the college and to the record of its alumni, faculty, and students. This “good will” is one of the greatest assets the college has, and the students who are attracted by it will, through their records, contribute to the reputation of the college and to the continued and increased success of the institution.

The process of achieving this highly desirable result has necessitated our declining the applications of more than 500 boys, many of whom were capable of doing satisfactory academic work at Davidson. The decision to reject an application is of course a very serious matter. The Admissions Committee spends a great deal of time and effort in trying to make decisions which will be best for the students involved and best for the entire program of the college. The “standards” for admission to Davidson have improved each year, not because of actions by the Admissions Committee, but by the competition for admission on the part of an increasing number of better-qualified candidates. Since Davidson is an educational institution it is appropriate that the applicant's academic qualifications be given first consideration. But College Board scores and high school grades are by no means the only requirements for admission. The committee gives consideration to other evidence of the student’s capacity to contribute to the life of the college, including character, personality, and participation and leadership in student government, athletics, music, art, journalism, debating, scouting, church organizations, and similar activities. Forty applicants with verbal College Board scores over 600 and 75 applicants with mathematics scores of over 600 were rejected because they did not have other desired qualifications. Special consideration is given to applicants who are sons of alumni or candidates for the ministry, and they will be admitted before other candidates with similar abilities and records. In spite of this, we find it necessary to decline a number of these applicants each year when their qualifications are markedly below those of other applicants.

While the tide of applicants has created many problems for the college and for the applicants and their families, it has strengthened the institution by making possible a student body which is more interested and better prepared for college work. This has enabled us to maintain higher standards of academic performance and has made possible a tremendous reduction in the number of “flunk outs.” For example, 245 students from last year’s freshman class returned as sophomores this year. In addition, the program has helped to assure the admission to graduate schools of practically all of the increasing number of Davidson students who wish to take some kind of graduate work. The high quality of the student body is one of the most effective arguments we have in trying to persuade promising teachers to join our faculty. We are adding personnel and facilities to improve the handling of the admissions program which has become more and more complex each year. We will be grateful for your assistance and your understanding.

Students Applaud New Chapel Policy

The majority of Davidson students will fall in willingly behind the college’s new vespers and chapel policy, according to the consensus of random persons questioned by the Davidsonian this week. President D. Grier Martin’s talk in chapel Thursday evoked new administration for his leadership and program. However, many still have grave doubts of the success he will meet. All those interviewed doubted the problem would be solved immediately and felt it would be a matter of just how far the administration plans to go.

“If they intend to stop even reading of mail, books and papers, they will need 962 monitors,” one commented. “It’s a worthy goal, but over-ambitious,” another said.

“The majority of students conduct and are grateful Martin is taking this stand,” said Scott Lacy. “I believe just a minority causes most of the trouble anyway.”

STUDENT CONTROL

The manner of carrying out the new position remains the issue of greatest concern. Those interviewed felt the correction and discipline should remain in the hands of the student body. Over half, however, felt the faculty would eventually have to intervene. Student supervision was preferred for several different reasons. First, they see this as a student problem and one which students themselves can handle. Secondly, it is believed faculty or trustee action would cause deep resentment and rebellion. Finally, there is a fear the faculty would go overboard and carry the new policy to the extreme.

Alden Millar spoke for many in saying the root of the problem is in programs themselves. “No solution will be complete until they are improved,” he contends. Others maintained that no threat or action could accomplish what superior programs could achieve singularly.

GREAT CHALLENGE

OVER AMBITIOUS,

Student Council President Henry Shue regards the student assembly programs as one of the greatest challenges the campus government will face this year. He is optimistic that abundant resources are available in the student body itself to provide stimulating programs. “To me personally,” he said, “one of the most optimistic things is what underlies this action—a new and unified singleness of purpose among faculty and administration in working to put life in some areas of college life which have had decreasing meaningfulness in recent years.

“Although some of the measures may seem harsh, at this point it is more effective to take sweeping positive steps than to move with hesitation. Whether they admit it or not, the vast majority of students will have greater respect for the faculty, administration, and Student Council.”