Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1960

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

To The Faculty: Why Soph Rush Won't Work

We write this editorial reluctantly, with a little sadness. We have always been in sympathy with the spirit of Sophomore Rush; we heartily approve of its goals. Last spring this newspaper conceded that Sophomore Rush was an actuality. We urged that both the administration and the fraternity system begin immediate preparation for the implementation of the new program. As far as we can see, neither group has done anything significant. Furthermore, we have changed our minds. Last spring, we were skeptical, but we were willing to give Sophomore Rush a try. Now we have come to the conclusion that it is not worth trying.

You have been pestered for three months now with objections to Sophomore Rush. From the standpoint of the fraternity man, some of these objections are valid. It will now cost more to be in a fraternity. Several of the smaller houses may not be able to absorb the expense. This leads to a second objection: two or three fraternities are likely to fold. We admit that this will accomplish one Sophomore Rush goal—the number of Independents will be increased. But we would hesitate to “strengthen” the Independents with men who are disgruntled and bitter because they could not afford to stay in their fraternities or because their chapters were forced to resign their charters.

But these are objections to the system; these are factors that will hurt the fraternities, and many faculty members evidently aren’t too concerned with how badly the fraternities are hurt. What about the system itself? Why won't it work? Why won't it achieve its goals? We have four answers.

1. It will not work because at least 60 percent of the student body is desperately opposed to it. Sophomore Rush was conceived and nurtured by a handful of dedicated people. This handful and a reluctant administration can't make it work when 600 men are fighting it every step.

2. “Dirty rushing” will run rampant. Sophomore Rush advocates scoff at this argument, but they underestimate the dedication of some fraternity men. A boy who is willing to sacrifice a summer job, summer school, or a trip to Europe to spend three months just preparing for one week of rush isn’t likely to let up during the “off season” before Sophomore Rush. About 40 or 50 members of each freshman class will be rushed for a year instead of a week. This rushing may not be quite as strenuous as Rush Week, but it will be concerted, and will be a serious block of effective studying on both upperclass and underclass levels. There is absolutely no way of enforcing any prohibition of rushing over a year’s time.

3. The freshman’s social life will be severely limited. There is no way of getting around the fact. C. Shaw Smith and the Union Committee have grandiose plans for exchange dances, better facilities, more Chinese Checker Boards, etc. But, gentlemen, when the weekend comes, students want to get away from Davidson. They don’t want to stay cooped up in David Ovens Student Union with a checker board and a girl who didn’t have a date for the weekend so she came to Davidson. You say Sophomore Rush will strengthen the Independent group? Why, freshmen will be so glad to pledge a fraternity that the ratio of fraternity members to Independents may very well increase.

4. Sophomore Rush will not put to an end impositions on a pledge’s time. There is a growing attitude among fraternity members that “if we can’t have freshman pledging, we'll give those sophomore pledges all kinds of hell.” Childish? Sure, but that’s beside the point. You argue that the more mature sophomores won't stand for this nonsense? Fraternity men answer you bluntly, and with alarming truth: “They'll stand for anything to get that pin.”

These are our reasons for believing that Sophomore Rush will be a weak and ineffectual system. And what do we offer as an alternative? We make no offer. We leave it up to you. Draw us up a program that you feel is sane, but fair to the fraternity system which has been one of Davidson’s most prominent assets since the turn of the century. The fraternities can either accept it or reject it and accept Sophomore Rush.

Firm, Dignified And Rigorous

The Student Council is delivering the goods as we expected (see last week’s editorial, “The Court’s Last Chance”). At this week’s meeting, the council members, in decisive and unanimous action, voted to combine the offices of Freshman Adviser and the judge of the Court of Control. This action will put new life into the Court, since it will now be in proper perspective as an integral part of freshman orientation. To use the Council’s terminology, the Court will be “firm, dignified and rigorous.”

The Court will not be a guidance or advisory board. It will present the freshmen with the freshmen regulations and will enforce the regulations with vigor. With the “don’t-walk-on-the-grass” regulation tossed aside, the Court stands with a meaningful set of regulations. These regulations deserve enforcement. With the Freshman Adviser guiding the Court, it will move to acquaint the freshman with Davidson traditions and to instill in the freshmen respect for these traditions. The Court will be dignified because it will be pursuing worthy objectives in a worthy fashion. With the Court under the supervision of the Freshman Adviser, the freshmen will look upon the Court with respect.

The Council’s actions should quiet the disgruntled liberals, even though they will not have their advisory committee. On the other hand, these actions will please the supporter of the firm, strong Court because they supply just that — a workable firm, strong Court.

The Council's deliberations on the Court of Control are not yet over. It expects to discuss the Court for at least one more week and possibly for two. The Councilmen still have several items to work on in the Court program, principally, its duration, penalties for violations, and the feasibility of Court chapel sessions. Indications are that the Council will recommend a longer period of duration and stiff penalties for violations. The Council may also take the Court out of chapel entirely. These policies will complete the Court program and will ensure a mature, well-rounded Court of Control in coming years. We congratulate the Council on their careful, thoughtful deliberations and their solid actions.

T. B.C.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
B. Millner

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charlie Rowe

Associate Editors
Tom Colvin
Leonard Richardson

Feature Editor
Ervin Duggan

Copy Editor
Jack Hand

Photographers
Bob Moore
Gene Wells

Managing Editors
David Jordan
Don Saunders
Russ Showalter
Bill Godwin
Jerry Abernathy

Advertising Manager
Olin Nisbet

Circulation Manager
Butler Bennett

Sports Editor
Gene Adcock

Assistant Bus. Manager
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Faculty Hits The Ceiling... Poll Indicates Kennedy Also Has Support Abroad

A stronger foreign policy seems to be anticipated by several Richardson Scholars because of the change in administration of the United States. In a poll conducted by THE DAVIDSONIAN this week, eleven of the fifteen Richardson Scholars were asked, “What will be the reaction in your country to Kennedy’s becoming the next President of the U.S.?”

Most of the eleven students interviewed thought the news of Kennedy's victory would get a positive reaction when it reached their homelands.

KENNEDY'S FATHER

Steve Wood from Surrey, England said that “many people didn’t like Kennedy’s father, so they probably prefer Nixon. I prefer Kennedy myself since I like his social ideals. You Americans are bound to get socialization of some kind some day.”

“Personally, I’m for Nixon,” Richard Dawids from Denmark remarked, “so I'm disappointed over the election. I left home before the campaign really had started, but I think the majority is for Kennedy.”

“NEW F.D.R.”

Kristian Juel thinks the reaction in Norway as a whole will be positive. “Many people at home see in Kennedy a new F.D.R. for several reasons. The socialists and the liberals will rejoice and the conservatives will be more reserved,” Juel added.

Although Uel Schnewlin hesitated to evaluate which candidate was favored most in Switzerland, he said, “In some cases, I noticed that the older generation rather preferred Nixon as more conservative, while many of my own age group chose Kennedy, because he is in many respects an unusual leader...”

FOREIGN POLICY

Four Richardson Scholars from Austria, West Germany, Holland, and Colombia emphasized the impact the new administration will have in the field of foreign policy.

Wolfgang Mayerhofer said, “I think it is the general opinion in Austria that we are looking forward to a change in America’s foreign policy, not in principles but in practice. We’re looking forward to seeing in Kennedy a strong president, a man who can stop Khrushchev's insulting and aggressive behavior...”

GERMANS POSITIVE

Arnold Kroner from West Germany thinks the reaction in West Germanywill be positive, “although the present government would have probably preferred Nixon, because Nixon looks more uncompromising in defending every foot of free land (for example, Quemoy and Matsu). “Also, Nixon doesn't want to negotiate with the Russians, if the Russians don’t show first good will," Kroner continued. “But public opinion probably has been more for Kennedy, because he seems to be more active than Nixon. The German people would like to see the Americans take the offensive in the struggle between the free world and Russia, and not like it is now, that the U.S. always defends only against attacks from Russia.”

CATHOLIC VOTE

According to Kroner, many Germans would rather see a Catholic as President than a Quaker because “the Presbyterian Church is not very popular in Germany.” “Holland will certainly support Kennedy,” Johan Strating stated. Since two-thirds of the seats in the House of Representatives in The Netherlands are held by Catholics and Socialists, Strating inferred that Kennedy’s religion and the fact that he is “more to the socialist side than Nixon” would lead over two-thirds of the Dutch people to favor Kennedy.

“LOST PRESTIGE”

Another student from Holland, Hans Mensink, said, “Since the United States has lost prestige in the world and since the world situation during the past year has been getting worse, the general feeling in Holland is in favor of a change in the administration of the U.S. in favor of Kennedy.” Concerning Colombia, Luis Quintero explained that during Eisenhower’s administration Latin America has expected better cooperation from the U.S. Government in the growth of the two countries. “Unfortunately,” he said, “no particular care has been taken. Many people in Colombia hope Kennedy’s administration will be really concerned about our economic development.”

Anders Trydell from Sweden commented that elections in Sweden this fall have drawn attention away from elections in the U.S., and he was wary of predicting how the sentiment in Sweden would lean. Per Leander, also from Sweden, pointed out how little an “everyday Swede cares about the election” by giving a tongue-in-cheek analysis of the effect in Sweden.

HAIL AUNT MARY!

“So now it’s over, the pivotal event of the year! And the time for the groaning and lamentation in Sweden has come. All the supporters for Mrs. Nixon hid their ‘Pat for first lady’ badges, and in their desperation they decided to stay at home all day. “But as nearly half of the population wanted ‘Jackie for first lady of the Universe,’ there were people enough to start the daily ice-bear hunting and common immoral life at 10 a.m. when their most savage signs of happiness had subsided. “And their joy had such proportions that they invited the Pat-supporters to come out from their hiding places. However, the Viking nation is still split. May it be united in the ‘Caroline for first baby’ movement! Hail Aunt Mary! Hail Uncle Sam!”

“It’s in the bag, boys.”

ial winner. grin. He's had a hard day. acters.’’) Intoxicates Rose, Kennedy

By ERVIN DUGGAN Davidsonian Associate Editor

Editor’s Note: This is the first in a new series of features by Ervin Duggan which will profile people of the Davidson community.

It’s three a.m. in a dim, smoke-filled room at the Dogwood Motel. The chairman of Terry Sanford’s Young Voters in Western North Carolina, puffing on a big cigar, settles in his chair and announces: NBC’s 501 Computer has just coughed up 49-to-one odds in John Kennedy's favor, and Democrat Sanford has already been named North Carolina's gubernatorial winner. Charles Grandison Rose III wears a lazy, confident grin. All afternoon he shuttled back and forth between a Mooresville textile mill and the polls, transporting mill workers—in a car plastered with Democratic posters—to vote. (“Aw, they’re all votin’ for Sanford,” he said, “I just hand them a Sanford card and say ‘Here’s your ticket. Let’s go vote.’ I've really been meetin’ some characters.”)

Earlier he attended a full day of classes, including one in “advanced speech”—a course which has only one student this semester: Charles Grandison Rose III. (His debut as an advanced speaker was a chapel stump speech on behalf of the Democratic ticket; he deplored low wages paid dime store workers in the Eisenhower era. This met with a decidedly cool reception from Davidson’s Republican majority).

Time passes. Kennedy’s lead narrows, stretches to over a million, then narrows again. Charlie Rose, revelling in every tense political moment, rears forward. “Lord, I love this! I think I must have been born for this sort of thing.” (As a freshman, Young Voter Rose considered himself born to be a medical man. Later he did a brief stint as a pre-ministerial student. Present plan: law school, a little politics on the side).

“That dang Gavin. Shoulda conceded long time ago.” Henry Cabot Lodge goes to bed. Rose chuckles. Richard Milhous Nixon turns in with a glum statement. Rose whoops in partisan joy. The 501 Computer grinds out 333-to-one odds, the highest it can manage. Rose nods, busies himself composing a telegram to Governor-elect Sanford. “Rest assured that you have the support of all the state in your journey to the New Frontier for North Carolina.”

More time, more returns. “It’s in the bag, boys.” Sleep threatens, but there’s still a gleam in his eye... as though he’s glimpsing the future. The name. That damn name. Charles Grandison Rose III for Governor. No. Charles G. Rose for Governor. Charlie Rose, the Common Man’s Friend. A vote for Rose is a Vote for... The young voter yawns, sinks in his chair... yawns again.

TANNER’S THESAURUS

Sleep, Girl, Have New Meaning

By JIM TANNER Davidsonian Feature Writer

Whenever an individual enters any particular realm of endeavor, he finds that each different realm has its own vernacular. This vernacular may be composed of entirely new words, or it may simply consist of new meanings for commonplace words. Davidson is a Realm of Endeavor. Davidson men are Endeavorists (even if you leave out Saturday night). Thus Davidson has its own vernacular. (No, that doesn’t mean it smells, Irving). It is similar to the second of the two types mentioned at the start of this masterpiece. Davidson's vernacular is quite subtle; outsiders cannot grasp its hidden meanings, its secret inflections. The words sound like plain old ordinary run-of-the-mill commonplace humdrum simple everyday unspectacular... (pant)... words. But they aren’t. So awright, awreddy, what am I building up to, you ask. (Go on, ASK). Here it is, kiddies: gather around the flickering campfire, or frosty pitcher, or whatever, while I regale you with a selection of words that have changed in meaning for me!

HOME—a place that gets more attractive every day. SLEEP—a verb synonymous with fail. GRADES—(usually preceded by the adjective bad) a means of determining how much sleep someone gets: good grades, no sleep. BROTHER—any one of a group of perhaps fifty comparative strangers to whom lifelong devotion and loyalty has been sworn. MONEY—... come again? TIME, FREE—... come again again? REVIEW—has a direct relationship to sleep: hours of sleep are inversely proportional to number of reviews. STUDY—an act performed dutifully by the admirable few who can survive without eating, sleeping, going anywhere, or having any fun. GIRL—something there ain’t never hardly any of. CHURCH—a place where everyone congregates when the mood strikes them. MEALS—what are crammed down in the morning and afternoons, enjoyed at supper, and drunk on Saturday night. IMPOSSIBLE—due tomorrow. UP THE ROAD—a place, not a direction, where Saturday night’s meals are usually purchased.

There are many more such words—words that will never be the same. This is not good. The average human being is not strong enough to withstand these mental rearrangements. Hence most Davidson graduates spend the rest of their lives screaming “No! I'll fail!” at the mention of sleep; trying to discover what having money is like; drinking their meals; and trying to make up for years spent without the companionship of “what there weren’t never hardly any of.”

LISTEN! DO YOU THINK SNOOPY SEES A BURGLAR? No, THAT ISN'T HIS “BURGLAR BARK.” THAT’S HIS “BARKING JUST FOR THE SAKE OF BARKING” BARK!