DOLE DARES Foes to Score (See Page Three) VOL. XLIX The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE,
DAVIDSON, N. C. Saturday, September 17, 1960 THE EDITOR'S Guest See Page Two NO. ONE Fraternities Pin 209 Freshmen As
Week Of Rushing Closes 81 pct. Of Class Of ‘64 Administration, Council Rap Student Misconduct The administration and faculty, and
the Student Council in separate action took steps to curb misconduct in chapel and in vespers. The action by the
two groups climaxed discussion which began last spring. President D. Grier Martin in his address to the student body Thursday
morning announced the new policy regarding chapel, and a mimeographed sheet was distributed to all students explaining the new rules.

ALTERED SCHEDULE The chapel schedule has been altered, with Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday designated as assembly days. The responsibility of
securing speakers and programs for the Monday assemblies was assigned to the Student Council. The Tuesday assembly was designated for
non-religious programs and the Thursday chapel was set aside for religious programs. In another new policy, students not in their
assigned seats by 10:20 will be considered absent and tardies have been abolished. To compensate for the discontinuance of all
tardies, free cuts in chapel will be increased to eight for freshmen and sophomores and to 12 for juniors and
seniors.

BEHAVIOR RULES The new rules announced by Dr. Martin also state that students whose behavior interferes with chapel programs will
be subject to disciplinary action up to and including required withdrawal from the college. By: TOM COLVIN Davidson Assistant Editor
There will be no announcements made at chapel with the exception of emergency announcements approved by the president. Instead, mimeographed
sheets containing announcements will be distributed at the doors of the auditorium following the Monday and Thursday assemblies. He said
that the new policy is the product of a long period of discussion.

TRUSTEE RESOLUTION Last May the Trustees adopted a resolution stating their stand on required assemblies: ". . . the Trustees
have reaffirmed their conviction that required religious exercises are a vital and necessary part of the program of Davidson as
a Christian college, and that we expect the full cooperation of the administration, faculty, and students in making this program
effective. This recommendation envisions the taking of any disciplinary measures which may be necessary to see that student behavior at
prescribed religious services is in keeping with proper standards of courteousness and orderliness at all times. This applies also to
student behavior at other prescribed exercises not of a religious nature.” In an interview with the DAVIDSONIAN, President Martin said,
“I have thought about this problem more than any other because I am so ashamed of what some people have
had to put up with.”

Shue Reads Riot Act To Freshman Upstarts As a result of the freshman riot Sunday night, the Student Council in
a special session Monday morning, passed a recommendation to the Executive Committee of the faculty stating that any future rioting
be automatically followed by a cancellation of all cut privileges of the entire freshman class. This would include classes, student
assemblies and chapels, and Vespers. The Student Council further recommended that the penalty for any cutting of these activities after
such action has been taken be the same as for over-cutting—i.e., campusing or loss of quality points of the individual
student. Judgment as to what constitutes a riot would be made by the Student Council. The riot occurred Sunday night,
September 11, on the lawn in front of Belk Dormitory. The Executive Committee issued the following statement: “The Executive Committee
is opposed to student riots as a matter of principle and will give serious consideration to the recommendation of the
Student Council concerning any student or group of students involved in a riot. The Committee will not hesitate to restrict
cut privileges or to impose heavier penalties if the situation should warrant it.” The modified chapel schedule was adopted last
spring shortly after the meeting of the Trustees by the Religious Life Committee. Other parts of the new policy were
developed during the summer, Dr. Martin said. The recommendations for the new policy were presented at the faculty meeting Monday
and were approved.

NO OBJECTION President Martin added that he has no objection to other persons holding different views on compulsory exercises. However,
he said that he would not defend anyone guilty of misconduct because the new policy was approved by the proper
authorities. The Student Council in action Monday voted to enforce a policy designed to halt misconduct in vespers. Beginning this
Sunday, members of the Student Council will report any act of misconduct in vespers which comes under their observation, council
president Henry Shue said. Student Council members will sit in the back of the church and in the balcony during
vespers services. Shue pointed out that the council action was unrelated to the faculty action of the same day. He
said that last spring the council agreed to take “positive action” in regard to misconduct in vespers. The council last
spring was unwilling to accept the responsibility of conduct in chapel, however, Shue noted that the faculty action pertained specifically
to chapel conduct, leaving vesper conduct in the hands of the council. Shue said that the council action implemented the
decision it made last spring.

KEEP SELF-GOVERNMENT “We feel it important that students maintain self-government in this area,” Shue said. “We don't want to force
the faculty to step in because of our holding back.” Shue added that the council took the action because it
thinks misconduct at vespers is unnecessary. He said the council defined misconduct as “anything disturbing or discourteous to any other
person or the speaker.” Shue said that the council was putting its action into force immediately, before the problem of
misconduct could get out of hand. “We don't like the idea of being policemen and find the difficulty, and upon
his return he stated that the “Handbook” was slated to go to the press this past week. The “Wildcat Handbook”
has been released annually for more than fifty years and is published specifically for new students to

Young, Gaines Lauded This summer at ROTC camp Davidson College cadets made a creditable showing. During the six-week period at
Fort Bragg, North Carolina, 35 of the 85 men from Davidson were recommended as Distinguished Military Cadets. Although the group
from Davidson comprised only 6% of the group of 1420 at camp, they represented 21% of the Top Men in
the Platoon. The Davidson cadets accounted for 12% of the Second Men in the company and 19% of the Second
Men in the Platoon. Two Davidson cadets, Stanley F. Gaines and Robert C. Young, were cited as being particularly outstanding
in the competition. Gaines competed in the final competition for the Best in Camp. The winner of the Best in

Wildcat Handbook Delayed By Proofs “Wildcat Handbook,” annual publication of the Davidson College YMCA, has been delayed and will not
be issued to students for at least two more weeks. The “Handbook” is usually mailed to new students during the
summer and is available to upperclassmen upon return to the college. Charles Ringe, editor of the publication, stated that the
delay involved a holdup in proofs that were sent to the publisher in Atlanta, Georgia. Ringe flew to Atlanta last
Monday to confer on the difficulty, and upon his return he stated that the “Handbook” was slated to go to
the press this past week. The “Wildcat Handbook” has been released annually for more than fifty years and is published
specifically for new students togive them an introduction to the whole thing unpleasant,” Shue said. The various activities and phases
of Davidson College life.

Students Camp Award was a cadet from Wake Forest, but it is interesting to note that he was second to
Davidson's Robert Young in company competition. He was unable to compete for Best Camp because he left camp early. Gaines
also received the distinction of being selected Team Captain for Warrior of the Pacific, a marksmanship award. Cadets Young and
Gaines will hold the post of brigade commander this year, Young the first semester and Gaines the second semester.

This afternoon 209 freshmen took the long walk around the Patterson Fraternity Court to pledge the fraternity of their choice.
Between the hours of 5:00 and 4:30 p.m. some $1.62 of the class of '64 accepted fraternity bids. Silence night
until 4:30 p.m. was in connection with a fraternity.

Today's hectic week of rushing began Saturday, September 10th at 8:00 a.m. On Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday nights each fraternity
held three one-hour rush parties beginning at 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 p.m. Freshmen having dates for the last two days
attended three rush parties from 8:00 to 10:15 during which having an official was not allowed to influence a rushee.
The following pledged fraternities:

SIGMA CHI
Roy Alexander, Jeff Young, Agnew, Gene Whitaker, Philip Burks Jr., Dick Fromm, Richard Gaines.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Roy Alexander, Jeff Young, Agnew, Gene Whitaker, Philip Burks Jr., Dick Fromm, Richard Gaines.

PHI DELTA THETA
Roy Alexander, Jeff Young, Agnew, Gene Whitaker, Philip Burks Jr., Dick Fromm, Richard Gaines.

PI KAPPA PHI
Roy Alexander, Jeff Young, Agnew, Gene Whitaker, Philip Burks Jr., Dick Fromm, Richard Gaines.

SIGMA NU
Roy Alexander, Jeff Young, Agnew, Gene Whitaker, Philip Burks Jr., Dick Fromm, Richard Gaines.

ALPHA TAU OMEGA
Roy Alexander, Jeff Young, Agnew, Gene Whitaker, Philip Burks Jr., Dick Fromm, Richard Gaines.

KAPPA ALPHA
Roy Alexander, Jeff Young, Agnew, Gene Whitaker, Philip Burks Jr., Dick Fromm, Richard Gaines.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Roy Alexander, Jeff Young, Agnew, Gene Whitaker, Philip Burks Jr., Dick Fromm, Richard Gaines.

BETA THETA PI
Roy Alexander, Jeff Young, Agnew, Gene Whitaker, Philip Burks Jr., Dick Fromm, Richard Gaines.

MacLeish To Initiate New Lecture Series

Archibald MacLeish will deliver on November 2 and 3, the first lectures in the new Reynolds Distinguished Lectureships Series, college
officials have announced. MacLeish, best known for his recent Pulitzer prize-winning play, “J. B.,” has served in a number of
positions in the federal government. He was librarian of Congress from 1939 to 1944 and director of the U.S. Office
of Facts and Figures in 1941 and 1942. He was assistant to the secretary of state during the final two
years of World War II.

Writer Since 1920's

MacLeish has been a recognized writer for over 30 years, his first books being published in the late 1920's. He
has won a number of awards for his writing including the National Book Award in 1953 and a Pulitzer Prize
in 1958. He was president of the American Academy of Arts and Letters from 1953 to 1956. He is presently
a professor at Harvard.

Dean Frontis Johnston, chairman of the lectureship committee, said that his committee was looking for a good scholar and one
who could communicate well. He added that the committee wanted a “prominent and outstanding scholar.”

$450,000 Donation

The Reynolds Distinguished Lectureship series was set up with part of the $450,000 donated to the college last December by
the Smith Reynolds Foundation. With the foundation’s approval, $100,000 was put into an endowment for the lecture fund. The return
from the endowment will provide funds for three to five speakers a year, Dean Johnston said.

The lectureship guests will be brought to the campus for two or three days, Johnston said. During this time, the
lecturer will attend classes and meet with discussion groups and individuals, besides giving formal lectures. Johnston said that no definite
plans have been made yet as to MacLeish’s activities on campus. However, he said, MacLeish will probably deliver his first
lecture on the evening of November 2 and will probably speak at chapel the following morning. The topics of MacLeish’s
lectures have not been announced.
