DAVIDSON-HIGH POINT RELAYS HERE TOMORROW (See Page Three)

VOL. XLVIII ~~ DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Court Jerry Cole was elected president of the 1960-61 Interfraternity Council last Monday night. The new council also chose Bob
Moore, secretary, and Quinton Boyd, treasurer. Cole, a rising senior, is a member of Kappa Sigma. He was a member
of the Honor Court this past year and is a letterman in baseball. Cole, who is majoring in business administration,
is a member of the Board of Directors of the Business Economics Association.

Cole expressed his opinion that Greek Week this year was a step in the right direction and that he hopes
that this will continue. According to Cole, the IFC is looking forward to working up plans for the new concert
series. He stated that this must have student backing for effectiveness. There is a possibility of having three concerts and
two lectures, or vice-versa. Cole promised that the IFC would continue to be a service organization with the interests of
the students being channeled through the IFC representatives.

Bob Moore, of Alpha Tau Omega, was the managing editor of the DAVIDSONIAN last year and is now an associate
editor. He is an honors student in history and is a rising senior.

Quinton Boyd, of Pi Kappa Phi, is also a rising senior. He is majoring in mathematics. Cole said that he
is well pleased with the composition of the new IFC and is looking forward to working with its members. Speaking
of plans for next year, Cole said that emphasis will be placed on providing entertainment that the majority of the
students prefer. He stated that the IFC will make a definite effort to get student opinion on dance bands, concerts,
and the type of music they prefer. Cole also stated that the IFC hoped to run Rush Week as smoothly
and effectively as possible. Plans are being made to move Greek Week up to as soon after the beginning of
the second semester as possible, perhaps the first or second week of the semester, so that it will interfere less
with studies.

Dr. George Herbert of the North Carolina Research Triangle will speak at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity house Monday night
at 7:30. Dr. Herbert will introduce students to the career opportunities open in the Triangle. He is particularly interested in
outlining liberal arts studies which are needed to obtain top positions in this field. Other aspects of the Research Triangle
and its progress will be discussed.

The Student Council voted last Monday night to continue the Court of Control with a revised set of Freshman Regulations.
These regulations are essentially the same as those in effect last fall. The most important change is the shorter length
of the term during which the regulations will be in effect.

After much discussion as to how long the regulations should be in effect, the Council passed a motion which gives
the Freshman Adviser the power to set the date of Freshman-Sophomore day sometime during the week preceding Homecoming. Freshmen will
be required to have a name card on the doors of the dormitory rooms, but they will not be required
to buy a printed sheet of Freshman Regulations to post in their rooms. The Council agreed to maintain the Court
of Control next year. In regard to held, the Council agreed that ridiculous charges be weeded out, and that the
Court meet once a week. Henry Shue, Student Body President, appointed a committee to draw up a slate of nominations
for the Court of Control.

In view of the Council's decision to continue the Court of Control to enforce the Freshman Regulations and to try
offenders, Shue commented on his earlier campaign statement as Religious Life Committee Representative. This Committee, which is made up of
students, faculty, and administration, sets the policy for the total religious life of the campus.

The Faculty Committee on Graduate Scholarships and Fellowships is holding an open meeting in the Green Room of the College
Union at 4 p.m., Thursday, May 5, for all freshmen, sophomores, and juniors who are interested in preparing for graduate
school. The local representatives of the Woodrow Wilson, Rockefeller, Danforth, Rhodes, and other competitive scholarships will be present with information
for next year’s seniors who are expecting to be applicants for scholarships. The Committee hopes that underclassmen who may be
interested in graduate school and wish to know what is involved in preparation for their particular fields of study and
for competitive scholarships and fellowships will come to the meeting. Davidson College holds at present an enviable record in the
number of students who have won scholarships in national competition. The Committee feels, however, that a number of students disqualify
themselves because they learn too late what is required.

Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary society, will initiate and sponsor a Writer’s Conference here next Saturday, May 7. Six schools are
participating in the program. Representatives will be attending from all the schools but the last two, and a number of
them will also serve as critics. After each author reads his work, there will be a prepared criticism by another
student. A discussion will follow, Starling explained. Local critics will be Ed Spivey, Ervin Duggan, Pruitt, and Jack Lohman.

The conference will begin unofficially on Friday night at 8:30 in the Honorary Fraternity House. Meredith will speak to an
open meeting of Sigma Upsilon. He will read and discuss a number of his poems. He will lecture again on
Saturday at a luncheon in the Union Ballroom at 1:00. Tickets for the luncheon cost $1.75 and may be bought
from Starling or Don Stowell by Friday night, May 6. There is no charge for two general sessions of the
conference on Saturday, from 10:30-12:30 and from 2:30-5:00 in the ballroom. However, a bound copy of all the works to
be read will be available for $.25. Short stories and poems have been submitted by students from Davidson, Converse, Queens,
Pfeiffer, Duke, and the University of Virginia. Students who will have their works read before the conference are Dabney Stuart,
Larry Smith, Ben Cole, Bill Pruitt, and Jim Williams.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1960

Lacy A. Cole Will Hold New IFC Rein

Moore, Boyd Assume Other Council Posts

SCOTT LACY

QUALITY OF FRIDAY CHAPEL MUST IMPROVE (See Page Two)

Davidsonian Chairman, Bobby Livingston, also informed the Student Council of the resignation of two juniors from the Court, Jerry Cole
and Jim Anderson. Both have served on the Court since its inception last spring. Their action necessitates an election for
replacements. A joint Student Council-Faculty committee will nominate four candidates for the two positions next week. They will be announced
in chapel Friday and additional nominations may be made at that time. Balloting will begin at 9:00 a.m. on Monday,
May 9 and continue until two candidates receive a majority of the votes. Only the rising senior class will vote.Feel
that the Honor Court has definitely proved itself this year and that there is a legitimate place for it separate
from the Student Council. Trials have been conducted more easily and efficiently this year, and there has been more concern
on the part of members of the court than in previous years when the Student Council handled violations of the
Honor System.

The $100,000 Reynolds Lectures program, which will begin next fall, was discussed by President Martin in a recent DAVIDSONIAN interview.
This program will bring from five to ten outstanding figures in the academic world to Davidson for a visit, during
which they will give lectures, hold seminars, meet with students and faculty, and visit classes. Dr. Martin stated, “It would
be difficult to conceive of another use which could have as much value by bringing Davidson men as to much
ability and renown in specialized areas, which will strengthen our academic program.”

Meredith will also be participating in the Friday chapel program. He will address the student body and also present the
annual Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing. The contest, under the administration of the English Department, was open to
the student body.

Will Hattie’s Close Tomorrow Night?

“You know just as much as I do,” Hattie Morgan, proprietor of the Trucker’s Inn, replied to a question concerning
her beer license renewal. “I’ve made four or five calls this week, but they (the ABC Board) told me that
they didn’t know anything.” Hattie and five other nearby beer distributors face loss of their licenses this weekend due to
a rule in the college charter. There has been much speculation that by some turn of events none of these
distributors will be forced to forego selling beer. However, it appears that the law will be enforced. The DAVIDSONIAN contacted
several Charlotte distributors by phone recently. They indicated that they had taken no action on the matter and had not
reached any decision on what course of action they might take. The director of the state ABC Board was not
available for comment.

President Martin expressed appreciation to the Reynolds Foundation for permission to use part of the $450,000 grant in this way.
He also pointed out that the program was “as much our idea as theirs.” The committee which will administer the
program is headed by Dean Frontis W. Johnston. Other members are Dr. W. P. Cumming, Dr. W. O. Puckett, and
Dr. Rhodes, who will join the faculty next year. Because the program is so new, no participants in the program
have yet been announced, and no specific details are available.

AED Gives Award To Local Chapter

The Davidson chapter of the Alpha Epsilon Delta Fraternity, international pre-medical fraternity, has received a trophy for outstanding work over
the past two years. This trophy, known as the National Achievement Award, was accepted by Rick Aderhold of the Davidson
chapter at the National Convention held at the University of Louisville in Louisville, Kentucky in April. This award is one
of the three given in three different categories. It is based on service to community, college, and students. These services
include special services to the community, to the college, and to pre-medical students. These special services consist of informative programs
to freshmen during orientation period, open meetings, first-aid, and films and lectures. Other areas include high membership requirements, field trips,
and publicity. This National Achievement Award was awarded following the presentation at the convention of a report written by the
historian, Bob Croom. The trophy will soon be on display in the Dana Science Building.

Anderson, Cole Quit, Force New Election

By WARREN COLLINS
Staff Writer

The election of Scott Lacy and Harrison Wellford as new Chairman and Secretary, respectively, of the Honor Court was announced
Thursday night by outgoing Chairman, Henry Shue. Newly-installed student body President, Henry Shue, and new Honor Court Chairman, Scott Lacy,
both agree on the effective function and success of the Honor Court during its first year. Neither favor its reabsorption
by the Student Council.

BASIC PROGRAM

The policy and basic program of Shue and Lacy for the Honor Court’s coming year include asking the Student Council
to appropriate money to buy tapes and a recorder in order to make a permanent record of each trial and
to standardize trial procedure by constitutional amendment (for example—there is at present no stated quorum necessary for the functioning of
the Honor Court). President Shue said also, “I think we need to clarify the question of whether or not an
Honor Court member must resign permanently before running for another office—such as a student body office. Also, the Honor Court
should have the additional power of bringing impeachment proceedings against student body officers who act out of accord with the
constitution. I would also say that the objection of some that students are not qualified and capable of judging fellow
students is not a valid one as long as it is possible to appeal a student decision to the faculty.”

DRINKING QUESTION

Lacy has also stated that he would like a definite statement of the drinking question as it concerns the Honor
Court.

James Howard

By MEL McKENZIE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“What can I sell ya? Don’t worry ‘bout the cost!” said to this student who was blowing a mouth-harp. “What's
that, Bach or Mozart?” Dr. Fredericksen— “. . . a professor who is living 20 years ahead of his time.
Good prophet, always saying what the school should do. Next year, he’ll have the freshmen doing research!” He’s James William
Howard, known as “Doc,” who helps the guys with their unknowns and shows them how to read their burettes. “Test
tubes, beaker, flask, red litmus? . . . filter paper?” he urges. “I give my customers the old Jew procedure
and he doesn’t quite know what to think. Before long, I've convinced ‘em that they need apparatus. Most of the
time I get ‘em to sign a piece of paper, except when they want matches. That's when I say, ‘Cash
over the counter!’” James grinned. “Who taught me about chemistry? It was old professor Alexander Vavolius. He gave me instructions
on mixing chemicals, but I now rely on Dr. Gallent.” James said that his job consists of janitorial work in
the chemistry stock room. “My morning is devoted to answering the telephone,” he smiled.

When asked what he thought about the professors in the chemistry department, James pondered a moment, chin in hand.

Mr. Thies—“I think of him as the backbone of this department. He's my faculty advisor, a suggestion and a solution
to all my problems.”

Dr. Bryant—“... who carries a warm smile all the time.”

Dr. Logan—“... never too much to say, but sometimes he'll make you laugh for dear life. I thought he only
cared for chemistry, but then one day he said to this student who was blowing a mouth-harp, ‘What's that, Bach
or Mozart?’”

Dr. Gallent—“... a very busy professor... needs a secretary ... can’t say no. Along with his sinus, he’s okay.”

On Dr. Martin: “President Martin is capable for the job, (Continued On Page Four)
