FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Catfish Hit C

SIDE LINES ON SPORTS
By B. MILLNER

RANDOM SHOTS... DAVE HOLLINGSWORTH, leading scorer on last year’s basketball team and one of the conference’s best rebounders, spent most of the winter playing AAU ball with a Seattle, Wash., entry, the Buchaneers. He is now working for a real estate concern in California. Big Dave, who did not start for the Buchaneers, but saw considerable reserve duty, played against the Russian All-Star team that toured America last year. Playing in the same AAU league are the Phillips 66 Oilers, Peoria Caterpillars, and the Vickers Oilers, all of which contributed players to the American team in the Pan American Games. Hollingsworth, in a letter to Bill Shinn, commented that he didn’t feel bad sitting on the bench when he looked over and saw All-Americans Lou Pucillo and Gene Tormohleon warming the boards on the other side of the court. Hollingsworth is biding his time until he goes into the service. After a six-month hitch in the army he plans to go to law school at Willamette University in Oregon and will help pay his way by coaching the Willamette freshman basketball team.

BILL SHINN, who led this year’s scorers with a 14 plus average, was Davidson’s lone representative on the all-conference teams that have been released so far. We didn’t scratch on the Southern Conference Sportswriters Association poll but Shinn was accorded an honorable mention on the UPI team.

THE EMORY COACH watched his boys lose race after race in last Friday’s swimming meet here and, with a desperate stratagem, tried to enter two ineligible swimmers. Announcer Jennings “The Body” Snider in the heat of battle wrote the entries down in the score book and was about to announce them before he was stopped. The names? Johnny Weismuller and Buster Crabbe.

THE 1960 SWIMMING TEAM may well be the best athletic team at Davidson since the days of Lacy Keesler and Corky Clark in tennis, when Davidson won two conference titles in a row. Members of this year’s tank team have broken, over a two-year period, every pool record except those set by the great Tommy Rivers in the sprints in 1956. They set five new records in the space of nine days this year. In Coach Dwight Shoe’s vernacular, “They’re doin’ a helluva job.”

WE HUMBLY ADMIT that we owe an apology. We owe it to none other than Davidson’s intramural Fey non pareil, Charles Mangrum Reed of Waynesville. A sometime-pseudo-athlete of dubious amateur standing, he is known to sports fans as a killer on the ping-pong table, organizer of the hitherto undefeated Young Asses, fierce stylist at jai alai, and veteran of countless Peon Army encounters. He approached this writer not long ago, towered over him in the splendor of unparalleled bone and sinew, and thundered, “You misspelled it!” “Misspelled what?” we quavered. “It is not McCauley, as in cauliflower, but McCallie, as in call!” he spat. So, we apologize.

SC Grapple Meet Here Next Week

The Southern Conference Wrestling Tournament will be held here in Johnston Gymnasium next Thursday and Friday. It will be the first time that the meet has been held here. The first session will get under way at 2:00 on Friday, with the semi-finals coming at 8:00 that night. The consolations will be held at 2:00 on Saturday. Students may purchase a special tournament ticket that includes all four sessions for $1.00, or individual session tickets for $.50 each. Some of the best wrestlers in this section of the country will be in competition. There are only two divisions in which there are not defending champions. In the 123-pound division will be Bob Bowman of V.P.I. and in the 130-pound division, his teammate, Brandon Glover, who was third in the nation last year. Another V.P.I. boy, Joe Heller, will defend his championship in the 137-pound class. There is no returning champion in the 147-pound division, and Davidson's Milton Gee, last year’s runner-up, should do well in that class. In the 157-pound division will be Billy Daniels of V.M.I., while West Virginia's Charles Sherwood returns in the 167-pound division. There is no defending champion in the 177-pound class, and Davidson sophomore Jim Alexander will be one of the top men there. In the heavyweight division, Dennis Merklinger of V.M.I. returns to defend his championship. “We won't beat anybody as a team,” said Coach Parker. “Gee, Alexander and heavyweight Alex Porter ought to make good showings for us, though.” Davidson, with a 2-5 record, is suffering its worst season since 1955, when the record was 2-6. The postponed contest with V.P.I. has been cancelled, leaving the matmen one more match, Pfeiffer on Monday. If the ’Cats take this one, as Parker expects, the final season record will be 3-5. The freshmen had a 0-4 record this year, but Parker expects help from Ben McCoy, who went undefeated. Tom Wright, Ken Barger, Ed Peel, Charles Trask, and Charlie Sasser, in the lower weights next year. Heavyweight John Cameron should also help.

Catfish In Climax Southern Loop Lead Hangs In The Balance
By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Coach Shoe’s Catfish left for Charleston this afternoon for their last and most crucial regular season meet. Having won eight of nine meets, the Wildcats will be pitted tomorrow against The Citadel, undefeated in eight meets. The finals will start at 8:00 Saturday night.

SPRINTER BARRY BRANCH crouches on the block waiting for the starter’s gun. Branch swam anchor on the record-breaking medley relay team last Friday. (Davidsonian Photo by Gene Wells).

Cagers Dismal
By JIM
80-70 win over Pembroke. 5-19 mark for the season. It is one of the worst records the ’Cats have compiled in several years but the outlook for next year may be brighter. Only Ed Stewart and John Huie will be lost to graduation. A host of sophomores will form the nucleus of next year’s team.

Sig Eps Lead Handball
By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Rain once again washed out the Inter-Fraternity track finals this week. For the third straight Thursday Coach Whittle had to reschedule the meet for next Thursday. In other IF action, only the SAE’s and Sigma Chis remained undefeated in basketball ranks, while the Sig Eps took the lead in the handball race by winning three big games and remaining unbeaten. As usual, Monday night’s basketball action saw the ATO’s open with a 37-36 win over the Phi Delts. Booker Clark's 16 points clobbered the Sigma Nus by 56-21. On Wednesday, the Independents rolled to a 50-21 victory over the Sig Eps. Rick Lowery paced the winners with 10, while Dan Clemmer got 11 for the losers. A 24-point performance by Hight Redmond paced the KA’s to a 57-44 win over the Pikas, despite a 22-point effort by Keith Fraser. Still rolling, the SAE’s downed the Pi Kapps, 46-37, with Ed Hines, 19, and Doug Orr, 14, leading the way. Quinton Boyd led the Pi Kapps with 17, while Andy Allen pinned 37-36.13 contributed 15 to the Sig Ep cause throughout the game, but Bob Denham pulled the Phi's through with 11. Tom Ridenhour got 14 as they whipped the Conduff tie.

Chis Pace Cagers as Dave Warden scored 4 big ones in the extra period and 12 for the night. Quinton Boyd led the losers with 14. Meanwhile, the Sig Eps were grabbing the lead in the handball race by whipping the Independents on Monday, the Betas on Tuesday, and the Phi Delts on Wednesday. Led by John Warlick, the SPE’s have displayed real power and good form on the handball courts. Other games of the week included the following: Monday — KA's downed the Phi Gams, the SAE’s bested the Sigma Chis, the ATO’s whipped the Pi Kapps, and the Sigma Chis beat the Kappa Sigs. Tuesday — the Phi Gams defeated the Pikas, the KA’s beat the Sigma Nus, the Independents battered the Sigma Chis, and the SAE’s beat the Pi Kapps. Wednesday — the Pikas downed the Sigma Chis.

Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson ended the 1960 basketball season with a place. More than one point. Hoping to pull an upset, and highest average, many contenders for this cup varying not. Citadel whipped the Gamecocks. If Davidson comes out on top, the Southern Conference lead will be thrown into a four-way tie: Davidson, The Citadel, VMI, and VPI. The loop tourney will be held next Thursday thru Saturday at Charleston. Shoe said this week that tomorrow's splash would hinge on the 220 yd. and 440 yd. freestyle events.

HUDGINS KEY MAN

“The Cadets have a boy named Hunter who should force Hudgins to give it all he’s got,” said Shoe. Hudgins will be swimming in both freestyles plus the 400 yd. freestyle relay. In other events, the lineup looks like this:
400 yd. medley relay — Tom Smith, John Scott, George Gable, and Barry Branch.
50 yd. freestyle — Bill Hellier
200 yd. individual medley — Branch
Diving — Jack Rose and Bill Whittington
200 yd. butterfly — Scott
100 yd. freestyle — Hellier
200 yd. backstroke — Smith
200 yd. breaststroke — Scott

Shoe was undecided on the final 400 yd. freestyle relay. Mutual opponents of the two teams include South Carolina, Georgia, and Georgia Tech. The Citadel whipped the Gamecocks 159-30, while Davidson breezed by them 77-17. Scores on the beaten Georgia squads were about the same.

RECORDS FALL

“All my boys are in good shape,” said Shoe. They were in good shape and good style last Friday as they romped over Emory here. Two more pool records fell in the Emory meet as the Catfish set their fifth new mark in nine days. Diver Jack Rose displayed near flawless form in setting a new point total at 172.9. The 400-yard medley relay team smashed the old mark by five seconds in posting a 4:15.1 time.

LOOP TOSS-UP

The conference meet next week will be a toss-up. But Shoe figures VMI “is definitely No. 1.” He rated the Wildcats third behind The Citadel, with VPI fourth. Davidson's only loss was to VMI. “We don't count on any trouble from William and Mary,” Shoe added. The main worry of Coach Shoe for both The Citadel and the conference meets will be depth. The Catfish don’t have it, but the other teams do. “The boys have spirit, though, and I think we can beat VMI this time around.”

Finish

Davidson's ROTC rifle team walloped N. C. State last Friday 1391-1364 on the home range. The Wildcats’ Stan Gaines shot for 286 points and Don Harper garnered 280 points. The Davidson ROTC team fired its last volley this year in the Western Carolina Conference, today at Wofford. Davidson defended its last year's championship. The Wildcat fire team packed a 5-1 record and close-contending Furman boasted a 4-2 mark before the match.

Season

PRESSLY

The win gave the ’Cats a team headed by guards Jerry Bussell and Tom Harris. Sophomore forwards Allan Miller and D. G. Martin, along with center Bob Moore, will be counted on heavily next year. Also returning will be juniors Joe Markee, Bill Shinn, and Jim Nuckells. In regard to the promising freshmen, Coach Hunt commented, “We're counting heavily on Bill Jarman and Heywood Evans next year.” Last Saturday at Charleston, The Citadel dropped the ’Cats by a 92-65 score. After a close first half, Citadel leading 39-38, the Cadets pulled out to a quick lead and coasted to a win. Jerry Bussell was high for Davidson with 13 points. Graves and Daniels had 30 and 20 respectively for Citadel.

The final game, and one of the bright spots of a dismal season, saw the ’Cats defeat Pembroke 108-68. Bussell led the ’Cats with 28 points, and Big Ed Stewart had 18. For Pembroke, Pugh was high with 26 points.

The frosh ended the season with a 5-7 record. In the last two games, Davidson absorbed defeats at the hands of Pfeiffer and Wingate. Pfeiffer took the Wildkittens by a 68-64 score. They led at half 35-27. Jarman had 23 and Evans 24 to lead the frosh scoring. Against Wingate, the loss of Bill Jarman hurt. When the center badly sprained his ankle early in the game, the Wildkittens were up 16-6. Coach Hunt said, “With Jarman out, they caught us at the half and went on to win.” Evans and Duvall both had 18 to lead Davidson scoring. Wingate’s victory margin was 76-58.

AT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST

Air Force

But soft! What taste from yonder FILTER-BLEND!... This filter, be it e’er so pure and white Must needs give flavor too, full clear and bright Else would the trusting smoker, filled with hope Again be dashed, dejected be... and mope.

ITS WHAT'S UP FRONT THAT COUNTS

And thus we come to Winston's obvious truth it's what's up front that counts — and 'tis, forsooth In that the fine tobaccos, in the end Are by exclusive process—Filter-Blend— Become the tastiest taste that e'er hath played Across your dancing taste-buds, man or maid! Be ye not slow, therefore, to test the wit Of what we say: that Winston, friend, is it; For that with ev'ry smoke ye do delay Ye are not gath'ring rosebuds while ye may!

“We are advertised by our loving friends...”
KING HENRY VI, PART III, ACT V, SC. 1

©. R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.