TRUSTEE SPECIAL VOL. XLVI

Trustees Convene For Annual Meeting

Trustees: The Arbiters of Davidson's Destiny

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1960

The Board of Trustees of Davidson College is a legal corporate body, established in 1838 by an act of the
Legislature of North Carolina, granting all rights to control and supervise the college and to be the legal owner of
college property. Originally limited to forty-eight in number, the board can now expand its membership to a maximum size of
one hundred. All but twelve are elected from the Presbyteries of Albemarle, Asheville, Bethel, Concord, Fayetteville, Greenville, Kings Mountain, Mecklenburg,
Orange, Wilmington, Winston-Salem, Florida, St. Johns, Sewanee, Westminster, Everglades, and others that may become associated with Davidson College. The remaining
twelve are elected by the Alumni Association.

In his book, Memories of Davidson College, the late Dr. Walter L. Lingle asks, “What are the functions of the
trustees? They should first of all elect the president of the college, the professors and other administrative officers, determine the
general policies and objectives of the college.” This responsibility includes the constitution and laws of the college. The trustees are
elected for four-year periods, staggered so that one-fourth go out of office each year. Meetings are held on the third
Wednesday in February and on the third Thursday in May, and any other time a meeting is called. The essential
officers of the board are the president, the vice-president, the secretary, and the treasurer. There are five standing committees: finance;
buildings and grounds; education; student health service and physical education; and religious and social life; church and alumni relations. The
officers and committee chairmen are elected to their positions annually, although committee members are elected for three years. Before final
action in any matter, a committee confers with the president of the college, and faculty members are given the opportunity
to present various matters at the meetings.

The treasurer of the board has custody of all the funds and legal papers of the college, including collecting student
fees and paying salaries. The Executive Committee controls the majority of the official power of the board and acts as
its nominating committee. Dr. Lingle stated: “The ideal for any institution is that the trustees, administration, faculty, students, alumni, and
patrons should all work together in perfect harmony for the well-being of their institution and for the accomplishment of its
objectives.”

McDowell Richards Meets WF Tomorrow

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President of the Board of Trustees, will discuss the philosophy of education at Davidson in an
open meeting of the Westminster Fellowship tomorrow night at seven o’clock. The meeting, to be held in the Student Lounge
of the College Church, will open with brief, informal remarks by Richards who will then entertain questions and comments from
the floor. Students will be able to discuss the race issue and the matter of curriculum with the Trustee's President.
The treatment of the topic, however, is slated to cover many broad aspects of the “Davidson Education” including the Faculty
Oath, the relationship of academic freedom and Christian education, and the relationship of Davidson to the Presbyterian Church.

INFORMAL

“All of these questions are important and they certainly merit our careful consideration,” Richards noted. “So far as time permits,
I shall be glad to deal with questions which the members of the group wish to ask.” Richards continued that
he would be unable to prepare an adequate formal consideration of the topic but that he would be glad to
come and discuss some of the issues informally.

Dr. Richards is currently President of Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Georgia. He is an Alumni Trustee (Class of 1922)
and was elected President of the Board of Trustees in 1940. After graduation from Davidson, he attended Princeton (M.A.), and
Oxford (B.A., M.A.). He also holds a degree of Bachelor of Divinity from Columbia Seminary and an honorary doctorate from
Davidson.

CHRISTIAN EDUCATION

“We feel that as President of the Board of Trustees, the question of the philosophy of education here should be
one of Dr. Richard’s greatest concerns," Henry Shue, Program Chairman of the Westminster Fellowship commented. “We hope to arrive at
a better understanding of what distinguishes a Christian Education from a secular one. Is a church college simply an instrument
of the church or is it an institution with its own integrity? Can a church college have as its goal
the production of Christian men without making its curriculum a conditioning process? These are some of the questions we hope
to discuss.”

MANY ISSUES

Shue continued that “although some problems such as the Segregation Decision of the Trustees are foremost in our minds, the
group will discuss many issues and not limit their scope. We hope that by such programs the Trustees and students
can come to have a common understanding of our problems. Then we can work together to bring about positive solutions.”

The Westminster group has previously sponsored a discussion by Alumni Trustee Robert W. Gorrell of Winston-Salem. At that time he
indicated that the Trustees were seriously interested in becoming better informed about student opinion. Gorrell had served as a majority
member of the committee which drew up the decision on the racial qualifications for admission to Davidson. “The group was
heartened by the sincerity and openness with which Mr. Gorrell spoke, he seemed genuinely interested in how the students feel,”
Shue noted. “We hope that other speakers such as Dr. Richards can also help us in our efforts to apply
the Christian ethic to all phases of life.”

Deputy Secretary Will Address IRC

Mr. Latif Ahmed Sherwani, Deputy Secretary of the Pakistan Institute of International Affairs, will address an open meeting of the
International Relations Club on the subject “Pakistan in the World Today” on Wednesday night. The meeting will be held at
7:30 in the Union ballroom. Mr. Sherwani, who previously served as First Secretary-general of the United Nations Association of Pakistan,
is in this country to study and observe the organization and functioning of non-governmental organizations conducting research and adult education
in national affairs and to see the teaching of international affairs in American Colleges. Mr. Sherwani, a fluent speaker of
English, has been educated in many parts of the world. He holds an M.A. degree from Delhi University; he was
a Huf-field Foundation Fellow attached to the School of Oriental and African studies; and he studied at the University of
London in 1954-55. Mr. Sherwani has traveled extensively. He was born in India, and he has visited Lebanon, Turkey, Italy,
Switzerland, France, Germany, United Kingdom, and the Netherlands. Dan McAlister of the IRC said that the IRC was very grateful
to Dr. Abernathy, who arranged for Mr. Sherwani to speak at Davidson. He also expressed the hope that “everyone who
is interested will come to hear this very excellent speaker. Future IRC programs include studies on Africa and, possibly, Red
China.”

The Board of Trustees will convene tomorrow morning in the Baxter Davidson Room across from the auditorium on the second
floor of Chambers. The meeting will open at ten o’clock.

Pall Of Silence Enshrouds Faculty, Administration

Caution gripped the heart and prudence bound the tongue. Such was the case with the majority of members of the
faculty and administration. Their replies took varied forms: “I do not feel it is appropriate at this time...” “No statement.”
“I do not wish to make a statement at this time...” “No comment.” But the consensus was that with the
Trustees’ meeting on Wednesday on the campus, it was not an appropriate time to make a statement on this matter.
Those declining to speak at present included President Martin, Dean Johnston, Dean Bailey, Dr. Patterson, Dr. Puckett, Dr. Davidson, Dr.
Jackson, Dr. Abernethy, and Dr. Workman. Workman, who presented the integration-segregation poll to the faculty, gave his reasons for not
voicing an opinion at this time. “I do not think that the members of the faculty should make any further
statement until the Trustees are informed of the faculty decision in the faculty poll,” said the psychology professor. “I think
any action prior to this would be discourteous to the Trustees.”

Several members of the faculty and administration limited their comments to brief statements. Mrs. J. B. Moore, director of dormitories,
ventured where many of her masculine contemporaries were reluctant to tread, “Since this is a private college,” she said, “it
is up to the Trustees to decide whether to integrate or not. Considering all aspects of college life, including relations,
I do not think that integration would be a happy thing at present.” Colonel Adams agreed with Mrs. Moore that
“a private institution can exclude anyone that it wants.” Dr. McCutchan was more terse. “It is a problem that the
Trustees are responsible for,” he said, “and I for one am very glad that it is their problem and not
mine.” Dr. Maloney had this to say: “I am not in agreement with the Trustee’s statement. I feel that integration
will take place in society. I believe that the Church should take the lead in solving the problems of integration.
The Christian is responsible for expressing agape love to every racial group, but as Christians, we ought to be more
willing to give up our rights and manifest a selflessness that others might be benefited.”B. Evans, “As a ‘lame-duck’ member
of the Faculty my word means even less than it formerly did. However, I cannot help but express my hope
that the Trustees will give additional, serious thought and study to the problem. It is my judgment that for the
long-term good of the College their stand should be reversed.”

Dr. M. E. Polley remarked that “I personally believe Davidson, as a church-related college, ought to admit qualified students, regardless
of color or race. There are, however, many social problems connected with such a decision. It is my hope that
these problems might be frankly discussed by all those connected with the college.”

Dr. Goodykoontz made it clear that “This is not a racial issue. It is a human one. If Davidson College
denies admission to an applicant solely because he is a Negro, it is not excluding a race but a human
being. It is not avoiding a social or financial problem but a human relationship. It is not rejecting a name
on a printed form but a boy in his teens—a boy whose sensitivity has already been honed on the peculiar
obstacles a talented young Negro must face. And it is not Davidson College, it is not any institution, that denies
him but human beings. For, like him, we are not abstract nouns, committees, labels, faceless things; we are all sentient
beings formed of dust and spit into odd shapes and colors; but the living breath common to us all is
from God.”

Dr. Trakas had this to say: “I am in favor of having the (Continued On Page Two)”

Student Poll Reveals Views On Segregation

(Editor’s Note: We hesitate to print the results of this poll because of numerous reports of extensive ballot stuffing. However,
while we cannot guarantee the accuracy of this poll, we do feel that it gives some indication of student opinion.)

One week ago THE DAVIDSONIAN took a poll to determine student body opinion on the question of admission of Negroes
to Davidson College. During chapel last Tuesday morning the students completed the polls, which had been placed in the hymn
racks. This poll was identical to the one taken of the faculty in early December. There were 647 replies to
the poll. Of these, 297 checked the statement, “I believe that Davidson College should not in any way consider the
admission of Negroes.” On the other hand, 121 felt that Davidson should integrate “at the earliest possible date,” and that
“the Trustees should form a joint Trustee-Administration-Faculty-Student committee to discuss the full implications of this position.” An additional 178 expressed
the opinion that segregation should be maintained for the present, but that the road should be clear for integration in
the future. Of these, 94 were personally in favor of segregation, but felt “that Davidson College should be open to
reconsidering the removal of such restrictions in the future.” Eighty-four felt “that it should not be done at this time.”
All told, 303 students felt that the way for integration should be clear, either at the present or in the
future. Two hundred and nine of these requested that a Trustee-Administration-Faculty-Student committee be formed immediately to discuss the full implications
of integration at Davidson. Thirty-seven students replying to the poll did not find any of the statements on the poll
satisfactory. (See page two for several of the substitute statements).

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

TRUSTEE SPECIAL NUMBER SEVENTEEN

Participate In Discussion Groups

Approximately forty or more members of the Davidson Board of Trustees will assemble on campus tomorrow for the annual February
business meeting. The board will be in session from ten until late afternoon. Robert J. Sailstad, Assistant to the President,
reported today that the Board has a full agenda of business, “Because of the tight schedule, even lunch may be
used for certain presentations before the group.” President D. Grier Martin will make his regular report to the Board of
Trustees during the morning and afternoon sessions. Dr. Martin has been preparing this report during the past week, while recovering
from illness. They will convene in the E. H. Baxter Davidson Room on the second floor of Chambers Building. Dr.
J. McDowell Richards, president of the board, will preside over all meetings. The campus guests will have lunch together tomorrow
in the Union ballroom, beginning at 12:30. Following the meal, they will reconvene for the afternoon program of discussion and
legal business. “There are many legal and routine matters to come before the Board at the February meeting,” Mr. Sailstad
commented. “They try to take care of all business matters at that time.” The Board's second yearly meeting always comes
in May and is designed more as a “planning session.” After last spring's program which brought the faculty, student and
trustees together in discussion groups, the Board voted to continue that practice for all May meetings. Sometime during the day,
the trustees will receive a special tour of the Dana Science Building, which has been in use since the first
of the semester, and the new dormitory which is presently under construction. They will also view the progress on the
demolition of Shearer Hall and plans for the John R. Cunningham Music and Fine Arts Building. The scheduled activities of
the day will conclude with an informal coffee hour at President Martin’s home about 3:30, after the afternoon session is
adjourned. The trustees as a group have not seen the President's House since it was remodeled and refurnished last summer.
While on the campus, many of the trustees will participate in other activities. Dr. Richards is speaking to the Westminster
Fellowship tomorrow night. Also, a group of trustees has consented to meet with student groups to discuss the Board's decision
last February that it was not to the best interests of Davidson to admit Negroes as students at this time.
(See other stories on this page.)

Trustees Discuss Racial Stand

Ten Davidson students have arranged for a number of small private meetings with members of the Board of Trustees to
discuss the admissions policy of the college in regard to race. These meetings are being held tonight and at various
times tomorrow. “We sent out letters last week to every member of the Board, inviting them to meet personally with
us and discuss the issue,” explained Henry Shue, acting secretary for the group. “We have definitely scheduled meetings with seven
men, after receiving nineteen replies.” The other students who are participating in these programs are Knox Abernethy, David Edwards, Allen
Gravely, Bert Keller, Pete Kellogg, Dave Mullen, David Robinson, Joe Verreault and Larry Wells.

THE CHRISTIAN ETHIC

“Our purpose is to work toward an admissions policy that will witness more effectively to the relevance of the Christian
ethic than does last February's decision of the Board,” Shue said. “We respect the Board of Trustees, but we hope
that the last word has not been said for the present time. If Davidson is a Christian college in any
meaningful sense, we think its handling of this issue should unequivocally reflect this fact.” In addition to discussions set definitely
in trustee responses, the group is confident of talking with considerably more men, who either did not have time to
reply, could not arrange a time, or wanted to check with other Board members first.

TRUSTEE PARTICIPANTS

The scheduled meetings are with the following trustees: R. K. Gregory, Dr. B. Frank Hall, Walter L. Lingle, Jr., Rev.
M. C. MacQueen, Rev. Albert B. McClure, Rev. Roscoe L. Prince and Dr. W. T. Thompson. Others were interested but
said they did not have time for the meetings, while another group expressed agreement with the ultimate objectives but did
not feel that the suggested type of discussion would be effective. A third group declined to meet because they felt
strongly that the issue should not be reopened at all.

TRUSTEE RESPONSES

“The responses represented a wide range of opinions,” Shue commented. “The most enthusiastic reply called our meetings ‘a great idea’.
The other extreme was that no further action or investigation should be made into the matter. One man responded that
our proposed action would be positively detrimental and would ruin what is now a great institution. Another said that our
opinion represented the feeling of a very small minority and that only views of groups large enough to express themselves
through more ‘normal channels’ need to be considered.” Shue pointed out that the majority of letters showed an interest in
hearing student opinions. His group is hopeful that other students will also carry this matter to members of the Board.
“The President's Office was very helpful in supplying addresses and other information, but we want to emphasize that this program
is solely our responsibility,” Shue said.

RECONSIDER RESOLUTION

“We hope very much that the trustees will see fit to reconsider their resolution, but at the present time we
have no definite plans as a group of what to do if they do not reopen the matter. However, we
were heartened by the number of responses from trustees who said that though they had supported the resolution, they were
not confident in their own minds and hoped to study the issue further.”
