‘CAT CAGERS OPEN AGAINST DEACONS (See Page Three) VOL. XLIX Ch . DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. ye Hauidsontan The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1960 DUGGAN PROFILES “HARRIED HERB” (See Page Two) NUMBER ELEVEN Pledge Classes Defend Honor Court Chairman Attacks Drinking Rule Freshman Rush Policy By BILL PRIDGEN Davidsonian Staff Writer Fraternity pledge class leaders will propose that a student-faculty committee be given power to enforce pledge training rules and that Freshman Rush be retained in a group of recommendations to be presented to the faculty at their monthly meeting Tuesday. The proposal, formulated by representatives of the pledge classes, suggests that Freshman Rush be retained in its entirety except for the following six limitations. Stud running, paddling, car washing, menial tasks, and any practice which causes severe humiliation be abolished and instead the pledge brothers be required to visit five of his fraternity brothers a week until he has visited all of them, and of his own accord after that. Pledges may only clean houses on the occasions of dance weekends, alumni visitations, and other special visits of important persons. (The pledges could clean the house as a pledge project, but it is not mandatory.) A committee of an even student-faculty ratio be set up to oversee pledge training, and that they have the authority to make and enforce suggestions for the improvement of pledge training. A required study hall be imposed during the first five YMCA Announces Christmas Service The YMCA will present a special Christmas Vespers service at 7:30 p.m. on Sunday, Dec. 11 at the college church. The service, which will last approximately one hour, will begin with an organ concerto by Prof. R. S. Lord who will be accompanied by a small chamber orchestra directed by Prof. Frank West. Highlighting the service will be nine readings from the Old and New Testaments. The readings will be presented by students chosen at a reading rehearsal. Two or three readers will be required to carry out the program. The Male Chorus and the Chapel Choir will sing in the interludes between readings. These groups will be directed by Prof. D. B. Plott and will be accompanied by a small brass ensemble. This brass section will consist of two trumpets, two trombones, and a tympanum, all directed by Prof. West. Decorations are being planned for the windows of the church and for the area surrounding the pulpit. These will be composed of pine boughs, poinsettias, and candles. Wesley Weeks is in charge of organizing the program while Leslie is responsible for decorations. weeks of school to help the pledge get off to a good start, and that he attain and maintain a certain average to be exempt from study hall. Each pledge class propose and accomplish a project which will be beneficial to the college or community. All these suggestions be under the jurisdiction of the student-faculty committee. These recommendations grew out of meetings held on Nov. 21 and 28 when representatives of the twelve fraternity pledge classes met to discuss improvements of the present fraternity system. PRESENT SURVEY The composite results of a survey taken of all the pledges in each fraternity will also be presented to the faculty. This survey concerning pledge training reveals that “the majority of pledges feel that pledge training does not take away time that is needed for study, and those who felt that time was taken away from their studies agreed that much more time was wasted by them in bull sessions, etc.” Of the 188 pledges questioned, 82 favor “Freshman Rush as it is now with suggested limitations in our proposal.” Thirty-nine of the 188 suggested a delayed rush (for example, three weeks after school starts and lasting for two weeks). Second semester rush is supported by 62, and Sophomore Rush by four pledges out of the 188 questioned. SUGGEST VISITS The survey shows that “pledges generally feel that the only parts of pledge training which should be abolished are stud running and paddling.” It was suggested that in its place, a specific number of visits to a brother be required of the pledge during his training. Pledges suggest that “each fraternity should place an emphasis on scholastic and social adjustment during the first year of college.” In answer to the question “Do you believe that fraternities have helped you adjust to college life?”, each of the 188 pledges questioned answered affirmatively. Pledges justified their answers by mentioning the opportunity to make new friends, especially by meeting both freshmen and upperclassmen during Rush Week. Pledges endorsed required study halls and the opportunity of having a “big brother” to discuss problems that arise during the first year of college. Finally, the survey results which will be presented to the faculty Tuesday state: “The pledges unanimously felt that the fraternity gave them a sense of security and also a place to rest. It was definitely felt that fraternities add immensely to the college life of a pledge by helping him to adjust at the beginning of the year.” Plott Rehearses Charlotte Singers Professor Donald Plott, head of the Music Department, will direct the Charlotte Oratorio Singers’ presentation of Handel’s “Messiah” this Sunday at 4 p.m. at Ovens Auditorium in Charlotte. The Community Singers, sponsored by the Charlotte Music Club, have been under Plott’s direction for the past six weeks. The Charlotte Oratorio Singers, also under Plott's direction, will give a concert in Charlotte on Jan. 21. The Oratorio Singers give two concerts a year plus one appearance as guests of the Charlotte Symphony, and appear regularly on radio and television. Plott announced this week that the Male Chorus will present a concert at North Mecklenburg High School Thursday, and they will present a chapel concert Dec. 15. Plott will direct both of these concerts. YMCA Picks New Frosh Camp Staff The YMCA Cabinet has appointed Jerry Bussell as the Director of the 1961 Freshman Camp which is to be held at Camp Stewart September 5-7. Frank Mansell who served as business manager this year has been reappointed as business manager for next year. This action was taken after the Freshman Camp was approved as an annual program by the YMCA Board of Directors at its November meeting. The YMCA Cabinet also announced the other members of the Steering Committee for 1961. They are Dick Hills, Nal Watson, and Phil Burks. They will serve with Charles Ringe, the past director, and Dr. George Staples, the faculty adviser in the organization and the operation of the camp. Duke Foundation Gives $250,000 To College Trustees of the Duke Endowment announced this week that Davidson will receive $250,000 in endowment funds over and above the annual appropriations for the college. This sum was part of a $3.25 million bonus above the annual $4 million given to the four Carolina colleges and universities under the terms of the Duke indenture. These schools are Davidson, Duke University, Furman University in Greenville, South Carolina, and Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte. $3.25 MILLION EXTRA Of the $3.25 million extra, $625,000 was awarded to three schools, Davidson, Furman, and Johnson C. Smith. The remaining portion of the surplus will be distributed later among all four schools. This remaining sum will be appropriated by a special five-man committee appointed by the trustees of the 36-year-old endowment. Two of the five men, Benjamin F. Few (chairman) of New York, and Marshall I. Pickens of Charlotte are members of the Davidson Board of Visitors. MARTIN COMMENTS President D. Grier Martin said, “The Duke Endowment has been the greatest single factor in the provision of the physical and financial resources necessary to develop Davidson College.” He also indicated that the $250,000, half of which will be granted now and half in the near future, will go toward increasing Davidson's endowment fund. The endowment was set up by James B. Duke in 1924, and under his direction the annual increments from investments, then valued at $40 million, were to be given to charitable institutions. $155 MILLION GIVEN As of December 1959 the endowment held investments of more than $430 million and had paid more than $155 million to various charities. Duke University receives 32% of the Student Taylor BOOTLE, a pre-med major, is a former president of the sophomore class, vice-president of the Student Council, and judge of the Court of Control. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and has served as pledgemaster and IFC representative of that fraternity. He is also a member of Le Cercle Francais and Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, and has been chosen for “Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities.” CORNWELL, an English major, is editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks and holds a Procter and Gamble scholarship. He has served as secretary of both the Publications Board and the Red and Black Masquers, and as vice-president of Sigma Upsilon honorary literary fraternity. In addition, he is a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity, the Eumenean Society, and the Vagabonds. DENHAM, an English major, is the holder of a Procter and Gamble scholarship, treasurer of the YMCA, member of the Honor Court and a Distinguished Military Student. He also serves as treasurer of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and as business manager of the Vagabonds. MOORE, who is a history honors major, is an associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, a Distinguished Military Student, a member of the Honor Board and Scabbard and Blade. He is the IFC representative of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity and, at present, Student Council. In addition, Taylor has been chosen for “Who's Who.” Membership in ODK is based on leadership, scholarship, athletics, music, and drama, publications, and student government. Also, a student must be in the upper 35%.of his class in order to be eligible.

Lacy: It Is A Problem Since So Many Drink

Scott Lacy, Chairman of the Honor Court, met with members of THE DAVIDSONIAN editorial staff Monday night in an interview concerning the drinking problem at Davidson. The interview was a follow-up of last week's DAVIDSONIAN meeting with Dean J. Bailey and Dr. C. J. Pietenpol of the Faculty Committee on Fraternities.

The following questions were posed by various members of the staff:

Q. Do you think the present drinking rule is realistic in the light of present practice?
Lacy: No, I do not.

Q. Whose fault do you think this is?
Lacy: I think the fault lies in the attitude of the people who drink.

Q. Do you think the rule as it now stands is a good one?
Lacy: No, I don't. I think it will have to be loosened up, but just how much is the big problem. Right now it is a laugh. Only Cop Linker and the members of the Honor Court and the Student Council enforce it.

Q. Do you think most of these people agree on the principle of the rule, or enforce it because it is a rule?
Lacy: I think most people enforce it because it is a rule, not because they believe in the principle of the thing.

Q. How do you and other people in student government really determine whether a person is under the influence or not?

Debate Team's Recent Win Spurs On Student Interest
By KEITH JOHNSON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Dr. J. T. Drake, chairman of the debate-dramatics committee, gives several reasons for the recent growth of debating here. Dr. Drake feels that a strong inducement for debating is its educational value. Under the supervision of Mrs. H. Y. T. Lilly, Mr. P. F. and Dr. Drake, the debater is forced to do research, write speeches, and develop public-speaking talents. In addition, he must learn to listen to others and, at the same time, organize an intelligent rebuttal.

GOOD SHOWING

These selling points for debating attracted enough students to start a team. “But there’s no victory like victory,” said Dr. Drake, indicating that the wildcat debating team's good showing at Wake Forest brought victory over the once-indifferent attitude toward debating at Davidson. At Wake Forest, our novice team, consisting of Roger Pan coast, Tom Poston, John Rankin, and Skip Jones, won six of twelve rounds against novice teams from Duke, William and Mary, Wake Forest, Richmond, Randolph-Macon, Bridgewater, and the University of South Carolina.

STRONG BACKBONE

After this encouraging performance, more boys showed interest, and a second team, including Bob Llewellyn, Harold Fisher, Bill Brown, and Greg Govan, was formed. Five of the eight debaters are freshmen who will provide a strong backbone in teams for the next three years. To give the newly-expanded group experience, a meet will be held at Appalachian State Teachers College this coming weekend. The two Davidson teams, divided into two negative and two affirmative teams, will be engaged in a total of twenty rounds with perhaps as many as twenty different schools.

TWO ALTERNATES

Along with the regular teams, Davidson also plans to take two alternates, Lenox Baker and Kookie Kapoor, who will compete in extemporaneous after-dinner speaking and fill vacancies in the debating teams, if necessary. Further meets are being planned for winter and spring.

Fraternities Treat Kids To Fun, Gifts

The annual Christmas party for the children at the Barium Springs Orphanage is tentatively set for Thursday afternoon, December 15. The children will arrive here by bus at about 5:15 p.m. Upon arrival, they will be divided into twelve different groups, each one consisting of approximately eight children. Each of the twelve fraternities will be feeding and entertaining one of the groups until 8:00 p.m., when the children will leave from the Union for the Orphanage. Sometime between supper and 8:00 p.m., Santa Claus will visit each of the fraternity houses. During his visit, he will give each one of the children a Christmas present.

The IFC has announced that a maximum of $2.50 will be spent on each child. The name, age, and particular group of each child will be sent at a later date, in order to get the child an appropriate present.

Lacy: Anyone knows that you can catch someone under the influence of alcohol by standing in one of the parking lots, particularly on a dance weekend, and catch someone struggling in. For me to turn someone in, he must be incoherent and/or sick. That's the way I look at it and most people in student government agree. Some of those in the college administration think this attitude is wrong and that we should resign. I think it's a rule that needs changing. I, myself, can't be a police dog about it.

Q. Last week the Wake Forest Student Legislature agreed to do away with student enforcement of the drinking rule, leaving it up to faculty control. Would you be in favor of something like this at Davidson?
Lacy: Yes, I would be in favor of such a set-up. As it now stands, the faculty is in favor of the drinking rule and the students are not, as a whole. The students sort of look at the Student Council and the Honor Court as a police force. If the faculty really wanted it enforced, they would have to crack down.

Lacy went on to say that most of the trouble has been on dance weekends and that at one time there had been talk among some of the trustees to permit drinking at the fraternity houses on such big weekends. Lacy said he would not be in favor of such a proposal, but emphasized that it might possibly open the door to more alcohol on the campus.

As the questioning continued, Lacy was asked whether the faculty, in his opinion, had been realistic about the drinking rule.
Lacy: I can't see that they have done anything about it. It always seems to be in the student's hands.

Q. As a rule, what type of sentence does the Honor Court give out for various drinking rule offenses?
Lacy: If a boy is caught with alcohol on campus, he is automatically suspended. If a boy is caught under the influence on campus, he is usually campused for a period of time.

Q. Have you received any pressure from the faculty about not suspending a boy for being under the influence?
Lacy: No.

Q. When you say there should be a change in the drinking rule, do you mean the whole rule or just the "under the influence" clause?
Lacy: I was referring to the "under the influence" clause. I would not like to see alcohol on the campus at all, but as the "under the influence" rule now stands, it is silly and not enforced.

Q. Do you think the Davidson students would vote for an amendment to liberalize the rule, but put it under faculty control?

(Continued On Page Four)

Rewrites Student Constitution

Monday night, a Student Council committee began its report on a new constitution for the student body. The Council began discussion of the proposed constitution and is expected to continue the discussion for the next few weeks. A four-man committee, headed by Hutton Barron, completely rewrote the Student Body Constitution and introduced several new ideas in their rewritten version.

The constitution, as reported out of the committee, provides for the creation of a judiciary board, made up of the four class officers of the class of the person on trial, which would try all cases involving the breaking of a student body regulation. Under this system, the Honor Court would try only honor violations.

The proposed constitution will also provide for a freshman, elected by the Freshman Council, to sit in on Council meetings first semester, and to be a voting sixteenth member of the Council second semester. Another proposal is for an attendance requirement for Council members, which would force a member to resign his office if he had missed a given number of meetings.

The proposed constitution also greatly changes the concept of by-laws. It proposes that by-laws be changed by the Student Council, without the presently required two-thirds vote of the entire Student Body. It also places such matters as the Court of Control in the by-laws. Only one Student Body Regulation is provided for in the proposal, that being the "gentlemanly conduct" rule, which the committee felt could then be applied to such matters as drinking, gambling, and hazing.

Student Body President Henry Shue said of this particular provision, "We really are going to have to think over the whole matter of Student Body Regulations, and have to get regula-

(Continued On Page Four)