Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE THREE
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1960
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Put Up Or Shut Up

The IFC’s revision of the Sigma Nu pledge program proposal is a definite step in the right direction. We are a trifle surprised that more sweeping changes weren't injected into the stringent measure presented last week as a replacement for Sophomore Rush. At the same time, we can’t help feeling a little skeptical. Fraternities have a penchant for setting up rules and regulations and then seeing how many loopholes in them they can find to squirm through. The spirit of Greek Week regulations, for instance, has never been strictly observed, nor has the IFC ever punished the violators. We feel that the goals of Sophomore Rush could be reached through conscientious adherence to this revised program submitted by the IFC. The statement itself is vague in places and needs rewording—but the essence of it would constitute a solid pledge program that would not make a fraternity puppet of the freshman. We urge the fraternities to accept it. But it’s time to put up or shut up.

In the campaign to revoke the Sophomore Rush ruling, odds are against the fraternities. A faculty that voted rather decisively last May to overhaul the Davidson fraternity system isn’t going to backtrack just because the fraternities make some pie-in-the-sky promises to reform. It’s got to be shown. To make any impression at all, the fraternity system must ratify the IFC revision—or something very close to it—unanimously. Moreover, we must implement it immediately, with this year’s pledge program and this year’s pledges. We must abide by the spirit of the proposal and forget about the loopholes—for there are bound to be loopholes in any statement. To present any sort of proposal to the faculty now would be foolish. But in March, after having proved that we can solve our own problems, the outlook may be brighter.

An Encouraging Response

Davidson’s department chairmen revealed mixed opinions concerning the adoption of comprehensives at Davidson. It is encouraging that most of the department heads favor some type of comprehensive examinations and have emphasized the importance of well-conducted programs and outside examiners. Despite the objections of some faculty members, we feel that comprehensives can be successfully conducted in the language, economics, English, psychology, philosophy, history, biology, and physics departments. A review of the material covered in any of the above major subjects will be most beneficial by helping a student to consolidate his understanding of his major.

If the program is instituted at Davidson we hope that the professors who have voiced favor for this type of program will encourage outside examiners to be strict in their questioning of a student and in the grading of his performance. If we are to achieve academic excellence in every department at Davidson, professors must demand a quality of student work which will be creditable even under the most stringent outside inspection. The success of comprehensives will depend upon how well the program is conducted. A properly conducted program must carefully test a student’s mastery of his major.
—R. L. M.

To The Vagabonds: Bravo

Davidson’s newly organized drama enthusiasts, The Vagabonds, richly deserve the praise they've been getting. The first Vagabond production, The Madwoman of Chaillot, played to a delighted first-night audience; campus enthusiasm made another performance necessary, and now the Vagabonds are debating whether to do it again. Meanwhile, rehearsals are in progress for MacLeish’s J.B. and for Shaw’s St. Joan, which will star Mrs. D. Grier Martin. Such vigor is rare at Davidson. We congratulate the Vagabonds—and we urge students to get their tickets early for coming performances.
—E. S. D.

100% Quorum

The Student Council has tabled an amendment to the constitution which would establish a quorum of nine men in order for the Honor Court to begin trial proceedings. Operating under a nine-man quorum, the Honor Court could dismiss a defendant from school with only four votes against him. It works this way: Of the nine men who constitute a quorum, three cannot vote. One must serve as judge, one must serve as counsel for the defense, and one man must prosecute. This leaves six members who are eligible to vote on a case, and since a two-thirds majority is required for a decision, four men out of the nine present could call for a conviction. In other words, it would only take a third of the 12-man court to render a decision if only the nine members constituting a quorum were present.

We propose an alternative amendment:
1. Require all members of the Honor Court to be present at any trial, but allow a three-man leeway. This would permit the court to convene without three members who might be in the infirmary or away from the campus.
2. Nine men must be present for any trial proceedings to take place.
3. The judge of the Court should decide whether or not a member has a legitimate excuse to miss the trial. We feel that only sickness or absence from the campus at the time the Court is called should be considered legitimate excuses.

Under this amendment, every member of the Court who is physically able to attend would have to be present in order for a trial to be conducted. We feel that a student who accepts the responsibility of membership on the Honor Court obligates himself to take part in all of its proceedings.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
B. Millner
BUSINESS MANAGER
Charlie Rowe
Assistant Editor
Tom Colvin
Assignments Editor
Russ Showalter
Associate Editors
Ervin Duggan
Copy Editor
Jack Hand
Bob Moore
Photographer
Gene Wells
Managing Editors
David Jordan
Advertising Manager
Olin Nisbet
Don Saunders
Circulation Manager
Butler Bennett
Sports Editor
Bill Godwin
Feature Editor
Leonard Richardson
Entered as Second Class Matter
Assistant Bus. Manager
Gene Adcock
at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Readers Rap Comprehensives, Anti-Semitism, Faculty

Dr. Thompson

Dear Editor:
In my opinion, the editorials in THE DAVIDSONIAN in favor of comprehensive examinations are much too optimistic. In the first place, there are no panaceas for the academic problems facing American colleges today; there are no “giant steps” towards academic excellence. In the second place, any device which can so easily become little more than a change in form will not accomplish much. Such merits as comprehensives may have, or may be imagined to have, have been listed by their proponents. I shall not repeat them. The dangers are fully as important. The broader the field to be examined, the thinner the examination may become. Comprehensives may be suitable for honors students, but in the case of the average and sub-average student they often cease to be an examination of the candidate and become a test of the ability of the instructor to ask questions which will preserve the appearance of respectability without flunking the student.

Again, proponents of comprehensives glibly pass over the problem of preparing course questions. In practice, comprehensives often have a strong tendency to become little more than a twelve-hour collection of the same sort of course questions that we now ask in separate three-hour examinations. I am willing to try comprehensives if for no better reason than that the novelty may have some small beneficial effect for a while, but I do not look for any very significant improvement in our academic program or in student performance as a result. Only by changes in content can we make real progress towards academic excellence. But no significant changes in content will come about until we revise our standards of values. When parents, when students, and when the faculty all really put academic excellence as their foremost goal, then, I think, we shall find that we can make very considerable progress without much concern for the forms of procedure.
B. D. Thompson

Bert Kamm

Dear Editor:
I consider this newspaper very useful and also necessary around the campus, and in the same way I know for sure that under your accurate leadership it is supposed to tell the truth whenever and wherever it goes. Because of that I want to let everybody know by your interlude my complete disagreement with the general behavior of the crowd that attended both performances of “The Diary of Anne Frank” last Friday and Saturday. Being Jewish myself, I go to your Presbyterian Church and try to adapt myself to all your customs, within and out of campus life, but I can’t just stay indifferent and silent when I hear you blame my religion, for that is what happened these days. Maybe I'd better not talk and try to forget, but what we saw in that movie awakens my feelings.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

and brings up the true facts that happened during World War I, to the persons who are not quite enough related to those antecedents. I hope that these kinds of pictures are shown, in order to establish a general feeling against those persecutions toward weakened people of any race, and I don’t consider it will pay too much laughing and trying to get out of them only the amusing parts, things which should be sought in other kinds of movies and not in those which are related with mankind’s suffering and pain.
Bert Kamm
Tom Ross

Dear Editor:
And so it happened during the reign of Marcus Martinus, in the Empire ruled by Alumnus Rex, that the great Council sent out a decree to all the land: “Since marriage is not good for some, no man shall become betrothed until a year after he attains citizenship.” And a great murmur went up from the people. What reasoning did the Council use to pass such a ridiculous law? Only 15 percent of the early marriages were unsuccessful. Had not the Council already taken away every power and privilege of the people? Didn't they enforce enough outdated, outmoded regulations? Weren't the forced propaganda meetings four times each week enough? The dissenting people assembled before Marcus and the Council pleading, “O Marcus, why do you oppress us with your whimsical meandering? You own our bodies, must you also own the souls?” Marcus hesitated, and then replied, “Nice people, I am not a member of the Council, I am only their leader. Therefore I cannot answer your problems, but I’m sure that the Council might have thought this out—well, maybe they had some reason, I mean, I don’t know,—I, duh.” Then the people petitioned the hierarchy, and the Council replied in vague, inconsistent utterances, as was their fashion, “The Council has decided, after great deliberation, that this decree is in the best interest of the State. 2 plus 2 equals 5, and marriage, with its love and spirit of cooperation, will interfere with a man’s first obligations, the State.” So the people went away in great anxiety. Several of the weaker cowards came forward saying, “Let us go fall before the Council and grovel in the dust and lick their sandals, and cry for mercy. Maybe we can appease their vanity and they will reverse their decision.” But the aroused people stoned these clucking birds and revolted against the Council, killing each member in his bed. And thus it came to pass that a new government was established and the people prospered in happiness under the newness of democracy.
Tom Ross

DR. SAMUEL R. SPENCER, JR.
The Editor's Guest

Editor’s Note: Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., class of 1940, is president of Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Virginia. He served as dean of students and history professor at Davidson from 1954-57.

Is there such a thing as a right to go to college? Given the assumptions of American society, I believe there is. But the right belongs only to those young men and women who are able and willing to participate constructively in an experience which is essentially intellectual and spiritual. Quite naturally, in keeping with our development as a practical people, we have looked at college-going with a utilitarian eye. Too often we have measured the value of a college diploma by its ability to double as a ticket to a lucrative job or an invitation to the country club. Such an outlook has in turn led us to emphasize the non-academic aspects of college life. We have extolled the virtues of those college activities, outside the classroom, which promote proper adjustment, getting along with people, “contacts,” the competitive spirit, and leadership training. The current scientific race with its premium on brainpower has suddenly called this emphasis into question. Even stronger pressure for re-appraisal is coming from the rapid increase in college-age population which now allows most colleges to do what they wanted to do all the time but could not afford to do—eliminate at the door students who are either unable or unwilling to take seriously the demands of academic work. We are now realizing that while the whole complex of student government, fraternities, clubs, athletics, and campus publications has definite value, the college experience must be first and foremost an intellectual one. The money we spend on higher education is wasted if colleges do not confront their students seriously in the realm of mind and spirit. We are also realizing two other things: that even ideally college is not necessarily for every high school graduate, and that a conventional four-year college experience is not the only acceptable kind of education beyond high school. Three-year college programs, the terminal junior college, three-two arrangements, the technical institute—all are proving that old patterns should not be considered sacrosanct. The re-appraisal which our population growth is forcing upon us will have very salutary effects upon American education. It will improve the quality of our colleges, many of which have had to struggle for academic respectability. It will continue to stimulate experimentation in methods and curriculum. It will eliminate many lowest-common-denominator practices in favor of education according to individual abilities and needs. Does the fact that many students may not be able to get into college, as we know college today, mean that American education is becoming undemocratic? I do not think so. As long as every student of ability and motivation has the opportunity and even the right to go to college (the vast increase in financial aids will ensure this), it cannot be said that our system is undemocratic. On the contrary, we will come closer to producing the aristocracy of talent and virtue, as opposed to an aristocracy of wealth and privilege, which Thomas Jefferson saw as the ideal product of democracy at work.