FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1960

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SIDE LINES ON SPORTS
By B. MILLNER

The rangy Beta took a tap-off at the foul circle, faked, wheeled, and hooked cleanly into the basket — the Sigma Chi basket. The White Cross boys stared in comic incredulity — and a sports editor realized that he had pulled off probably the most spectacular play of the intramural season. One consolation — they beat us by four points, not two.

* * *

TRUSTEES, BESET BY crusading integrationists and special publications, must have thought the whole darn place had gone to the — Wednesday afternoon. A persistent thumping reverberated from first-floor Chambers, the heart of Davidson College. The heart was beating a little fast, for Coach Heath Whittle had half a dozen of his winter track boys running sprints up and down the main hall. With four or five inches of snow on the track, outdoor workouts had slushed to a halt. Basketball players teemed in the gym, so Whittle moved over to Chambers. Actually, the hardwood floor in the downstairs hall is the nearest thing Davidson has to an indoor board track.

* * *

JIM NUCKOLLS was released from Mercy Hospital yesterday after undergoing an operation that may determine whether or not he will ever play basketball again. All indications are that the operation was a success. It seems that Big Jim didn’t have any ligaments in one of his ankles, and they had to fix him up with a few.

* * *

LITTLE SONNY FERGUSON, the bigger half of a pair of brothers who played basketball here up until last year, when they finally gave brother Red a diploma, is playing ball for the Columbia Theological Seminary club. Not that that’s so unusual, but the other night, Sonny, who was primarily a floor man and defensive artist, scored 56 points against another squad of future preachers.

* * *

THE SOUTHERN CONFERENCE wrestling tournament to be held here March 3-5 is a first for Davidson. Some of the finest wrestlers in the nation will be here — the dollar admission charge for the entire three-day tournament is peanuts when you consider the caliber of competition on hand. The local contingent, having a somewhat mediocre season, might be represented in the winner’s circle by Milton Gee, who just missed last year, or big Jim Alexander, who shows tremendous promise as a sophomore.

* * *

AS ALWAYS, the quality of refereeing for the intramural basketball games is lousy. The IMAC is virtually powerless to do anything significant about the problem. The problem could become serious. Sporadic fist slinging and unnecessary pile-ups are becoming commonplace. At least one or two teams are winning with rough-house tactics that make a farce out of the rule book. It is not inconceivable that a full-scale brawl between rabid fraternity rooters could develop from the impromptu skirmishes that get out of hand on the court. Until a better solution to the problem is worked out, it is up to the fraternities to provide the most competent referees available. Too often the chore is forced on the least capable.

BY JIM PRESSLY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Tomorrow the Wildcat basketball team travels to Charleston to try to avenge an earlier defeat at the hands of the Citadel, 73-55. Asked about the game, Coach Scott commented, “We've always played pretty good ball against Citadel, and if we play well Saturday, we should be able to beat them.” He noted that Art Musselman is Citadel's leading scorer, but that all five starters are potential threats. The season ends for the 'Cats on February 22, with Pembroke at Davidson.

TOURNEY HOPES GONE

A win over Citadel would give Davidson a 1-9 mark for the season. Even if Richmond should lose its remaining two games, they would still edge out the ’Cats for eighth place in the Southern Conference. Though the Wildcats did not make the tournament, Scott praised his boys for their hustle throughout the season.

INDIANS EDGE 'CATS

Tuesday night, William & Mary handed Davidson a 73-65 loss. The superior height of the opposition was a deciding factor, as the 'Cats were out-rebounded, 51-27. Davidson played sporadic ball and hit a cold streak early in the game. With the score 6-5, Coach Scott's boys could not manage a bucket, while William & Mary garnered 15 points to pull out to a 21-5 lead. The half ended with the 'Cats down 12 points, 38-26. In the second half, William & Mary increased their lead to 60-40. With nine minutes left, the Wildcats began to move. They cut the margin to four points, 68-64, with 56 seconds remaining. That was as close as it got as free throws padded William & Mary's lead.

STATISTICS TELL TALE

The 'Cats hit 25 for 69 from the floor for 36.2%. The opposition hit a remarkable 50% with 27 buckets in 54 attempts. Bussell and Markee led the scoring for the 'Cats with 16 and 14, respectively. Shinn, hampered by a bad knee, was held to five points. Commenting on the team’s performance, Coach Scott said, “Our main trouble was losing the ball several times consecutively and allowing the opposition to build up a lead too great to overcome.” The preliminary contest saw the Wildkittens lose to Wingate. Hampered by the loss of Bill Jarman early in the game, the Frosh saw a 12-3 lead crumble.

PILE UP — Joe Markee (24) and D. G. Martin pile on to big Jeff Cohen during the W. & M. game last Tuesday. A jump ball was called. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells)

FIRST OF SEASON
Wildcats Compete In VMI Grapplers Here
BY D. G. MARTIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

V. M. I. took a one-sided, 24-5, win over Davidson's wrestling team here on Thursday afternoon. V. P. I., the best team in the conference, was to meet Davidson here tonight. Heavy snow did not permit them to travel today and the match has been postponed and may be held tomorrow or Tuesday.

On Wednesday night, the biggest game of the young season was held with the Phi Delts and SAE’s clashing. Trailing by three at the half, the smooth SAE’s glided to victory, 35-32. Doug Orr and Lee Cory led the victors with 12 and 11, respectively. Hight Redmond gunned in 22 as the KA’s whipped the Kappa Sigs, 67-55. Newcomer Lee Coward led the Kappa Sigs with 13. Dave Warden's 19 paced the Independents, who had an exciting win over Tommy Brown, 7-6. Wise held the advantage in the final moments of the match. Brown almost reversed the position several times. A reversal would have drawn. Davidson was forced to give up.Wingate led 29-28 at half. Heywood Evans was high for Davidson with 18 points.

SC Indoor Track Meet
BY MELVIN McKENZIE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Fourteen Davidson athletes will compete with other Southern Conference schools in an indoor track meet tomorrow at Lexington, Va. VMI is highly favored, and strong Citadel and Furman will be strong contenders for second and third places. But the Wildcats are expected to put on a fair showing," Whittle said. Pat Currie, running the 70-yard low and the 70-yard high hurdles, might still be hampered by his knee, operated on last match. The Wildcats’ luck changed in the 147-pound division as Milton Gee took a 4-3 win over VMI’s Al Brownwell. Gee's come-from-behind win came on the strength of a final period takedown. With one-sided victories in the 157- and 167-pound class, VMI increased its lead to 19-3. Butch LeDoyen was pinned in the first period by VMI's Daniels. Davidson's Cliff Thompson lost an 11-4 match to Richard Bartell. In the 177-pound class, Davidson's Jim Alexander fought to a 3-2 lead by taking down Jerry Conners in the final period. But the official penalized Alexander a point for stalling. The match resulted in a 3-3 draw. The Keydet’s Dennis Merklinger wound up the afternoon with an impressive 5-1 victory over Alex Porter. The Davidson Freshman team gave their best performance of the season, but bowed to the VMI freshmen, 18-16.

Riflers Stage Fight For Carolina Title

Davidson’s ROTC Rifle team, defending champion of the Western Carolina Conference, will lay its title on the line next Friday in a four-way meet at Wofford College. The Wildcats will go into the meet against P.C., Wofford, and Furman with a 5-1 conference record. Furman is close behind with a 4-2 showing for the season. After the meet, the annual presentation of trophies will be held. Davidson’s Don Harper and Joe Wearn won trophies last year in the match division and standing division, respectively. Team coach Sgt. McCurrie noted this week that Wearn currently leads his division by a fraction of a point. Harper trails the match leader by 2/10 pt. The Wildcats met a “pretty strong” North Carolina State team here today in a non-conference match.

Hot Catfish Host Citadel Is Last
BY BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

If things came off this afternoon as planned (by Coach Dwight Shoe), his Catfish now own an 8-1 record on the season with a single meet remaining — at the Citadel next Saturday. Before the Emory splash here today, Shoe sized up the relative strengths of the two teams, noting that the Wildcats had better average times than Emory in every event except the backstroke and medley relay. He said the Georgia team also had a slight edge over the Cats in diving. This could be, he said, since Davidson diver Jack Rose has been suffering the last two weeks from back strain. “We seem to be pretty well in line now to break some records,” Shoe continued. “For a month we've been swimming regularly, and the boys are down on their times. Commenting on the Citadel meet, Shoe exclaimed, “That will be the meet of the Southern Conference! We're just as good as they are, but they have more depth. They have a little bit of everything,” he added. If the Wildcats can pull a win over the Bulldogs, who rank with VMI as tops in the Southern Conference, they'll be tied with VMI for the conference championship. Davidson’s VMI meet is the lone blotch on their record. Said Shoe, “I think we can beat them this time around.”

In Monday’s handball action, the Independents beat the Betas, the SAE’s downed the Pikas, Phi Delts battered the Kappa Sigs, the ATO’s clipped the Phi Gams, the Sig Eps whipped the Pi Kapps, and the Sigma Chis defeated the Sigma Nus. On Wednesday, the Independents got their sixth straight win by defeating the Phi Delts, the KA’s beat the Pikas, the SAE’s nipped the Phi Gams, the Eps bested the Kappa Sigs, and the ATO’s whipped the Sigma Nus. Freshman Rick Lowery assisted with 14. Bill Kirkland of the Nus led all scorers with 24. In the final game of the week, the Sigma Chis downed the Betas, 61-57. Charlie Bridgers with 19 and Don Killian with 11 paced the Chi offense. The Betas, playing without the services of All Fraternity Freddy Lane, were paced by freshmen Carl Hunt, 18, and Bill Wallace, 12.

Dr. Johnston Named to NCAA Council

Dr. Frontis W. Johnston was elected to the executive council of the National Collegiate Athletic Association at a recent New York meeting of that group. The council, which is the ruling body of the NCAA, is composed of 15 men from all parts of the country. Eight are chosen from the NCAA districts and six are elected as members at large. Johnston is of the latter category. “It’s a little new to me,” said Dr. Johnston, “I don't know just what my duties are right now.” He went on to say that the council is the group which considers rules infractions and levies penalties and suspensions. The council slapped Oklahoma with a controversial suspension for an illegal football fund. Dr. Johnston is serving as president of the Southern Conference.

AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
MEET YOUR FRIENDS WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI IN CHARLOTTE
WILKINSON BLVD.

BELIEVE IT OR NOT! SPRING IS JUST AROUND THE CORNER

Each day we are receiving new merchandise for Spring. Drop by and look to see what's in “store” for you.
Rusk Wilson Ltd.

Lucky girl! Next time one of her dates brings up the Schleswig-Holstein question, she'll really be ready for him. Ready for that test tomorrow, too... if that bottle of Coke keeps her as alert tonight as it does other people.
BE REALLY REFRESHED
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, N.C.