THE “EXTRA” DANCE WEEKEND: A Belk resident disgustedly vacates to make room for the girls... Coach Bill Dole talks strategy
with a tense gathering of his come-back Wildcats, who may not have a losing season after all. And at Hattie’s,
the lull before the storm.

TODAY’S SOCCER SCORE: ‘CATS 4, VMI 1

“THIS COULD BE THE SOUTHERN CENTURY”

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
VOL. XLIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1960 NUMBER TEN

Council Removes Court From Chapel Activities

The Student Council voted Monday night to remove the Court of Control from all chapel activities next year. Instead of
punishing freshmen by calling them up before the student body, the Court will discipline according to the seriousness of the
offense with the maximum penalty not to exceed more than two weeks restriction to the campus. Furthermore, the Council voted
to extend the time limit of the Freshman Regulations until the Thanksgiving Holidays next year.

THE “NEW COURT”

In the past two weeks, the Student Council has recommended the following changes be made in the Court of Control:
—The posts of Freshman Adviser and Judge of the Court of Control are to be combined. The new Judge-Adviser will
be elected by the rising senior class.

By JIM WILLIAMS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Sophomore Field Day is to be held within six weeks of the first freshman grading period. If the sophomores defeat
the freshmen, the regulations will be withdrawn. The Council also voted to strike from the Constitution the clause that no
member of the Student Council or of the Honor Court can be on the Court of Control. The student body
will vote on this later this year. The student body will also have to vote on a motion to let
next year’s Student Council select the Judges of the Court.

Bailey, Pietenpol State Views On Drinking Rule

Pietenpol: On-Campus Parties Are Better Idea

By KNOX AERNETHY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dean J. C. Bailey and Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, chairman of the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, met with the editors
of THE DAVIDSONIAN on Wednesday afternoon to discuss the problems of after-dance parties and drinking at Davidson.

In opening the discussion Dr. Pietenpol stated that there had been a committee of trustees studying this problem for the
last three or four years, and that they have had nothing definite to report.

Dr. Pietenpol pointed out that it is extremely difficult to get agreement on where the college stands on this issue,
because feelings vary from considering drinking immoral or a sin to believing that the problem should be completely ignored by
the college. Finally, Dr. Pietenpol underlined the danger of the present system by saying that it was almost a matter
of time until some student, driving back to the campus under the influence of alcohol, would have a serious accident.

Dean Bailey: I personally would not enforce or support a rule which I did not believe in. Now, these rules
are “theirs” and can only be changed by the Student Body, not by the Student Council or the faculty, and
if this is the situation then the rule ought to be changed. The real question is whether the Student Body
will support the enforcement of its rules either by the Honor Court. Now, it has been my observation that the
Honor Court is no stronger than the group which elects it. I gather from what students tell me that support
is not strong enough for them to feel comfortable about it.

Dr. Pietenpol: In my opinion, if a student is driving after he has been drinking, then he is responsible. I
personally would feel an obligation to do what I could to prevent him from driving.

Dean Bailey: I would oppose such a change because I do not see how it can be enforced. An intoxicated
person returning to the campus will interrupt normal proceedings in the dormitory, and I would consider such a change as
moving our standard back. We have to draw the line somewhere.

Following these opening comments, several questions were discussed by both Dr. Pietenpol and Dean Bailey:

Question: Has there been a proposal to restrict all Council members from taking an oath to turn in any person
they see under the influence of alcohol, when the students taking the oath do not believe in enforcing such a
rule and go to extremes to keep from seeing intoxicated students?

Dr. Pietenpol: I would oppose such a change because I do not see how it can be enforced. An intoxicated
person returning to the campus will interrupt normal proceedings in the dormitory, and I would consider such a change as
moving our standard back. We have to draw the line somewhere.

Dean Bailey: I personally would not enforce or support a rule which I did not believe in. Now, these rules
are “theirs” and can only be changed by the Student Body, not by the Student Council or the faculty, and
if this is the situation then the rule ought to be changed. The real question is whether the Student Body
will support the enforcement of its rules either by the Honor Court. Now, it has been my observation that the
Honor Court is no stronger than the group which elects it. I gather from what students tell me that support
is not strong enough for them to feel comfortable about it.

Pledge Class Leaders Air Soph Rush Views

In a meeting last Thursday at the Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity house, a group of fraternity presidents gathered to discuss
aspects of Sophomore Rush. In other Sophomore Rush developments, pledge class presidents prepared a questionnaire on pledge activities which was
distributed to all fraternity pledges.

At Thursday’s meeting, Tom Covington prepared plans for an assembly program to be presented next Monday. The presidents plan to
outline improvements they have seen in their four years at Davidson, and to offer suggestions on improving the pledge program.
They will speak briefly. Presidents of this year’s pledge classes have also been holding meetings on pledge training problems. A
questionnaire was sent to all fraternity pledges last week asking pledges to estimate the effectiveness of their pledge programs.

McGeachy Returns To Limited Duties

After spending nearly two months in a Charlotte hospital,amount of time they spend on fraternity activities, and to evaluate the
activities given. Dr. J. A. McGeachy, professor of ancient and middle ages history, has returned to Davidson. He plans to
resume most of his classroom duties immediately. McGeachy entered Presbyterian Hospital in late September with a herniated disk. During October
he underwent an operation and has been recuperating since.

Rick Smyre, acting chairman of the group and president of Kappa Alpha’s pledge class, hopes that the results of this
poll can be tabulated during the coming week. The pledge class presidents are: Woody Danenhower, ATO; John Spratt, Beta; Rick
Smyre, KA; Mac Morris, Kappa Sigma; Warren, Phi Delt; David Lopp, Phi Gam; Bob Bost, PiKA; Hubert Bell, Pi Kapp;
Tommy Stafford, SAE; Dick Hastings, Sigma Nu; Doug Heidt, Sig Ep. Sigma Chi has not yet elected officers.

Professor F. W. Johnston has been teaching History 13 and Professor B. D. Thompson has been teaching History 11 and
23 in place of McGeachy this semester. McGeachy’s condition may not allow him to resume all his classes.

On Tuesday, November 29, at 7:30 p.m. the second of the Otts Lectures will be presented by Dr. Albert C.
Outler. He will speak on “Christology In A New Key.” Dr. Outler was educated at Wofford, Emory, and received his
Ph.D. at Yale. After ministering to Methodist churches in his native Georgia for eight years, he embarked on a distinguished
career of teaching at Duke, Yale, and Southern Methodist University, where he is presently Professor of Theology. He has delivered
lectures on endowed foundations at Oberlin, Virginia, Texas Christian, and Vanderbilt.

Kamm Recovers From Auto Wreck

Bert Kamm, 19-year-old foreign student from Argentina, who was injured seriously in an automobile accident Oct. 29, will be released
from Charlotte Memorial Hospital in about 12 days. Kamm, riding in a car driven by junior Harold Fisher, suffered multiple
cuts and bruises and a break in his right leg above the knee when a drunken driver swerved into the
left lane on Highway 21 near Charlotte and smashed Fisher's car head-on. Kamm is recovering with a pin in his
leg. He welcomes visitors to his room—No. 406.

The literary festival also featured novelist Elizabeth Janeway. The Hollins College English department and Grapheon, literary honor society, co-sponsored the
symposium to which students from 20 nearby colleges were invited. Bill Pruitt received a similar honor on November 12. He
was one of seven student writers from Virginia and North Carolina colleges and universities whose poems were selected for reading
at a Hollins College literary festival. Randall Jarrell, poet and literary critic, and poet James Dickey heard the poems and
then offered criticism to the student writers.

Dr. Outler has written on a wide range of subjects including Psychotherapy and the Christian Message, The Christian Tradition and
the Unity We Seek, and St. Augustine. He is currently writing a biography of John Wesley. Dr. Outler was a
delegate to the Third World Council on Faith and Order in Sweden and is now serving on the committee of
the same name for the World Council of Churches. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, he is also serving on
the National Council on Religion in Higher Education.

Following Dr. Outler in the Otts Lectures will be Dr. I. McCord, Dean and Professor of Theology in Austin Presbyterian
Theological Seminary. Dr. McCord will speak, March 7, on “The Recovery of the Personal.” To complete the 1960-61 lecture series,
Dr. Joseph Sittler, a member of the University of Chicago faculty, will speak on “Violence and Meaning.” Dr. Sittler will
lecture here April 17. Harvard's Paul L. Lehmann, who appeared here on November 1, delivered the first in the Otts
series. His talk on “What is a Christian Act?” led in Contemporary Theology, the topic of this year's series.

Dr. Pietenpol: There has been no specific proposal of that type voted on by the faculty; however, this possibility has
been discussed. I, personally, feel that it would be better to have the parties on campus rather than off-campus.

Q: How do you propose to deal with the oath which all Honor Court and Student Government members take?

Dean Bailey: I would question an Honor Court member taking an oath to turn in persons on campus who are
under the influence of alcohol without intending to do so.

Q: If the faculty enforced this rule rather than the Student Government, do you feel that it would inflict greater
punishments?

Dean Bailey: I think that if a man were tried before the Executive Committee for drinking, he would probably be
suspended from college. However, I think that if the faculty took enforcement of this rule, passed a harsher sentence over
a man who had been tried and sentenced by the student government, it would ruin our student-faculty relations.

Q: Do you see any strong support of the rule as it now stands?

Dean Bailey: As far as I know, the only cases that have been reported in the last two or three
years have been turned in to me by Mr. Linker. In the past two years, only one student, to my
knowledge, has reported a violation of this rule. They were predominantly reported by Mr. Linker.

As the meeting drew to a close, Dean Bailey briefly reviewed the history of the drinking problem, which, he claimed,
goes back to 1837. He stated that the present situation has evolved over the years, and that now the time
has arrived when we must decide whether drinking has become so commonplace that we ought to modify the rules.

Next Vagabonds Program

By RICK von UNWERTH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The next production of Vagabonds will be a presentation of four separate plays. The two-hour program will include Ring Lardner’s
“Tridgett of Greva,” and three one-act comedies. The program will be presented on three nights: Wednesday, Nov. 30, Thursday, Dec.
1, and Friday, Dec. 2.

This production will mark the Vagabonds' first attempt at straight comedy this year. According to W. F. Goodykoontz, adviser to
the Vagabonds, each of the one-act comedies will be a complete play, not a reading. “These plays were selected for
their humor,” said Goodykoontz, “and all three are very funny.”

“Tridgett of Greva,” by Ring Lardner, is an “allegorical, philosophical, metaphysical, romantic, erotic tragi-comedy.” Hansford Epes, co-ordinator of the Vagabond
staff, says that “the cast for this play is to be kept secret, for security reasons.”

Dr. Goodykoontz will direct the first of the comedies, a G. B. Shaw play entitled “Passion, Poison, and Petrifaction,” a
satirical melodrama. Kay Gross plays the feminine lead as Lady Magnesia, and Neal Bushoven will play the lover, Adolphus. Shari
Brawley, a North Mecklenburg High School student, is the maid, Phyllis. The cast also includes Walter Bost as the husband,
Forrest Roles as the policeman, Hansford Epes as the doctor, and Pat Douglas as the landlord. The angels will be
played by Bob Phillips and Vance Taylor.

The second comedy, “If Men Played Cards As Women Do,” is a drawing room farce featuring Benny Coxton and directed
by Professor Gross. The cast includes Dr. W. O. Puckett and (Continued On Page Four).
