FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1960

A LOOK AT.... SPORTS

By Bill Godwin

Wildcat Ups and Downs...

We present in this final issue a capsule report on the fall, spring, and winter sports. Overall, it was a familiar story this year. The big three — football, basketball, and baseball — suffered horribly at Davidson, while the minor sports in general and swimming and golf in particular had outstanding seasons.

After 5 Years, A Calamity...

Want of adequate scholarship aid has finally dropped the boom on the football team, and many. We're not sure. A squad which managed only one win in nine games after five straight years above the .500 mark had to have reasons, however. Uppermost on the list were Charlie Benson's injuries. Coach Bill Dole put all his money on the senior quarterback — he had to — and he lost.

This fall Dole will have more depth. If he can combine Tee Redding and Duncan Morton and come up with a healthy Benson, we'll be looking for an even break on the schedule.

Finished High, Looking Higher...

An exciting soccer team ran over everybody but nationally ranked UNC and State. Hustle and hard play produced seven wins for Coach Paul Marrotte’s crew. Claude Finney, All-Southern goalie last year, will be captain of this fall’s team, which should show even better.

Pete Whittle’s harriers were 7-2 on the season. Senior Bill Eckbert, who placed third in the loop meet, and David Gilmour made All-Conference. Gilmour will be back as a junior this fall with Bob Thompson and an array of sophomores and juniors.

Danger—Don’t Look Back...

The Wildcat cagers have everything to gain and nothing to lose this winter. With a new coach, Charles (Lefty) Driesell, and a couple of new varsity faces, Davidson will be trying hard to forget a dismal 5-19 season. The material was there, but just didn’t click. Eddie Stewart and John Huie are graduating, but returning will be Joe Markee, Bill Shinn, Jim Nuckolls, Jerry Bussell, Tom Harris, Allen Millar, D. G. Martin, and Bob Moore. A couple of rising sophomores, Bill Jarman and Haywood Evans, should see a lot of action.

Catfish Couldn’t Quit...

The Davidson swimming team has to be rated the best ever. First-year coach Dwight Shoe saw his tankers break or tie every school record and romp to a second-place finish in the Southern Conference meet. Seniors John Scott, Bill Hellier, and Smitty Smith were the sparkplugs of an 8-2 season. A perfect record may be in store for this winter. Heading returnees are Tom Hudgins, Barry Branch, Jack Rose, George Gabel, and Stefan Young, who topped the conference in the breaststroke.

Coach Charlie Parker's grapplers had to settle for a 2-5-1 season’s record and a fifth-place finish in the loop tourney. Leading wrestlers were seniors Milton Gee and Alex Porter, sophomore Jim Alexander, and junior Cliff Thompson. It'll be a rough climb this season.

The ROTC riflers fell to sixth place in the conference tournament. Senior Joe Wearn was high man all season long. Sgt. James McCurry expects a better-balanced team next year.

Pitching, Fielding Hurt ‘Cats...

With two single games left to go against The Citadel, Davidson had dropped 11 of 17. The big bats of Tom Harris, Ed Hines, Russ Cotton, and Harry Cline held most of the season, but afield the Wildcats were spotty and the pitching staff, led by senior Dee Green, was not dependable. Prospects for 1961 will hinge on pitching quality. Some help for Coach Tom Stevens’ crew will come from the freshman squad.

Whittle’s trackmen went into the Southern Conference meet today with a 5-2 record. Losses to powerhouses Furman and VPI were by narrow margins. Pole vaulter John Huie and javelin thrower Stuart Nickles set records this year and will graduate along with two-miler Bill Eckbert. But the Wildcats should remain strong in 1961 with Ed Kizer, David Gilmour, Mike Laughlin, Hugh Murray, Bob Thompson, Roger Beebe, Pat Currie, Bill Coffey, and others.

The Tourney Was Worth It All...

Coach Tom Scott's golfers wound up the season with a better-than-average 9-8 record, but their conference tournament victory was the prize. Junior Verner Stanley was medalist. All other team members — Tom Johnson, Eb LeMaster, Curley MacQueen, Sut Alexander, Bob Avinger, and Claude Finney — will graduate. Scott will fill up the team with freshmen.

Davidson's netters, having under first-year coach Ted Keesler, compiled a 5-9 record and placed third in the loop tournament. No. 6 man Jim Hamilton was the lone finals winner. The Wildcats, whose only loss to graduation will be Harry Pesca, face a tough schedule, including Miami and Presbyterian. The team will again be built around Doug Orr and Finley.

Cindermen Seek SC

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

This afternoon the Davidson College track team took the field for their final outing of the year in the Southern Conference meet at William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va. Says Coach Whittle, “It is almost a certainty that The Citadel will walk away with the championship, with Furman, V.M.I., and William and Mary finishing behind them in that order.”

ONE BY ONE

But the Wildcat team is capable of fine performances on an individual level in many of the events. Davidson’s squad for this meet numbers eleven men. Of these, five are taking the field for the last time for the Wildcat team:

RECORD HOLDERS

Captain Stuart Nickles, who holds the school record of 196 feet 1½ inches in his event, will throw the javelin.

Co-captain John Huie will high jump and pole vault for the Wildcats — his height of 12 feet 6 inches is a school record in the pole vault. Senior Chet Alexander will run the 440, and seniors Bill Eckbert and Larry McNeill will run the two-mile.

HOP-STEP-JUMPER

Other tracksters who are competing in this meet are Andy Boggs in the discus and hop-step-jump; Ed Kizer in the 100 and 220 yard dashes; and Roger Beebe in the 440. John Chiles will broad jump and enter the hop-step-jump. Rounding out the team will be Harris and Bob Thompson in the 880. Hugh Murray and Mike Laughlin will compete in both the broad jump and hop-step-jump at the meet in Williamsburg. Seniors on the Davidson squad who did not make the trip to Williamsburg include injured Brownie Thurman and Dave Warden.

FIVE-TWO RECORD

This meet marks the completion of a very successful season for the Wildcat thinclads. Under the direction of Pete Whittle the ‘Cats compiled a record of five wins against only two defeats in dual meet competition.

In a season which saw five school records fall, the Davidson team successfully defended their crown at the High Point relays held on April 30. This — renamed as the Davidson-High Point relays — is to become an annual meet.

The season also marked a sharp rise of student interest in track fortunes. Added help for next year may come from freshmen Burns, Fraser, Martin, and Hamilton.

The outmanned Wildcats, who finished fifth in the Conference meet last year, are expected to do little better this year.

Baseballers Wind Up — Against Loop Leader

By JIM PRESSLY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

BULLETIN — Ed Hines hit a single off Citadel pitcher Dick Almes in the bottom of the eighth inning here today, which was bobbled by the left-fielder, and then scored an error to give Davidson's Dee Green a 7-6 win over the Citadel. The game knocked Citadel from the Southern Conference lead.

The conference-leading Citadel brings a well-balanced baseball team to Davidson for two games this weekend. Should the ‘Cats take both games, they would finish the season with an 8-12 record.

The first game was to be played this afternoon and the Saturday contest is scheduled for 1:30 p.m.

The Wildcats may face two of the Southern Conference's top hurlers, Ed Colby and Dick Almes. Asked about Davidson starting pitchers, Coach Stevens commented, “I still don't know for sure, but probably Daves, Harris, or Dee Green will start.”

Coach Stevens was optimistic about his chances for a single or double win — “it could happen.”

The Davidson College golf team beat N.C. State in the final match of the season Monday at Myers Park Country Club by a score of 304 to 321.

Davidson had 11 hits in the game but looked sloppy in the field, making seven errors. Cecil Holcomb had the big blow of the day for Davidson, smashing a home run over the centerfield fence. Catcher Harry Cline had four hits in five trips to the plate.

With two games remaining, Tom Harris isLeading David Verner Stanley was medalist with a .371 average. Ed Hines is right behind with .365 and 18 RBIs. Cline is third with a .333 average and leads in RBIs with 20. Russ Cotton is the only other player hitting over .300. Cotton is hitting .304. Wildcat pitching records are Dee Green 3-6, Nick Daves 2-2, Jerry Shelton 1-1, and Graham Showalter 0-2. Prospects for next year’s team seem bright, with many top men returning. Key men lost by graduation will be Killian, Green, and Rucker. This year’s sophomores will form the bulk of next year’s Wildcat nine. Cline, Harris, Hines, Smith, Tom Johnson, Sut Alexander, Eb LeMasters, Curley MacQueen, Bob Avinger, and Claude Finney, the remaining members of the championship team, are all lost through graduation.

After completing a very good first round, from which all but one doubles team advanced into the semi-finals, the 'Cats fell down somewhat on Friday in the semis.

HANDICAP HURTS
Doug Orr was downed by Jack Sterling of The Citadel in what was somewhat of an upset. Orr, who had beaten Sterling at Davidson, was not feeling very well, however, and was taking Coricidin tablets all Friday morning. In other semi-final matches, Finley Lee lost to Jim Whitehead (GW); Monty Crook (Citadel) defeated Harry Broome; Andy Sherrill was dropped by Elliot Swift (GW); and Stefan Young got beat by Dick Fischman (GW). Meanwhile, Jim Hamilton, who drew a bye in the first round, won his match and advanced to the finals. In semi-final doubles contests, Broome and Sherrill lost to Swift and Fischman (GW) in three sets, while Young and Bobby Snead were progressing into the finals.

HAMILTON WINS
Then, in the finals on Saturday, Hamilton captured his division by whipping Larry Church of GW, 6-3, 6-4; but “Hambone’s” victim teamed up with Ken Silverstone to drop Young and Snead, 6-4, 8-6. Thus, the 'Cat racket men completed their season, during which they compiled a 6-9 won-lost record (2-2 in conference play). However, the record is nothing indicative of their actual capabilities.

The Phi Delts, with less than a week of intramural softball and tennis remaining, have almost wrapped up the I-F championship for what will be their fourth straight year. The Sigma Nus and Independents, respectively. On Tuesday, the Kappa Sigs whipped the Sigma Chis 8-1; the Betas defeated the Pikas 22-16; the SAE’s nosed out the Pi Kapps 15-14; and the Phi Gams trounced the Sigma Nus 28-6. Wednesday was another day of football scores as the Phi Delts nosed out the Independents 14-12; the Kappa Sigs dropped the ATO’s 15-6; the Pi Kapps beat the Sigma Nus 7-6; the Pikas defeated the Sigma Chis 7-6; and the SPE’s forfeited to the Phi Gams. In the tennis competition, John Warlick (SPE) faces Newt Burns (SX), and Rick Aderhold (SAE) goes against Robert Davidson (Beta) in the semifinals of the championship bracket.

SOFTBALL STANDINGS THROUGH WEDNESDAY
Kappa Sig 10-1
Phi Delt 9-2
Sigma Chi 8-3
Phi Gam 7-4
Pi Kapp 6-5
Sigma Nu 5-6
Ind. 4-7
SPE 3-8

This week THE DAVIDSONIAN spotlights two unique Wildcats: Jim Hamilton and Verner Stanley. Hamilton, former sports editor of this newspaper, was the only member of Davidson's tennis team to score a win in the Southern Conference finals this year. He is a senior. Stanley, a junior, is the sole Wildcat golfer who will return next year. Consistently shooting in the low 70’s all season, Stanley was Southern Conference medalist at Mid Pines with an 18-hole total of 147.

NO. 6 CAME THROUGH
“Hambone” made his first trip to the Southern Conference this year, playing in the sixth singles position. He defeated George Washington’s Larry Church in the finals, 6-3 and 6-4. “I just knocked them (the balls) back,” Jim modestly said. The slim netter played No. 5 and 6 during the regular season, as he racked up Davidson's best singles record, 11-6. In conference competition, Jim was 6-0. He and Bob Huffaker were 6-1 in doubles. Jim handed a lot of credit to Coach Ted Keesler, who is in his first year at Davidson. “Next year we ought to be Southern Conference champs,” he said. “GW and The Citadel (who finished 1-2 ahead of the Wildcats) will lose three men.”

Davidson Places 3rd In Tennis Tourney
The Davidson College tennis team, under the direction of Coach Ted Keesler, finished up their season last weekend at Washington, D.C., by finishing third in the Southern Conference Tournament. The 'Cats grabbed 11 points in the tournament behind first place George Washington, who bagged 22 points, and second-place Citadel with 20. Fourth place went to William and Mary, who managed 6 points.

RUGGED SCHEDULE
But a good won-lost record was impossible due to the rugged schedule, which included such teams as nationally ranked Miami and North Carolina; Atlantic Coast stronghorses Wake Forest, Duke, and N.C. State; always tough Presbyterian; plus conference opposition. Playing their final season for Davidson were seniors Harry Broome, Jim Hamilton, and Bob Huffaker. Huffaker played in about half the matches but was greatly handicapped by his many afternoon labs. Looking back over the season, Hamilton stated, “Coach Keesler deserves a lot of credit. He held fall practice to get us in shape, and then got us a tough schedule, which gave us some invaluable experience.”

FIVE RETURN
Next year, five lettermen (Orr, Lee, Sherrill, Young, and Snead) will return to the courts for Davidson. In addition to these, the freshman team, led by Bobby Austell, may provide a lot of help. With this nucleus of tennis players, the outlook is bright for the 'Cats.

This year Coach Tom Scott had a golf team “which could compete on a given day with any ACC team,” said Stanley. Verner was one of the big reasons why the Wildcats could do so. He took the leading role Monday as the linksters avenged an early season loss to N.C. State, whipping the Wolfpack 16-11. Verner shot a 69.

AT AN EARLY AGE
Before he was 16, Verner had played in several national junior amateur tournaments in states such as California, Connecticut, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Georgia. “All” of his family are golfers. “My father started me off with a golf club and has encouraged me all along. To Verner, Coach Scott is “the best.” “I'm glad he schedules ACC teams. I think Carolina ranks with the top intercollegiate squads.”

Let Us Freshen the Impression of All Your Clothes. Bring Us Your Spring Wear and Shirts So As To Be Ready for Your Summer Vacation.
JACKSON CLEANERS
Main Street — Davidson