’ ; ‘CATS FAVORED IN WOFFORD GAME (See Page Three) VOL. XLIX — IFC to the campus. Stating that his usual practice is to refuse speaking engagements at colleges and universities, Uris accepted the invitation extended by YMCA representative Joe Robinson by saying: “I find your invitation so tempting that I am unable to decline.” Joe Robinson, student leader in charge of this YMCA project commented that “the enthusiasm and support which the Book-of-the-Semester Program received last year demands a continuation of Gh e Dautdsontan The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1960 DR COURT OF CONTROL AWS SCORN (See Page Two) NUMBER Two Contracts Miller, Hi-Lo’s Sets January For Program Climax Leon Uris, author of the recent best-selling novel Exodus, has accepted an invitation to appear here at Davidson College. He will participate in the second of a series of programs initiated last year by Vance Packard and The Status Seekers. These programs feature outstanding and controversial books and bring their authors this project.” He then announced two innovations concerning the overall program. The series is to be held annually only and will be called the Book-of-the-Year Program. In addition, Dr. Max Polley, Professor of Bible, will act as faculty adviser to the program. Faculty support will thus encourage the Book-of-the-Year Program. Acting upon his committee's decision to feature a contemporary novel, Robinson corresponded during the summer Cole Praises Rush Week, Exhorts Better Regulations The IFC termed the 1960 Freshman Rush Week a “great success” after its evaluation meeting Monday night with all the fraternity “I personally thought everything went very well except for the frantic mixup in mailing bids Saturday morning,” said Jerry Cole, IFC president. “I want to express my appreciation to the rush chairman and IFC members for the splendid job they did.” Several factors in the Rush Week program will be changed as a result of the evaluation. Two of these involve the length of time fraternity men can rush freshmen, “During the next rush week, the IFC will enforce end of rushing at 10:15 p. m. each night outside the dorms,” Cole said. “There was too much lingering after parties this year.” The other move affects the 15 minute gentleman's agreement on dorm rushing. Though they realized this rule was rush chairman. broken, chairmen felt there was such an improvement over last year, that it could be excused. A closer watch will be made on this agreement in the future, however. In order to prevent another mailing mixup, the various fraternities will deliver their sealed bids to the IFC president during future rush weeks. He will then deliver all the bids to the postman early on the morning of pledging and keep a duplicate list of names as a double check. “One other worthwhile suggestion from Monday's meeting was for the IFC to keep someone by a definite phone all rush week to answer any questions by rushers or rushees and quickly solve any problems which might arise,” Cole explained. with leading publishing houses asking for suggestions of new or forthcoming novels suitable for such a program. From the many suggestions received, Exodus was the first choice Second choice was SEASON OF FEAR by Guy Owen, a former Professor of Philosophy of Davidson College, which is a story of integration and interracial turmoil in western North Carolina and an appeal for an intelligent understanding of the South's problem in its attempt to integrate the Negro into present-day Southern society. James Warburg's Reveille For Rebels, which presents a challenge to modern Americans to investigate their relationship to the other peoples of the world and is a speculative interpretation of America’s future political and economic role in world affairs, was the third choice. The program will center around Uris’ novel, which tells the story of the mass immigration of the Jewish people out of the ghettos of eastern Europe and from the centuries-old prejudice of western Europe and America into the newly-founded state of Israel, and Exodus Revisited, a pictorial and factual complement to the fictionalized story. Uris presents a vivid picture of Jewish persecution from its Medieval origins down to the present and one which is backed by extensive research and travel through eastern Europe and Israel. This book was chosen because of this young nation is some- (Continued on Page Four) statement an te examinations can be good ad d Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the faculty, 1AN interview on Wednesday. istered in a routine desultory way they can be worse than having no comprehensives at all,” he continued. Dean Johnston said that the curriculum committee of the faculty had been investigating for some time the possibility of having comprehensives. He stated that a list of questions was given to the faculty last Spring which included a request for faculty reaction to the question of comprehensives. “The curriculum committee has gone over the answers from the faculty and has decided that comprehensive examinations is one important for Davidson College When questioned as were some of the evils comprehensives examinations Johnston replied, “In schools comprehensive nations are meaningless no one is ever flunked. may occur when the examinations are given by members of the college faculty and not by some one outside of the college community.” Dean Johnston emphasized that no one device or procedure can necessarily ensure idea it wishes to pursue,” ) @ good education, for it is said Dr. Johnston. “We have opinions from over 121 other schools regarding comprehensives. Some of the schools like the examinations and some do not; I feel that one can argue in either direction.” “Davidson has come to departmentalize its courses more than some schools which results in a lot of cramming. This is not real learning.” Dr. Johnston continued. “Comprehensives can help this situation even if administered by local professors, but comprehensives can improve the situation even more by having outside examiners.” possible to have an excellent college without having comprehensive examinations. When asked what the curriculum committee plans to do in the near future regarding comprehensives Dean Johnston replied, “Dr. Abernethy and I are going to visit several schools in October. The purpose of our visits will be primarily to examine this question and get what evidence we can.” Dean Johnston stated that he was not certain when the curriculum committee would reach a decision concerning any type “But if the comprehensive in DAVIDSON. tions are administered of recommendation to the faculty about comprehensives, but that a decision may be reached in the first semester. Union Fetes Team At "Varsity Punch” “Pigskin Punch,” a party featuring the 1960 Davidson football team, will be held in the Morrison Room of the College Union immediately after the Citadel football game here, October 1. A combo will be featured for listening enjoyment and dancing. Punch and other refreshments will be served. C. Shaw Smith, Director of the College Union, stated that the main purpose of the “Punch” would be to give Davidson students and other people at the game to “show their appreciation to the Davidson football squad.” The party is being offered free to all students and their dates, and others who attend the game. “Pigskin Punch” will be very informal and will last, terian Alliance. approximately an hour. THE HI-LO’S Committee Picks ‘Exodus’ Variety Will Be Feature Of Homecoming Gaiety Jerry Cole, president of the Interfraternity Council announced this week will be featured at a Saturday night concert. McKinley took over the famous Glenn Miller Air Force band when Miller disappeared during World War II. After McKinley's 1960 Otts Lecture Series Presents Noted Speakers This year, the Otts Lecture Series will on the general theme, ‘Perspectives Theology.” Each lecturer will speak on a Tuesday night in Lingle Chapel, and will be on campus several days to visit classes, and, in certain cases, to speak in vespers. lecturers omen, In Contemporary This lecture series was established by a gift from the Rev. J. M. P. Otts who delivered the first lectures in 1893. Since that time, the lectures have taken place every two to five years. This year, the planning committee, headed by Dr. L. B. Schenck, has provided for four lecturers, each speaking once, rather than the former system of bringing one man for the entire series. HARVARD PROFESSOR On November 1, Professor Paul L. Lehmann, of Reeve University, will deliver the first lecture of the series. Professor Lehmann is particularly interested in the area of social ethics, and will speak on “What Is a Christian Act?” Dr. Lehmann has taught at Elmhurst College and has been professor of applied Christianity at Princeton Theological Seminary. He has served as associate religious editor for the Westminster Press, and is a member of the World Council of Churches. Among his books are Forgiveness and Re-educating Germany. CHRISTOLOGY SPECIALIST Professor Albert C. Outler, aSpecialist on the doctrine of Christ at Southern Methodist University, will lecture on November 29. His address is entitled, “Christology In a New Key.” Dr. Outler has served as professor of theology at both Duke and Yale Universities. He is now a member of the World Council of Churches. He has written several books, among which are A Christian Context For Counseling, Psychotherapy and the Christian Message, and The Christian Tradition and the Unity We Seek.

McCORD OF PRINCETON
The President of Princeton Theological Seminary, Dr. James I. McCord, will deliver his lecture on March 7. Dr. McCord will concern himself with the doctrine of the Ecumenical Church. Dr. McCord was professor of systematic theology and dean at Austin Seminary before moving to Princeton in 1959. In 1958, he served as Chairman of the North America Area Council of the World Presbyterian Council.

The final speaker, Professor Joseph Sittler, will present a lecture entitled, “Violence and Meaning.” Professor Sittler, who is on the faculty of the University of Chicago, will speak on April 17.

(Continued On Page Four)

After his release from the Air Force, however, the orchestra disbanded.

RECORDINGS RELEASED
About 10 years later, the movie “The Glenn Miller Story” and a number of original Miller recordings were released. The Miller estate then chose McKinley to reorganize the band.

DEBBIE LANG
Of political speakers this fall, including President. Also, Dr. Minter’s Great Issues in Politics Committee has scheduled Sen. R. W. Yarborough, Texas senator, for a speech and discussion program. Mr. David Henderson, Davidson graduate of 1942, spoke in Assembly on Thursday. He was a major in the South Pacific Theater during World War II, and now resides with his wife and three children in Wallace, N.C., where he was county judge for seven years.

Mr. Robert L. Gavin will speak in Assembly on Tuesday, September 27. He attended North Carolina schools and was admitted to the North Carolina Bar in 1949. He has been both Assistant District Attorney and District Attorney. While District Attorney, he prosecuted Junius Scales, the Carolinas head of the Communist Party. He is a veteran of World War II and a member of the American Legion, the Elks, and the Rotary Club.

Union Slates Series
The College Union is sponsoring several political speakers. Mr. David Henderson, Democratic nominee for Congress; L. Gavin, Republican nominee for Governor, and Texan Sen. Lyndon B. Johnson, Democratic nominee for Vice-President.

Forces Shake-Up
McKinley himself is a drummer, a singer, and a TV personality. He began his musical career in the early thirties as a drummer in the Ben Pollack band, which is widely known among jazz enthusiasts. He was forced to leave Pollack when he was shot in the leg with a stray bullet as some gangsters invaded the nightclub in which he was playing. Featured with the Miller Orchestra is the Lenny Hambro Quintet, a jazz combo. Hambro’s quintet has also made several recordings. Also featured is the band’s vocalist, Debbie Lang.

HI-LO’S CONCERT
On Saturday night from 8 to 9:30 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium, the Hi-Lo’s will present a concert. The Hi-Lo’s, a vocal quartet, have appeared at famous nightclubs throughout the country, on numerous television shows, and in three movies. They also have made commercials for Newport and Kent Cigarettes and Schlitz Beer. They have made several recordings for Columbia Records. The group has been singing together since 1953. Accompanying the Hi-Lo’s for their concert will be either the Jimmy Farr Orchestra from Columbia, S.C., or the Duke Ambassadors, who played at Mid-Winters last year. Following the concert, either the Farr Orchestra or the Ambassadors will provide music for dancing in the gym until midnight.

NO MORE TUX?
Cole said that the IFC may decide to make the Friday night dance semi-formal. “We feel that more people will come if they have to wear a coat and tie instead of a tux,” he said. The council will decide about this at its Monday night meeting. Cole said that the IFC will also sponsor the annual homecoming decorations contest. Prizes for the contest have not been decided on. Cole said that the Homecoming queen contest may be discarded in favor of a Quips and Cranks beauty contest to be held later in the fall. “I'm really enthused over the weekend,” Cole said. “I think it's going to be a good one. We hope it will be very successful with the concert emphasized on Saturday night rather than another dance.”

Vespers Features
Dr. George Buttrick, famed clergyman and author of a number of books, will speak at vespers on September 25. Buttrick, preacher to Harvard University and Plummer Professor of Christian Morals from 1955 through last year, is entering his first year as a professor at Union Theological Seminary in New York City. He is the author of “Sermons Preached in a University Church.” He is general editor of “The Interpreter’s Bible.” Buttrick was president of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America. He has appeared on the Davidson campus before. In 1956, Buttrick delivered the Otts Lectures and two years ago he participated in the YMCA religious emphasis week. He has also spoken at vespers on a previous occasion.

In order that as many students as possible may hear Dr. Buttrick, vespers for all classes will be held in Chambers Auditorium this week.

Celebrated Author
The Davidsonian learned this afternoon that History 21 (ancient history) will not be taught this semester. Dr. B. D. Thompson will teach History 23 (medieval history) in place of Dr. McGeachy. Bill Kuykendall, ’55 was asked to take the courses, but was unable to leave his work on a doctorate at Johns Hopkins.

Mr. Robert McGeachy Ailment
Dean of faculty Frontis W. Johnston said Wednesday that Dr. J. A. McGeachy Jr. will be missing from the Davidson faculty for a period of two to six weeks. McGeachy, whose field is ancient and medieval history, has entered Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte with a back ailment. Dr. B. D. Thompson will take over McGeachy’s freshman courses, and Dr. Johnston will teach History 13, the junior-senior version of the basic course. Dr. McGeachy is being treated in Presbyterian hospital in Charlotte, where he has been since Wednesday. His ailment has been diagnosed as a herniated disc. If traction treatments are successful, he may be back in two weeks; if surgery is necessary, it may be over six weeks.

About the middle of October, Sen. Lyndon B. Johnson will be campaigning in Charlotte. Ed Johnston, chairman of the College Union Roundtable Committee, is attempting to lure him to Davidson, but it will not be known until early October whether he is successful. Sen. R. W. Yarborough will discuss current political affairs in the Union Ballroom at 8 P.M. on October 11.

Class Votes Tuesday On Honor Court Post
Juniors Bob Stone and Allen Millar were nominated by the Student Council Monday to fill the Honor Court post left vacant by transfer Graham Allison. Further nominations will be made by members of the junior class next Monday and voting by the class will take place Tuesday until 1 P.M.

In accordance with the rules of the Student Body Constitution, five faculty representatives were present for the voting: Dr. Minter, Dr. Pietenpel, Dr. Marrotte, Dr. Puckett, and Mr. Horton.

In further voting, the Council elected John Cooley, a junior, to take Allison’s place on the Religious Life Committee. The Council also decided not to accept the responsibility for conduct during the Monday student assembly but will leave this up to the faculty. The Council did, however, carry on with its plan to control student conduct at the Sunday night Vesper service. Council members will be stationed in pairs at strategic points in the church during the service. No further official action was taken by the Council. President Shue did, however, appoint several committees to discuss some new ideas. Briefly, these were as follows:

The Council is considering affiliating itself with the National Student Association. President Shue pointed out that at one time the Harvard Student Council had withdrawn its membership with the N.S.A. and had charged it as being Communistic. However, further study has proved that the Association was not Communist, but only very liberal.

The Council is also investigating the possibility of having the library opened each night until 12 o’clock instead of closing at the usual 11 P.M. Other topics under consideration are revision of the Student Body Constitution, Honor Court procedure, and problems which may be encountered in sophomore rush.