College Approves New Curriculum Changes
By JACK HAND
Davidsonian Staff Writer

A new course, English 24, Seminar in Masters of English Literature, will be offered in place of English 22 for those students “who have shown a high standard of proficiency in English 11” and will be allowed to substitute another three-hour English course for English 12. This will be done under department approval and direction.

Last Tuesday, the faculty approved several curriculum changes which had been proposed by the curriculum committee. The most pertinent changes were in the Bible and English departments. Among the changes approved was a revision in the program of the Bible Department. Beginning with the class of 1964, all freshmen will be required to take Bible 11 and 12. Bible 11 will deal with the Old Testament, while Bible 12 will be concerned with the life and ministry of Jesus Christ. The second year of Bible, which may be taken in the sophomore, junior, or senior years, will offer a wide variety of choices taken from among courses in church history, theology, etc.

TUTORIAL STUDY

A tutorial study has been added to the program of the Bible Department. This course will allow independent study in the fields of Bible and religion. It will also be possible for students to receive three hours of Bible credit for either Greek 31-32 (New Testament Greek), or Philosophy 41-54 (Philosophy of Religion).

Several changes were also made in the English Department. These changes concern the requirements of the major English writers. English 21-22, a course in Types of Literature in English, will be offered in place of English 22 for those students “who manifest special interest and skills and who have a particular desire to benefit from the seminar-discussion type of instruction.” English 21-22 centers around the works of only the major English writers. This is done with the belief that A. B. candidates will take additional courses in English.

In addition to these changes made in the program for second-year English, some changes have been made in the freshman programs by inclusion of more selective courses. Qualified freshmen who have shown “a high standard of proficiency in English 11” will be allowed to substitute another three-hour English course for English 12. This will be done under department approval and direction.

In an interview earlier this week, Dr. F. W. Johnston, Dean of Faculty, stated, “The English and Bible changes are efforts to broaden and liberalize the program. All students will also give the superior student an opportunity to go out on his own.” Dr. Johnston also stated that no action has been taken on the proposed ROTC changes.

The curriculum committee, which proposed these changes, is comprised of Dr. Johnston and Professors Abernethy, Drake, Labban, McGavock, McGeachy, and Workman.

Faculty Voices Favor Of Comprehensives
By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Comments secured from members of the faculty and administration this week showed a large majority in favor of comprehensive examinations for seniors in their majors. Most of the faculty members approved senior theses although there were some reservations on this matter.

Dean Johnston stated that “Twenty-two years ago I was head of a faculty committee on comprehensives and tried to get them in then. I am certainly sympathetic to the idea. Both comps and senior theses have been under discussion in the curriculum committee all year. As yet there has been no decision made but one should be derived at between now and summer. If we installed comprehensives, they could not be taken for granted. Rather they should be a climax to one’s college career. The faculty would have to be hard-boiled. If they become taken for granted it will be the faculty’s fault.”

Students demonstrated Olympic abilities as Davidson became Squaw Valley when over nine inches of snow fell Wednesday, the biggest snow at Davidson in thirty-three years.

Conservative Influence Amazes English Student
By GLYN HUGHES

It is nearly six months since I came to Davidson, and I will not go into all the many really fine things that I have found here. As I become more and more integrated into the system, so I find myself, whether I like it or not, more and more concerned with student problems. The very fact that there are some recognized problems and some real issues being fought out, shows that there are students radical-minded and idealistic enough to try to change what they consider to be some of the injustices and inconsistencies which they see around them. This is as it should be in any college or university, traditionally the source of liberal thinking for each generation. Coming from a country whose universities are nevertheless the centers of the progressive movements, I am surprised to find such a strong conservative influence here.

But even more surprising is the number of students who are completely apathetic towards all the most important issues. This is more than the unusually large reactionary group, it is the number of fraternities’ demands on their members.

Faculty Rebukes Council; Discusses Greek System
By DON SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Faculty released two motions to THE DAVIDSONIAN, concerning IMAC action and fraternity activities, after its meeting on Tuesday, March 1. Several other topics were discussed, including the fraternity rushing system. Professor C. J. Pietenpol, Chairman of the Faculty Fraternity Committee, conducted the discussion to which the six professors and six IFC representatives contributed in an effort to bring to light arguments for and against the current system.

Independent Charles Ringe, representative to the IC, discussed the stigma attached to being an independent. Said Ringe, “One of the biggest problems would be the extra teaching load that it would place on the professors.” Dean Bailey said, “I am in favor of moving toward comprehensives. However, I don't think every department should install them at once. Perhaps we could start in the departments that are already set up for honors work. I am not sure if theses would work at this level. There have been questions raised about how well they work in colleges.”

President Martin commented that he really did not know enough about the subject to voice an opinion, but agreed.

15 Finalists Reach Snowbound Davidson

Scholarship Weekend, although officially cancelled because of bad weather and consequent transportation difficulties, found about fifteen scholarship finalists on the Davidson campus. All the rest of the fifty-three finalists were contacted and told that the weekend was called off. These fifteen, guided by student hosts, attended various classes and a special chapel program on Thursday morning.Afternoon tests were given. Dean White said, “We are foregoing tests at this point. We already have a good many previous test results.” The only mention of sophomore rush was as a possible remedy to the supposed lethargic and harmful atmosphere of fraternity life at Davidson. The second motion passed unanimously by the Faculty reads as follows: “That the Intramural Athletic Council be requested to defer enforcement of its ruling regarding participation of inactives in intramural sports until the faculty rules on the case; and that the Committee on Student Health and Physical Education be authorized to investigate the facts and the issues involved and report its findings, with recommendations, to the faculty.”

The group discussed a statement, prepared for general circulation by several fraternity members, strongly favoring a sophomore rushing system. “It is because the material received by incoming freshmen overemphasizes the importance of fraternities,” and because freshmen are not given sufficient time to think about the consequences of not pledging a fraternity. McKeithen argued that any “stigma” would remain until independents expressed themselves, “not necessarily as a formal association,” but as a group. Later that same evening, Prof. W. F. Goodykoontz spoke to the regular meeting of the IFC on problems in the fraternity system at Davidson. Basing his observations on conferences with members of his freshman English classes, Goodykoontz confined his remarks largely to pledge training effects on his students.

The first motion approved by the Faculty reads as follows: “That the study of rushing, pledging, and pre-initiation activities be requested, and to bring in a report with recommendations to the faculty at the April meeting, if possible.” An amendment, the exact wording of which could not be obtained at the present time, was passed concerning Greek Week activities, specifically. It said that all fraternities would be required to present to the Faculty Committee on Fraternities a complete list of all pre-initiation activities, in addition to the list of the same nature required by the IFC.

Dr. Purcell of the English department believed that “comprehensives would be very valuable. We have talked about it in the English department and have made tentative plans on the matter. We have given some thought to having outside examiners give the tests. I believe that comprehensives would be more valuable than theses. I am not sure that all the time given to a thesis could not be better spent.” Dr. Goodykoontz, also of the English department, said, “I favor comprehensives because I believe they will encourage better academic performance by upperclassmen and will discourage the present tendency to study only at review and exam times. I think that comprehensives would also justify the free cut system. I believe that there is no adequate substitute for written expression because to be effective the writer must not only mold his ideas into complete thoughts, but also relate them clearly to one another. Some students write little or nothing after their freshman term papers. A serious paper (Continued On Page Four).”

Hears From Goodykoontz joined last Monday night against proposed changes in the present way. Said Goodykoontz, as chairman of the Faculty Fraternity Committee, “I would rather give fraternities a whole week out of the year, if that would be the only time they required, and if they didn’t interfere at other times.” He pointed out, however, that this time factor was not the only issue involved. “I seem to find an attitude that responsibility to the fraternity takes precedence over responsibility to the school program,” he noted, “and this worries me. In conflicts of interest, provided the aims of each are clear, shouldn’t the interests of the college override the interests of the fraternity?” he asked.

Several fraternity representatives pointed out that it was unfair for Goodykoontz to generalize about the whole fraternity system because of a few reports from his students. The professor replied that he was unable to get satisfactory answers because he was consistently met with a “public relations approach” and “defensive attitude” of fraternity members, and so was forced to generalize. McKeithen commented, “We can solve the time factor by pushing Greek Week to the first or second week in February. But I’m afraid that this other factor will not be so easy. It is up to each individual fraternity to re-examine its goals seriously.”

The College Union has scheduled a debate at 7:30 Wednesday night in the ballroom between IFC President Ward McKeithen and Dave Warden concerning the problems of a sophomore rushing system. The faculty and student body are invited to attend the debate and participate in an open forum discussion immediately following the debate.

When asked about the possibility of another Scholarship Weekend, Dean White said, “We would like to have another one very much, but complications in the schedules of the faculty, the student hosts, and the finalists mean that it is not likely.” Mr. White also expressed the hope that individual students would invite finalists to the Davidson campus for visits in the event that another Scholarship Weekend was not held.

Plans for today included more visits to classes and more interviews. The program was officially over at noon Friday, but some of the finalists may stay longer, either simply to see more of the college or because of transportation difficulties. None of the regularly scheduled activities, in addition to the list of the same nature required by the IFC, were affected.

A large part of the Faculty meeting was devoted to the discussion of fraternities. The connection between fraternities’ requirements on pledges and their performance in class recitations during the pre-initiation period was discussed at length. There was a feeling that the decreased proficiency of freshmen was wholly attributable to the fraternity’s drain on time, on which there is a great demand anyway. This question was brought before the faculty in a letter submitted by John Ricks, IMAC representative for Independents. His letter was accompanied by a student petition. The inactives are allowed to participate for the Independents in basketball, track, and handball, the intramural sports which are presently banned from do not start for some time.

IFC President Ward McKeithen said most were agreed that sophomore rushing would increase the size of the independent group. Prof. A. V. Goldiere of the Faculty Fraternity Committee said, however, “The faculty is not considering sophomore rush to reduce the size of the fraternity group on campus.” Goodykoontz correlates this change, in part, with the effect of fraternities. Specifically, he cited the fraternity’s drain on a freshman’s time, on which there is a great demand anyway.