‘CATS TAKE ON GRID GIANT (See Page Three) VOL. XLIX The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1960 OUR ASTROLOGER PREDICTS KENNEDY WIN (See Page Two) NUMBER EIGHT Eighteen
Seniors Chosen For National Who's Who Eighteen Davidson College Seniors have been chosen for this year's “Who’s Who Among Students
in American Colleges and Universities.” Among them are Rick Aderhold, Jim Anderson, Hutton Barron, Jim Bootle, Jerry Cole, Tyree Finch,
Stanley Gaines, Tom Hudgins, and Ed Kizer. Rounding out this select group are Scott Lacy, Robert L. Moore, Tom Parker,
Jim Richardson, Charlie Ringe, Henry Shue, Verner Stanley, Jack Taylor, and Bob Young. Students are chosen for “Who's Who” by
members of the faculty and administration on the basis of their participation in campus activities. Rick Aderhold is president of
Alpha Epsilon Delta, national honor pre-medical fraternity; a member of the Honor Court, the tennis team, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
social fraternity. Aderhold is from Greensboro. Jim Anderson is a member of the Interfraternity Council, Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta
Kappa, and Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Anderson is from Alexandria, Va. Hutton Barron is a recipient of a Charles
A. Dana Scholarship, and a member of the Student Council and Sigma Chi social fraternity. Barron is from Eufaula, Ala.
Jim Bootle is the Judge of the Court of Control, and a member of the IFC and Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity. Bootle is from Macon, Ga. Jerry Cole is president of the IFC, a member of the baseball team,
Omicron Delta Kappa, and Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Cole is from Yanceyville, N. C. Tyree Finch is vice-president of the
senior class, former president of the Intramural Athletic Council, and a member of the Student Council and Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity. Finch is from Georgetown, Texas. Stanley Gaines is captain of the rifle team, Cadet Commander of the Davidson
ROTC unit for the second semester, and a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Gaines is from Boyle, Mass. Tom
Hudgins is a member of the Honor Court, the swimming team, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.
Hudgins is from Greenville, S. C. Ed Kizer is a member of the Honor Court, the track team, Scabbard and
Blade, and Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Kizer is from Asheboro, N. C. Scott Lacy is chairman of the Honor Court,
member of the Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Lacy is from Washington, D. C. Robert L.
Moore is a member of the Honor Court, the IFC, Scabbard and Blade, and Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity. Moore
is from Harrisonburg, Va. Tom Parker is the former president of the junior class, a member of IFC, Scabbard and
Blade, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Parker is from Greenville, S. C. Jim Richardson is president (Continued on Page
Four) Parents To “Inspect” Campus Tomorrow By PAUL SIMPSON Davidsonian Staff Writer With the help of the faculty, the Freshman
Council under its new officers — Charlie Rowe, Pres.; Staff: Tom Warren, Vice-Pres.; John Spratt, Sec. — has completed its
plans for welcoming the Freshman parents to the Davidson campus on “their day” tomorrow. The purpose of this year’s Parent’s
Day is four-fold: To give the parents an opportunity to visit the campus at a time when they have been
invited to come and are expected. To give the parents an opportunity to meet some of their son’s teachers and
certain members of the administrative staff. To give the parents an opportunity to meet some of their son’s friends among
the students of the college. To give the faculty and administration an opportunity to meet the parents and to give
them certain information concerning the college’s program and regulations. Final scheduling of the day, expected to reach a balance between
activity and leisure, will be as follows: 9:00 a.m.-12:00 noon: Registration and tours of the campus. Coffee will be available
in the private dining room of the Union throughout the morning. 12:00 noon-2:00 p.m.: Lunch in the Dining Hall of
Chambers Building. 2:00 p.m.-3:00 p.m.: Assembly in the auditorium of Chambers Building. 3:00 p.m.-4:30 p.m.: Coffee Hour in the Dining
Hall of Chambers Building. All freshmen and their parents and all members of the faculty and administrative staff are invited
to be present. Faculty members who teach and work with freshmen will be present at the lunch and at the
afternoon coffee hour, giving ample opportunity for meetings with the freshmen’s parents. It is hoped these meetings will not be
devoted to the student's problems, but will be merely an occasion to get acquainted. If necessary, interviews may be arranged
for some other time. At the assembly, Dean of Students John C. Bailey, will explain some of the policies and
regulations of the college, and will attempt to anticipate and answer some of the questions parents most frequently ask. Parents,
their sons, and the freshman teachers will eat lunch in the Dining Hall. Visitors will be asked to pay a
charge of $1.50 per person for the meal. Kamm was riding to Charlotte with Harold Fisher, a member of the
junior class, when an approaching automobile swung in front of them to make a left turn. Fisher, traveling about 50
miles per hour, was unable to stop in time and the cars collided. Fisher had several teeth knocked out and
had to have some stitches taken in his chest. Kamm suffered a moderate concussion, cuts, a sprained wrist, and three
fractures in his right femur. The break in the thigh is too high to permit the use of a cast.
Kamm is now in the Charlotte Memorial Hospital, Room 406. Davidson Students Injured In Wreck Bert Kamm, exchange student from
Argentina, was seriously injured in a wreck Saturday, Oct. 29. Student Council Tables Proposed Court Plans By FRANK STAFFORD Davidsonian
Staff Writer Monday night the Student Council, after an hour's discussion of two proposed plans for next year’s Court of
Control, decided to table the matter until the next meeting. Apathy toward the Court was given as the reason for
this postponement. One of the proposals was presented by a special Student Council committee composed of Jerry Bussell, John Packer,
and Ty Finch. The other was presented by Tommy Colvin. The purpose stated in both proposals is to instill in
the freshmen the traditions of the college and to give them class unity and spirit. The committee’s plan calls for
the judge of the Court to be elected from the senior class by the student body; Colvin’s plan suggests that
the freshman advisor act as judge. In the past, the judge has been appointed by the Student Council. The committee
suggested doing away with the chapel procedure entirely, but would make offending freshmen wear yellow beanies as punishment for offenses.
MOTIONS PASSED The Council discussed these proposals point by point, voting on each successive action. A motion to have the
senior chap read out the names of the offenders was passed. Faculty Hears IFC Proposals, Agrees To Later Consideration Lack
Of Time Forces Tabling Of Action By JIM MOREA Davidsonian Staff Writer At last Monday night’s meeting of the IFC,
President Jerry Cole led a lengthy discussion of aspects of Sophomore Rush. Cole and two other council members appeared before
the afternoon faculty meeting to present their objections. (Davidsonian Photo by Abernathy). Jerry Cole, President of the IFC, presented the
proposals and, assisted by Jim Anderson and Tom Parker, answered faculty questions. The proposals that were submitted to the faculty
were (1) the IFC pledge regulation proposal, (2) a statement by the IFC Finance Committee, (3) a list of objections
to Sophomore Rush formulated by the IFC, (4) the existing pledge programs of nine fraternities, and (5) a petition opposing
Sophomore Rush signed by 521 of 732 fraternity men last spring. The IFC pledge proposal is the same one that
was considered by the IFC on October 3 and was defeated by one fraternity. Since that time the proposal has
been approved by all 12 fraternities and was presented to the faculty with only one addition, that the IFC had
voted to make every effort to schedule Greek Week for the first week of the second semester. Earlier, no formal
action had been taken on this matter. The IFC Finance Committee, under the supervision of Jerry Shelton, made a study
of fraternity finances and found that “Sophomore Rush will not only hurt the individual financially, but also the fraternity.” To
a few fraternities it may be impossible to continue to exist if they are not allowed to pledge freshmen. The
faculty agreed to consider the proposals at a later date. The faculty also approved the appointment of three IFC representatives
to the Co-ordinating Committee for Sophomore Rush. This committee will be composed of representatives from Student Council, IFC, YMCA, and
the Union. Its purpose will be to co-ordinate the planning of these organizations for the social, academic, and extracurricular activities
of the freshmen. Phi Bete Elects Six Seniors The N. C. Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic fraternity,
elected six members of the senior class to membership last week. The new members are: Jim Anderson, Hutton Barron, Jerry
Cole, Tom Hudgins, Scott Lacy, and Robert L. Moore.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

that the same freshman regulations as were used this year be used next year. Colvin said that he favored either
the present regulations or the addition of more rules, explaining that he “liked a firm Court of Control” and thought
“an advisory board was out of the question and wouldn’t accomplish anything.” The committee’s plan would have the names of
only those freshmen convicted of violations read out in freshman chapel. Colvin would do away with having the class elect
the judge of the Court and have the Student Council appoint the members. The motion passed seven to three. The
vote on the motion that the offending freshmen be contacted personally before trial and that the names of convicted violators
be read out in chapel was five in favor and four against. It was then moved to have next year's
regulations the same as this year’s. An amendment to this motion to the effect that the regulation prohibiting freshmen from
walking on the grass be omitted was then proposed. With this motion on the table, the Council decided to postpone
further discussion of the matter until next week. Student body president Henry Shue gave this as a reason: “Several members
of the Council said that some of the votes had been close and commented that the whole tone of the
Council seemed to be apathetic. It was felt that if we're this apathetic, maybe we should abolish the Court of
Control.”

The class of 1961 elected new members at its recent fall meeting. Elected to join Jim Anderson, who received his
bid last year, are: Jim Burke, Hansford Epes, Mike Grant, Tom Hudgins, Spiro Macris, and Henry Shue. Burke is a
premedical student from Lexington. He is a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity and has been active on the track
team. Epes, from Lynchburg, Va., is a German-English major. He holds a National Merit Scholarship. Epes is a member of
Sigma Nu fraternity and Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity. He is co-ordinator of the Vagabonds and a member of
Eumenean literary society. Grant, an English honors student from Blacksburg, Va., is the holder of a Dana scholarship. He is
a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity and Eumenean literary society. Hudgins is from Greenville, S.C. He is a
math major, holding a special actuarial scholarship given by the Prudential Insurance Co. He is treasurer of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity, has served on the Student Council, and is a member of the swimming team. Macris, from Wilmington, N.C.,
is president of Sigma Chi social fraternity. He was a sophomore representative to the Student Council. An English major, he
is in the German Club. Shue, president of this year’s student body, is from Staunton, Va. A pre-ministerial student, Shue
has been active in the Westminster Fellowship and in the YMCA. He majors in philosophy and psychology and is an
independent.

Stating his personal feelings on the matter, Shue said, “I'm not happy with the Court as we're considering to have
it next year. I would like for us to either improve it significantly or abolish it. However, I have not
been able to think of a good way to improve it. Consequently, I would seriously consider abolishing the Court.”

Any move to abolish the Court of Control would have to be proposed as an amendment to the Student Body
Constitution. This would require a 2/3 vote of the Student Council to get the proposal before the student body for
voting, and then the student body would have to pass the amendment by a 2/3 vote. If the Court is
continued next year, any changes by the Student Council would probably be put in the form of recommendations rather than
amendments to the Constitution.

The Student Council revealed that it will send two representatives to the faculty at its monthly meeting on Thursday to
present a series of five proposals concerning Sophomore Rush and pledge regulations. After a long discussion, the faculty agreed to
consider these proposals at a later meeting.

The Interfraternity Council presented to the faculty at its monthly meeting on Thursday a series of five proposals concerning Sophomore
Rush and pledge regulations. After a long discussion, the faculty agreed to consider these proposals at a later meeting.

The IFC's objections to Sophomore Rush, which were prepared by Jim Bootle in cooperation with the other representatives, included the
following considerations: First, the nature and location of Davidson will prevent freshmen under the Sophomore Rush system from having anything
but the most meager social life. It is agreed that the cultivation of social graces shouldn’t be the main consideration,
but the IFC feels that they have a definite place in the college experience.

Colombia Faces Leftist Threats, By LUIS QUINTERO, Richardson Scholar

By ZACH SMITH, Staff Writer

Editor’s note: This is the sixth in a series of articles written by Richardson Scholars on characteristics of their homelands,
or on their impressions of Davidson.

In the last 10 years, Communism has increased notably in Latin America, particularly in Brazil and Venezuela. In Colombia, the
communists have taken part in several socialistic revolutions, the most important being in 1948, during which a liberal leader was
murdered. Since 1948, communism has been working in Colombia under the name of the Socialist Party, but it is still
illegal. It has been proved that Fidel Castro took part in this revolution; this is one of the reasons why
the Colombian people cannot agree with Castro’s regime. Colombia was the first country to disapprove of the Cuban government’s actions
before the OAS this year.

Colombia is a good field for the growth of communism, since 45% of our people are illiterate and an even
larger percentage do not have adequate means of subsistence. The Colombian communist leaders are taking advantage of this situation in
order to create uneasiness toward the government and toward the United States. Mr. Nixon's trip last year to Latin America
proved that the general feeling of our people toward the U.S. is not very encouraging; this dissatisfaction is brought about
not only by communism but also by certain nationalisms. The American companies, which are important to our economic welfare, have
not been able to understand the actual problems of our countries. We need not only private companies but a better
policy on the part of the American government in the field of education, giving the opportunity to Latin American students
to come to the U.S. to study the technical fields that our development requires. The change of the American foreign
policy toward Latin America is an emergency; if this change does not take place right away, the effectiveness of the
communist propaganda will increase, and it is very likely that the Soviet Union will intervene in our affairs very soon.
It is a matter of fact that Latin America and Africa are tremendously wealthy in raw materials and may be
very good reserves for the future. The U.S. is urged to struggle for the development and growth of the nations
that make up those parts of the world.

The Board of Visitors will meet Friday. Approximately fifty men and women from throughout the East are expected for the
annual Board of Visitors meeting scheduled for November 11. The members of this group are all leading figures in business,
education, or religious circles. The Board of Visitors was founded in 1956 to arouse interest and promote participation in the
Davidson program. It has been extremely helpful in procuring top-notch speakers and has won for the college the support of
several foundations. The Board will begin activities next Friday with a 9:30 a.m. meeting, followed by tours around the campus
to observe the various phases of Davidson's educational system. These tours will end at 4:30 p.m. The morning meeting will
begin with progress reports by President Martin and by Mr. James J. Harris, chairman of the Board. These will be
followed by a discussion of the 11.5 million dollar development program adopted for the 1957-1967 period. Then new members will
be introduced and officers will be elected. Unfortunately, it is not possible to continue to operate with no pledges eating
at the houses second semester. Each fraternity turned in detailed budgets and each fraternity’s case as well as the whole
system was studied. Several housemothers were consulted on the interpretation of the figures and the effect of a smaller number
on their buying power. The result of this study was, as the proposal read, “Sophomore Rush will cost the fraternity
man $40 to $50 more per year. This includes only board and house upkeep.” Increased social expenses and dues will
probably raise the above figure somewhat more. This increase will work a great hardship on many fraternity men.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
