FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

A LOOK AT... By Bill Godwin

Just Biding His Time...

The man of leisure on campus these days is Coach Bill Dole. “We’re waiting now for one boy to make
up his mind and we are through recruiting,” he said.

12 Teams Here For Furman

Football Wildcats Bare

High Point Relays

Davidson Daves Defeats Abbey; Title Tomorrow

At this time, 15 (count 'em) high school seniors have agreed to play football here next fall under scholarship, and
the admissions committee has agreed on them. Needless to say, Dole’s returns are coming in far ahead of schedule. And,
already, we're projecting our hopes into 1961, when these boys will be on the varsity team with a rugged class
of 1963 and the polished flock of outstanding '62 men.

Besides the 15 scholarship holders, Dole can count on a dozen more freshmen. “There are four or five boys I
know about right now who will be playing football and not receiving aid. Next fall we'll pick up six or
seven more from the freshman class. We think that we have next year, all the way around, the best freshman
group we've had since the fall of '53.

“On scholarship we have some fine backs. We have one very good quarterback and hope to have two by this
fall. We have some interior linemen—three tackles, three guards and a center—that we think are all very good football players.”

The majority of these players had no trouble whatsoever fulfilling their admissions requirements.

From Florida To West Virginia...

Recruiting takes time. But Dole got his bags packed early and “had an opportunity to spend more time to visit
high schools, boys and their parents in a wider area.” That area covered West Virginia, Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia, Florida,
and Tennessee. Dole’s theater ranged from Beckley, W. Va., to West Palm Beach, Fla.

The Fourth Quarter Collapse...

Most of Davidson’s eight losses in 1959 were marked by “the fourth quarter collapse.” With only one good unit, the
Wildcats could not hold out for 60 minutes against teams which alternated two or three units. Injuries to team captain
Dave Warden and co-captain Charlie Benson plagued the Wildcats all season long.

“We will have no outstanding boys this fall,” said Dole. “But they are a group of boys who like to
block and tackle and play a lot of football.” Dole’s strategy is to play 26 or 27 boys each game.
This number would provide both offensive and defensive units plus “a few boys in between.” We hope there will be
an end to “the fourth quarter collapse.”

He Hopes It’s Contagious...

Several Furman football players are on the Paladin baseball team, which plays here tomorrow. Furman has been riddling its conference
foes and now holds an 11-6 record. This prompted grid coach Bob King to say this week, “I want them
(his footballers) to know what it is to win. That sort of thing is contagious.”

Four Misplaced Bean Balls...

Davidson's Dee Green, in a rare wild-pitching streak Tuesday, gave up 14 runs to Wake Forest in less than five
innings. In the process, he hit four Deacon batters. We would suggest that the righthander pick his targets more carefully
in the future. Student Council critics (including The Davidsonian) would be better ones.

The Davidson baseball team will meet a high-flying Furman University squad in a double-header here tomorrow afternoon, with the first
of the two 7-inning stints slated to begin at one-thirty. Then, next week, the ’Cats will entertain Pfeiffer in a
twinbill here on Tuesday.

Saturday afternoon the Davidson College track team will host eleven other teams in the annual High Point Relays to be
held here at Davidson, starting at 2 p.m.

As defending champion, the Wildcats will face East Carolina, High Point, Catawba, Washington & Lee, Lenoir Rhyne, Pembroke State, Guilford,
Atlantic Christian, and Pfeiffer, all of whom participated in this meet last year.

ROANOKE BEST?

In addition, Roanoke will field a team. Says Coach Heath Whittle of Roanoke, “They will probably field the best team
here on Saturday.” Davidson won this meet last year by a score of 52½ to 49 over East Carolina; High
Point was third with 34. The list of events will include five relays and six field events. And Coach Whittle
urges “everybody to get out and see this meet if possible.”

KIZER TAKES TWO

Last Tuesday the Davidson squad suffered its second setback of the season at the hands of V.P.I. by a score
of 65½ to 74½ in Blacksburg, Va. Speedster Ed Kizer raced to two victories, taking the 100 with a time
of 10.3 and the 220-yd. dash in 22.7. Davidson’s only other double victor was Mike Laughlin who took the hop-step-jump
with a distance of 42'10½". His broad jump of 21 feet 6½ inches was also good for a first place.

Captain John Huie, a consistent winner this season, vaulted 12 feet to cop the pole vault. David Gilmour raced home
in 4:32.1 to win in the mile.

BOGGS FILLS IN

In the absence of Captain Stuart Nickles, Sophomore Andy Boggs came through with a heave of 151 feet 5 inches
and a first in the javelin. To round out the Wildcat victories for the day, the mile relay team claimed
its event with a time of 3:27.

CONFERENCE NEXT

Saturday's High Point Relays will be the last outing for the Davidson tracksters before the Conference Meet which is to
be held May 13-14 at Williamsburg, Va. The Wildcats will be underdogs to highly favored Citadel and strong Furman in
this meet.

Kappa Sigs, ATO's Trail Sigma Chis

Intramural softball continued this week with only one team, the Sigma Chis, left unbeaten through Wednesday. The Kappa Sigs and
ATO’s, with 3-1 records each, are in second place.

Concerning Furman, Coach Tom Stevens described the Paladins as “a pretty good team that plays a lot of footballers.” This
may mean that the ’Cats can expect a lot of slugging.

Tennis Tourney Due For ’Cats Next Week

The Davidson College tennis team travels to Williamsburg, Virginia, next week for a match with William & Mary on Wednesday,
May 4. The Southern Conference Tennis Tournament will be held Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.

With about one-third of the softball schedule played and the tennis yet to start, the Phi Delts, with 841 points,
lead the second-place SAE’s, with 787 points, by 54 points in the race for the LF championship. The tennis scheduled
to start Tuesday, was delayed because of entrance and scheduling conflicts.

The KA’s, in third place with 676 points, trail the Phi Delts by 165 points and are virtually out of
the championship race. The intramural competition should be completed by about May 13. The championship trophy will probably be presented
in chapel on that day or on May 17, if possible.

In Monday's softball action, the Phi Gams spoiled the ATO’s record with a 21-3 trouncing, while the successful Sigma Chis
dropped the Pi Kapps 15-11. That same day, the SAE’s beat the KA’s 12-8, and the KA’s picked up a
close 20-19 win over the Pikas.

Tom Johnson, a methodical player, is one around whom Coach Tom Scott said, “Tom's the most methodical of any of
the other boys.” That must be his secret for success.: | “Well, I don’t have a secret. On Tuesday, the
Betas beat the Sigma Nus 16-12. The Kappa Sigs won their third game by nosing out the Phi Gams 10-9.
The ATO’s defeated the Pi Kapps 11-9, while the Sigma Chis won their fourth game, 10-5 over the SAE’s. The
KA’s knocked over the Phi Delts 23-12. Wednesday's action was rained out.

1969 Grid Schedule

Davidson's gridders will have an abbreviated eight-game schedule this fall. One team—VPI—has been added from 1959, but VMI and William
and Mary have been dropped. There are two open dates. “I would have liked a nine-game schedule,” Coach Bill Gale
said yesterday, “but the addition of VPI should make up for that.”

The 1960 schedule:
Sept. 17—Catawba-Charlotte
Sept. 24—Wofford-Spartanburg
Oct. 1—Citadel-Homecoming
Oct. 8—P. C. - Clinton
Oct. 15—Open
Oct. 22—Richmond-Davidson
Oct. 29—Open
Nov. 5—VPI - Blacksburg
Nov. 12—Lehigh-Bethlehem
Nov. 19—Furman-Davidson

IFC Standings:
Team | W | L | Pct.
Sigma Chi | 4 | 0 | 1.000
Kappa Sig | 3 | 1 | .750
ATO | 3 | 1 | .750
Sigma Nu | 2 | 1 | .667
SAE | 2 | 2 | .500
Phi Delt | 2 | 2 | .500
Phi Gam | 2 | 2 | .500
Pi Kapp | 2 | 2 | .500
Independent | 2 | 2 | .500
KA | 1 | 3 | .400
Beta | 1 | 3 | .250
SPE | 0 | 4 | .000
Pika | 0 | 4 | .000

T-Shirt, Tan Tag Wildcat Of Week

Ever wonder how to become a golf star? Davidson's Tom looks the part of a relaxed golfer, wearing a red
t-shirt, his face and arms tanned. “Well, I don’t have a secret here to provide an answer. I just relax
and swing,” said Tom. At the Charlotte Country Club last week, Tom stroked a two under par 68, the lowest
of the year for the team. This week he is named Wildcat of the Week.

CHARLOTTE EAGLE

Another feat Tom achieved was also at the Charlotte Country Club. He made an eagle on number two, a par
four hole, from 190 yards out, against UNC. Johnson, a senior, is from Lookout Mountain, Tennessee. A business administration major,
he has played golf three years here. Before coming to Davidson, he clubbed at the Baylor Prep School.

MONEY MAN FAN

Like all golfers, he has a pro to look up to. Without hesitation, he named Arnold Palmer, currently the biggest
money winner. Hoping to pick up some technique to improve his game, Tom went down to Augusta to watch Palmer
in the Master's Tournament.

By CARL RUST

Under normal conditions, Monday and Tuesday the Davidson team could have taken the Citadel match, but Spring Frolics took some
of the zip out of them. Verner Stanley, the number one man, has shot two under-par in his last two
matches. Verner has an average of 74, and Coach Scott stated, “Verner has a good chance to be the conference
medalist.”

George Washington, the defending champs, lost one man from last year’s club and is favored to take the conference title
again this year. The Wildcats finished second last year, only four strokes behind George Washington, and the 'Cats along with
the Citadel are expected to give George Washington a tough time.

Coach Tom Scott stated that any four of these teams could come out on top, and that it would probably
take an average of 73 or 74 to capture the conference title. Ed LeMaster is in fourth position and with
an average of 79, he proves to be a reliable fourth man. Last Saturday at Mid-Pines, the Wildcats lost to
the Citadel 17-10, and dropped a match to Wake Forest this Tuesday by the same score. However, at Wake Forest,
Verner Stanley beat Ronnie Thomas, last year’s Atlantic Coast Conference medalist, 3-0.

Scott concluded by saying, “Davidson’s outcome in the tournament depends on every man, and I think the team's chances are
very good.”

Coach Ted Keesler said, “I hope and think we will defeat W&M.” As for the conference tournament, Davidson has finished
second for the last three years. Last year the Wildcat netters finished second behind George Washington although being hard-pressed by
the Citadel. The team has lost matches to both of these teams earlier this spring. Although Coach Keesler has expressed
desire to meet them again, Davidson will probably fall to third this year, behind both George Washington and The Citadel.

Davidson lineup at Williamsburg will not change from what it has been most of the year. Doug Orr, Finley Lee,
Harry Broome, and Andy Sherrill will hold down the first four singles positions, with Jim Hamilton, Stephan Young, and Bobby
Snead fighting it out for positions five and six. In the doubles, the 'Cats will have Orr and Lee, Broome
and Sherrill, and Young and Snead. Coach Keesler feels that the players have improved much since the early spring and
although the team hasn’t had too much chance to compete this week, they will be out there battling.

In last Friday’s loss to UNC, only sophomore Stephan Young in the 6th position was able to win a set
as Davidson lost all six singles and the three doubles matches.

AT THE RESTAURANT BEST

Meet your friends at W. Independence at Wilkinson Blvd., Charlotte, while enjoying the best.

By CARL RUST

Davidson’s baseball team will host Furman in a double-header this Saturday before traveling to VPI on Friday and Saturday. The
Wildcats will be looking for strong performances from their opponents, who are noted mainly for a strong pitching staff. Their
pitchers must have been really strong last week, when the Paladins won four big games by downing VPI and VMI
in consecutive double-headers.

GREEN AND DAVES

As for Davidson’s plans for the games, Stevens said, “I'll pitch Dee Green in the first one, and maybe Nick
Daves in the second.” He also indicated that he will play about the same team that has been starting all
year. Last Friday, the ’Cats began the Spring Frolics weekend right by whipping Belmont Abbey, 9-2. Team hitting as a
whole was very good, and sophomore Nick Daves turned in an outstanding performance on the mound.

WILDCATS CLOBBERED

However, Tuesday's game was a different story as an outmanned Davidson team was clobbered by ACC powerhouse Wake Forest, 26-7,
in Winston-Salem. Coach Stevens commented, “We hit all right, but weak pitching and terrible fielding killed us.” It seems that
the ‘Cats were throwing the ball away, and to the wrong base most of the afternoon, as they committed seven
errors.

TWO HOME RUNS

Pitching was also weak, as Deacon batters raked three ‘Cat hurlers for 23 hits, including seven doubles, three triples, and
two home runs. However, the Wildcats’ hitting did provide a somewhat bright spot to the dismal affair, as they collected
ten hits off Bob Plemmons, Wake’s ace righthander who received all-ACC honors last season. Russ Cotton went two for three,
while Allen Millar and Tommy Harris contributed two hits apiece to the losing effort.

FROSH ONE AND FIVE

Tuesday night, the Freshmen traveled to Wingate Junior College, where they were defeated 14-3. Playing at night for the first
time this season, the ‘Kittens dropped their fifth game in six starts, and second in a row to Wingate, who
downed them last Thursday at Davidson, 5-3.
