Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1960

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Vote Shows Need For Exams

For the past three weeks THE DAVIDSONIAN has investigated the possible adoption of comprehensive examinations at Davidson. We have presented statements by officials from outstanding colleges and universities where comprehensives have become an essential part of the academic program. The success which other schools have had with comprehensives is enough in itself to merit Davidson's serious consideration. Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, dean of faculty, has said, “Comprehensive examinations can be good for Davidson College if properly administered.” We see no reason why Davidson cannot properly administer these examinations.

THE DAVIDSONIAN received a vote of confidence concerning the administering of comprehensives from a majority of the college departmental heads last week. This enthusiasm on the part of the faculty will help to ensure the proper administering of comprehensives if the examinations are adopted at Davidson.

We feel that the results of the student body poll on comprehensive examinations (see page one) are evidence that Davidson needs to adopt the program. By almost a 2-to-1 majority the student body voted against the adoption of the comprehensives. The results of the poll indicate that students under our present academic program feel unprepared, or are too lazy to prepare (“I don’t want to get shot out of the saddle my senior year”) to be tested on their two years' work in their major subject.

When students are unable to recall and relate the majority of their academic work in their major subject there is a definite weakness in the academic system. Certainly one goal of an academic institution is for students to depart upon graduation with a satisfactory understanding of their courses of study. But it is evident that a student does not have a satisfactory understanding of his course of study if he cannot recall or relate the majority of the material in his major subject.

If comprehensives are adopted they can help relieve the academic deficiency of Davidson College and raise academic standards by requiring more of her students. Then graduates will leave Davidson with a more complete education.

—R. L. M.

It's Working After All

After viewing the new chapel attitude with a somewhat jaundiced eye for the past three weeks, we're ready to back down—it is working after all. Student cooperation with the faculty’s “get tough” policy on chapel conduct has been the key factor in better chapels this fall. The Davidson gentleman is a redoubtable master when it comes to the subtle disruption of an auditorium—assembly. He could have made it extremely difficult for the faculty to get tough with any effectiveness.

We also commend the planning committees for producing more interesting chapels. Henry Shue and the Student Council have done an outstanding job so far. Dr. Martin is scheduled to take on the student body in another question-answer session during the Monday assembly. We feel that this type of program is one of the most valuable innovations in the chapel format in recent years. Perhaps it could be extended to include question periods with other members of the faculty and administration, and with leaders of student organizations. We would make one suggestion for the more effective use of this type of program: the “man on the spot” should make his answers shorter, more concise and to-the-point, so that more questions can be asked.

The Thursday chapel for religious programs has the only weak point in the series of assemblies. With the exception of Sewanee President McCrady’s talk last week, none of these programs has been particularly inspiring. Students rather sarcastically refer to it as “Holy Day.” Student Body President Henry Shue has asked for ideas for the student assembly programs. If we want to continue to make chapel a rewarding experience instead of an ordeal, we should do all we can to help him out.

The Organization Man

Last Wednesday afternoon Dave Clark and Malcolm Seawell, two of North Carolina’s top political figures, showed up in the Union for a coffee-discussion and a little politicking among the college set. The trouble was, the college set failed to show. Ed Johnston, the Union's Organization Man in charge of getting top newsmakers to the campus and making them glad they came, was stuck with the congressional candidate, the ex-Attorney General, and seven students who had wandered in from the snack bar.

Johnston, whirring into action, suggested that the pair go on a tour of the campus and meet the administration. In the meantime, he hustled off to the dormitories and began to round up the few students who weren't on the flickerball fields or in the library. Back at the Union 20 minutes later, Johnston had corralled a dozen puzzled students, several faculty members, and a few townspeople. Dave Clark made his pitch and left, a little disappointed at the turnout, but promising to help secure another big name for Johnston’s pre-election efforts to crack Davidson’s strange apathy where political matters are involved.

Johnston deserves a big vote of appreciation for his accomplishments as chairman of the Union's Roundtable Committee. He failed to get Nixon to the campus, scored a very near miss with Adlai Stevenson, but managed to lure Mrs. Joe P. Kennedy and Robert Gavin for brief speaking stints. He still has high hopes of securing Sam Rayburn, Jimmy Byrnes and Richard Russell before the election, and Charles Raper Jonas afterwards. It wasn’t Johnston’s fault that the Clark-Seawell discussion was a flop—it was dropped into his lap the day before and no one would cooperate with publicity. But Ed Johnston isn’t a man easily discouraged, and if he has anything to say about it, Rayburn and Byrnes and Russell will all be here, even if they do have to speak to a captive audience. We admire his persistence.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF B. Millner
BUSINESS MANAGER Charlie Rowe
Assistant Editor Tom Colvin
Assignments Editor Russ Showalter
Associate Editors Ervin Duggan
Copy Editor Jack Hand
Bob Moore
Photographer Gene Wells
Managing Editors David Jordan
Advertising Manager Olin Nisbet
Don Saunders
Circulation Manager Butler Bennett
Sports Editor Bill Godwin
Assistant Bus. Manager Gene Adcock
Feature Editor Leonard Richardson

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

By BILL ARMSTRONG
Davidsonian Feature Writer

About Tuesday of every week, I find myself faced with the perplexing problem of the approaching weekend. I discovered early in my college life that Davidson College is no place to spend a weekend. To remain on campus is pure folly and, I might add, quite dangerous. During my freshman year, one boy went completely berserk after spending two weekends on campus. He began talking to himself and later was discovered hitting his head against trees, just to hear the sound. Too much quietness affects people in strange ways.

TYPICALLY ‘BLIND’

But I am getting off the subject. I was telling you about my weekends. Fate has, for some unknown reason, taken me in hand and bestowed upon me the dubious honor of being looked upon as a typical blind date. For some unknown reason, people are drawn to me when they have the need of a sucker for a blind date. Because of this, I have become in the past few years, somewhat wary of the glowing, or not so glowing, phrases used to describe these hidden and unknown beauties. There are two phrases that will strike terror in the stoutest of blind-date hearts: “She has a wonderful personality,” and “All the girls like her.” What terrible things to say about any girl.

PERSONALITY?

First of all, have you ever seen a good looking girl who had a wonderful personality? Let's face it, the good looking girls don’t have to have wonderful personalities. With everything else, who's going to notice a little thing like personality? What good will it do if she can carry on a brilliant conversation when you can't even stand to look at her?

Now let us turn to, “All the girls like her.” If you have a girl who once gave you the shaft, then this is the best way in the world to get back at her. Once it gets around that all the girls like a girl, then she is branded for life. This girl is lost. She doesn't stand a chance. She doesn’t even have a wonderful personality. And to top it all off, she offers no competition to the other girls, this is why they can afford to like her.ROOMMATES

Also beware of roommates. It is very seldom that two attractive people room together in college. After all, look at your roommate—see what I mean? So when a friend asks you to date his girl’s roommate, beware! Girls are very cagey in describing their roommates. The most popular phrase is, “I just love my roommate, she’s really crazy!” This can mean anything. The girl may be an expert in judo, or she may smoke cigars; you never can tell, but nevertheless, beware!

This brings us up to the really glowing phrases. Occasionally a boy will describe a prospective date as, “The best looking girl I've ever seen.” I am always a bit suspicious of this type. If this girl is so beautiful, why isn't he dating her? Why ask me?

TOO LATE

I never get the answer until it is too late. Somewhere in between the time that he last saw this girl and the time that I date her, some kind of metamorphosis takes place. He later explains that she seems to have “put on a little weight.” This means the girl looks like she is going into hibernation. So beware of the “friend” who would help you out during the weekend. Your best bet is a girl with no personality and one whom the girls all hate. But until you find her, welcome to the ranks.

The Guest

DR. ERNEST PATTERSON

Editor's Note: Dr. Ernest Patterson is professor of Economics at Davidson. Below he discusses the 1960 Presidential election.

There is considerable evidence that the “undecided” vote in the current Presidential election is presently large. This is not surprising for the independent voter is presented with few real differences. The two Presidential candidates are almost identical in age, experience, intelligence, etc. Both possess in almost equal amounts the limitations and virtues of contemporary middle-class Americans. Both are religious, but not so deeply that it has any real influence on their behavior. Both would rather be President than right. The vice-presidential candidates are nonentities, almost complete ciphers. One cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear, and the boys on Madison Avenue, who often convince the American public that a sow's ear is really a silk purse, are not even trying to do anything with the vice-presidential material which the political parties turned over to them.

When one turns to the issues, the situation is the same. In the area of foreign policy Kennedy correctly says that our foreign policy is bankrupt, a complete failure, but all he offers is to do better that which has been done in the past, and it is difficult to be enthusiastic about bigger and better failures. This is the most important issue of the campaign. The American people need to be told, among other things, that we must negotiate on disarmament, not mere reduction of armaments, with the Russians as equals, even though this will be difficult and trying; that we must meet the “revolution of expectations” that is occurring in Africa, Asia, and Latin America with assistance and policies that are not based on anti-communism and maintaining United States private investments intact; that we must cease refusing to recognize the de facto government of China and preventing it from taking its rightful place in the councils of the world. This requires a wise and courageous leadership for which neither candidate has the ability or inclination.

On the domestic scene there is again almost no difference. No matter which candidate is elected, the legal and institutional framework in which labor-management relations operate will be little changed; the farm program will continue inadequate from both the farmers’ and the consumers’ standpoint; the aged will get some medical benefits, again far short of adequate; taxes and government expenditures will remain high, and likely increase. It is only in connection with using fiscal policy to solve the problems of unemployment, recession, and economic growth that there is any noticeable difference, and even here the distinction is nebulous and uncertain. Both parties will use fiscal policy to prevent a “recession” from becoming a “depression.” But the record and philosophy of the Republicans indicate that they will use it grudgingly and petulantly, and only as a last resort, while the record and philosophy of the Democrats show that they are likely to take the necessary action with enthusiasm and amiability, and before being forced to do so by the course of events. With our economic system so interdependent and delicately balanced, this slight difference—the uncertainty lies in the presence of conservative Southern Democrats in Congress, who, in 1960, voted with the Republicans on over one-half of the important issues—might spell the difference between prosperity and depression. So on the basis of this tenuous distinction, I am inclined to vote for Mr. Kennedy, but the inclination is so weak, and the dissatisfaction and disgust so strong, I may be led to write in Norman Thomas’ name.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Wallenburg Knocks Spiritual Sterility; Fraternity Men Clarify Pledge Proposal

Dear Editor:

Quite possibly the strangest situation ever to arise in the affairs of this college during the past few years was the misbehavior in Chapel and Vespers which reached a peak last year and which has since subsided. It was strange because, to my knowledge, there never appeared the usual masses of protesting letters-to-the-editor, never did the standard panel discussion group arise. Instead, there were only muted discussions among the students and determined statements from the trustees and administration. Why was it that a controversy so widespread, judging from the disturbances in chapel, found so little public expression?

First, it was not because of expected retaliation from the college. Indeed, the college once asked for an expression of opinion contrary to its own views, but could find no one willing to make such expression. This was because there was no one willing to admit that the only reason for the misbehavior was that it was a fad, just as black umbrellas are. Indeed, the reasons for the misconduct were never discussed, and it was assumed that the fault lay in the programs presented. Now that the problem has been solved by placating the student body with a few extra cuts, perhaps the true question can be discussed more intelligently. Does this college have the right to force students to attend Chapel and Vespers, even if this conflicts with the students’ moral ideals? This is nothing more or less than the question of religious toleration which has always been a problem, in all ages. Does a society, any society, have the right to dictate to its citizens their moral values? Can a Hitler suddenly decree that murder and rape and pillage are the measures by which a man can be judged? The traditional view in the United States is that he cannot. Other possible viewpoints are beyond the scope of this letter.

Thus, the only complicating factor in this case is that a student enters this college of his own free will, and that he thereby supposedly gives up all right to protest against Chapel and Vespers. Indeed, the whole argument for required services rests on this point. When a student goes to college, his aim is supposedly to receive an education and to develop his powers of reasoning. Thus it is that some students form an honest objection to Christianity after arriving at college and being exposed to new ideas. Is it right for this college to demand that its students not respond to any of the ideas presented them? At present the only course open to a person who comes to disagree with Christianity is to leave Davidson. If this is to be the policy of Davidson College, then it is my opinion that every entering freshman should be informed of it, if only for honesty’s sake. If Davidson is to be a school of mental eunuchs and religious hypocrites, as it is today, then of course the present state may be allowed to stand.

John G. Wallenburg

Dear Editor:

We would like to clarify a statement you made in your editorial “Put Up or Shut Up” in the October 7, 1960 DAVIDSONIAN. The original pledge program proposal was originated and presented to the IFC by the three of us, whose names are signed below, and not by the Sigma Nu Fraternity. This proposal was not presented to Sigma Nu before the time that it was presented to all the fraternities. Sigma Nu, along with two other fraternities, voted approval of the original program when it was presented but in no way sponsored it originally.

Hansford Epes
Frank Mansell
Bob Phillips