‘CATS HIT BLUE HOSE AT CLINTON (See Page Four)

VOL. XLIX

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1960

THE VAGABONDS’ two performances of Giraudoux’s “The Mad Woman of Chaillot” were played to enthusiastic audiences. The first act took place in the Union Ballroom, which was converted into a French Cafe. Charles Cornwell played the headwaiter. Charles Cornwell is the villainous businessman, and Gene Neely played the headwaiter.

Vagabonds To Present “St. Joan” This Week

Spurred by their initial success, “The Mad Woman of Chaillot,” the Vagabonds are planning their second performance, “St. Joan” by G. B. Shaw for next Wednesday at 8:15. Following the precedent set in their first play, the new drama group will disregard traditional stage settings, and give the play on the front steps of Chambers.

The cast of “St. Joan” demonstrates the excellent student-faculty-community co-operation achieved by the Vagabonds. It includes President D. G. Martin, Dean F. W. Johnston, and five other members of the faculty. Mrs. D. G. Martin plays the leading role. By staging the play on the front steps of Chambers, the Vagabonds hope to attain the stately and cold atmosphere of a castle, much as the waiters created the atmosphere of a French cafe in the “Mad Woman of Chaillot.” Lighting, and the many scene changes are two problems created by the ‘stage,’ but they are being worked out.

The Vagabonds plan to follow “St. Joan” with “J. B.” by Archibald MacLeish. A controversial play about men, “J. B.” will tie in with the visit of MacLeish on the Reynolds Lecture Series. It is tentatively planned for October 26.

The cast of “Saint Joan” is:
Poulengey — Pat Douglas;
Steward — Jerry Hopkins;
Baudricourt — Dr. Staples;
Archbishop — Dean F. W. Johnston;
Tremoville — John Wallenburg;
Page — Richard Masline;
Gilles de Rais — Dr. J. D. Kelton;
La Hire — Dudley Salley;
Dauphine — Walter Bost;
Dunois — Algie Pruitt;
J. B. — Buddy Brauch or Fred Schoen;
Sarah — Mrs. Marrotte;
David — Tom Wright;
Jonathan — Tim Powell;
First Messenger — Fred Gohlke;
Second Messenger — Fred Schoen or Bill Pruitt;
Zophar — Bill Hagen;
Eliphaz — Butch LeDoyen;
Bildad — Tim Ray;
Girl — Nancy Copeland;
Women — Nancy Copeland and Mrs. S. D. Maloney.

Crowded Quarters Cause Office Shift

The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid moved this week to rooms immediately north of the lobby of Chambers Building. The shift was made because of the need for more space for handling admissions. Mr. H. E. White, Associate Director of Admissions and Director of Financial Aid, said that the move was due primarily to the great increase in the number of applications in recent years and the need for more room resulting from this. The new office has much more waiting and filing room in a more spacious and comfortable atmosphere, so that admissions may be handled separately.

Dean White is no longer responsible for the absence records which remain under the Office of the Dean of Students. Professor W. W. Burley of the Guidance Department is now in charge of the absence records in the Dean of Students’ Office. Absence records may be inspected between 10:00 and 10:50 a.m. on Wednesdays and Fridays, and on Thursday from 2:00 to 3:00 p.m.

Trip To Conference

Professor J. T. Drake, Chairman of the Debate Committee, and Professor P. F. Elliott are planning to take some members of the debate team to a debate conference to be held at the University of Virginia on October 14th. The collegiate debate topic for the year is as follows: Resolved: “That the United States Should Adopt a Compulsory Health Insurance Program for all its Citizens.” This will be discussed by the teams who attend the conference.

THE REAL BATTLE: Chapeaux

The seventy-year-old grandmother smiled dazzlingly and tugged the jacket of her Coco Chanel suit, “You reporters, always asking about religion. Of course, I’m glad to answer any questions about religion, because I think religion is such a wonderful force, just grand.

“My children always showed such an interest in religion. You know, Holy Thursday, Good Friday, the Crucifixion, that sort of thing.

“Why, I remember spending Easter at Palm Beach — or was it Acapulco? Maybe it was Biarritz. Well, anyway, they were always bringing up something about religion. So darling.”

Her expression became grave. “Have you got anything about the war? I lost my eldest son, you know. AND a son-in-law! Terribly depressing. Well, Jack knows the tears, the loneliness, the heartbreaking — can you get all this down? — the heartbreaking loneliness when a mother loses her son and a young bride loses her husband.”

She was silent for a moment. “Excuse me. Strike out ‘husband’ and put ‘bridegroom,’ okay? So I know he won’t lead us into war.”

She smiled brightly and toyed with her pearls. “Money? Well, we always taught Jack to be thrifty. We’d always urge him to save his little weekly allowance, or at least to spend it wisely. ‘Do something USEFUL with your allowance,’ I’d tell Jack. ‘Start a foundation or something.’

“I remember on one of his earlier trips abroad, Jack said to me, ‘Mother, next time let’s go cabin class with all the lower-class scum.’”

She leaned forward. “He was always thrifty like that,” she breathed. “Religion is such a wonderful force, just grand. My children always—”

Just then the Democratic party lady from Charlotte, a big woman with a black hat and a cigar, motioned frantically. The interview was over.

In an anteroom of the Coliseum, the tall, slender woman answered our questions. “Heavens, no! Why I make most of my own things, anyway. I’m not able to fly to Paris for every showing, like some filthy rich people I know.

“Oh, don’t get me wrong. I’m not criticizing anybody. Like Dick says, if you can’t say something NICE about people, just don’t say anything at all.”

From the packed hall, the speaker’s voice could be heard: “It’s not HIS money he’ll be spending! It’s YOUR money!” A great roar shook the Coliseum.

“No, we scarcely know them. They’re high society, and they don’t associate much with regular people like Dick and me. We’re just normal, clean-living Americans, so we don’t get invited to any of those fancy shindigs.

“We just stay at home and romp with our little dog Checkers.” She fingered the campaign button on her collar.

“Servants? Not a one. I love housework. I scrub and cook and iron and slave and work my fingers to the bone and somehow find time to fulfill all my official duties.

“I’m not able to hire servants like some nasty little society wives I know.

“Please don’t think I’m criticizing. I’d never criticize anybody. Like Dick says, if you can’t —”

Another loud roar muffled her words. We asked her about civil rights.

Fraternities Repudiate Proposed Pledge Plan

IFC Presents Revision For Fraternity Study

By BOB MOORE
Davidsonian Associate Editor

(SAM SPENCER PENS GUEST COLUMN See Page Three)

At its Monday night meeting, the IFC discussed the changes of the proposal for more than two hours. The weekly five-hour time limit that any fraternity may require of a pledge, the prohibition of required stud running, forced eating, and calisthenics, and required pledge attendance at the intramural athletic events were the major topics of debate. The revised proposal passed the council by more than a two-thirds majority and was returned to the fraternities to see which parts of the proposal meet the unanimous consent of the fraternities.

The first revision of the IFC pledge training regulations reads as follows:
1. Pledges shall not be treated in any manner not in keeping with the level of maturity supposedly attained by any college student. This shall be taken to prohibit not only actual hazing and harassment of pledges, but also such practices as organized stud running; forced eating; calisthenics within one hour of meals; and any other activities which might be considered demeaning or harmful.

Council Discusses Plans For Symposium, ‘62 Rush

The Student Council convened Monday night to discuss two long-range topics sponsored by the Student Council. One of these is a symposium which will be held at Davidson, similar to the one which was held last year at the University of North Carolina. The program will feature addresses, panels, and seminars. Student Council President Henry Shue expressed enthusiasm about the project, although it is not likely to occur within the next year and a half.

HAZING POLICY

At Monday’s meeting, the Council formed an unwritten policy regarding the Interfraternity Council and hazing. President Shue said that if the Student Council receives any complaints about hazing, it will take appropriate action.ent Council and the IFC can agree on a policy prohibiting hazing, the Student Council is willing to make this joint policy a part of the Honor Code. If this goes into effect, every student will be honor-bound to report any act of hazing to the Honor Court.

(Continued On Page Six)

I never answer political questions. But Dick always says law alone can’t solve the problem. The white people feel that socialism attend this Conference. Part of the day will be devoted to other subjects related to this topic.

Guess; Warwick — Dr. E. F. Patterson; Chaplain — Dr. G. L. Abernethy; Inquisitor — Dr. Staples; d'Estivet — David Dillard; de Courcelles — Dudley Salley; VAvenu — Pres. D. G. Martin; Executioner — John Boyd; English soldier — Pat Douglas; Gentleman of 1920 — Roger Durham.

The team is making plans to attend the Annual Novice Tournament to be held at Wake Forest on October 28 and 29th. The schedule has not been made out for the year, but the team is planning to participate in six or seven tournaments which are held annually in the Southeast.

The Cast of “J. B.” will be: Mr. Zuss — Danny McRight; Nickles — Buddy Brauch or Bill Dixon, J. B. Doss, Pat Freeny, Skip Jones, Phil Lewis, H. R. Pancost, T. H. Poston, Bill Pridgen, John Rankin, Richard Masline, Erwin Spainhour, and D. Wilkerson. These students will participate in debate discussions held twice a week here on campus.

Comprehensives Poll Shows Mixed Feeling

This week, THE DAVIDSONIAN conducted a poll of major department heads and the top students of the senior class to obtain their opinions of comprehensive examinations at Davidson. In the science departments, Dr. Puckett and Dr. Pietenpol both favored comprehensives for majors in their departments.

Scrip ‘n’ Pranks Adopts New Style

The first issue of ‘Scrips ‘n’ Pranks will appear on October 31, with the following editions to be published in January and April. Because of early press deadlines and a lack of acceptable material, there will be no Christmas issue.

Faculty Limits 5-Week Grades To Freshmen

The faculty voted Tuesday to eliminate the six weeks grading report previously sent to all upperclassmen during the fall semester of each year. Freshmen will still receive a grade progress report after the first five weeks. In addition, freshmen will also receive a grade progress report during the second semester, contrary to previous procedure. Upperclassmen, as usual, will not receive grades at this time.

Council Oversight Postpones Run-Off

A failure of the Student Council to place ballot boxes in the halls outside Chambers Auditorium last Monday forced a rescheduling of the Honor Court run-off. Junior class members D. G. Martin, Bob Stone, and Stephan Young were still in contention for the vacant post when a run-off was set for yesterday after chapel. The final ballot is expected to be made on Monday between the two top candidates. There was reason to believe that the ballot boxes which did finally appear in Chambers Monday afternoon were stuffed. Eleven votes for the same man were found folded together in the box.

Defeated was a recommendation by the Faculty Committee on Scheduling to move the time of first period class each day from 8:20 to 8:00 a.m. This proposal, had it gone into effect, would have lengthened chapel and assembly periods and would have changed the times of other morning periods. Also defeated was a proposal to shorten this semester by two days so that the examination period during the second semester would not be so congested as it was last spring.

A committee was appointed to coordinate all preparations for Sophomore Rush. The new form of rushing will necessitate many extensive changes in the affairs of such organizations as the IFC, the College Union, and the YMCA. The coordinating committee will work to prevent the duplication of preparatory tasks by several organizations.

The Council also took two steps which are of particular interest and importance to the individual student. A recommendation was sent to the faculty suggesting that a student who attends church off-campus on Sunday nights be given vespers credit.

REQUEST PRIVILEGES

The Council drafted a petition asking that girls from Woman's College and Queens be given “overnight privileges” for the Homecoming Dance weekend. This petition has already been presented to Dean Bailey and will be sent to the deans of the girls’ schools.

Shue pointed out that last week's issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN did not include a bulletin on the Student Council's meeting of September 26. At this meeting, the Council took three particularly significant steps. These are: a proposed amendment to the Student Body Constitution, and the coordination of all proposals. The group proposed that the Honor Court's quorum consist of nine members. This amendment will be voted upon by the student body in assembly next Thursday.

COURT OF CONTROL

The first of three committees appointed by Shue will have the task of evaluating the Court of Control. This committee will make recommendations regarding the Court's future status. The second committee will begin the process of a complete revision of the Student Body Constitution. It is expected that this committee will use as a reference source the constitutional revision which was completed in 1958-59. Shue expressed the hope that this committee will be able to eliminate (Continued On Page Six)

is expressed after meals (with the provision that anyone excused from PT for medical reasons will be excused from calisthenics); and any similar activities which the IFC may prohibit as the situation may arise. Fraternities will be expected also to abide by the rules of their national organizations in this matter.

2. There will be a limit of five hours per week on the time any fraternity may require of a pledge. This limit will not include time spent on any formal projects such as work at Barium Springs, at the orthopedic hospital, Homecoming Decorations, or Skit Night. The limit will include pledge meetings and count-offs or call-downs, but will not include required periods for academic study. Also, since it is felt that pledges will naturally wish and be expected to visit brothers in their rooms, this time will not be included under the limit so long as the matter of choosing the actual times for visitation is left to the discretion of the pledge. Further, no time may be required between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 1:00 p.m. the next day.

3. Freshmen should be encouraged to participate in extra-curricular activities, though they cannot be required to do so. (Under this, for example, pledges may not be required to attend intramural athletic events.) When conflicts in time arise between fraternity duties and the need for study or participation in extra-curricular activities, the latter shall take precedence over pledge duties.

4. IFC Greek Week regulations will be formulated at a later date, and will be in keeping with the spirit of the above regulations. All Greek Week programs will be approved by the IFC. Every effort will be made to schedule Greek Week for the first week in the second semester.

Viking States’ Battle Ancient, But Friendly

By RICHARD DAWIDS
Richardson Scholar

Editor's Note: This is the third in a series of articles written by the Richardson Scholars on their homelands, or on their impressions of Davidson.

During my stay here in the United States of America, I often have been asked questions about the customs and characteristics of Scandinavian countries. A girl from Canada asked me in New York if Denmark wasn’t the capital of Sweden. I was, of course, deeply shocked about her ignorance, but I could not answer her in any other way than by giving her a little course in the geography of my part of the world.

A fact that many foreigners do not know is that Swedes and Danes occasionally have a quarrel because of their history. Several wars have been fought between the two Viking states. The last one, about which you can read in history books, took place in 1721. It was the last time since the Danes tried to take back the land that the Swedes had conquered in 1658. Today the Danes still bear malice to the Swedes, and I think you can say the opposite also.

Now the Danes have a chance to get revenge for the defeats in the wars about 250 years ago. Many proposals have been used. The best known one is the “rulning.” It results in the poor Swede being unable to find his trousers or money the next morning. (Some people might call it robbery, but “war” is “war.”) Many used to entertain the last boat has left for Sweden.