PAGE FOUR

Union Desk Offers Student Blue Book

The Blue Book, a student directory printed by the Union Publications Committee, will be available to students for a limited time at the Union Desk. The committee has prepared about 1,000 copies of the directory, and they are being made available to the student body at the publication cost of 35 cents; and to the faculty and other interested parties at the cost of one dollar.

This directory is the only information source on campus which lists under one cover the student, his class, fraternity, post office box, room number, and home address. The directory also contains a list of telephone numbers for the faculty, for the administration, and for nearby girls' schools. The committee hopes that more student interest will be shown in this phase of the Union’s program so that future projects of this type can obtain necessary support. At present, only about 200 copies have been sold at the Union. The committee plans to dispose of the additional copies at nearby girls' schools.

Rev. Conyers, ‘43, Conducts Vespers

The Vespers speaker for this Sunday is the Rev. W. Priestley Conyers, III. Rev. Conyers is a Davidson graduate of the class of '43. He attended Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia, where he is now Assistant to the President.

She responded cheerfully to the photographers’ requests for more pictures but apologized for her dry lips. She girlishly admitted that she had been eating salted pumpkin seeds on the trip down.

Just outside of Davidson, Joni, her manager, her accompanist, and pilot made the two-hour trip from New York in a plane she had recently purchased. “Isn't it pretty?” she said. Sitting up in her seat, she noticed the college men in white socks, sport shirts, and sunglasses lifting high their cans of malt. She was told that her coming was the occasion for such excitement. She sat back in her seat and said seriously, “I hate to disappoint you, but we don’t drink.”

Joni Talks Of Planes, Hattie’s, Co-Education
BY CHARLIE ROSE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

A small private plane carrying Joni James landed at the peaceful Salisbury Municipal Airport late last Friday afternoon and sparked a mild rustle of curiosity among the handful of bystanders. A vivacious Joni quickly began easy conversation with a newspaper reporter, photographers, and those who came to take her to Davidson.

Rev. Conyers has held pastorates at Morehead City and Belmont, N. C. He served as an infantry officer during World War II. In accordance with the Religious Life Committee ruling on Vesper attendance, Juniors will be excused from Vespers this Sunday.

Wildcat Club (Continued From Page One)

Following a quick introduction to the campus and a brief rehearsal in Chambers, Joni accepted the kind invitation of the Union’s Mr. George to a southern fried chicken supper. While eating, she made Mr. George tell her in detail the difference between southern fried chicken and “the kind we get up north.” She folded her fur coat tightly about her; long, black hair fell over her shoulders, and a thoughtful smile spread over her face. “No girls,” she said presently. “I don’t know whether I'm going to like this or not.” But she was quickly assured that damsels of the finest sort would comprise almost half of her audience.

Economics Group Schedules Forum

Paul A. Johnston, Director of the Department of Administration, State of North Carolina, will speak to an open meeting of the Business-Economics Club at 7:30 p.m., Monday, February 22, in the College Union Ballroom. Mr. Johnston is a graduate of the University of North Carolina Law School, where he edited The U. N. C. Law Review. Called to Raleigh first as Administrative Assistant to Governor Hodges, he later became the first director of the newly formed Department of Administration. After his talk, Mr. Johnston will answer questions from the floor about state government, politics, and fiscal policy. All interested persons are invited to the meeting.

At 7:30 Joni James sang to a packed Chambers Auditorium, and when she departed late that night, she left behind the memories that were to add greatly to one of Davidson's finest dance weekends.

INTERVIEWS

February 22: American Discount Co.
February 23: Aetna Casualty Co.
Dow Chemical Co.
February 26: Fund Ins. Co.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

Kannapolis’ Leading Theatres

GEM
Today and Saturday
“Journey To The Center of the Earth”
Pat Boone—James Mason

Starts Sat. Nite Also Mon. thru Sat.
“THE GAZEBO”
Glenn Ford
Debby Reynolds

SWANEE
Today and Saturday
“WARRIOR AND THE SLAVE GIRL” in Color

Let Us Freshen the Impression of All Your Clothes. Bring Your Formals and Tux Shirts So As To Be Ready for the Next Function.

Jackson Cleaners
Main Street — Davidson

Saturday Late Show
“BLOOD AND STEEL”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will have open house for the student body after vespers Sunday night:
Brown
Kelton
Ratliff
Currie
Labban
Scott
Daggy
Lilly
Staples
Evans
Lloyd
Watts
Fleming
Lumsden
Whittle
French
Marrotte
Griffin
McCutchan

Dr. Richards Faces Student Questioning In WF Meeting

Dr. J. McDowell Richards Wednesday night faced a roomful of students at a meeting sponsored by the Westminster Fellowship. During the first twenty minutes, Dr. Richards presented what he called “a preface to discussion.” This preface he divided into two sections. The first was a presentation of the basic tenets of the Lowry and Harvard Report on General Education (1945). According to this report, the purpose of education should be to “liberate a man from ignorance and prejudice.” A college should teach a man to: 1.) think effectively, 2.) communicate thoughts and receive thoughts from others, 3.) make relevant judgments, and 4.) discriminate among values. The Harvard Committee also felt that there should be a unifying idea around every college. While unable to definitely pick what this idea should be, the Harvard Report rejected Christianity as the unifying principle.

In terms of Davidson, Dr. Richards maintained that the principles on which the school was founded affirmed: 1.) the reality of God as revealed in Christ, 2.) the reality of moral law, i.e. that there is a definite distinction between right and wrong, 3.) the value of the redemptive purpose of God. He continued by discussing the place of freedom on a Christian campus. “Commitment is not fatal to freedom. Instead, belief is a part of the good life. A free choice comes from belief and ultimately from principle. A measure of belief is necessary to maintain an open mind.” His introductory remarks concluded, Dr. Richards proceeded to open the floor for discussion.

Q. How is Davidson striving towards its Christian ideals?
A. It is working for its ideals through the composition of the faculty. These are all fine Christian men. Moreover, the place of worship on the campus is important.

Q. These things don’t reflect ideals. They are simply routine matters.
A. I don’t look on these things as being routine.

Q. Regarding after-dance parties and bad behavior in vespers, the administration seems more concerned about the reputation of the college than any moral considerations.
A. I knowthe men in the administration and know that they are very concerned about the moral implications of these activities.

Q. Aren't vespers a denial of student freedom?
A. No, they aren't. This is a method of exposure to Christianity.

Q. Granted that Bible is merely exposure, but since vespers is a worship experience, how can you justify calling this simply exposure?
A. Well, I guess the word exposure was wrong. We don’t force one to believe in Christianity, do we?

Q. In what way is a faculty member free?
A. He does not have the freedom to teach what he wants. However, he does have the freedom to think as he wishes and the freedom to leave.

Q. In light of the fact that 250 students, the DAVIDSONIAN, and a significant segment of the faculty requested that a committee be formed to study the race question, do you feel that the Trustees' failure to act is an indication of ethical and intellectual health?
A. Let it be understood that I do not intend to criticize my fellow trustees. I think not. This is not a sign of health, but of sickness.

Q. In the light of this discussion, the worth of eminent practicality has certainly been shown: regarding the recognition of the preference of ROTC over the arts on the required curriculum, Bible over philosophy, vespers over complete freedom, athletics over academics, segregation over integration. Where then is the ideal?
A. Davidson, in not being a totalitarian system which could legislate given opinion and established ideal, is left with the paradox of the democratic state: that the ideal must be one of evolvement, and we must resign ourselves to the faith that the ideal will come about gradually.

Johnston Named To Centennial Board

North Carolina Governor Luther Hodges recently appointed Dean Frontis Johnston a member of the Confederate Centennial Commission which will have charge of the work of the Civil War Centennial in this state. When asked about the work of the Commission, Dr. Johnston commented, “So far, we have had only one meeting in which officers and other members of the executive committee were elected. Mr. Hugh Dortch of Goldsboro, N. C., was elected Chairman of the committee.” He went on to say, “The Centennial has not yet become of state-wide importance, but the Commission is going to try to make it well-known throughout the state.” Other members of the Commission include such authors and educators as Professor Hugh Lefler, University of North Carolina; Burke Davis, author; and Dr. Robert H. Woody of Duke. Dr. Johnston's popular course in the Civil War period is not being given this year due to his assumption of new duties as Dean of the Faculty. It will be offered next year according to present plans.

Students Offered Reading Courses

As during the past several semesters, the Student Counseling Office will again offer a Developmental Reading Course this semester. The course, which is directed by Mrs. H. T. Lilly, will begin early this semester, and a fee of $25 will be charged for admission. The course is a non-credit course and meets three times per week for nine weeks. At the end of this period, those needing further aid may obtain it without additional cost. Dr. Ostwalt, Director of the Student Counseling Office, stated that a limited number of scholarships are also available for students who are unable to finance the course. The course is not a remedial reading course, but one designed to develop, through special effort drills and concentration, a better use of reading skills. The course is directed toward a final end of better comprehension. It is offered with the belief that comprehensive reading, developed under conditions which characterize the reading habits of superior readers, will gradually establish essential reading methods. Students who are not sure about their reading abilities, or are interested in enrolling in the course are invited to consult the Director of the Student Counseling Office, Room 231, Chambers; or Mrs. Lilly, Room 232, Chambers.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1960

College Double The ’58 Total

Gifts to Davidson College in 1959 were more than double the amount contributed in 1958, according to President D. Grier Martin’s annual report to the Trustees of the college at their semi-annual meeting here Wednesday. Sparked by philanthropist-industrialist Charles A. Dana’s $400,000 challenge grant in April 1958, Davidson alumni, friends, foundations and corporations provided $1,874,260 during the 1959 calendar year as compared with $927,306 in 1958. “This evidence of increased interest on the part of those who know the college best,” stated Dr. Martin, “has now motivated Mr. Dana to provide $600,000 in additional gifts to bring his total gifts to Davidson to the million dollar mark, the largest amount ever given the college by one individual, except for the equity of the college in the Duke Endowment.” President Martin announced to the trustees that Mr. Dana’s additional gifts and pledges to the college include $200,000 as a challenge grant in the current program to secure funds for a $600,000 John R. Cunningham Music and Fine Arts Building; $100,000 for endowment to support the recently-completed Charles A. Dana Science Laboratories; and $100,000 over a five-year period for the Charles A. Dana Scholarship Program. The trustees’ agenda included a review of progress in Davidson's long-term $11,561,200 development program which has provided $4,135,110 for endowment and building purposes since 1957 when the effort, as a “Ten-Year Plan,” was first launched. President Martin pointed out that, while $2,037,656 has been raised to provide important new buildings for Davidson during the last three years, $2,093,954 has also been added to the college endowment to help keep Davidson's educational program in step with new demands in all areas of science and the liberal arts. President Martin announced that the principal needs remaining to be met in the Ten-Year Program will total at least $7,500,000, primarily for faculty salary endowment and other instructional costs. “It will require,” he said, “concerted effort on the part of all those who believe in Davidson to secure this essential financial backing without which the college will not be able to maintain the role of educational leadership which it is in most respects well-equipped to play.” One of the major actions by the trustees was to increase Davidson's tuition from $600 to $700 per year in a move to help finance salary increases as of July 1, 1960 for all members of the Davidson faculty. This move comes as a step forward in Davidson's continuous program to provide a steadily increasing faculty salary scale. Together with the $450,000 faculty salary endowment grant which Davidson received in December 1959 from the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation, it recognizes, in the words of President Martin, that “without a doubt, the key to the success of a college like Davidson is its teaching faculty.” During their day-long meetings, the trustees reviewed the college admissions program which must process each year an ever-larger number of applications from highly qualified students who have, according to President Martin, “high academic ability plus qualities of leadership, character and personality which make them outstanding in their ability to contribute to the life of the Davidson student body and to the wider community in their lives after college.” Dr. J. McDowell Richards, who serves as president of the Davidson Trustees and Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga., presided at both the morning and afternoon sessions. Also on the day’s schedule were a tour of the recently completed Dana Science Laboratories, a luncheon honoring faculty members appointed to their positions at Davidson since 1956, and a late afternoon coffee hour at the President's home, with veteran members of Davidson's faculty and staff.

Magazine Reprints Scripts ‘n Pranks

Charles Cornwell, editor of the Scripts ‘n Pranks, announced this week that part of the October issue of the magazine has been reprinted in the humor magazine of another college. The Pennsylvania State University’s Froth, in its annual selection of college humor, published four full pages of excerpts from the October insert on Davidson's “Courses of Instruction.” Said Cornwell, “It is the ambition of every college magazine to be ‘reprinted.’ The staff is quite enthused over this recognition, and we hope to produce another issue good enough to be reprinted.”

Salem's new cigarette paper discovery

Invisible porous openings blend fresh air with each puff for a softer, fresher, more flavorful smoke. Salem research creates a revolutionary new cigarette paper that breathes new refreshing softness and finer flavor into the smoke. Now, more than ever, there’s Springtime freshness in every puff of a Salem. Smoke refreshed... smoke Salem.