PATTERSON CONS! The Political Candidates (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
VOL. XLIX

MacLeish Makes Plans For November Lectures

The R. J. Reynolds Lectureship will bring three-time Pulitzer Prize winner Archibald MacLeish to the Davidson campus on Nov. 2 and 3. A tentative schedule for the poet-playwright has been set up, but specific times and places will be released later. Dr. MacLeish has been generally acclaimed one of the greatest artists of the century. He holds a professorial chair at Harvard University where he instructs a carefully-selected class in creative writing. He has been an editor of “Fortune” and an assistant Secretary of State. From 1939 until 1944, he served as Librarian of Congress.

PULITZER PRIZE

He was awarded his first Pulitzer Prize in 1932. His works include two volumes of poetry and five plays in verse, one of which is his masterwork, "J.B." This play uses the Biblical account of Job as a reference point. It was published in 1957. During its opening season on Broadway, it dominated the current drama and won its author the Pulitzer Prize for the third time. During his visit to Davidson, Dr. MacLeish will probably be the house-guest of Professor Cumming. Two of Dr. Cumming’s sons studied under MacLeish at Harvard. An assembly of the student body will hear Dr. MacLeish speak on Wednesday, Nov. 2. On Thursday he will deliver a lecture specifically to those who have a particular interest in the poetic art and in literature in general.

Dates To Occupy Belk, New Dorms

Mrs. Moore, supervisor of dormitories, announced that there will be approximately 567 places in Belk and New Dormitories available for dates during the Homecoming weekend. Residents of these two dormitories may sign up for rooms for their dates on Monday, and nonresidents will sign up for places in the dorms on Tuesday, after drill, on a first-come-first-served basis. Mrs. Moore requested that the boys arrange time to meet their dates when taking them out. This will especially apply to girls in New Dormitory where the chaperones will have to ring for each girl.

By PAUL TRAYWICK
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation has provided an endowment which provides annually $350,000 for teacher salaries and $100,000 for the R. J. Reynolds Lectureships. President Martin expressed the hope that Dr. MacLeish will find time to meet with certain groups. Those that will invite Dr. MacLeish will be those whose purposes are most pertinent to his field. Dr. Martin particularly indicated the literary societies and Sigma Upsilon, the honorary writing fraternity. The traditional “coffee hour” will be held at the Union in Dr. MacLeish’s honor. At this time, students will be given an opportunity to talk informally with him and pose questions concerning his ideas and art.

REYNOLDS LECTURER

Dr. MacLeish’s visit is the first of a series of lectureships made possible by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation. The grant was made to the college in 1959 for the purpose of bringing outstanding personalities to the campus for two or three-day visits. The Lectureship Committee will present a dramatic reading of Dr. MacLeish’s play, “J.B.” on Oct. 28. The group hopes that this production will give the student some idea of the author's art, and that it will stimulate interest in his visit. Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz and the “Vagabonds,” campus dramatics group, will present the reading.

Stresses Campaign Issues

The Great Issues Committee presented a debate on the coming election last Tuesday in the Morrison Ballroom. Democratic State Senator Bell and Republican Bud Coira presented the views of their parties, while a panel made up of Ed Johnston, Col. W. L. Adams and two reporters from the Charlotte Observer questioned them.

In his opening remarks, Senator Bell pointed out why not to vote for Nixon. He condemned the deterioration of foreign policy, the mistakes in domestic policy and, in general, the failures of the Republican administration. He then outlined some of the proposals which the Democrats had made and ended up by ridiculing the Nixon-Khrushchev kitchen debates.

Mr. Coira, representing the G.O.P., stated that the missile gap had been handed to the Republicans, along with the farm problem and numerous disadvantages by the Truman administration. He went on to say that the Republicans have realistic, creative, and sensible programs outlined in their platform which will solve these problems. He pointed an accusing finger at the power of labor in the Democratic Party, condemned the Democratic 1963 deadline on school integration as unrealistic, and finally restated a trend toward surrendering individual freedoms to Washington.

In the questioning which followed, both gentlemen agreed that the U.S. should work through the O.A.S. and against Cuba. But Senator Bell stated that he did not see how the U.S. could militarily defend the base at Guantanamo and maintain any consistency with our actions during the Suez crisis or remain within international law. Mr. Coira disagreed, contending that we could defend Guantanamo and should do so if the Cuban government attacked the base. Later, Senator Bell contended that the U.S. must begin to lay the groundwork for a major defeat in the U.N. He claimed that it is inevitable that Red China will be admitted and that we must start to prepare for this. Mr. Coira disagreed and claimed that any such move would cause a tremendous loss in prestige.

Council Reports On Petition, Amendments

Student Council President Henry Shue has announced that 278 men signed the petitions requesting that women from Queens and Woman's College be allowed to obtain overnight permission for Homecoming, October 22. The requests were sent by Dean John C. Bailey, Jr. Shue reported that nothing had been heard from W.C. However, Queens had already taken action before the requests were made. Queens girls may stay out until one o'clock Friday night and until two o'clock Saturday night. “I think the chances of anything more coming from Queens are very doubtful,” said Shue.

Shue also reported on a conference he had with Dean Bailey, concerning a recent Student Council proposal that students be allowed to attend church off-campus during the Sunday night vesper services. In the past students were allowed to attend church off-campus. But many students felt that this was weakening, or stretching, the Honor System, and the practice was stopped at their request. Also, Shue reported, if this were done, it would be hard to provide a large enough audience to warrant good speakers. Upon learning this the council amended its previous proposal. If adopted, students would be allowed to attend two off-campus vesper services per semester, pledging their attendance in the Dean of Students Office.

President Shue also pointed out that the Constitution is “fouled up.” It is probable that the Constitution does not exist. Just recently amendments were found which were passed several years ago. One of them, concerning the Honor Court, fixes the quorum for the Honor Court at ten. In light of this, the currently proposed amendment to fix the quorum at nine was withdrawn.

Young Takes Post On Honor Court

Stefan Young, of Charleston, W. Va., was elected to the vacant post on the Honor Court in last Monday's special election. Young overcame D. G. Martin in the run-off election, which had been re-run because of discrepancies in the voting procedure. Last Tuesday week the ballot boxes were not put into place before assembly, and showed signs of being stuffed. Last Monday's run-off was set to eliminate these errors. Junior class members voted to fill the vacancy left on the court to fill Harvard transfer Graham Allison’s post.

The Council moved to request Dr. Martin to appoint two students to the Artist Series Committee. Two weeks ago the Student Council received letters from Wofford apologizing for the incidents which occurred during the Davidson-Wofford football game. In response, the Student Council sent a similar letter to Wofford apologizing for Davidson’s participation in the riots. Shue reported Mrs. Moore has requested that Frisbee playing in the halls of Belk be stopped, because it is marking up the walls.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1960

Smith Reynolds hopes to diversify the series as much as possible. “Since Dr. MacLeish is a poet,” said Dr. Martin, “we will probably have a scientist next time.”

Local Great Debate Version

In the discussion period other major issues were discussed both on the national and state level, until Dr. Minter adjourned the meeting at 10 o'clock.

Single Dissenting Vote Kills Pledge Program

Two Weeks’ Discussion Fails To Bring Solution

By RUSSELL SHOWALTER
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The Interfraternity Council, after two weeks of drafting and discussion, at their regular meeting Monday night. As a result of the rejection, IFC president Jerry Cole immediately set up a committee to consideration (See last week's DAVIDSONIAN for modified pledge training proposal.) Taylor Will Direct Freshman Service Dr. Charles R. Eberhardt will speak at the regular vespers service in the College Church Sunday night. The freshmen will again hold separate vespers in Chambers Auditorium, IN “ST. JOAN” REHEARSAL Mrs. D. Grier Martin pleads forrejected the final version of the proposed pledge training regulations by an 11-1 vote. A unanimous affirmative vote had been previously decided upon before the proposal was to be submitted to the faculty for approval. The Interfraternity Council and fraternity men as a whole opposed the institution of Sophomore Rush. The original pledge training proposal was submitted to the IFC on September 26, by Hansford Epes, Frank Mansell, and Bob Phillips. According to the original proposal, “the purpose of the regulations is to show the Faculty and Administration that students are mature enough to solve their own problems without the enforcement of Sophomore Rush.” After the Interfraternity Council approved the original recommendation, it was presented to each of the twelve social fraternities for approval and/or modification. 

Major topics of debate concerned the time that a fraternity might require of a pledge, the prohibition of “stud” running, forced eating, calisthenics, and required pledge attendance at intramural athletic events. The revised recommendation passed by the necessary two-thirds majority and was again returned to the fraternities for approval. Each section of the proposal was discussed and voted on by each fraternity.

MINOR OBJECTIONS

Although eleven fraternities favored the proposal, two had minor objections concerning the striking out of calisthenics and the changing of Greek Week. The consensus among most IFC members was that although the vote represented a heavy majority, all fraternities on campus must throw their support to the pledge training proposal before it would receive proper faculty consideration.

Fraternity feeling on the proposal was aired at the Council’s October 3 meeting. Discussion continued for more than two hours. The claim that there is current support through economic sanctions was also discussed.

St. Joan Uses Costumes From Diversified Sources

Flickering torches sending shadows across the tall stone columns of Chambers and the haunting music of a recorder set the mood for the Vagabonds’ presentation of “St. Joan” Wednesday night. The performance featured a cast of students and faculty with Rev. B. Harrison Taylor, ‘25, as the speaker. Dr. Eberhardt is the author of The Bible in the Making of Ministers. He received his education at New York University and at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland. From 1946 to 1955, Dr. Eberhardt was a member of the Davidson faculty as the James Sprunt Professor of Bible. He is now associated with the graduate school of Towson, Maryland.

The Davidson alumni will conduct the service for the freshmen in Chambers Auditorium. Rev. B. Harrison Taylor, ‘50, will deliver the sermon, and Owen P. Leland, ‘84, will provide the music for the service. Rev. Taylor is a professor of Bible at Lees-McRae College in Banner Elk, N.C. Mr. Leland, also of Lees-McRae, will direct the Wee Choir, a choral group of ten voices. Dr. George Staples, College Chaplain and Chairman of the Faculty Committee on Religious Life, announced this week that separate vespers programs for the freshmen will continue through Oct. 23; after this date, services will be conducted for the whole student body in the College Church.

During the past two weeks, the Properties Committee, headed by Walter Bost, and Costumes Committee Chairman Bob Phillips carried on a far-reaching search to locate materials to suggest the approximate period of the play.

ABBEY ROBES

As he pointed out the costumes in the Vagabonds workroom, Phillips mentioned that the robes had come from many places. “Belmont Abbey in Belmont supplied a Benedictine monk's habit,” he said, with a gesture toward a flowing black robe. “The Episcopal Church here in Davidson loaned us other robes. We called on the Chapel Choir and the Male Chorus, too.”

MRS. MOORE'S BATHROBE

“We even pressed Mrs. Moore’s bathrobe into service as a costume,” Phillips continued. “Dr. Patterson's coat of mail posed a problem at first, but Hansford Epes and I decided to paint a converted burlap bag, and it came out pretty well.” Walter Bost paused to indicate two brightly painted cardboard shields. “These reproductions of shields are copies of those of King Charles of France and Warwick of England. Ben Cole painted them after studying pictures of the originals.”

MEDIEVAL CASTLE

Since part of the play was supposed to be set in the interior of a medieval castle, the Vagabonds held the performance outside to create the proper atmosphere. This decision created some tricky lighting problems, which were handled by a committee headed by “Buddy” Prentice. The group called for the spotlights in front of Chambers Building to be cut out for the performance. “The burning torches on tall poles were loaned to the Vagabonds by Dr. Ross McElwee, a Davidson alumnus,” Bost stated. “If anyone thought the chair used as the throne looked familiar, he was probably right,” Bost added. “Its usual residence is in President and Mrs. Martin's living room.”

READING IS A LAB

By LEONARD RICHARDSON
Davidsonian Feature Editor

The Davidson College Developmental Reading Laboratory states, in its printed release given to students, that it is their wish that each student who applies for training in reading will have as his general goal: “To become as able and as diversified a reader as his capabilities, the available facilities, the time limit, and the instructional program permit.” Mrs. H. T. Lilly, Director of the Developmental Reading Course, pointed out the procedures used. “We first give the students taking the course a survey test to see how they stand as to rate, comprehension, and vocabulary. Instruction is adapted to the individual needs of the student. However, instruction cannot be perfect because we have groups. We explain the rationale of rapid reading, and use various mechanical devices for breaking the barriers to rapid and efficient reading.”

As she pointed out the mechanical devices in the classroom, Mrs. Lilly briefly explained their uses. “We employ the tachistoscope, Controlled Reading—a new type of projector for which we have ninety-six different films, and three types of reading pacers. After he gets out of the habit of reading word by word, the student reads and checks to see whether this speed is maintained,” Mrs. Lilly continued, indicating a long shelf of diversified books. To demonstrate the functioning of the Reading Rate Controller, Mrs. Lilly placed a copy of “Readers’ Digest” in the machine and pressed a lever. A horizontal panel silently slid down the page. “As the shutter comes down, the object is to keep ahead of it,” she said. “Classes are limited to twelve. The Developmental Reading Course is one of the services of the Student Counseling Office. The program is entirely voluntary,” she continued, “and the student gets no credit for taking the course. The Laboratory has been (Continued on Back Page).”