PAGE FOUR

CLASS OF 1963 FLAG

Freshman Council president Alex Morgan, following the suggestions of the Alumni Association, stated, “All freshmen were notified of the plans
through hall meetings.” Roger Durham is spearheading the movement. This new custom will follow closely the past and present tradition
of the graduating class to raise and lower a class flag during graduation ceremonies.

“The first flag I know of,” commented Dr. C. G. Davidson, “was a secession flag raised over Chambers during the
Civil War, but that was back when there was division in the student body.” The College Commencement Program file, however,
dates the first Senior Class flag between 1920 and 1922. “They used to lower the flag,” reminisced Davidson, “and the
band would play ‘College Ties Can Ne’er Be Broken’, and everybody cried. Now they play the ‘Alma Mater’ but that’s
not much of a tear-jerker.”

“The original intention,” continued Davidson, “was to raise the flag again on the class’ 25th anniversary reunion, but they usually
lose them.” The class presidents ordinarily keep the flags, but at present there are two in the library, packed in
a ladies’ blouses box. One of these two flag boxes is labeled: ‘1928, blue with yellow lettering, full of holes.’
The other contains a 1956 red-on-white pennant.

The proposed freshman class flag, suggested last year by Dr. Monroe T. Gilmour, president of the Alumni Association at that
time, will be designed and purchased to be raised on Freshman-Parents Day or some other auspicious occasion. Intended to help
mold class spirit and unity, the flag will also fly at football games and other athletic events, class meetings, and
class rallies. It will serve as a tangible symbol of the class, something to fight for during the previously ill-fated
freshman riots against the upperclassmen.

Exam Schedule

WED. A.M. ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41 Jan. 20 P.M.
THURS. A.M. First Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Jan. 21 P.M. Fourth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
FRI. A.M. Jan. 22 P.M. Fourth Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
SAT. A.M. Third Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Jan. 23 P.M.
MON. A.M. Fifth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday Jan. 25 P.M. Third Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
TUES. A.M. Jan. 26 P.M. Second Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
WED. A.M. Second Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Jan. 27 P.M.

Class Ensign Joins College Tradition

This morning in chapel the freshman class adopted a class flag, the beginning of a new tradition on campus. A
vote was taken on a flag proposed by Tom Wright. If this proposal passed, and the Gallup poll insisted it
would, the plans will go to the Alumni Association, which will present the new flag to the class sometime along
with a Confederate flag.

THE DAVIDSON ORGAN HISTORY DISCLOSED

During Shearer Demolition

With the razing of Shearer Hall, the historic organ which was housed there for the past twelve years has been
dismantled and is being stored in the old Medical Building east of the College Church.

The two-manual and pedal organ possessing sixteen stops and dated 1869 was built by Peter Rosar, a German immigrant, at
Lancaster, New York. The rare German organ was brought to the attention of Dr. Robert Noehren while he was an
instructor of organ and piano at Davidson from 1946 to 1949. Dr. Noehren learned that the old Rosar organ was
standing in the parish house of St. John’s Lutheran Church in Erie, Pennsylvania where apparently it found little use and
had fallen into disrepair. Noehren, an expert on organ construction and one of the country’s leading concert organists, sensed its
value and was able to buy it for the Davidson College Music Department.

TEDIOUS TASKS

The task of restoration and installation in Shearer Hall was completed in June of 1947. Mr. Herman Schlicker from Buffalo,
New York, was engaged to restore the organ with the help of Dr. Noehren and his students. According to Noehren,
the group spent many hours at the tedious tasks which are inevitable in the restoration of such an instrument. “The
practical experience and knowledge obtained by the student helpers have given them an insight into the details and ideas of
organ design,” Noehren commented.

John T. Ferguson described the instrument in his article, “Rare Organ of 1869 Acquired by Davidson College in North Carolina”
which appeared in the November 1, 1947 edition of “The Diapason”. “When assembled, the organ is entirely unenclosed and stands
on a platform raised six feet above the auditorium level, so that the player faces the audience with his back
to the case.”

NO MEAN ABILITY

“It is obvious, upon hearing the organ, that the builder was a man of no mean ability and it is
believed the instrument authentically represents German traditions in and before his day. The sound of the organ belies its size.
Many who have heard it are amazed that it possesses only sixteen stops. This ensemble, full, yet clear, gives the
impression that there are reeds, which is not the case. There are marked differences between this organ and American organs
of its day and later. The tracker action is reliable. The touch is no heavier on either manual than that
of a grand piano.”

After its installation in Shearer Hall in June of 1947, the Rosar organ was put to many practical tests. “It
is proving to be no mere museum piece,” Fesperman added in his article in “The Diapason”. “On the contrary, all
who have heard or played it have expressed their enthusiasm for its striking ability to serve as a thoroughly expressive
musical instrument.”

COSTLY RESTORATION

At present the college has no suitable space to rebuild the organ. When Noehren bought the instrument in 1946 he
paid a nominal sum for it and insurance collected for damages in transit to Davidson helped defer the costs of
restoration and installation in Shearer Hall. It has been estimated that restoration today would cost from five to seven thousand
dollars. It has been suggested that in the future Oak Row might be converted into a practice studio. This would
involve removing the partition in the building and mitering the sixteen-foot organ pipes to make them fit into the limited
space. Lingle Chapel has also been mentioned as a place to install the instrument.

Negotiations with other colleges to find a buyer for the organ have not been successful. Professor Noehren, who is now
at the University of Michigan, is no longer interested in organs with the tracker action. The disassembled instrument will be
stored on the second floor of the old Medical College Building until college officials decide its future fate.

Council Assembles At Semester Break

The Student Council will discuss the possibility of allowing the return of students dismissed for honor violations at a meeting
scheduled for Friday, January 29. The faculty recently decided that permanent expulsion was perhaps too stiff a penalty, thus opening
the door for Council consideration. No official action could be taken at the Council’s regular meeting last Monday night, since
a quorum did not show up. With only seven members present, the Council simply discussed matters for consideration at the
scheduled meeting during the semester break.

Student Body President Dee Green said that the Council has rejected the proposal to meet at fraternity houses, because it
did not want to meet before “forced audiences”. President Green commented, “I'm still in favor of it myself.”

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will have open house for the student body after vespers Sunday night:
Brown
Kelton
McCutchan
Currie
Labban
Ratliff
Daggy
Lilly
Scott
Evans
Lloyd
Staples
Fleming
Lumsden
Watts
French
Marrotte
Whittle
Griffin

Dr. Ostwalt Resigns For Post In Virginia

Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, for twelve years Davidson’s Associate Professor of Education, has accepted the newly-created position of Dean of
Students at the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond. His resignation from the dual role of Director of Student Counseling
and Professor of Education will become effective June 1.Work with classroom teaching, Dr. Ostwalt replied, “I like student counseling but
teaching is my primary interest. At MCV, I will have to face the inherent problems of combining the two.” Bringing
in a note of historical interest, Dr. Ostwalt said that the last class of the Medical College of North Carolina
which held classes at Davidson graduated from MCV in 1916 or thereabouts.

In commenting on his new position, Dr. Ostwalt said, “I will be going into a job created by the Board
of Visitors of MCV which has no precedent and no previous organization. In addition to a six-hour teaching load, there
will be more administrative work than I've ever had. A tentative outline of the demands of the office states that
it will involve directing and coordinating the intellectual, religious, aesthetic, recreation, and physical fitness aspects of student life. Such a
position in a graduate school will naturally involve demands different from those of an undergraduate dean.”

After coming from a similar position at Duke in 1948, Dr. Ostwalt tackled the job of getting a formal student
counseling program started at Davidson while at the same time building up the curriculum in the Department of Education. During
this time he also carried an average teaching load.

126 West Fifth St.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1960

Dr. Schenck Plans Harvard Semester

On January 28, 1960, Dr. L. B. Schenck will leave with his wife for a semester sabbatical, an incorporated part
of the college’s program. Having chosen Harvard University as his destination, Dr. Schenck will continue his study in the field
of Theology as a post-doctorate scholar. Free to attend any classes he may have an interest in, Dr. Schenck indicated
his selection of Biblical Theology with particular attention to classes of Dr. Hall Lehmann, Dr. Paul Tillich, and Dr. George
Buttrick, the latter in the undergraduate department.

“My primary area of study,” said Schenck, “will involve a follow-up in research study in which I've been interested for
some time.” Since the publication of his book in the field of Covenant Theology, a 1941 Yale University Press edition
entitled The Presbyterian Doctrine of Children in the Covenant, Dr. Schenck has spent two summers of study in Europe and
a summer of Covenant Theology research in the periodical library of Union Theological Seminary in New York. This has afforded
him a fairly constant contact with the field of Theology in Europe.

Although his sabbatical terminates with the semester, Dr. Schenck intends to continue his study through the summer independently at the
Presbyterian Historical Library in Montreat, N.C.

Hi-Fi COMPONENTS AT WHOLESALE NET PRICES
Across From Ivey's 5th St. Entrance
Phone ED 4-0936

Do You Think for Yourself?

(DIAL IN THESE QUESTIONS AND SEE IF YOU'RE IN FOCUS)

Classes for the first semester end January 19—12:50 p.m.
Morning Examinations begin at 9:00 a.m.
Afternoon Examinations begin at 2:00 p.m.

Issues to be discussed by the Council after exams include a new election system and a rule to cover language
and science labs to supplement the honor code. The proposed election system will involve running three groups of candidates rather
than the former five. Before one group is completely run through, another group will be started. The new system is
designed to maintain student interest and increase participation. It will also force candidates to make an earlier decision as to
which office they will seek.

The proposed rule to cover lab work will be milder than the honor code rule against cheating or the ungentlemanly
conduct rule. These matters were also scheduled for discussion on the Friday after exams. The next Council meeting is scheduled
for the night of Monday, January 18.

Leading Theatres
Today and Saturday
Gregory Peck
Deborah Kerr
"Beloved Infidel"

Starts Saturday Nite
"The Miracle"
with Carroll Baker

SWANEE
Today and Saturday
"Terror Is A Man"
also
"The Scavengers"

Starts Thursday
"Samson & Delilah"

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...
PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

The Concert Band, under the direction of Dr. Frank West, sounds off to “O Davidson” during Shearer Hall ceremonies last
Wednesday during chapel period.

If you saw a full-rigged sailing ship in the middle of the desert, would you say (A) “Long time no
sea!” (B) “Wish they'd invent talking mirages,” or (C) “Anything can happen in Las Vegas!”?

When a man says, “Brevity is the soul of wit,” he means (A) he’s about to make a long speech;
(B) wise thoughts come in short sentences; (C) “Shut up!”

You're caught in a pouring rain—and you're offered a lift by a pal whose driving is dangerously erratic. Would you
(A) tell him you enjoy walking in the rain? (B) say, “Sure—but let me drive”? (C) accept rather than hurt
his feelings?

In choosing a filter cigarette, would you pick one that (A) says the filter doesn’t count, only the tobacco; (B)
is designed to do the best filtering job for the best taste; (C) gives you an enormous filter but very
little taste.

When you think for yourself... you depend on judgment, not chance, in your choice of cigarettes. That is why men
and women who think for themselves usually smoke Viceroy. They know only Viceroy has a thinking man’s filter—the most advanced
filter design of them all. And only Viceroy has a smoking man’s taste... the full rich taste of choice tobacco.

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows — ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!
