FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Netters Hit Pfeiffer in First Match

SIDE LINES
By Tom Scott

ON SPORTS

Resigns
By B. MILLNER

SPRING SPORTS PREVIEW

TENNIS — Davidson has been working out since February but was forced underground to the handball courts two weeks ago.
Freshman coach Ted Keesler has a green squad; most of the load will fall to Finley Lee and Doug Orr,
Southern Conference doubles champs. In the conference, it’s G. W. again by a good margin. Jim Tarr, one of the
best in the south returns, along with three other top lettermen. The Citadel and the Wildcats should fight it out
for the runner-up slot.

TRACK — Another winning season for the old fox, Heath Whittle. With the probable cancellation of The Citadel meet, Whittle
may finish with a 6-1 record—Furman is just about a sure loss. Bill Eckbert and Dave Gilmour take over where
Angus McBride left off in the distances. 14 lettermen return. The Citadel, VMI, and Furman will be at each other’s
throats for the conference championship. Top individual stars are Jim Pugh (Citadel) who is a three-way conference champion in the
dashes and low hurdles; Jim Martin and Charlie Phillips of Furman in the 880 and mile; Rivers and Davis of
The Citadel in the 440 and discus.

BASEBALL — Only one experienced pitcher, Dee Green, returns. Green pitched all four of the games Davidson won last year,
including two in one day. Three sophs may help. The ’Cats will be a good hitting team, with an air-tight
middle manned by Weasel Killiam. Harold Bynum, Russ Cotton, Richmond Rucker, Jerry Wiggins, Cole, Killian and Green are returning lettermen.

TRACKMEN

Brownie Thurman, Roger Beebe and Chester Alexander worked hard for the 440-yard event before the snow fell. They’ll count heavily
as the Wildcats try to equal last year’s 6-2 record.

Hall-Romping Trackmen Boast Big Letter Core

Inclement weather, flavored with foul weather, described the Davidson track team this week. The Wildcats held practice sessions within the
confines of Chambers Building. Reason? Inclement weather plus the fact that Chambers’ rubber-lined floors provide excellent traction. Coach Heath Whittle’s
boys are out to equal last year’s amazing 6-2 record, and their work is cut out for them. Their first
scheduled meet tomorrow at The Citadel has been postponed. A stout contingent from last year’s freshman squad is available, also.
Among these are David Gilmour, Bill Coffey, Dan Boggs, John Chiles, Pat Currie and Tom Keesler, in his first season
here, replacing Dick McKee, was to have made his debut on the local courts tomorrow with a down-rated Pfeiffer squad.
And it was doubtful that Wildcat freshmen would see action here today with Belton High School, which ranks among the
top teams in South Carolina.

COURT CHANGE

The Wildcats may re-route the Pfeiffer netters to Charlotte tomorrow, if the Davidson courts are unplayable. Asked about the condition
of his players this week, Keesler uttered a few descriptions of the weather and said, “We haven't been able to
see much of them lately.” The Wildcats, tagged as inexperienced, include four returning lettermen: Doug Orr, Harry Broome, Finley Lee
and Bob Huffaker. Rounding out the first six positions will probably be Jim Hamilton and Andy Sherrill.

DEFENDING CHAMPS

The real test for Davidson comes Wednesday as George Washington, defending conference champion, swats here. Two of the toughest swatters
in the conference — Jim Tarr and Jim Whitehead — will be in the No. 1 and 2 slots for
GW. Though Keesler expects George Washington to repeat its 1959 performance, he said, “We hope to give them a good
match.” The Citadel here Friday, is the team which finished third in the conference last year behind Davidson. The Cadets
are pretty weak, but boast a top trio: Jack Sterling, Monte Crook and Bennie Barn. The Wildcats’ fourth foe next
Saturday, Presbyterian, is a young team at four of the six positions. Youth, in this case, means trouble for Davidson.
The PC match marks the beginning of a road trip for the Cats with stops at Mercer, Georgia Tech and
Clemson.

DIXIE PRIDE

Tough Tech will be waiting with Ned Neely one of the best racketeers in the South. Supporting him, in the
No. 2 position is a fighter, Harry Thompson. Coach Keesler will be doing business with a relatively young team. Juniors
Rick Aderhold, Hight Redmond and Lee Cory are aiming for the No. 6 position, as are sophomores Stephan Young and
Bob Snead. Young took a first place earlier this month in the breaststroke at the Southern Conference swimming meet. “We
should improve as the season progresses,” said Keesler, reserving a final statement for the weatherman.

A Catawba meet scheduled here Wednesday has been postponed until April 1. On the following day Wake Forest will be
visiting. A strong core of lettermen in indoor track, the Wildcats travel to Chapel Hill this weekend for the Atlantic
Coast Conference Meet. Participating in the non-conference basketball star in 1956 at Wake.Horsehiders will have to hustle to break even.
He will receive his discharge from the Army this year. Citadel has the two top pitchers in Dick Almes and
Ed Colby, who won 18 games last year—should battle with George Washington for the conference leadership. Since January 1956, and
as athletic director since 1955, Scott compiled outstanding records as coach. Davidson will face such teams as Georgia, Carolina, and
Central Missouri.

Tom Johnson, Verner Stanley, and Sut Alexander are the three returning lettermen. All three are seasoned tournament veterans but will
have to score high to keep the ’Cats on top. Furman, The Citadel, and William and Mary will be gunning
for Davidson in the runner-up slot.

GOLF — Tom Scott lost half of the team that won the Southern Conference Championship in 1958 and finished second
last year. Hunt has served as assistant varsity coach and freshman coach for two years.

The Independents, finishing strong, bulled their way to a 46-44 win over the previously unbeaten SAE’s last Monday night to
end the interfraternity basketball season in a deadlock. Tee Redding paced the Independents with 20 points, while Ed Hines had
18 for the SAE’s.

The Pi Kapps pierced the win column by defeating the Phi Delts 46-43. The Sig Eps clinched the win column
by clowning the Gams 57-54. The Phi Delts laced the ATO’s 48-44. John Warlick and Mike Maddock were the Sig
Eps’ big guns.

Latest basketball results this week showed the Pi Kapps coming from behind to take the Sigma Chis 35-33. In other
cage clashes, the ATO’s squeezed past the Kappa Sigs 43-41. And the Phi Gams scored a win over the Sigma
Nus 73-30.

The Davidson baseball team will likely see its first three games called off because of weather conditions, but it’s just
as well. Coach Stevens has held no outside practices and only a week of workouts in the gym.

Pitchers Dee Green, who was credited with the Cats’ only four wins in 1959, and Tom Harris, have been throwing
inside and “look pretty good,” according to Stevens; but he wonders how they will do on the mound.

Since the first three games—two with Catawba and one with Hampden-Sydney—may not be played, the Wildcats are awaiting a three-game
road trip starting next Saturday. Davidson will play at Parris Island on Saturday and at Southern College the following Monday
and Tuesday.

Sophomore Tom Harris will start at first base, replacing Jerry Cole, who has moved behind the plate to fill Harold
Reagen’s shoes. “Rat” Rucker and Harry Smith will see action at second base, with Rucker also slated for some outfield
duty. Don Killian, last year’s starting shortstop, returns to his old position. If his injured leg holds up, Captain Russ
Cotton will hold down the third sack. Cotton led last year’s squad with a .333 batting average.

In the outfield, junior Quinton Boyd, who saw limited action in 1959, is the only returnee. Sophomores Allan Miller and
Lou Jones should take up the slack in the pasture.

Behind the plate, Cole will call the signals with Harry Cline backing him up. On the mound, the Cats will
have four sophomores, along with senior Dee Green. Tom Harris and Nick Daves are left-handers; “Big Moose” Showalter, termed a
“real hard thrower” by Coach Stevens; and Jerry Shelton round out the hill staff.

Even Virgil is with the Winston beat. Sing of arms and FILTER-BLEND, man, for if you dig a modern filter
cigarette, it figures that it’s what's up front that is the most. Like pure Flavorsville, orbit stuff, and all that
jazz; and only Winston swings with FILTER-BLEND up front, a real gone combo of golden, rich tobaccos selected and processed
like for filter smoking; that’s why, dear cats or even squares, it’s understood Winston tastes good like a cigarette should!
