LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

McGavock Rebukes French’s Column; Y, Sophomore Rush Draw Comment

The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1960
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

ROTC Good Enough To Be Better Department

Davidson’s ROTC, in newspaper jargon, is “good copy.” It's often in the news. In April, Georgia's Professor of Military Science and Tactics called Davidson’s military unit “the most outstanding I've ever seen.” And recently, significant changes in the ROTC curriculum here have won approving comment from observers at Davidson and elsewhere. The ROTC Department, it seems, is geared for success. Davidson’s student soldiers are growing accustomed to being dubbed the best of the lot. The DAVIDSONIAN shares the pride and interest of the campus community every time we hear the department described as better than the rest. And so we too were surprised at the negative appraisal from a group of seniors questioned on the educational value of ROTC last week. One senior asserted that “ROTC has about the same educational value as sleeping; it seems like a certain amount of time spent in oblivion.” In the business of education — even military education — it seems, being better than most is not good enough.

The DAVIDSONIAN, prompted by some suggestions from the seniors and observations of our own, offers the following suggestions which we feel will complement and enhance recent improvements in the ROTC curriculum:

1. More imaginative classroom teaching. The usual ROTC class is a rehash of material digested from incredibly dull Army manuals. Occasionally Army training films replace the lecture. The classroom period could be made more challenging by a more original approach to learning. Term papers, parallel reading, and student debates on topics of current national interest. In the past, such independent student work has been used sparingly, but to advantage. Why not supplement soporific field-manual fare with really nourishing learning right in the ROTC classroom?

2. A more realistic and objective view of world affairs. The present ROTC philosophy might be summarized: “Americans are good guys. Russians are bad guys. World War III is just around the corner.” The result: indoctrination and some misinformation, not education. The present ROTC curriculum is training for war — not for cold-war. Yet the most informed world commentators observe that as long as Russia (the bad guys) can win the economic battle for the uncommitted nations, she will be content to fight without arms. What has the department to lose by sponsoring objective study of the cold-war, with an eye to training informed officers who can be effective in a peacetime army?

3. A more flexible exemptions policy. We urge the ROTC department to consider exempting from compulsory training those freshmen who are unable to pass the standard Army physical examination for admission to the Advanced ROTC program. And we recommend exemption for students whose parents request exemption — regardless of their church affiliation or other reasons. The result would be smaller, more interested classes — an advantage in any course.

In an interview a few weeks ago, Colonel Adams stated that he “saw no conflict” between ROTC training and the ideals of liberal education. We believe that implementing our suggestions next year would enable him to speak more positively — to say that Davidson’s ROTC training actually enhances the value of liberal education. That may sound impossibly idealistic, but we think improvement is possible and well-worth the effort. Military training at Davidson should not be “a certain amount of time spent in oblivion” — and it need not be. (ESD)

A Plea For Maturity

The Student Council’s decision to give Jim Bootle a free rein with the Court of Control is a disappointment. We don't question Bootle’s sincerity where the court is concerned, but we will quarrel with his judgment. Bootle said this morning that his chief reason for putting the court back into Friday chapel (after the council had taken it out) is that the Friday call-down will stimulate upper-class interest and support in the program of the Court of Control. Without this support, the court will be ineffective. Bootle plans to make a plea for dignity (and silence) during the call-downs. He aims to assure that all reports of regulation violations are legitimate, so that when a boy is called, without benefit of a trial, he will be sure of being guilty anyway. These are fine ideas, but they just won’t work.

A chapel audience that reads newspapers while the college president is speaking won’t keep a respectful silence while a freshman accused of cockiness stumbles to the front of the auditorium. A congregation that can make a double entendre out of the word of the Lord will jeer an offender with consummate skill. If the Court of Control must look to jeers and catcalls for its support and authority, it has little justification for existence. The great injustice of the Court's chapel procedure is that the accused is punished before he has had a chance to defend himself in a fair trial. Bootle argues that it doesn't matter if a boy hasn’t been tried before chapel, because everyone who is called down is sure to be guilty anyway. If this is the case, why bother with a trial? It amounts to a kangaroo court.

We heartily support the petitioned amendment to the Student Council constitution which would establish a Freshman Advisory Board and abolish the Court of Control. One provision of this amendment states: “It shall be the primary duty of the Advisory Board to give mature counsel to any freshman who requests it, and to take initiative in providing counseling for all freshmen on an informal basis.” Once, very long ago, it might have been the purpose of the Court of Control to give mature counsel. But it has not counseled, and it cannot under its present structure and philosophy. Instead of alleviating freshman adjustment problems, it complicates them. The freshman should be regulated by a mature, constructive group, not a mild version of the Gestapo. We encourage you to vote for maturity next Friday.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Bill Godwin

BUSINESS MANAGER
B. Millner

Assistant Editor
Tom Colvin

Associate Editors
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore

Managing Editors
David Jordan
Don Saunders

Sports Editor
Charlie Rowe

Assignments Editor
Russ Showalter

Feature Editor
Ran Shaffner

Copy Editor
Jack Hand

Cartoonists
Ackerman

Advertising Manager
Olin Nisbet

Circulation Manager
Butler Bennett

Assistant Bus. Manager
Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Dear Editor,

During the past week, some of us were jolted by the rather decisive faculty vote putting into effect the much-discussed and controversial Sophomore Rush. That this is now a fact no one can deny, for the vote and subsequent comments tended to lend anything but hope for a reversal on the part of the faculty. While not denying that there would be certain healthy aspects involved in such a rush system, I am forced to wonder and to doubt that a number of questions of a mechanical nature were even considered. The first thing that comes to my mind is that of the Fraternity Housing Fee. We are told by the business office that it is imperative that the college be paid $46.00 per Fraternity man per year, in order that the college realize a reasonable return on its investment. Considering that, say, two hundred men do not pay this for the year, from somewhere must come this return. Where? The Fraternity man, naturally and rightly so. His share would go up, conceivably, twenty-five percent, or around $11.50, making a total of $57.50. We have been in the new houses for about two years now; new houses which were a sign that the college backed the system. Money was borrowed for furniture and kitchen equipment with this backing. Finally, though there are many other valid points against the change, this move by the faculty...

Latter-Day St George ... LIBERTY EQUALITY. B.H. FOR B.D.

Students, Flushed With Anger, Solicit Aid For New Movement

By LOY McKEITHEN and HENRY KEITER

It being generally known and unanimously accepted that this fair institution is lacking in every conceivable respect, and there having occurred numerous and varied campaigns, attacks, and wars to transform this odious situation of intolerable want, we of the Head Committee do hereby state clearly and in shocking reality the most diabolically neglected area of Davidson College life and work. In short, we demand Better Heads for a Better Davidson. As the response to today’s poll was overwhelming, THE DAVIDSONIAN has gladly given us this space. This is not surprising in view of this paper’s enthusiasm for printing any type of criticism.

Let us begin at that Hades of Sanitation, Richardson Stadium. Have you never realized that the hundreds of people from whom we are continually trying to extract funds are here exposed to a spectacle of gross dirtiness, cracked porcelain, and odors? What is more is that these rich generous people and the guests whom we are trying to impress are faced with the panicky horror of having no toilet paper.

EMBARRASSMENT

In Chambers Building, people come barging through the door, smashing knees, and falling over a helpless person before they realize the toilet is occupied. The paper towels are very logically placed beside the urinal, where one has to tolerate hands reaching over his shoulder.The library is a spectacle of embarrassment. One is standing at the urinal when suddenly the door is thrust open, and he is exposed to the world, which often includes embarrassed ladies. But this is not much worse than before, as the glass in the door is quite transparent anyway. None of the heads have doors for the toilet compartments. This in new buildings—see for yourselves how well painted, clean, and odor-free the faculty heads are kept. We demand immediate and total integration of heads! In the best interest of Davidson College! MORE FACILITIES! We demand bigger heads in Cannon, East, and Watts, so that when sophomore rush begins, freshmen will have a place to have social functions and parties. Also, they will serve as meeting places for the new 25-man advisory board. We demand more facilities, especially in Chambers where there is only one toilet and one urinal per head. This will be in keeping with a more liberal cut policy which will afford more time for students to use the increased facilities. We make this final plea—join with us for better heads by 1962. We are sure that Dr. French's rabid interest in cleaning things up will lead to his complete support. Also, as this is another liberal cause, it goes without saying that Dr. Goodykoontz will render his influence on our behalf. 

The faculty seems to be taking over where the fraternities would not. What good are the fraternities, aside from their own selfish pursuits? What do they do outside themselves? SAE Fraternity has had a series of speakers from time to time, to which the entire campus was invited. ATO Fraternity instituted the “Olympics.” The IFC has undertaken to turn Hell Week into the more constructive Greek Week, and with noticeable results. Support of all campus activities is encouraged with especial emphasis put upon academic effort. Campus clubs and honor societies, Male Chorus and Band, the YMCA and Westminster Fellowship as well as MYVF and other activities of a religious, social, and academic nature find support from men who also find time to enjoy fraternity life. We will abide by the faculty decision and will endeavor to make Sophomore Rush workable. Changes were coming, for the better, I believe. I just hope that this one will be better thought out, and time given where it is needed. 

Tom Mainor Richardson

Dear Editor,

First, I want to clarify what I have meant by the phrase “bring glory to God through Jesus Christ.” When I first decided to use this phrase (and numerous people have told me that this is antiquated) I wanted something that would stick in the mind of the student body as the purpose of the YMCA for next year. By this phrase, I meant that every phase of YMCA work would first be judged as to the effect of this work. Would it be done to make the YMCA a more popular organization, or would it be done in line with what is felt to be the purpose of the YMCA? This, then, is what I meant when I used this cliché. I shall attempt to hold my use of antiquated phrases to a minimum. When I slip up, I shall be glad to explain myself.

Second, it has been brought to my attention that the statement on the recent Interest Card was both contradictory and derogatory in its connotation. This statement read: “To work or participate in the program of the YMCA does not mean that you must believe that Jesus Christ is the Divine Son of God. But it does mean that you must recognize the above motivating purpose of the YMCA.” The reason that this statement was placed on the card was to emphasize that to participate in the YMCA one does not have to make any statement of his belief in any creed. The statement was not meant to derogate any person or any certain belief. In the future, this statement will be corrected. Due to the word limit for letters to the editor, I have had to omit over half of my letter dealing with membership, purpose, and the Wildcat Handbook. I plan to have this letter mimeographed in its entirety for student reference. I invite you to get a copy at the Union desk.

Jimmy Richardson McGavock

Dear Editor:

Professor French closed his article in last week’s guest column of THE DAVIDSONIAN with this statement: “An official representative of the college states that the percentage of alumni on the Davidson faculty is on the decrease! Any non-alumnus staff member, I believe, would consult the records, determine the facts, give a slight shiver, and come up with a somewhat different answer.” I do not wish to debate the issue that an alumnus cannot be relied on to present a fair case, for if this is what Mr. French believes, he is entitled to his opinion. I do wish to present the facts so that anyone who wishes may make a decision as to the accuracy of the statistics in question. The “official representative of the college” was using figures prepared by me for use in a talk before a group of alumni. I therefore wish to take full responsibility for the alleged distortion of the truth. My facts were collected from the college catalogue except in 1932, ‘34, ‘36, ‘56. In these years the college annual was used. I included all teaching members of the faculty except members of the ROTC Department. These men are not selected by the College Administration. No one was included except teaching members of the faculty. My statistics have been checked by Mr. French and are in accord with his except for slight variations due to the fact that he excluded instructors and visiting professors. In no cases were our results in variance by more than 2% and in most cases agreed exactly. In 1959 he had 40%. The comparison extended only over the 1954-60 period.

YEAR ALUMNI
1932 68%
1934 64%
1936 60%
1938 58%
1944 55%
1946 57%
1948 50%
1950 48%
1952 48%
1954 43%
1956 43%
1958 40%
1959 40%
1960 40%
1961 43%

*based on information from Dean Johnston that 16 men, six of whom are Davidson alumni, are being replaced next year by 16 men, six of whom are Davidson alumni.

W. G. McGavock

Dillard Answers Bootle’s Chapel Charges

(Editor’s Note: Dave Dillard is the author of the proposed amendment concerning the Freshman Advisor Board. He wishes to clarify several misconceptions which might derive from this morning’s chapel.)

By DAVE DILLARD

This polemic, addressed particularly to Judge James Bootle, Esq., I should commence with “Poor Bootle! Frantic Bootle! Vulgar Bootle! Noodle Bootle!” But that wouldn’t be nice and we must be nice in public, mustn’t we Bootle. Bootle, the fish are running downstream but rather than try to stop them you might try to answer Professor Abernathy’s question, “Which bottle are you in?”

WEAPON WAS COOLNESS

Bootle, you were magnificent in Chapel this morning, you appealed with great success to immaturity, misunderstanding, and red-necked prep-schoolishness. Your weapon was cool vulgarity. Bootle, you were not far from the truth when you alluded to a petition “signed by seventy-odd members of the student body.” The men who signed that petition were odd. They included the editors of all three campus publications, two members of the newly-elected Honor Court, former members of the Court of Control, several members of the ’59 Freshman Council and a large percentage of the seniors who have recently been awarded graduate fellowships.

IN THE BEST INTEREST

But enough of particulars. We have overall demands for all the heads of Davidson. The first of these is against discrimination between faculty and student heads. In Chambers faculty heads have locks on the doors and the water fountains work, being especially bad upstairs in Duke where the sitting students face each other and in the library where one must greet all who enter.

The proposed amendment is almost identical to Henry Shue's proposal in the recent campaign. It provides for “... an Advisory Board to give counsel to any freshman who requests it, and to take the initiative in providing counsel for all freshmen on an informal basis.” Bootle, the whole implication of this statement is that any counseling that is done will be from one member of the Advisory Board to a freshman and that counseling in front of a formal group is impractical. The only time a freshman would be brought before the Board as a group would be, as the amendment states, when he has been reported for a violation of freshman regulations set up by the Board.

FURTHERMORE, NO ADDITION

Furthermore, Bootle, the proposed Advisory Board is anything but an “addition” to the counseling services already set up for the freshmen. It would consist of the twenty orientation group leaders who are already an integral part of the whole process of orientation. These men are carefully selected by the Freshman Advisor who works in consultation with the Dean of Students. It is not unlikely, Bootle, that you could and would serve as a group leader. You held this position last fall and, just think, under the Advisory Board system you could still work to “remove any cockiness brought from high school,” that cockiness which “is dangerous to the individual since others will recognize it.”