SUE GRANDY Alpha Tau Omega
JACKIE NEELY Sigma Phi Epsilon
LYNN THOMAS Beta Theta Pi
KIT LOWE Sigma Chi
SARA SWANN
LIB LONG
SUZI JENSEN
BECKY NEWSOM Kappa Alpha
Kappa Sigma
Pi Kappa Alpha
Pi Kappa Phi

Dance Weekend Schedule

FRIDAY
6:00 p.m.—Supper at Fraternity houses
8:15 p.m.—Artist Series featuring the dance team of Goya and Matteo
9:00 p.m.—Dance in Johnston Gymnasium with Glenn Miller Orchestra (semi-formal)
12:00 p.m.—After dance parties

SATURDAY
All a.m.—Judging of the Homecoming displays
12:30 p.m.—Alumni luncheon
2:30 p.m.—Football game with Richmond
4:30 p.m.—Receptions for Alumni, fraternities, and College Union
8:00 p.m.—Concert with Joni James in Chambers Auditorium
10:00 p.m.—Dance in Johnston Gymnasium, featuring the Duke Ambassadors
1:00 a.m.—After dance parties

HOMECOMING ISSUE

VOL. XLIX, DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1960

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

BRUCE ALLEN Sigma Alpha Epsilon
SARA HUNTER Phi Gamma Delta
KATE BRADSHAW Sigma Nu
TONNA THOMPSON Phi Delta Theta

HOMECOMING ISSUE NUMBER SIX

Sixty-Three Weekends: That's Cop's New Record
By ERVIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Sixty-three straight dance weekends. Three a year for twenty-one years. That’s how many Cop Linker, Davidson’s campus policeman, has seen. Weekends are just routine, he says. Just a little change in schedule, a little more work. A dance weekend means patrolling the parking lots, the soccer field, the stadium, and the dark corners of the campus more carefully. Why? It's law enforcement. He's looking for amorous couples in parked cars.

OBEY THE RULE
“I’m not trying to make romance unpopular,” Cop Linker says; “It's the natural thing to do. But we've got to obey the rule. You won't find that rule in the handbook. It’s just understood.” And so Cop tours the campus in the wee hours, nudging romancers away with a honk of the horn of his battered pick-up truck. “The most I usually get is about a half a dozen, and the average is about three.

HE'S EMBARRASSED
“I’m always embarrassed to go up to a parked car. Most boys think I get a kick out of seeing how many I can catch, but I'm always hesitant. Usually I tap my truck horn and flick the lights, then drive on, slowly. If they don’t move I come back, and then maybe there’s some talking done. Freshmen of course are the ones you get the most kick out of. You have to tell them we don't allow mixed car parties on dance weekends. I say ‘About bedtime, sonny,’ and sometimes they ask, ‘Well, where can we park?’ Doggone! That's already supposed to be settled.

GIRLS HIDE
“The girls never say anything. Now though, I get the impression they're kind of shaken by the experience. Some of them hide their faces. I get the impression that a boy feels like if he’s going to spend ten dollars on a weekend, he wants ten dollars worth of — I don’t know what you'd call it — entertainment. Well, it seems to me a boy should go to bed after the dance, and next day he'd be a better partner. When you're sleepy it’s hard to make conversation.

UNUSUAL POSITIONS
“Why, Saturday nights you find them parked and they're sound asleep, worn to a frazzle. That's what I don't understand. Of course, you find them asleep in some very unusual positions.”

Cop Linker couldn’t think of the most amusing experience he’s had on his dance weekend patrols. “I don’t know. Lots of things you run into you'd best not talk about. But the most hair-raising experience I remember was on the soccer field at Spring Frolics about ten years ago. I drove around the field, knocking along pretty lively, and I came very near running over two couples, all of them sound asleep. That would have been something.”

How did they react? “Well, I don't remember what I said, but there was some moving done.

THEY'LL KISS ANYWHERE
“One thing about this modern generation. They don’t need

Sets Mock Roundtable Committee Election
The Student Union Roundtable Committee will sponsor a mock presidential and gubernatorial election in the student assembly Monday morning, October 24. Preceding the mock election will be eight-minute speeches by Republican Tom Colvin and Democrat Charles Rose.

SENTIMENT HIGH
“A partial vote is not an accurate vote,” said Ed Johnston, Chairman of the Union Roundtable Committee. “The political sentiment on the Davidson campus is high. We'd like to get an accurate indication of student opinion.” Ballot boxes will be placed at the two back doors and at the two front doors of the auditorium.

WRITE-IN CANDIDATES
“Unless we get a vote from nearly every member of the student body, we won’t have an accurate indication of whom Davidson supports for governor of North Carolina and for president of the United States.”

Mr. James A. Pinkney, a member of the class of 1927. While at Davidson, he was president of the student body, a member of Beta Theta Pi, a member of Delta Kappa, and served on the track and football teams. He later returned to Davidson to teach political science from 1946 till 1950. Mr. Pinkney studied at the

Financial Drive Reaches $2300
A total of $2,076.29 has been donated or pledged by students in the YMCA Financial Drive. A total of $1,342.79 has been donated directly by 274 students, while a total of $733.50 has been pledged by 115 students. Although the student drive has been completed, about $50 more is expected to come in from students. Approximatelya dark place to do their kiss. 60 per cent of the faculty and staff contacted has donated an additional $250. Those who have pledged contributions will receive envelopes in the mail in time to use them at Vespers Sunday.

School, practiced law for four years, and then became chief examiner for the Bureau of Motor Carriers. After his professorship at Davidson, he was a general counselor for the American Trucking Association. He is now vice-president of the Ryder System, Inc., a truck leasing firm, and resides in Coral Gables, Florida, with his wife and two sons. The vice-presidents of the Alumni Association are Dr. Hugh M. Hill, of Gainesville, Florida, and Mr. William A. White, Jr., of Charlotte, North Carolina. Dr. Hill, a member of the class of '48, was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon Social fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Sigma Upsilon. Dr. Hill was also the student body president. Among his other activities were THE DAVIDSONIAN and Quips and Cranks. Dr. Hill graduated from Johns Hopkins Medical School and is now a physician and assistant professor in the Department of the University of Florida Medical School.

Alumni To Install Officer In Halftime Ceremonies

Tomorrow, during half-time of the Davidson-Richmond football game, President D. Grier Martin will present Davidson's newly-elected alumni officers. The president of this group is University of Colorado Law of the YMCA Board of Directors. Having received an M.B.A from the University of North Carolina School of Business Administration, Mr. White is presently the manager of the Charlottetown Mall.

Joni James Replaces Hi-Lo’s: Wildcats Tangle With Spiders

Dates Weave Spells As Festivities Begin

By ZACH SMITH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Miss Joni James, popular singer and a hit at Midwinters last year, became a surprise replacement for the Hi-Lo’s on the entertainment schedule for Homecoming 1960 dance weekend. Jerry Cole, IFC President, learned Thursday night that the Hi-Lo’s would be unable to appear at Davidson this weekend. Their spokesman said that one member of the quartet had recently left the organization, and that the new singer was not yet prepared to replace him.

JONI CONTACTED

Cole was able to contact Miss James’ agent and to arrange for her to appear in a concert at 8:00 p.m. tomorrow night. She will be backed up by the Duke Ambassadors. The weekend began its hectic whirl today as 750 dates arrived on campus. The first Artist Series presentation of the year, “A World of Dancing,” with Goya and Matteo, started the festivities of the evening. At 9:00 p.m. a semi-formal dance in Johnston Gymnasium will begin, with music by the Glenn Miller Orchestra under the direction of Ray McKinley. Featured with the band are the Lenny Hambro Quintet, a jazz combo, and Debbie Lang, the band’s vocalist.

750 ALUMNI EXPECTED

About 750 alumni and friends will begin to arrive about 10:00 a.m. tomorrow. The alumni will register in the College Union and then be feted at a barbeque on the back campus from 12:00 to 2:00 p.m. In case of bad weather the barbeque will be held in Chambers dining hall. During the morning the traditional Homecoming displays of the various fraternities will be judged. This year all the displays are the work of individual pledge classes, and an IFC trophy, accompanied by a prize of $25, will be awarded for the best decoration.

RICHMOND GAME

At 2:30 p.m. Davidson will meet Richmond in the Homecoming game. At halftime the new officers of the Alumni Association will be presented. After the game the social fraternities and the College Union will hold open house for alumni and visitors. At 8:00 p.m. on Saturday evening Miss Joni James will present a concert in Chambers Auditorium. The Duke Ambassadors will accompany her, and will then play for the informal dance in the gym until midnight.

AFTER-DANCE PARTIES

Both tonight and tomorrow night there will be after-dance parties sponsored by the fraternities. There will also be a combo party in Cave Counterpoint from 1:00 to 5:00 a.m. Saturday morning. Tickets will be sold at the door, for $3 a couple. Cole expressed great enthusiasm for the weekend, and expressed the hope that the students would enjoy Miss James’