FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1950 — Members of the Fine Arts 41 class made Christmas cards this week by printing sheets
with inked linoleum blocks. Visiting Associate Professor of Fine Arts Philip Moose (left) shows Gaines Grantham (center) how to print
a card, while Tim Ray applies red ink to a roller. This week the unusual Christmas cards and some of
the other work by the Fine Arts Studio classes are on exhibit in the lobby of Chambers Building. (Davidsonian Photo
by Lafferty).

Weather Aids Work On Fine Arts Building
By FRED HARRISON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The John R. Cunningham Music and Fine Arts Building may be completed sooner than was previously announced, Business Manager Robert
A. Currie stated this week. Although the contract cites the end of September as the completion date, the contractor is
working toward finishing construction by Sept. 1, 1961, if the favorable weather holds up, Currie added. “The main fault of
all the fine arts buildings which we looked at while planning for the John R. Cunningham Building was the poor
acoustical arrangement. We were fortunate to have had an acoustical consultant and to have had funds with which to reflect
his recommended action.”

FLOOR POURED

“The building is making very good progress,” Currie reports. Work was continued on the outside brick walls and window frames
were set in place this week. Workmen have started to pour the concrete floor of the building. They hope to
finish this part of the construction before bad weather begins. Earlier this week the architect sent a man to work
out the last details on the stage wagon track. The engineering of the wagon is the most difficult aspect of
the building. The problem—and the last technical complication—is to make the track level and put it into the floor. Because
of this difficulty, the concrete floor of the stage has not yet been poured. The stage wagon is perhaps the
most unique feature of the building. Weighing nearly two tons with lights and curtains installed, it will be used for
dramatic productions only.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Cumming
Elliott
Frey
Ghigo
Gross
Horton
Johnston
Lammers
Lester
Lord
McGeachy
Minter
Pierce
Plott
Purcell
Rhodes
Schenck
Smith
Threlkeld

'61 Annual Breaks Traditional Design

Quips and Cranks will undergo numerous changes this year, and according to Editor Charlie Rose, the yearbook will be “quite
a surprise.” The book will be completed in late February and should be distributed to students sometime in April. The
yearbook staff has initiated a new system of organization, which is based upon simplicity in layout design. Rose believes that
it will give a more personal picture of the students. The reorganized yearbook will attempt to give a picture of
a student's four years at Davidson. One chief difference in this year's edition is that the freshmen section will appear
first, with the sophomore, junior, and senior sections following respectively. Each student section will be preceded by an outline of
events in which that group participated. The fraternity section will follow the classes and activities. “I certainly hope that students
will read Quips And Cranks as a book this year, not just as a catalog of faces,” stated Rose. The
annual was unable to sponsor the beauty contest during the Four Freshmen weekend because of the additional time needed to
publish the yearbook. Rose said plans are being made to conduct it during the second semester.

Debaters Take Two Honors In Contest At Appalachian
By ZACH SMITH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Davidson debate team won eight of 20 rounds last week in competition at Appalachian State Teachers College. Greg Govan
placed second in the Extemporaneous Speaking Contest and John Rankin placed in the Oratory Contest. Eleven colleges entered teams in
the tournament. Duke, Mississippi Southern, East Tennessee, Gardner-Webb, South Carolina, and Appalachian each entered one team. Maryville, Wingate, Lenoir-Rhyne, and
Davidson entered two teams and Carson-Newman entered three. Mississippi, which gives debate scholarships, won all its rounds to place first.
Davidson had to get a substitute in order to enter its “A” team. On the way to Boone, Roger Pancoast
became ill and had to be hospitalized. Appalachian lent a debater so that both Davidson teams could enter. Ann Sharpless
of West Palm Beach, Fla., teamed with Tom Poston to make up the “A” affirmative team. The “A” negative team
was composed of John Rankin and Skip Jones. This was the first college competition for the “B” team composed of
Harold Fisher and Bob Lewellyn, affirmative and Govan and Bill Brown, negative. Dr. J. T. Drake, coach of the debate
team, said that Davidson had a most successful trip to the tournament, because of the experience that the debaters gained.
There will be few debate activities until the beginning of next semester when practice will begin again. Dr. Drake hopes
to form a third team at that time if more men come out. On Feb. 17, the debate team will
travel to Florida State University for a tournament with teams from the entire South, and they will attend a tournament
at Lenoir-Rhyne on March 9, 10, and 11. The team might possibly attend two other tournaments, at Carson-Newman in April
and the Tau Kappa Alpha (national debate fraternity) tournament in early May in Louisville.

The annual Slater Food Service Christmas dinner will be held next Tuesday from 5 to 7 in the Union cafeteria.
The dinner will be given in appreciation for the ticket-holders, regular customers, and college administration.

Generosity and Luck Sent Dawids To New York City
By LEONARD RICHARDSON
Davidsonian Feature Editor

The generosity of a manufacturing executive and a lucky coincidence united Danish exchange student Richard Dawids with his father in
New York this week. “I'm coming to New York soon on a business trip,” the letter Richard got from his
father a month ago said. He cautioned Richard that it would not be practical to leave his studies to come
to New York, and he apologized that time would not permit him to go south to see his son. It
seemed of his way to give a Danish exchange student a free trip. It may be because Fritz Jansen has
not always lived in North Carolina. Before he came south to manufacture metal screws for furniture, he lived in the
North. And years ago, Fritz Jensen landed in Manhattan on his twenty-first birthday.When it is not in use it will
be rolled on tracks through two large doors into an adjoining room. This will leave the permanent stage acoustically fitted
for musical performances.

FINE ACOUSTICS!
"We are very pleased that the planning incorporates all of the acoustical requirements,"

Blood Drive Offers Donors Free Cuts
The biannual Red Cross Blood Drive, sponsored by the Interfraternity Council, and the ROTC, will be held Monday and Tuesday
in the Johnston Gymnasium. Blood may be donated from 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. each day.

The IFC presents a trophy each semester to the fraternity with the highest percentage of donors. All students who are
on an athletic team, have a medical excuse, or are under 18 do not give blood but can sign the
list for fraternity credit. All students under 21 must have parental permission on forms obtainable at fraternity houses or the
ROTC.

Sigma Nu copped the trophy last semester and will retire it if they present the highest percentage of donors in
the present drive. Each blood donor will receive a free cut at drill on Tuesday, Dec. 13, and a physical
education cut.

Last Saturday Richard was riding to the Shrine Bowl game with Fritz Jensen, a wealthy Statesville businessman who knows Richard's
father. “How are your parents, Richard?” Jensen asked. Richard told him that his father was in the United States at
that moment, in New York on a business trip. He explained that his father did not have time to come
to Davidson, and he could not afford to go to New York.

“I’m going to New York tomorrow. Why don’t you go with me?” Jensen asked. Overwhelmed, Richard answered yes almost right
away, as soon as he had overcome his surprise and put his political science review in the back of his
mind.

After the Shrine Bowl game, Richard called his father to tell him the good news, mixing English with Danish in
his haste. Richard was still excited as he packed Sunday afternoon. “He said to take my tux. Do you think
I'll need it?” he wondered, pausing to gaze periodically to see if he had reached the 40-pound air baggage limit.

At 5:30 Sunday afternoon Jensen’s new Cadillac drove up behind Belk Dormitory. “I've been so lucky!” Richard said as he
waved good-bye. He was still wondering why a man he hardly knew would go out of his way to help
him.

Fowler Represents College At SCONA
Wyche Fowler is representing Davidson College at the Sixth Annual Student Conference on National Affairs this week at Texas A&M
in College Station, Texas. Fowler was selected as the Davidson SCONA representative by a faculty committee. At the conference, he
is participating in a series of discussions on the topic “The Task For the Free World: Problems and Opportunities in
the '60s.”

The purpose of the conference as set forth in the SCONA pamphlet is to “provide an appreciation of the complexities
of the foreign policy of the United States to an increasingly large number of college students of the South and
Southwest.” Through the serious exchange of ideas between college juniors and seniors from the United States, Canada, and Mexico, SCONA
hopes to help promote a generation of responsible leaders in national and international affairs.

Fowler left Charlotte Airport Tuesday for the conference which will extend through Saturday.

From the happy look on your face, I deduce you are imbibing Coca-Cola. No mystery about why Coke is the
world’s favorite — such taste, such sparkle! Yes, my favorite case is always a case of Coke! Elementary, my dear
Watson!

BE REALLY REFRESHED.
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, N.C.

Rangers Bob and Joe, on snow patrol in a new area, have taken a short cut in their race to
camp before an approaching blizzard...

OUR PATH! THE ONE GULLY slope is in delicate balance, the slightest vibration in the air, such as Bob's shout,
will cause it to let go.

I SEE BY YOUR VICEROY YOU THINK FOR YOURSELF ABOUT CIGARETTES, TOO.

GOT IT... AT BOTH ENDS! GOT THE FILTER, GOT THE BLEND! Viceroy’s got it... at both ends!

© 1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP.

MAJOR GENERAL W. B. YEAGER of the U.S. Army Xll Corps inspected the ROTC Corps in a parade and drill
last Tuesday. On the reviewing stand are Lt. Col. W. L. Adams, Jr., President D. Grier Martin, and Sgt. Jerry
K. Crump. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells).

Cadet Corps Pleases Xll Army Commander
Maj. Gen. W. B. Yeager, who inspected Davidson’s ROTC cadet corps last Tuesday, was pleased with what he saw, THE
DAVIDSONIAN learned late this week.

"The entire inspection went off like a charm,” Col. William L. Adams, PMS & T, reported. “The General was most
impressed with the extent of student participation in the program here, and also with the spirit in which the inspection
was carried out.” Col. Adams added that he considered the briefing given the general during chapel period on Tuesday was
the finest that he had seen since coming to Davidson.

Adams said that he felt Gen. Yeager made his most generous compliment on the way back to the airport when
he turned to his aide and said, “Now you've really seen something.”

Yeager, who is commanding general of the Twelfth Army Corps, had never visited Davidson before, but knew a good bit
about the school through his service with Maj. Gen. Brook E. Allen, a Davidson graduate, who is now commander of
Bolling Air Force Base.

Davidson will not receive a numerical rating on the inspection. In a few days, however, Gen. Yeager will send a
letter to Col. Adams listing specific favorable and unfavorable points observed. Another letter will be mailed to Washington.

Tryouts for the next Vagabonds production, “The Matchmakers,” will be held Sunday afternoon at 2:00 o’clock in the Dome Room
of Chambers.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

Marking another Milestone — GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
Rich in history and rich in promise, too — that’s York County, Pennsylvania. And the telephone company covering this prosperous
and progressive community has recently become a member of the General Telephone family.

York’s pattern of growth is typical of the areas Gen Tel serves in 31 states. Long famous for its fertile
fields and well-kept farms, the county has enjoyed a remarkable industrial expansion since World War II. Typical, too, of these
growing areas is their growing need for more telephones. And that is where Gen Tel comes in with the experience
to provide improved service and the willingness to invest in modern communications equipment. This is just one of the ways
we are working to supply more and better telephone service for a growing America — present and future.
