FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

For Spider Burial

The Davidson track team defeated the Richmond Thinelads 80½ to 59½ at Richmond yesterday, as Wildcat depth proved too much for the host Southern Conference foe. The victory was the fourth in six starts for the successful thinclads. Each team took eight first places, but Davidson won 21 second and third places to the Spiders’ ten.

Citadel Clubs Wildcats Tomorrow

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College golf team will play host to a mediocre Citadel team this Saturday at the beautiful Mid-Pines Course in Southern Pines, N. C. The ’Cats, seeking their third straight win, will be making their first trip to Mid-Pines this season for their first encounter with The Citadel. Next Tuesday the ’Cats travel to VPI. The Gobblers, on the strength of a comparative win over Wake Forest, have to be rated on par with the Wildcats.

In the News-Piedmont Relays at Furman a week ago, the ’Cats posted 26 points to finish fifth (ahead of Tennessee and South Carolina) in a field of 11 teams. Florida State took first place. Huie broke his own record in the pole vault with a 12 feet 6 inches jump and tied for first. Laughlin established a new Davidson College record and News-Piedmont Relay record with a distance of 44 feet 7 inches in the hop-step-jump. The High Point Relays, to be held next Saturday at High Point, have been rescheduled to Davidson.

In the meet yesterday, reliable speedster Ed Kizer took first in the 100-yard dash with a 10.1 time. Mike Laughlin was third. Kizer, Roger Beebe, Bobby Thompson and Chester Alexander posted a 3:29.9 to take the mile relay. The mile was won by David Gilmour — 4:41.6. Beebe and Alexander took second and third in the 440.

‘Cat Diamond Squad Plays Wake Tuesday

By JIM PRESSLY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's baseballers travel to Wake Forest next Tuesday to meet what Coach Stevens calls “an excellent team.” Sporting a fine won-loss record and carrying one top ACC hurler, Wake will be tough for the young ’Cats. However, it is doubtful whether their pitching ace, Bob Plemmons, will see action in this non-conference tilt.

Belmont Abbey played a single game with the Wildcats here today. John Huie and Bill Coffey took second places in the pole vault and the 880, respectively. Kizer posted a 22.0 time to place second in the 220. Andy Boggs won the discus with a heave of 124 feet 8 inches. Last Saturday's game against West Virginia saw Davidson's five-game winning streak smothered. The Mountaineers pounded Dee Green for ten hits, including a home run by Bill Smith, and two doubles. Laughlin claimed the hop-step-jump with a distance of 41 feet 8 inches.

Furman is here for a twin-bill Saturday, the 30th. On Furman, Coach Stevens commented, “They have a good team, better than last year, and will be tough.” Tom Shafer, West Virginia hurler, was very effective against the Wildcats, striking out 14 batters. He allowed four walks in the game, while scattering seven Davidson hits. “Thumper” Harris was the only 'Cat to garner more than one hit. First-sacker Harris had two singles in his five trips to the plate. Harry Cline's double was Davidson's only extra base blow. Coach Stevens has replaced Jerry Cole behind the plate with sophomore Harry Cline.

Host UNC Today

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

This afternoon the Davidson College tennis team played host to the strong North Carolina netters in an attempt to avenge an earlier 9-0 defeat at Chapel Hill on April 6. On Tuesday the Wildcats suffered a 7-2 setback at the hands of the Gobblers. The ’Cats should be highly favored in the match, after two consecutive victories over Furman, a team The Citadel edged by ½ point.

FURMAN FALTERS

In the two Furman matches, Davidson downed the Paladins at Greenville last Friday by the score of 14½-12½, and followed up the victory at Charlotte on Monday by whipping the visitors 17½-9½. In the match at Furman, which is a longer course than the Charlotte one, Sut Alexander’s even-par 72 paced the ’Cats to victory despite the fact that number one man Verner Stanley didn’t play.

WILDCATS’ BEST

Then, at Charlotte on Monday, Tom Johnson was medalist of the day as he stroked a two-under-par 68, the best score for the ’Cats thus far. Johnson, who has looked good in all previous appearances, has done consistently well for the squad this year, must have felt from the start that it was “his” day as he fired an eagle on the second hole. Verner Stanley and Eb LeMaster contributed to the win as both fired 71's. Coach Tom Scott stated that the play of LeMaster is “very pleasing since we're going to need a good performance from him in the future.”

WILDCAT OF WEEK

By CARL RUST
Davidsonian Sports Writer

THE DAVIDSONIAN takes great pride in naming Stuart Nickles its first “Wildcat of the Week.” Last Wednesday when Davidson made a clean sweep of the javelin throw — Stuart Nickles, Boggs and Jennings — Nickles’ throw of 196 feet was the best throw of any in the Southern Conference this year. Coach Whittle without hesitation called Stu's throw “the best throw of any in the Southern Conference this year.” Coach Whittle went on to say that Stu now averages over 170’ per throw and that if he can throw 196’ in the Southern Conference Meet he should take first place easily. Coach Whittle enthusiastically said, “Stuart is a very good performer and is one of our most consistent performers.”

Stu explained that the newly-developed Dick Held Javelin played an important part in his record-breaking toss. Stu stated that he got everything behind it.

PREP CAREER

Stu has been throwing the javelin since his sophomore year at Granby High School. Coach Whittle stated that Stu has been a very good performer and is one of our most consistent performers.

A LOOK AT... SPORTS

By Bill Godwin

What's Good For Newport...

Coach Charlie Driesell (see page one) comes to us with the highest of qualifications. He’s young, enthusiastic—and has coached two high school teams to 97 basketball victories in the last five years. The going has not always been easy, either. Driesell took over the reins of Newport News at a prime time; the team had won 21 straight. And it proceeded to rack up 36 more consecutive wins under Driesell until stopped in a game which ended in double overtime. But his first high school team—Granby—presented the coach with a wholly different situation, much like Davidson’s. Granby, the previous year 1954 while Driesell was in his senior year at Duke, had plunged to the bottom with a 4-17 record. Under Driesell’s direction the cagers made a comeback and went on to compile a two-year mark of 33 and 9. This is what we hope and feel he can do for the Wildcats. To be sure, Davidson doesn’t play in a school conference. It will take hard work—lots of it—but Driesell has already committed both himself and the team to long and rugged practice. He believes we need more scholarships, but stresses that wise employment of the present ones is more important. “Careful recruiting makes the difference,” he says. As a starting measure Driesell and Scott...have lopped off Louisville and Tennessee from the 1960-61 schedule to bring the ’Cats back to reality. The new coach will have the material to work with: Shinn, Markee, Bussell, Jarman, Millar, Harris, Nuckolls, Martin, Moore, Cannon, and Evans. The potential of next season’s squad speaks well for a winning season. But, judging from the past when such seasons were predicted in vain, we hope for an even break. Coaches Driesell and Hunt are both young and should coordinate successfully. So we listen when Driesell says Davidson “can win in the Southern Conference.”

It’s A Small World...

For Coach Scott, the appointment of Driesell represents a long-delayed triumph. As head coach of the North Carolina Tarheels back in the late 40’s, Scott talked with Driesell, then a high school senior, about enrolling at UNC to play basketball for him. Scott had him on the line for a while, but Duke offered Driesell a full scholarship, too good to turn down. “We weren't giving very many scholarships in the 40's,” said Scott. Driesell was picked this week from a list of more than 40 applicants, some of them head high school coaches in California, Missouri, Indiana, and Pennsylvania.

Coach Dole’s Loss...

Sophomore end John Packer will not play for the Wildcats this fall. He must undergo an operation to relieve a pinched nerve in his upper spine.

Boner Department...

Track star Shane Senile goofed last week. He was first against Furman. “He was first,” said Pete Whittle. And we retract.

Davidson is not a high school and Cole will be moved to the outfield to alternate with Cecil Holcomb in Cline’s old position. “Moose” Showalter may also see outfield action. The Frosh defeated South High 9-1 in their last game. Tom Hamilton started on the mound for the Wildkittens and allowed the only run in the first inning. Bill Jarman came in to pitch the last three innings for the Frosh. Davidson pounded South pitching for eleven hits. Hamilton and first-sacker Rick Lowery each had three, including a homer by both. This was the Freshman team’s initial win, following three losses.

Davidson's two victories were by its number 5 and 6 singles men as Jim Hamilton won by a margin of 6-3, 7-5, and Stephan Young edged his opponent 6-3, 6-4.

MIAMI AWES

Last Friday the Davidson netters were beaten by a Miami team that awed all who were on hand to see by its power and versatility. For the Hurricanes, this marked the 65th appearance on the courts without a defeat. Tuesday the Wildcat freshman tennis team will host Myers Park in a return engagement. The junior Wildcats have especially to be noted is the fine play of Bob Austell, Phil Johnson, and Alexander at the Southern Conference tournament in May. After North Carolina, the Davidson team will have only one more scheduled match with William and Mary at Williamsburg on May 4 before the Conference Meet there on May 5, 6, and 7.

TOURNEY HERE

Speaking of the tournament, Davidson will play host to the other Southern Conference members on May 3-4 at the Mid-Pines Course. Coach Scott indicated that the team has been pointing toward the tournament all season. Said Scott: “I scheduled a lot of tough teams so that we could be ready for the tournament, which is naturally the payoff.” When asked how he did it, Stu remarked modestly, “I was just plain lucky.” He called his toss “a throw of a lifetime,” and the I-F trophy. The SAE’s, far behind, sit in the second slot with 706 points. The third place KA's have 687 points. Intramural tennis opens next Tuesday with the doubles elimination. Fraternities must have their entries in Coach Whittle’s office by 3:30 p.m. Monday.

SOFTBALL RESULTS

In softball Tuesday, the ATO’s (ranked seventh in total points) hurled themselves to a 21-12 slam over the Phi Delts. Meanwhile, the Pi Kapps came up with a 23-13 victory over the Independents. The SAE’s mastered the Sig Eps 23-7, and the Sigma Chis bolted the KA’s 21-7. Rounding out the day, the Kappa Sigs beat the Pikas 14-10. Wednesday, the Sigma Nus eased past the Sig Eps in a tight game 17-16. Another close one saw the Fijis beat the Betas 13-11. The ATO’s took their second victory by setting back the KA’s 7-4. The SAE’s bowed to the Independents 9-7.

VOLLEYBALL LEADERS

Volleyball ended last week. The ATO’s led the round-ballers in point totals—160. Runners-up were the Phi Delts with 140 tallies. The SAE’s, the KA’s, and the Sigma Chis—60; the Sigma Nus—30. Handball point-totals were posted this week showing the Phi Delts—78; the SAE’s—66; the Betas—40; the Pi Kapps—35 and the ATO’s—55; the Phi Gams—50; the Pikas—45; the Kappa Sigs—58 points each. In handball: The Phi Delts—78; the SAE’s—66; the Betas—40; the Pi Kapps—35 and the Sigma Nus—30.

Softball Starts

By MEL McKENZIE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Intramural sports resumed Tuesday with softball. The Phi Delts hold strong in overall totals—867 points—with only softball and tennis standing between them and the I-F trophy. The SAE’s, far behind, sit in the second slot with 706 points. The third place KA's have 687 points. Intramural tennis opens next Tuesday with the doubles elimination. Fraternities must have their entries in Coach Whittle’s office by 3:30 p.m. Monday.

A new idea in smoking... Salem refreshes your taste with menthol! fresh rich tobacco taste most modern filter

Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

Smoking was never like this before! Salem refreshes your taste just as a glorious Spring morning refreshes you. To rich tobacco taste, Salem adds a surprise softness that gives smoking new ease and comfort. Yes, through Salem's pure-white, modern filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. Smoke refreshed... smoke Salem! Take a Puff... It’s Springtime