NEW VOL. XLVI SPORTS FEATURE: “WILDCAT OF THE WEEK” (See Page Three)

Shue Takes Up Green's Gavel, Installs New Council, Court

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 22,

Weekend Schedule

FRIDAY
2:00 P.M. golf—Furman—here.
2:00 P.M. tennis—U.N.C.—here
3:00 P.M. baseball—Belmont Abbey—here
7:30 P.M. Auditorium D Club sponsors Josh White in Chambers
9:00-1:00 Semi-formal dance—Johnston Gymnasium

SATURDAY
2:30 P.M. concert by Kai campus
8:00-12:00 Winding Septet—front informal dance—Johnston Gymnasium

The Davidsonian
‘The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

1960

Rhonnie Leonard
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Sigma Nu
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Boo Bargamin
Keren Spangler
Jackie Neely
Sigma Chi
Phi Gamma Delta
Phi Delta Theta
Cindy Morcock
Bonnie Remondelli

AN OPEN LETTER TO THE DATES (See Page Two)

NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE

White, Winding, Woody Furnish Entertainment For Frolics Fling

600 Dates Crowd Campus For Weekend

Spring Frolics gets off to a good, rousing start tonight with Josh White's concert in Chamber Auditorium. The guitarist and
folk singer is being presented by the D Club.

Fifteen members of the Student Council, and twelve Honor Court members were installed in a ceremony in Chapel this morning.
Dee Green, retiring Student Body president, gave a speech after which the oaths of office were administered. Green first gave
the oath of office to the new Student Body president, Henry Shue who in turn installed the other members of
the Student Council. Other officers are Jerry Bussell, first vice-president; George Trask, second vice-president; and Ken Kelley, secretary-treasurer. He then
gave the oath to Verner Stanley, president of the rising Senior Class; Ty Finch, vice-president; Ben Sparks, secretary-treasurer; Pete Wyrick,
Freshman adviser; and Representatives Jack Taylor and Hutton Barron. Jimmy Gee, president of the rising Junior Class, and Representatives Skeeter
Watson and John Packer were installed. Finally, the oath of office was given to Bill Wallace, president of the rising
Sophomore Class and Representative John Killian. The Honor Court was then installed. The Senior members are Jerry Cole, Scott Lacy,
Ed Kizer, Jim Anderson, Bob Denham, and Tom Hudgins; Junior members are Dave Gilmour, Graham Allison, Ed Grimsley and Harrison
Wellford; Sophomore members are Mike Owen and John Rogers.

The incoming Student Council had an unofficial meeting Monday and got off to a good start on their work. They
discussed the possibility of having a Student Body Assembly a couple of times a month.

The Davidsonian feels obligated to apologize to Student Body President Dee Green for a quote recorded out of context with
his original statements. The “Go to hell” quote appeared in an article which was printed on page one of last
week's newspaper. The editor regrets that the article in question was not checked before printing; the reporter apologizes for carelessness.

College Inaugurates New Lecture Series

A lecture series, which will bring distinguished academic figures to the campus, has been set up with $100,000 of the
Reynolds Foundation grant of $450,000. The program, named the Reynolds Lectures, will bring outstanding persons to the campus for a
period of two to seven days. The visitors will give lectures, hold seminars, meet with students and faculty, and visit
classes. From six to eight lecturers, chosen from a variety of areas, will visit the campus each year, beginning next
fall. They will represent fields of study offered at Davidson and others, such as geology, astronomy, and international relations. President
Martin has appointed a committee to administer the program and to arrange for the speakers. Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, Dean
of Faculty, will act as chairman of the committee, which is made up of Dr. W. P. Cumming, Dr. W.
O. Puckett, and Dr. Rhodes, who will join the faculty next year. Dean Johnston reported that from $4,000 to $4,500
would be available each year for the program, and that the lecturer would be on campus for not less than
two days. He concluded, “I think that it will be a fine thing for the students, and of interest both
in fields we now have work in and in others that we do not have work in.”

Livingston represented the opposition. Dave Robinson, past president of the Davidson YMCA acted as moderator. The discussion was opened with
each of the Smith students speaking on one of these three subjects: 1) Basic implications and background of the movement;
2) History of the movement; 3) Accomplishments and hopes of the movement. The sit-in movement in North Carolina began in
Greensboro earlier this year. It later spread to other parts of the South. After the Smith students presented their views,
the debate was opened to all members of the panel. The panel discussion was stopped after an hour.

Senior-Faculty Day has been scheduled on Saturday, May 28. Mr. John Horton, Acting Director of Alumni and Public Relations, stated
that reunions for all classes will be held on this day. A luncheon will be served to Alumni on Front
Campus at one p.m. The class of 1910 will have dinner that night in the College Union Ballroom, and the
Class of 1935 will hold a dinner at the Charlotte Country Club. Bobby Avinger, Vice-President of the Senior Class, stated
that tentative speakers have been chosen for the event.

Annual Release

Chris Bremer, editor of the Quips and Cranks, announced that the 1960 edition will be released May 20. This publication
is included in a student’s activity fee and there is no additional charge. Bremer made the following statement concerning this
year’s edition: “This edition contains no drastic changes over last year’s. New ideas have been added, and some old ones
discarded. The major change has been one of condensation. The primary purpose is to leave the students a written and
pictorial record of the past school year. However, although it is mainly for the students, it is organized so that
strangers of the college can see what the college is and what it stands for.”Here is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

In the Spring... Seniors Plan Class Graduation Festivities

The Senior Class voted last Friday to give outdoor lighting for the new Dana Science Building. These spotlights will be
similar to those in front of Chambers. Customary mock speeches Saturday. Charlie Reed will deliver the Valedictory and “Bobo” McEachern
will give the Salutatory. Bobby Livingston will present the Class History, and Frank Anderson will read the Class Poem. The
closing Oration will be delivered by Peter Sterling.

The Baccalaureate Service will be held Sunday night in the College Church. Dr. Fred R. Stair, '39, Pastor of Central
Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, will present the Baccalaureate Sermon. Graduation exercises will take place Monday morning, May 30. The Philanthropic
Literary Society has chosen David Edwards and John Hendry to serve as Marshals. Edwards, as Chief Marshal, will lead the
speaker to the stage and carry the historic silver-headed Philanthropic Society cane. The Eumenean Society has not yet elected its
two commencement marshals. Senior Class President Dave Warden commented that invitations have been ordered and that Mrs. R. N. Linker
is making a flag in the class colors, blue and white. This flag will be flown during all the commencement
activities.

The Spring Blood Drive is scheduled for April 25-26 at the gym. A free drill and PT cut will be
given to donors. In addition, the IFC is again awarding a plaque to the fraternity with the highest percentage contribution.
The independents are also eligible for this award.

Are Davidson's scholarships adequate for his purposes? “You never get enough scholarships. But success comes from the way you use
them.” A left-handed hook shot artist, determined that Davidson's basketball fortunes will change next winter. The Wildcats won only five
of 19 games this year, but Driesell served notice by telephone Tuesday that he does not intend to coach a
loser. “We can win in the Southern Conference,” he said.

Driesell’s high school coaching record is impressive. After graduation from Duke in 1954, he produced a 33-9 record in two
years at Granby High School of Norfolk, Va. His three-year stint with Newport News was good for 64 wins and
only six losses. The 1959 team won every game—25—and took the state championship.

Driesell is married and has a four-year-old daughter. After the concert, the Inter-fraternity Council will sponsor a semi-formal dance in
the Johnston Gymnasium which will be held from 9 until one o'clock. Don Coffey, chairman of the Decorations Committee, has
decorated the gym in a “Southern Plantation” motif. Music will be furnished by Woody Herman, whose band has been cited
by “Parade” and “Time” for “bringing back dancing.” At 11 p.m. the IFC representatives, the fraternity presidents, and their dates
will be presented in a figure. After the IFC-sponsored dance, merrymaking will continue at fraternity-sponsored after-dance parties.

Saturday, at 2:30 p.m. trombonist Kai Winding and his Septet will present an informal concert. If the weather permits, this
concert will be held outside between Philanthropic and Eumenean Halls. Winding has played under such outstanding bandleaders as Benny Goodman
and Stan Kenton. Winding’s group will also furnish music for an informal dance on Saturday night at which Bermuda shorts
or other casual clothes will be in order. The dance will be held from 8 till 12 in the gym.
Concluding the weekend with a “good rocking” finish will be such groups as the “Hot-Nuts,” the “Tams,” the “Jetty Jumpers,”
the “Pedros,” and the “Delacados” furnishing music at fraternity afterparties, which will last until early morning.

Highlighting the weekend was the arrival of close to 600 girls from all over the Southeast for the Frolics. Mrs.
Moore, supervisor of dormitories, said that the girls were being housed in Payne House, the Infirmary, Belk Dormitory, and the
Guest House, as well as in private homes in town. Commenting on the weekend, IFC president Ward McKeithen said, “The
combination of the spring weather and attractive dates should make this the best weekend so far. Also, we are happy
to have all visitors and prospective Davidson students who are on campus this weekend.”

Enthusiasm and ability characterize Davidson’s new head basketball coach—The 31-year-old coach at Newport News, Va., High School was named Monday
to succeed Dr. Tom Scott. “We are very fortunate to get such an outstanding high school coach with proven ability,”
said Scott. Assistant basketball coach Joe Hunt remains in his same capacity. This is Driesell’s first college position, but he
feels it will not be much different from high school coaching. “The main difference,” he said, “will be the recruiting.”
President Martin spoke highly this week of Driesell, who is determined that Davidson's basketball fortunes will change next winter. The
Wildcats won only five of 19 games this year, but Driesell served notice by telephone Tuesday that he does not
intend to coach a loser. “We can win in the Southern Conference,” he said.

Driesell’s high school coaching record is impressive. After graduation from Duke in 1954, he produced a 33-9 record in two
years at Granby High School of Norfolk, Va. His three-year stint with Newport News was good for 64 wins and
only six losses. The 1959 team won every game—25—and took the state championship.

Driesell is married and has a four-year-old daughter. “I'm looking forward to working with Hunt.”

Military Fraternity Taps 18 Members

Scabbard and Blade, national military fraternity, has tapped Lt. Colonel Berle Hufford as a candidate for membership. The ceremony took
place during drill last Tuesday. Colonel Hufford is current MSIV Instructor and Commandant of Cadets. In addition to Colonel Hufford,
the society tapped seventeen MSIII Cadets. Among these were Bynum, Bill Cannon, Jerry Cole, Dick Dalton, Bob Deane, and Ed
Houser, George Blalock, Harold Bill Juvis, Completing the list are John Keiter, Ed Kiser, Scott Lacy, Loy McKeithen, Bob L.
Moore, Tom Parker, Charlie Rowe, and Bill Rustin. Butch Rogers, The society also tapped two MSIV Cadets. They were John
Glenn and Richmond Rucker.
