FIRST-DAY RESULTS FROM NET TOURNEY - (See Page Three)

VOL. XLVI

Decisive Faculty Vote Dooms Freshman Rush And Initiation

Faculty Soph Rush Ruling Takes Many By Surprise

“It shocked me,” said Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, chairman of the Faculty Fraternity Committee, regarding Tuesday's action by the faculty forbidding freshman rushing, pledging, and initiation. In interviews with several members of the faculty and student body, THE DAVIDSONIAN found this to be the common reaction. Jerry Cole, newly-elected president of the Interfraternity Council, expressed general student surprise that “the issue was brought up.”

HAS BEEN DEBATED

Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz pointed out, however, that “the motion for sophomore rush was not ‘sprung’ on the faculty or the student body. The question has been debated for months among fraternity men, independents, and faculty members. The motion was not made earlier because the Fraternity Committee of the faculty was studying the question.” President D. Grier Martin made it clear that “the faculty has the right and responsibility to intervene in any student affairs. The fraternity system has been a faculty matter since it was established here.” Dr. Goodykoontz praised the faculty for “showing the courage of their convictions last Tuesday.”

Next year's Student Council President Henry Shue saw his council's job as “coordinating the activities of the IFC, the IMAC, the Freshman Council, the YMCA, the Union, and others in preparing for the changeover to the new system.” Said Cole regarding the task of next year’s IFC: “The IFC is a service organization, desiring to fulfill the intent of the fraternities. If fraternities are as much opposed to sophomore rush as they appear at present, the way to give their opposition influence is through appeals to the faculty, and through making next year a model fraternity year.” He continued, “The faculty has not made known to the IFC what regulations it expects us to set up in regard to 1961 sophomore rush, but when the occasion arises the IFC will do all within its power to make the new system as attractive to the fraternities as possible.”

CHANNELS OPEN

Dr. Martin, while citing the faculty vote as decisive, stated: “All channels are open from students to faculty on the issue. The matter could be brought up again. It might be most effective if, next year, fraternities try to work out ways of meeting objections to the present system.” Dr. Pietenpol commented on the original committee report which was upset by the faculty vote. “Many of us on the committee at first felt inclined to sophomore rush. But data we collected led us to believe unanimously that sophomore rush was inadvisable.” Dr. W. G. McGavock, also on the Fraternity Committee and former chairman, said concerning the recommendation, “On the basis of study we were not sure that a change would bring sufficient good to warrant all the changes necessary. But I will do all I can to implement the faculty decision. I believe there is a good chance that sophomore rush will work.”

Gov. Hodges Will Address Commencement Assembly

By WARREN COLLINS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Davidson College graduating class of 1960 will be addressed at its Commencement Exercises by the Honorable Luther Hartwell Hodges, Governor of North Carolina. Governor Hodges will complete this year the better part of two terms as chief executive of the state of North Carolina. Hodges came into politics from the world of business and has been mentioned as a candidate for the Democratic Vice-Presidential nomination.

Graduation Weekend itself will formally begin on Saturday morning, May 28, 1960, with the commissioning of ROTC graduates. The ceremony will feature an address by Major General Brook Allen, ‘33, Commanding General of Bolling Air Force Base in Washington, D. C. Music for the ceremony will be furnished by the 440th Army Band from Fort Bragg, N. C. Senior ROTC cadets will receive commissions in the US Army and (Continued On Page Four)

Newly-appointed Court of Control Judge Jim Bootle and

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1960

PROFESSOR FRENCH INITIATES GUEST COLUMN (See Page Two)

NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

(Martin: Little Chance Of Reversing Decision

By TOMMY COLVIN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Last Tuesday the faculty overturned the recommendation of its fraternity committee by ruling that sophomore rushing be instituted in the fall of 1961. A number of students have voiced their confidence that the faculty vote came as a surprise to all. The faculty fraternity committee had recommended that freshman rushing be continued, but the faculty vote has ranged from spirited approval to angered disgust.

Student Council President Henry Shue plans several changes in the program of next year’s Court of Control. Bootle Heads Court, Requests Student Aid

Bill Shinn will serve as Recorder, while Seniors Tom Parker and Claude Finney, Juniors Clay Atkins and Cecil Holcomb, and Sophomores Joe Angsley and Jim Hendrix complete the membership of the court. As a result of the April 25 ruling of the Student Council, the Court’s period of existence was shortened to end within the week of Homecoming. Friday chapels were eliminated except for a reading of a list of those charged. For the Freshman “the Court will be a form of discipline,” explained Bootle. “We want to remove any cockiness brought from high school. This cockiness is dangerous to the individual since others will recognize it. Actually, the Court is beneficial to only a small portion of the class; but in its aiding one or two individuals, it has served its purpose. It’s for those guys who have never been subject to discipline.”

“I plan to emphasize its constructive part,” Bootle continued. “I’m somewhat distressed about the Court's elimination from chapel. More cooperation from the upperclassmen is needed, and chapel without disorder drums up the interest and enthusiasm needed for them to turn in the offenders. I wish the Council would reconsider this. I don’t want the actions of the Court to be so dry that nobody knows anything about what we're doing.” Bootle went on to explain that he would like a little more freedom, “if it fails, we can go to the Council’s system.” He plans to ask the Council to give him power to campus extreme cases for a weekend. “I've talked to several individuals about this. We would use discretion, of course, but we need to let them know we have this power. This would be used only in cases of extreme sassiness as we have experienced before. I plan to present this idea to the Council at itsNext Meeting.” YMCA Completes New Interest Drive

The YMCA completed its Interest Drive on Monday night. Since the YMCA will have no formal membership in 1960-61, the Interest Drive is replacing the Membership Drive. Bob (R. Henry) Moore, Y vice-president, headed the Interest Drive. On Tuesday night the interests of the students were tabulated and each area chairman made a list of students interested in working in his area. The area chairmen have already begun contacting men to work in their areas, but the major portion of the contact work will take place during the first week of school in the fall.

In commenting on the drive, Moore stated, “Three hundred and seven returning upperclassmen have indicated an interest in working in Y-sponsored activities next year. This is approximately 45 percent of the returning three classes.”

“Many of the professors that voted for the sophomore rush will not be here next year, so we should have no trouble changing the ruling next year,” one student maintained. When quizzed by THE DAVIDSONIAN, Professors Trakes and Goodykoontz stated that reversal is not at all probable. “The vote was quite decisive, and the backing will not be weakened to any great extent by the change in faculty personnel next year,” they maintained.

The fraternity committee presented a report which covered three areas. The first area concerned the fraternity rushing system. The committee, which has held a number of meetings during the past couple of months to determine its recommendation, presented a poll it had taken.

Stuart's Poems Cop Vereen Bell Prize

Dabney Stuart, a senior English honors student, received the Vereen Bell Prize in chapel this morning for a collection of poems, “A Free Man’s Worship.” The award of $75 was presented by W. M. Meredith of the Breadloaf School of Creative Writing, on campus for the Sigma Upsilon writers’ conference. Ed Spivey, also in senior English honors, received honorable mention for a short story and a two-act play. The prize is given annually in memory of Vereen Bell, a Davidson graduate killed in World War II.

YMCA Asks Council To Finance Handbook

Jimmy Richardson, President of the YMCA, appeared before the Student Council Monday night to present a proposal that the Student Council take over the publication of the Wildcat Handbook. “The YMCA is in the publishing business,” Richardson said, “I'd like to get us out of it.”

“The cost of publishing the Wildcat Handbook varies from year to year. With the resetting of type, it costs more to print it. We spent approximately $960 on it, and of this we get back about $400, so it costs the Y about $500 to publish the Handbook. If it were published by the Student Council, the funds could come out of the Student Activities fee.”

The Student Council moved to recommend to President Martin that the Administration provide funds to publish the Wildcat Handbook, and that the editing and publishing of the Wildcat Handbook become a part of the Publication Board, but that the Student Council select the editor of the Handbook.

The editors of Quips and Cranks, THE DAVIDSONIAN, and Omicron Delta Kappa national leadership fraternity, tapped one senior and six juniors in chapel last Tuesday. The senior is Fred Lane. The juniors are Jim Anderson, Jerry Cole, Tom Hudgins, Scott Lacy, B. Milner, Henry Shue, and Verner Stanley.

Anderson, a Phi Beta Kappa member, is from Alexandria, Virginia. He belongs to Philanthropic Literary Society and is presently leading his class scholastically. Anderson is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Cole, new president of the IFC, is from Yanceyville. He was a member of the Honor Court this past year and is a letterman in baseball. He belongs to the Board of Directors of the Business Economics Association and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Hudgins, a letterman on the varsity football team, is from Greenville, South Carolina. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Lacy, new Chairman of the Honor Court, is from Washington, D.C. He is a letterman on the swimming team and is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Lane, a member of the Student Council, is from Winston-Salem, North Carolina. He is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta, Delta Phi Alpha, Scabbard and Blade, and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He is also a member of Phi Beta Kappa. Millner, editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, is from Concord, North Carolina. He has also served as sports editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Shue, president of the student body, is from Staunton, Virginia. He is vice-president of Westminster Fellowship and belongs to Eumenian Literary Society. Stanley, a letterman on the golf team, is from Charlotte, North Carolina. He is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and was secretary-treasurer of the student body his sophomore year.

The committee unanimously recommended that the present rushing system be retained because: 1) there is no established trend toward sophomore rushing, and 2) the Davidson fraternity chapters oppose any change. Professor William F. Goodykoontz offered the sophomore plan as a substitute motion. Discussion followed for approximately thirty minutes before the question was called. THE DAVIDSONIAN has been unable to determine definitely the exact numerical vote. Reports vary from thirty to thirty-nine in favor and eighteen to twenty opposed. This is one of the few times a faculty committee’s recommendation has been rejected. Following the vote, Professor Goodykoontz stated that he would not be opposed to enforcement being delayed until the fall of 1961. Dr. Labban made this motion, which carried with only one dissenting vote.

The other two areas on which the fraternity committee reported were hazing and after-dance parties. Regarding hazing, the committee announced that the IFC was planning “to restrict hazing activities in the future.” On the problem of after-dance parties, the committee stated that it would entertain any suggestions that other faculty members might have.

Discussion of sophomore rushing began last November, but it did not reach campus-wide proportions until February. Early this semester a number of fraternity men went inactive, causing a flurry of student comment. Dave Warden, a senior inactive, aroused extensive interest and criticism by vigorously attacking the present fraternity setup. He and several independents appeared before the faculty fraternity committee, proposing sophomore rushing as a solution to current fraternity shortcomings. Shortly thereafter, five fraternity men went before the same committee with a similar request. These same five students distributed a five-page mimeographed statement to faculty members and to the various fraternity houses. For several weeks, sophomore rush was in the center of student discussions. The issue soon slipped from the students’ minds and has not been discussed by the students during the past month. Hence the student surprise over the ruling.

ODK Taps One Senior, Seven Juniors

The juniors invited to join ODK are Jim Anderson, Jerry Cole, Tom Hudgins, Scott Lacy, B. Milner, Henry Shue, and Verner Stanley.