FC Approves ’60 Greek Week Rulings

BY BOB MOORE
Davidsonian Managing Editor

At its regular Monday night meeting, the Interfraternity Council passed the following rulings which pertain to any fraternity of the college:

GREEK WEEK RULES

Greek Week will begin at 6:00 p.m., Monday, March 14, and end 12:00 midnight, Saturday, March 19. Each fraternity will participate in at least one constructive project. All practices shall be consistent with the Greek Week regulations as stated below and shall be conducted in accordance with the ruling of the national fraternity rulings of each local chapter.

No Greek Week activities will begin until 7:00 a.m. of the college of fraternity is prohibited. The following are prohibited: road trips, egg throwing, forced eating, mud wallows, croaker sack wearing (any required apparel must be approved by the IFC), excessive calisthenics, and excessive drilling, use of brick or rock sacks.

Violations of the above rules shall be reported to the IFC. Fines ranging up to $100.00, depending on the seriousness of the offense, will be imposed on any fraternity guilty of violating any of these regulations.

PLEDGE SKIT

There will be a pledge class skit night on Thursday, March 17, at 6:00 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. Each pledge class must submit a written script of its intended skit to the IFC by any day during this week. Any pre-initiation practice prior to or during Greek Week which incurs physical harm, interruption of regular classes, personal humiliation or punishment (either private or public), or any other generally distasteful practice which discredits not only a single fraternity but the fraternity system as a whole, is prohibited. The following outline of all Greek Week activities is to be submitted by March 7 for approval.

The fraternity skit night will be open to the public. The time limit for each pledge class skit will be between five and ten minutes.

The banquet is designed specifically for Greek Week and will be held in the old dining hall of Chambers. The fraternity officer will address the fraternity pledge classes, presidents, chairmen, and the Faculty-Student Committee on Thursday afternoon.

McKEITHEN COMMENTS

IFC President Ward McKeithen stated, “These regulations shall govern fraternity pledge class activities during Greek Week, and any fraternity guilty of violating any of these regulations shall be subject to fine. The IFC strongly desires activities in keeping with the Greek Week spirit and, unlike in the past, intends to enforce all regulations.”

President McKeithen stated, “The IFC Greek Week regulations have been set up in the light of the belief that this is a week designed to promote pledge class unity. We also believe that the relationship between the pledge classes and their respective fraternities can be strengthened through collective activities of a constructive nature.”

Wildcat Club Prexy Defends Davidson Athletic Program

BY B. MILLNER
Davidsonian Sports Editor

(Editor’s Note: This article is the second in a series of four investigating the relationship between subsidized athletics and the academic program.)

Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow, ’16, is a prominent Charlotte surgeon, vice president of the Board of Trustees, and a member of the trustee Executive Council. He is a representative on the college Athletic Council, president of the Wildcat Club, and a staunch—and vocal—supporter of athletics at Davidson College. In a DAVIDSONIAN interview last week, Dr. Sparrow willingly defended the athletic program and its place at Davidson.

Q. Are you satisfied with the present athletic program at Davidson College?
A. Yes and no. I don’t think you can answer that question in just one way. I was not satisfied with the results we got in football and basketball. On the other hand, as a whole I think that Davidson has worked out a very sensible athletic program.

Q. Can you justify a subsidized athletic program on a liberal arts campus?
A. Unhesitatingly yes. Why not? Many a boy with good grades and athletic ability needs to get an education. That boy’s got a distinct asset in his athletic ability. Why shouldn't he be allowed to use it to help him get an education? Dr. Sparrow also maintained that athletics play an important part in a liberal arts education, commenting that “everything you get out of going to college isn’t going to come from between the pages of a book.”

Q. Would you favor an increase or decrease in athletic scholarships?
A. I would definitely favor an increase if it were financially feasible. At the present, I do not think that it is financially feasible; therefore, we're just going to have to go on the present outlay of alumni gifts. We give as many scholarships as we can under the system and unless we get more money, we can’t increase athletic aid.

Q. Would you be in favor of resigning from the Southern Conference?
A. I certainly would not. That would be a very bad move for Davidson to make. It would be quitting and I can’t conceive of Davidson just giving up and admitting we can’t take it. And if we did get out, who would we play? Lenoir Rhyne? Eastern Carolina? Wofford? Why they'd rip us apart. They can hold their own with most of the Southern Conference teams as it is. Getting out of the conference isn’t going to solve a thing.

Q. Would you be in favor of doing away with football, or in allocating the football scholarships to basketball and the minor sports?
A. I would personally be very much opposed to Davidson giving up football. My own feeling is that the knowledge of football is a valuable part of the college experience.

Great Issues Series Slates Summit Discussion In April

By ZACH SMITH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Great Issues Committee this week announced as its program for this semester a discussion on the summit conference scheduled for May. The main program is planned for April 13 and two other coinciding programs will be held the same week.

Dr. Paul Marrotte, chairman of the Great Issues Committee, said today that three of the positions on the panel which will lead the discussion have been definitely filled. The Great Issues Committee, composed of students and faculty, was organized last year. It has previously sponsored a Great Issues in Economics program.

The United States Department of State has agreed to send a representative to explain the stand the United States will take on basic issues at the conference. He will also discuss the aims of American policy at the summit. The State Department representative has not yet been named.

Dr. John Snell of Tulane University, an authority on German affairs, will present the point of view of both East and West Germany. He will place particular emphasis on German reunification and the attitudes of all Germany on this question.

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of the Board of Trustees, is shown answering questions at last Wednesday's Westminster Fellowship meeting. (Photo by Well)

Faculty Will Initiate Mobile Isotope Lab

The wing of the Davidson faculty concerned with science will host the Oak Ridge Mobile Radioisotope Laboratory in an effort to create a greater interest in atomic science. The date is May 9-20. During this period, a well-rounded series of laboratory experiments and lectures will be conducted.

On Monday, January 18, 1960, I ventured into Charlotte to visit the funeral of Daddy Grace, the famed Negro religious leader who had died the previous week. When I arrived (2:30 p.m.) there was only a moderate crowd which was very well behaved. While I was there, I only encountered one show of violent emotion. Charlie Rose, a fraternity brother who shares my interest in writing, had just begun an interview with a member of the “Just in Time Nurse Corps,” when a short Negro woman stepped forward with her young child.She complained loudly that she had just been thrown out of the House of Prayer, evidently for creating a disturbance. “I've been in there all day,” she insisted, as Charlie and I tried to avoid conversation with her. Her eyes were very red, obviously from crying. After barging into a picture Charlie was taking, declaring that she deserved to be in a picture because of her loyalty to “Sweet Daddy,” she dashed over to me, threw her arms around me, and began to cry. Needless to say, I felt somewhat strange. 

A short while later, Charlie and I were standing in a corner of the House of Prayer in the midst of an interview with Elder Wynn of Norfolk. I had read that Daddy Grace had used a Dixieland band in his worship services. I inquired why this music was used. “Daddy Grace brought us life,” Elder Wynn replied. “Music is essential to life. It makes us live longer. Moreover, it relieves us of sin. David used music to pull evil from Saul. And look at Psalms 149 and 150 — both about praising God with music. And God promised joy. Look at Isaiah 57 and the 100th Psalm. Music brings us joy and takes the burden from our hearts.” 

Elder Wynn returned his attention to the gospel music then being played, “Even though Daddy Grace is dead, the music isn’t mournful. Instead, it’s joyful. We don’t sing dead songs.” After a moment’s consideration, I had to admit that he was right. A young Negro girl, backed by about eight other Negro youths, was singing a joyful rendition of “I've Got Daddy and That's Enough.” Elder Wynn, noticing my surprise at the words of the song, launched into a lengthy apology about the role of Daddy Grace. He emphasized the fact that the followers were not interested in Daddy Grace as a person, but rather in the message of Christ which he brought them. “Daddy Grace is like a can of beans,” he explained. “When you go to a grocery store, you have to first honor the can to get at the beans. But we are not interested in the can. We are really interested in the ‘inner man.’”

I soon changed the topic, asking if Daddy Grace planned to return to earth. “No. The only thing he taught us was to prepare for the coming of Christ.” At this point, our conversation was interrupted by an elderly colored woman. She glared at Elder Wynn and demanded to know if he was an official in the House of Prayer. When he replied that he was the elder from Norfolk, she turned to Charlie and me. “I don't want you to give any false reports about Daddy Grace. This man doesn’t know anything about this House, and you'd better talk to one of our elders. I don’t want you giving any false reports.” 

Charlie and I took this opportunity to excuse ourselves, thanking Elder Wynn for his cooperation. As we were departing, he shouted us an invitation to visit him in Norfolk so that we could see the House of Prayer there. Maybe we will.

Green twice voted to make a tie and silenced the protests by remarking, “I voted.” No action was taken on any of these matters. Nine members were present at the opening of the meeting, which did not constitute a quorum. Nevertheless, the council proceeded with its business. The council appointed one member and an alternate to the elections committee from each fraternity. The same system was applied to the independents, until Secretary D. G. Martin reminded the council that four independents were to be chosen.

The Student Council met Monday night to appoint the Elections Committee and to discuss several other issues, including liberalization of the permanent expulsion rule and after-dance parties. Concerning the liberalization of the permanent expulsion rule, the council voted unanimously to write down the new rule. The main problems to be resolved were pointed out, but no committees were appointed and no further action was taken.

The Great Issues Committee has also invited the British Embassy to participate in the program, but no reply has been received from them yet. Dr. Marrotte is optimistic that the British will be represented. He feels that they are probably working out plans for the visit before replying. Interest has also been displayed in obtaining an authority on Russian affairs for the discussion. The program as planned by the committee will consist of questions being directed to the panel of experts. It is hoped that these questions will then lead into general discussions of various aspects of the summit conference.

The Sullins College Choir and the Davidson College Male Chorus will present a combined concert on Tuesday, February 23, at 8:15 p.m. in the Chambers Auditorium. The same concert will be given at Sullins on February 26. The combined chorus will present a sacred program, including Schubert’s “Mass in G,” Cesar Franck’s “150th Psalm,” and a setting of “Once to Every Man and Nation.” “Koopie” Ku, soprano, and “Boogie” Kwon, baritone, will be soloists. The Sullins all-girl choir from Bristol, Virginia, has made several appearances on the Davidson campus. They sang here last spring in a Vesper service. The Sullins Choir alone will also sing two groups of selections, including the “Gloria” from Mozart’s “Twelfth Mass” and “Sheep May Safely Graze” by Bach. Donald B. Plott will lead the Male Chorus in a group of numbers by Leisring, Vaughn-Williams, Schubert, and Carissimi. A reception for the Sullins girls will be held in the Union ballroom following the concert.

The night before the Great Issues program, Hubert Alyea, a noted physicist, will speak here on nuclear physics. He will primarily discuss atomic and hydrogen energy, its military and peaceful uses, and the implications of these uses. His program will serve as an introduction for the Great Issues discussion. The ban on nuclear weapons will be a major issue at the summit conference. William Courtenay, a British war correspondent, will speak in chapel the morning after the Great Issues program. His talk will be focused on the general reactions in Europe to issues which are to be discussed at the conference.

The only complaint about Davidson students’ activities came Friday afternoon, when Dean Bailey called Green. Bailey said the state police had reported eighty Davidson students were drunk and dancing in the road in front of Hattie’s. It turned out that there had been an accident on the highway, and the customers at Hattie’s had come out to watch the excitement. Rumors of a car and room check for liquor were discounted by Green. Questions were asked about snowball vandalism, the interpretation of the gambling rule, rooms for alumni in Belk Dormitory at Homecoming, and the possibility of second-semester rush. No action was taken on any of these matters.

Halfway through the election, councilman Tom Parker arrived late and a quorum was present. Appointed to the elections committee were Pete Kellogg, Billy Davis, Julian Pleasants, Scott Puckett, Smitty Smith, Tom Ridenhour, John Stone, Stuart Nickels, Bob Jones, Kay Kilpatrick, Lawrence Moore, and Frank Nye. Leslie Davis, Walter Clark, Ed Spivey, and Bill Ekbert were chosen from the independents. Throughout the election, there was discussion by the council members as to whether the president could vote to make a tie. When the parliamentarian was asked, he replied that he didn’t know. The DAVIDSONIAN reporter was consulted, but no one could resolve the issue.

An interior view of the Oak Ridge Mobile Radioisotope Laboratory, which will visit the campus May 9-20, under the auspices of the Physics Department.