PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fraternities Choose 1960-61 Officers

Nine of the twelve social fraternities at Davidson have elected officers for the coming year, or semester, depending on the terms of office prescribed by the various fraternity constitutions. Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Phi, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon had not yet chosen leaders at the time of DAVIDSONIAN publication. Each of these organizations plans to elect officers within the next two weeks. The officers are as follows:

ALPHA TAU OMEGA
President: George Gabel
Vice President: Tom Mainor
Secretary: Steve Maxwell
Treasurer: Jack Hardman
IFC Representative: Bob Moore

BETA THETA PI
President: Bill Deane
Vice President: Loy McKeithen
Recording Secretary: Bob Winn
Treasurer: Dick Dalton
IFC Representative: Bob Waugh

KAPPA ALPHA
President: Bob Green
Vice President: Jim Allen
Secretary: Jim Richardson
Treasurer: Bill Gayle
IFC Representative: Skeeter Watson

PHI DELTA THETA
President: Bill Shinn
Vice President: Ben Sparks
Secretary: Andy Blake
Treasurer: Bob Denham
IFC Representative: Jim Bootle

PHI GAMMA DELTA
President: Bob Thompson
Recording Secretary: Sanders Dallas
Treasurer: Roy Stamey
IFC Representative: Dave Wilson

PI KAPPA ALPHA
President: Nick Ivanoff
Vice President: Ray Thomas
Secretary: Rich Jensen
Treasurer: Jerry Vaughn
IFC Representative: Jim Anderson

SIGMA CHI
President: Spiro Macris
Vice President: Finley Holmes
Secretary: James Davis
Treasurer: Hutton Barron
IFC Representative: George Kirkpatrick

SIGMA NU
President: Frank Mansell
Vice President: Louis Parker
Secretary: Richard Lilly
Treasurer: Art Toole
IFC Representative: Bob Phillips

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
President: Roger Dewhurst
Vice President: Ken Moore
Secretary: John Goodmen
Treasurer: Ed Hall
IFC Representative: Quinton Cooke

Shue Takes Up Green's Gavel
(Continued From Page One)

to a Guidance Council with some of the same functions as the recent Court of Control except that it will try to aid those freshmen having a hard time as well as keeping the “wise guys” in line. The Administration feels it is not accomplishing enough to warrant its continuance. The Student Council requested that anyone interested in being a Cheerleader give his name to any member of the Student Council.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will have open house for the student body after vespers Sunday night:
Bryan
MacQueen
Sailstad
Calhoun
McGill
Thompson
Causey
Mebane
Trakas
Fulcher
Mitchell
Tyson
Goodykoontz
Reid
White
Houchens

Art Program Stresses Individual Development
By D. G. MARTIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Few Davidson students know that the first floor of Philanthropic Hall houses a bustling art studio. It's all part of Davidson’s growing art program. Inside Phi Hall, several students seemed very intent on their pictures. Every now and then one of them would use his hand or a rag to manipulate some paint on his canvas. In another room, other boys were making quick sketches and drawing with pencils and crayons. Pupils were running back and forth between the two rooms. Each of them had a brush, a pencil, a tube of paint, or some other artist’s tool.

DOUG HOUCHENS TEACHES

Davidson's only art professor, Doug Houchens, explained that this was the Basic Studio class. “It is part of Davidson's art program which also includes an art history course and an advanced studio course in graphics.” This program has developed in the last few years from one art course which was a combination of art history and studio. “A lot of people took it, but they didn't learn much about art history or art technique. So we split up the courses,” said Houchens. “Ever since then the studio class has been small, but steadily growing. I'm not sure why more people don’t take studio. There’s not much time for it, I know. And then, too, anybody who is really interested in art wouldn't come to Davidson because we have such a small department here.”

GRADES AND ENROLLMENT

Houchens stopped and pondered for a long time and then said, “But, I think that it's more than that. Davidson has a fine academic rating which calls for competition among students. This results in high grade consciousness. Many boys with high averages might be afraid to risk their high standing on an ungraded course. But that’s part of what we try to overcome,” said Houchens. “Studio is a very difficult thing to grade. I try to consider the student’s progress more than his native ability when formulating his grade. Of course, there has to be some academic work, and I give tests on some of the basic information about design, color, paint, and so forth, that the students should assimilate.”

INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT

“Teaching studio centers as much as possible around the individual, without sacrificing basic things that the entire class should know and do. Needs of the individual are paramount. Also, in the plans for the future, there is a course in contemporary art. This program has developed in the last few years from one art course which was a combination of art history and studio. “A lot of people took it, but they didn't learn much about art history or art technique. So we split up the courses,” said Houchens. “Ever since then the studio class has been small, but steadily growing. I'm not sure why more people don’t take studio. There’s not much time for it, I know. And then, too, anybody who is really interested in art wouldn't come to Davidson because we have such a small department here.”

Houchens stopped and pondered for a long time and then said, “But, I think that it's more than that. Davidson has a fine academic rating which calls for competition among students. This results in high grade consciousness. Many boys with high averages might be afraid to risk their high standing on an ungraded course. But that’s part of what we try to overcome,” said Houchens. “Studio is a very difficult thing to grade. I try to consider the student’s progress more than his native ability when formulating his grade. Of course, there has to be some academic work, and I give tests on some of the basic information about design, color, paint, and so forth, that the students should assimilate.”

INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT

“Teaching studio centers as much as possible around the individual, without sacrificing basic things that the entire class should know and do. Needs of the individual are paramount. Also, in the plans for the future, there is a course in contemporary art. This program has developed in the last few years from one art course which was a combination of art history and studio. “A lot of people took it, but they didn't learn much about art history or art technique. So we split up the courses,” said Houchens. “Ever since then the studio class has been small, but steadily growing. I'm not sure why more people don’t take studio. There’s not much time for it, I know. And then, too, anybody who is really interested in art wouldn't come to Davidson because we have such a small department here.”

Houchens stopped and pondered for a long time and then said, “But, I think that it's more than that. Davidson has a fine academic rating which calls for competition among students. This results in high grade consciousness. Many boys with high averages might be afraid to risk their high standing on an ungraded course. But that’s part of what we try to overcome,” said Houchens. “Studio is a very difficult thing to grade. I try to consider the student’s progress more than his native ability when formulating his grade. Of course, there has to be some academic work, and I give tests on some of the basic information about design, color, paint, and so forth, that the students should assimilate.”

INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT

“Teaching studio centers as much as possible around the individual, without sacrificing basic things that the entire class should know and do. Needs of the individual are paramount. Also, in the plans for the future, there is a course in contemporary art. This program has developed in the last few years from one art course which was a combination of art history and studio. “A lot of people took it, but they didn't learn much about art history or art technique. So we split up the courses,” said Houchens. “Ever since then the studio class has been small, but steadily growing. I'm not sure why more people don’t take studio. There’s not much time for it, I know. And then, too, anybody who is really interested in art wouldn't come to Davidson because we have such a small department here.”

Houchens stopped and pondered for a long time and then said, “But, I think that it's more than that. Davidson has a fine academic rating which calls for competition among students. This results in high grade consciousness. Many boys with high averages might be afraid to risk their high standing on an ungraded course. But that’s part of what we try to overcome,” said Houchens. “Studio is a very difficult thing to grade. I try to consider the student’s progress more than his native ability when formulating his grade. Of course, there has to be some academic work, and I give tests on some of the basic information about design, color, paint, and so forth, that the students should assimilate.”

INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT

“Teaching studio centers as much as possible around the individual, without sacrificing basic things that the entire class should know and do. Needs of the individual are paramount. Also, in the plans for the future, there is a course in contemporary art. This program has developed in the last few years from one art course which was a combination of art history and studio. “A lot of people took it, but they didn't learn much about art history or art technique. So we split up the courses,” said Houchens. “Ever since then the studio class has been small, but steadily growing. I'm not sure why more people don’t take studio. There’s not much time for it, I know. And then, too, anybody who is really interested in art wouldn't come to Davidson because we have such a small department here.”

Houchens stopped and pondered for a long time and then said, “But, I think that it's more than that. Davidson has a fine academic rating which calls for competition among students. This results in high grade consciousness. Many boys with high averages might be afraid to risk their high standing on an ungraded course. But that’s part of what we try to overcome,” said Houchens. “Studio is a very difficult thing to grade. I try to consider the student’s progress more than his native ability when formulating his grade. Of course, there has to be some academic work, and I give tests on some of the basic information about design, color, paint, and so forth, that the students should assimilate.”

INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT

“Teaching studio centers as much as possible around the individual, without sacrificing basic things that the entire class should know and do. Needs of the individual are paramount. Also, in the plans for the future, there is a course in contemporary art. This program has developed in the last few years from one art course which was a combination of art history and studio. “A lot of people took it, but they didn't learn much about art history or art technique. So we split up the courses,” said Houchens. “Ever since then the studio class has been small, but steadily growing. I'm not sure why more people don’t take studio. There’s not much time for it, I know. And then, too, anybody who is really interested in art wouldn't come to Davidson because we have such a small department here.”

Houchens stopped and pondered for a long time and then said, “But, I think that it's more than that. Davidson has a fine academic rating which calls for competition among students. This results in high grade consciousness. Many boys with high averages might be afraid to risk their high standing on an ungraded course. But that’s part of what we try to overcome,” said Houchens. “Studio is a very difficult thing to grade. I try to consider the student’s progress more than his native ability when formulating his grade. Of course, there has to be some academic work, and I give tests on some of the basic information about design, color, paint, and so forth, that the students should assimilate.”

INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT

“Teaching studio centers as much as possible around the individual, without sacrificing basic things that the entire class should know and do. Needs of the individual are paramount. Also, in the plans for the future, there is a course in contemporary art. This program has developed in the last few years from one art course which was a combination of art history and studio. “A lot of people took it, but they didn't learn much about art history or art technique. So we split up the courses,” said Houchens. “Ever since then the studio class has been small, but steadily growing. I'm not sure why more people don’t take studio. There’s not much time for it, I know. And then, too, anybody who is really interested in art wouldn't come to Davidson because we have such a small department here.”

Houchens stopped and pondered for a long time and then said, “But, I think that it's more than that. Davidson has a fine academic rating which calls for competition among students. This results in high grade consciousness. Many boys with high averages might be afraid to risk their high standing on an ungraded course. But that’s part of what we try to overcome,” said Houchens. “Studio is a very difficult thing to grade. I try to consider the student’s progress more than his native ability when formulating his grade. Of course, there has to be some academic work, and I give tests on some of the basic information about design, color, paint, and so forth, that the students should assimilate.”

INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT

“Teaching studio centers as much as possible around the individual, without sacrificing basic things that the entire class should know and do. Needs of the individual are paramount. Also, in the plans for the future, there is a course in contemporary art. This program has developed in the last few years from one art course which was a combination of art history and studio. “A lot of people took it, but they didn't learn much about art history or art technique. So we split up the courses,” said Houchens. “Ever since then the studio class has been small, but steadily growing. I'm not sure why more people don’t take studio. There’s not much time for it, I know. And then, too, anybody who is really interested in art wouldn't come to Davidson because we have such a small department here.”

Houchens stopped and pondered for a long time and then said, “But, I think that it's more than that. Davidson has a fine academic rating which calls for competition among students. This results in high grade consciousness. Many boys with high averages might be afraid to risk their high standing on an ungraded course. But that’s part of what we try to overcome,” said Houchens. “Studio is a very difficult thing to grade. I try to consider the student’s progress more than his native ability when formulating his grade. Of course, there has to be some academic work, and I give tests on some of the basic information about design, color, paint, and so forth, that the students should assimilate.”

INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT

“Teaching studio centers as much as possible around the individual, without sacrificing basic things that the entire class should know and do. Needs of the individual are paramount. Also, in the plans for the future, there is a course in contemporary art. This program has developed in the last few years from one art course which was a combination of art history and studio. “A lot of people took it, but they didn't learn much about art history or art technique. So we split up the courses,” said Houchens. “Ever since then the studio class has been small, but steadily growing. I'm not sure why more people don’t take studio. There’s not much time for it, I know. And then, too, anybody who is really interested in art wouldn't come to Davidson because we have such a small department here.”

Houchens stopped and pondered for a long time and then said, “But, I think that it's more than that. Davidson has a fine academic rating which calls for competition among students. This results in high grade consciousness. Many boys with high averages might be afraid to risk their high standing on an ungraded course. But that’s part of what we try to overcome,” said Houchens. “Studio is a very difficult thing to grade. I try to consider the student’s progress more than his native ability when formulating his grade. Of course, there has to be some academic work, and I give tests on some of the basic information about design, color, paint, and so forth, that the students should assimilate.”

INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT

“Teaching studio centers as much as possible around the individual, without sacrificing basic things that the entire class should know and do. Needs of the individual are paramount. Also, in the plans for the future, there is a course in contemporary art. This program has developed in the last few years from one art course which was a combination of art history and studio. “A lot of people took it, but they didn't learn much about art history or art technique. So we split up the courses,” said Houchens. “Ever since then the studio class has been small, but steadily growing. I'm not sure why more people don’t take studio. There’s not much time for it, I know. And then, too, anybody who is really interested in art wouldn't come to Davidson because we have such a small department here.”

Houchens stopped and pondered for a long time and then said, “But, I think that it's more than that. Davidson has a fine academic rating which calls for competition among students. This results in high grade consciousness. Many boys with high averages might be afraid to risk their high standing on an ungraded course. But that’s part of what we try to overcome,” said Houchens. “Studio is a very difficult thing to grade. I try to consider the student’s progress more than his native ability when formulating his grade. Of course, there has to be some academic work, and I give tests on some of the basic information about design, color, paint, and so forth, that the students should assimilate.”

INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT

“Teaching studio centers as much as possible around the individual, without sacrificing basic things that the entire class should know and do. Needs of the individual are paramount. Also, in the plans for the future, there is a course in contemporary art. This program has developed in the last few years from one art course which was a combination of art history and studio. “A lot of people took it, but they didn't learn much about art history or art technique. So we split up the courses,” said Houchens. “Ever since then the studio class has been small, but steadily growing. I'mHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

that I wanted to go into art as a notion of the Fine Arts Fest wages the people receive, and the better prepared they are to Mr. Houchens earned a B.A. and an M.A. in art at the Rich. Mr. MacGowan has chosen to play Cesar Franck’s Piece Hero- FACES QUIZZING At a coffee hour held in the union ballroom after chapel, Mr. Sanford faced intensive questioning concerning the financing of his education. “I was working on my Doctorate in Art History at Ohio. I realized that if I got my degree it would mean the end of my painting—I would have an entirely academic or administrative life. So I decided to let the G.I. Bill go and contacted some teachers I knew about positions teaching art. This way I would be able to keep the opportunity to paint and would have the certain grade in studio. “Also the approach to a studio class is much different from the normal textual approach here at Davidson where much of what you learn is from textbooks. These things might make a difference.”

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a PIZZA. The famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.C.

Is it ever Ivy! Why, Coke is the most correct beverage you can possibly order on campus. Just look around you. What are the college social leaders going for? Coca-Cola! So take a leaf out of their Ivy League book and do the same! Enjoy the good taste of Coke! - It’s a wise smoker who depends on his own judgment, not opinions of others, in his choice of cigarettes. That’s why men and women who think for themselves usually smoke Viceroy. They know the Viceroy filter is scientifically designed to smooth the smoke the way a filter should. A thinking man’s choice... has a smoking man’s taste.

Do You Think for Yourself? (TAKE OFF ON THIS QUIZ AND SEE WHERE YOU LAND*)

If YOU ARE caught by the Dean in an infraction of a rule, would you (A) try to impress him with your sincere personality? (B) develop a strong argument against the injustice of the rule? (C) confess and take the consequences?

If YOU ACTUALLY found a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, would you (A) run to see if there was another at the other end? (B) make an appointment with a psychiatrist? (C) hire a rainmaker to make more rainbows?

If YOU'RE THINKING of changing to a filter cigarette—but which one? Would you (A) depend on what your friends tell you? (B) figure out what you want in a filter cigarette—and pick the one that gives it to you? (C) go for the one with the strongest taste?

If you checked (B) on three out of four of these questions—you think for yourself!

FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1960

Masquers Present Dramatic Reading

The Red and Black Masquers of Davidson College will present a reading of Stephen Vincent Benet’s John Brown’s Body at the College Union on Wednesday, May 18. Stephen Vincent Benet (1898-1943), New England poet and novelist, wrote this verse narrative of the Civil War in 1928 and named it after the John Brown of Harper's Ferry fame. After winning the Pulitzer Prize in 1929, the poem rapidly gained its present status as an American epic. The poem begins with a prelude entitled ‘The Slaver’ sketching early intersectional antagonism and giving an account of an early slave-trader, Captain Ball, and his conscience-stricken mate. The poem moves to the famous story of the raid on Harper's Ferry led by John Brown, of Brown’s capture, and of his being hanged. Then Benet tells the story of the opening days of the War with brief episodes in the lives of Lincoln, Davis, Lee, Jackson, Grant, and other outstanding figures. The interrupted story of the protagonists is picked up here. There will be three principal readers: an older man will be portrayed by Malcolm Murchison; Bill Haggen will be a younger man; and Jeanne Chatman of Queens College will play the female role. Students are now being selected for the modern Greek chorus which will represent one of the characters.

Kannapolis’ Leading Theatres

GEM
TODAY and SATURDAY
“KING OF WILD STALLIONS”
George Montgomery
—also—
“CIRCUS STARS” (Russian Film)

SATURDAY LATE SHOW
“THIS REBEL BREED”
Mark Damon

SWANEE
TODAY and SATURDAY
“HOME FROM THE HILL”
Robert Mitchum
Eleanor Parker

SATURDAY LATE SHOW
“HELLER IN PINK TIGHTS”
Anthony Quinn
Sophia Loren

AIR FORCE OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES

Three-month course leads to a commission as a Second Lieutenant. If you are graduating this June, apply now for admission to the Air Force Officer Training School. Successful completion of the three-month course wins you a commission and a head-start on a bright, rewarding future in the Aerospace Age. The School is open to men and women college graduates with certain technological and administrative skills. If you are selected for the School, you will receive Staff Sergeant pay while a trainee. Graduates may later apply for advanced training and graduate study at government expense. Male officers may also apply for flight training as pilots or navigators. For the career-minded young officer, the Air Force way of life can be stimulating, exciting, and full of meaning. He will be serving himself, his family, and his nation. This is the Aerospace Age. It is a time when a career in Air Force blue has so much to offer the young man or woman who qualifies. The Air Force is seeking only a select group of college graduates for admission into Officer Training School. However, we'd be happy to send detailed information to any senior who is interested. Just write: Officer Training School Information, Dept. SCL04, Box 7608, Washington 4, D.C. There's a place for tomorrow's Aerospace Team. U.S. Air Force