Che Dauidsonian THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1960 (All Unsigned Editorials by
the Editor)

A First Class Revamping

The changes in the ROTC curriculum are, we think, major steps forward for the department. They meet criticisms leveled at
ROTC departments throughout the country, and with the new curriculum, the department will contribute substantially more to the process of
offering liberal education at Davidson.

The biggest fault found with the traditional course is whether or not such a course belongs in an educational institution.
Learning how to kill the enemy is scarcely liberal arts, and even less in keeping with the ideals of a
church-related college. There is no major change in the basic course to answer these questions, but there has been a
change of emphasis to make room for the real meat to come in the advanced course. Tactics will appear for
the first time in the sophomore year, and weapons instruction will be cut drastically. Where will it be taught? In
a revamped summer camp program.

Advanced students are still the only ones required to attend the camp, and the basic philosophy is that basic cadets
don’t get enough practical weapons instructions to be of real value anyway. Drill has been cut to one hour. An
advanced cadet can choose a course from the fields of effective communication, science comprehension, general psychology or political development and
institutions, and apply one semester each year of one of these courses to his ROTC requirements. This means that he
goes to class and drill in the ROTC department for only one semester, but he is credited and paid for
the other as well. Since only half of the advanced cadets will be taking drill each semester, the useless positions
will be cut out and each man will have a responsible job to do.

Colonel Adams says he has been working on this change for a year, and we congratulate him for what appears
to be a first-class revamping.

Interest And Performance Appeal

The Artist Series programs run from hot to cold, depending on the night they are offered, the time of year,
and of course the performer. The interview with Mr. Shaw Smith (See page one) points up what we have felt
for a long time — that the Series, potentially a tremendous attraction, has to take second place to other campus
activities.

There are two basic reasons for the failure. The first is lack of interest on the part of the students
because they feel that the programs presented just aren't interesting or worth the time to go to them. Mr. Smith
postulates that the purpose of the Series is not “to provide popular entertainment,” but to offer “what most students wouldn’t
get for themselves.” Perhaps an objective examination of this postulate would bring improvement. True, the Series provides what most students
wouldn't get for themselves, but do the students take advantage of this offering? If the purpose of the Series is
to interest students in distant fields, we think that the first step, before offering the distant fields, is to interest
the students.

Which brings us to the second big problem. The Committee is forced to scrimp along on a too-meager budget, and
the performers it can get on this budget do not have the appeal necessary for student interest. Mr. Smith says
that “We simply cannot afford big names when we are staging seven attractions a year on such a budget.” The
ideal solution is, of course, a larger budget. But this lacking, would it not be more practical to stage, say,
four attractions with the present budget? It seems to us that a lot of student interest some of the time
is better than no interest all of the time.

The Verdict Is Yours

Traditionally, a major part of an outgoing editor's final comments is devoted to a summary of editorial policy for the
year. It is the “one last shot" of the editor. We shall depart from tradition this year. We see no
need to rehash old arguments or to refresh student memory of editorial stands. We think the students are well aware
of how we stand on major issues, and for this reason, we see no need of filling up this column
with warmed-over issues and arguments.

We would like to say, however, that we think it’s been a good semester; the editorial staff has been a
free one in the largest sense of the word. Controversy has inevitably arisen, but we think that only through controversy
and discussion can progress be made. As we turn from writer to avid reader, a remark from one of the
personal letters we have received comes to mind: The greatest service a college newspaper can perform is to stimulate honest
discussion and objective examination, regardless of whether or not editorial stands happen to agree with student opinion. We leave the
final verdict and pronouncement to DAVIDSONIAN readers.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Dick Smith BUSINESS MANAGER Charlie Rowe Associate Editor Jim Hamilton Assignments Editor David Jordan Managing Editors Ervin Duggan Copy
Editor Russ Showalter Bob Moore Cartoonists Redding Advertising Manager Olin Nisbet Sports Editor B. Milner Circulation Mgr. Albert McClure Jr.
Feature Editor Tom Colvin Ass’t Business Manager Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Writers Hit Paper’s Athletic Proposals

Dave McCullough

Dear Editor:

This is a biased, prejudiced letter written by a scholarship athlete in defense of preserving football scholarships. I wish to
take issue with several parts of the latest editorial of “The Great Crusade” series by our crusading editor who would
seemingly like to see Davidson as it is at present turned upside down.

Concerning the statement “an easy way to judge the relative amount of interest in the relationship of athletics to academics
is to look at amounts of money spent on each using the Endowment Fund as a reference,” perhaps it has
not occurred to the editor that some of the alumni contribute money to the Living Endowment Fund for athletic scholarships
only — would the Living Endowment Fund be nearly as large without this money? Also, the new Dana scholarships will
provide many men with aid who previously had none. I think the alumni and Board of Trustees should be able
to control athletic policy as they see fit, implementing the apparent wishes of the majority of alumni as long as
admission standards are not lowered.

It seems that since neither the editor nor I are yet graduates, how can we grasp the whole picture of
the relative importance of athletics as well as the alumni can? We should accept their decisions as more prudent and
better for the general welfare than ours might be.

In my opinion, the scholarship athletes have contributed proportionately as much to the school in all phases as have the
academic winners. The football scholarship athletes exert a leveling influence on the school by drawing a healthy medium between ultra-intellectualism
and shoddy work, and also by participating in many extra-curricular activities. The whole matter boils down to this—do we want
to secure the all-around student at Davidson, or do we want to lay practically all emphasis on intellectual prowess? Football
players bring in some revenue via gate receipts. Do the academic scholarship students? Football players also have to work a
lot harder for the compensation they receive.

Laying aside the mercenary aspect, the participation of Davidson in the Southern Conference gives it a certain prestige and appeal
which aid the school in publicity. A 5-4 record (which Davidson had for four straight years before 1959) gives favorable
publicity to the school and gives many students a certain amount of pride in their school. I feel that our
present football set-up is a valuable fall meeting ground for social unification of the students which they need very much.
Other meeting grounds are Hattie’s and concerts in Chambers. The intellectual side of Davidson is stressed enough now. If we
cut out scholarship football, we will lose a valuable outlet for excess student energy and will probably become like W.
& L. I don’t think the average Davidson student wants this. This excess (which cannot be burned up by studying)
would go to a certainextent to weekend drunken blasts at State, Duke, and Carolina. I would rather say to a
W. & L. man, “we may not be able to outdrink you, but we can beat hell out of you
in football.” Let’s keep Davidson a wonderland and not let it turn into fairyland. Dave McCullough.

Ackerman McKeithen Reviews IFC Year: “We've Moved In New Areas”
By WARD McKEITHEN

The Interfraternity Council has found itself during the past year faced with several opportunities for active leadership and work. The
Council is an organization established to govern the interfraternity relations and as such is blessed with specific functions and student
support.

IDEA ESTABLISHED
Among the other major functions of the IFC are the coordination of Rush Week and Greek Week. Rush Week was
carried out with a noticeable lack of confusion and complaint. The Greek Week constituted a major effort on the part
of the fraternities and the IFC. The pledge banquet and trophy, the skit night, and the emphasized projects resulted in
what appears to be a definite establishment of the Greek Week idea.

NEW AREAS
The Council has attempted to move into several new areas this year. The establishment of a strong independent group, to
continue closer communication and cooperation with the independents, particularly through a representative on the Council, has been encouraged. The establishment
of the IFC Concert Series to be inaugurated next year should prove to be this year’s Council’s most significant achievement.

STRONG INFLUENCE
The IFC, with its specific functions and fraternity support, has the opportunity of effectively acting on behalf of a large
majority of students. As a result of the support and interest given it, the Council has received a strong influence
and potential. It is this potential, along with the specific functions, that the Council must fulfill next year. Thus the
Council will be faced with an investigation of the time of rush. It will need to encourage the Greek Week
idea and perhaps move the week into early February.

OPPORTUNITIES
The Council will have the opportunity to encourage a strong emphasis and the chapel programs all added to the better-supported
and received weekends. In regard to the spring dance weekend, the Council anticipates a fine Spring Frolics and hopes to
sponsor some outstanding attraction for a May concert. Throughout the year the emphasis has been upon popular attractions designed to
encourage student support.

Scot Lacy
Dear Sir:
In the beginning let me say that no one has more respect for scholastic achievement than I do. Nevertheless, I
feel that the recent controversy over athletic versus academic scholarships has been presented from a one-sided and slanted point of
view; therefore I would like to clear the air somewhat and get a few of the arguments out into the
open.

In the first place, I am not sure I understand what the editor meant in his recent editorial when he
seemed to advocate a reduction in the athletic scholarship fund solely because the football team had not managed to “compete
successfully” in the Southern Conference last year. Is the won-lost record the main consideration? Besides, whether Davidson awards 12 basketball
scholarships or 49 football scholarships, we still have the same “immoral” question confronting us of whether it is right to
have subsidized athletics in an institution dedicated to higher learning.

If then it is really the question of the rightness or wrongness of athletic scholarships, why don’t the opponents argue
from this ground alone instead of retreating behind the protection provided by a comparison of the two funds? Certainly, it
doesn’t seem right that there should be $60,000 in the athletic fund available for approximately 60 boys and only $88,000
for the 220 boys receiving the various grants-in-aid and academic scholarships. But, as I see it, it isn’t that the
athletic fund is too large but rather that the academic fund is too small. It might be that a quick
look at the amounts of money provided for academic scholarships by the other schools of comparative size and reputation would
prove enlightening.

In closing, I would just like to say that it seems funny that there should be such an increase in
the criticism leveled at our athletic policy during the one year that the two subsidized sports have had such unfortunate
seasons.
Scott Lacy.

Ackerman Ringe Blasts Passage Of Voting Amendment
Dear Editor:
Dee Green Tuesday in presenting to the student body a constitutional amendment did so in such a way as to
violate the rights of at least a hundred students. Having taken the ballots to all the fraternity houses, he failed
to distribute them to the independents, either at Mrs. Copeland’s or the Union. This action by the President of the
Student Body, who was elected to preserve the rights of all the students, is intolerable under a democratic system. It
also shows Green’s complete lack of concern for proper democratic procedure. If such action is tolerated by the student body,
democratic rule will become a mockery, for if any group is arbitrarily disenfranchised by a person concerned only with creating
an image of a hard-working student council, no one is guaranteed that he will not be next to lose his
rights.

The student body must rise in protest to protect its rights. It must call on the student council to declare
the vote null and void and to rerun the vote. The President of the Student Body must learn that he
will have to operate under at least a semblance of democratic procedure, even if it is in the last few
weeks of his term. The action by the Student Body must be taken now and not later. This issue must
not die, as have so many others, without action.
Charles Ringe.

Predictions
BY JOHN STONE
During the past year, this column has presented the presidential sweepstakes. The positions of the candidates have changed many times.
There was even a time when it looked as if the Democrats might win, which was enough to inspire renewed
confidence in the American public. Instead, I must predict another Republican Presidential victory for this November, barring some major change
between now and then. There will be no balm in Gilead.

I also predict that Davidson College will be here next year, probably, as usual, a little better than this year.
Some of the new professors coming in have very impressive academic pedigrees. The replacement problem is a challenge, but it
is being met. Davidson has faced many problems in the past; she has solved them with the efforts of many,
including her students. The Davidson student has demonstrated the fire of his ideals this year, sometimes overzealously, but rarely with
any harmful results. The French have a little saying: “He who is not socialist at twenty has no heart; he
who is still one at forty has no head.” Thank heavens Davidson students have a heart, and thank heavens none
of those running the College are over forty.

Several problems remain. What will be the position of the Student Council as the Honor Court takes over more and
more duties? Will the College be able to continue carrying out the provisions of the Cunningham Program for the best
liberal arts college for 1000 men? Will there be any redefinition of the fraternity system, and if so, will it
be from without or within? Will the Trustees have a peaceful meeting, undisturbed by anyone with an axe to grind?
Finally, the most serious problem of all: What will become of Hattie’s? Will Linus frame his library card?
