PAGE FOUR —— David Gillis, Business Manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN since last spring, last week announced his resignation from that post. In a letter to the publication's board (see page two), Gillis stated that his resignation was in protest against “what many consider a growing misuse of THE DAVIDSONIAN.” He referred to the recent editorial requesting the Board of Trustees to re-open the study of college segregation policies.

In an interview this week, Gillis answered questions regarding statements in his letter of resignation.

How has THE DAVIDSONIAN “misrepresented Davidson College to the general public”?

Although the editor insists no bias appears in his news, those outside the college have misinterpreted some, and the people of Davidson, and all who read the CHARLOTTE NEWS think the views of the Trustee Special represent a demand for integration of Davidson, by Davidson students, in majority. This is a misrepresentation, whether intended or not.

You imply that “crusading or opinions on controversial subjects” has not been “confined to the editorial sections of the newspaper.” Please give evidence of this.

I think the Trustee Special is evidence enough of crusading. Whether it be incorrect or not, agitation about integration is taken as agitation for integration.

What is meant by your statement that “THE DAVIDSONIAN should belong to the college community and not to any faction or group”? Do you feel that the editor should express only majority opinions, or avoid expressing controversial opinions, regardless of his convictions?

I am not complaining about THE DAVIDSONIAN expressing any opinion, as long as it is confined to the editorial sections, and the majority of the paper be given over to news.

What is meant by your allegation that “a growing misuse” of THE DAVIDSONIAN is now in progress? Please give evidence of this growth. When did it begin? How far has it progressed?

The growing space in THE DAVIDSONIAN which is devoted to issues which are personal issues of an editor, and in my opinion, giving more space than adequate coverage of these issues merit or require, is a misuse of THE DAVIDSONIAN. I think THE DAVIDSONIAN is primarily a newspaper and personal convictions or platforms should be confined to a proper proportion of the paper.

Professor, Students (Continued From Page One)

Why don't they respond to their courses? Why don't they go to the library and study with interest?” This situation is not a result of a poor faculty, but rather results from student apathy and general disinterest in academics.

(5) There is a definite lack of senior leadership. The leaders here are not challenged to produce. Moreover, the intellectual leaders all eventually move off campus.

FRATERNITIES

The cause for these symptoms, according to Warden, is the fraternity system as it now stands. He hastened to add, however, that he feels that fraternities can be very beneficial to the Davidson campus. To correct the current faults with the fraternity system, Warden proposed that a sophomore rush program be instituted. He explained that such a system would force the fraternities to prove themselves, and thus would result in a strengthening of the fraternity system.

To the freshmen who want to be fraternity members but also feel that the fraternities demand too much time of a pledge, Warden suggested that they tell their pledge trainers that they would like to be inactive pledges while they decided whether the fraternities deserve the time they require.

After a 25-minute presentation, Warden opened the floor for questions.

McKEITHEN

IFC President Ward McKeithen stated the fraternity's side of the question in the same classes Wednesday and Thursday. His opening remarks assured the class that he thought “that the recent criticism leveled at the fraternity system is an indication that students are concerned about the system; that any organization worth existence must face these questions.”

MEANING OF FRATERNITIES

McKeithen listed several points in his presentation. “Here’s what fraternities mean to me,” he said.

J. L., the youngest of the Stacks children, is known for his “expression.” J. L. is the self-appointed guardian of the approach to Patterson Court.

Frat Men Colorful Stacks Kids By RAN SHAFFNER Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Vickie, answer the door,” sounded a feminine voice from within. I waited on the porch of the gray slatted house near the laundry. A bicycle lay on its side in the yard. Presently, the door swung open, pulling its little opener precariously off balance. Catching her breath and lifting her right arm for balance, Vickie Rae Stacks, 7, responded to my request to see her mother by first curiously turning her head at an angle; and then ignited by an “O. K., just a minute,” she turned and ran into a rear room.

Mrs. Stacks, inviting me in, was holding the hand of a wiggling, round-faced boy wrapped in a blue, fur-collared coat and matching cap pulled down over his ears. “This is J. L.,” she said, when we were seated. “He's the youngest.” J. L. I recognized as the demanding bearer of the dime store six-shooter or garden rake which amusingly hinders fraternity members in their walk to and from meals. Escaping the grip of his mother’s hand, he now began to beat on the sofa cushions. Futilely trying to quiet him down, Mrs. Stacks continued, “J. L. takes care of himself. He's his own boss, as you can probably see.”

At this time Vickie returned from the back room and hopped up in the hardbacked chair near the sofa. J. L. left the sofa to get a golf club he saw on the floor. “Vickie,” said Mrs. Stacks, “is seven. She’s in her second year of school here.” Vickie, her short, black, banged hair and violet dress enhancing a pretty smile and sparkling, lively eyes, sat silently listening until the conversation approached the topic of the fraternity boys who pass her house. “We used to make ’em hold the rope just for us when we jumped rope not long ago,” she primmed.

The front door opened and C. W., Jr., entered, wearing a large brimmed hat and carrying his coat in his hand. C. W., a rising teenager and sixth grader in Davidson, loves basketball, baseball, and tennis. “I’m going to be a tennis player when I grow up,” he contributed as he left the room to return shortly. J. L. by this time was beating the sofa with the golf club he had found. “J. L.!” Mrs. Stacks pleaded, “you'll hit somebody!” J. L. curled his tongue and narrowed his shoulders slightly in shame and shifted his clubbing to the flooring.

“C. W.’s the quiet type mostly,” asserted Mrs. Stacks. “He's a straight A student so far, and he likes to play the piano and the flute. I don’t ever have to tell him to practice. He does it on his own.” “Sometimes we can get into it and blow it our own self,” added Vickie mischievously. J. L., club in hand, ran to the door and cantered outside. Cautiously, the Stacks’ low-slung rat terrier ventured through the open doorway and attracted conversation. “That's Jigger,” said Mrs. Stacks. “The kids love him. They all claim him, but they don’t feed him.”

Mrs. Stacks concluded as I rose to leave, “We certainly will miss the boys when we move. Only time we haven't enjoyed them is late at night,” she added, admonishing me not to print that. As I left the house and walked down the front steps, Mrs. Stacks called from within, “J. L.!”

COPYRIGHT 1987 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

You'll enjoy today’s copy of this publication much more if you'll get up right now and get yourself an ice-cold bottle of Coca-Cola. (Naturally, we'd be happier, too!) BE REALLY REFRESHED Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, N. C.Benny Goodman Erroll Garner Jonah Jones Ben Webster Bob Scobey Vic Dickenson Rex Stewart Dukes of Dixieland ~) . @1000, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. 10 GREAT JAZZ NUMBERS Shine On Harvest Moon When The Saints Go Marching In ° PLAYED BY YOUR FAVORITE ARTISTS Shorty Rogers Duke Ellington Red Norvo Buck Clayton RECORD!! March Of The Toys Just A Mood St. James Infirmary Tin Roof Blues Louis Armstrong The Royalty Rules Over Military Ball “The Royalty,” a progressive jazz and dance combo, will provide the music for the Military Ball, sponsored by Scabbard and Blade. The second annual dance for advanced ROTC students and officers will be held in the Charlotte Women’s Club from nine to twelve tomorrow night. Tickets are still available from Scabbard and Blade members. Highlight of the ball is the selection of the “Honorary Cadet Colonel” from among the dates of Scabbard and Blade members. Lt. Col. W. L. Adams, Jr., will escort the Honorary Cadet Colonel in a special figure. to me,” he said. (1) They provide opportunity for group association. Through this group they develop friendship and mutual understanding. But the group itself is not an exclusive one. The so-called barrier between fraternities and the independents is a false one. (2) Fraternities develop personality, particularly through the pledge program. It is admittedly possible for the results to be a bad one, but the good results outweigh the bad. (3) They offer the traditions of high ideals and brotherhood. The ritual may be lacking in practice, but it is there nonetheless. Scholarship is stressed throughout the year. (4) Fraternities are the basis of Davidson College social life. This phase extends not only to dance weekends, but is manifested in weekend gatherings and fraternity retreats. They are a valuable means to gain social poise and to make contacts. REBUTTAL After making his positive statements, McKeithen turned to an examination of Warden's presentation. “I cannot agree,” he said, “that the fraternities are responsible for the apathy on the campus. I think that it is due more to the lack of student leadership, both in general campus life and in extracurricular activities. “As far as deferred rush is concerned, I think there are definite advantages to the idea. There is one thing that worries me, however. I think we have a good degree of diversification in the fraternities now, and I’m afraid that a deferred rush system would destroy this diversification.” McKeithen concluded that “fraternities are a necessary good and are an integral part of the philosophy of education at Davidson.” FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1960 Faculty Loses Six Men On Sabbaticals, Leaves By DAVID JORDAN Davidsonian Assignments Editor Four Davidson professors will be on sabbatical next year and two others will be away from the college on a year’s leave of absence, Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston told the DAVIDSONIAN this week. The Board of Trustees approved the requests of these men at their meeting last week and authorized them to proceed with their plans. At the same time, Dean Johnston began seeking replacements. Dr. George Labban, Dr. George Abernethy, Dr. Charles Ratliff and Professor Douglas Houchens will be on sabbaticals. Dr. Labban will be away for only the first semester, while the other men have been given the full year. Dr. Bruce Jackson and Professor Brooks McLane are taking the leaves of absence. Dean Johnston commented that this was the largest number of men to be away from the college in one year that he could remember. “It is something that the college feels is good for its faculty. It gives them an opportunity to keep up with new material in their fields, and ‘recharge their batteries’.” Professors receive full salary for a one semester sabbatical or half salary for a full year. Members of the faculty on leaves of absence do not draw any salary. The sabbaticals affect two departments in which only one professor teaches, philosophy and art, and with the exception of only one class, Dr. Labban has all the Greek courses. In addition to replacing these men, new professors will also be needed in the absence of Dr. Pedro Trakas and Professor John Satterfield, who are becoming members of the new Florida Presbyterian College, Professor John Evans, who is taking a pastorate, and Dr. Jay Ostwalt who is going to the Medical College of Virginia. Dr. Labban will be spending three and a half months in the area of Italy, Greece, Turkey, Lebanon and the Aegean Islands doing work on first and second century Greek and Latin epigraphy. He intends to work especially in the area of the Syro-Phoenician merchant guilds. Professor Houchens plans to continue the work which he started last summer. He will visit New York and other American art centers to take slides of current artists and their work, and then compile this material to show the trend of present thought. "I already have 300 slides, but I hope to have between 1200 and 1500," commented Houchens. “However, some of the time I will be painting myself. My family plans to go to Mexico where I will concentrate on my own work and compiling the slides.” Dr. Ratliff will be in Raleigh at the North Carolina Department of Tax Research to study the 1957 changes in North Carolina tax laws designed to reduce the income tax load on interstate corporations. The law was to eliminate what had been considered a deterrent to economic development in the state. Continuing his work of the past two summers in Hawaii and Florida, Dr. Jackson will be working with the Operations Analysis Standby Unit. He will be in Germany at the headquarters of the United States Air Forces of Europe. Professor McLane will also be continuing work started during the summer. He is becoming the full-time research assistant for Dr. Ervin W. Muller of Pennsylvania State University in the field of ion microscopy. Dr. Abernethy’s plans for his sabbatical are not complete at the present time. Kannapolis’ Leading Theatres GEM Today and Saturday “THE GAZEBO" Glenn Ford and Debbie Reynolds Starts Sat. Nite 8:45 “HAPPY ANNIVERSARY” David Niven and Mitzi Gaynor SWANEE Today and Saturday “LEGEND OF THE DOOMED” —Also— “CROSS-UP” Starts Sat. Late Show “BRIDGES AT TOKO RI” Starring William Holden and Mickey Rooney In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C. Windproof, rainproof, WASH AND WEAR ALL-WEATHER JACKET LONDON FOG It’s all the jacket you need! Lastingly water-and-wind repellent...and wrinkle resistant! With convertible English collar that buttons up for rough weather. The fabric is Calibre Cloth... 65% dacron, 35% cotton so blended it stands up under the most rugged wear! Soiled? Just toss it into a washing machine...let it drip dry...it looks new again, ready to go! Light pressing is optional, and actually increases the water repellency! Colors: In ivory or olive... 34-46. $15.95 FREE with the purchase of a London Fog jacket, your fraternity crest... or a blazer. to be worn on the jacket GENTRY house Charlottetown Mall . . . Charlotte