FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1960

Ruth Adorns Snackbar With Flora, Frankness
By MELVIN McKENZIE | Davidsonian Staff Writer

PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fine Arts Series Slates Dances, Recitals, Plays

Sunday Night Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Johnston
Plott

General Carlos Romulo, famous Philippine statesman and Ambassador to the U. S.; the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra; and the Cleveland Play House are among the top attractions on the 1960-61 Artist Series announced by Donald Plott, chairman of the series.

Goya and Matteo, artists of the dance, will open the Series with a program of dances from many countries. They will appear at 8:00 p.m., Friday, October 21, in Chambers Auditorium.

ROSSINI OPERA

Other programs scheduled include the National Opera Company in Rossini’s sophisticated comic opera “La Cenerentola” on Wednesday, November 9; Natalie Bodanya, lyric soprano of the Metropolitan Opera, on Monday, December 5; and Richard C. Hottelet, CBS-TV news analyst, who will speak on the subject of “Top Priority Issues for a New Administration” on Monday, February 6.

The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra under the baton of Henry Janiec with Robert MacDonald as piano soloist will present a Schumann program on Tuesday, February 21.

GEN. ROMULO

General Carlos P. Romulo, famous aide-de-camp to General MacArthur in World War II, will speak on the subject “The Asia America Does Not Know.” This timely program is set for Friday, March 10.

The Cleveland Play House will present Ben Jonson's celebrated comedy, “Volpone,” on Friday, April 7. All performances, except the Goya and Matteo dance recital, will begin at 8:15 o'clock in Chambers Auditorium.

Comprehensive Poll Shows (Continued From Page One)

program of seminars and more papers. He said, “I'm afraid that there would be a tendency to spend too much time preparing for the comprehensives... rather than trying to understand the interdependence and interrelatedness of economics.”

Dr. Lilly, head of the English department, stated, “I think that comprehensive examinations are a good thing provided they are well conducted. In order to have them well conducted, the teachers must hold up a high standard and require mature work.” He also felt that it would be better to use outside examiners.

The head of the psychology department, Dr. Workman, favored comprehensives given at the end of the junior year, administered by the Graduate Record Examinations. He felt that from the results of these exams, the student could tell where he needed to concentrate in his senior year.

Dr. Abernethy, of the philosophy department, declined to voice his opinion of comprehensives at this time. He said that he was planning to visit five colleges in the Midwest in late October and that he would make a statement after he returned. (For the history department, see Dr. Thompson’s letter to the editor.)

The three top-ranking seniors were also asked for their opinions. Jim Anderson, who has the highest academic average, stated, “In my major subject, mathematics, I don’t think they would be of too much value. I think that it might turn into a farce here, if all the students had to take comprehensives, because the caliber of our students isn’t that high.”

Henry McFayden, second highest academically, felt that comprehensives could make a real contribution if they were based on all four years of study. He said that he thought it would be better if the professors make up the tests.

Henry Shue, president of the student body and third ranking senior, stated, “I think that comprehensives, if administered by visiting professors, could be an excellent influence in raising the level of scholastic performance.”

Chapeaux (Continued From Page One)

always cheer when he says that.” She smiled. “We don’t have much, you know. Just our mortgage and our little dog Checkers... Dick and I came up from poverty. We know what it is to be poor. Not like SOME lousy—” “not by law alone; not by some court ruling. It’s got to be solved by the good will of good Southern people!” The voice of the speaker in the Coliseum quavered with conviction and the crowd roared approval. She smiled, “He's getting toward the end now,” she said.

Arnold Challenges Pacifists To Action

Phil Arnold, program chairman of the Westminster Fellowship, has issued a challenge to any student who feels strongly enough about pacifism to defend it. An informal debate has been planned as a program for the latter part of November, at which time a student and a faculty member or outsider will defend each side. The question to be considered will be “Can a Christian Kill?”

“Rather than approach someone who has his doubts, but still has not made up his mind on this issue,” said Arnold, “I would like to find a student who has considered the question and feels strongly enough to defend it. There may not be such a student on this campus, but I hope that if there is one, he will not hesitate to speak up. Correspondence is being carried on with a faculty member and an outsider, both outstanding persons, who will also be defending each side. Any student interested in making a defense of either side should contact Phil Arnold as soon as possible.

Phi Elects Officers, Plans Programs

“The Philanthropic Society's programs this semester will be based on controversial topics,” stated Allen Wells, newly-elected president of the society. For the first program of the semester this past Monday night, Wells delivered a talk about Communist literature. This was the first program of a two-part series concerning education. The second part of the series will be a talk by Joe Markee entitled, “The Sterile Value of Education.”

Wells said that other programs for the semester include a review of Phillip Wylie's Generation of Vipers, followed by a discussion of the author’s attempts to justify prostitution and condemn religion, a series of debates, a reading of a play, and a panel discussion by several Richardson Scholars.

In addition to Wells, these other new officers were elected: Joe Markee, vice-president; Lew Metts, secretary; Tom Hamilton, treasurer; and David Cumming.

Elliott
Frey
Ghigo
Gross
Horton
Lammers
Lester
Lord
Minter
Pierce
Purcell
Rhodes
Schenck
Smith
Threlkeld

Gavin Stirs Criticism By Chapel Statement

Robert Gavin's visit to Davidson last week and the remarks the Republican gubernatorial candidate made in an answer to a question following his chapel address caused a great deal of comment in newspapers throughout the state. The issue which has caused the comment is Gavin's denial of endorsing the educational program espoused by the United Forces for Education. Charles Rose asked Gavin why he denied endorsing the UFE’s program when he had endorsed an identical program set forth by the North Carolina Education Association. Gavin replied that the UFE statement contained a definite time limit for meetingThe proposals and that the NCEA program made no reference to a specific time limit. Gavin's statement was printed in the Charlotte Observer the following morning. Wednesday afternoon, the headquarters of Terry Sanford, Gavin's opponent in the election, issued a statement asking if Gavin was just confused or if he even knew what the UFE stood for. The Sanford statement also said that Gavin had misled the Davidson students by saying he hadn't endorsed the UFE program. In a news article appearing in the October 5, Charlotte Observer, there is the statement: “Gavin in April had fully endorsed a program outlined in a questionnaire sent him by the North Carolina Education Association Journal. The questionnaire was the UFE program verbatim, NCEA authorities said, although it did not carry the label."

Rose revealed to THE DAVIDSONIAN late this week that he had been contacted by a close friend of Sanford’s on the day before Gavin spoke here. The “friend” in the open question period suggested that Sanford supporters in the student body ask Gavin about his statement referring to the state Democratic machine as being like Castro’s government. He also suggested the question about the UFE education program. Rose said, “Just because people in North Carolina are displeased with the way the National Democratic Party is treating them is no reason to throw out of office the able Democratic state government we have now and replace it with an inexperienced Republican ticket. I think Gavin is an extremely personable sort of fella but his many contradictory statements show that he doesn’t fully understand the complex job of state government in North Carolina.”

Council Discusses (Continued From Page One)
Shue’s third appointive group will concern itself with “the drinking rule,” which Shue made a major issue of his campaign last spring. The Student Council recommended that the library be kept open until midnight on Monday through Friday of every week. Dr. Davidson, director of the library, said that this would bring about an annual expense of over $1,000.

Flowers for Ruth Stinson? Mr. Hobart walked briskly into the Union Snack Bar and placed a box full of yellow chrysanthemums on the counter. “Want some coffee?” she asked after she had thanked him. In the afternoon, Ruth—smiling, disgusted or tired—idles behind the counter, hand on hip, and scans the tables. Above the constant clatter from the kitchen, Charlie croons a spiritual or some rock and roll tune. Finally, Ruth arranges the flowers and puts them on the tables. Ruth watches three men at a nearby table. One well-known talker roars in laughter, and Ruth grins. “Lawsy me," she says. She’s a singing Ruth at times, but usually looks around lazily, popping her chewing gum—except for an occasional burst of eloquence: “I’m going to break my back this day. Yeah, I am. Too hard on me. Can't find mess!” Ruth carries the tray into the kitchen, “Where’s the radio, somebody? Let’s have some music.” Coming back to the front, she calls through the window as sweetly as she can, “Charlie, you going to scrub for me?” Charlie says no. “Can't find nobody to do nothing for me,” says Ruth as she goes after a mop. Ruth was going to get married. She didn’t. “Couldn't get him to work for me.” So? “So, I ditched him.” Now Ruth is independent. She drives that big white Oldsmobile to work every day. Two professors hee-haw at the counter. Ruth stands with folded arms, open mouth, and occasionally blinking eyes, and patiently waits for them to order. But Ruth shows her greatest charms when she waits on an elderly lady. One thing is sure about unpredictable Ruth these days. She is going to stay on the ball. She likes it better at the counter where she makes milkshakes instead of in the kitchen making salads. Ruth is frank about religion. One student was getting supper one Friday night. Two meats were served. He chose the fish. “You're a Jew,” she said. A sophomore bolted into the Union and enthusiastically called, “Hey, Ruth!” Ruth, who was leaning against the counter with arms folded, casually lifted a hand and said nonchalantly, “Hiyah. What you have?” Typical.

10 P.M. TUES., OCT. 12, BASEMENT STUDENT UNION
You're cordially invited to attend this showing of the latest young men's fashions with the “natural shoulder look,” carefully selected from the Saxon Shop, of Belk’s in Charlotte. Mike Waters, campus representative, 103 Cannon Dormitory. REGISTER FOR DOOR PRIZE Sport Coat from Belk’s to be given at 6 P.M. REMEMBER, BELK’S FOR THE BEST IN MEN’S CLOTHING—CREDIT TERMS ARRANGED

Wes Roberts can tell you: “THERE’S NO CEILING FOR A SELF-STARTER IN THE TELEPHONE BUSINESS”
When Wes Roberts was nearing the end of his senior year at San Jose State College, he was looking for a job with a wide-open future. He found it when he joined Pacific Telephone in San Francisco. Here’s how Wes tells it: “I remember one of my first jobs. The boss said, ‘Wes, I want you to work out a plan showing where we'll need new field operating centers to keep up with Northern California’s growth over the next 10 years.’ I didn’t know whether I was more happy or scared.” Wes didn’t tell us (but his boss did) that he handled the report like a pro. And today, as a division supervisor, he’s holding down a key telephone job. Wes Roberts’ story is not unique in the Bell Telephone Companies. The telephone business is growing fast—and men are needed who can grow just as fast. Wes can tell you: “We get good training. But no one nurses you along. We hire managers—not errand boys. So far as I can see, there’s no ceiling for a self-starter in this business.” If you're a guy like Wes Roberts—if you like to bite off more than you can chew and then chew it—you'll want to visit your Placement Office for literature and additional information.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES