Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1960

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Sanford For Governor

We are disturbed by the strange upswing in sentiment favoring the Republican candidate for governor in North Carolina, Robert L. Gavin. When some five hundred Republicans got together somewhere in Raleigh last spring and decided to let Gavin run for governor, nobody thought that he would be running neck and neck with Terry Sanford in November.

We liked Bob Gavin when he was here to speak in early October. He is a personable, unassuming man, and we were a little sorry that he had to run against a smooth, astute, articulate pro like Sanford. But we're not going to vote for Gavin because we don't think he can get the job done. He couldn’t get the job done even if he had Terry Sanford’s experience and political savvy.

Let’s picture Bob Gavin as governor of North Carolina. He would be faced with a hostile Democratic General Assembly. His program, such as it is, would disintegrate without sustained legislative action. We don’t feel that Gavin is politician enough to push his bills through an opposition legislature. On top of that, he is likely to be saddled with a Democratic Council of State.

But what if people who vote for Gavin vote a straight Republican ticket? Wouldn't this give him a Republican cabinet and a few legislators? Yes, but we don’t think many will. Ever heard of the young Republican who is opposing Thad Eure for Secretary of State? His name is David Morton, he’s 37 years old and he’s manager of the Homelite office in Charlotte. He’s also in the Toastmaster's Club. Eure is a veteran, popular state politician who has been Secretary of State for twenty-three years.

Dr. Charles F. Carroll has been superintendent of three city school systems and has served as state Superintendent of Public Instruction since 1952. His competition for the post is Mrs. Mary Jo Zachary. She’s an ex-school teacher from Yadkinville. She has never held a state office, but she’s a member of the PTA and she says that she believes in an improved school system.

And it’s that way down the whole slate: a veteran Democratic public servant against a well-meaning Republican amateur. In many counties, candidates for the House of Representatives run unopposed.

But what about the men themselves—Sanford and Gavin? Sanford is a former state senator, member of the Ports Authority, and past president of the North Carolina Young Democrats. Gavin is a former U.S. District Attorney but has never held a state elective office.

Sanford has conducted a fairly sane campaign. His program has been thoroughly planned and constructed. He is well informed and has taken a straightforward, progressive stand on the issues. He will enjoy a reasonable amount of support from the General Assembly.

Gavin, on the other hand, has shown himself to be misinformed on basic facts of the education issue. He chided Sanford for free-spending, and in almost the same breath advocated a 50 per cent raise in teachers’ pay, which would amount to 65 million dollars a year. He compared the state Democratic administration to Castro's Cuban government, but could back it up only with a vague letter to employees of the Highway Department. He has repeatedly reversed and equivocated his position on key issues.

Then why are people going to vote for him? Many don’t care for Sanford’s unqualified endorsement of Senator John F. Kennedy. Many frustrated supporters of I. Beverly Lake have shifted to Gavin more for spite than any intelligent reason. And Gavin is riding a wave of two-party sentiment in the state.

It’s time North Carolinians woke up to the real issues in the gubernatorial election. Two-party politics is fine, but the movement won't get very far with Robert L. Gavin. We endorse Terry Sanford with the confidence that he is the right man for the job.

The Court's Last Chance

The Student Council this year has shown on several occasions a quality of maturity in its openness to self-criticism. A couple of weeks ago, the Council willingly re-examined its stand requesting the administration to “liberalize” vesper cuts and decided after further consideration that its initial action had been hasty. They then withdrew the request.

At their last meeting, the councilmen again paused to re-examine their actions, this time concerning the Court of Control (See article on page 1). We are gratified to see the Council examine all sides of this problem and set its goal on providing a workable and valuable Court of Control. We would like to offer our ideas for consideration.

To function properly, the court must have the respect of the student body. We have seen in the past that when this respect is lacking the court flounders in a sea of indifference on the part of upperclassmen and rebellion (from freshmen and upperclassmen reformers). In large part, the court has failed to win respect because of its choice of methods by which to achieve its ends. We submit that there is a world of difference between firmness and bulliness. In its “lean” years, the court has been a bully organization.

When we consider methods of providing an effective court program, we toss our support to a court composed of members of the Student Council. We support a court that will not indict a suspect—before he has been proven guilty or not guilty—in front of the whole student body. We support the more constructive freshman regulations and we favor penalties strong enough to make a freshman think twice before breaking the rules. Above all, we would encourage upperclass support of the new program. We would like to see a firm court, one whose explicit business is to build a class of freshmen which will become a part of the college and uphold the traditions of the college.

This is a pretty large order, and so far, no court has been able to fill it. The Student Council seems to be on the right track in searching for a solution. We hope they can succeed. They are the court’s last chance.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF B. Millner

BUSINESS MANAGER Charlie Rowe

Associate Editors Tom Colvin, Ervin Duggan

Feature Editor Leonard Richardson

Copy Editor Jack Hand

Managing Editors David Jordan, Bob Moore, Jerry Abernathy, Don Saunders, Russ Showalter

Sports Editor Bill Godwin

Photographers Gene Wells

Advertising Manager Olin Nisbet

Circulation Manager Butler Bennett

Assistant Bus. Manager Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Editor Abandons Paper’s Campus Polls; Predicts Winner By Scientific Astrology

By LEONARD RICHARDSON Davidsonian Feature Editor

Nearly eight thousand university, college, and prep school students in institutions in five states favor Nixon over Kennedy.

During the past three weeks, THE DAVIDSONIAN has compiled the results of polls on twelve campuses.

NINE FAVOR GOP

The students polled endorsed the Republican ticket with 55 per cent of their total vote. The Democrats trailed with 42 per cent. Of the eleven schools which sent results of their student mock elections or polls to THE DAVIDSONIAN, nine favored Nixon and only two supported Kennedy.

Eastern Carolina Teachers College in Greenville, North Carolina came out for Kennedy by a three to one vote. Lander College in Greenwood, South Carolina gave the Senator from Massachusetts a narrow victory.

The nine other student bodies in North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, and Tennessee endorsed Vice President Nixon. A pollster at Emory University found 99 students for Nixon, 99 for Kennedy, and two undecided.

SMILE LOSES

Since Winthrop and Salem Colleges supported Nixon, it seems that Kennedy’s smile was not enough to woo a majority of feminine voters at these two colleges.

Hampden-Sydney and Davidson, two Presbyterian liberal arts colleges for men, seemed to indicate that they want to see a Republican in the White House for the next four years.

What does this pre-election Nixon victory in nine colleges mean? THE DAVIDSONIAN obtained this information during the last critical week of the campaign.

Despite this trend in certain Southern schools toward Nixon, we would be wary to base a prediction concerning the outcome of the election on this alone. Let us derive a prediction from a strictly astrological approach. The outcome of the election might be revealed beforehand by a study of the in-Sampling of polls by using information. TRY ASTROLOGY America’s most famous pollster, Dr. George Gallup, sees the race as his greatest challenge in 25 years of soothsaying. Does the amateur who attempts to predict the next president have a chance in the realms of pollster Gallup and public opinion reporter Samuel Lubell? Since the apparent answer is negative, it might be wise to attack the question from another angle. It might be interesting, if not entirely logical, to forget about the polls and news magazines and try astrology.

Richard Milhous Nixon was born on January 9, 1913, in Yorba Linda, California, 33N53, 117W48. He was born under the constellation Leo, the Lion, ruled by the Sun, because this constellation was crossing the eastern horizon (Ascendant) at the stated time of birth.

FAVORS KENNEDY
There is a remarkable triple conjunction of Mars, Mercury, and Jupiter in the natal horoscopes of both Kennedy and Nixon. John Fitzgerald Kennedy was born on May 29, 1917, at Brookline, Massachusetts, 42N20, 71W08. Thus he was born under the rising of the constellation Virgo, making Mercury his ruling star.

The four pairs of astrological charts for November 8 must be computed for the actual place of residence of Nixon and Kennedy on that date. We have no option but to compute all quotidians for the exact geographical coordinates of Washington, D.C., on the assumption that they will both be there at noon EST.

Nixon’s natal quotation (N.Q.)—his ordinary progressed horoscope, corrected by the Bija—shows the progressed moon applying to the direct opposition of Saturn, which is close to the Midheaven. Transiting Pluto is in opposition to the progressed Sun. The progressed Jupiter, significator of one’s status and prestige, suffers the transits of the two malefics Mars and Saturn in mutual opposition. The transiting Uranus is on the Ascendant, and no benefics are in the immediate foreground.

BAD FOR DICK
These movements look very ominous for Nixon. Examining Nixon's regressed horoscope (N.Q. Reg.), we note two situations. First, the regressed Sun is in exact opposition to regressed Saturn. Second, transiting Venus is on regressed Jupiter and Mercury is (Continued On Page Four).

STUDENT POLLS GIVE EDGE TO NIXON
A sampling of polls by using information from replies received to requests for information about the subject which were sent to a large number of schools early in October, and on poll results published in exchange newspapers mailed to THE DAVIDSONIAN before Wednesday of this week.

Since dozens of schools are waiting until this week to hold mock elections or polls, the data does not give any allowance for voters who have changed their minds during this period.

SCHOOL
Appalachian State Teachers
Charlotte College
Chattanooga University
Davidson
Eastern Carolina
Emory
Hampden-Sydney
Lander College
McCallie School
Salem
Washington and Lee
Winthrop

TOTALS
FOR NIXON
864
229
221
189
618
99
86
188
79
160
133
427

3293

FOR KENNEDY
903
316
288
481
219
99
259
164
385
170
426
495

4205

OTHERS
0
2
25
133
12
2
28
13
4
2
5
20

246

TOTAL
1767
547
534
793
849
200
373
355
468
332
564
942

7744

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Let’s Talk These Matters Over, Reader Urges Faculty, Students
Mansell

Dear Editor:
For some time now a state of war has prevailed between faculty and students over the fraternity system. The faculty has waved the big stick of sophomore rush, and the fraternities have responded with half-hearted resolutions and proposals which don’t hold water. How long will this continue? Until everyone realizes that this is not the way to go about making constructive changes!

Dr. Lehmann stated in one of his informal discussions that there should be a healthy and continuing dialogue between faculty and fraternities. This means sitting down together to discuss matters of common concern. It means being willing to seriously evaluate the purposes of these two groups and the means by which these purposes are achieved. If there is objection to or question about some phase of the programs, let that phase be laid open and discussed pro and con. If the reasons against some element of a system outweigh the reasons for it, then mutually agree that a change is necessary. In the same manner, when reasons in favor outweigh arguments against, it can be safely concluded that part of the program is the best possible at the present time.

Can't faculty and students sit down and discuss matters seriously and intelligently? It will mean that both parties will have to be willing to compromise and give in a little on occasions for the good of the entire campus. This is the way it ought to be. Let's agree on a continuing state of peaceful dialogue, rather than unconditional victory or defeat for either party.

W. Frank Mansell, Jr.

Elvery

Dear Editor:
I believe your sports editor stepped out of line on October 14 when he played with politics in his ditty entitled “Two ‘Sports’ for President.” Not only did he politic but he committed the unpardonable sin of slandering RICHARD E. (sic) NIXON by not presenting the full picture. In his attempt to portray Kennedy as an athlete, he failed to note NIXON played football for Whittier College. I sincerely hope in the future you will keep politics on the editorial page and sports alone on the sports page.

Dudley J. Elvery

TWENTY-FOUR HOURS FROM NOW (I’LL BE EATING SUPPER AGAIN...)
ITS NICE TO HAVE THE SECURITY OF A WELL-REGULATED LIFE!

MIGHTY METAMORPHOSIS
Grueling 6 Weeks Change Freshman Into ‘Gentleman’
By JIM TANNER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Six rigorous weeks have elapsed... collapsed... since the portals of ye merrie olde Davidson opened for the 1960-61 term. In this period a horde of bright-eyed, rosy-cheeked innocents have metamorphosed into sleepy-eyed, rosy-nosed cynics.

Being a member of this now scraggly little bunch—commonly called freshmen—I too have experienced this change. In the process I have acquired quite a few impressions that will remain with me for the rest of time. Here are a few of them.

—Seeing the crowd pouring from the football stadium—at the half.
—Hearing the roar of the Davidson rooters—all nine of them.
—Hearing the crash of a rifle bolt going home—through a thumb.
—Smelling the aroma of Mr. Slater’s delicacies—and they taste almost as good as they smell.
—Seeing all the interesting films—on my tea, coffee, utensils.
—Feeling a cooling splash of water—from a bursting balloon stuffed in my pillow.
—Lapsing into a peaceful sleep—while trying to answer a question in class.
—Participating in experiments conducted on the limits of the human eardrum—by the guy across the hall. His apparatus is simple: a radio whose volume has a minimum decibel level of twenty.
—Feeling the crunch of gravel under my feet—as I walk across my room.
—Seeing, during homecoming, a girl gracefully descend the steps of Belk—while sitting down.
—Getting a cake in the cake race—just before I quit breathing.
—Seeing a magnificent ten-foot broad jump—executed head first because of a rumpled gym mat.
—Seeing my hall counselor taking a shower—upside down—without disrobing.
—Exulting in making a good grade—at last.
—Discovering what they were doing in the bathroom with the Saran-Wrap—too late.
—Learning how to turn off the alarm every morning—without waking up.
—Counting all my money—out.

These are some of the incidents that have destroyed my former ideas of college. Gone are visions of clear-eyed, clean-cut young men of high ideals and a thirst for knowledge. Gone are the visions of dean’s lists, of organized study, of extracurricular activities. In their place stands a Davidson man: bleary-eyed, unshaven, uninterested in all save getting through the next class, sleeping, eating, and leaving at every opportunity.

The first six weeks are past; the mold is made, the die is cast. A new creature emerges from the shell of the old freshman—a creature that lives by the laws of the jungle. Survival of the fittest is the prevailing motto, so watch out... sucker.

AND THEN, TWENTY-FOUR HOURS AFTER THAT I'LL BE EATING SUPPER AGAIN!