Che Davidsonian — THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 1960 (All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A General Prospectus

THE DAVIDSONIAN has changed hands for the third time since April 1, 1959, and each change has resulted in different, and often conflicting, editorial policies. We will not attempt to lay out a platform itemizing our editorial projects for 1960-61. Instead, we present here a rather general, overall view of our editorial plans.

Four men, including the Editor, his assistant, and two Associate editors will make up the editorial staff. We hope that from this group, a broader range of opinion will emerge—that the editorial columns will not be the fruit of one man’s thoughts.

We feel that we can accomplish nothing by warming over old arguments on the integration-segregation issue. We feel, however, that free discussion of the problem is necessary to its solution. We will not hesitate to take a stand when new developments arise. Our attitude is much the same toward athletic policy. We will state our position and stick by it, but we see no need to harp on it for the rest of the semester.

We feel that there are several issues which should not be discussed in these columns until they have been carefully researched. The reader often gets mere opinion rather than statistics for proof, and concrete suggestions for action. The enlarged editorial staff can more easily handle the carefully studied editorial and its background material. This spring we hope to give thorough study to the quality of chapel programs and the possibility of either improving, or cutting down on the number of exercises per week. Later we will present our findings and conclusions on the question of comprehensive examinations. We will investigate the present requirements for the basic ROTC course. Should freshmen who are not eligible for the advanced program be forced to spend two years taking the basic course?

We feel that a key issue this year is the student council. Having reached a sort of passive crisis, it can only strengthen itself; it must expand its sphere of influence. If it maintains the status quo, it might as well cease to exist.

THE DAVIDSONIAN will continue to be a crusading newspaper; a newspaper that doesn’t campaign for what it believes isn’t worth its salt. But we will remember that this is a newspaper, not a propaganda sheet. We will limit our crusades to the editorial page and leave the rest to the news.

The Bastard Amendment

Last week, in what was his last major, official action as President of the Student Body, Dee Green passed his election amendment. It all began back in the spring of '59, when practically the same amendment, calling for a more streamlined election procedure, was passed the same day Green took office. Unfortunately, there was a small oversight, and amendment No. One was omitted from the constitution. It might be interesting to note that the Honor Court, which has been trying cases for a year, was also omitted from Green's personal copy of the constitution.

So Green drew up amendment No. Two and introduced it in chapel. It was to be voted on during chapel on Friday, March 25. There was no chapel that day. The bastard amendment finally found its way into the fraternity houses last Friday night—when the elections were halfway finished. Amendment No. Two passed by a wide margin.

And there was an injustice, too. A hundred Independents, who are represented on the Student Council (new president) and even have a non-voting seat in the IFC, were not given ballots. Well, they probably would have voted against it anyway. It was an ordeal, and Dee Green is glad it’s over. So are we.

Not An Endorsement ...

A fascinating little behind-the-scenes drama ended this week with the announcement that the YMCA, not Westminster Fellowship, will sponsor the long-postponed lunch counter sit-down forum Tuesday evening in the Union Ballroom.

Why not Westminster Fellowship? The session of the College Church, fearing that the planned WF program might be construed as an endorsement of the sit-downs, denied WF the use of the student lounge of the church. Despite the students’ assurance that the program was to be an inquiry, not an endorsement, the cautious session vetoed the meeting.

Now Davidson's staid Presbyterian Church is assured that no students will use its facilities to undermine The Southern Way of Life. The Church is free of subversive taint. Or is it?

When last year a Catholic priest appeared before WF to discuss his faith, the meeting was held in the student lounge. Is this not to be construed as an endorsement of Romanism and its evils? Is this not enough to inspire dark fears of popery among Protestants?

Later in the year a Unitarian minister spoke to WF — in the student lounge. Unitarians, it is well-known, have a tendency to free thought, and many of them sniff at The Doctrine of the Trinity. Was the WF program a subtle endorsement of such heresies? Why else would good Presbyterian boys sponsor such a meeting?

We suggest that Westminster Fellowship in producing such programs is not promoting heresy but seeking knowledge. And perhaps the appearance of Johnson C. Smith students at a WF meeting is not so much an effort to mongrelize the White Race as to give all students an opportunity to hear varied opinions on one of the hottest issues of the day.

We deplore the action of the session. It smacks of fear. It indicates a regrettable tendency of the church to stay on the safest side of all controversy — something its Founder never did. It suggests that the church—even in the academic community—is uncomfortable with the free search for knowledge.

Worst of all, the session action reveals that the church is guarding its public image—and this is a form of idolatry all-too-prevalent here at Davidson.

E.S.D.

BUSINESS MANAGER .......... Charlie Rowe
Assistant Editor .......... Tom Colvin
Associate Editors .......... Ervin Duggan, Hob Moore
Managing Editors .......... David Jordan, Don Saunders
Sports Editor .......... Bill Godwin
Assignments Editor .......... Russ Showalter
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF .......... B. Millner
Feature Editor .......... Ran Shaffner
Copy Editor .......... Jack Hand
Cartoonists .......... Ackerman Cole
Advertising Manager .......... Olin Nisbet
Circulation Manager .......... Mac McClure
Assistant Bus. Manager .......... Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

THE STUDENT SOLDIER: II

Adams: We’re Training The “Unbeatable Generation”

(Editor’s Note: This is the second in a series of four articles on Military Training at Davidson.)

By ERVIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

The Professor of Military Science and Tactics reached into his desk drawer and fished out a pink slip of paper. “I copied this down,” he said, grinning. “I collect little things out of newspapers and magazines, and I think this expresses our feelings about ROTC pretty well.

“John Mason Brown told the boys at Groton in a commencement address that they must ‘earn the right to be the unbeatable generation.’ That’s what we’re trying to do here at Davidson.”

PHILOSOPHY

Colonel Bill Adams was discussing a question put by the DAVIDSONIAN: What is the “philosophy of education” of the ROTC department — and how does it relate to the role of the liberal arts college?

DUAL MISSION

“We've got a dual mission charged by Congress — to provide junior army officers and to promote intelligent, responsible citizenship. In wartime, of course, the first takes priority; in peacetime, the other. Now we're stressing the second goal here.”

NO CONFLICT

He leaned forward, glancing at some papers on his desk. “I've looked up a definition of some words like ‘liberal,’ ‘college’, and ‘liberal arts’, to refresh my memory so I won't distort the purpose of liberal education. And I don’t see any conflict between our goals and the liberal arts goals.

AND NO PLUMBERS

“I've been reading Whitney Griswold’s book on liberal arts education, and as I interpret it, liberal education isn’t an end in itself—but it’s not to make plumbers, either.

“It’s a preparation for living — equipping students to deal with the life they'll live. In an ideal situation, where there were no drafts, nothing forced on us, ROTC wouldn't fit. But where you're in a world situation like ours, you’ve got to deal with the problem.

IT’S IMPORTANT

“I think ROTC's an important thing. We need it. It’s equipping the student for something he must face—military service.

“You take a boy coming through Davidson. What's the best thing for him? He must face military service. Isn’t it best for the country that he be put where he can do the best for himself and his country?”

ROTC CHANGES

The colonel paused. We asked about the new ROTC curriculum changes. Are they designed to bring ROTC

Landscaping by Shue...

The Great Easter Bunny Scandal: “ABC” Shoots Down On Cappie

ONLY IN DAVIDSON

By BILL ARMSTRONG

Once upon a time, there lived a little woman who was beloved by everyone. Her name was Cappie and she sold beer. Her little house by the side of the road opened its doors to all weary travelers. Here men of all sections of the country gathered to discuss great issues and enjoy the friendship and hospitality of the kind little woman.

A WISE MOTHER

To the homeless, Cappiewas a mother, wise with understanding. To the friendless, Cappie was a companion, compassionate and believing. To the weak, Cappie was strength; to the strong she was a guiding force. Cappie was all things to all men. She was a living example of the Declaration of Independence; for in Cappie was indeed life, liberty, and above all, the pursuit of happiness. To Cappie, all weary travelers became “my boys.” She mothered them as no real mother would have done. She never complained when they put their feet on the furniture. She was always ready with a cold beer when they came in hot and tired.

“ACTIVE” BOYS

At times, “Cappie’s boys” became a little too rambunctious. In their enthusiasm, they would pile obstacles in the road so that other travelers would have to turn from the beaten path and meet their beloved Cappie. And if the traveler insisted upon traveling the lonely road, then they would good-naturedly throw a few beer cans after him—to speed him on his journey. But it was this harmless and well-intended play that caused the black shadow to be cast over the happy abode of Cappie’s. For one night in April, just before Easter, there hopped through the door of Cappie’s, a rabbit.

DANDRUFFY TAIL

He was an old rabbit, his nose was red, his eyes bleary and bloodshot, and his tail had dandruff, but he possessed enough dignity to cause the “boys” to become silent as he limped painfully across the floor. With a great effort, the rabbit hopped up on the bar and turned toward Cappie. Looking her in the eye, the rabbit shook his head solemnly and said, “I'm sorry, but I must prohibit you from selling beer from henceforth and forevermore.” The “boys” were too shocked to speak, but Cappie calmly asked the rabbit, “Why? What have I done? My boys haven't bothered a single person.”

ANIMALS COMPLAIN

“You don’t understand,” the rabbit said. “It’s not the people who are complaining, it’s the animals. Not far from here are some busy old hens who claim that the beer cans you throw beside the road are bothering them in their pursuit of worms. And three old jackasses have complained that they have to pull the cars back on the road after you have run them off with your obstacles. But the worst offense is to the rabbits,” and here the poor old rabbit gazed fearlessly around the room. “The male rabbits of this area have gotten into the habit of licking the beer cans which you throw and 95% of the male rabbit population has become alcoholic.

ABC STEPS IN

“Now with Easter only days away, there is no one to paint the eggs and carry the goodies but a bunch of sotted rabbits. And so, as a member of the ABC—Alcoholic Bunny Control—I must ask you to please leave, peacefully.”

“And if we won't leave,” questioned one of the “boys.”

“Then I must use force,” the rabbit replied, and he glanced toward the door. There, just inside the room, stood six skunks, their tails raised, their meaning all too clear. Within twenty minutes Cappie found herself alone. The old rabbit was the only one left.

WHAT NOW?

“What shall I do now?” Cappie moaned to the rabbit. “I’m lost without my boys.”

“Perhaps,” the rabbit replied, “there will be another chance when your boys learn to keep their cans inside. But who can tell? Only one thing do I know. You must remember to always be very careful when you are dealing with old hens and skunks and jackasses.” And the old rabbit jumped from the bar and was gone.

He grinned again. “Yes, and I'm charmed with the new program. Of course, we can’t claim credit for all of this. The college had been asked for its views by the national ROTC Board—made up of college presidents—about a plan like this.

D. C. AHEAD

“But Davidson has always been way ahead, just like when we went to three hours of instruction a week instead of four. We feel that to keep on a high level of instruction here we must avoid pure mechanics—make the whole course more intellectually challenging.”

“Our big clearance has already come. And this does a lot of fine things. You used to graduate with twenty hours of ROTC. Now you have fourteen hours of ROTC and six hours of academic courses for which we give ROTC credit. Without hurting the ROTC student we've opened up six hours of credit for courses he may want.

NO FLAG-WAVING

“I’m sold on Davidson, and I think ROTC’s valuable. We're not waving flags or anything—but we're a patriotic people and we're interested in doing what's best for the boy and for the country.”

THE PROMISE OF TOMORROW

MECHANICAL FACULTY TRIES WAYWARD BROTHER'S CRIME

By KNOX ABERNETHY

(Editor’s Note: The following article was submitted recently to Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity. It is reprinted here, not as a reflection of any editorial views, but as humorous fiction.)

A mechanical band switched on the power, and the Faculty lighted up. An ancient ceremonial pipe was plugged into a socket in each of the electronic brains, and they began puffing blue smoke; Bible droned the traditional prayer to Trustee. Then the mechanical voice of Administration announced, “Let the Faculty of Dana University convene on this the Third Day of Roosevelt to give trial to our cherished brother who is accused of gross crime.”

“I second that,” agreed Student Office.

“Then let the accused present itself before the Faculty.”

“I second that,” agreed Student Office.

In the room whirred the accused computer, its console lights flashing thoughtfully and its ammeter needle twitching nervously. Bible moaned, “Do you swear to tell that which comforts and only that which comforts, in so far as you know Administration policy?”

“I do.”

Administration blared, “You will answer the following charges: You have or have not denied the verbal inspiration of DeMille?”

“Sirs,” the accused protested, “I have merely expressed doubt as to the historicity of ‘The Greatest Show on Earth’; I certainly do not deny the entire canon!”

Bible flashed all its console lights and readjusted the horizontal hold of its telescreen. Administration proceeded. “You have or have not stated that you think beings from other planets should be admitted to Dana University?”

“Yes, I have,” exclaimed the accused loudly, “and I still say that just because they have six heads doesn’t mean they aren’t just as good as earth students.”

Classics melted a leader and burned six tapes of ablative absolutes. Administration, after blowing a series of smoke rings, sternly recited the third accusation. “Did you or did you not gaze upon the University, Eye Eff See?”

“I did,” the accused replied, “and with my own camera, too. And, if you don’t mind my saying so, it could use a good dusting.”

Mathematics burped twelve feet of log tables.

“Listen to that!” shrieked the brassy voice of History. “Why do you know it doesn’t even accept the Sacrament of the Familynight Supper?”

“And last New Year’s Eve I caught it running on Direct Current,” boomed Biology. “It was disgraceful—spelling out dirty numbers with its console lights and singing bawdy 60 cycle hums!”

“Gentlemen!” Administration blasted. “Let us remember that we are gathered here to hold a fair trial for our cherished brother.” (It turned down its volume.) “Now then, are there any further charges?”

“I’d just like to say,” added Student Office, “that the accused has not been acting like our type of folks.”

“Fine,” growled Administration. “Now gentlemen, the time has come for you to determine the verdict. Let me remind you that the fate of one of our most cherished brothers is hanging in the balance. Therefore give the most careful consideration to your decision, remembering that your opinion must be pledged in full. Let me also remind you that it’s getting on towards six o’clock.”

Instantly the numbers flashed on the scoreboard—thirty to nothing; guilty. Administration delivered the sentence. “Cherished brother, having been found guilty of deliberate violation of the System, you are sentenced to immediate dismantling. However, as a cherished brother, you may be joyful in the knowledge that you will be dismantled in a spirit of charity and good faith.”

A hysterical scream rang through the room, and an old scientist rushed feebly to the side of the doomed computer. The machine soothed the sobbing man with a sad, but steady voice, “It's all right Dad. You can build another computer—bigger and better than all the rest of us put together.”

A drop of oil rolled down Administration’s control panel, “Tell the dismantling crew to save the identification plate so the old man will have something to remember it by.” The scientist was silently led away, and the doomed computer dutifully whirred away to its death.

“THERE'S ONLY ONE THING WRONG WITH THIS... THE RAIN KEEPS RUNNING DOWN MY NOSE INTO MY EYES!”