Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Why Your Date Is Gray

Well, Mr. Snow King: 

Dear Joe,

I'm so thrilled about the weekend, I just can't wait. My train will arrive in Lexington, North Carolina, about five o'clock Friday. I hope it won't inconvenience you to meet me. The man at the train station said he couldn't find a TOWN named Davidson, but that Lexington is in Davidson COUNTY, so it must not be far. I didn’t realize Davidson was so near the Tennessee line. Well, I'll be looking for you Friday. I can't wait!

Love, Sue

Dear Tom,

I hate to say this, but I MAY not be able to come to Davidson after all. I have overcut my art class, but I just may be able to get Mr. Josephs to let me off. It’s doubtful, but I just MAY be able to come, so sit tight until Friday morning and I'll let you know. I can’t find out ‘til then, as Mr. Josephs (my art teacher) is having a one-man show in Baltimore and won’t return until Friday. Please don’t worry, though, because there’s a chance that I can come. But then again I may not be able to. You know how it is.

Hopefully, Judy

Dear Arnold,

Jack told me you wanted a blind date, so I got to work and have gotten you a wonderful date. Her name is Bertha Hagman, and I just know you'll love her. She is a senior, very tall and slender, and she wears the most unusual clothes. We all just love her, she is so unusual, so intellectual and all. She is a pre-med here at Peace, and is considered an expert on drosophila (that’s fruit flies). Bertha is so excited and nervous about the weekend, as it is her first college dance weekend, so I do hope you'll be nice to her. Can’t wait to see you.

As ever, Evelyn

P.S. Is there any way you can get an extra-length bed for Bertha? She says it’s not absolutely essential, but she’s more comfortable when she can stretch out full length.

Dear Phil,

I've solved the transportation problem! As you know, Mother wanted to visit me up here this weekend, and my trip to Davidson interfered. Well, now she’s offered to drive me down and visit some friends in Charlotte. So, I’ll be able to come after all. Isn’t that great?

Love, Sue

Dear Joe,

Did you think I was utterly stupid? I have just been informed that you are dating Ursula Laplant from here, after telling me all those lies about your dental appointment this weekend. You may rest assured that I will not be seeing you again.

Sincerely, Jane

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

The Campus: Monument To Hobart

For thirty-six years, Mr. Don Hobart served Davidson as the college supervisor of buildings and grounds, in a labor of love which made Davidson's campus a showplace the year ‘round. When he came to the campus in 1925, Davidson was a place of muddy roads, sparse and unkempt grass, and few flowers. Mr. Hobart changed that. He created the dogwood grove behind the Martin Science Building, and shrubbery all across the campus; he made a garden out of Davidson’s eighty acres.

Students remember seeing the gentle smiling man tending his flowers behind Belk Dormitory, cutting the best blooms to place in vases at the College Union. They remember his weary resignation upon seeing the new paths students made across freshly planted grass, his amusement when even bramble bushes didn’t stop the path-makers. They remember a man dedicated to his work—and happy in it.

There is an old Latin inscription which translates, “If you seek his monument, look about you.” No more fitting epitaph could be found for Mr. Hobart. The entire campus family is saddened by his sudden death.

E. S. D.

Where Do We Stand?

For weeks now, the IFC and the fraternities have played hot potato with proposals and revised proposals and revisions of revised proposals. For three weeks in a row, this newspaper has headlined some new effort to do something about Sophomore Rush. We think it’s high time someone did something about Sophomore Rush. We like to know how things stand.

After failing three times in a row to come up with a solid alternative to the Sophomore Rush plan, the fraternity system has placed its hopes in the hands of the freshman pledge class presidents. This is the IFC’s last chance—they know that some sort of proposal must be presented to the faculty at its next regular meeting—and that’s November 8.

Meanwhile, there has been no confirmation from the Hill that Sophomore Rush really is going to be put into effect. Why should we expect confirmation?

—If for no other reason than the fact that the fraternities, though disunited and self-centered, have very obviously declared war on the deferred rush system.

—Because five members of the faculty’s liberal wing, who helped put Sophomore Rush through, are no longer with us. Furthermore, a solid old guard clique on the faculty is opposed to Sophomore Rush and might possibly swing another vote on the issue in the opposite direction.

—Because President Martin has never given his official, unqualified approval of the new system. Many students have inferred from his statements on several occasions that he is not an enthusiastic supporter of Sophomore Rush.

—The administration has not encouraged the fraternity system to make any preparations for the deferred system, although it must realize that without help from the fraternities, Sophomore Rush will be a dismal flop. Nor has the administration announced any concrete preparations for making changes in the college plant that must be made if the new system is to succeed.

We suggest that the fraternity system make some concessions and come up with a system that will approach the goals that Sophomore Rush was set up to achieve. The fraternities have already discarded two possibilities. We suggest that the faculty accept a compromise or re-affirm their initial decision. We'd like to know where we stand. We're weary of piddling around.

Nostalgia: Broads In The Balcony

Remember the good old days when we had Friday Chapel and everybody got the dance weekend off to a properly rowdy start? Remember when Dr. Davidson let the chickens loose, and still further back, when the legendary Slim Regen created such a stir just trying to find his seat that the speaker had to ask his permission to continue? Remember how we used to impress the girls in the balcony with our ungentlemanly conduct during those Friday-of-dance-weekend chapels?

But the Friday-of-dance-weekend chapels have gone the way of the freshman riot. Guess it’s a good thing, too. Everybody used to gripe about having to come to chapel on the day the weekend started. But you know, everybody came, and brought his date if she was here, and there were fewer cuts turned in that day than any other day in the semester. Don’t you suppose it might be possible to change the Monday student assembly to Friday on dance weekends?

The Real Heroes

The real heroes of this weekend have likely been forgotten. Homecoming was started a long time ago not because of the dances, or the after-dance parties or even because of the girls, but because of a football game. Now, it seems that the game has become an afterthought. There are a few people who won't even bother to come back from Hattie’s to see it.

Some 35 boys are willing to sacrifice a good bit to play the game that Homecoming is built around. They’re willing to give as good as they've got against teams that out-man and out-gun them. And yet a few people insist on making crude jokes about moral victories and losing so many games in a row. School spirit is no abstract, nebulous thing. You measure it simply by how loud people can yell. We don’t think we've given up on the ’Cats. We know the ’Cats haven’t given up on themselves. They’re the real heroes.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF B. Millner
BUSINESS MANAGER Charlie Rowe
Associate Editors Tom Colvin
Feature Editor Leonard Richardson
Ervin Duggan
Copy Editor Jack Hand
Bob Moore
Photographers Gene Wells
Managing Editors David Jordan
Don Saunders
Russ Showalter
Sports Editor Bill Godwin
Jerry Abernathy
Advertising Manager Olin Nisbet
Circulation Manager Butler Bennett
Assistant Bus. Manager Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Homecoming Classic .... by Bob Cole, ’50

By Dr. S. D. Maloney

Any writing about Archibald MacLeish’s Pulitzer Prize-winning drama in verse “J.B.” involves three great works: the Hebrew Wisdom book Job of the sixth century B.C., the play “J.B.” which was published in 1956 and produced on the stage...In 1958, and the 1959 recording performance by the Broadway cast which reflects the r.. “J.B.” and its current strength. When asked why he wrote “J.B.,” MacLeish—a man admittedly “committed to no creed”—replied: “The Book of Job is the only great ancient myth that contains the problem of today, the voice of man crying out for reason and justice in the Universe... the worst fear is that the Universe is meaningless.” For MacLeish, Job's awful ordeal matches the mass suffering of modern life.

JOB OF 1960

In his play as written and recorded, MacLeish has not duplicated but transposed the Biblical Job into a corporation executive, the shallow, smug here for those blind defenses you created, pal. Maloney Reviews "J.B.": Contrasts Play With Job seems a discordant note in “J.B.” J.B. and Sarah despair of divine justice and divine love and with humility and courage choose to live by the light of love in the human heart. At this point, the playwright reveals a sensitive discovery: more faith is often needed to start over in life than to accept destruction.

Patterson’s

But if one is dissatisfied with MacLeish’s ending, one is also dissatisfied with the ending of Job. The answer to human suffering is just not forthcoming. The God of Job is the God above the God of orthodox theology. He is a God who need not bow before the bar of humanly conceived justice. Paul Tillich would call Him “Ultimate God.” Of Him J.B. simply says “He Is.”

aunts) and pictures of bring me to Davidson and spend the weekend there. Isn't that sweet? We can get a room at a motel, so let somebody else take your dorm room. Mother says she’s anxious to see how the younger generation have a good time, and she’s looking forward to meeting you. Love, Frances

The Guest

MRS. J. B. MOORE

Editor's will tell Ursula a thing or two about you and your line. I will tell her EVERYTHING you have said to me, as she is an innocent and defenseless girl who is not accustomed to handling snakes in the grass. Consider this goodbye FOREVER. Mildred

Editor's Note: Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories, is using the guest column this week as an open letter—of warning and advice—to Homecoming dates. It's pleasant to have your beauty on campus once again and to have the halls of Belk permeated with perfume instead of eau de sweat socks. Your presence here is apparent by the delight on the students’ faces and the concern on the faculty’s.

The residents of Belk and New Dorms don't really object to moving out to make room for you, they really enjoy the ‘togetherness’ of five or six men in a two-man room. Anyhow, where else could they find wall-to-wall mattressing?

Do find out where your date is staying over the weekend so we can locate him in case you're sitting in the lounge of Belk with your luggage on Sunday morning at 10 a.m. with a 10:30 plane to catch. Our students have varied interests—some are nature lovers and sometimes they forget to take their frogs out of their wastebaskets on dance weekends. If you find one in your room, I hope you will give it the proper treatment.

Also, we have devotees of great art and if there appear to be barren spaces on the walls it’s because these students have removed their great masterpieces for the weekend lest some unforeseen accident happens to them. Then we have students not sure if it concerns Freud or Edison, interested in research. I'm but tape recorders have been known to be so contrived as to start recording with the sound of the human voice. I hope there won't be any little whirring noises in your room.

I’m always delighted to see the neatness of the students’ desks when dance weekends are here. They usually are strewn with letters (from their mothers and girls (their sisters of course) but these seem to disappear as if by magic. I wish you girls would come every weekend!

Homecoming is a hectic but very happy time with three days full of activities, dances, concerts, and football games. I hope my Davidson Gentlemen will see that you have a lovely time and that a weekend at Davidson will be one of your most treasured memories.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Politicking Evokes Student Praise, Condemnation

Godwin, Murdoch

Dear Editor:

After reading the article written by Dr. Patterson in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN, we, the left-wingers, are inclined to agree with him that neither of the presidential candidates shows the necessary leadership that the office requires.

We are further convinced that Dr. Patterson is the only man sufficient to lead this people's republic to the culmination of the American ideals that were half-heartedly begun under Franklin D. Roosevelt.

Dr. Patterson says that neither candidate's religion is deep enough to have any influence on his behavior. We agree and assert that the less religion a candidate has, the better. Realizing the lack of able leaders in this country, we feel that as vice-president, Fidel Castro, who is not a nonentity, would not only add strength to the ticket but would help get this country out of its economic turmoil as he has done in Cuba.

Our foreign policy is weak. President Eisenhower's conduct should be more like that exhibited by Premier Khrushchev last week at the United Nations where he delivered a series of diplomatic defeats from which we will never recover in the eyes of the world. We must reduce our arms whether Russia does or not to show the other countries of the world our good intentions. After this brilliant victory, we could delight the world by abolishing war, thereby restoring the prestige we once enjoyed.

We must not use anti-communism as our foreign policy so that the new nations of the world will be won over to us by our great moral fiber alone. We agree that we must not support American private enterprise overseas because the capitalist pigs do not give to each according to his need. We also know that we must admit Red China to the United Nations and tell the reactionary Chinese on Formosa that they must get out because “A New Day Is Dawning.”

We enlightened ones feel that the farmer in America must submit himself to absolute government control in order to do his part for the state. We believe that Dr. Patterson will not only prevent depressions but recessions as well. Of course, we realize that it will be necessary that he be given unlimited funds to accomplish this. After all, compatriots, with Patterson and Castro, we have nothing to fear but fear itself.

Claude Godwin
Bob Murdoch

Dillard

Dear Editor:

Men like Ernest Patterson deserve a congressional award for courage (I’m sure such an award would be rejected on principle) when they are willing to express intelligent political and economic views in this area of McCarthyism-run-riot and blind cult-of-loyalty “Americanism.”

I hope Dr. Patterson will not have to pay the traditional price for expressing intelligent views in public (Woodrow Wilson called this price “the darts and arrows of public obloquy”). I also hope he will not have to endure amusing statements from his intellectual inferiors, budding young Robber Barons with early signs of satisfied pot bellies, for one can predict down to the letter what tripe might come from that breed of unimaginative reactionary... “why don't you offer your services to Russia, Dr. Patterson?” or... “why don’t you run for president, Dr. Patterson?”

David H. Dillard

YOU HAVE JUST ONE CHILDHOOD OFFENDED OF IS CHERISHED