PAGE FOUR

Dr. J. I. Hopkins applies the “survey meter” to a cube of radioactive material of the Dana Science Laboratories. (Photo by Wells)

In the new storage room

Atomic Age Arrives On Davidson Campus

“CAUTION,” the triangular pink and yellow sign said. “RADIATION AREA.” The key turned in the lock. I followed Dr. John Hopkins of the Physics Department into what he called the “active radioisotope storage room" in the basement of the Dana Science Laboratories. I glanced down at the yellow box in his hand (survey meter, he called it) and saw the needle swing over. Instinctively I stepped back.

Grinning, Dr. Hopkins motioned me to come ahead. Then he unlatched the probe from the meter and held it before him. The needle swung farther yet. I noticed that we were standing before a small cubicle of concrete blocks, and that whatever was making the meter register was coming from that little box of concrete.

“We've got about half a milliliter of Bismuth-210 in the middle of that cube,” he said. “You can see from the meter that the concrete doesn't provide adequate shielding. It's only temporary, though. I’ve got a shipment of lead bricks in the other room that I haven't unpacked yet, and we'll move those in here before long.”

He turned to leave. By this time I was almost halfway to the door. “Funny thing,” he said. “What most people don’t realize is that they are exposed every day to atomic radiation, but in such small amounts that it doesn’t upset the body processes.”

He turned out the light and closed the door, checking to be sure it was locked. “Take that sample in there. It's a highly radioactive source, but it’s such a small amount that you could sit on that box for an hour without any harm. The radiation you would receive is equivalent to what you would normally get in a week just walking around.” I nodded dubiously.

Pulling out the clipping from an old Davidsonian which said that Davidson had received a grant of five thousand dollars from the Atomic Energy Commission, I asked him about it.

“Well, the AEC is interested in developing education in these fields,” he said. “Every year they give a certain amount of money to American colleges and universities for atomic and nuclear laboratories. We applied for ten thousand dollars, but they had to cut the request.”

“One thing, though: they received applications for over six million dollars’ worth of grants, and all they had available was fifty thousand. I think we did pretty well to get five thousand of it.” He leaned back proudly in his chair to observe the effect of this bombshell.

“Five thousand dollars,” I echoed. “That's an awful lot of money.”

“Not when you're buying laboratory equipment,” he countered. “One piece of equipment we bought cost twenty-three hundred dollars.”

“I'd like to get back into research," he went on. “I did a lot of it at Vanderbilt before I came here. With some of this equipment that’s coming in, maybe some good papers will come out of Davidson. You might not believe it, but Davidson can claim more physics history than a lot of colleges can. The first X-ray photograph in the South was taken here, you know. And Sigma Pi Sigma, the national physics honorary society, was founded at Davidson. We're about due for some more history.” He might have a point there.

Kannapolis’ Leading Theatres

GEM
Today and Saturday
“ON THE BEACH”
Fred Astaire
Monday thru Saturday

SWANEE
Today and Saturday
Tom Ewell - Jayne Mansfield
in
“THE GIRL CAN‘T HELP IT”
in Technicolor
—Also—
“GO JOHNNY GO”
Saturday Late Show
Monday thru Wednesday
“THE LAST ANGRY MAN”
Starring Paul Muni

The Davidsonian

News Editor, Board Makes Public Editorial Nominations
By KNOX ABERNETHY

The Publications Board announced the nominations for the editorial positions on March 9. Running for Davidsonian Editorship are “B” Millner, Tom Colvin, Ervin Duggan, and Bob Moore. Script ‘n’ Pranks nominees are Charles Cornwell, Bill Armstrong, and Don Stowell. Bob Gordan, Charles Rose, and Ben Sparks will run for editor of Quips and Cranks. Elections will begin on April 4.

DAVIDSONIAN

“B" Millner is at present sports editor of the paper. He has worked as a sports writer in the past, and during the summer worked for the Concord Tribune. He is an economics and English major from Concord, N.C., and is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

Tom Colvin is at present feature editor for the paper, and has served in the past as news editor and assignment editor. From Anchorage, Kentucky, he is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, of Sigma Upsilon honorary writing fraternity, and has served in the Y.M.C.A. as secretary. His major is English.

Ervin Duggan, of Manning, S.C., is an English major and plans to enter either journalism or law. He now serves as managing editor of the Davidsonian. He has previously held the positions of assistant managing editor and staff writer. He is a member of Alpha Tau Omega and Sigma Upsilon.

Bob Moore is managing editor of the paper and is doing honors work in history, preparing to enter law. Bob is the Alpha Tau Omega representative to the I.F.C., and is from Harrisonburg, Va. He has served as editor of the Alpha Tau Omega newspaper and as assistant managing editor of the DAVIDSONIAN.

SCRIPTS ‘N’ PRANKS

Charles Cornwell is the present editor of Scripts ‘n’ Pranks, and previously has served as an assistant editor. From Lattimore, N.C., he is vice president of Sigma Upsilon, an officer in Alpha Tau Omega, and is doing honors work in English.

Bill Armstrong is an assistant to the editor. He is historian and editor of the newspaper of Phi Gamma Delta. He is from High Point, N.C., is majoring in English, and is planning to enter law.

Assistant editor Don Stowell is vice president of Eumenean Literary Society, president of Sigma Upsilon, and editor of the Pi Kappa Phi newspaper.

Charles Rose has served as photographer for the past two years. A pre-ministerial student and an English major, he has worked for the Fayetteville Observer and for the Raleigh News And Observer and Times. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi and is from Fayetteville, N.C.

Ben Sparks is Fraternity editor of the annual and has served as activities editor. He is alumni secretary for Phi Delta Theta, is majoring in English, and is from Atlanta, Ga.

The Publications Board, which nominated these candidates, is made up of Mr. R. A. Currie, Professor John Kim-

Martin Discusses (Continued From Page One)

quick. There are some swimming scholarships given at other places, like Yale and Michigan, and even a few of the Southern Conference schools, but they are very few. The reason that we are able to have a good swimming season is because swimmers are not being sought after as extensively as football and basketball players. Boys like Smitty Smith, Barry Branch, John Scott, and Tom Hudgins are not here because they got swimming scholarships. I don’t think your hypothesis is valid.”

Presidency (Continued From Page One)

of any of these rules shall be the loss of voting privileges for allindividuals involved and a fine from $30.00 to $100.00 to be levied against all organizations involved.” All voting is being done in the hall outside the old dining room of Chambers. The polls are open from 9 a.m. until 1 p.m. No balloting is being done on Saturday. Results of each day’s voting will be posted on the bulletin boards in Chambers and in the Union and fraternity houses.

FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1960

German Professors Tender Resignations

Last week Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston was notified of possible additional vacancies in the Davidson College faculty for next year. These bring to a possible fourteen the total number of teaching positions to be filled by September in order to maintain the faculty at its present strength for the fall term. Dr. Joseph E. Alexis and Dr. Howard P. French have made known their intentions to resign. On March 4 Dr. Walter L. Robinson tendered his resignation to be effective August 1, 1960.

After having been at Davidson for two years, Dr. Joseph E. Alexis, visiting Professor of Modern Languages, thinks it time to resume the plan he has pursued since retiring from the University of Nebraska six years ago—that of teaching for a brief period at different colleges and universities throughout the country. Dr. Howard P. French, Associate Professor of German, is now considering several offers that will take him out of the classroom into research. His final resignation is contingent upon finding the right opportunity.

Having stated in his resignation that “the decision to resign my position here has been a difficult one for me to reach, but I am now convinced that acceptance of an offer from another institution will constitute such a considerable advancement in my career that it cannot be declined,” Dr. Walter L. Robinson, Assistant Professor of German, will leave Davidson in August to undertake the establishment of a major program at Western Washington College in Bellingham, Washington. Dr. Robinson expressed his gratitude and indebtedness to Davidson College and to the faculty and administration for valuable experience and for frequent help and encouragement.

Expressing regret at these resignations, Dean Johnston made the statement that several vacancies had been definitely filled and that an announcement would be made as soon as all the replacements for the Fall term had been made. Also commenting on the large number of resignations and leaves, Dean Johnston stated that this is a higher number than usual, but that it certainly is no sign that “Davidson is falling apart.”

Army Issues Orders To Sixty-Nine Cadets

Sixty-nine MS IV cadets have received branch assignments from the U.S. Army, the ROTC department recently announced. These cadets will be commissioned upon graduation in May. Twenty-seven students received their first choice assignments. Twenty were granted second choices, twenty received third choice and only two received fifth choices.

The artillery will take 29 cadets. These are: Allen, Avineer, Bentley, Broom, Burgdorf, Dixon, Dulaney, Fordman, Glenn, Hamilton, Herring, Huie, Kinlaw, Lane, McKeithen, Morcock, Morris, Nickles, Pate, Pitts, Rhame, Ridenhour, Riggs, Spivey, Schaum, Thurman, Wearn, Wilkerson, and Wright.

To the Medical Service Corps will go ten cadets. They are: L. Davis, Coffey, Croom, Escue, MacQueen, Roberts, Warden, Warr, Wilsey, and Zimmerman.

Nine cadets were assigned to Armor. They are: Hart and Patterson. To Adjutant General’s Corps: Otten; Signal Corps: Hellier; and Transportation Corps: W. K. Davis.

Of the cadets to be commissioned, thirty-nine plan to ask for a deferment in order to do graduate work. Twenty-nine prefer to serve six months, while forty-two prefer two years.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

We'd like to admit right here and now that the main reason we run advertisements like this is to get you, dear reader, to drink Coca-Cola to the virtual exclusion of all other beverages. The sooner you start going along with us, the sooner we'll both begin to get more out of life.

BE REALLY REFRESHED
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, N.C.

COPYRIGHT 1997 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

INTERVIEWS

March 14 — Irving Trust Co.
Wachovia Bank
March 15— General Electric
March 16—Prudential Ins. Co.
R. J. Reynolds
March 17—Travelers Ins. Co.
March 18 — General Telephone Co. of the Southeast
Citizens & Southern Nat'l. Bank.

SENIORS!! What are you looking for in a Career?
© TOP PAY
© SECURITY
© ADVANCEMENT
© PRESTIGE
YOU can get all FIVE as an ACCOUNT EXECUTIVE with Craftsman Printing Company
Charlotte, N.C.
Fastest Growing in Carolina’s Largest City

For Personal Interview on Campus, contact Mr. Shaw Smith at Student Union

A new idea in smoking...
menthol fresh
rich tobacco taste
most modern filter

Salem refreshes your taste just as a glorious Spring morning refreshes you. To rich tobacco taste, Salem adds a surprise softness that gives smoking new ease and comfort. Yes, through Salem’s pure-white, modern filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. Smoke refreshed... smoke Salem! It’s Springtime

ANTON KUERTI
Festival Features American Pianist

The College Artist Series and the Fine Arts Festival will present Anton Kuerti, young American pianist, in Chambers Auditorium next Wednesday at 8:15 p.m. Kuerti’s concert will have an emphasis on music of the Romantic period. Kuerti, born in Vienna, was trained in this country. He was the 1957 winner of the Leventritt Foundation Award, one of the highest honors offered in the music world. During the past season he has appeared as soloist with seven major symphony orchestras in America. This year he has been playing with the Pittsburgh Symphony, the Phoenix, Reading, Trenton, and Albany symphonies and has appeared in the Distinguished Young Artist Series at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.