FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1969 § A LOOK AT... THE DAVIDSONIAN

Booters Hit Carolina Today
By Bill Godwin

Our Crying Towel—Wet

AS THE DAVIDSONIAN interviewed Coach Bill Dole this week, a little black cocker spaniel wandered into his office. One of
its eyes was bloody red, as if the cocker had been clawed by a cat. It was very appropriate, we
thought, for across the desk sat a man the picture of complete dejection. How else should a coach feel when
his team has lost 12 of its last 14 games and has no hope for the future?

THOUGH HIS words refused defeat, his manner was unmistakable. The Richmond game was his final humiliation. Homecoming. Davidson was struggling
to climb out of the conference cellar, which it shared with the Spiders. Now, with VPI, Lehigh, and Furman left
on our schedule, a repeat of last year’s showing is all but inevitable.

Put Up Or Shut Up

IT’S TIME—it’s been time for a long while—for Davidson to put up or shut up in the Southern Conference. And
the Wildcats haven’t said anything on the football field for more than two years.

DAVIDSON'S — Eddie Crutchfield (72) and Lew Zirkle (86) converge on D’Arrigo (28) during the Richmond game. Other ‘Cats shown
are Grant McRorie (21) and Bob Cordle (42).—(Photo by Wells).

COACH DOLE is an administrator. He doesn’t like to talk about our sterile scholarship aid. That’s in the area of
policy, he says, and that’s a matter for Davidson's Trustees to pass on.

WE HOPE that many of the Trustees witnessed Saturday’s fiasco. We only wish they held a meeting in October, when
the stench of defeat is still potent. Davidson MUST offer more and better football scholarships—or retire from the Southern Conference.

The Facts Of Life

IF THE TRUSTEES do nothing else, they at least can admit the facts of life as they pertain to Davidson
right now. Like the Negro mother, they can tell the Wildcats, “Son, I hate to say this, but you have
no hope of succeeding in football. You are different from the other Southern Conference schools. Your money will not buy
the pretty things that theirs can. But, Son, remember this: Win or lose, it’s how you play the game that
counts.”

RICHMOND, on the other hand, was whooping it up Saturday. The Spiders were looking ahead to next year, when the
first fruits of a new scholarship program come up from the freshman team. A spokesman said, “Now we'll play four
conference games each year for eligibility. The others will be with the big schools—for money.”

A Three-Edged Sword

IT WAS an unproductive Homecoming weekend for the Wildcats from all sides. The harriers lost their first meet of the
season on Friday to Furman. Then on Tuesday the soccer team was blanked by Pfeiffer, 1-0, for its first defeat.
Pfeiffer this year is subsidizing its booters.

BUT THE cross country squad redeemed both losses Tuesday with double wins over Richmond and Pfeiffer. Sterling Martin and Co.
took eight of the first nine places.

For three quarters the ’Cat defense fought off the Spider thrusts with their backs to the wall while waiting for
a cold offense to get underway. But the Wildcats broke open in a wooly fourth quarter which saw a Richmond
team capitalize on “breaks” to turn the contest into a rout as 4,000 Homecoming fans watched.

Davidson scored first on a freak play that saw Grant McRorie pick up a Spider fumble and scoot 94 yards
for the score. Earl Stoudt returned a punt 80 yards for a touchdown early in the second quarter and kicked
the extra point to put Richmond ahead to stay. Richmond added one score in the third quarter and then came
the deluge of 22 points in that nightmarish last quarter for the Wildcats.

Throughout the entire game, the Wildcat offense failed to move the ball, netting only 102 yards. The experiment into the
single wing failed to work and the pressure fell to the stalwart defensive unit. If there could be a bright
spot in this defeat, it was the fine play of the Wildcat defensive secondary of Bob Cordle, Grant McRorie, and
Duncan Morton, who held Spider quarterback, Mel Rideout, the conference’s leading passer, to only 56 yards through the air with
four completions in 18 attempts.

But in the final analysis, Richmond’s two fine halfbacks, Frank D’Arrigo and Earl Stoudt, just could not be contained by
the undermanned 'Cat line. The Spiders’ 266 rushing yards tell the story.

Davidson’s Wildcats will enjoy an open date this weekend in preparation for their journey to Blacksburg, Va. next Saturday to
face the conference leader, V.P.I., in a game which finds our Cats completely outmanned against the big, strong

Wildcat of the Week

Grant McRorie Shows Offense How To Score
By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The annual homecoming football game had just begun at Davidson College, and 4000 tense fans sat on the edge of
their seats as the rugged Spiders from the University of Richmond threatened to ram the ball across the Wildcats’ goal.

Taking the snap from center at the six-yard line, Spider quarterback Mel Rideout handed off to his left halfback, who
knifed his way toward the goal. And in the Richmond game, he and the other defensive halfbacks, Duncan Morton and
Bob Cordle, blanketed potential pass receivers to hold Rideout to

Rutherfordton, N. C. He lettered last season as a sophomore, and his play this season has drawn much praise from
Coach Dole. His favorite sport besides football is golf.

Homecoming Game: It Was Sad, Friend, Sad

Saturday, amid the revelry of the Davidson Homecoming, the Wildcat football team succumbed to the superior manpower of a strong
Richmond team and fell by a score of 35 to 6, in a game that offered few bright spots for
Davidson fans.

Sigs Take Tenth Win

Flickerball entered final stages this week with the

Davidson Takes On Naval Base After Losing, 1-0, To Pfeiffer
By BILLY BARRON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The charges of Coach Paul Marrotte take the field for a home match against a relatively unknown team from Norfolk
next Friday. Davidson knows very little about the Naval Base and will go into the match at 2:30 p.m. with
no special preparation for the visitors.

Today the ‘Cat booters traveled to (H for the 1D s penalized for ille- Ss D Pr Men nanaaak’ :
eee he hands in a pile- sant this tror I Ringe Pieitter Hee I | y Pfeif Rate Well *
the mar . : i TOUGH GOING in Nation : . pated play at ! expe 1 E detensive- Davidson
Coll 1 {ey { | p s¢ all the FACTS SCARCE Ct from Sigma Delta Psi, national honorary athletic fraternity.
The local chapter last year finished third with 6,110.2 points in a national team scoring contest behind Chico State College
and Springfield College. Davidson placed second in the membership contest with 11 new Psi's.

I think we in the third a Nav weren't ready for Pfeiffer after the long weekend. We were hurt by
not being able to use our fast-break offense effectively. Dance weekend proved too much for the Wildcats as they dropped
a thrilling 1-0 decision to Pfeiffer in Misenheimer Tuesday. The loss snapped their five-match winning streak and

Claude Finney all played outstanding. And had three men on the top ten individual high scoring totals — Jim Hamilton,
fourth,Davidson, 803.8 points; Dave Warden, crushed high hopes of a perfect The winning marker was Seventh, 712.6; and John Huie,
slate. only the third goal scored tenth, 686.7. These three men, The game was deadlocked against Finney all season.” famed
respectively in track, football and basketball, are of the class of 1959. Warden, captain of the 1959 Davidson grid team,
also was high man nationally in the football punt with a boot of 186 feet. Newest members of the Davidson
chapter include Alex Porter, John Chiles, Tom Wright, Bill Deane, Jim Hamilton, John Harris, Bob Thompson, Larry Kinney, Lew Zirkle,
Bruce Usher, and Steve Arthur.

Frosh Close Out Football Season varsity team next September. Help should come especially from these quarterback-halfback Benny 184, who will
be heard in the South- The Davidson freshman football team played host to Wingate Junior College this afternoon, bearing a
record of 0-3. It was the final game of the season for the Wildkittens, who thus far this season leveled
this week Davidson would be trying for the membership lost to The Citadel, 19-12; Furman, 42-14; and Gardner-Webb, 17-10. On
the basis of three games, the Kittens have a world of talent, man for man; but have not shown they
can work effectively as a unit (pending results of today’s game), according to Coach Tom Stevens.

By JOHN SPRATT Davidsonian Sports Writer Meeting their first defeat Friday at the hands of Furman, the Wildcat cross country
team reversed the tables Tuesday in a tri-meet with Pfeiffer and Richmond, adding two more victories to their hefty win
column. Next Wednesday the harriers will encounter VMI in Lexington for the last regular meet of the season, leaving of
course, the state and conference meets. Looking ahead to the VMI meet, Coach Heath Whittle labels it with a prediction
of “real interesting.” “They have a better unit, are better balanced and stay closer together. Still, we have one or
two boys with better times than the VMI club.” VMI has been defeated only by West Virginia.

NO ALIBIS Commenting on the Furman defeat, Whittle makes no alibis. “Our boys did well, but they had the better
team that day.” Kappa Sigs atop the standings. Pfeiffer and Richmond, outclassing Pfeiffer 16-71 and Richmond 16-60. Pacing the pack
with an exceptional effort, Wildcat Sterling Martin was clocked at 22:15, one of the best times for the four-mile track
in recent years at Davidson. Despite the seasonal success of the Wildcats, the step up to the state and conference
meets will be great and hazardous. Whittle predicts a third at Raleigh for the state meet, reminding, “There is always
Duke and Carolina.” As for the conference meet on November 7, Whittle speaks warily of West Virginia, all line, only
to have the ball spurt from his arms into the arms of a player wearing a red and white jersey,
number 21.

94 YARDS Number 21, the defensive right halfback, gathered the ball snugly into his arms, cut for the sideline, and
dashed 94 yards for a touchdown that put the ’Cats into the lead for the first time since the opening
game with Catawba. Also for the first time in a long time, a real display of school spirit was seen
in the Richardson Field Stadium as hundreds of Davidson students and their dates stood cheering. All of this was possible
Saturday afternoon because of number 21—Grant McRorie, who earns this week's title of “Wildcat of the Week.” Grant has done
more than just intercept a fumble for this honor, however. In the last three games, the ’Cats have scored 3
touchdowns—Grant has two of these to lead team scoring. four out of eighteen completions—his worst performance of the season.

LIKES GOLF Grant is a junior from Ruth- 113; and Phi Delt 34, Pika 3. The ironic thing about it,
he has done this scoring while playing defense! His other touchdown came in the Citadel game, after the clock had
run out when he intercepted a Bulldog pass and ran it back 35 yards. Happiest of the fans who watched
Grant's performance Saturday was Miss Bobbie Walker, who was his date for homecoming and who received Grant's Kappa Sigma pin
that night. This week’s big game was played between the league-leading Kappa Sigs and the challenging Phi Gams. Prior to
this game the Kappa Sigs had a 49-point average per game. The Gams, led by quarterbacks Dave Wilson and Jim
Smith, held the Sigs scoreless in the first half after having scored six points themselves. However, the Sigs roared back
in the second half for two touchdowns and a 13-6 victory. Jim Woods streaked downfield for the first tally. The
second one came on an intercepted pass. Jerry Cole picked it off, relaying to Ed Kizer, who scored. Other games
played during the period from last Thursday to this Wednesday resulted as follows: SAE 19, Phi Gam 13; Phi Delt
26, SPE 19; KA 19, Sigma Nu 0; ATO 12, Sigma Chi 6; Pika 12, Ind. 6; Phi Delt 32,
Pi Kapp 12. Also, SAE 14, KA 18, SPE 25, Sigma Chi 13; ATO 20, Sigma Nu 0; Beta 19,
Phi Gam 113; and Phi Delt 34, Pika 3.

proved his record by at least one minute in the meet with Davidson. Whatever the setback of the loss, the
’Cats rebounded in a variety of ways.

CONNIE Variety Club Charities are bringing my entire orchestra and chorus to Charlotte Coliseum November 7th, 1960. The show will
be done in stereophonic sound and our engineers will completely “re-sound” the Coliseum with over $30,000.00 in electronic equipment. CHARLOTTE
COLISEUM NOV. 7, 1960—8:30 P.M. Tickets Now Available at Belk’s, Coliseum Box Office, National Hat Shop, Hi-Fi Center in Mall.
Seats: $2.00, $2.50, $3.00. Send Mail Orders and check to Variety Club Charities, P.O. Box 10306, Charlotte 1, N.C. This
Ad Sponsored By J. Francis White.

Know the answer COPYRIGHT 1998 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY What's an eight-letter word which reminds you of good taste, sparkle, lift?
The answer’s easy—Coca-Cola of course. No puzzle about why it’s so popular... no other sparkling drink gives you so much
good taste, so much satisfaction. Yes, when you're looking for refreshment, the answer's always Coke! BE REALLY REFRESHED Bottled under
authority of The Coca-Cola Company by The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, N. C.
