PAGE FOUR

“Sure I like working. I got to eat same as anyone else. Besides, I like my customers.” This was Hattie Morgan, co-owner of the Truckers’ Inn, talking. She raised up from the beer cooler, having extracted another beer, cracked it, and walked through the door into the other section of her store. When she returned, she was carrying a once-white cloth in her hand. She began to swab down the counter. Hattie, our mother away from home! The supervisor outside the dormitories! She cracked two more beers for two of her regular customers who quickly adjourned to the horseshoe pits.

January 12 Features Tihmar Dance Team

The David Tihmar Dance Theatre, featuring an evening of varied dance forms from the ballet classics to the modern idiom, will appear in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening, January 12, at 8:15 o'clock, on the current artist series. David Tihmar, the choreographer and director of this unique production of dance, theater, music, voice (sung and spoken) and exotic costuming, has a varied background in both ballet and the theatre. A student of Ouspenskaya and Reinhardt in the theatre, and Nijinska in the dance, Tihmar appeared in movies as a contract player with such names as Joan Crawford, Greer Garson, and has done choreography for Fred Astaire in the films. He has toured as premier danseur with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and for two seasons toured with Mia Slavenska. Agnes de Mille spotted Tihmar with the Ballet Russe and engaged him for that great Broadway hit, “Oklahoma!” He has also appeared in “Brigadoon” and “Finian's Rainbow” on Broadway and did directorial arrangement.

Jamo Blake, narrator and company manager, is a Pasadena Playhouse graduate and has appeared on Broadway and numerous TV series. Shirley Weaver is both an accomplished actress and dancer, having danced with both the Metropolitan Opera corps de ballet and the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. Lothar Perl, musical director and accompanist, is well known for his services as accompanist to Mata and Hari, who have appeared at Davidson.

Opening with a bravura composition in the pure “balletic” style of classical ballet, the program will draw increasingly upon the intensely emotional and exotic resources of the various “free forms” which have resulted from the marriage of the classic dance with modern, jazz.

“Me and my husband, we built this place,” she said, again wiping the counter. “It was in 1942. We been workin’ here ever since.” She let the cloth drop from her hand to the cooler, put her hand on it again, and began to wipe its surface. Every time she stretched, she emitted a grunt. I sipped my beer and watched her. Her hands were rough and red, indicating work, and the lines in her face were marks of a hard life. She never let herself be still. She was continually moving. A horseshoe made a ringing sound as it struck steel.

“I was borned and raised in Davidson,” she said. “My husband was workin’ in the mill when I met him. We used to not like the boys at Davidson. They was goin’ to college and we was workin’ in the mill. But we didn’t get into any trouble over it because we didn’t have anything to do with it.”

By TOM FREEMAN

Two more boys came in, and then three more. Softball games are over, I thought, as Hattie came back in.

Hattie’s Home Away From Home

As the handle swung down, I heard the sound of escaping gas. The handle made a clunking noise and was raised to its upright position again. Hattie took a can of beer from the opener and placed it in front of me.

There will be a special group meeting for those interested in a position with the Internal Revenue Service at 4:00 p.m. on January 18 in the Green Room of the Union. The reason for having the meeting before placement season is that examinations will be given in Charlotte on February 13.

Hufford Assigned To Overseas Post

Lt. Col. Berle K. Hufford, Assistant PMS&T here, will leave in June to assume his new assignment as historian for headquarters of SHAPE in Paris. Hufford’s regular three-year tour of duty at Davidson has been interrupted after two years. Hufford will serve as head of the historical section of the Secretary General's Staff. He commented that he thought it would be “an excellent assignment—very, very interesting.” Hufford served with the historical division in Germany during 1949-51. During this time he worked with former German officers.

Union Professor Conducts Vespers

Dr. William B. Oglesby, Jr. has agreed to substitute as vespers speaker this Sunday night. Dr. Outler suffered a heart attack last week. Dr. Oglesby is a graduate of Austin College and of Union Theological Seminary of the University of Chicago. At present, he is the professor of pastoral counseling at Union Seminary in Richmond. He has held pastorates in Arkansas and Louisiana.

“Do you have any other property besides the store and your house?” I inquired.

“Yeah! We have a cabin down on the river. We rent it to fraternities for parties on dance weekends, but it’s not very big and no fraternities rent it anymore.”

“Have you ever had it suspended?”

“No. We ain't had no trouble here. We quit sellin’ when we're supposed to and we try to keep it quiet. There ain't many people to disturb around here.”

“What about the can throwing at the train?” I inquired.

“Well, that wasn’t us. That was you boys and we didn’t get into any trouble over it because we didn’t have anything to do with it.”

I swallowed two mouthfuls of beer. I was warm, and the beer was nice and cool.

“Some of the boys can’t hold their drinks, so when they get a little smart or rowdy, I ask them to leave. We don’t have too much trouble with you boys.”

Suddenly she seemed to relax. There was an unanswered question somewhere, but I didn’t want her to quit talking because of my prying.

“Well, I keep tropical fish and I carve in wood. I carve birds and put them on sticks. You've probably seen them in there.” She nodded toward the other part of the store. “I like to keep kids, too.”

She cracked five beers, sat them on the counter, collected the money and put it in the cash register. As she picked up the cloth again, I said, “I hate to bother you with all these questions, but did you get your beer license in 1942?”

“Yes. We got it when we opened up.”

“Have you ever had it suspended?”

“No. We ain't had no trouble here. We quit sellin’ when we're supposed to and we try to keep it quiet. There ain't many people to disturb around here.”

“What’s the funniest thing that ever happened to you?” I asked.

“I’ll have to think a while,” she said. Still thinking, she picked up the cloth again and wiped the counter after the boys had picked up their beers. Finally, she said, “I guess it was the time I sprayed my husband's hair full of shoe polish, thinkin’ it was hair spray. The cans were beside each other in the medicine cabinet and almost alike. That happened about three months ago and I only told him about it last week. He said that he had wondered why his hair was so sticky.”

Three more boys came in and I decided to quit bothering her.

The YMCA will sponsor a “student acting clinic” next semester. So announced George Johnson, member of the nucleus of Red and Black Masquers organization. “Since the graduation of most of the dramatic group last year, there has been a lack of actors in the organization,” said Johnson. “We hope this clinic will stimulate more student participation, and teach some of the methods of acting to all those interested.”

The “clinic” will be conducted in the form of a seminar, with about ten meetings and discussions on “methods of acting.” The group also hopes to join with Pfeiffer and Catawba colleges in at least one dramatic exchange. “After months of work on a play, it’s more rewarding to present it three or four times instead of one,” said Johnson. “If all goes well, all three schools will benefit. The other schools are interested, but we have not finalized plans yet.”set anything during February and March, as yet,” stated Johnson. Prof. W. Tyson of the Speech department also emphasized that the “acting clinic” will be open not only to members of the dramatic group, but also to English majors and others interested in drama. “We have a good many interested in set building and creating a character on stage,” and “how to put a part across.” He will replace the Rev. Albert C. Outler of Southern Methodist. After study, the group will present a romantic drama for the Fine Arts as well as possible one-act plays to be presented to high school students. 

“I sincerely hope we can get organized to serve the college as it has done in the past,” said Johnson. In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA at the famous OPEN KITCHEN, 1318 W. Morehead, Charlotte, N.C.

Do You Think for Yourself? Work with “New Faces of 1956” and folk idioms. This marriage has provided greater freedom for all contemporary creative artists in the theatre. Exemplified by such recent triumphs as “Golden Apple” and “West Side Story,” this peculiarly American phenomenon fuses music, voice (spoken and sung), dancing, decor, and costuming into a new dramatic expression where every element is conceived as part of a single artistic effort.

Dancers appearing in the school include Sally Seven, five years as soloist with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo; Janice Painchaud, formerly of the Radio City Music Hall Ballet Corps and famous summer stock productions; Darrell Notara, musical comedy dancer and Broadway and TV actor; Arnott Mader, former...

I laughed. If I had graduated last year, it could have been my father. “When did you get married?” I asked. “It was back in 1928. We stayed in Davidson for ten years and then we moved to Dillon, South Carolina. My husband was overseer in a cotton mill, and I worked but not for about four months. I was busy keeping house for my young’un.”

“Yeah. I have a daughter, 28, and she is married and has two kids. I’m a grandmother. But there are always kids in the house.” She was still moving. She had straightened the ashtrays on the counter after wiping them out.

“We lived in Dillon for five years and then moved back here and built this place.” She motioned around the room. Someone called her from the other side of the store and she left again.

Elm Row (Continued From Page One)

Professor Herb Russell commented, “I have told Dr. Martin that the proudest moment of my life was when the Music Department got its indoor bathroom.” Carefully closing doors as he walked through the chilly halls, Mr. Russell added, pointing to the sloping floors, “Not a floor in this house is level.”

During the late 1800s, Elm Row was used by fraternities for chapter rooms. Until about a decade ago, it housed the DAVIDSONIAN office, and more recently it was used for offices of the Music Department. The second floor of the old infirmary yields to the visitor many traces of its past inhabitants. A bedroom floor is covered with rotted sweet potatoes, another room is bare except for a gold and purple foil plaque proclaiming “Christ Is Our Hope,” and another seems to have had hurried visitors judging from the abandoned bottle still containing traces of orange-flavored vodka.

A professor in the Music Department, who vacated his office in Elm Row in December to move into the white frame house east of the church parking lot, denied any knowledge of how the bottles got under the building. He added, “They are nothing compared to the bottles that were in this house before we moved in. It took nearly a whole day to clear out the junk before we could move in.”

The second floor bathroom, an example of an obsolete era of architectural planning, has windows on three sides. One window harks back to Victoriana with its small panes painted red, green, blue, violet, and yellow. Still more delights await the lover of antiquity in the cluttered third-floor attic. The treasure trove includes a mattress, whiskey bottles, an empty “Tabu” perfume bottle, six bentwood chairs, a white rocking chair, many bottles of medicine, dust-covered religious volumes dated 1832 and 1850, an iron bedstead, dead potted plants, two matching gold-leaf picture frames, and hundreds of other articles of questionable value.

The frame building was built in 1902 as the College infirmary and has had several subsequent tenants, including a YMCA director. Before the installation of shelves and a heating system for the Music Department, the house was used by the college for storage. The first floor of the building will house the offices of Professors Plott, Russell, and Satterfield for about twenty months until they move into quarters in the new Fine Arts Building. When asked how the Music Department was adapting to its temporary facilities, Professor Herb Russell commented, “I would say that throwing boys in is more our business. The more boys here, the more beer we sell, and the more money we make.”

“Have you ever been officially connected with the college?” I was following up a rumor that I had heard. Someone had told me that she had worked for the college for some time but had quit because of some trouble. She blushed and almost stammered, “No. I just lived in the town. That’s all.” The silence was thick. For once she stood perfectly still. I hurried to ask another question. “What are your hobbies, Hattie?”

Kannapolis’ Leading Theatres - GEM Today and Saturday “The Flying Fontaines” In Color Starts Saturday Nite 8:30 & 10:30

I had finished my beer and besides, it was almost time for supper. “Thank you, Hattie,” I said. “O.K.,” she said. That was all.

EDUCATION

If you saw a full-rigged sailing ship in the middle of the desert, would you say (A) “Long time no sea!” (B) “Wish they'd invent talking mirages,” or (C) “Anything can happen in Las Vegas!” When a man says, “Brevity is the soul of wit,” he means (A) he’s about to make a long speech; (B) wise thoughts come in short sentences; (C) “Shut up!”

If you have checked (C) in three out of four questions, you're pretty sharp... but if you picked (B), you think for yourself!

In choosing a filter cigarette, would you pick one that (A) says the filter doesn’t count, only the tobacco; (B) is designed to do the best filtering job for the best taste; (C) gives you an enormous filter but very little taste.

When you think for yourself... you depend on judgment, not chance, in your choice of cigarettes. That is why men and women who think for themselves usually smoke Viceroy. They know only Viceroy has a thinking man’s filter—the most advanced filter design of them all. And only Viceroy has a smoking man’s taste... the full rich taste of choice tobacco.

JOIN THE MARCH OF DIMES

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows— ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!