The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 1960
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Absolute Academic Freedom As A Shield For Communism

It is good for Davidson to offer courses in economic systems and comparative religions so that students may study and
weigh the merits of those systems employed by others. These are signs of a healthy atmosphere of academic freedom so
imperative for a liberal arts education.

There is a point, however, at which academic freedom becomes more of a liability than an asset to an educational
community. That point is reached when academic freedom becomes a menace to our human freedoms. That point is reached when
the Association of American University Professors denies that affiliation with the Communist party is reason for exclusion from the academic
profession.

The AAUP is to the education field what the AFL-CIO is to industry; and it has been almost as successful
as the union in bringing recalcitrants into line, coercing colleges and universities into accepting its curious standards of academic freedom.
It cannot be denied the professors’ “union” has had its success due to the distinguished list of educators on its
roll. It is firmly established. We feel, however, that they have made academic freedom a fetish — that they regard
it as an absolute end and not as a means to an end—uninterested in the fact that their precious academic
freedom can serve as a shield behind which communists hide, with countenance, and advocate doctrines clearly aimed at our overthrow.

We believe that truth should be the end and academic freedom the means to find that end. Neither we, nor
our society, accepts the doctrine of communism, including its denial of God, as a truth. Our free society should not
have to tolerate, nor should our students be indoctrinated by, those who will not disavow communism. They threaten our human
freedom—which we stand to lose to communism.

There is no longer any reasonable doubt that the members of the Communist party are part of a conspiracy to
overthrow the U. S. government by force if necessary. The evidence that communists are unfit to teach in a free
society is overwhelming to most clear-thinking Americans—but not to the AAUP. We believe in a healthy academic freedom, but not
as an absolute, not when it shields communists to teach a doctrine of menace to each of us under the
banner of absolute academic freedom raised high by the American Association of University Professors.

Critic of What-- Free Journalism?

The Rev. Frank Hall’s career as a merits the “letters to the editor” privilege he wonders about in his letter
on this page. Disagreement with editorial policy is as old as the Fourth Estate, and is recognized as indispensable to
a free press.

Reader Hall has not, however, disagreed explicitly with our policy, though the implication is obvious. He has limited his talents
to disagreeing with our right to present our policy in each instance. He says, “It’s entirely proper... to be wrong
sometimes. But not wrong in the wrong direction!” Perhaps due to our undergraduate naivete we have failed to grasp the
paths of absolute right and wrong which seem to have been so lucidly revealed to the Rev. Hall.

If it is “entirely proper” for us to be wrong in advocating his ideas, why is it “unutterably sad” for
us to advance our ideas? May we speak only for that of which he approves? By the way, we, too,
are crusaders. We have been fighting for liberalized cuts, enumerated reforms in the admissions systems and the individual in a
society of collectivism, among other things.

Concerning Harry Golden, we never “elucidated” his errors. A closer reading of the December 4 editorial will show that we
questioned his authority as “spokesman for the South,” never his ability as a writer. Finally, it’s a bit unusual for
us to be called “stuffy,” but we’re glad to know we can be forgiven if we are shocking.

Presbyterians - - And Free Books

A recent article may have created a very false impression concerning the Library which we are very anxious to clear
up. The article incorrectly stated that the Library made it current policy to decline all books willed to the school.
This is not true. There are some instances in which we are left books that are of little value to
the undergraduate liberal arts college, or are out-of-date without being old enough to be valuable for their age. These books
we are forced to refuse because of the high price of transporting books and preparing them for the stacks. Sometimes
the books are not appropriate to the institution or do not suit the professors’ purposes.

However, we Presbyterians are not known for looking a gift horse in the mouth. We realize that we do not
have enough books in the library; and we do accept books by will (and other gratis methods). We are glad
to get them.

Changing Times And Preaching

In an address to the Literary Societies of Davidson College in 1838, the Rev. James H. Thornwell said:

“Whatever position may be taken on the naked question of slavery, the principles of the Abolitionists strike at the foundation
of all social order, and under the peculiar aspect of things in this country their carrying out into actual practice
must be attended with terrible convulsions and bloody wars. And if their leveling propensities should gradually bring them to the
hated doctrine of amalgamation, reason, religion and humanity as well as decency and taste would turn away in disgust from
the sickening climax of outrageous fanaticism.”

How times and preachers do change.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Jim Hamilton
ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Livingston
BUSINESS MANAGER
B. Millner
Associate Editor
Tom Colvin
Editorial Assistant
Charles Rose
Managing Editors
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore
Sports Editor
Dick Smith
News Editor
Dave Gillis
Feature Editor
David Jordan
Assignments Editor
Dan Clemmer
Copy Editor
Redding Starling
Cartoonists
Charlie Rowe
Advertising Manager
Albert McClure, Jr.
Circulation Mgr.
Greg Grana
Ass’t. Business Manager

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Ackerman~ Nonstop: Exam Special............by Ackerman

TIME FOR NEW YEAR’S RESOLUTIONS—

a Commencement Speech, 1874, Reveals Southerner’s Fiery Zeal

(Editor’s Note: These excerpts are taken from a commencement address delivered by a member of the Philanthropic Society in 1874.
It was recently submitted by a Davidson alumnus who found it among some old papers.)

On the pending “civil rights” legislation of the Reconstruction Congress:

“... how can the most careful teacher prevent the debasing influence of Negro children, scarcely emerged from African fetishism? They
will fill the minds of their pale-faced associates with weird stories and foolish notions, from which they never recover; worse
still—they will corrupt their young hearts by evil communications of the blackest dye!

“Hence, no more effectual method could have been adopted for closing the school house, that nursery of all national intelligence,
against the poor, diligent white man... Hence, the result will be to expend the whole public fund for the slow
brains of Ham’s descendants and leave the bright intellects of nature’s gifted children in gross ignorance.”

On coeducation in institutions of higher learning:

“Oftentimes when we go into the recitation room and the piercing eye of the Professor falls upon us; it seems
to us that he sees everything that we do not know; now, gentlemen, if you add another pair of glancing
eyes, sitting opposite to each one of us, and looking us through and through, you must, honored sirs, place the
failing point lower than 60—for our sakes!

“Shall we take gold as an agent in getting iron from the rude ore? Shall the sweet and sacred influence
of girlish modesty, all be supplanted by a brazen forwardness at these colleges and universities in order that the lazy
faculties of great rough boys be developed? No. No! Establish Rugby schools and Oxfords, and Cambridges and Yales and Edinburghs,
as many as need be; but give us no more Cornells, or Oberlins, or Antiochs... where tall Kentucky girls carry
off the prizes in Mathematics over the heads of all the boys...

“Do you admire the intellectual development of that masculine woman, Queen Elizabeth?”

Robinson Offers Evaluation at First Semester’s End; Calls For Examination, Critique of Campus Life

The coming of a new year is a time appropriate at least for evaluating some of the campus activities of
the previous Fall, if not for new resolutions. The evaluating remarks that follow will seem highly presumptuous unless they are
taken for what they are, simplyPersonal Reflections

LIFE UNRELATED

Extra-curricular life at Davidson continues to be essentially unrelated to the educational purpose of the college. Many organizations seem to
have little fundamental understanding of their purpose, and little willingness to question that purpose, if known. The relationships among organizations
are poorly defined. For some areas of interest, such as debate and drama, there are few or no organizational outlets.
Among the specifically religious institutions of the campus, there is a marked inability to combine worship and commitment with a
strong ethical concern.

CONTRIBUTIONS

Several groups are apparently making new and significant contributions to student life. The International Relations Club has provided a much-needed
emphasis on African affairs throughout the first semester. Denominational fellowships are broadening the scope of their activities. The Westminster Fellowship
has examined “powerful beliefs” and the racial question; the Methodist Youth Fellowship has been attempting to relate the Christian faith
to such areas as jazz and the work of the United Nations; and the Canterbury Club has made significant studies
in drama and existentialism. The Inter-Varsity Fellowship continues to possess a quality of fellowship and fervor which other religious institutions
tend to de-emphasize in their attempts to make faith relevant to life.

IFC SHOWS CONCERN

The IFC appears to have a broader concern than it has shown in some past years. The independents have been
included in both the activities and interest of the council. The council has given consideration to community service projects and
fraternity retreats.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Nevertheless, the fraternities themselves continue to mold rather than furnish a flexible program for their individual members. They are making
little effort to integrate their work with the educational aims of the college; the visit of Sen. Ervin was a
notable exception to this. A larger number than usual of the freshmen seem to have some basic questions about the
quality of fraternity life.

Y EXPANDS

The Y has expanded its program to include such valuable activities as the Book-of-the-Semester. The depth of its work, however,
does not measure up to its breadth. The program is poorly integrated and lacks continuity. The leadership does not seem
to have a very clear perception of what a campus YMCA should do. The denominational fellowships continue to do a
steadier and more thorough job than the Y.

BELOW PAR

The Student Council and Davidsonian have served less well than they might have served. The former group still needs to
gain an identity as a legislative and representative body. It has made significant efforts to relate to student life only
in the area of alcohol. It seems to me that the council should become the petition-circulating and rabble-rousing group which
focuses and foments campus opinion.

VOICE WASTED

The newspaper has dealt fully and significantly only with the cut system; even in this treatment, it retreated from its
original stand. The remainder of its voice has been either employed in defensive supports of the status quo or wasted
on less important questions. The appearance of “The Iconoclast” was partially a commentary on the Davidsonian’s ineffectiveness. The lethargy and
dissatisfaction of members of the college community seem to be at least as great as they have been in past
years. These two attitudes probably help to explain the unrelatedness and ineffectiveness of much of extra-curricular life.

WEAK COMMUNICATION

Communication between and among various levels of the campus community is not very strong. When communication occurs, as was the
case when the Board of Visitors came, it is usually about such less significant questions as, “How can we better
sell the Davidson image?” There is little basic criticism and debate, and even less encouragement of them. Students can see
little evidence of administrative leadership and initiative; it is difficult to point out exactly where the leadership of the college
as a whole rests.

TROUBLED CONSCIENCE

Perhaps at the root of all the disquietude is a troubled campus conscience; we do not really believe that the
creatureliness of man, the search for truth, and the Christian faith can be effectively related to one another. We fear
that one of our tin gods will clatter and fall if examined too closely, upheld too fully, or viewed in
the light of his rival deities. Thus, we give partial allegiance to each god and suffer from the resulting frustration.

Oath Stand

“Whereas, the National Defense Education Act of 1958 singles out unfairly persons in education as objects of suspicion; and

“Whereas, loyalty oaths are repugnant to the traditions of academic freedom in our country; therefore

“Resolved, That the Davidson College Chapter of the American Association of University Professors assembled in meeting on February 3, 1959,
go on record as urging the repeal by Congress of the provision of the National Defense Education Act which denies
payments or loans to any individual who does not file an affidavit with the Commissioner of Education declaring that he
does not believe in, and is not a member of, and does not support any organization that believes in or
teaches the overthrow of the United States Government by force or violence or by any illegal or unconstitutional methods.”

I might point out that the Davidson chapter of the AAUP has not been at all concerned with the advisability
of receiving or rejecting the government loans to students, but only with the principle involved in requiring the oath and
affidavit of the students.

Paul A. Marrotte, President
Davidson College chapter AAUP
