REJUVENATED ‘CATS TACKLE ENGINEERS (See Page Three) The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College FOREIGN STUDENTS —
PREDICT POLICY CHANGE (See Page Two) VOL. XLIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1960 NUMBER NINE ‘The
Weavers’ Sign Agreement Fraternity Presidents Hold Discussion Of Soph Rush Fraternity presidents met Tuesday evening in the Kappa Sig fraternity
house for an informal discussion with President D. Grier Martin. The subject of the discussion was the faculty’s position on
sophomore rush. The meeting was also attended by IFC president Jerry Cole. “I don't think the entire faculty is aware
of what really is happening in the fraternity system,” Martin said. “However, there seems to have been enough frustration to
lead the faculty to take action.” “Had I been able to vote, I would not have voted for sophomore rush.
But this is not to say that I am happy with some of the conditions that do exist. I would
like to see some major changes insuring that freshmen would be allowed to keep up the quality of their work
and which would prevent physical punishment.” Martin continued, “I think for Davidson, with the quality of men which come here
and the quality of way the fraternity system is setup, that the quick rush is better overall.” Martin further pointed
out that there is much disagreement among the faculty concerning sophomore rush. When asked if he thought there was a
chance of a reversal by the faculty on their stand he stated that he was not too optimistic about this.
“Some members of the faculty who voted against the proposal last year would not vote for its rejection now unless
concrete changes were presented. “Whatever has been done or demonstrated has not made much impact on the faculty.” As of
now sophomore rush will go into effect next fall. It will require a reversal of faculty opinion to change or
delay this. “I don’t think that the faculty intended to hold anything over the fraternities, or to use sophomore rush
as a club to get the fraternities to change. It seems to have come about in the natural course of
events.” Board Picks Watlington To Be New Chairman The fifth annual Board of Visitors meeting convened this morning. The members
of the Board of Visitors act as advisors to the administration and seek to promote the welfare and development of
Davidson College. There was a business meeting this morning, at which the new chairman and the two new vice-chairmen were
elected. To succeed the present chairman, James J. Harris, President of James J. Harris and Company, is John F. Watlington,
President of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company. Watlington has been associated with Wachovia since 1933 and has been President since
1956. His banking reputation extends both statewide and nationally. He is Director of the Association of Reserve City Bankers, a
national group of leading bank executives in key American cities. Watlington was recently featured in a “Business Week" cover story
and was Charlotte's “Man of the Year” in 1951. He has been active in civic projects of his community, state,
and region. Elected vice-chairmen were Edward Dwelle, Jr., and Mrs. T. G. Graham. At a luncheon today the Board heard
an address by Dr. Theodore A. Distler, Executive Director of the Association of American Colleges. Each member of the Board
of Visitors has a faculty host. The members spent the afternoon in an informal discussion with their faculty hosts on
all aspects of the college program. There was an open house at President and Mrs. D. Grier Martin's home from
3:30 to 4:30. The Board was informed that the total endowment of Davidson is over 10 million dollars as of
October 1, 1960. It was also reported that in 1959-60, for the 46th year, Davidson operated without a deficit. New
members of the Board of Visitors are D. Brantley Burns, Chairman of the Manufacturers Acceptance Corporation; Robert E. Kell, '29,
President of Mary Grey Hosiery Mills; Addison H. Reese, President of the North Carolina National Bank; P. Huber Hanes, Jr.,
President of P. H. Hanes Knitting Company; Marshall I. Pickens, Director of the Hospital and Orphans Section of the Duke
Endowment; and James K. Dorsett, '38, an attorney from Raleigh, North Carolina. New members are elected by a committee on
membership of the Board of Visitors. November 18 Brings New Dance Weekend The appearance of the Kingston Trio and the
Four Freshmen on the weekend of November 18 and 19 will bring dance weekend activities to Davidson. The more than
four hundred and fifty girls expected on campus will be housed in Belk Dormitory. This is the first time that
a dormitory has been made available for a function other than dance weekends. The weekend activities will begin on Friday
night with the Kingston Trio concert in Charlotte. On Saturday, Wildcat Day, the football team will meet the Purple Hurricanes
of Furman. Rounding out the events of the weekend will be the Four Freshmen Concert sponsored by the IFC. This
will be held in Chambers Auditorium from 8:00 to 9:30 p.m. The Four Freshmen have been making numerous appearances in
clubs, jazz festivals, and concert dates since their organization in Dayton, Ohio, several years ago. The group’s great popularity is
founded on their unique presentation of humor, jazz, and ballads. The Four Freshmen, Ross and Don Barbour, Bob Flanigan, and
Ken Errair, have recently completed the movie, “Rich, Young, and Pretty.” The group currently has twelve Capitol record albums on
the market. Views On Soph Rush By TOM COLVIN Davidsonian Assistant Editor Four faculty members and a member of the
administration expressed disappointment in the IFC rushing proposal presented to the faculty last week in separate interviews with THE DAVIDSONIAN.
A couple of the professors declined to make any public statements. Two of those questioned have been at colleges which
operated under sophomore rushing. They are Professor Robert Lord, who came to Davidson one year ago, and Professor Thomas Pinkerton,
who joined the faculty this year. Professor Lord, who has seen Sophomore Rush at Dartmouth, said that he feels Sophomore
Rush will not help remedy any problems in the fraternity system here. “It will do only one thing: The freshmen
will not have to make up their minds immediately about joining fraternities.” He further stated that perhaps a position of
assistant dean, who would among other things handle fraternity matters, would be a valuable addition. This man would be a
liaison between the faculty and the IFC. He also favored a serious study of second semester rushing. Professor Lord, added,
“Cole (president of the IFC) implied at last week's faculty meeting that the IFC is weak and can’t do anything.
If this is so, then this is a major problem.” Convocation Brings Concert Organist Clarence Watters, head of the music
department at Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut, and a concert organist, will present a special free concert of organ music
on Tuesday, November 15, in the Davidson College Chapel. The concert is sponsored by the Music Department. There will be
no registration fee for Davidson students. The program will include works by Bach, Franck, and Hindemith. The concert will begin
at 3:30 p.m. and will be open to the public. Group Plans Concert Of Varied Folk Songs By BOB MOORE
Davidsonian Associate Editor One of America’s popular folk singing groups, The Weavers, will be the second attraction in the Concert
Series. The concert will be in Chambers Auditorium and will begin at 8:00 p.m. and continue until 10:00 p.m. with
an intermission. FOLK SONG PROGRAM The Weavers are Lee Hays, Ronnie Gilbert, Frank Hellerman (guitarist-singer) and Erik Darling (banjoist-singer). Their
program is entitled, “Folk Songs Around The World” and includes songs from the United States, England, Scotland, Israel, Spain, Chile,
South Africa, and many other parts of the world. They will present forty songs during the concert. These include work
songs, blues, ballads, dance songs, national songs, war and peace. In the past few years The Weavers have devoted their
work to concert tours and recordings. Their national tours and songs have been outstanding successes, drawing large concert audiences to
hear folk music.Renowned concert organist, will be the featured lecturer-performer at a Convocation of Sacred Music here on Saturday, November
12. The public is cordially invited. The program will begin at 10:30 a.m. with a lecture by Watters. At 1:30
p.m., following a special luncheon, the Davidson College Male Chorus, the Davidson College Brass Ensemble, Joseph Robinson, oboist, and Dr.
Robert S. Lord, Davidson College organist, will present sacred music in the church sanctuary. Watters will be heard in an
organ recital at 3:00 p.m., following a “coffee break.” He will play works by Clérambault, Daquin, Handel, Bach, Franck, and
Marcel Dupré. The recital is also free.

He concluded his remarks by saying that “there is certainly room for improvement, but it is generally a good system
here.” Professor Pinkerton, who has seen sophomore rush in operation at Trinity College, said that the evils of Sophomore Rush
at Trinity were just the same as they would be under freshmen rushing. He quickly added that he was not
sure any comparison could be made between Trinity and Davidson because of the very different situations. He said, “I feel
that the fraternities are going to have to do something very constructive in order to get Sophomore Rush overruled. Had
the representative of the IFC brought to the faculty a proposal which would go into effect regardless of the faculty’s
decision on Sophomore Rush, the faculty would have received the ideas more favorably.”

Professor William Workman said, “Sophomore Rush is here, but I hope we can postpone it and eventually have it taken
off the books. Many students consider it simply as a threat, but it is an actuality.” He said that while
he opposes Sophomore Rush, he is also opposed to certain excesses in the fraternities’ treatment of freshmen. If these excesses
are done away with, he said, then he wants Sophomore Rush removed from the books. He added, “Promises won't do
it. I want to see evidence second semester.”

Professor Charles E. Lloyd remarked that he didn’t “think the IFC proposal went very far.” He said that Sophomore Rush
should not divide the campus between the students and the faculty. “It seems the best argument to continue freshman rush
is a humane and mature treatment of the present class of freshmen,” he concluded.

C. Shaw Smith, coordinator of student activities, took a somewhat different slant on the rushing question. He said that the
fraternities better than any other thing can achieve goals of the college if the students reflect the aims of the
college. Sophomore Rush is a reality because the students don't seem to have shown that they do fully reflect the
spirit of Davidson College personnel. He continued, “The bad thing is that it shows that the students haven't lived up
to their capabilities and responsibilities. The good thing is that we have an opportunity to explore a new structure for
the relationship between the student and the institution as a whole.”

Nishihara Speaks On Japanese Riots

Masa Nishihara, a Japanese student leader, will speak to an open meeting of the International Relations Club and the Y.M.C.A.
on “The Truth about Japanese Student Demonstrations” this Monday night at 8 o'clock. The meeting, which is open to all
students, will be held in the Union Ballroom and will be sponsored by the area of National and International Concern
of the “Y.” The World University Service is sponsoring Nishihara’s visits to American campuses in order to promote better understanding
of the Asian student. After studying three years at Kyoto University, Nishihara attended the International Student Press Conference in Switzerland
and has traveled widely throughout Europe and the United States. He will arrive on campus Sunday and will be available
to meet with classes on Monday. He is especially qualified to speak on the role of the student in the
life of Japan, the role of religion in Japanese culture, and on the World University Service.

Noted Astronomer Named For Reynolds Lectureship

By DON SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Dr. Harlow Shapley, professor emeritus of astronomy at Harvard, will deliver a series of lectures next April, under the auspices
of the Reynolds Lectureship Program. Dean F. W. Johnston, chairman of the faculty committee on the Reynolds series, announced Shapley’s
appearance on April 10, 11, and 12, 1961. He expressed hope that another speaker could be secured this year, to
make a total of three lectures during this program's first year.

OUTSTANDING ASTRONOMER

Shapley is well-known in the world for his work in astronomy. Since 1956, when he left Harvard, Shapley has spoken
at a number of schools around the country and has written two books, "The Inner Metagalaxy," and "Of Stars and
Man." He received his education at the University of Missouri and at Princeton. He has taught at several institutions and
has been awarded many prizes and honorary degrees.

NOT CHOSEN TOPIC

Dean Johnston said that topics for Shapley’s lectures here at Davidson have not yet been chosen. His schedule will include
at least two public addresses and other appearances with interested student groups. Johnston remarked on the “enthusiastic approval” shown by
students for Archibald MacLeish, who appeared here last week as the first Reynolds Lecturer. “I was pleased with the good
turnout we had for all programs,” said Johnston.

SCHEDULING CONFLICTS

MacLeish’s appearance last week followed closely Dr. Paul Lehmann’s Otts Lectures. Many students have commented on the fact that both
men were scheduled during a review period. Johnston said, “We had to take MacLeish when we could get him. We
have done our best to schedule Dr. Shapley during a relatively free time on the calendar.” The Reynolds Lectureship Program,
established this year with income from a $100,000 gift by the Reynolds Foundation, will eventually bring four to six speakers
annually to the campus. The committee hopes to procure outstanding speakers in widely diversified fields.

TOP SELLING RECORDS

Their recent recordings for Vanguard Records, and particularly “The Weavers at Carnegie Hall,” are among the top sellers in the
country. Some of their best-selling recordings include “Goodnight Irene,” “On Top of Old Smoky,” and “Kisses Sweeter Than Wine.” "Time
magazine" in describing the phenomenal rise of the group said, “The Weavers had succeeded in shouting, twanging and crooning folk
singing out of its cloistered corner into big time.” Carl Sandburg has stated, “When I hear America singing, The Weavers
are there.”

WEAVER-TYPE SONGS

When they first started singing as a group their name meant nothing to audiences. But in a fairly short time
their name began to mean something specific as disc jockeys started using phrases like “Weavers-type songs.” The Weavers, more than
any other singer or group in America, have been responsible for bringing to their audiences folk songs from the tradition
of America, and have also introduced for the first time many folk songs from around the world never before sung
in this country. The Weavers have been contracted by the Council to present a concert on December 9th. The IFC
presentation of spirituals, folk songs, and other music will be a highlight of the year.

Final Game Marks Fourth Wildcat Day

Wildcat Day 1960 will be centered around Davidson's final game of the season, the Furman game on Saturday, November 19th.
This marks the fourth annual occurrence of Wildcat Day. Registration for alumni and guests begins at 10:00 a.m. in the
College Union. Special campus tours and other entertainment are being planned for alumni, wives, children, parents, and all others interested
for the period between 10:00 and 12:00. Guests also will be invited to tour the new dormitory and the Dana
Science Laboratory on Wildcat Day. The annual Wildcat Club meeting is scheduled for 11:00 a.m. Coach W. E. Dole will
report to Davidson's athletic boosters on the past season, and Coach Driesell is expected to give a basketball preview. A
“Wildcat Booster Buffet” will be served in the College Union at noon, instead of the “Wildcat Booster Lunch” which was
held last year. Davidson's Wildcat Pep Band will entertain during the buffet. Kick-off time for the Davidson-Furman game is 2:00
p.m.
