PAGE FOUR

AT BARIUM SPRINGS

Orphanage senior Bill Gayle introduces himself to his Sunday school class. Several Davidson students teach at Barium Springs under the auspices of the YMCA.

Barium Springs Obtains Teachers From YMCA

By ED RUDERT
Davidsonian Feature Writer

For the second straight year, the YMCA is sending seven students each week to Barium Springs Orphanage to teach Sunday school classes. Every Sunday morning one of the two alternate crews goes to the Presbyterian-sponsored institution to teach seven of the twenty Sunday school classes. The two hundred children at Barium Springs make up almost the entire membership of Little Joe's Church at Barium. The limited number of adults outside the orphanage staff cannot adequately handle all of the Sunday school classes, and they prefer not to have the teachers and housemothers who are with the children all week also teach their Sunday school lessons.

The fourteen sophomores, juniors, and seniors from Davidson teach classes which range from fourth graders to senior high school students. Bob Rea, head of this particular “Y” project, commented that the interest shown by Davidson students has been very good. “Twenty-five applied, and of course we can use only fourteen. We are keeping some on reserve as substitutes. Right now we're only using upperclassmen, but we hope to work some freshmen in later.”

Rea stressed the fact that these boys who are participating are not all pre-ministerial students. He also mentioned that the Westminster Fellowship is initiating a program this year to teach Negro Sunday School classes in this area. “I hope some of these volunteers can take part in this project,” he said.

Dr. George S. Staples, College Chaplain, commended the interest shown by the fourteen students. “I think it’s one of those projects, like so many of the things the Y workers do, that has a two-way benefit. The kids at the orphanage get to know college-age men whom they wouldn’t get the opportunity to be with otherwise. It is also a real medium of service for the Davidson students taking part. In no sense of the word is this a manufactured project just to keep the boys busy.”

Rea commended the attitude of the boys taking part in the program. “They seem to feel that they are really getting a chance to do something for other people. There are some sacrifices involved in getting up at that time on Sunday morning and in the task of preparing a lesson,” he continued. “They always seem to come through. All last year there was only one occasion where there was a class without a teacher, and that resulted from a slip-up in arrangements. The kids at Barium Springs really seem to appreciate our coming up there,” Rea added with a smile. “It's really a kind of heartwarming sight to see all those kids come running up to meet you when you get there.”

Reading Is (Continued From Page One)

established to help students achieve more efficient reading skills. About ninety-five percent of students who complete the nine-week course make progress. Their rate of improvement ranges from twenty percent to three hundred percent, but the rate of comprehension does not go up much,” Mrs. Lilly concluded.

Mrs. Lilly has been director of the Developmental Reading Laboratory for about eight years. Formerly the Reading Laboratory was on

After Vespers

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Moore
Beatty
Griffin
Scott
Brown
Kelton
Stroud
Currie
Lilly
Tucker
Daggy
Lloyd
Watts
Fleming
J. G. Martin
Whittle
Gable

Student Body Gives Over $2,000 To Y

The YMCA financial drive among students ended this week with more than $2,000 contributed or pledged. Financial solicitation of the faculty and staff of the college began Wednesday and will continue until next week.

The financial goal of the Y this year is $3,775 and if response is good from the faculty and staff, Y leaders feel that the goal will be reached. The drive was termed “a success” by Bob (R. Henry) Moore, Y vice-president, and John Harris, Y treasurer. Moore and Harris, who headed this year’s drive, expressed their appreciation for “the excellent cooperation and hard work” which the 29 student solicitors gave to the drive.

Some confusion among students arose concerning the money set aside in the budget for the Y car and for the CA Fair Share. Moore explained that because of the extensive work of the Y, a car was needed and that this money was put into a fund to help replace

WE Announces Program Schedule

A study conference on Christian fellowship and a talk on the religious issue of the presidential campaign are the Westminster Fellowship’s program topics in the next three weeks, according to Phil Arnold, the group's program chairman. Arnold has engaged Father Cuthbert Allen, Vice Chancellor of Belmont Abbey, to discuss “Implications of a Catholic President.” The program will be held at 8:00 p.m. Friday, October 28, in the Student Lounge, and all interested students are invited to attend. On the weekend of Octoberthe present car with another |29-30, a study conference will be held at Camp Hill, Chapel near Hill, to discuss the ideas of Christian fellowship expounded by Dietrich Bonhoeffer in his book, Life Together. THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1960

Viennese Opera: Pride Of The Austrian Capital
By WOLFGANG MAYERHOFER
Richardson Scholar

Editor’s Note: This is the fourth in a series of articles written by exchange students on customs or characteristics of their homelands, or on their impressions of Davidson College.

The people of Vienna have set their hearts on the Viennese Opera more than on anything else in their city. When the opera was bombed and burned out during the war, it hit everybody. But immediately after the war we began to reconstruct it, even before we rebuilt our houses. This reconstruction of the Opera cost us millions of schillings which were paid out of our city taxes. And although it has been statistically proved that three-fourths of the Viennese have never seen their Opera from inside, nobody complained about spending so much money. Finally in 1955 — the year when Austria became a free and independent country again — we could reopen our Opera. I do not exaggerate when I say that it was a national event.

What makes people love their Opera so much that you can find headlines on the front page of the newspapers about it? With its approximately 2500 seats, it is not the biggest one. The acoustics are not perfect. The Mailaender Scala, it is said, has better singers. The only thing which is really superior is the Wiener Philharmonic Orchestra. The Viennese Opera is unique in the world because of its spirit — the spirit of the ensemble and the spirit of the audience. Although the ensemble consists of singers from all over the world, they have a feeling of belonging to the Viennese Opera. Otherwise, why would Jean Madeira from the Metropolitan Opera — our best Carmen — stay in Vienna every year for a couple of months, when she could make much more money in New York?

The second point concerns our audience. The most important people of the audience are not those people in expensive orchestra seats, but those who buy their standing room for fifteen cents. These people, mostly students, are called the “fourth gallery” — I don’t know why, as the Opera has only three galleries. They are considered the most critical, but also the most enthusiastic audience. The artist pays more attention to their reaction than to that of the people in the front seats. Every year there are some outstanding performances for which the fourth gallery lines up for tickets the night before the performance, waiting the whole night and the next day just to hear, for instance, Renata Tebaldi. When I was in high school and had more spare time, we went to the Opera about twice a month. It is perfectly all right to take your date to a standing-place, and line up for two or three hours for a regular performance. She will even pay for her ticket.

Every day there is at least half a page in every Viennese newspaper with criticism of the last performance, coming premieres, or stars. And the amazing thing is that even people who do not care about music read it, simply because you cannot make conversation without knowing what is going on in the Opera. The Viennese Opera has had many celebrities in its audience, such as businessman Henry Ford II; kings and queens from Europe, Africa, and Asia; and some months ago even Mr. Khrushchev. However, the Opera's fame did not come from these visitors. It is the love and faith of the Viennese which created and sustain the spirit of their Opera.

Tentative 1960-1961 Extra-Curricular Activities Schedule

FIRST AND THIRD MONDAY
TIME
Concert Band 7:00
Chapel Choir 4:30
Male Chorus 7:00
Student Council 7:30
Phi Mu Alpha 8:15
Philanthropic Literary Society 8:30 (Alternate Mon.)
Scabbard & Blade 7:30 (3rd Only)
ODK 10:15

TUESDAY
TIME
YMCA Cabinet 7:00
College Union 10:20
Concert Band 4:30
Male Chorus 7:00
Sigma Pi Sigma 7:00
DAVIDSONIAN 7:00
IMAC 7:00
IRC 8:00

WEDNESDAY
TIME
Chapel Choir 4:30
Male Chorus 7:00
Sigma Upsilon 8:30 (1st Only)
Delta Phi Alpha 9:15 (Alternate Wednesdays)
Business-Eco. 2:30 (2nd Wed.)
Eumanean Literary Society 8:30
IFC 10:00

THURSDAY
TIME
College Union 10:20
Concert Band 4:30
Male Chorus 7:00
Gamma Sigma Epsilon 7:00
Alpha Epsilon Delta 8:15

Every Friday: Male Chorus—4:30; Methodist Youth Fellowship—5:30; Westminster Fellowship—8:00.

Friday
2:30 p.m.—Residents of Belk and New Dormitories check out
3:00 p.m.—Dates check in
8:15 p.m.—Artist Series featuring the dance team of Goya and Matteo
9:00 p.m.—Dance in Johnston Gymnasium with Glenn Miller Orchestra (semi-formal).
12:00 p.m.—After dance parties

Saturday
All a.m.—Alumni registration
All a.m.—Judging of the Homecoming displays
12:30 p.m.—Alumni luncheon
2:00 p.m.—Football game with Richmond
4:30 p.m.—Receptions for Alumni, fraternities and
8:00 p.m.—Concert with Hi-Lo’s in Chambers Auditorium
10:00 p.m.—Dance in Johnston Gymnasium, featuring the Duke Ambassadors

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

my bottle of Coke in the other hand! Yes, dear diary, where would I be without Coca-Cola? Just a social outcast. Why, everybody drinks Coke! John and Bill and Barry and Charley. Horace too. Confidentially, I think I’ll have another bottle of Coke.

BE REALLY REFRESHED
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by