FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

A LOOK AT... SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

The Unpardonable Sin

OUR READER(S) sometimes write (see Letter to the Editor on adjacent page). Mr. Elvery tells us that Vice President Nixon
played football at Whittier College. We'd like to acknowledge that fact. But it must be added that Nixon was cut
from the squad his sophomore year. Nevertheless, he might be of some help to the Davidson football team. The United
States has no need of his services.

ALL SORTS of reasons have been offered to explain Davidson's lack of success in football. Could it be that the
boys are undernourished? You know, of course, where they eat. We eat there, too. And the peanut butter was never
better:

The Way To Victory

THE FROSH football team did it the hard way last Friday. Leading Wingate by 13 points, they lined up for
the extra point attempt. Trouble was, there were only 10 of them. Kicker Jim Fuller laid his foot to the
ball, but a Bulldog defender stood in its path. As luck would have it, the ball passed under his arm
and split the uprights. The 14th point turned out to be the margin of victory, since Wingate finished with 13
in the final tally.

IT’S ALWAYS nice when the climax to a season comes in the last meet. Though the cross country team is
pegged for third place in the conference meet, its number one runner is not. He may very well win it.
Sterling Martin has been beaten only twice this season: by VPI’s John Castagnola and VMI’s Bill Braithwaite. Coach Whittle claims
Martin could have taken Castagnola had he not told him to stay back and group with his teammates. Braithwaite this
week nudged Sterling by one-half a second. Their times were the third and fourth fastest yet run on the VMI
course. It should be a photo finish November 21 in Williamsburg.

Booters Lose Teammate

A MOST unhappy prelude to the soccer match last Friday was the fact that senior Dave Irvin had played his
last soccer for the Wildcats. The hard-playing wing seriously injured his knee during the match.

TOMORROW is Parents’ Day at Davidson. Mrs. Moore expects a full house. We hope that all the freshmen will take
their parents to the gymnasium and show them the trophy cases. The college has had many outstanding teams in the
past, some of them recently.

Don’t Get Us Wrong

TOMORROW also sees the Wildcat football team at Virginia Tech. If you'll remember, we've said for the past two weeks
that Davidson will lose this game—and the ones with Lehigh and Furman. Please don’t get us wrong. Don’t tag us
defeatist. As much as anyone else, we want to win. For a backhanded reason that’s why we say these things.
Davidson has some solid players—but not enough of them. More and better athletic scholarships are the only answer.

ON THIS same subject we recall a conversation with the cross country coach of East Mecklenburg High School. Also the
basketball coach, he said all of his cagers received college scholarships last year. This, he said, is one of the
real joys of coaching—to see your players have the opportunity for a college education through athletics. It made sense to
us.

‘Cats Take On Pfeiffer

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College soccer team faces Pfeiffer’s team tomorrow afternoon, here at Davidson, in an attempt to avenge an October
25th defeat at the hands of this same Pfeiffer team by a score of 1-0. This earlier defeat was the
first one inflicted upon the Wildcats this season: Davidson now has a record of 5 wins and 2 defeats. Says
Coach Paul Marrotte, “Our boys should really be up for this contest, but they have a strong team. They have
lost only to U.N.C. and Washington and Lee and will be stronger than when we first faced them because of
the return from the injured list of their best back. In addition, Dave Irvin, a starting wing, was lost to
us for the season in the U.N.C. game with a knee injury.”

Last Friday the ‘Cats lost their second game of the season to the University of North Carolina by a margin
of 2 to 1 in a double overtime. The first half of this contest was scoreless and Carolina scratched first
with a goal in the third quarter. Davidson surged back to tie the score early in the final quarter on
a pass from Mike Laughlin to Arnold Kroner, who scored the goal. The regulation period ended and with just one
and a half minutes in the second overtime the Tar Heels scored.

Harriers Prep For State Meet After Loss To VMI

The Davidson cross country team closed out a successful season Wednesday with a loss to VMI, 22-39. It gave the
’Cats a 7-2 record going into the state meet in Raleigh Monday. There the Wildcats will be contesting with Duke
and Carolina for the championship.

FIRST PLACE?

“I’m priming Sterling Martin to win first place,” said Coach Heath Whittle. The Blue Devils, defending champs, lost their two
top boys last season. UNC has at least one good runner. Whittle expects “a terrific battle with West Virginia and
VMI” in the Southern Conference meet November 21 in Williamsburg.

Wednesday's race was nothing short of fabulous.

ONE-HALF SECOND

Martin put out his best effort of the season, finishing one-half a second behind VMI's Bill Braithwaite, whose time was
22:02.5. The two runners ran the third and fourth fastest racesever recorded on the VMI course.

Whittle Drops Duties For Semester Of Study

Davidson track and cross country coach Heath Whittle is planning a sabbatical leave second semester to study the track, physical
education, and intramural sports programs of three Southern schools. The first stop in Whittle's southward migration will be in Atlanta
at Emory University. He will spend this time taking courses in gymnastics and physical education. Overall, Whittle expects the trip
to be stimulating. “I’m looking forward to it,” he states contentedly. “It’s going to enable me to suggest a better
intramural program here at Davidson, and also to do a better job with physical education.

“We may be able to offer an advanced course in gymnastics, for instance; whereas, we now can give only the
regular beginning course.”

“After thirty years one needs to get out and get some new ideas,” he continues lightly. “I’m looking forward to
this trip.” Coach Whittle expects Coach Shoe and Coach Thrift will fill in his vacancy during spring.

The real margin between the teams was the fact that Cadets bunched four in the first seven. For Davidson, Bill
was fifth and Captain David Gilmore seventh.

FROSH WIN

The frosh runners had better pickings. Steve Wood, Charlie Rowe, and Captain Tim Spiro placed second, third, and fourth, respectively,
to give the Wildkittens a 25-30 victory over the VMI freshmen. It was only the second time this season that
Martin, a 112-lb. sophomore, had not taken first place. VMI's Scarbrough copped the frosh victory with a time of 16:45.7.

As for the conference meet, Whittle said the ’Cats could run second. Davidson has lost to Furman and VMI. The
Cadets have lost to West Virginia, the best bet for first place.

Frosh Close Season, Nipping Wingate

The highly regarded edition of freshman football at Davidson broke into the win column in their last regular season match
with Wingate last Friday by a 14-13 margin. The charges of Coach Tom Stevens combined their individual talents into a
team to defeat the heavier Wingate eleven.

Work With ROTC

An outstanding example of Lt. Col. Bill Adam's policy for the ROTC department to help Davidson all it can is
Capt. Donald Threlkeld, newly-arrived armor man from Ft. Knox. Threlkeld (the name is Norse, mixed with English and Scotch) has
the usual teaching duties, but in addition is rifle coach and freshman football line coach. The captain coached in Hawaii
and Ft. Rucker, Ala., where one of his tackles was a former Davidson star—Carl Eborn.

A native of Albany, Ga., Threlkeld was a tackle on his high school team. He majored in physical education at
North Georgia College and is very enthusiastic about the frosh gridders, saying “there are eight or nine boys in there
that have real potential.” Head Coach Bill Dole expressed his appreciation for Threlkeld’s coaching job.

On the rifle squad, Threlkeld works with Sgt. Jim McCurry, whom he calls “a tremendous organizer. The boys believe in
him.” Davidson's shoulder-to-shoulder shooters racked up their first win here last Friday over Clemson, 1378-1373. Wofford was here today and
Richmond comes next Saturday. The Wildcats, defending Western North Carolina champs, play a 20-match slate. Threlkeld had praise for Don
Harper and Marvin Rozear, who finished 1-2 against Clemson. Threlkeld is married and has three children.

FUTILE EFFORT — is made by Tom Harris to stop Bill Shinn’s hook shot. The two lettermen are a big
part of Coach (Lefty) Driesell’s plans for a winning season. Shinn led the scoring last season with 319 points. The
‘Cats open here Dec. 3, against powerful Wake Forest.

Booters Bog Down, Lose Irvin, Seek To Avenge Loss To Pfeiffer

Had the second overtime expired the game would have officially been a tie. Says Marrotte of Carolina, “They definitely have
the best team we will see all season. They are well-coached and fundamentally sound and made very few mistakes for
us to take advantage of. Our team played as well as they have all season, but the Tar Heels also
played an outstanding game.”

This afternoon the Wildcats engaged Norfolk Navy Amphibious Base here at Davidson. This team has previously defeated North Carolina State
and presents the kind of well-balanced offensive and defensive team that is always a “toughie.” Next Friday, the team will
journey to Raleigh to face North Carolina State, which has a strong squad.

Davidson (1-4) Hits VPI (5-2)

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Tomorrow afternoon the Davidson College football team will take the field for the sixth time this season. The chance that
the ‘Cats will record a victory this time are mighty slim; according to the sportswriter, most observers have labeled the
game a mismatch. This is not to slander William and Mary, who spoiled Davidson's Homecoming, 35-6.

It will be the thirteenth meeting between the two schools. In past games, Tech has won nine, Davidson two, and
there has been one tie. Davidson will take with it to Blacksburg a 1-4 record, a lot of desire, and
unlimited respect for Coach Frank Moseley's squad.

EXPLANATION

The record is the result of a lot of tough breaks; the desire stems from the fact that the 'Cats
have a habit of never giving up; and the respect for VPI stems from the fact that Coach Dole and
his men have read the Gobblers’ record, and have watched films of some of their games. So far this season,
the Techmen have compiled a 5-2 record against tough competition. Their only losses have come at the hands of two
Atlantic Coast Conference powerhouses, N. C. State and Clemson. Their five wins, including three conference ones, have come against West
Virginia (15-0), Wake Forest (22-13), William and Mary (27-0), Virginia (49-6), and Richmond (20-0).

According to Coach Dole, the personnel is the best in the conference. Said Dole, “The linemen and tackles hit hard.”
Anchormen include Vaught, 210-lb. fullback; Terry Streck, halfback who tallied two TDs against Richmond last week.

Coach Dole plans no radical changes for the game. He hopes to play a conservative, ball control type game, and
give VPI as few scoring opportunities as possible. Once again he intends to use two platoons with the following starters:

OFFENSE—Ends, Mike Owen and Danny House; Tackles, John Crute and Scott Lacy; Guards, Cecil Holcomb and Dave Lovette; Center, Tom
Simpson; Backs, Kent Tucker, Jerry Sheffield, Duncan Morton, and Bob McAllister.

DEFENSE—Ends, Jennings Snider and Booker Clark; Tackles, Eddie Crutchfield and Bill Salzer; Guards, Bill Bankhead and Dick Voorhees; Linebackers, Joe
Ansley and Carl Hunt; and Backs, Duncan Morton, Bob Cordle, and Grant McRorie.

Two sophs, Carl Hunt and Eddie Crutchfield, are captains for the game.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

NOW! Come Up...All The Way Up to the MENTHOL MAGIC of KOOL!
1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
PRODUCTS
