HOCSAKS LEAVE (See Page Two) 

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

FORECAST: COOLER. Chance of Rain Tomorrow.

VOL. XLVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1960

Triumph The Student Davidsonians
By KNOX ABERNETHY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“It does strike us very forcibly that something about this institution (Davidson) is most sadly out of joint,” stated the Chester, S. C., Standard. The paper was discussing the more than half of the Davidson student body that left school because of a student-Faculty dispute.

On the night before Christmas vacation, December 21, 1855, a group of students, reportedly “angered at the presentation of some problems in the recitation room, which they could not solve,” rioted in front of the College Chapel. Three professors, Messrs. Rockwell, Leland, and “old Major” Hill investigated, but, according to a student’s account, were met by a barrage of rocks, one of which hit Major Hill.

FACULTY RETREATS
The Faculty retreated, according to the student legend, then counterattacked. “When the insurgents saw in the starlight the glistening of Major Hill's Mexican sword, they fled precipitately and sought concealment in their rooms.” The Faculty began a search of the rooms, but, curiously enough, all the students were either studying or innocently sleeping. All, that is, except one. This student refused to let the Faculty enter his room. Finally, his door was broken down with an ax, and he was found asleep in bed, fully dressed, even to his boots.

STUDENT SUSPENDED
The next day, he was suspended from college for three months because of “neglect of his studies, . . . having used disrespectful language about a Professor in a written essay, and . . . strong circumstantial evidence to convict him of having participated in a Riot . . .” The students demanded that he be reinstated, since he had been expelled on circumstantial evidence. The Faculty refused. After a great deal of noise, the students left for the Christmas holidays.

ONLY THREE RETURN
But only three students returned after the vacation. Nearly the entire student body stayed away from Davidson in protest of the Faculty’s action. For more than six weeks, college activities had to be suspended simply because there were no students. But the Faculty still refused to reinstate the suspended student. Of the former 75 students, 31 eventually returned, most of whom were Freshmen. However, the upper classes were so severely depleted, that only three diplomas were given that year. Ex-president Morrison summarized the incident by writing, “This is only one result of the former want of discipline, and vitiated sentiment becoming traditional with young men. If the College only gets free from lawless and riotous students it will do better hereafter.”

This $3200 represents the donations and pledges of 57% of the faculty and administration, and 60% of the student body. Three thousand dollars will pay for a surgical table and lights. The remaining $200 will be used for any other equipment necessary for the operation of the hospital.

The campaign, which began December 1, has been under the supervision and direction of Eifort’s Gift Fund Committee: Greg Grana, Sam Pope, Pat Douglas, Tom Patrick, Burt Keller, and Lee Kirby. Approximately fifty other solicitors served also. Eifort emphasized that anyone who has not yet contributed, or would like to do so further, should go by the YMCA office, or speak to one of the committee members.

Lig LONG Pi KAPP
ELIZABETH WILDMAN
ANNE RUSSELL
KATE BRADSHAW
MARY JO WHITTLE
CINDY MORCOCK
Cupid, St. Valentine, M
Over Villainous
JUDY BLASING
VIRGINIA BOPP
CHARLOTTE STRIBLING
BETSY MUNN
PIKA WANCY HELMS
PHI DELT

A TALE WORKED OVER: Winter Wonderland Is An Education For Alice

I. DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE. Alice went down, and down, and down. “How curious!” she thought. “I cannot remember when first I started to go down like this!” Suddenly it ended. Thump! Thump! Down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and her fall was over. Alice was not a bit hurt; in a moment she jumped up and looked around. The White Rabbit had fled. She was standing in a muddy wood, apparently on a high hill. She looked up, but it was dark overhead; in the distance she could faintly discern a cluster of domed and columned buildings. “How exciting!” exclaimed Alice, “I may be in ancient Greece! Or Rome! I wonder . . .”

At that very moment, a great Pig appeared before Alice. “Is this Rome?” cried Alice to the Pig. “Naw, dearie,” moaned the Pig, “but it’s hell on Christians all the same.” The Pig began to ruffle her skirts. “Darn. Lookit that. My tail is a mess.” “Why are you running away? Is this place perilous?” asked Alice.

“Queried Alice, “what has been happening down there?” “You'll hafta see it to believe it,” said the Queen, lumbering off across the hill. “G'wan down there. But watch out for the blond guy in the waistcoat; he’s pretty raunchy.” Alice started. The White Rabbit! She began to run down the hill. “How curious!” she thought.

II. THE MAD TEA-PARTY
The columned buildings were deserted. Alice could hear music and voices in the distance, but she knew not where they were. She stopped before the largest building. Inscribed above the columns were some curious words. “How curious!” exclaimed Alice. Suddenly she heard a voice: “Hiya, baby. You unattached?” The White Rabbit, clad in a paisley waistcoat, stood behind her. “Where—where did you come from?” Alice cried. “Beautiful but naive,” muttered the Rabbit—and then to Alice: “You wanna go to the party with me? My date—damn pig—ran off somewhere.”

“How extraordinary!” Alice thought. Presently they stopped. They had come to a low hall, hung outside with lights. From inside came shouts and the thumping of great drums. The Rabbit led her inside. The hall was dark, and deserted.but for a cluster of Nubians or Ethiopians about the drums. “Are they Hottentots?” inquired Alice. “Right,” said the Rabbit, and began to sing again: “... Get ‘em atta peanut stan, yeah, yeah, yeah...” Alice was silent. Presently they walked to a table upon which rested a tall bottle. Tied round the neck of the bottle was a paper label with the words “DRINK ME” printed in large letters. “How curious!" said Alice. “Aw, g’wan,” said The Rabbit. “Live a little.” “No, I'll look first,” she said, “and see if it’s marked poison or not.” “Christ,” moaned the Rabbit. “How foggy can a girl get?” However, this bottle was NOT marked “poison”, so Alice ventured to taste it, and finding it very nice, she very soon finished it off. “What a curious feeling!” said Alice; “I must be shutting up like a telescope!” “God forbid,” said the Rabbit, and he took a drink from the bottle. Alice felt very queer indeed. Finally, her eyes focused again and she looked about the hall. Many people were arriving. She looked at the Rabbit. He was chuckling.

(Continued On Page Four)

NUMBER SIXTEEN

Midwinters Flu Bug
Joni, Satchmo, Lead Weekend Spectacular
By FRANK STAFFORD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Midwinters dance weekend began today with the arrival of more than 600 girls on the Davidson campus. Recording star Joni James, who has been voted as “America's Favorite Female Vocalist” by straw voting among disc-jockeys, record dealers, and fans, officially began the weekend festivities with a concert in Chambers Auditorium from 7:30 until 9:00 P.M. The Duke Ambassadors, under the direction of Robert Rayson, played at tonight’s formal dance, which was held from 9:30 till 1:00. The Ambassadors, a group of fifteen musicians and a vocalist, have been on several European and Caribbean tours. Highlighting the evening at 10:45 was the presentation of the IFC and fraternity presidents with their sponsors. Joni James, accompanied by the Duke Ambassadors, made a special appearance at the dance from 11:00 until 11:45.

Conclaves Attract Davidson Students

Davidson students will attend two different conferences in the coming weeks. A ministerial conference is scheduled at Union Seminary, New York, while Sewanee will be host to a philosophy conference. The conference at Union Seminary will be held March 11-13. It is primarily designed to present the Christian ministry to men who are undecided about what profession to follow. Speakers will include Paul Tillich and Rev. Robert J. McCracken, pastor of New York’s Riverside Church. All interested students should contact Dr. Staples. A philosophy conference will be held at Sewanee on February 27-28. Participating students will submit papers for criticism and discussion by other students from Sewanee, Emory, Agnes Scott, and the University of Chattanooga. The central theme for this year's conference is existentialism. The conference, now in its eighth year, was originated by the philosophy departments at Sewanee and Emory. Davidson students have participated for the past five years. An interesting feature of this conference is that no professors are allowed to participate in any of the discussions.

Earlier this week, the music department unveiled much of its spring program, including the annual male chorus tour. On February 23rd the Male Chorus and Davidson College will be host to the Sullins College Choir who will give a concert with the Male Chorus. Then on February 26th the Male Chorus will travel to Sullins Choir to give a concert there.

MALE CHORUS TOUR

Florida will be the section in which the Male Chorus will tour this spring. The trip will begin April 2 and end on the 9th with the group returning on the 10th. This year, the chorus will be accompanied by the Queens College Choir, and they will present concerts in Jacksonville, St. Petersburg, Miami, Palm Beach, and Ocala, and at Rollins College and Stetson University. The Chorus and Queens College Choir will also present a concert here as a part of the Fine Arts Festival. This event will take place in the latter part of April.

BAND TOUR

Another tour has been announced. This is the one which the concert band will soon take, with their travels extending from Virginia to Ohio and Kentucky. The spokesman for the Music Department said, however, that no plans were definite for this event. Recitals will be given during the latter part of April and during the first of May. Organ Recitals are to be given by William McGowan, organist, Old North Church, Boston, on April 25th and by David Atchison, Senior, on May 2nd, at the Church. Mrs. Louise Pfohl will give a piano recital on April 26th. Students from central North Carolina high schools will participate in vocal contests here on February 20th and in instrumental contests on February 27th.

YOUTH ORCHESTRA

The Piedmont Youth Orchestra, Incorporated, elected its (Continued On Page Four)