PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

About Extra Day Drake Is Doubtful

The Committee on Academic Scheduling has not considered the possibility of extending Christmas holidays to include Monday, January 2. Dr. J. T. Drake, chairman of the committee, said when questioned this week. The schedule this year follows the custom of coming back on Monday after Christmas holidays. As the schedule now stands, many students will have to spend all or a large part of New Year's Day, which is Sunday, coming back to school. Dr. Drake said that it is probably too late to change the schedule now and that there is no point in bringing it up in a faculty meeting. He further stated, however, that he has no objection if it is proposed again but feels that there is little chance of getting faculty approval. “I don't think that the college would lose its official standing if we cut off one day of classes,” Dr. Drake commented, in reference to the reason that has been given as to why the holiday schedule couldn’t be changed. Drake is polling the members of the Committee on Academic Scheduling to determine their reaction to this change.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
- Brown
- Corrie
- Daggy
- Fleming
- Gable
- Griffin
- Kelton
- Lilly
- Marrotte
- J. G. Martin
- Scott
- Stroud
- Tucker
- Watt

Depp Will Speak At Vesper Service

Dr. Mark Depp will be the guest speaker at the Sunday night Vespers. Dr. Depp, minister of the Centenary Methodist Church at Winston-Salem, is a graduate of Boston University and has served churches in Pittsburgh, Baltimore, and Washington, D.C. Dr. Depp has spoken several times before at Davidson. The music for the Sunday Vespers will be furnished by the Salem College Choral Group. The group consisting of about 35 girls will be accompanied by a string ensemble also from Salem.

Differences in Systems of British Education

By STEVE WOOD
Richardson Scholar

There are some important differences between the American and English systems of education. One thing I would like to do is to dispel the illusion under which most Americans live. It is not difficult to obtain a place at Oxford or Cambridge. The reason why it is difficult for Americans to go there to study is the different type of education they received in this country. In England, we specialize in one subject — science, language, and so on — from about the age of fifteen years. Education in England is compulsory between the ages of five and fifteen, and the child may be sent by his parents to either a Public (or State School), or a private school. The local authorities are responsible for the provision of adequate public schools. Ninety per cent of the nine million children in England attend public schools.

Pre-Med Fraternity Initiates 22 Men

On Tuesday, November 15, twenty-two Davidson College students were initiated into the North Carolina Alpha Chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, national honorary premedical fraternity. The stated purposes of the society are “to encourage excellence in pre-medical scholarship, to stimulate an appreciation of the importance of pre-medical education in the study of medicine, and to promote cooperation and contacts between medical and pre-medical students and educators.”

Octogenarian Recalls Grave-Robbing Past

By LEONARD RICHARDSON
Davidsonian Feature Editor

“I'm a ghoul.” Sam Thompson chuckled. “Did you know that? This fall I’m going to New York City to be on ‘I’ve Got a Secret,’ and my secret’s going to be that I was a grave robber.” It sounds incredible, but it’s true. Sam Thompson used to help medical students rob local Negro cemeteries to get cadavers for the old Davidson Medical College.

How did he get involved in grave-robbing excursions? Before Thompson entered college in 1899, four medical students were boarding with his family in their frame house off Concord Road. He would keep track of recent funerals, then accompany them to exhume the body. They arranged for a Negro with a mule-drawn carriage to deliver the corpses to the Medical College Building during the night.

“We’d get them about the second night after they were buried,” he admitted. “We never had any trouble except for one time. There was this Negro with a big gold tooth, and we dug him up and took him over to the Medical Building and put him in the vat. A couple of days later they had him all stripped down when one of the janitors over there noticed that big gold tooth.” The news spread to the victim's relatives and they made the college bury him again. “I think they sued the college for several thousand dollars.”

Most of their body-snatching seemed to go unnoticed, except for one night when their Negro driver was surreptitiously delivering a corpse from the cemetery to the Medical Building. As he drove past some men on the road, they saw the body in the moonlight slumped in the back of the buggy. Thinking quickly, the driver turned to the corpse, gave it a firm shake, and shouted for all to hear, “Come on and sit up now! You're not THAT drunk!” The men kept on walking without even looking back.

Eighty-three-year-old Samuel A. Thompson graduated from Davidson College in 1904, and he modestly recalls his athletic record. “I locked the guard's and tackle’s legs together, and everybody thought they had the ball. Caldwell went around right end and scored. We won the game.” After a baseball game, they carried him all over the field when he saved the day by catching the ball in right field when the score was 2-1, two men on base, in the ninth inning with two men out.

When I visit my daughter in Albany, I would like to do is to dispel the illusion under which most Americans live. It is not difficult to obtain a place at Oxford or Cambridge. The reason why it is difficult for Americans to go there to study is the different type of education they received in this country. In England, we specialize in one subject — science, language, and so on — from about the age of fifteen years. Education in England is compulsory between the ages of five and fifteen, and the child may be sent by his parents to either a Public (or State School), or a private school. The local authorities are responsible for the provision of adequate public schools. Ninety per cent of the nine million children in England attend public schools.

Sharpshooters Vie in Turkey Contest

The Davidson College Rifle Team in conjunction with the ROTC department will stage its annual turkey shoot, Monday, November 21, in the sub-basement of Belk Dormitory. The shoot will be open to the Davidson faculty, staff, retired personnel, and their families. Participants will be allowed to shoot for turkeys and other prizes during the hours of four to seven in the afternoon. The prizes will be donated by local Davidson merchants and will include such things as turkeys, free haircuts, and oil changes.Changes: Faculty and personnel will compete with .22 target rifles. Refreshments will be served. Scabbard and Blade in conjunction with the faculty of medicine, aim to promote cooperation and contacts between medical and premedical students and educators in developing an adequate program of premedical education, and to bind together similarly interested students. Students initiated Tuesday were as follows:

Children attend free schools maintained by public funds. Primary education from five to eleven is taught to boys and girls together, but after that age, most schools are for boys or girls, but not for both together. At the age of eleven, these children move on to one of several types of secondary school courses, having taken a most important public examination which can decide the life work of the child. If he fails this test, he is more than likely committed to some manual job after his secondary education; if he passes, he has the opportunity of going to University after going to Grammar school. The private or ‘Public’ schools, as they are called, the “national heritage of England,” are only for the few who can afford to pay the equivalent of $1100 each year for the education. This may seem very little to some Americans, but it is a substantial part of an Englishman's income. Boys who go to these schools do not live in luxury but have to contend with deplorable conditions in archaic buildings. These schools find it difficult to contend with the Grammar schools which are being built today, and which give the student a good education, but which do not build up the qualities of the student as in the “Public” schools. After schooling, many students go on to University. There are over 9500 students in the 23 Universities, which are independent, self-governing institutions, although nearly three-fourths of their income is derived from public funds. It is a difficult task to choose a subject that would be of interest to such a varied community. I feel that it is far too early in the year to be critical since many of my criticisms are still first impressions.

All are juniors with the exception of seniors Bivins and Packer. There will be prizes and movies for the children.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1960

‘Straight Comedy’ First Semester Exam Schedule

Col. W. L. Adams, Steve Maxwell will star in the third of the one-act comedies, “It Should Happen to a Dog,” a kind of comic-strip commentary on Jonah and the Whale, written by Wolfe Mankowitz. A new feature of the Vagabonds this time will be the “Vagabondettes,” six girls from North Mecklenburg High School who will act as usherettes and sell crackerjack and soft drinks. Dr. Goodykoontz stated that he expects the “Vagabondettes” to participate in many of the future productions, both as usherettes and as members of the cast in later plays. Admission for the presentation will be 75c, with subscribers admitted free. Dr. Goodykoontz announced that there will be no performance on the 21st of November, as was mistakenly announced in “This Week In Davidson.”

Gill Fund Project

Bob Rea has been selected as the chairman of the 1960 YMCA Christmas Gift Fund Project, Jimmy Richardson, Y President, announced this week. Rea and a committee of five assistants are presently studying material from about 15 organizations in search of suitable projects to present to the student body for acceptance. Within the next week, they will narrow their suggestions to three. These three proposals will be presented to the student body through chapel programs in early December. Aiding Rea in the program are Al Jones, Joe Eifort, Kookie Kapoor, Bert Keller, and Tom Patrick. Last year, the student body raised funds for new operating room equipment to be used in the Bangkok Christian Hospital in Thailand. Rea urged that the Student Community begin thinking about the coming financial drive for the Christmas project, and stated, “This is the time when we students need to consider our table of values and sacrifice something for ourselves so that we can give to those who are not as fortunate as we.”

With characteristic originality, Gant varies a classic theme with softly mellowed checks of imported wool and cotton blend. Long-sleeved button-down, impeccably fashioned, RUSH WILSON LTD.

“I never was big enough to play the big positions — just guard and tackle. They made me coach of the scrub team. The only big thing I ever did in football was the time they carried me all over the field after the game. It was the last of the last half. We had the ball with 11 yards to go for a goal. I stepped back to Morris Caldwell and said, ‘You go around right end. I'm going to lock their legs together.’”

Jerry Cole, IFC President, asked that anyone who knows how to get in touch with ‘The Midnighters,’ a rock-n-roll combo, please see him. He rooms in 308 Little.

Zeroing in on the future

At Gen Tel, our aim is to develop the supercommunications system that will be needed to meet the demands of tomorrow. And we're constantly shooting new ideas at this target. In our 24 research laboratories, more than 3500 scientists and engineers have their sights set on entirely new concepts in order to achieve these results. Example: a task force of General Telephone & Electronics scientists, working in the unexplored areas of electroluminescence and photoconductivity, have developed an operating model of a switching device with no moving parts, that may revolutionize telephone communications. It is a thin wafer only 3 inches square that may someday connect and disconnect up to 10,000 telephone lines. Meanwhile, this new discovery holds promise of having numerous applications in other fields, including switching and read-out devices for electronic computers. Research is but one of the many areas in which General Telephone & Electronics is thinking and working ahead — not only to meet today's communications needs, but tomorrow's as well.

When your taste tells you it's time for a change, remember: Only Kool — no regular filter cigarette, no other menthol cigarette — gives you real Menthol Magic!