Catfish Dunk “te tie YMCA Evaluation: (See Page Two) South Carolina (See Page Three) The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College VOL. XLVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 1960 NUMBER THIRTEEN

Great Issues Will Offer Forum Of Foreign Affairs

The Great Issues Committee will sponsor a Great Issues Series on foreign affairs sometime in April. The program will consist of speakers, either local or outside, to discuss topics relating to foreign affairs. The purpose of the Great Issues Committee, which is made up of representatives from the YMCA, the Student Union, the Business Economics Club, and the IRC, is to pool the resources of these organizations in order to present one broad, informative program instead of several smaller less-effective ones. The faculty chairman of this committee is Dr. Paul Marrotte of the history department. Mr. C. Shaw Smith, who is working closely with the committee, announced that a student chairman would be selected at a later date. He further said that the series was to be “as student-centered as possible.”

The committee met Monday night to select a speaker for the series. Plans, however, are still in the early stages, and it has not been decided whether there will be only one speaker giving several talks or various speakers making only one appearance each. The length of the program will depend on the type of speakers. The theme, other than the general heading of foreign affairs, has not been selected yet. This Great Issues series has been met with great enthusiasm by outside organizations and the college administration. The Great Issues Committee was invited last Monday to WSOC-TV to be guests for dinner and discussion of this program with Joseph C. Harsch, senior NBC news commentator. Also working with the committee is Dr. Harold Ford of the State Dept., formerly political science professor at Davidson, who has just completed a round-the-world tour. The college administration, which has been impressed by two earlier series on political thought and economics, is doubling financial aid for this series. Speaking for the committee, Mr. C. Shaw Smith said, “While the budget is still small, we are most encouraged at the administration’s view of the series and their financial interest in backing it.” John Stone and Mr. Smith have recently returned with fresh ideas from the Student Conference on National Affairs (SCONA) at Texas A&M, and they should be able to contribute much to the program.

Reveals Alcoholic Past

BY LEONARD RICHARDSON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

What happened in Elm Row? Since last week when the small brick building was moved approximately one hundred feet south, a number of perplexing discoveries have been made at the original site. At least six professors and many students have been combing through the mud and hand-chiseled foundation stones. Bottles are the main artifacts unearthed—wine bottles, beer and ale bottles, whiskey bottles, and even a Bromo-Seltzer bottle. Dr. Chalmers Davidson has found three old bottles on which he refused to comment until he can get some information about their age and value from the libraries of the cities in which they were made. Another professor discovered a bottle marked 1837, the year in which Elm Row was first used as a dormitory. A junior has unearthed two ale bottles of amber glass and a glass flask with a bit of leather-like orange peel rattling in the bottom. Dr. Donald Plott found several long-necked handblown tinted glass bottles, all undated. A controversial discovery is the half-decayed remains of a girl’s shoe. Less challenging but still of interest are a fragmentary 1895 Southern Railway timetable, the jawbone of a rat, and many pieces of broken dishes.

The four-roomed Elm Row was one of four dormitories opened to sixty-five students in 1837. Of the four, only two survive. Originally four men occupied each room and were required to keep their rooms clean and in good order—a rule enforced by faculty inspections. In the 1840s a list of faculty regulations made it their duty “To frequently visit rooms and observe their conditions at any hour of the day or night.” A professor seeking admission had the right to force entrance. If damage to the door resulted it was charged to the student refusing entrance. This police system of the faculty was distasteful to the students, but it lasted for a long time. Dr. Davidson has suggested that in those days students cleverly pulled up a board and dumped the bottles under the floor when warned of a faculty raid. Between 1845 and 1849 ten or more students were suspended for intoxication—two being guilty during Commencement in 1847 and adding to their sin by cursing one Professor Wilson. In 1845 Major D. H. Hill explained his plan to publish the grades of the students in the catalogue of the college. “But for the great mass of students there is no stimulus at all and unless fortified with high religious principle, most speedily acquire idle habits and learn to drone away their time between lounging, cards, cigars, and whiskey punch.”

When Elm Row is situated across from Oak Row, it will be in the approximate position earlier occupied by Tammany, a similar brick structure which was torn down in 1901 and incorporated in Shearer Hall, then being erected. The move to its new position was executed to make room for the new Fine Arts Building. It has been rumored that in the Civil War years a student who hurriedly left college carefully hid a bag filled with coins under the floor of Elm Row, his dormitory, hoping to recover it when he returned from the War. The story goes that he discreetly mentioned the treasure in his diary which has since been lost. Since the student was killed in battle, he never returned to recover his money. Although one professor who heard the story was skeptical because of the lack of proof, he agreed that there is a chance old coins dropped through the (Continued On Page Four)

Signed by the IFC to appear at Mid-Winters are Louis Armstrong and Velma Middleton as they appeared here in concert during the spring of 1957. They will also appear during the February 12-13 weekend.

Announce Aid Grants

On Christmas Eve, the Atomic Energy Commission announced a $5000 gift to Davidson, which is to be used for offering instruction in the use of radioisotopes. Davidson was one of six colleges to receive the money, with which radioisotopes will be purchased from AEC. The program of instruction will be headed by Physics professor John I. Hopkins, formerly of the staff at Oak Ridge, Tennessee. The AEC-sponsored gift program is now in its third year, and is given with the understanding that all the cash will be spent within the year.

Davidson College has again been selected as one of the privately financed United States colleges and universities to receive unrestricted grants-in-aid under the aid-to-education program of Texaco Inc., it was announced this week by President D. Grier Martin. Although the grant of $1,500 is unrestricted as to use, it will strengthen Davidson's current faculty salary budget, Martin said. Davidson is one of more than 200 colleges and universities included in Texaco’s program of educational support. In addition to providing for direct financial assistance to 140 privately financed schools, the program includes scholarship and fellowship assistance for approximately 300 young men at more than 80 educational institutions, both private and tax-supported.

The Shell Companies Foundation, Incorporated, has donated $1,500 to Davidson, the third such donation since 1958, when the Shell Assists program was established. The donation consists of three $500 grants, one for development of academic facilities, a grant for development of departmental facilities, and a $500 free fund. The grant for academic development, supervised by Dean Johnston, is designed to encourage “additional professional development of the individual members of any of the school’s faculties.” The Physics department will receive the second $500 grant, which is intended “for additional professional development of individual faculty members.” The Shell Assist is intended to be used to encourage additional scholarly activities for the faculty, such as attendance at professional meetings, personal research, travel, and “the general well-being of faculties in a contemplative atmosphere.”

YMCA’s Gift Fund Reaches $3000 Mark

In a statement earlier this week, Joe Eifort, chairman of the YMCA’s Christmas Gift Fund drive, announced that as of Tuesday, January 5, a total of $2747.50 had been contributed to the Gift Fund. From 475 students and 74 faculty members, contributions have come in steadily. He also commented, “We are confident that contributions will reach $3,000, and possibly considerably higher.”...and hope that everything will be cleared up before exams, so that a final report can be made immediately after exams. In addition to this amount, another five to six hundred dollars have been received. He also requested that those people who have not been contacted by a solicitor, and who would like to contribute to the fund, leave their contributions in the office of the college chaplain, on the second floor of Student Union. Lights and an operating table costing approximately $3,000 have already been ordered for the Bangkok Christian Hospital. The contributions have come from faculty members. Another 118 students are to be paid in the near future. Eifort stated that after a...

Joni James, Louis Armstrong Mid-Winters Weekend Dance Music Furnished By Duke Ambassadors

By BOB MOORE
Editor

Joni James, popular recording star for M-G-M records, and Louis Armstrong, the first great jazz soloist to achieve a worldwide influence, will give concerts during the Mid-Winters dance weekend, February 12 and 13. The Duke Ambassadors will furnish the music for both the Friday and Saturday night dances.

On Friday night of Mid-Winters in Chambers Auditorium, Joni James will give a concert from 7:30 until 9:00. The formal dance will begin immediately following the concert in the Johnson Gymnasium. Joni James will also appear for forty-five minutes at the dance.

FAVORITE VOCALIST

Joni James’ first top-selling record was her M-G-M recording of “Why Don’t You Believe Me” which reached the number one spot on nearly every popularity and sales chart. Since the fall of 1952, she has consistently placed as “America’s Favorite Female Vocalist” in straw votes held among disk-jockeys, record dealers, and record fans. Joni has made many top recordings which include: “Little Things Mean A Lot”, “Fools Rush In”, “My Funny Valentine”, and “In The Still Of The Night”.

Louis Armstrong and his All-Stars will give a concert Saturday afternoon from 2:30 until 4:00 in Chambers Auditorium. Armstrong and his All-Stars will appear at the Saturday night dance for an hour concert. “Satchmo” last played at Davidson in the spring of 1957, a return engagement after his tremendously successful appearance on Valentine's Day, 1955. That was the evening of the fire at the Davidson Theater, but Armstrong's concert so held the attention of the student body that the building burned to the ground in the presence of only 30 eyewitnesses.

FATHER OF JAZZ

Armstrong, considered by most jazz enthusiasts as “The Father of Jazz”, has been overwhelmingly accepted during his worldwide concert tours. During his 1955 European tour, there were riots in virtually every country when the supply of seats gave out for his concerts. He has made many film appearances which include: “Pennies From Heaven”, “Artists and Models”, “A Song Is Born”, and “The Glenn Miller Story”. Leonard Feather, author of THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF JAZZ, stated, “Armstrong’s technical facility is exceptional; more important, the emotional intensity and basic simplicity of his solos, particularly in playing the blues, has no parallel in jazz.”

WELL-KNOWN BAND

The Duke Ambassadors will provide the music for both the Friday and Saturday night dances. The sixteen-piece band under the direction of Pat Williams is well-known in this section of the country for its fine dance music. The Ambassadors have made several Caribbean and European tours. IFC President Ward McKeithen stated, “The Interfraternity Council is very pleased with the prospects of a successful dance weekend, featuring two such outstanding personalities as Joni James and Louis Armstrong. We feel an emphasis upon noted vocal attractions backed by a good dance band is what the student body desires for the Mid-Winters dance weekend. A great deal of emphasis has been placed upon the concerts in hopes of encouraging greater student participation.”

"Y" Boosts Ringe To Editor Position

The YMCA Cabinet elected Charles Ringe to the position of Wildcat Handbook Editor for 1960-61. Ringe was chosen from a field of nominees whom the "Y" Cabinet and a committee consisting of those who worked on this year's handbook had nominated. Ringe is a junior and is majoring in psychology. He has previous experience in handbook work and has also served on the staff of Scripts and Pranks. Ringe has already begun some important preparations for the 1960-61 handbook. He and Bill Hellier, this year's editor, are working together in evaluating the present handbook and in making plans for the new one. Ringe has also taken steps toward appointing his staff by naming Jim Jamison, a sophomore, to the position of business manager. Jamison will succeed Pete Kellogg. Numbers of people have expressed interest in handbook work, and all of these will be sent a letter concerning this matter. Also, there will be a meeting for all those who are interested in working in this capacity on Tuesday afternoon, December 15, after drill in one of the Union rooms which will later be announced.

Eight Students Join Ecumenical Sessions

During the Christmas holidays, eight Davidson students attended the 18th Ecumenical Student Conference on the Christian World Mission at Athens, Ohio, December 27-January 2. Participating in this ecumenical gathering were over 3,600 students, graduates and undergraduates, 1000 of whom were overseas students studying in North America. The Conference was sponsored by the United Student Christian Council and the World’s Student Christian Federation. The purpose of the Conference was to discover what God is doing in the revolutionary and chaotic world in which we live and to attempt to discern how we may respond to Him as Christian students.

MOULDING FORCES

Through forums on technological upheavals, new nationalisms, militant non-Christian faiths, communism, modern secularism, racial tensions, responsibility for statesmanship, students and the university world, and displaced, rejected, uprooted peoples, we were presented with the forces moulding and shaping the life of the world. For many of us, it was a “shaking of the foundations,” a shattering of our preconceived attitudes and ideas about our world and the Church's relation to it. We were confronted with the forces that the Church, for the most part, has not significantly grappled with or spoken to. To help us come to grips with these problems, Bishop Lesslie Newbigin of the Church of South India presented the Biblical basis for understanding and discerning God's activity amidst these problems. Other speakers were the Reverend Martin Luther King on racial tensions; Dr. Kermit Eby, professor of social science at the University of Chicago, on technological upheavals; the Reverend Harry Daniel, General Secretary of the Student Christian Movement of India, on militant non-Christian faiths.

NO EASY ANSWERS

Through group Bible study, fireside discussions on the most critical issues and situations for the Church today, we attempted to discern how we as Christian students could relate our faith to these perplexing problems. What we learned was not pleasant. What we did learn made sense about our chaotic and confused world, but the sense contradicted much of what we liked to believe and made nonsense of our pious platitudes. There were no easy answers to solve these perplexing problems. Many of us left Athens more confused than we came. Our only certainty being that as we individually respond to God and involve ourselves in the concrete situations to which He has called us, perhaps the answers will come.

—Dave Mullen