FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1960 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Wildcats Fly To Lehigh-Feet

A LOOK AT... SPORTS

Win Over Virginia Tech Called The Greatest Ever

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

By Bill Godwin

THEY SAID it couldn’t be done. We did, too. Here was an opponent who had been rated the strongest team
in the Southern Conference by almost everyone—including Coach Bill Dole. The Techmen had rolled over Virginia, Richmond, Wake Forest, West
Virginia, and William and Mary. They had lost narrowly to powerhouses Clemson and North Carolina State.

DAVIDSON, on the other hand, was one and four on the season. VPI’s publicity releases that week mentioned Davidson only
parenthetically, looking forward to the George Washington game today. The Davidson game was to be a piling on of statistics
for Tech, nothing more. The school newspaper predicted a 49-0 score, making such remarks as, “There’s been a nasty rumor
floating around. It’s not true. Davidson WILL show up for the game.”

IT STARTED raining on Saturday. Miles Stadium, built into an earth-well, was the picture of gloom, flanked by the castle-type
walls of campus buildings. BECAUSE they expected a slim turn-out for the game, the Gobblers had arranged for neighboring high
school students to get in for 50 cents a head. A resounding chorus of “boos” greeted the Wildcats onto the
field.

MEANWHILE, your sports editor was groping his way through the mountains of Virginia, having misjudged the driving time to Blacksburg.
At 2:05 p.m., 35 minutes late, he arrived in a drizzling rain. A grating roar went up from the crowd
as he stepped from the car. He could imagine what was registered on the scoreboard.

PASSING through the gate, he saw the score: 7-0. Not until he reached the press box (the one dry place
in the stadium) did he realize that the touchdown was Davidson’s. The high schoolers had appointed themselves our cheering section.
Any visions of a lucky Wildcat break were shattered when the halftime stats came out and credited the Gobblers with
only two first downs. A COUPLE of the VPI spotters left “to light a fire under the Gobblers.” Did they
succeed? “Yeh,” said someone sarcastically as the third period wore on.

DAVIDSON added two points with a safety and as early as 10:50 remaining in the fourth period, most Gobbler rooters
were willing to concede. EVEN WHEN VPI pushed across a late touchdown, you had the feeling that Davidson still commanded
the game. A 71-yard touchdown run by the Gobblers was called back because of a holding penalty. You were not
suddenly shocked, then relieved, for the touchdown was not meant to be.

SOMEHOW, those who had watched the Wildcats week in and week out forgot about the other weeks. There was admiration
for a well-played game between two good teams. THE BOMB of amazement did not explode until the Wildcats lifted Coach
Dole and carried him across the field. Davidson had played its greatest game—ever.

Last Saturday night at 10:30, about two-hundred jubilant Davidsonians jammed the Ballroom of the College Union, as first President Martin
and then Coach Dole stood in front of the Wildcat football team and proclaimed “the greatest victory ever for a
Davidson football team.” Just five hours earlier, Coach Dole had been carried to the center of the field by these
same Wildcat warriors who had scored a momentous 9-7 victory over powerful V.P.I. before 4000 onlookers who were too stunned
by developments to feel either wet or chilled in rainy Blacksburg.

Says Coach Dole, “I thought if we could hold them defensively... if we could keep moving our defenses around... we'd
have a chance.” Davidson did.

TOOK COMMAND

The first half saw Davidson completely dominate the field as the Wildcat defenses held the Gobblers to 48 yards net,
while the Davidson offense was moving the ball for a phenomenal 191 yards. Davidson scored its touchdown with 6:28 remaining
in the second quarter on a nine-yard pass from Tee Redding to Danny House. Bruce Usher added the extra point.
This score climaxed a 76-yard scoring drive, with the Wildcats covering the ground in 13 plays.

V.P.I.’s Gobblers returned to the field for the second half an aroused ball team, but the strong ‘Cat defenses coupled
with their own offensive ineptness proved too much for the conference leaders. With 4:01 left in the third quarter, V.P.I.’s
Johnny Watkins picked up a Sheffield punt on his two-yard-line and was dumped in the end zone by Danny House
to give Davidson its margin of victory.

GOBBLERS SCORE

With 5:09 remaining in the game, the Gobblers finally scored on the tiring ‘Cat defenses, marching 25 yards for the
score with Art Pruett going the last three. Davidson had just held the V.P.I. offense for downs on the seven-yard-line.
In the closing minutes, a 71-yard scoring play was nullified for the Gobblers because of a holding penalty and two
plays later Sheffield intercepted a pass and the Wildcats ran out the clock for their victory.

Particularly praiseworthy in this team victory was the work of the left side of the Davidson line which blocked superbly
against the publicized right side of the V.P.I. line. On offense, Alex Gibbs had 83 yards in 13 carries and
Jerry Sheffield had 59 in 10 tries for the Wildcats. This upset knocked the Techmen out of a tie for
the conference lead and pulled the Wildcats out of the cellar, up to sixth place.

Harriers To Duplicate State Meet Showing?

The Davidson College cross-country team enters the Southern Conference meet on November 21 with aspirations of a third-place finish. The
'Cat harriers carry a 7-2 record into the meet at Williamsburg, Va., on the coattails of sophomore star Sterling Martin.
Finishing behind the traditional Carolina and Duke, Davidson swept to third place in the state meet Monday. Ten teams entered
the contest. Top runner Sterling Martin ran well only to finish fourth behind two Carolina representatives and a High Point
entry.

At Williamsburg, West Virginia is favored for the championship slot, since winning over VMI in an early season match. However,
the Cadets will be primed for a real battle. Davidson, Furman, and VPI will be the “dark horse” entries with
the ‘Cats sporting the best of the three. This year’s meet will premier a conference meet for freshmen. The ‘Cat
frosh will enter with hopes of matching the varsity third-place finish. The meet is scheduled to begin at 11 a.m.
Favorites in the freshman duel are Furman and William and Mary. The Davidson frosh posted a 4-2 mark in the
background.

Booters Tackle State After Edging Pfeiffer

The Davidson College soccer team next Friday plays its last game of the season here with V.M.I. The Keydets played
Pfeiffer in September, losing 5-4. We have lost one to Pfeiffer and won one. Today the soccer team played freshmen.
Also held was the game movie showing Wednesday night. Between 400 and 500 students attended.

The Players Tell Their Own Story

Our highest praise goes to junior halfback Jerry Sheffield, who was named Tuesday as the Southern Conference Player of the
Week, but we could not help but mention the whole team for its superlative effort at Virginia Tech. For a
change, we'll let the players do their own talking. Here's how they saw the V.P.I. game:

DUNCAN MORTON: Beat Lehigh!
KENT TUCKER: The best feeling I've ever had after a ballgame. That guy Zeno is nothing short of terrific.
BUTCH SHUMAKER: Everybody played a hell of a ballgame and we won. It’s past history, on to Lehigh.
TOM SIMPSON: It feels wonderful to win again.
JERRY SHEFFIELD: It was a real pleasure, old stout.
DAVE LOVETTE: It was the greatest team effort I've seen since I've been at Davidson.
BOB McALLISTER: A tremendous team effort. Nothing fancy about our offense. We ran over them. As for our defense—terrific!
LEW ZIRKLE: We all worked together, doing a fine job on offense, while Frank Tulleck did an excellent job on
defense.

President Martin spoke before a rally of 200 students Saturday night which greeted the victorious Wildcats. The 'Cats were brought
back down to earth this week on the practice field by head mentor Bill Dole, who has been constantly warning
them of Lehigh’s abilities. Dole and his “giant killers” boarded a plane at noon today well aware of their task.

VOW MADE

Having tasted the delicious fruits of the victory tree, the players have vowed to Dole and themselves that they will
not let this feeling go without a fight. On the other hand, Coach William Leckonby has probably...I've cleaned the OCR
text while preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

I've been hearing a few promises from his Brown and White clad Engineers this week too.

LOSE LAST FOUR

The Engineers started the season off with a bang by downing Delaware, Colgate, and Gettysburg, but have slacked off in
their last four outings with losses to Tufts, Rutgers, Bucknell, and V.M.I., current leader of the Southern Conference. The loss
to V.M.I. came last weekend, and it is certain that Lehigh would like to get even with the Southern Conference,
and in addition keep up its winning ways against Davidson. A year ago, the Engineers came south for their first
encounter with the 'Cats, and managed to do something no other foe could—they shut the 'Cats out, 14-0.

SCOUTS GAME

Once again, the Wildcats face a bigger and stronger team. Assistant Coach Tom Stevens, who scouted the Engineers’ 18-14 loss
to V.M.I., described them as “a real tough team, with a big line averaging a little over 200 pounds.” Stevens
added, “V.M.I. got three quick touchdowns in the first half, but couldn't move the ball in the second half.” He
went on to point out that “Lehigh has a lot of power, and uses a great many roll-out passes.”

PERSONNEL

Some of Lehigh’s better personnel includes 245-lb. tackle Reed Bohovich, 225-lb. guard Richard Parsons, linebacker Charles Wentz, sophomore quarterback Walter
King, and Bill Jones, 190-lb. senior captain end. Coach Dole plans to take advantage of his speed against the slower
Engineers, and admits, “We might have to throw more this week.” His lineup changes send Bill Shumaker to defensive guard,
Bruce Usher to linebacker for the injured Carl Hunt, Lou Zirkle to offensive right end, and to offensive halfback Alex
Gibbs, who gained 83 yards last week.

Riflers Shoot Match With Richmond

The Davidson College ROTC rifle team is host to Richmond University tomorrow for a shoulder-to-shoulder match. First shot will be
fired at 1:30 p.m. on the indoor range in Belk Dorm. Davidson has shot one match, defeating Clemson here Oct.
28, 1378-1373. A Wofford match last Friday was cancelled because of scheduling difficulties.

BOBBY CORDLE: Team effort made a great win. Everybody had given up on us. We were the only ones who
thought we could win.

MIKE OWEN: We went with our minds. We worked together as before but did not make the fatal mistakes which
have cost us several games this year. School spirit has been great since then. Keep it up.

JOE ANSLEY: An enjoyable afternoon despite the rain!

BILL WHITTINGTON: It gave me the best feeling of pride in a Davidson team that I've ever had.

MICKIE SLAUGHTER: I am proud to be a member of this team.

WINN HALL: Lack of pressure made for a great morale victory.

BILL SALZER: The way we felt just can’t be put in words. It was really great. They were good, but
we ran over them all the way.

CARL HUNT: I thought they were real good, but I didn't play long enough to work out. (Hunt was injured).
It was terrific to be on the winning side. They say let the best man win, so I'm sure that
means we're the best.

BRUCE USHER: I have never played against a better team before. We had terrific teamwork. We wanted to win and
we did.

K. VOORHEES: The thrill of a football victory is shared by many. The win over VPI proves it.

JERRY SHEFFIELD: An extra bonus. The Southern Conference Sportswriters Association Tuesday named Davidson halfback Jerry Sheffield as its “Player of
the Week.” Sheffield, a junior, rushed for 59 yards Saturday at Virginia Tech. He punted eight times for an average
of 31.7 yards. One of the punts rolled dead on the Tech one-foot-line and another resulted in a safety and
two points for the Wildcats. On defense as well as offense, Sheffield picked off a Gobbler pass in the game’s
final moments to secure Davidson’s 9-7 victory.

BILL BANKHEAD: It’s always good to win but this one was the greatest!

Next Function

N. C. State at Raleigh. The Wolfpack has a lot of potential but hasn't won any games as of yet.
When asked what he thought about the game, Coach Marrotte explained, “This is a key game. A win at Raleigh
could make the season a real success.” Last week the Wildcats lost to a hard-playing Norfolk Navy team 1-0. The
Navy boys played a good progressive game, and in the fourth period, they got a good break, when Davidson was
penalized. With one minute to go, they got their only point on the penalty kick. After losing three games in
the last two minutes, the ‘Cats got a good break and with two minutes to go downed Pfeiffer 2-1 Monday.
Coach Marrotte said, “We dominated the third and much of the fourth quarter, and with the penalty kick we got
back into the win column.”

PLAYERS SHINE

Claude Finny played his usual good game, with John Stratton doing an outstanding job on defense. Next Thursday the soccer
team is playing a J. V. game with U.S.C. Coach Marrotte hopes to let a lot of boys play so
that they will get the needed experience for next year. This season, the team has relied on the running of
Tim Spiro, Charlie Rowe, and Steve Wood. Coach Whittle said, “I was well-pleased with our showing in the state meet
and throughout the entire season.”

I-F Wrestling Ends As Swimming Begins

Intramural swimming will be held Monday and Wednesday at 7 p.m. The tryouts are slated for Monday and the finals
will be held Wednesday. In Intramural wrestling Tuesday night, last year’s champs, the Phi Gams, jumped into the lead with
17 points. The SAE’s were second with 16 points and third with 12 points. Tied for fourth place were the
Kappa Sigs and the Betas with eight points apiece. Those who won Tuesday and who were eligible to compete tonight
are: 123-lb. class—Roles (SPE) vs. Fowler (SAE); Worthen (Pi Kapp) vs. Rush (Phi Gam). 130-lb. class—Thompson (SPE) vs. Nemir (Phi
Gam); Powell (Kappa Sig) vs. Lucas (SAE). 137-lb. class—Harrison (SAE) vs. Brown (Sigma Chi); Van Doeren (Beta) vs. Renner (Pika).
147-lb. class—Glasgow (Beta) vs. Engh (Phi Gam); Merritt (SAE) vs. Goven (Pi Kapp). 157-lb. class—Martin (Phi Gam) vs. Rhorer (SAE);
Mills (Beta) vs. Wray (Kappa Sig). 167-lb class—Stone (Kappa Sig) vs. Jorgensen (Pi Kapp); McNairy (SAE) vs. Jones (Phi Gam).
177-lb. class—Maddock (SPE) vs. Brewer (SAE); Ricks (Ind.) vs. Gramley (Pi Kapp). 191-lb. class—Cloninger (Phi Gam) vs. Metts (Pika); Day
(KA) vs. Reeves (Phi Delt). Heavyweight—Arnold (KA) vs. Smith (Phi Gam); Boyd (Pi Kapp) vs. Rude (SAE). Semifinals and finals
were held tonight starting at 7 p.m.

HOLE IN THE SOUP

Wade, Alaska bush pilot, from Cliff Lake Camp: “Man badly hurt—need doctor and nurse!” NOBODY COULD FLY IN THIS SOUP!
Let Us Freshen the Impression of All Your Clothes. Bring Your Dry Cleaning to Us So As To Be Ready
For the Next Function. JACKSON CLEANERS Main Street — Davidson 1318 W. Morehead In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous
Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN Charlotte, N. C. 450 S. MAIN — COLD BEER FOR SAT.
NIGHT MEALS COME TO STONESTREET'S CAFE STEAKS — CHOPS — SEA FOOD PRIVATE DINING ROOMS OPEN WEEK DAYS — 6
a.m. - 12 p.m MOORESVILLE

OOP! A HOLE IN THE SOUP! NO, GLACIER. NO, NOT AIR! HOLE IN THE SOUP! HE'LL BE OKAY, THANKS TO
YOU, YOU FLY WITH YOUR HEAD! GLACIER, NO. 4, NOW —DOWN A MAN WHO THINKS FOR HIMSELF! MUST BE WHY
YOU SMOKE THE RIGHT TASTE BECAUSE Viceroys got it...

---
