PAGE FOUR OF THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1960

D. Grier Martin pins the Superior Cadet Ribbon on Bob Croom, while other outstanding Cadets await their decoration at drill
last Tuesday.

ROTC Awards Given To Outstanding Cadets

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will have open house for the student body after vespers Sunday night:
Brown
Griffin
Harrotte
Currie
Kelton
McCutchan
Dagey
Lilly
Ratliff
Evans
Lloyd
Scott
Fleming
Lumsden
Staples
French
Watts

Trustees To Confer With Council, Court

The Board of Trustees will convene for their second meeting this year at 10 a.m. on Thursday, May 19. The
Executive Committee will meet the afternoon before for a preliminary session. At four p.m. on Thursday afternoon the Trustees will
meet the new members of the Student Council and Honor Court to get acquainted with them and to discuss issues.
This is part of the Trustees’ attempt to better familiarize themselves with life and education at Davidson. In this vein,
the Trustees will attend Honors classes at noon on Thursday. Following their business meeting the Trustees will eat lunch in
the Union. The Male Chorus will perform.

Dr. Reid To Speak At Vesper Service

The Vespers speaker Sunday will be Dr. John Calvin Reid. Dr. Reid obtained his A.B. degree from Erskine College, and
his B.D. from Pittsburgh Theological Seminary. He will present a talk concerning the happenings at the College since the Trustees’
last meeting.

Kuykendall Takes Alumni Office Post

John W. Kuykendall will arrive at Davidson next fall to assume the position of Assistant Director of Alumni and Public
Relations. Kuykendall graduated cum laude from Davidson last June and has since been studying at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond,
Virginia. While at Davidson, he served as second vice-president, then president of the student body and was listed in Who’s
Who in American Colleges and Universities. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, he was a Union Carbide Scholar at Davidson
and was awarded the Agnes Sentelle Brown Scholarship and a Rockefeller Brothers Fellowship for graduate study. He attained the rank
of cadet colonel in the ROTC and received the C. T. Stowe Memorial Scholarship.

Cadet First Col. Bob Croom was awarded his third consecutive Army Superior Cadet Ribbon last Tuesday during the annual ROTC
Awards Day. Croom had already won the award twice, after his sophomore and junior years, for outstanding performance of duty.
President Martin made the presentation. Cadet First Sergeant Jerry Cole was named most outstanding MS III cadet. Cole served as
Sergeant Major for the brigade first semester. Sophomore Frank Mansell, Jr., was designated as the top MS II cadet, and
Private Danny Carrell was awarded the freshman Superior Cadet ribbon. President Martin also presented their awards.

Cadet Col. Milton Gee was awarded the Third Army ROTC Certificate of Meritorious Leadership Achievement for continuous leadership development throughout
his ROTC career. Col. William L. Adams made the presentation. The top company commander medal went to Cadet Captain John
Glenn, commander of Company D, 2nd Battle Group. The William J. Martin, IV medal was awarded by Dr. A. V.
Goldiere. Prof. Henry E. Fulcher presented the Henry E. Fulcher, Jr. medal to Cadet Capt. Dee Green for “exemplary spirit
of service and outstanding contributions in the field of citizenship.” Cadet Lt. Richmond Rucker was presented the Davidson College Best
Platoon Leader Medal for outstanding performance as 2nd Platoon Leader, Mortar Battery, 1st Battle Group.

Fellowships

(Continued From Page One)

The C. T. Stowe Memorial Scholarship went to Scott Lacy, rising senior. This award is given to the football player
who shows greatest ability in scholarship, conduct, and general attitude. Eight Woodrow Wilson Fellowships were announced. These graduate scholarships went
to Larry Baggett, Leland Edmunds, Peter Sterling, Dabney Stuart, Frank Nye, Perrin Wright, W. E. Wilkinson, and James Batten. Wilkinson
graduated in 1958 and Batten in 1957. Also in Woodrow Wilson Fellowship competition, Honorable Mention went to Ed Spivey, Al
MacKay, Peter Kellogg, Frank Norris, and Robert Morrison. Rockefeller scholarships for graduate study have gone to Fred Morris and Tom
Ridenhour. Jim Richards was awarded a Rockefeller alternate. Teaching fellowships also went to Leland Edmunds, Perrin Wright, William Morrison, and
Frank Nye. National Defense Fellowships went to Frank Norris and Ed Spivey. Fellowships to Duke Law School were announced and
went to Ward McKeithen and Dan McAllister. Fellowships for study at the North Carolina University have been awarded to W.
K. Davis, Marvin Bentley, Jim Owens, Julian Pleasants, and Jim Williams. Assistantships for study in the field of physics went
to Dick Smith and S. K. Kim, who will study at Lehigh and Johns Hopkins, respectively. Emory University has awarded
a graduate assistantship to Chester Alexander, and Clemson College has awarded a graduate assistantship to Harry Powell. Bowman Gray Medical
School has awarded scholarships totaling more than $20,000 each to Dave McCullough and Fred Lane.

Kannapolis’ Leading Theatres

GEM
TODAY and SATURDAY
“Tall Story”
Anthony Perkins
Jane Fonda

STARTS SAT. NITE 8:30
“Platinum Highschool”
Mickey Rooney

SWANEE
TODAY and SATURDAY
“Atomic Submarine”
with Arthur Franz
— Also —
“Counterplot”
with Forrest Tucker

SAT. LATE SHOW
“The Tingler”
With Vincent Price

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Renew your subscription now so that you may receive all next year’s DAVIDSONIAN beginning with the first issue next September.
Don’t miss important campus news. Only $2.00

Name
Address
City

— I Enclose Two Dollars
— Bill Me Later

No, there’s no Greyhound Scenicruiser® Service to outer space—yet. But if you’re rocketing home for the holidays, there’s no better
way to go! It costs less than driving your own jalopy, too. With this exclusive Greyhound Service, you get more—pay
less. Get in orbit... go Greyhound.

THERE’S A GREYHOUND AGENT NEAR YOU

GO GREYHOUND (for out-of-this-world savings!)

BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They
arrive in hours and cost you less!

It’s such a comfort to take the bus... and leave the driving to us!

GREYHOUNDThe eighth presentation was meeting and also the present Xenia Theological Seminary made to Cadet First Sgt. Bill Rustin by
Col. Adams. Rustin will present a discussion of the findings of the curriculum committee and also will discuss changes in
the courses of study. The major business facing the trustees is the consideration and approval of a budget for the
1960-61 school year. Also, names and records of the proposed additions to the faculty will be presented for consideration and
possible approval.

Cadet First Sgt. Bill Rustin won the Association of the United States Army Medal for having contributed materially, through his
leadership as a cadet, to advancing the situation. Rustin, a scholar at Oxford under a scholarship award, returned to this
country and received his Master of Theology from Pittsburgh Xenia Seminary. He has also done post-graduate work at Presbyterian Seminary
in Louisville, Kentucky, where he received a Ph.D. in New Testament Greek. He obtained a D.D. from Muskingum College, New
Concord, Ohio.

Cadet Corporal Louis Burton was presented the Sons of the American Revolution Medal for his selection as top hand cadet.
Freshman Buddy Kemp was awarded the American Revolution Medal for MSI leadership. Prof. Goldiere presented the final award of the
afternoon to Cadet Corporal John Mitchell, who was selected as outstanding cadet in the Martin Honor Guard.

Tarkio College, Missouri, sent writings shall come, eternal greetings in the Lord. "We, the president and professors of Davidson College
in the state of North Carolina, by the authority committed to us, present (Name and Degree) in accordance with his
merits, and have presented this diploma, to exercise and rejoice in all the individual rights, privileges, and honors pertaining to
this degree throughout the whole world. In testimony of which, we have affixed our hands and the seal of this
college. (Date)." The diploma is signed by the President of the College and the President of the Trustees, and it
is attested by the Secretary of the Faculty, who acts as guardian of the college seal.

COMPARE THESE LOW, LOW FARES:
Richmond: $7.65
Atlanta: $8.45 plus tax

Originally from Charlotte, Dr. Reid has held pastorates in Butler and Columbus, Ohio. He is a former associate editor of
the "United Presbyterian" and also of "The Presbyterian Outlook." He is presently Vice-Moderator of the United Presbyterian Church in the
United States.

Henry E. Fulcher, Jr. Medal. He will succeed A. W. Franklin Bloodworth, who will enroll in the University of Georgia
Law School in September, after having served in the Alumni and Public Relations office since January 1 of this year.

Sigma Upsilon Conference Announces Awards
Dabney Stuart's poem, "On Cremation," was voted the most outstanding piece of writing at the Sigma Upsilon Writer’s Conference this
past weekend. Ervin Duggan was runner-up with a short story on "The Commissioner," and third place went to Rachel Cothran
of Converse for her "Greater Love." "I think the Conference was a tremendous success," commented Jere Starling. "We made the
first step toward establishing a national office of Sigma Upsilon which we hope to complete soon." Some thirty-five writers, from
Queens, Converse, and Pfeiffer, attended the Conference.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
Charlotte, N. C.

Salem research creates a revolutionary new cigarette paper that makes Salem taste more Springtime-fresh than ever! Richer, too. Smoke refreshed...smoke
Salem.

Plans Freshman Camp Site
Final arrangements for the first Freshman Camp are now being completed. Director Charles Ringe announced this week that the camp
will be held the 6th through the 8th of September for incoming freshmen. The conclave will be located at Camp
Stewart which is approximately seven miles east of Charlotte. On the 6th, selected freshmen will begin their discussion groups and
orientation under the basic theme of "Choices Among Values." The Camp is being formed on the basis of seventy-five freshmen
and approximately twenty upperclassmen. A brochure concerning the camp is being prepared and will be sent out around the first
of July to all incoming freshmen. The first seventy-five applicants will be accepted.

Financially, the camp will be self-supporting with each camper having to pay a fee of ten dollars. The fee is
to take care of the immediate costs and not to make a profit. Frank Mansell is the business manager for
the camp, which is sponsored by, and will be run under the auspices of, the Davidson College YMCA. The theme,
"Choices Among Values," will be presented to the freshmen in the form of lectures by upperclassmen, professors, and members of
the administration of the college. There will also be discussion groups.

Is it over, Ivy? Why, Coke is the most correct beverage you can possibly order on campus. Just look around
you. What are the college social leaders going for? Coca-Cola! So take a leaf out of their Ivy League book
and do the same! Enjoy the good taste of Coke! BE REALLY REFRESHED
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, N. C.
