PAGE FOUR

Prof. B. D. Thompson tells Davidson Claims Fifteen International Students

Fifteen students from twelve nations make up Davidson’s largest international group ever. They are this year’s Richardson exchange students. The Scandinavian countries have sent the largest delegation, with one student each from Norway and Denmark, and two from Sweden. Kristian Juel, of Kragero, is one of this year's Richardson Swedish students. His prizes included trips to France, Italy, and England. Two English students are studying here. Nicholas Cooper, from Bristol, has been admitted to Cambridge University for September 1961. Nicholas plays tennis, cricket, and hockey, and is interested in dramatics. Richard Dawids, 19, is preparing to enter Denmark's foreign service. His parents are familiar with this country, since his father was an engineer here for six years, and his mother was American born.

From Sweden come Anders Trydell and Stefan Leander. Anders has spent two summers in England and worked in a book bindery. He has completed his secondary education and will either enter the university or serve in the army upon his return to Sweden. Stefan has been a student at Chalmers Technical Academy in Sweden and was twice winner of general knowledge contests among 100,000 students. He plans to enter the university on his return for study in advanced physics.

From the Netherlands comes Herman Mensink. He will enter the University of Groningen in 1961 for a degree in chemistry. He has played hockey for his school and will study mathematics and chemistry here. Jehan Strating is also from Holland and has come to America to broaden his background in the field of physics. He intends to study nuclear physics at the University of Delft upon his return to the Netherlands.

Two South American students also hold Richardson scholarships. Norberto Kamm is from Argentina, an outstanding candidate from his city. His family is of German origin. Norberto has been attending the Oslo College of Business since August 1959.

From Colombia has come Luis Quintero, who has been studying electronics and teaching English for the past year. His father is an artist. From New Delhi, India, comes Ashok Kapoor. He is continuing study in literature here. A graduate of one of India’s top colleges, he has also been active in the Social Service League.

Coming from West Germany is Arnold Kroner, who has been studying political economy in Stuttgart. He is much interested in sports and was in competition for eligibility on the West German Olympic team in track and field. David Hopkins comes to Davidson from the Union of South Africa, though he was born in England. He graduated from Clifton College, as did Nicholas Cooper. He is a pre-medical student and was a cross-country runner and football player in preparatory school.

AFTER VESPER

Judge Jim Bootle and seven upperclassmen will compose this year’s Court of Control. Bill Shinn will serve as Recorder, while Seniors Tom Parker and Claude Finney, Juniors Clay Atkins and Cecil Holcomb, and Sophomores Joe Ansley and Jim Hendrix complete the membership of the Court.

“The spirit and work of the Court of Control are not to be taken lightly this year as has happened in the past,” Bootle commented this week when interviewed by the DAVIDSONIAN. “We are not functioning to amuse anyone, least of all the freshmen, who will find themselves in a rather unfortunate situation.”

“The Freshman Regulations were set up by the Student Council, and the Court recognizes a definite purpose underlying each of these. It should be noted also that the Court endorses the recent action of the Council designed to discourage freshman riots. Any freshman reported to have a part in instigating such a riot shall be prosecuted by due process of the law as we know it,” Bootle continued.

In explaining the operation of the Court, Judge Bootle said that there will be an official court summons on days of Student Assembly, at which time a violator will hear his charge read against him. The trial itself will be held at an appointed time thereafter and will not be open to members of the Student Body.

“Much of the actual (as opposed to the apparent) success of the Court of Control is directly proportional to the attitude and assistance of the upperclassmen,” Bootle added. “It is therefore requested that the names and charges of all observed offenders be reported without delay to any member of the Court.”

OPEN HOUSES

Professors will not hold open house for students this year.

Court Convenes Monday; For Freshmen Indictment

The Court of Control will be held for the first time this year during Student Assembly on Monday.

College Lets Contract For Fine Arts Building

The Barger Construction Company of Mooresville was the lowest of eight bidders as estimates were received on August 30, for the erection of the Fine Arts Building. Because of last-minute acoustical changes, however, the contract was not awarded that day. The architects have completed the changes and if the estimate on the changes is favorable, the contract is expected to be signed with Barger at the first of next week. Under the present plans, ground will be broken for the new building in the week of September 26. The contract provides for its completion by September 11, 1961. The anticipated cost is between $625,000 and $650,000.

Mr. R. A. Currie, college business manager, said, “We were very fortunate in that most of the contractors who bid wanted the job.” He stated that critical supplies were being lined up and that plans were being carried out on schedule.

Faculty, Trustees Retreat For Weekend Discussions

Assembly Inn at Montreat, North Carolina, was the site of the Faculty Trustee Retreat during the weekend of September 2-4. The principal speaker of the retreat was Dr. Joseph Drake, chairman of the committee of debating and dramatics. Plans for the coming year were discussed. Red and Black Masquers President George Johnson and Robert Sailstad will discuss the dramatics program.

Students to Gather For Debate, Drama

A meeting for all students interested in dramatics and debating will be held at 3:30 p.m. Monday in the union ballroom.

Bookstore Formally Opened

A College Union Committee headed by Tommy Covington has formally opened the new, but yet unnamed, student bookstore. The store, which occupies the old T.V. room in the Union, has on stock an inventory of books about six times the size of the inventory of the former student bookstore.

Last Monday, President Martin announced that $425,000 toward construction costs has been raised. This includes a gift of $100,000 from Mrs. Lillian Brown Hodson, which is to be used for equipping the theater and recital hall. The theater will be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities.

YMCA Announces Devotional Booklet

This year for the first time the YMCA is publishing a five-week individual devotional booklet especially for Davidson students. The booklet will be published within the next two weeks and will be available to students upon request.

Even though the Wildcat Handbook wasn't made available at the first of the school year as planned, the YMCA still plans to have it ready for distribution in about a month for student reference.

Two drives are planned for the next couple of weeks. First, there will be a campus-wide financial drive with the collecting going on in the dorms as in the past. There will also be a freshman interest drive conducted in the freshman dorms.

THE DAVIDSONIAN will hold an introductory meeting for all freshmen who are interested in working for the paper at 4 p.m. Monday in the Green Room of the College Union. The editor and managing editors will explain the various phases of newspaper work, and freshmen will be given a chance to express their job preferences. Several reporting assignments will be held open for those who would like to write next week. THE DAVIDSONIAN does not require newspaper writing experience of freshmen reporters, but merely the desire and ability to write.

Yearbook Pictures Will Begin Monday

Annual editor Charles Rose has announced the schedule for yearbook portraits to be taken next week in the College Union. The sittings will be from 1 to 8 p.m. Monday through Friday. Freshmen and sophomores will have their pictures taken first.known as the Hodson Theater in honor of Mrs. Hodson, who has also given the college money for the restoration of the literary halls and the organ in the college church. A scale model of the Hodson Theater will be on display in the Union in four or five weeks. The remaining funds are to be raised by a committee made up of trustees, alumni leaders, and some of the Board of Visitors. Co-chairmen of the committee are Mr. J. Spencer Love, a member of the Board of Trustees, and Mr. Edward H. Little, a member of the Board of Visitors.

Library Announces Organization Change

Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson announced a major change in the library’s organization this week and called attention to the appointment of a new staff member. Miss Carrie Lanier Brittain has replaced Mrs. Nancy Davis, who resigned last spring to accompany her husband to Florida. Miss Brittain comes from Davis and Elkins College in West Virginia. She holds a professional library degree from the University of North Carolina and a master's degree in English from the University of West Virginia. Dr. Davidson maintains that she is thus the best-qualified staff member that the library has ever employed in respect to reference assistance.

A new reserve book reading room has been set up in the old modern fiction reading room on the second floor. The revised reserve book system is experimental this year. The new system works as follows: Members of the faculty will designate reserve books as “open” or “closed” books. Open books may be taken from the shelves in the reading room without being checked out. However, the student must use the book in the reading room and is not allowed to take it to other parts of the library. Closed books must be checked out by the librarian on duty in the reserve book reading room. The student is also required to use these books in the same room. Dr. Davidson said, “The new system, and the structural changes that go along with it, are experimental. We hope that it will solve the problem of availability of reserve books.” He said that a major reason for the change is that in the past, students have kept reserve books out of circulation for an unreasonable length of time.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the secondary school bookstore in the basement. Wolfgang Maverhofer, Vienna, Austria, will earn his doctor’s degree from the University of Commerce in Vienna in 1963. He will study business and economics courses at Davidson. Ulrich Schnewlin was selected as the outstanding candidate from Zurich, Switzerland. He is interested in teaching and will do his university work in classical languages and philosophy.

Manager Covington stated that the program is not primarily a financial venture, but one that the Union and the faculty regard as of vital concern to the academic process. The stock is primarily made up of paperbacks which the faculty have requested and which are to be used in connection with their classroom work. As the program becomes better established, the store plans to stock additional works which can be requested by either the students or the faculty. The committee also plans to take some responsibility from the Bookshelf Committee and it will sponsor discussions of books and reviews by various faculty members. It also plans to make its facilities available to other campus organizations for the sale of books related to their program. To create interest in the store, a contest is being sponsored to select a name for the new store, and books are to be awarded as the prize. C. Shaw Smith requested that students and faculty show their interest from the very first, so that in the future even better service may be offered to the college.

Phil Arnold, program chairman of the Westminster Fellowship for this year, has announced a tentative schedule of programs for the beginning of this semester. The next meeting, which is set for September 23, will be a discussion of individual worship for the student. On September 25, the group will hold a joint meeting at Salem College with the Westminster group there. A series is planned for the middle of October with the central topic of “Implications of a Roman Catholic President.” These will be led by a Roman Catholic priest and a Protestant minister. The fellowship held an open meeting last Sunday to acquaint freshmen with the activities of the group.

233 Frosh Converge On Davidson Campus

Two hundred and fifty-three freshmen arrived at Davidson Thursday, September 8, for six days of intensive orientation before registering for their first round of college classes. This year’s freshmen enrollment is smaller than in four years, but the geographical distribution is wider, with 24 states and Washington, D.C. being represented. The overwhelming majority of freshmen come from the “solid South” and border states, but 19 come from outside this region. These nineteen represent a trend involving a steady increase in students from other regions of the United States. The freshmen class is better qualified academically than any other class in the school’s history. Eighty-six percent ranked in the upper quarter of their high school graduating class. The average College Board Scores in math aptitude was 598 and the average verbal score was 562. These scores compare to last year’s entering class which had a math average score of 477 and a verbal score of 539. The average score in each division among all students who take these aptitude tests is 500.

Young, Gaines (Continued From Page One)

The program for the camp consisted of practical applications of theory learned in class. The cadets participated in such things as tactical problems, map reading, and firing of weapons. The cadets witnessed demonstrations of the arms and services of the Army, helicopter flights, and airborne jumps. Some of them fired the new M-14 rifle, and others jumped from parachute jump towers. Major Fleming expressed his satisfaction with the performance of Davidson’s cadets. He said, “There was not a single boy from Davidson not doing his very best. In my opinion, this class exceeded the excellence of last year’s at summer camp.” He spoke of the large number to receive the DMS award as “a real feather in this school’s cap.”

WHEN YOU NEED TO FRESHEN THE IMPRESSION COME—TO US FOR QUICK SERVICE

Special Crew Cuts and Flattops
Hood Norton and Son Barber Shop

McKessicks Shoe Shop
We Repair Shoes Expertly

COME DOWN! JACKSON CLEANERS
1318 W. Morehead Street