TRACKSTERS TRY FOR LOOP VICTORY (See Page Three)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

McGOVOCK CORRECTS FRENCH’S STATISTICS (See Page Two)

VOL. XLVI

Council Reverses Position, Gives Court New Power
By FRANK STAFFORD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Student Council voted six to four Monday night to give the Court of Control power to campus a freshman for one weekend, and to give the court the power to decide how the freshman chapels should be conducted. This was a reversal of the Council's previous decision to deny the Court this right. This motion was passed after lengthy discussion, during which Court of Control Judge Jim Bootle gave his reasons for wanting these changes.

Bootle stated that he felt that giving the Court of Control power to campus a freshman was good because it would give the Court some authority to back up its threats. “I don’t want to operate on a bluff,” he said. Bootle was emphatic in saying that this power to campus would be used “with a good deal of discretion.” He said that it would only be used in cases of extreme cockiness and complete and open rebellion against the rules set up by the Court of Control.

Vandalism Slows Dorm Construction

Vandalism is hindering progress on the New Dormitory. Mrs. J. B. Moore, Supervisor of the Dormitories, reported that a number of windows have been broken out. One of the workers also observed some students throwing rocks at the windows on their way to lunch. “It seems to me,” commented Mrs. Moore, “that that sort of behavior is beneath Davidson students.” She went on to say that the only previous case of vandalism had been caused by teenagers from town. Otherwise, everything is proceeding on schedule. Plans to landscape the grounds around the dormitory are being developed, although there is some debate about whether or not to tear down a little brick house which was the original president’s home. At present, workers are painting inside the building, and the lounge furniture is being selected. Pictures for the lounge were chosen from the Fine Arts Festival display in the Union ballroom.

This Court of Control, campusing, since it is backed up by the Student Council, is an official campusing. Therefore, if a freshman broke this, he would be subject to red book rules of discipline governing breaking campus. The second part of the motion was to allow the Court of Control to conduct freshman chapels as it wished. Bootle indicated that only the freshmen who had already been convicted of violations would be called up in front of chapel. They would be tried the night before the Friday chapel. Bootle felt that doing away with calling freshmen up in chapel, as it was previously planned, might tend to cause the upperclassmen to lose interest in the system for lack of contact with it. Bootle expressed the hope that these chapels could be conducted in a courtroom atmosphere, without jeering and laughing at the offending freshmen. He said that the Court would need the support and cooperation of the upperclassmen in this matter. He said, “Our ultimate goal is to emphasize the constructive aspect and not let the Court degenerate into entertainment for upperclassmen.” He said that the part outside of chapel (i.e., the Thursday night trials) would stress counseling, but chapels would be conducted in the atmosphere of a Court of Control.

At the same Student Council meeting, a petition signed by some 65 members of the student body was presented. This petition proposed an amendment to the Constitution to the effect that the Court of Control would be replaced by a Freshman Advisory Board. Dave Dillard, who presented the petition, said that it was signed by people who believe that a “rat court cannot be constructive by its very definition.” He said, “This amendment is representative of a body of opinion which holds that a rat court is not the best way to introduce a freshman to Davidson.” The proposed Advisory Board would be composed of 20 upperclassmen appointed by the freshman advisor. These 20 men would also serve as orientation group leaders. As the amendment reads, the primary purpose of the board is to “give mature counsel to any freshman who requests it and to take the initiative in counseling all freshmen on an informal basis.” Another function of the Board would be to administer freshman regulations. This amendment was read by Student Body President Henry Shue in last Tuesday’s chapel and will be voted upon by the student body on Friday, May 20. If this amendment is passed by the necessary 2/3 majority, the Student Council’s decision will be nullified and the Court of Control will be replaced by an Advisory Board set up by Freshman Advisor Pete Wyrick.

Center Plans In Intermediate Stage

Architectural details are all that remain in the way of a contract for the John R. Cunningham Fine Arts Building. R. J. Sailstad, Assistant to the President, announced this week that the college hopes to begin construction about July 1. Plans are now in an “in-between” stage, according to Sailstad. “The architects have taken over now. There are a lot of technical problems in a building such as this which still need to be worked out.”

Student Body Will Vote On Summer Honor Court

On Tuesday, May 17, the Student Body will vote on a motion setting up a Summer Honor Court. This motion calls for a court made up of nine members, two of whom will be the Chairman and the recorder. According to the motion, the Summer Honor Court and its officers are to be appointed by the President of the Student Body and the Chairman of the Honor Court one week before the end of the regular session. Student Body President Henry Shue stated that it has been the practice for a number of years for the President of the Student Body to appoint the summer school Student Council at the end of the year. Now that the Honor Court has taken over all student judicial functions from the Student Council, provisions need to be made in the Constitution to cover a Summer Honor Court. “We think that putting this section in the Constitution would safeguard the boys on the court in case of any appeals or accusations of slander resulting from a trial,” Shue added. The proposed amendment gives the Summer Honor Court jurisdiction and responsibility for the investigation and trial of all reports of violations of the Honor System or the Student Body Regulations during each session of Summer School. The amendment makes provisions for the Summer Honor Court to follow the trial procedure outlined in the constitutional amendment concerning the regular Honor Court, and it gives any student involved in a decision of the Summer Honor Court the right to appeal that decision to the faculty. “This amendment was proposed at the request of some boys who were on last year’s Honor Court and Student Council and felt a little shaky about it,” Shue added. “Members will be chosen from those members of the Honor Court and Student Council who will be at Summer School here all summer. When we run out of these we'll pick full-time Davidson students. There will not be any outsiders on the Summer Honor Court, only students enrolled here during the regular school year.” “The reason for letting only the President of the Student Body and the Honor Court Judge choose the members of the Summer Honor Court is merely a question of time. We would have to wait until the end of May to find out who's going to be at summer school anyway.”

Rick Aderhold and Robert L. Moorehave been elected to the Honor Court to fill the two positions recently vacated by juniors. The Court is made up of twelve students — six seniors, four juniors, and two sophomores.

UNC CONSULTANT
As a consultant on the building, the architects have hired Tom Rezzuto of the University of North Carolina. Rezzuto is on the staff of the Playmakers Theater and is assisting acoustical engineers in planning and equipping the stage and other parts of the building. Sailstad repeated the statement that the fine arts center would be finished by the fall of 1961.

Graham Allison, rising junior, received the award for outstanding work in the field of chemistry. Tom Squires, rising senior, received the Chemstrand Corporation Scholarship carrying a stipend of $500, and Hugh Barger, rising senior, won the David H. Howard Award carrying a $250 stipend. Also in chemistry, seven graduate fellowships and teaching assistantships were announced for senior chemistry majors.

In the fields of economics and business administration, R. L. Cook won the A. K. Pfeiffer Scholarship, and Jerome Herring won the Wall Street Journal award. Tom Patrick and Eric Stone shared the James Wilkinson Jervey, Jr. Award, given annually to the rising junior who excels in Spanish. Paul Duvall won the Freshman Achievement Award in the field of physics for outstanding academic work.

The Tommy Peters Memorial Trophy, given annually to the “student who best exemplifies the Davidson spirit in intercollegiate athletic competition,” went to Dave Warden.

FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1960 NUMBER TWENTY-EIGHT

FC Contracts Four Freshmen To Kick Off New Concert Series
Vocalists Will Appear In November Program
By BOB MOORE
Davidsonian Associate Editor

The Interfraternity Council voted at its Monday night meeting to contract the Four Freshmen for the first of the IFC Concert Series for next year. The Four Freshmen will appear at 8:00 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium on Saturday, November 19, following the Davidson-Furman football game. The Four Freshmen were at Davidson during the 1959 Mid-Winters dance weekend where they made two appearances at the Saturday night dance.

PROVIDE ENTERTAINMENT
Their method of presentation is unique, in that they provide their own instrumental accompaniment. Collectively, the Freshmen play trombone, bass, guitar, drums, and trumpet. In a DAVIDSONIAN interview on Wednesday, IFC president Jerry Cole said, “The purpose of the Concert Series is to provide additional entertainment that will appeal to the majority of the students. The Four Freshmen have proved in the past to be very popular at Davidson as well as at other colleges in the surrounding area. The council feels they will be an excellent attraction to start off the series.”

In addition to the Four Freshmen concert, the Interfraternity Council tentatively plans to have two concerts, or one lecture and one concert, later in the school year. The council hopes to have one concert or lecture at the end of Greek Week and another concert in the Spring when most of the fraternities are having their spring functions.

FRATERNITY SUPPORT
This year, all the fraternities voted to give financial support to the Concert Series by having the Interfraternity Council assess each of its members. The purpose of the assessment is to give the council a working fund so as to be able to contract popular entertainment units. All fraternity members will be admitted free. The independents will be able to purchase tickets from the IFC.

Pete Wyrick, Adviser for the Class of 1964, announced this week that anyone interested in becoming a freshman counselor next year should see him as soon as possible. He rooms in Martin’s Manor.

Diploma: Beaty Unveils Its Latin Secrets
By KNOX ABERNETHY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“I wouldn't want to guess how many Davidson graduates can't read their diplomas,” smiled Dr. E. A. Beaty, professor of Latin and Secretary of the Faculty. “But a good many of them write in and ask me for a translation.” Dr. Beaty went on to point out that Davidson is one of the few colleges that has retained the Latin diploma. In fact, it is almost unique, since the diploma is so thoroughly classical that even the Latin system of dating is used.

Money for about one-half the building’s $600,000 cost has been raised. The remainder will come, according to Sailstad, from those wishing to honor Dr. Cunningham, and others interested in meeting a serious need in Davidson's program.

UNIQUE RELATION
Now that the plans are nearing completion, Sailstad has made known some of the assumptions behind the plan’s provisions. Said Sailstad: “The new building will be uniquely related to fine arts in a men's liberal arts college.” The facilities will give each student the opportunity “to balance his other studies with experiences that will develop art appreciations.” A study was made before planning for the new building began. The Arts at Davidson reported that one of the college’s goals must be to “encourage participation and the avocational use of arts and crafts by the non-professional.” “We feel that the new facilities will make fine arts an important part of every student's education,” said Sailstad.

Smith, Duggan Cop Observer Awards
Dick Smith and Ervin Duggan both won first places in the first annual Charlotte Observer contest recognizing outstanding work on the various North Carolina college newspapers. Davidson was the only school to cop two first place awards.

Dick Smith, former editor of the Davidsonian, took first in editorial writing with his recent editorial “Education Too Valuable To Ignore.” Ervin Duggan, Associate Editor, took first place in the feature division with his Mid-Winters feature “Winter Wonderland Is Education for Alice.” Bill Godwin, Davidsonian Sports Editor, received an honorable mention in sports reporting. The five divisions of the contest were feature, news, editorial, sports, and newspaper make-up.

“An interesting thing,” commented Dr. Beaty, “is that someone will write in and say that we got the wrong date on his diploma.” Actually, the trouble is that this liberally educated gentleman can’t read Latin. Dr. Beaty observed that very few institutions use Latin for their diplomas or official correspondence. However, he said that Columbia Seminary, where Dr. Beaty studied, sent its greetings to President Martin's inauguration in Latin. He laughed at the fact that they sent him a translation “for convenience.” He stated, “It was very well done, but I think there were a couple of places where changes in the Latin might be advantageous.”

Turning to the Davidson diploma, Dr. Beaty pointed out that it is written in elegantly simple Latin and is not as ornate or verbose as some diplomas. Dr. Beaty would like to add to the diploma a clause which would attest to the character of the recipient. At present, he claims, there is no statement about what sort of a young man he is. The only statement of this sort in the present diploma is that the degree is given pro meritis eius — in accordance with his merits. But Dr. Beaty pointed out that one can deserve either reward or punishment. As an example, he said, “He got his head chopped off — pro merito — as he deserved.” There are also certain legal complications which could be avoided by inserting a character clause, he added.

Incidentally, for those unclassical seniors who won't be able to read their diplomas, here is a translation: “To all to whom these presents shall come, greetings in the Lord. Be it known that (name) has completed the course of study prescribed by the Faculty and has been found worthy of the degree of (degree) with all the rights, privileges, and honors thereunto appertaining. In witness whereof, the seal of the College and the signatures of the President and the Secretary of the Faculty are hereunto affixed. Given at Davidson, North Carolina, this (day) of (month), (year).”

Dr. E. A. Beaty examines the College Diploma, a fine example of Classical Latin. Davidson’s is one of the few Latin diplomas in the country.