Issue No. 9

WELCOME TO SYNOD YOUTH

Again we have people from the outside on the campus, so let the summer inmates of Davidson extend a welcome
to those who are on campus for the Synodical Youth Conference.

They will be with us until Saturday, and it is our privilege to be their hosts for the week. There
will be many more opportunities for us to be of service to this group than there were last week, and
we hope that each student will take advantage of these opportunities.

BRIDGE TOURNEY REGISTRATION

To this date, four tables are signed up for the bridge tourney. Registration is still open, and will remain open
until 11:00 PM Thursday at the Union Desk.

The tourney is open to all comers, and the Tourney Committee will especially welcome registrations from members of the faculty.
Also, to those who do not feel that their bridge is quite up to the par demanded by a championship
tourney of this sort, the committee extends an invitation to participate as kibitzers. No registration is demanded of kibitzers, and
the requirements of kibitzmanship are listed elsewhere in this issue.

The tourney will start at 7:00 PM on Friday night, and will continue until all teams have played sixteen hands.
Registrants are also reminded that no master points will be awarded in this tourney.

June 27, 1961

Ed: G.P. Nowlin

PROPER KIBITZMANSHIP

Kibitzmanship requires the same amount of good sportsmanship and finesse as the actual play of tourney bridge. For the information
of prospective kibitzers, the editor lists here some rules that are "in" for well-to-do kibitzers.

1) A proper kibitzer chooses his favorite team and sticks with it until the final play.

2) Three subdued claps are the proper acclaim when your team trumps an opponent's ace and a subdued hiss is
proper when the ace turns out to be not the opponent's, but rather an out-of-turn lead by your favorite.

3) If the kibitzer finds himself hissing more than two times per rubber, he may then set aside rule number
one and find a team that is better suited to cheerful kibitzing.

4) It is a Union house rule that no kibitzers will be allowed on the floor while carrying mirrors or
concealed radio transmitters.

MIDWEEK BREAK

We are pleased to announce that the members of the Young People's Conference will share our break activities this week.
It will indeed be a privilege to share our cokes and doughnuts with this group.

Also, this week, the Break will go on in spite of sleet or rain as it will be held in
the Union Ballroom.

MOVIE

The movie this week will be the screen adaptation of James Hilton's famous LOST HORIZON, starring Ronald Colman.

The chairman of the Films Committee has announced that the movie will be held only on Friday night this week
due to a lack of funds.
