THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1961

A LOOK AT... SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

Polecats, Tomcats, Wildcats

IT’S PLAIN we've gotten more than we bargained for in a basketball coach. Another feature of the many-sided Mister Driesell
leaked out this week. He's superstitious. And aren’t we all? Before every game he digs deep into his pocket, pulls
out a tiny black plastic tomcat and rubs it vigorously between his hands for good luck. The little black charm—Davidson’s
answer to the space monkey—he calls Mo-Jo.

ONCE, WHEN the Wildcats were on the road, Driesell splurged and bought Mo-Jos for each of his starting five. Another
time, at home, Mo-Jo was missing and Driesell sent out an all-alarms to his house to get him. This is
a far cry from last season, when Tom Scott gave his players the somewhat dubious title of Polecats and let
it go at that.

Ballot Time In The Conference

BALLOTS ARRIVED in the mail Wednesday for the 1961 All-Southern Conference basketball team. Davidson's Joe Markee has an excellent chance
to make the second team. Bill Jarman is given an outside shot at the squad. They rank one-two in almost
every category: Markee, 298 points, 16.5 average and 168 rebounds; Jarman, 290 points, 16.1 average and 163 rebounds.

DRIESELL CALLS Markee “the most improved ballplayer on the squad. He’s improved more from the first of the season than
any other boy I’ve ever coached. If the Southern Conference had an All-Sophomore team, Jarman would surely be on it.”

SPORTS BUFFS are calling Markee and Jarman the ‘Comeback Twins.’ After losing seven of their first eight games, the Wildcats
have worked around to an 8-10 record. The two players have been neck-and-neck in the process. For instance, against VMI,
each had 24 points and 16 rebounds.

WITH THE All-Conference ballot sheet came a short note that ended: “... See you in Richmond, March 2-4 (I hope).”
And it looks as if Davidson will be in the conference tourney. The ‘Cats are eighth in the loop standings
following a decisive 88-79 victory over VMI and the ninth team won't participate at Richmond. George Washington is seventh (2-5),
Davidson (2-6) and VMI (2-9). You can view the tournament at a cost of nine bucks.

Lammers And Lamentations

PLAYING THE faithful alumnus to the hilt, Bill Lammers, Davidson biology professor, limped down to the gym last Friday night
(snow and ice irritate his war injury) to take in the Davidson-Emory wrestling match. Lammers was a matman in his
own right at Emory. The only hitch Friday night was that the match was held in the afternoon. And, to
top that off, Emory was smashed, 24-7. Lammers said he had checked the match time in the weekly campus bulletin.
He should have checked THE DAVIDSONIAN—we had the ’Cats playing at Emory.

FOOTBALL COACH Bill Dole already has five names on the dotted line for next fall. Three are linemen, which he
most needs.

IF YOU want to see some good golfing for an equally good cause, try the Clayton Heafner Memorial Heart Fund
Match at the Myers Park Country Club in Charlotte a week from Sunday. The big names include professionals Julius Boros
and Mike Souchak and amateurs Billy Joe Patton, Walker Cup Player, and Charlie Smith, 1960 North-South Champion and 1961 Southern
Amateur Champion. You can get tickets for $2.00 each from Lake Byers at Tate-Brown’s, Verner Stanley or myself.

SIGNOFF: A UNC basketball cheerleader takes Duke’s Art Heyman to court for alleged assault during the Duke-UNC game. While I'm
not condoning a court battle, it is noteworthy that other colleges have cheerleaders.

Tomcats And Wildcats

Tom Cliff Thompson is a unique wrestler. He showed little promise as a sophomore. Now he stands as Coach Charlie
Parker's only senior grappler—and team captain to boot. And finally, he has competed in three different weight-classes.

If anyone can unseat him at the tournament next month, it is Thompson. At this stage, the 6-1, 180-pounder from
S.C., stands as the Southern Conference 177 champ from West Virginia.

Fans who remember ‘Cat upset wins over Wake Forest and William and Mary in Johnston Gym know that it can
happen again.

Davidson continued its current winning streak this week, trouncing VMI, 88-79, and making it two in a row over Pfeiffer,
79-72, last night in Misenheimer. Bill Jarman topped Wildcat scoring with 23 points, raising his scoring average to 16.1. Joe
Markee maintained a slight lead over his teammate (298-290) with a 16.5 average as he scored 12. Jerry Bussell had
14.

Davidson raised its record to 8-10, while handing Pfeiffer its 18th loss in 21 games. Both teams were dull through
the first half. The Wildcats led 32-30 at halftime. The ‘Comeback Twins’ Markee and Bill Jarman paced the locals with
identical totals of 24 points and 16 rebounds.

Davidson avenged an earlier defeat by VMI (72-68 in Lexington) by running up 88 points, 10 more than its previous
high of 78 against Richmond. Junior Norm Halberstadt of VMI topped both teams with 27 points. Bill Shinn had 13
and Jerry Bussell 12 for the Wildcats.

The victory reversed the order of Davidson and VMI in the conference standings. The ‘Cats jumped out of the ninth
spot with a 2-6 mark, putting the Keydets, with a 2-9 record, in their place.

College Releases Spring Schedules

Coach Roger Thrift shifts Davidson speedsters into high gear training this week. Tracksters are sprinting in the halls of Chambers,
while Dr. George Staples prepares for the upcoming Big Five meet and the Southern Conference meet at Lexington, Feb. 25.

Spring Drills Set; Play Three Loop Games Next Week

Feel Sassy With 4 Straight Wins

Tankers Take Two Of Three Georgia Meets

Lefty Begs Full House

Cats Claim Victories Over Georgia, Emory

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“All of them did a tremendous job,” Coach Dwight Shoe commented about his tired swimmers, after they had returned from
a three-day trek into Georgia. The Catfish had one of the busiest weeks in the history of Davidson athletic teams
this week, as they swam the University of Georgia, Georgia Tech, and Emory University, respectively, on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday.

The VPI game here next Thursday comes between road games with Richmond Tuesday and Furman Saturday.

“I hope every student is out here for the Tech game,” Davidson Coach Lefty Driesell said this week, lamenting total
attendance of 1700 at the last three games. “They had the gym filled by six o'clock the last time we
played them.”

SMASH EMORY

Against Tech, diving sensation Bill Whittington broke the17, and it will be the last time the game didn’t start at
7:30. The old school record of 178 points saw the Catfish perform at home with a 192-point performance.

The Gobblers will parade a foursome of high scorers: Chris Smith, with a 20-plus average, Bob Ayersman, Dean Blake, and
Bucky Keller. Tech ranks 11th in the nation in total offense.

By JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Wildcat matmen head north next week for matches in Virginia with VPI and VMI. Captain Tom Hudgin, LeDoyen, and
Charlie Trask all managed 3-0 decisions in their bouts. Ben McCoy captured an impressive 5-0 victory, while team captain Cliff
Thompson wrestled to a 2-2 draw and Tom Wright won by forfeit. Ken Barber met the lone 'Cat defeat.

The Wildkittens go against VPI and Furman next week in games immediately preceding the varsity clashes. After five straight wins,
the freshmen were defeated last night, 67-63, by Pfeiffer. They defeated Pfeiffer the first time last Saturday, 72-59, and took
Presbyterian Junior College by a large margin.

The locals needed a victory in the free-style relay in order to take the meet. But the Yellow Jackets needed
that event for the tournament, and they should schedule for spring sports.

This year’s baseball schedule is as follows: March 15, Catawba, there; March 18, Catawba, here; March 21, Pfeiffer, here (double
header); March 24, Hampton Sidney, here; March 29, West Virginia, here; April 3, Georgia Southern, there (double header); April 4,
University of Kentucky, there; April 5, Mercer, there; April 10, William and Mary, here; April 17, Georgia Southern, here; April
18, Georgia Southern, here; April 20, VPI, here; April 25, Belmont Abbey, there; April 26, Mercer, here; April 29, VMI,
there; May 2, Citadel, here (double header); May 6, Richmond, there; May 8, George Washington, there; and May 11, Wake
Forest, here.

Davidson today released its football schedule for spring sports. The football Wildcats play an intra-squad game in less than a
month as they start preparations. Spring drills have been tentatively set by Coach Bill Dole for March 6 to April
15. Davidson opens the season in Charlotte against the Catawba Indians on Sept. 16. Then follow five Southern Conference tilts—one
more than last year—and Little Three games with Wofford and Presbyterian. The Wildcats will be 24 strong in returning lettermen
to try to better their 3-5 record in 1960.

The schedule:
Sept. 16 Catawba - Charlotte
Sept. 23 Furman - Greenville
Sept. 30 Citadel - Charleston
Oct. 7 Open Date
Oct. 14 Presbyterian - Davidson
Oct. 21 Va. Military - Davidson
Oct. 28 Richmond - Richmond
Nov. 4 Wm and Mary - Wms’burg
Nov. 11 Wofford - Davidson

The Davidson tennis schedule is as follows: March 27, the Citadel, there; March 30, Michigan State, here; March 31, Furman,
there; April 8, the Citadel, here; April 10, Duke, there; April 11, UNC, there; April 12, NC State, there; April
17, UNC, here; April 21, Cincinnati, here; and May 4, 5, and 6 will be the Southern Conference Tournament.

The Davidson Track Team has seven meets scheduled and they are: March 22, Catawba, here; April 8, Wake Forest, there;
April 12, Furman, there; April 15, Furman Relays, there; April 20, Richmond, here; April 25, VPI, here; April 29, Davidson
Relays; and May 12 and 13, the Southern Conference Meet.

The 'Cats are plagued by scattered injuries. Avery Burns (220 and 440) is hobbling on a sprained ankle. Dave Gilmore
(mile runner) is out of action this year as a result of a skiing accident. Sterling Martin, of cross-country fame,
is sitting out the season.

BOB MOORE, injured center, is caught in a trick shot by Photographer Gene Wells.

A MESSAGE FROM UNIVERSITY SHOP

SEE THE CLAYTON HEAFNER MEMORIAL HEART FUND

Featuring Professionals: Mike Souchak, Julius Boros, and others
Amateurs: Billy Joe Patton, Charlie Smith, and others

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1:00 p.m.
MYERS PARK COUNTRY CLUB
Tickets: $2.00 each. On sale at Tate-Brown’s 3rd Floor University Shop
Order Tickets from Verner Stanley, Bill Godwin

This is grand entertainment for a worthy cause. Take your girl and have fun.

LOOK YOUR BEST, YOU DO YOUR BEST!
