PAGE FOUR

A RETIRING PROFESSOR

G. B. WATTS is justly proud of the Davidson Library’s copy of the rare 27-volume DESCRIPTION OF ARTS AND TRADES, an 18th-century French encyclopedia. Watts, who will retire this year, plans to live in Davidson, spending his summers at Cape Cod.

Dr. Watts’ ‘Retirement’ Should Keep Him Busy

This year marks Dr. George B. Watts’ 34th and final year of teaching at Davidson. At the end of this semester, the college, in accordance with its policy, is retiring him at the age of 70. When asked how he felt about his retirement, Dr. Watts said, "No sweat at all. It's a rule, and there’s no reason why it shouldn’t be kept."

WON’T BE IDLE

The greatest regret he expressed was, “I shall miss the companionship of Davidson students, whom I have found courteous, responsive, and intelligent.” But Dr. Watts will not be idle. “I will be kept fairly busy as secretary-treasurer of the American Association of Teachers of French, which now has about 7300 members," he said. “I also plan to do a great deal more writing.”

WRITING CONTRACTS

“I have a contract with the Modern Language Association of America to write for publication a history of the teaching of French in the U.S.," he continued, “and I have a resident fellowship at Newberry Library in Chicago for writing the life of Pierres, the ‘first royal printer’ and a friend and printer for Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin.”

“Besides the contracts,” he added, “there is a great deal of material on late 18th-century French publications I have been working on for years. I hope to put this into shape for publication.”

Dr. Watts came to Davidson as an associate professor of French in 1926. He had received an A.B., magna cum laude, from Dartmouth in 1913, an M.A. from Harvard in 1915, and a Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota in 1926. He had also studied at the University of Berlin in 1913-14, and at the University of Montpellier in 1919, and had held three other teaching positions before coming to Davidson.

LEGION OF HONOR

During World War I, Watts served in the U.S. Army as a private in the infantry and as a sergeant in the Intelligence Corps. He was decorated Officer d’Academie and Chevalier de la Legion d’Honneur by the French government.

He is a member of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association, of which he was president in 1949-50; the N.C. Modern Language Association, president, 1937; and the American Association of Teachers of French, of which he was N.C. president in 1937 and of which he has been national secretary since 1942.

Watts is the author of Waldenses in the New World and numerous essays and articles concerning mostly 18th-century French literature, with emphasis on Voltaire and Diderot’s Encyclopedie.

DISCOVERED BOOKS

Dr. Watts was instrumental in finding and preserving Davidson's copy of Denis Diderot’s French Encyclopedia. According to Watts, this set is one of only two copies of the original edition in the United States.

Watts and his wife plan to keep their residence in Davidson, spending their summers at their home at Cape Cod. “We also hope to travel,” Watts said. “If everything works out as planned, we will go back to France for research and travel a year from next spring,” he concluded. “No sweat at all.”

BY ED RUDERT
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Alumnus Gives Library Shakespeare Volumes

By TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Sixteen volumes containing the works of William Shakespeare and the original novels and tales on which the plays are founded have the smell and dust of the very old as they lie on the shelf in the cage of the library. The volumes are very large; their total weight is almost 200 pounds. Only an expert on rare books could tell that these musty, old volumes are valued for the monetary sum of between four and five thousand dollars.

Dr. C. G. Davidson, director of the library, believes that the set is “the most valuable single acquisition since the library acquired the French Encyclopedie back before 1860.” The complete set of the first edition of the Holliwell-Philips Works of Shakespeare will make an important addition to the collection of books that will go into the proposed Treasure Room of the library. The set was published in London in the mid-1800s and is very rare.

Davidson College can thank an alumnus, Dr. Charles B. Sanders of the Class of 1922, for these books. Dr. Sanders said he first became acquainted with the set several years ago and at that time determined to give it to the college that had done so much for him, if he ever got the chance. In giving the books, Dr. Sanders is also paying tribute to the memory of three women who encouraged and aided him in his pursuit of a medical career. (Dr. Sanders is now a successful medical doctor who directs the Sanders Diagnostic Laboratory in Houston, Texas.) He donates them in honor of his mother, Ida Wolkarte Sanders; Miss Gertrude Chapman; and Mrs. Miriam Stark.

Spring Blood Drive Is April 24-25

The year's second blood drive will be held in Richardson Gymnasium Monday and Tuesday, April 24-25. The ROTC Department is sponsoring the drive in cooperation with the Interfraternity Council. Free drill cuts will be given to all ROTC students donating blood. They will be excused from drill on April 25. Free cuts in physical education will also be granted as in the past.

“Last fall, we got 305 pints and we will be trying to better that number,” said Capt. David Hampton. “We are being assisted by the ladies of the community under the leadership of Mrs. W. B. Mayhew. Parental release slips for any donor under 21 may either be turned in to the ROTC Department or brought to the gym on blood day. The IFC will present a trophy to the fraternity with the best percentage of donors. Beta Theta Pi won the trophy last fall.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vagabonds Restage Three Award Plays

Tonight the Vagabonds presented the first of the three plays that qualified for The Carolina Dramatic Association's 38th Annual Festival. “The Lottery," “Dark Lady of the Sonnets," and “Second Shepherd's Play” are the entries in the three-day festival which is being held at Playmaker’s Theater in Chapel Hill, N.C.

“The Lottery,” a haunting tale of social injustice, was directed by Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz and stars Pat O'Neal, Dick Forrester, Prof. Pat Elliott, and Mrs. Grace Lilly. It was adapted from the short story of the same name by Shirley Jackson.

“Dark Lady of the Sonnets,” directed by Mrs. Lilly, and “Second Shepherd's Play,” directed by Dr. Goodykoontz, will be presented tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. respectively.

The “Dark Lady of the Sonnets” is a comedy on Shakespeare by George Bernard Shaw and stars Hansford Epes, Mrs. Jane French, and Mrs. Ann Maloney. The “Second Shepherd's Play” is a 500-year-old Christmas farce and stars Prof. Ernest Patterson, Bob Sargent, Don Stowell, Woody Danenhower, and Mrs. Marjorie Murphy.

These plays will compete with plays from twelve other colleges and high schools in North and South Carolina for a Distinguished, Excellent, or Creditable rating.

C. Shaw Smith was the general producer and Dr. Goodykoontz the general director for the plays. Buddy Brauch was in charge of lights; Prof. Pat Elliott, staging and sets; Grover Meetze, moving and storage; and Hansford Epes, Neal Bushoven, and Woody Danenhower, make-up. Also responsible for the trip to the University of North Carolina were the numerous people who came to the aid of the Vagabonds when they overspent their budget, donating $375 to pay the costs necessary in entering the contest.

Johnson Exhibits Abstract Sculpture

John E. Johnson in a one-man exhibit is showing his abstract sculpture. The exhibit is on display in the Morrison Room of the College Union in connection with the Fine Arts Festival.

A native of Wilmington, N.C., Johnson was educated in the Charlotte public schools, but has received no formal art instruction. In 1959 with his metal sculpture entitled “Standing Woman” Johnson received honorable mention in the John Ringling North Art Competition. He has exhibited at the Public Library in Charlotte and is currently working on a large piece of abstract welded sculpture for theBlowing Rock studio of Philip Moose, visiting professor of art at Davidson. Horace Richter, New York industrialist and art collector, recently purchased a piece of sculpture from Johnson for the permanent Richter collection of contemporary American art. Johnson at present is teaching a class in drawing and sculpture at the Mint Museum in Charlotte.

Faculty Accepts (Continued From Page One)

After Vespers
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brown
Griffin
Scott
Currie
Kelton
Schenck
Daggy
Lloyd
Stroud
Fleming
Marrotte
Tucker
Gable
J. G. Martin
Watts

Student Council Officers Will Be Installed Monday
BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Installation of Student Council officers for the year 1961-62 will be Monday, April 17. In the Student Council elections this week, the following were chosen from the rising Senior Class: Duncan Morton, president; Harry Cline, vice president; D. G. Martin, Jr., secretary-treasurer; and Tony Diaz and Wyche Fowler, Student Council members.

LEAFER ELECTED
From the rising Junior Class, Larry Leafer was elected president and Bob Cordle and Danny Carrell were elected as Student Council members. From the rising Sophomore Class, Fred McGuirt and Dave Olin were elected to serve as president and Student Council member, respectively.

Morton, from Charlotte, is a pre-med major. He has served his social fraternity, Kappa Sigma, as rush chairman and will serve again this year in that position. A member of the football team, Morton belongs to the D Club and the Beaver Club.

Cline, from Stoney Point, N. C., is an English major and a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity. Also a member of the D Club, he plays varsity baseball.

Martin, from Davidson, is a history major and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He is a member of the basketball team and the D Club. He has also served on the YMCA Cabinet.

SENIOR MEMBERS
Diaz, from Panama City, Panama, came to Davidson his freshman year under the Richardson Scholarship Program. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, of which he is rush chairman for next fall. He is also a member of the Sigma Delta Psi honorary athletic fraternity.

Fowler, from Atlanta, Ga., represented Davidson at the Student Conference On National Affairs this past fall. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and is serving on the YMCA Cabinet this year.

Jordan Announces '61 - '62 Paper Staff
This week the new editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Dave Jordan, announced that former Assistant Business Manager Gene Adcock would be Business Manager. He named as Associate Editors Leonard Richardson and Don Saunders. Mac Plaxico, in charge of the first and fourth pages, and John A. Carson, in charge of the second page, were appointed Managing Editors.

Leafer, from Newton, N. C., holds a Dana Scholarship. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. A member of the cross-country team, he belongs to the D Club and Beaver Club.

RISING JUNIORS
Carrell, from Louisville, Kentucky belongs to the Sigma Chi social fraternity and is a member of the Eumenean Literary Society. He also played on the basketball team this past season.

Cordle, from Charlotte, is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. A member of the Beaver Club, he is a member of the football and track teams.

McGuirt, from Lumberton, N. C., is a pre-med major and a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity. He also plays football.

Olin, from Columbus, Ohio, is also a pre-med major and member of Sigma Chi social fraternity. He is a member of the freshman track team and sings in the Chapel Choir.

Shue, Bolt continue their education. Shue, a philosophy-psychology major from Staunton, Va., has been awarded a Danforth Graduate Fellowship for further study in preparation for college teaching. Bolt, a pre-med major from Charlotte, is the recipient of a Z. Smith Reynolds Scholarship for study at the Bowman Gray School of Medicine of Wake Forest.

The Danforth Fellowships, established by Mr. and Mrs. William H. Danforth of St. Louis, are intended to serve the needs of young men and women, particularly their educational needs, with special emphasis upon the cultural and spiritual aspects of education. Shue plans to use his Rhodes Scholarship for two or three years’ study at Oxford in psychology and philosophy and then return to this country to earn either his Ph. D. in psychology, or his B. D., or both.

Bolt is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-med fraternity, and Sigma Chi social fraternity, and has served on THE DAVIDSONIAN staff and the Baptist Student Union. He also belongs to Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, and Delta Phi Delta, honorary German fraternity.

The scholarships, ranging in size from $2,400 to $4,800 per year, provide for the total cost of the four years of the medical curriculum and for each of two years of hospital or post-graduate training. They are awarded annually to eight of the 54 first-year students by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation, and the winners are selected by the medical school committee on admissions on the basis of character, scholarship, potential as a physician, and financial need. Bolt is the third Davidson student to receive a Reynolds Scholarship, Dave McCullough and Fred Lane each having won one last year. He plans to begin his studies this coming September.

Leander: Sin, Suicide Not Sweden's Problem
BY PER LEANDER
Richardson Scholar

(Editor’s Note: This is the last in a series of articles by Richardson Scholars about customs and characteristics of their homelands, or on their impressions of Davidson.)

The television program last Sunday in the “20th Century” series dealing with the Swedish Welfare State was fairly accurate, but parts of the program were presented in such a fragmentary manner as to distort truth. We were introduced to a typical middle-class family with an annual income of $6200. This figure does not sound very impressive, but I dare say that this family should enjoy a standard of living equal to that of an American $9000 a year family. There are three reasons. Most important, many prices are lower in Sweden. For example, a good meal would cost about 60 or 70 cents. Secondly, much of the money for the social welfare program is paid by the firms to the state directly. The benefits decrease family expenditures by $200-$400 a year. Thirdly, the public transportation facilities have deteriorated in the United States. (Only Manhattan’s facilities are comparable to the Swedish ones, as I should know after traveling in 18 of these states.) The Swedish family does not really need a car. And to manage without a car would for an American family be the same as a raise by $1000 a year, wouldn’t it?

Steve Clark will continue as the Sports Editor. The new Assignments Editor is Bill Hagen and Rick von Unwerth was chosen as Feature Editor of the paper. Continuing to serve as Advertising Manager and Circulation Manager are Olin Nisbet and Jimmy Platt respectively. Rick Finch was appointed Assistant Business Manager.

The faculty concerning their testing policy and several other matters. The final paragraph of the report states: “Rather than an attempt to present a panacea for these problems or to dictate policy to the faculty, the Honor Court’s purpose is to help promote an awareness that there are problems in the Davidson System of education, especially in the area of pledged work, which both the faculty and the student body must work together to solve in order to maintain a spirit of honor that is consistent with the true aims and purposes of an education.”

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

American on the go... in a full year college program at the University of Vienna. Choice of English or German-taught liberal arts classes for sophomores and juniors. Application Deadline: June 15. Send coupon today!

The non-profit educational organization

(Note: Next Sunday “20th Century” will deal with the problems of the Swedish Welfare State. I have certain misgivings that primarily the fictitious problems like sin, alcoholism, and suicide will be brought up instead of the real ones. As a matter of fact, marriages are as common in Sweden as in the United States. The juvenile delinquency rate is lower in Sweden than in the United States. The same is true about alcoholism; Sweden has 2,580 alcoholics for 10,000 adults while the United States has 4,390. There are more recognized suicides in Sweden. But Sweden has not the highest rate. According to statistics, there are in Europe half a dozen countries with higher suicide rates. Finally, I would urge everyone to put on the television set at 6:30 p.m. Sunday. I hope there will not be another rock ‘n roll performance. Rock ‘n roll in Sweden is dead, and “Rock-Olga” is no representative for the beautiful Swedish girls.)

Copyright © 1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

BETWEEN BITES... get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina