Che BDauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

College Bumps One Tradition...

We knew it was an unusual spring, but not that unusual. This week we learned that the great embracer and
defender of traditions has slipped. The college has actually bumped, very quietly and very effectively, one of its longest-standing traditions
to keep in line with the times. We are mildly surprised, considerably disappointed, and very suspicious about the whole matter.
We are wondering about the purity of the motives behind it. We are also wondering why it was not announced
weeks ago when the axe was given.

Davidson will no longer have student speakers at commencement. The days of the valedictorian and salutatorian are gone. The excuse
given — to shorten the graduation exercises in line with the new streamlined approach to everything. All colleges are supposed
to be doing it now. It is no radical departure, officials insist. Rather sudden, though, wasn’t it? And right on
the heels of the most controversial student addresses in that long tradition! And since when have we fallen so easily
in step with other schools? Are these the schools with which we prefer to compare ourselves?

We find it strange that the seniors in line for this distinction first officially learned of its elimination from THE
DAVIDSONIAN. Really, we can't excuse this oversight of the faculty. Surely, no valedictory is expected to be a “quick” job.
With only two weeks until graduation, it is reasonably safe to assume some thought or actual work had gone into
preparing possible speeches. The faculty decision came weeks ago.

It will be many more unusual springs from now before this community forgets the commencement speeches delivered last year. They
set the audience and community back on their ears. Many praised them, others were biting in their criticisms. In a
very brief six lines of poetry, Dabney Stuart delivered a most moving salutatory which was reprinted in numbers of newspapers
and magazines with highest praise for its message and great departure from the usual. The other was a most critical,
but sincere, reflection on Davidson by a most outstanding valedictorian, Dave Robinson. They were out of place and taste, the
critics said then and now. They certainly were different. They certainly evoked hard feelings. They gave us something to talk
about.

Now speeches are taboo. Valedictorians and salutatorians, or should we say now the highest and second highest students academically, will
be recognized on the program and there alone. The college may say this has been a long time in the
planning; they may say last spring’s events played only a minor role. Coming when it does and as it does,
we find this hard to believe. If it is true, it is unfortunate that the college chose this time to
take action. It leaves itself wide open to attack. And besides, we think it is good for the top students
of the college to have their opportunity to speak, whether what they have to say is pleasing or not. We
would just ask that it be sincere, constructive, and well considered. This time, for once, we want to keep a
tradition.

... And Hastens To Keep Another

As news became official this week about student speakers, the college was rushing to complete preparations for another fine old
tradition — the raising of the class flag at commencement. The hole was dug last week — just at the
right time for the beginning of another great tradition, the annual May Hole festivities. This week, they were pouring the
concrete base. Most of the time it remained hidden under a wooden cover. We wish it could remain that way.

Unfortunately, however, the college will erect a tall, sturdy flag pole right in the middle of the walk to Chambers.
Every effort will be made to complete it before the end of school. It will be initiated by the raising
and flying of the flag for the class of 1961. That is some distinction for them — there must be
some significance. It won’t take long next fall before it becomes initiated in another sense. Unfortunately, its new location will
promote it as the most likely prospect for every imaginable prank. Who knows what all will be found flying there?

We'll be waiting for the first morning (or evening!) some weary-eyed, unsuspecting student staggers into the formidable obstacle. He won't
be very patriotic. Don’t get us wrong. We think a flag pole is a fine thing — in its place.
We just don't think that is its place. But the college weighed the advantages of every available square foot of
space before deciding on this choice spot. All aspects were considered. It will be near Chambers, the center of the
campus. This is understandable. It will be in a spot easily accessible to students (you can say that again.) It
will be on a neat perpendicular between the center of academic learning and the headquarters of the ROTC. It will
be convenient to see and care for. It is all plain and simple. But if they could just put it
back in front of the fine arts building. The two deserve each other.

Five Fine Flicks

The Fine Films Festival’s final attraction, “Birth of a Nation”, filled the College Union to capacity again two nights this
week, proving that neither rain nor impending exams could stop the festival’s success. Excellent publicity, skillful scheduling, and a varied
program of five “film masterpieces” resulted in one of the most successful programs on campus this year. The first film
in the series, “Open City,” was shown April 12 and 13. Season tickets and admissions sold the first night paid
for the cost of the festival. Over 400 season tickets were sold to local students, Queens girls, faculty, and visitors
from Charlotte and Statesville. This contrasts sharply to the ill-fated 1957-58 Fine Films Program which lost $200, probably because of
mediocre publicity and an unfortunate decision to jam all the showings into one week.

The festival was planned and carried out by the Union Film Committee. Rising junior David Simpson, chairman, and the other
members of the committee deserve praise for their work. They are planning to show nine distinguished films next year, one
each month. We're looking forward to the movies and wish them luck.

O. L. R.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Leonard Richardson

BUSINESS MANAGER
Don Saunders

Associate Editors
John A. Carson
Mac Plaxico

Managing Editors
Steve Clark
Bill Hagen
David Jordan
Gene Adcock

Feature Editor
Rick von Unwerth

Photographers
Jerry Abernethy
Marty Lafferty
Bill Wyche

Advertising Manager
Ed Willer

Circulation Manager
Jimmy Platt

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Also On The Exam...

By Howell

Davidson Grad Defends, Lauds Honors Program

By ED SPIVEY, ’60

(Editor’s Note: THE DAVIDSONIAN is pleased to report that since the appearance of its two articles on the Honors program
at Davidson, the English Department has begun a specific study of the program in that area, making positive changes toward
its improvement. Below, another view of Honors is presented. This article was received by the paper this week as a
letter to the editor.)

I have read with interest the article by Mr. Hansford Epes concerning the Honors program in your April 28 issue.
Having been for two years a student in the English Honors program before my graduation, I feel called upon to
make a reply of sorts to this article. I will fully grant the truth of the comments he makes in
regard to the two courses mentioned (concerning “paperbacks” and “the last time I saw Chaucer”) because I have been taken
by those two courses, also.

SUPERBLY HANDLED

However, a generalization based on those two instances is grossly unfair to the English department as a whole. Six of
the eight courses I took in the Honors program were superbly handled and were of great value to me. I
feel that the Honors program is one of the best things that Davidson has to offer, and I am glad
to see that it is being improved.

Value Of Liaison Work Depends Upon Future

By JOHN KUYKENDALL

In evaluating this year's fraternity liaison work, it must be pointed out that any judgments at this time must necessarily
hinge on future progress. Foundations have been laid which we believe to be solid, but time is the factor which
will prove or disprove these beginnings.

The Greek Week situation was the most complex and, in some sense, the most critical problem encountered. I feel that
the overall outcome was good, due primarily to the constructive leadership of the fraternity presidents and the favorable attitude of
the individuals within the fraternities. Greek Week still has its problems. The new regulations are basically sound, and can, I
believe, be adhered to without loss of fraternity spirit or adequate preparation for initiates. Long-range planning of pledge programs, including
a beneficial Greek Week schedule, would seem to be a necessity. Also, I feel that increased interfraternity pledge activities, both
competitive and non-competitive in nature, may very well play an important part in providing for proper adjustment to fraternity life.
Other factors, such as proper scheduling of dates for Greek Week and initiation, and more inclusive criteria for judging the
best pledge class, must be considered well in advance. In sum, we can say that Greek Week this year was
a very good beginning, leaving a need for some additional work in the future.

It has become apparent since Greek Week that there are several other areas of our fraternity system in which the
liaison officer can be of service to the fraternities. Preliminary “spadework” has been done this semester in the study offi-
nancial affairs, house man- agement problems, and fac- ulty advisors and their du- ties. In addition to these mat- ters,
there are several other things which should be con- sidered in planning for the future of the liaison officer's job.
There is a need to de- fine the respective duties of the IFC and the Fraternity Presidents’ Council. The Red
Book regula- tions must be reorganized to suit our present situa- tion, and there is still much to be done
in the basic area of faculty-fra- ternity communication. In my opinion, the effect- iveness of a liaison job of any
sort can be predicted fairly accurately by the amount of cooperation that worker receives from the groups he serves. Any
pro- gress which has been made in our fraternity system or in faculty-fraternity relations during this semester has been a
direct result of the willingness on the part of both groups to pursue a com- mon goal. It is my
belief that the po- sition of Fraternity Liaison Officer can be of great ser- vice, both to Davidson and to
her fraternity system, through cooperative efforts such as this.

IN FACT, WE WANT TO JUMP ROPE RIGHT WHERE WE'RE SITTING....SO MANY TIMES! IF THIS HAD BEEN NATIONAL DOG WEEK,
I NEVER WOULD HAVE MOVED!

The courses were superbly handled by professors genuinely in- terested in providing the stu- dent with the opportunities for acquiring
an excellent ed- ucation. These men ably and subtly steered the discussions into the most profitable channels, allowing the students
to car- ry the burden of the semi- nars. This was good strategy, and has paid off in more ways
than one. I will agree with Mr. Epes that the num- ber of papers due was some- what prohibitive to
the best results, in some cases. Mr. Epes is correct in his assumption that much of the blame for the
failure of the program lies with the stu- dent. I would amend his statement to read “Almost all the blame...”
Mr. Epes is also right in his statement that the stu- dent is given much opportu- nity to loaf. His
comment, “and we do it,” however, is a clear indictment of him- self, and not of the system.

OPPORTUNITIES

Along with the “opportu- nity to loaf” is the opportu- nity to work himself bow- legged in meaningful pur- suits.
In the Davidson Honors program the student is given free rein to explore unlimit- ed areas of knowledge, with virtually
no pressure as far as grades are concerned. He works strictly for his own benefit, and not to satis- fy
a professor for the sake of a small black mark made in two seconds’ time. He is not bound by
the formalities of classroom procedure and of set requirements. Any student who will com- plain about this freedom is merely
evidencing his own lack of maturity, his need for the “iron master,” his lack of interest in bettering himself, his
inability to push himself, his contempt for his own capabilities and for his powers of free choice. In saying these
things I am not trying to glorify my- self at the expense of Mr. Epes. I remember Mr. Epes as
a hard worker, and I feel that his objections are gen- eral, rather than applicable to himself.

OWN FAULT

I can see many areas in which I failed to take full ad- vantage of my opportunities. In that sense
the charges I have made against the Epes article are charges against myself; they are, however, definitely not charges against
the Honors pro- gram. The program is set up for a special type of student — the one who can
and will make the most of his free- dom. In that respect, I would suggest that the departments concerned use
more discrim- ination in choosing Honors candidates, even if they end up with only one student, or perhaps none. Grades
alone are no criterion. Certainly “even Honors students need to learn facts.” They need to know more than “1066,” “ex-
istential,” “a-b-a-b,” and “metaphysical.” But, if a person needs a cat-o'-nine-tails to make him learn facts, he should not even
be in college.

On A Rain-Veiled Day, You Walk And Remember
By ERVIN DUGGAN

You are walking late on a rain-veiled afternoon, and the question follows you: How do you say goodbye? The four
years are gone, and you find yourself thinking of the end, but remembering the begin- ning...

There was a long impatient summer when the let- ters came:
“Let me congratulate you on your choice...”
“These will be the most important years of your life...”
“You will never regret your decision...”

And then one from a sophomore:
“I can never forget the tingle of excitement I felt upon first reaching the campus,” he said. “But that, like
everything else, gets the usual dampen- ing.”

You didn’t believe it. College, you were sure, would be a place for saints and heroes, a citadel of sages
where men were wise and honest; an adventure, a delight —

And so you came, full of uncertain expectations. Four times you began with the tingle of excitement, and often the
dampening came —
— In the hard irony of the steeple, glimpsed above the shanties;
— In the jarring cruelty of four Rush Weeks;
— In the tired voice of an antique, saying, “You knew it was like this when you came, didn’t you?”

As though a college lives for its past, not its potential!

But you learned a lot. You remember a midnight discussion with a friend who said, “I think the really great
men led alone. They always led without followers — sometimes never found any. But they were always ahead of the
rest.”

You remember the hard gaze of a professor and his irritated, “Think, for God’s sake! Change your mind! You're in
college, not in church!”

And you remember seeing a card above a class- mate’s desk: “Nothing is worth doing unless the con- sequences might
be serious.”

You learned that “practicality” is the great enemy of progress, and you met the strange idea that religion somehow must
be more than the pause that refreshes.

This was college — a thousand coffee cups, a thou- sand cigarettes, a thousand names and faces, a thou- sand
conversations, a thousand books and facts forgotten.

Now, at the end, a strange thought comes: Some day, perhaps, for saints and heroes, men are wise...

And for a moment, walking through the little rain- drenched world, you feel like a freshman again.

FOCUS ON FOCUS
Duggan's Verbose Column Evoked Praise, Abuse
By RICK von UNWERTH
Davidsonian Feature Editor

This week Ervin Duggan writes his last article for THE DAVIDSONIAN. For four years his stories have evoked praise, an
occasional award, and often tor- rents of outraged criticism and abuse. The praise was certainly deserved; the criti- cism, for
the most part, was not. The most outstanding, if not always the most appar- ent, characteristic of Duggan’s editorials was
his un- bounded respect and devotion to the institution which he frequently censured — Davidson. He renounced tradition — but
only when the particular tradition was, in his opinion, harmful to Davidson. B. Millner, who was perhaps closer than anyone
to Duggan’s editorial sympathies, said that “Ervin wrote only what he felt. He was always conscious of the fact that
he was taking an unpopular stand, and he didn’t like it. But he never took an unpleasant stand just for
the sake of criticism.” There were times when he de- clined to set forth the paper's policy on controversial is-
sues. “If I write it,” he has said, “people will just say it’s that damn Duggan again.”

Probably the most remarkable thing about Duggan is the fact that his views are liberal. His home is Man- ning,
a small town Down State in South Carolina, the heart of Old Southern Conservatism. Yet he has constantly and vigorously
urged David- son toward advancement in desegregation and academ- ic freedom, among other so-called “liberal” ideals. Duggan has meant a
lot to THE DAVIDSONIAN, and to Davidson. He has a tremendous capacity for un- earthing new ideas, and, once sold
on a plan or con- cept, will vigorously and competently defend his position. His memory is fantastic, and he is
not only aware of current issues, but can quote everything that has been said about them.

His imagination is probably his greatest asset aside from his gift for expression. He once devised a get-rich scheme; a
plan to organize a student laundry-hauling service, with a complex system of pickup and delivery to and from the dorms.
He expected at least 500 students to subscribe. A pre-organizational poll of his friends discouraged him.

Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz has worked with him in English and extra-curriculars for four years. He re- marked that “in
class Ervin is maddeningly irrespon- sible but brilliant. On the campus, he is the fearless and perceptive critic of what
he secretly cherishes. It is as a writer that he resolves these paradoxes: for here he becomes a professional (Ervin
would rather be caught nude in Vespers than use a cliche) with a great- er versatility and talent than any
student I have ever known.”

Duggan hated deadlines. “Remember that two word refrain that kept recurring in Ervin’s story about L. W. — ‘next week’?
Well that’s Ervin,” says Millner. “But he always got it in, and it was always good.”

In two weeks Ervin Duggan will graduate, with a grade that in no way indicates his ability. He goes to
work this summer for The Washington Post. Fifteen, twenty years from now he'll be a columnist, or maybe an author.
One thing is certain: The products of his prolific typewriter will be expensive — because they'll be the best in
the field.
