CALHOUN RESPONDS TO HONORS PROGRAM (See Page Two)

VOL. XLIX

Rusk Trophy Project Gathers Momentum

An inter-fraternity service trophy, named in honor of Secretary of State Dean Rusk, will be offered beginning next year. A
group of seniors this week began working to establish the award, to be offered to the Davidson fraternity whose year-long
activities are judged to be most beneficial to the college and the community.

The group now hopes to purchase a sterling bowl similar to the Belk Scholarship trophy. It would be presented each
spring after a faculty-citizen committee made selections on the basis of an examination of each fraternity’s year-round program. About thirty
seniors have joined the founding committee and are beginning plans for the establishment of the award.

A brochure prepared by the committee stated: “This award will carry a double incentive: prestige and a handsome, practical trophy
— to encourage fraternities to contribute significantly to the college and the community all year long. Present plans are to
award the trophy first in spring, 1962.”

Members of the senior group emphasized that “this project is still in the planning stage. We haven't made final decisions
about the selection of winners; that will wait until we get a group of students and faculty together to discuss
it fully and get a wide range of ideas.”

Faculty members queried on the project expressed enthusiasm. President D. Grier Martin stated: “This award should be enthusiastically sought by
all fraternities ... I believe that it will represent a large step forward for the Davidson fraternity system.”

Fraternity Liaison Officer John Kuykendall said, “I am enthusiastic about the prospects for such an award. It is my belief
that fraternities ... are worthwhile and responsible participants in the campus community, and any recognition such as this would certainly
give favorable emphasis to the fact.”

College Fills Frosh Quota By Accepting Only 400

By JOHN CARSON
Davidsonian Managing Editor

With an increase of highly-qualified applicants for next year’s freshman class, many boys who would normally be accepted to Davidson
will find themselves turned down, or at best put on a small waiting list offering little hope. “We make no
pretense about it,” said Associate Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White, “our standards of admission are becoming increasingly higher.” He
was quick to add, however, that this is not the result of any change of policy by the school, but
simply that the admission office is being flooded with applicants, and thus must accept students on a competitive basis.

Abernathy Misses In Bid For Mayor

Davidson’s incumbent mayor, Dr. F. L. Jackson, withstood the political challenge of Junior Jerry Abernathy at the polls Tuesday and
swept to his sixth term in the town’s top position. Dr. Jackson, formerly treasurer of the college, defeated Abernathy by
250 votes to 77. It was the first opposition Jackson has faced in several years. He was appointed mayor in
1951 and has been elected every two years since. Abernathy claimed that his main purpose in running was to renew
community interest in its town government. He is a political science major.

MAXIMUM EXCEEDED

The quota for next year has already been filled, with 280 acceptances having filed their $100 deposit as of May
2. Although this number exceeds the desired maximum of 270, White feels confident that at least ten, and possibly more,
will drop out by next fall. A small waiting list may be set up, but the chances of anyone else
being admitted are slim. Of interest also is the large number of acceptees who have filed a deposit. Last year
approximately 460 students were accepted, and out of these 250 were enrolled, or about 60%. White stated that this was
about par for the smaller selective colleges.

DEPOSIT FEE RAISED

The deposit fee this year has been raised from $50 to $100 in order to lessen the number of students
who normally enroll and then drop out during the summer. Approximately 24 students did this last year.

HARRY GOLDEN

Golden To Speak In Tuesday Chapel

Harry Golden, noted editor and humorist, will be a special guest speaker in student assembly next Tuesday. Golden will be
coming to Davidson directly from attending the Adolf Eichmann trial in Israel. Golden, a frequent visitor to the campus, had
been scheduled to come two other times during the year but had to change his plans. For the past month,
he has been covering the Eichmann trial and connected events for Life magazine. Following the assembly, Golden will be in
the College Union for a coffee hour. He will be available at that time for any questions on his trip
to Israel or other activities. At one point, Golden was to appear on the panel for the YMCA Book of
the Year program in February, which featured a study of Exodus by Leon Uris. He was called to the west
coast on business at that time.

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1961

BOARD FAILS TO ASSIGN STUDENTS HERE

TENNIS TEAM PLAYS IN CONFERENCE TOURNEY (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWENTY-SIX

Martin: ‘We Will Have Study Will Continue For 1961-2

“We will not have a Congolese student next year,” President D. Grier Martin announced to THE DAVIDSONIAN this week. “The
Board of World Missions in Nashville tells me that our missionary group has assigned ten students — none to Davidson
— for good reasons.” George Cooley, spokesman for the board, told President Martin that the two prospective teachers whom the
board was considering sending to Davidson next year will study in Switzerland, where instruction will be carried on in French.
The two men can get instruction there “without having to worry about language difficulties,” Martin said. “The Board of World
Missions will plan to send one to us when they have one they consider qualified.” Davidson’s Congolese Committee will continue
meeting in preparation for the future, Martin said. “I think the program will be more effective after it is studied.”

JEAN CALVIN MAYIMBU discusses possible problems facing Congolese exchange students. Later this week after Mayimbu’s visit, it was announced that
no Congolese students would be coming to Davidson next year. (Davidsonian Photo by Wyche)

Shue, Footballers

Golden is editor and publisher of The Carolina Israelite, which is printed in Charlotte. A native of New York's Lower
East Side, he has been called “a homespun philosopher and authority on justice for minority groups in America.”

Callaway Receives Pre-Med Award

Richard L. Callaway has been chosen by AED medical fraternity as the outstanding pre-med student in the sophomore class. The
award, which is given on the basis of the student's science grade average, overall average, and interest in the profession
of medicine, is a medical dictionary. Callaway is from Maryville, Tennessee and holds a Baker Scholarship. He is in ATO
social fraternity. As a result of recent elections, Henley Hurt was elected president, Bob Waugh vice president, R. D. Jackson
secretary, Harry Smith treasurer, Harry Richardson historian, and Albert Jones publicity chairman of AED.

MUSCLES TENSED for the tug-o-war contest in the second annual ROTC Field Day Tuesday afternoon on Richardson Field. A-Company walked
away with top honors by scoring a total of 33 points in all events. Approximately 300 non-participating cadets watched from
the bleachers as the top men from Companies A, B, C, and D participated in tug-o-war, volleyball, piggy-back relay, push-up,
M-1 disassembly and assembly, and fancy drill events. Company A also won the rifle match held on the rifle range
in the basement of Belk Dormitory. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells)

Martin: “It seems imperative, if this program is going to work, that we have the best persons. I think they
wouldn't want to send these two who will be teaching French in the Congo and spend most of the year
learning English here. The trustees’ proposal required that the candidate be selected by the Board of World Missions, that he
be Congolese, and that he be qualified for admission. For instance, we couldn’t take a Nigerian no matter how well
qualified without the Board's approval.” Martin said that the two prospective teachers had planned to take a summer course in
language training, but he felt this would not have left them well enough prepared. “I had urged them to consider
intensifying the English language preparation over there.”suggested that the missionary group in the Congo might “go on now and pick
out the boys” they want to send to the United States in 1962 and create a summer training program. “I'm
disappointed, really,” he went on, “but it may be for the best. It gives us longer to assimilate the idea...
I guess I’m looking for the silver lining in this...” The Congolese Committee will continue studying the question in preparation
for Congolese students in 1962.

Y' Slates Drives For Clothing, Books

The YMCA plans to sponsor a clothing and book drive beginning May 15. Also, beginning next Monday the “Y” will
conduct its spring interest drive. The clothing will be sent to Church World Service, which will distribute it to needy
young men in foreign countries. Shikoku College in Japan will receive the books. The book drive was instigated in response
to a suggestion by Arch B. Taylor, Davidson alumnus, who is dean of the college. Boxes will be placed in
each dorm. Any student having questions about the drive can consult Jamie Long, director of the project. Alec Morgan will
head the spring interest drive. This year special effort will be made by the “Y” to ensure that each person
who signs a card will have a chance to work in the area indicated by his interest check.

For 1961-62 Liaison Post.

By LEONARD RICHARDSON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

The college has asked John Kuykendall, ’59, to serve as Fraternity Liaison Officer again next year, pending a decision by
the Army to defer his active duty a year, President D. Grier Martin announced this week. “No final action has
been taken,” Martin said. He explained that the college has put in a request for the one-year deferment because “Kuykendall
would be a tremendous help to the new dean. We realize the importance of this not only in relation to
the fraternity system but to the whole of college life.” Kuykendall said this morning that he should know the Army’s
decision next week. Kuykendall was appointed to serve as Fraternity Liaison Officer shortly after the faculty decided to set up
the post and postpone sophomore rush at their Dec. 6 meeting.

OTHER ISSUES

In reference to the faculty's decision to postpone sophomore rush for one year, Martin explained that freshman rush will continue
unless the faculty decides to take other action. “It will not automatically be brought up at a faculty meeting... but
as you know, any faculty member has the right to bring up anything at these meetings. “My feeling concerning the
matter,” Martin continued, “is that the faculty was pleased with the first experience we had under this new set up,
and as far as I have had any intimations, the faculty will not be disposed to change this. If fraternities
continue this fall with programs like those carried out this spring — with one or two exceptions — there will
not be a renewed effort toward sophomore rush at this time.”

THEFT PROBLEM

“The problem (of thefts) has become more severe because of the apparently greater stealing going on,” Martin said in response
to a question concerning the increase in reported thefts on campus. “We would welcome creative proposals about what we could
do.” Martin suggested the possibility that outsiders are involved. “The college should try in every way possible to do away
with this possibility," he added, explaining that if the Honor Court finds that outsiders are not responsible, it can find
out who “in our group” is. He said that “as far as completed action,” the college has employed a Saturday
night watchman and two students for Saturday afternoons and other times when there are not many students on campus. “Students
themselves must be more alert when they see someone they don't recognize in the dormitories. A person who comes here
ought to be brought here by some other person who has responsibility for him. I don't know at what points
you can make the distinction,” he added, mentioning the case of a student who might be visiting the college. Martin
said that the Student-Faculty Committee has discussed the desirability of having a place in each room where students can lock
things up. “It seems to me everybody deserves the right of privacy and the right of security.”

LOCKS DISCUSSED

The committee has discussed putting locks on the desk drawers in dormitory rooms, and considered installing compartments with small padlocks
with combination locks like those in the local post office to avoid the problem of students losing their keys. He
said the men on the VPI track team from whom money was taken last week will be reimbursed, but added,
“I don't think we'd want this to establish a precedent by any means. It may encourage miscellaneous people any time
they lose something to make claims against the college.” Since the college provides locks on the doors of dormitory rooms,
he does not think the college would necessarily be responsible for losses.

NEW FACULTY

President Martin declined to announce new additions to the faculty until they are approved by the Board of Trustees at
their meeting May 18. “I can tell you I'm mighty proud of them,” he remarked. “We'll recommend several people whom
we feel will make remarkably fine additions to our instructional staff.” “There will be at least one additional person added
to the faculty, one full-time person in the area of philosophy and religion to relieve the men who'll be working
on the new integrated (humanities) program... According to Martin, this man has “some of the highest recommendations I've heard in
a long time...” He also mentioned an addition to the Physics Department who holds a PhD in Chemistry. “I feel
that there is a definite need for progress in science specifically designed to help non-science people understand science better and
more broadly than is possible under our present curriculum,” he commented when asked about his views on (Continued On Page
Four)

Honored At Chapel

The Alumni Association presented awards to Henry Shue and to the football team at chapel Thursday. William A. White, vice
president of the Alumni Association, presented Student Body President Henry Shue with a suitcase in recognition of his winning a
Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford University. John Horton, on behalf of the Student body and the Alumni Association, awarded the football
used in the VPI-Davidson game, which had been cast in bronze, to the football team. Season Captains Scott Lacy and
Danny House and game captains Ed Crutchfield and Carl Hunt received the trophy, on which the score was inscribed. President
Martin introduced James F. Pinckney, president of the Alumni Association. Pinckney spoke on the need for increased awareness of national
and international affairs on the part of Davidson students.

Ten Fraternities Plan For Spring Functions

Ten fraternities announced plans this week for their spring functions and social events of the year. Alpha Tau Omega will
hold their annual White Tea Rose Ball, a semi-formal banquet and party, at the ATO house on May 13. During
the evening, Col. Adams, commander of the Davidson ROTC unit will speak, and the ATO Sweetheart will be announced. That
same night, Phi Delta Theta fraternity will hold their Blue and White at the Policeman’s Club in Charlotte, at which
time they will announce the name of their Dream Girl. The Kappa Sigma fraternity held their annual Black and White
last Saturday night, April 29, at Boyle’s Cabin. Miss Joanne Guantz was crowned the new Kappa Sig Sweetheart. Pi Kappa
Phi will hold their Rose Ball this Saturday night at Lake Lynn Lodge. After a formal dinner, the Rose Queen
of Pi Kappa Phi will be announced, and a formal dance will be held in her honor. Sigma Chi fraternity
will hold their annual Sweetheart Ball May 13 at the National Guard Armory in Cornelius. After a formal dance, a
party will be held in honor of the new Sweetheart at Midway Lake. The Phi Gamma Delta function, Fiji Island,
was held April 29, at the Commander Yacht Club. Miss Eleanor Woods was crowned Sweetheart, and an informal party was
held on the beach. The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity will hold their annual Dream Girl Ball tomorrow night at the
Policeman’s Club in Charlotte. There will be a formal banquet and dance, at which the new Dream Girl will be
announced. The White Rose Ball of Sigma Nu was held March 11, at the Starlight Supper Club in Charlotte. Mrs.
George Labon was named White Rose Queen at a formal dance. The Sigma Phi Epsilon function was held in conjunction
with other state chapters of Sig Ep at the Sig Ep Ball at the Robert E. Lee Hotel in Winston-Salem
on April 29. Miss Jackie Nealey was announced as Dream Girl. The Kappa Alpha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Beta Theta
Pi fraternities will not have formal spring functions.
