MIDWEEK BREAK

The College Union will, tomorrow night, be the scene of the first of a series of Wednesday night galas. Midweek
Break is the nomenclature assigned to these parties, and the title is a descriptive one.

These socials take place at 9:00 P.M. and last until 9:30, and are designed to allow us to let off
a little steam in the middle of the week. Hostesses from the town will be in attendance both to assist
in the serving of the food, and for the edification of those of us who feel stranded and out of
touch with civilization here at Davidson.

The break this week will feature hot dogs, cokes, and a whole raft of fellowship.

So, drop around the Union tomorrow night and get a load off your poor overtaxed brain. Join us and fill
up on franks and scintillating conversation.

ROBES MISSING

H. A. Fussell of the music department has reported the loss of four Male Chorus robes. These robes were loaned
to one or more fraternities for initiation ceremonies and have, as yet, not been returned.

The music department will appreciate the cooperation of the student body in locating these robes so that they be available
for loan at a future date. Anyone with knowledge pertaining to the final disposition of these robes should contact the
Union Desk or Mr. Fussell.

PAPERBACK SWAP-SHELF

The Union is trying to start a paperback swap shop this summer but we need your contributions of paperback books
to add to the three Dr. Staples gave us. Don't give your old books to the paper drive; give them
to the Union!!!

STUDENT STORE HOURS

The hours for the student store are:
Monday - Friday 8:30 - 10:30 A.M.
12:30 - 2:00 P.M.
5:30 - 6:30 P.M.
Saturday 8:30 A.M. - 12:00 Noon

CONTRIBUTIONS

Anyone having stories or announcements of general interest see the editor of ONLY IN SUMMER SCHOOL in the Union office
to have their contribution included in this august yellow sheet.

DESKMEN SELECTED

The smiling faces have been chosen for the summer hitch behind the Union Desk. Head Deskman Paul Franson gives the
lineup as follows:

Monday night: Tom Wright
Tuesday night: Bill Yorkman
Wednesday night: Frank Thompson
Thursday night: Jack Romeldorf
Friday night: Norwood Maddry
Saturday night: Steve Parker
Sunday night: Doug Wilkerson

The most familiar and sometimes smiling face around the desk is that of the Head Deskman himself. He will be
around every weekend at lunch and supper time and countless hours in between.

OVERHEARD

Overheard on the second floor of Dana:
"And now, ladies and gentlemen - we will take up reproduction.".....Only in summer school.

HE - SHE
He: Do you like Kipling?
She: I don't know. How do you kipple?

ONLY IN SUMMER SCHOOL

W. C. Rawls, ex-army cartoonist, is the progenitor of this cartoon series, ONLY IN SUMMER SCHOOL. Bill is class of
'57 and has returned to Davidson to complete pre-medical training.
