‘CATS MEET PFEIFFER TOMORROW (See Page Three) The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College POLLEY REVIEWS EXODUS (See Page Two) VOL. XLIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1961 NUMBER FIFTEEN New Semester Brings Outstanding Lecturers By JACK HAND Davidsonian Staff Writer Nine outstanding lecturers will visit the campus during the second semester as guest speakers for various occasions. On Feb. 14, Dr. Frank P. Graham, a member of the United States delegation to the United Nations, will speak at the student assembly. Dr. Graham, who is a former president of the Consolidated University of North Carolina, has served as the chairman of the National Advisory Council on Social Security, and has also served as the first president of the Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies. Leon Uris, author of Exodus, will appear on campus Feb. 21-23 in conjunction with the YMCA Book-of-the-Year program. A former Rhodes Scholar from Davidson, Hugh Cannon, will speak at student assembly on Feb. 28. Cannon, who also graduated from the Harvard University Law School, is now serving as the Executive Assistant to the Governor of North Carolina. Dr. James I. McCord, president of Princeton Theological Seminary, will appear as Otts Lecturer during March 5-7. Dr. McCord is the former dean of the faculty at Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary. During April 10-11, Professor Harlow Shapley, a well-known astronomer who has long been associated with Harvard University, will appear as the Reynolds Lecturer. Shapley is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and has received numerous scientific awards for his work in astronomy. Dr. Joseph Sittler, author and theologian, will appear on campus April 16-18 as the final Otts Lecturer. Sittler is a professor of theology at the University of Chicago and has written such books as “Doctrine of the Word and Structure of Christian Ethics.” Dr. Liston Pope, Dean of the Yale University Divinity School, will be on campus April 20-21 as the Phi Beta Kappa Lecturer. Pope is the author of “Millhands and Preachers” and the former editor of “Social Action.” During April 26-27, John Crowe Ransom, Carnegie Professor of Poetry at Kenyon College, will appear for the Fine Arts Festival and Vereen Bell Award. On May 2, Harry Golden, editor of “The Carolina Israelite,” will speak at the student assembly. Golden is the author of the best-sellers “Only in America,” “For Two Cents Plain,” and “Enjoy, Enjoy!” Student Council Adopts Proposed Judiciary Board By KNOX ABERNETHY Davidsonian Staff Writer The Student Council has passed an article of the proposed constitution which would provide for a Judiciary Board to try all students accused of breaking student body regulations. The proposed board would be made up of the president of the student body, the two vice-presidents and secretary-treasurer of the student body, and the president of the class of the accused student. SUSPENSION POWER The article gives the power of suspension to the board, along with a wide range of punishments to be meted out according to the degree of the offense. The Honor Court will then be restricted to trying honor violations alone, since the Judiciary Board will try all cases involving student body regulations. The council has not yet come to a final decision regarding the proposed revisions of the regulations. This decision will have a great effect on the actions of the board as it now stands. The article which provided for the setting up of the Elections Board was passed by a vote of five to four after a lengthy debate among council members. NEW PROBLEMS Those who opposed the board argued that it was superfluous and that there was danger in placing too much power in the hands of a very few students. There was also fear that problems would arise concerning which court or board would try a specific case. Some of the opposition also felt that this distinguishing between an honor offense and the breaking of a regulation would do serious damage to the honor system and to the prestige of the Honor Court and that it would even more seriously detract from the influence of the regulations. The proposers of the board meanwhile argued that it would enhance, rather than damage, the prestige of the honor system. They also contended that by putting the power of enforcement in the hands of students who served on the Student Council, there would be a more active and more effective enforcement of regulations. Reference was made to the recent move to improve conduct in Vespers, where the Honor Court was forced to try cases without knowing of the Council’s discussion and interpretation of them. HANDBOOK EDITOR The council also took action providing for the transfer of The Wildcat Handbook from the YMCA. It passed a resolution that the editor of the handbook be elected by the student body, after nominations had been made by the Publications Board. An alternate proposal, which provided for the appointment of the editor by the Publications Board and a council member, was defeated by a vote of four to three. The council decided not to act on the vacancy created by the departure of George Trask, who is studying abroad this semester. ELECTIONS BOARD President Shue also appointed a nominating committee for the Elections Board. The committee will nominate one senior from each fraternity and four senior independents. Lovette Cut ICF Discs During 14 Month Tour By LEONARD RICHARDSON Davidsonian Feature Editor The International Communications Foundation is attempting to acquaint Americans with Yugoslavia, Iran, Turkey, Pakistan, and Afghanistan by compiling a colorful series of sound slide-films to illustrate different aspects of these cultures. Jim Lovette, who graduated from Davidson in January, traveled 14 months with the ICF as sound technician. From the summer of 1957 to the fall of 1958, Lovette journeyed through Europe and Asia to record the music and ‘typical’ sounds of five little-known countries. These recordings supplement the hundreds of photographs taken by the ICF staff for the sound and film-strip kits displayed in the College Union lounge this week. PRIVATE GROUP The International Communications Foundation is a non-profit, private educational and cultural organization headed by Lawrence Van Mourick, Jr. of Los Angeles State College. The ICF is working toward promoting international understanding by probing into the history and contemporary life of nations abroad and creating pictorial and sound representations of the way of life of the people whose cultures are most removed from the normal frame of reference of the average American. According to Lovette, the ICF took form in 1957 when a group of experts on international matters received a grant from the Mary H. Babcock Foundation for ICF. AUDIO-VISUAL KITS “If you'll take a look at these audio-visual kits on display you'll see how we documented (Continued On Page Four)fra- dents to handle the student body elections. The nominating committee was headed by John Packer, as announced to THE DAVIDSONIAN today.

2-Day Visit To Campus By DAVID JORDAN

The noted author and lecturer will participate in a two-day program March 27-28, as the second Reynolds Lecturer of the year. Pulitzer Prize-winning poet Archibald MacLeish initiated the program last November. Toynbee, whose 10-volume series entitled “A Study of History” is considered one of the most outstanding historical works ever written, will address members of the college community and guests in an open lecture Monday night, March 27. He will also speak at the Tuesday morning assembly.

Next Reynolds Lecturer To Speak March 27, 28

By DAVID JORDAN
Managing Editor

British Historian Arnold Toynbee will visit the Davidson campus in late March under the new Reynolds Distinguished Lectureship Series, Dean Frontis Johnston announced to THE DAVIDSONIAN today. Toynbee has made several visits to America. Several years ago he was a visiting professor of history at Washington and Lee University for a semester. In addition to his famed 10-volume study, Toynbee has also written many other books, including Christianity and Civilization, Civilization on Trial, Prospects of Western Civilization, and The World and the West.

In a letter to Dean Johnston, chairman of the lectureship committee, he enthusiastically agreed to a number of informal meetings over the period of his two-day visit. “For informal meetings, my experience is that ‘bull sessions,’ in which points for discussion are brought up by members of the audience, are the most valuable form of discussion,” he wrote.

Toynbee suggested two subjects for his assembly talk, “Does History Make Sense?” and “The Outlook for the West Today.” Dean Johnston indicated that no definite selection between the two has yet been made. Mrs. Toynbee will be accompanying her husband during the trip. During the past month, they have been at McGill College in Montreal and will be spending most of the next few months at the University of Pennsylvania, where Toynbee is a special guest this semester.

Present plans call for the Toynbees to arrive on the campus Sunday night, March 26. They will depart for Pennsylvania on Wednesday morning. The announcement of Toynbee’s visit means that the new program will bring a total of three distinguished speakers to Davidson this year. Dr. Harlow Shapley, professor emeritus of astronomy at Harvard, will deliver a series of lectures April 10-12. Eventually, income from the Reynolds Foundation gift of $100,000 will bring four to six speakers to the campus annually.

UNION DESKMAN Harry West prepares a display of EXODUS copies, on sale now. The YMCA Book-of-the-Year Committee is handling sales of the book to students, alumni, and the students at Queens. The program, which will include a visit by EXODUS’ author, Leon Uris, will begin next Thursday, when Dr. D. D. Rhodes will conduct an assembly program on the best-selling novel. (Davidsonian Photo By Wells).

FIRST HAND REPORT
Negro Demonstrators Tell Integration Views

By ROBERT L. MOORE and RICK Von UNWERTH

CHARLOTTE—Eighty-two Negro students from Johnson C. Smith University and two unidentified Quaker sympathizers protested Thursday afternoon. Students led by the Johnson C. Smith University Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee stood in line at the Carolina and Imperial theaters in an attempt to purchase tickets. The theater refused to sell tickets to the students, stating that it “didn’t have the facilities.” Charlie Jones, a graduate student at Johnson C. Smith, spearheaded the demonstration which lasted from two until four p.m. The Charlotte police did not interfere with the demonstrators except when the crowd of onlookers and sympathizers blocked the sidewalk.

In a DAVIDSONIAN interview, Charlie Jones said, “The racial discrimination in any public area of our corporate life in America is morally wrong and an evil in the sight of God.” Jones quipped, “Charlotte has separate movie theaters to provide for the differences which are apparent in that portion of the human race which happens to be Negro.”

F C To Award Trophy

The Interfraternity Council plans to present the Greek Week Trophy to the winning pledge class in chapel next Tuesday, announced IFC President Jerry Cole this week. The trophy will be awarded on the basis of points scored in competition with Homecoming displays, skits, and Greek Week projects. Judges for the trophy are Colonel Adams, who helped judge the Greek Week projects, Mrs. Moore, who helped decide the winner of the Homecoming displays, and Dr. Kelton, who helped judge the skits during Skit Night.

Davidson fraternities began their annual Greek Week activities Monday night with a Pledge Banquet sponsored by the IFC. Dr. Robert L. McLeod, executive secretary of Pi Kappa Alpha, addressed the fraternity presidents, pledge trainers, and pledges after dinner. During the week the different pledge classes underwent informal initiations and completed work projects which were entered into the interfraternity competition for the Greek Week Trophy. Wednesday night the pledge classes presented skits in Chambers Auditorium. The skits were judged on the basis of originality and performance. The pledge class which placed first in the Skit Night competition was Beta Theta Pi. Sigma Phi Epsilon placed second, Pi Kappa Phi came in third, and Alpha Tau Omega was fourth. Last October in competition with Homecoming displays, Sigma Phi Epsilon was second, Sigma Chi, fourth, and Beta Theta Pi and Phi Gamma Delta received honorable mention.

In commenting on Greek Week, John Kuykendall, the (Continued On Page Four)

Shue Requests OK To Petition Board

Henry Shue, Rhodes Scholar, has requested permission to present a statement to the Board of Trustees asking them to remove what he terms “the racially discriminatory stipulations of Davidson's admissions policy” when the board convenes here Feb. 15. Shue stressed the fact that he is not representing any group but is acting as an individual. He will not know until Feb. 15 whether he will be permitted to present his statement. He stated that he is not trying to stir up trouble, but that he feels that nothing is more important than that Davidson's admissions policy express “a Christian view of men.” “Courageous action by Davidson now could have a critical effect in the course of the history of southern education,” Shue explained. He said that his statement is a plea for leadership from Davidson College as a Christian institution.