**Corrected OCR Text:**

von UNWERTH ROU INDEPENDENT OPINION (See Page Two NDS UP) The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
BASEBALL TEAM OPENS HERE SATURDAY (See Page Three) VOL. XLIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1961 NUMBER
TWENTY-ONE Marshall, Wallace On Court | Freshmen Run Off Monday In the elections for the Honor Court today, Bob Marshall
and Bill Wallace were elected from the rising Junior Class. The freshmen that still remain to be run off are
Sam Glasgow, Charles Rowe, and Staff Warren. Thursday Jerry Bussell and Linton Wray were elected from the rising Senior Class.
Bob Marshall, a pre-med major from Winston-Salem, is a member of Phi Delta Theta. He is on the Quips and
Cranks staff, the track team, and last year served on the Freshman Council where he was chairman of the publicity
committee. Also a pre-med major, Bill Wallace is a member of Beta Theta Pi Fraternity. From Charlotte, he is presently
president of the Sophomore Class and has been on the soccer team. One of those elected from the rising Senior
Class, Jerry Bussell, from Lafayette, Ind., is another pre-med major and is now serving as first vice president of the
Student Council. A Phi Delta Theta, Bussell is publicity director of Scripts ‘n Pranks and is a member of the
basketball team. Linton Wray, a member of Sigma Delta Pi, Sigma Delta Psi, and has been on the track and
wrestling teams. From the Freshman Class, Charles Rowe, from Lynchburg, Va., is also a pre-med major and is a member
of Kappa Alpha, and is a member of the cross country team and is now serving on the Freshman Council.
A Phi Delta Theta from Chapel Hill, N. C., Stafford Warren is vice president of the Freshman Council and served
as president of his pledge class. Sam Glasgow is a Beta Theta Pi from Nashville, Tenn., and was on the
wrestling team. Glasgow is a pre-med major. The run-off for freshmen court members will be held Monday. YMCA elections will
begin Tuesday, following a speech by the presidential candidates in chapel Monday.

Funeral Services Funeral services were held Wednesday afternoon for Hugh Morton Grey, trustee and distinguished alumnus of Davidson. A member
of the Class of 1918, Grey belonged to the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and Omicron Delta Kappa. In addition, he
was one of the finest football guards ever to play at Davidson. In his senior year, he was selected to
the All-Southern squad and became the first Davidson player in history to be chosen for All-America honors. He was also
made a member of Davidson's All-Time Football Team. In 1920, Grey returned here for a three-year stint as head football
coach, and guided Davidson teams to upset victories over Georgia Tech, Furman, and VPI. He was also responsible for the
introduction of wrestling into Davidson’s intercollegiate sports program. At the time of his death, he was visiting his son, Hugh
Grey, Jr., in Venice, Florida.

Ex-Davidson Prof Returns Next Year Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, who is now associate professor of psychology at the Medical College
of Virginia, is returning to Davidson next year, where he will be associate professor of education and psychology. Dr. Ostwalt’s
resignation will be effective July 1. Ostwalt resigned his position as associate professor of education and director of student counseling
last year to go to MCV. He is returning to Davidson to teach full time. A ‘35 cum laude graduate
of Davidson, Ostwalt received his MA and PhD degrees in educational psychology and psychology from Duke. The formal student counseling
program was set up here at Davidson by Ostwalt when he came here in 1948, after teaching at Duke and
Flora McDonald. From 1941 to 1946, Dr. Ostwalt served in the Air Force, 19 months of which were spent in
the Southwest Pacific area. He was acting chief of military personnel, Far East Air Service Command. Ostwalt, who is now
a colonel in the Air Force Reserve, has received the Bronze Star and two battle stars. Dr. Ostwalt is married
to the former Adeline Hill, of Jackson, Miss.

Faculty Approves Plan For Humanities Course Integrated Study Lasts Two Years; Starts in ‘62 By KNOX ABERNETHY Davidsonian Staff Writer
Thursday afternoon, the faculty adopted a recommendation to set up an interdepartmental course in the Humanities. The course will be
inaugurated in September of 1962, and will comprise two years of study for a total of 24 hours, or six
hours each semester. The course will emphasize the areas of religion, literature, history, philosophy, and the arts, and various departments
will participate in their respective areas. The purposes outlined by the Curriculum Committee for the course were “based on the
belief that the fullest possible understanding of western traditions should be a major goal of contemporary liberal education.” Accordingly, the
course will be arranged on a chronological basis, with a study, in depth, of key historical events, social, economic, and
political institutions, literature, and art (sculpture, architecture, painting, and music), philosophical ideas, and religious practices and beliefs of the particular
periods.” In the specific areas, credit will be given as follows: six hours for history; nine hours for English, nine
hours for philosophy and religion. The faculty team will be made up of professors from the various departments, and plans
are being made for lectures to the entire group with discussion groups of 15 students each. The course will be
designed to help the student relate meaningfully both to his heritage and to the present by assessing the significance of
the landmarks of the past, both for their own times and for him, so that he may understand the possibilities
of his intelligent participation in the affairs of his time, and to improve his skill in written and oral communication
and his understanding of the art of language, as basic to the other objectives.”

Committee Forms, Deals With Congolese Question By DON SAUNDERS Davidsonian Managing Editor A newly-formed committee to deal with the Congolese
student question at Davidson last night heard President D. Grier Martin read a letter from the Presbyterian Board of World
Missions stating that the Board may not be asking Davidson to take any Congolese next year. This was one of
the developments which Dr. Martin presented to a joint student-faculty-townspeople group, meeting for the first time last night in the
Phi Delt house. Dr. D. D. Rhodes, professor of philosophy and religion, is chairman of the 23-member committee, formed this
week. CHIEF RESPONSIBILITY Rhodes outlined to the committee its chief responsibility: “to seek the means of making the admission of
the Congolese successful in the broadest sense for the students themselves, the college, and the community. Whether for next fall
or the following fall, the work of this committee must be done anyway,” said Rhodes. “The Congolese will be coming;
the only question is when.” Seventeen members of the committee attended the first meeting. Dr. Martin, in filling in background
material on the present situation, read a number of letters written by Mr. Eugene Daniel, executive secretary of World Missions.
Daniel in his first letter, sent to many southern Presbyterian colleges, stressed the “dearth of adequately trained leaders” in the
Congo, and described the educational system which has been set up by the Presbyterian Church to provide elementary and secondary
education for the native Congolese. PRESIDENTS ASKED Martin has written Daniel that he feels two students should be admitted the
first year. Martin estimated that “there is a 50-50 chance we will get at least two Congolese next year.” The
new committee will be broken down in subcommittees to look into opportunities for gaining further information on the likely problems
to arise in dormitory life, student activities (including community relations), and faculty and staff orientation. Representing community opinion will be
Mrs. J. Rutledge Withers, a former winner of the Algernon Sydney Sullivan award for service to Davidson; and Mr. William
Ward, associated with Duke Power Co. Pastors of three local churches are also on the 23-member committee. CHIEF RESPONSIBILITY Rhodes
outlined to the committee its chief responsibility: “to seek the means of making the admission of the Congolese successful in
the broadest sense for the students themselves, the college, and the community. Whether for next fall or the following fall,
the work of this committee must be done anyway,” said Rhodes. “The Congolese will be coming; the only question is
when.” Seventeen members of the committee attended the first meeting. Dr. Martin, in filling in background material on the present
situation, read a number of letters written by Mr. Eugene Daniel, executive secretary of World Missions. Daniel in his first
letter, sent to many southern Presbyterian colleges, stressed the “dearth of adequately trained leaders” in the Congo, and described the
educational system which has been set up by the Presbyterian Church to provide elementary and secondary education for the native
Congolese. PRESIDENTS ASKED Martin has written Daniel that he feels two students should be admitted the first year. Martin estimated
that “there is a 50-50 chance we will get at least two Congolese next year.” The new committee will be
broken down in subcommittees to look into opportunities for gaining further information on the likely problems to arise in dormitory
life, student activities (including community relations), and faculty and staff orientation. Representing community opinion will be Mrs. J. Rutledge Withers,
a former winner of the Algernon Sydney Sullivan award for service to Davidson; and Mr. William Ward, associated with Duke
Power Co. Pastors of three local churches are also on the 23-member committee. CHIEF RESPONSIBILITY Rhodes outlined to the committee
its chief responsibility: “to seek the means of making the admission of the Congolese successful in the broadest sense for
the students themselves, the college, and the community. Whether for next fall or the following fall, the work of this
committee must be done anyway,” said Rhodes. “The Congolese will be coming; the only question is when.” Seventeen members of
the committee attended the first meeting. Dr. Martin, in filling in background material on the present situation, read a number
of letters written by Mr. Eugene Daniel, executive secretary of World Missions. Daniel in his first letter, sent to many
southern Presbyterian colleges, stressed the “dearth of adequately trained leaders” in the Congo, and described the educational system which has
been set up by the Presbyterian Church to provide elementary and secondary education for the native Congolese. PRESIDENTS ASKED Martin
has written Daniel that he feels two students should be admitted the first year. Martin estimated that “there is a
50-50 chance we will get at least two Congolese next year.” The new committee will be broken down in subcommittees
to look into opportunities for gaining further information on the likely problems to arise in dormitory life, student activities (including
community relations), and faculty and staff orientation. Representing community opinion will be Mrs. J. Rutledge Withers, a former winner of
the Algernon Sydney Sullivan award for service to Davidson; and Mr. William Ward, associated with Duke Power Co. Pastors of
three local churches are also on the 23-member committee. CHIEF RESPONSIBILITY Rhodes outlined to the committee its chief responsibility: “to
seek the means of making the admission of the Congolese successful in the broadest sense for the students themselves, the
college, and the community. Whether for next fall or the following fall, the work of this committee must be done
anyway,” said Rhodes. “The Congolese will be coming; the only question is when.” Seventeen members of the committee attended the
first meeting. Dr. Martin, in filling in background material on the present situation, read a number of letters written by
Mr. Eugene Daniel, executive secretary of World Missions. Daniel in his first letter, sent to many southern Presbyterian colleges, stressed
the “dearth of adequately trained leaders” in the Congo, and described the educational system which has been set up by
the Presbyterian Church to provide elementary and secondary education for the native Congolese. PRESIDENTS ASKED Martin has written Daniel that
he feels two students should be admitted the first year. Martin estimated that “there is a 50-50 chance we will
get at least two Congolese next year.” The new committee will be broken down in subcommittees to look into opportunities
for gaining further information on the likely problems to arise in dormitory life, student activities (including community relations), and faculty
and staff orientation. Representing community opinion will be Mrs. J. Rutledge Withers, a former winner of the Algernon Sydney Sullivan
award for service to Davidson; and Mr. William Ward, associated with Duke Power Co. Pastors of three local churches are
also on the 23-member committee. CHIEF RESPONSIBILITY Rhodes outlined to the committee its chief responsibility: “to seek the means of
making the admission of the Congolese successful in the broadest sense for the students themselves, the college, and the community.
Whether for next fall or the following fall, the work of this committee must be done anyway,” said Rhodes. “The
Congolese will be coming; the only question is when.” Seventeen members of the committee attended the first meeting. Dr. Martin,
in filling in background material on the present situation, read a number of letters written by Mr. Eugene Daniel, executive
secretary of World Missions. Daniel in his first letter, sent to many southern Presbyterian colleges, stressed the “dearth of adequately
trained leaders” in the Congo, and described the educational system which has been set up by the Presbyterian Church to
provide elementary and secondary education for the native Congolese. PRESIDENTS ASKED Martin has written Daniel that he feels two students
should be admitted the first year. Martin estimated that “there is a 50-50 chance we will get at least two
Congolese next year.” The new committee will be broken down in subcommittees to look into opportunities for gaining further information
on the likely problems to arise in dormitory life, student activities (including community relations), and faculty and staff orientation. Representing
community opinion will be Mrs. J. Rutledge Withers, a former winner of the Algernon Sydney Sullivan award for service to
Davidson; and Mr. William Ward, associated with Duke Power Co. Pastors of three local churches are also on the 23-member
committee. CHIEF RESPONSIBILITY Rhodes outlined to the committee its chief responsibility: “to seek the means of making the admission of
the Congolese successful in the broadest sense for the students themselves, the college, and the community. Whether for next fall
or the following fall, the work of this committee must be done anyway,” said Rhodes. “The Congolese will be coming;
the only question is when.” Seventeen members of the committee attended the first meeting. Dr. Martin, in filling in background
material on the present situation, read a number of letters written by Mr. Eugene Daniel, executive secretary of World Missions.
Daniel in his first letter, sent to many southern Presbyterian colleges, stressed the “dearth of adequately trained leaders” in the
Congo, and described the educational system which has been set up by the Presbyterian Church to provide elementary and secondary
education for the native Congolese. PRESIDENTS ASKED Martin has written Daniel that he feels two students should be admitted the
first year. Martin estimated that “there is a 50-50 chance we will get at least two Congolese next year.” The
new committee will be broken down in subcommittees to look into opportunities for gaining further information on the likely problems
to arise in dormitory life, student activities (including community relations), and faculty and staff orientation. Representing community opinion will be
Mrs. J. Rutledge Withers, a former winner of the Algernon Sydney Sullivan award for service to Davidson; and Mr. William
Ward, associated with Duke Power Co. Pastors of three local churches are also on the 23-member committee. CHIEF RESPONSIBILITY Rhodes
outlined to the committee its chief responsibility: “to seek the means of making the admission of the Congolese successful in
the broadest sense for the students themselves, the college, and the community. Whether for next fall or the following fall,
the work of this committee must be done anyway,” said Rhodes. “The Congolese will be coming; the only question is
when.” Seventeen members of the committee attended the first meeting. Dr. Martin, in filling in background material on the present
situation, read a number of letters written by Mr. Eugene Daniel, executive secretary of World Missions. Daniel in his first
letter, sent to many southern Presbyterian colleges, stressed the “dearth of adequately trained leaders” in the Congo, and described the
educational system which has been set up by the Presbyterian Church to provide elementary and secondary education for the native
Congolese. PRESIDENTS ASKED Martin has written Daniel that he feels two students should be admitted the first year. Martin estimated
that “there is a 50-50 chance we will get at least two Congolese next year.” The new committee will be
broken down in subcommittees to look into opportunities for gaining further information on the likely problems to arise in dormitory
life, student activities (including community relations), and faculty and staff orientation. Representing community opinion will be Mrs. J. Rutledge Withers,
a former winner of the Algernon Sydney Sullivan award for service to Davidson; and Mr. William Ward, associated with Duke
Power Co. Pastors of three local churches are also on the 23-member committee. CHIEF RESPONSIBILITY Rhodes outlined to the committee
its chief responsibility: “to seek the means of making the admission of the Congolese successful in the broadest sense for
the students themselves, the college, and the community. Whether for next fall or the following fall, the work of this
committee must be done anyway,” said Rhodes. “The Congolese will be coming; the only question is when.” Seventeen members of
the committee attended the first meeting. Dr. Martin, in filling in background material on the present situation, read a number
of letters written by Mr. Eugene Daniel, executive secretary of World Missions. Daniel in his first letter, sent to many
southern Presbyterian colleges, stressed the “dearth of adequately trained leaders” in the Congo, and described the educational system which has
been set up by the Presbyterian Church to provide elementary and secondary education for the native Congolese. PRESIDENTS ASKED Martin
has written Daniel that he feels two students should be admitted the first year. Martin estimated that “there is a
50-50 chance we will get at least two Congolese next year.” The new committee will be broken down in subcommittees
to look into opportunities for gaining further information on the likely problems to arise in dormitory life, student activities (including
community relations), and faculty and staff orientation. Representing community opinion will be Mrs. J. Rutledge Withers, a former winner of
the Algernon Sydney Sullivan award for service to Davidson; and Mr. William Ward, associated with Duke Power Co. Pastors of
three local churches are also on the 23-member committee. CHIEF RESPONSIBILITY Rhodes outlined to the committee its chief responsibility: “to
seek the means of making the admission of the Congolese successful in the broadest sense for the students themselves, the
college, and the community. Whether for next fall or the following fall, the work of this committee must be done
anyway,” said Rhodes. “The Congolese will be coming; the only question is when.” Seventeen members of the committee attended the
first meeting. Dr. Martin, in filling in background material onstudents quest. each. “Any written work handed in signed by the
student is considered to be pledged work,” Lacy said.

The original recommendations were drawn up by a special subcommittee, which was composed of Professors Max Polley, Dan Rhodes, George
Labban, J. S. Purcell, and George Abernethy. Dean Frontis Johnston and President D. Grier Martin sat in on most of
the deliberations.

“All tests are considered pledged work as are all labs, including language lab, unless the instructor states otherwise. Any kind
of book report is pledged, and this also covers term papers.”

“The Lottery,” “Escurial,” “The Devil and Daniel Webster,” and “Dark Lady of the Sonnets,” will advance to the district contest
in Charlotte on March 17 and 18. The plays were given Monday and Tuesday nights, and criticisms and ratings were
given by the audience. “Dark Lady of the Sonnets” was at first eliminated, but the Vagabonds have now found that
all five plays can be presented.

Two of the plays were presented this afternoon in the contest at East Mecklenburg High School. “The Devil and Daniel
Webster” was presented at 1:20, and “Dark Lady of the Sonnets” at 4:30. Tomorrow “The Lottery” will be given at
11:30 am, “Second Shepherd’s Play” at 2:45, and “Escurial” at 8:30.

Written and first produced in the 15th century, “The Second Shepherd’s Play” is a Christmas farce, whose mood changes abruptly
from farcical to sacred midway in the play. It stars Prof. Ernest Patterson and Bob Murphy.

Masquers Present “The Lottery” and “Escurial,” which finished second and third respectively, both create a mood of horror by distorting
life to exaggerate man’s infirmity. “The Lottery” attacks the practice of choosing a scapegoat for his sins, while “Escurial” presents
a view of absolute evil conquering the last ray of good. The former stars Mrs. Grace Lilly, Pat O'Neal, Dick
Forrester, and Prof. Pat Elliott. “Escurial” stars Neal Bushoven and Frank Gohlke.

“The Devil and Daniel Webster,” which is produced by the Phi Delta fraternity, was the fourth qualifier. The play, adapted
from Stephen Vincent Benet’s story, depicts Daniel Webster's oratorical battle to save a friend who has sold his soul to
the Devil. It stars Sy Sargent, Don Stowell, Woody Brown, Charles Rivers, Danenhower, and Marjorie Stewart White.

The Red and Black Masquers will present “The Glass Menagerie” by Tennessee Williams on April 26 in connection with the
Fine Arts Festival, George Johnson, president of the Masquers, has announced. The play, which will be presented in Chambers Auditorium,
is the drama aspect of the Fine Arts Festival, whose theme this year is “The South’s Contribution to Contemporary Arts.”
The time for try-outs will be announced later, as the director has not yet been named.

The play, which is a psychological drama, has four main characters: the male lead, his mother, his sister, and a
gentleman who calls on the sister. The sister has a collection of glass animals and from this the play gets
its name.

Daniel asked the presidents of these various colleges about the possibility of taking some of these mission-trained students. After consideration
by Davidson’s Executive Committee, the matter was taken to the Board of Trustees, which, on Feb. 15, voted to take
up to three Congolese students on recommendation of the Missions Board if they are able to meet Davidson’s admissions requirements.
Since that time, Dr. Martin has received notice from Daniel.

Chorus Schedules 27th Annual Tour

The Male Chorus will leave Davidson on Saturday morning, April 8, on their 27th annual singing tour, which this year
will include most of the Atlantic seaboard states. This annual tour by the Male Chorus has in the past years
covered some 28 states, including such places as Michigan, Missouri, and Texas. This year a new state, Massachusetts, will be
added to their list.

The chorus will start their tour by singing Saturday at Women’s College at Greensboro. On Sunday night they will appear
at the Chevy Chase Presbyterian Church in Chevy Chase, Md., a suburb of Washington. Next, they will go to Princeton,
N. J. to sing at Princeton Seminary on Monday night. Their chartered bus will take them all the way to
Danvers, Mass., for their Tuesday night performance.

At least one Congolese student has been admitted.

FIVE SUBCOMMITTEES

In response to a request by a separate subcommittee to investigate special problems (fraternities), athletics, community, and research papers. Fraternity
spot boxes do not break the Honor System, Lacy said. However, professors should realize the existence of spot boxes and
should make out tests accordingly. Professors are asked to give students their definitions of pledged work and make it in
accordance with the Honor System.

Lacy explained that unless it is specifically stated by the professor, students get the idea work is unpledged. “Honor is
a spirit and has to be a part of each student,” Lacy said. “And if this is not fulfilled, there
is no need for an Honor System.”

Olympics, Brubeck, Ball Are Miniature Weekend

Saturday, March 25, will be a weekend in miniature on the Davidson campus, with the Davidson-Queens Olympics, the Dave Brubeck
Quartet concert, and the Military Ball all scheduled for that day.

The first event of the day will be the second annual Davidson-Queens Olympics, to be held at 2:30 in the
football stadium. This will feature Queens sororities competing in such events as tricycle races, pie eating contests (no hands), chicken
catching contests, and baseball bat races. A special surprise event will be announced at the Olympics. Members of Davidson and
Queens faculties also will vie in a scooter race.

A highlight of the afternoon will be the judging for the Sexiest Man on Campus, for which each fraternity will
nominate a candidate. The cost for the Olympics is 50 cents per person. Proceeds will go to the Holy Angel
Nursery in Belmont, an interdenominational home for mentally retarded and physically handicapped children under six. The nursery is supported entirely
by individual contributions, and the donation from the Olympics is needed to make possible an expansion of the facility so
it can accommodate 25 children, instead of its present 15.

Following the Olympics, the Dave Brubeck concert will be held in Chambers Auditorium from 7:30 to 9:30. Dress will be
informal. This will be the second visit to Davidson for the Brubeck group, who have played everywhere from Carnegie Hall
to the Newport Jazz Festival and who have been Playboy magazine's choice for the “best jazz combo in the nation”
for the past two years. Brubeck will be the last in a series of three concerts presented by the IFC
this year. The first two were the Four Freshmen and the Weavers.

Completing the day will be the Military Ball in the Johnston Gymnasium, with music furnished by the Delicardos. Time for
the dance will be 9:30 to 12, and the cost will be $1.50 per couple.

The main event of the dance will be the commissioning of the Honorary Cadet Colonel, who will be one of
six finalists chosen from nominations by MS IV cadets. She and five members of her court will be escorted under
the traditional sabre arch.
