PAGE FOUR

FOR THE PAST TWO Tuesdays, ROTC students have been receiving shots at the college infirmary in preparation for summer camp. This will continue for one more Tuesday. Summer camp is to be held at Fort Bragg from June 17 to July 28. Above, Tommy Harris receives one of the series of shots required of all cadets attending summer camp. (Davidsonian Photo By Wells)

The Perennial Clash: Freshmen Vs. Sophs
BY JIMMY WILLIAMS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Two fine examples of the continuing freshman-sophomore rivalry are the “Great Davidson Trunk Tragedy” and the famed “War of 1902.”

The Davidson “Trunk Tragedy” occurred in 1890 and was the result of a colossal blunder on the part of some obscure faculty member. The story is particularly pertinent amidst today’s student grumblings about a crowded examination schedule. It seems that some astute faculty member had sat up late into the night figuring out a Christmas examination schedule which allowed freshmen to leave school two whole days before their sophomore brethren.

SOPHS FIGHT BACK
The sophomores arose in indignation. The freshmen were due to leave Monday afternoon. But while they were blissfully eating supper Sunday night, a well-organized sophomore detachment trucked the already packed trunks out of the freshmen dorm and into wagons waiting behind Old Chambers. Then they spirited the luggage to a farm some miles away.

Hengeveld Reveals Registration Date
In approximately one week, students will begin receiving copies of a notice about registering for classes for next year. With this notice, there will be a card which should be filled out as it will be needed by the students when they register. These letters concerning registration will be sent out when the bulletin of the Courses of Instruction is received and becomes available for students in the registrar's office. This bulletin

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Martin Will Head New Cheerleaders
The new Student Council has named Joe Martin head cheerleader for the 1961-62 school year. Martin has chosen as cheerleaders Randy Austin, John Harris, Bill Kepter, Sam Clark, Hal Maloney, Charlie Safley, Pat Rush, and Walter Eckman. He also indicated that he has begun making plans to improve school spirit. He said that all pre-1940 graduates of Davidson recognize the “Fight Song” as the traditional school song even more so than the alma mater. Furthermore, he said that many people consider the “Fight Song” one of the best college songs in the country. Martin hopes to be able to revive this song next year. Martin plans to revise some of the traditional Davidson cheers which distinguish it from other colleges. Next year, the cheerleaders will assume responsibility for interest and attendance at all sports events, giving more emphasis to minor sports.

Student Clarinetist Will Present Recital
Charles Hargis, a member of the Junior Class, will present a clarinet recital at 4 p.m. Sunday in the Morrison Room of the College Union. Hargis will be assisted by Professor David Richey and Ted Scarboro, clarinetist.

West Leaves For Position As St. Andrews Professor
Assistant Professor of Music James F. West will leave Davidson at the end of this semester to join the faculty of the newly formed St. Andrews Presbyterian College in Laurinburg. West has been teaching at Davidson for the last six years and has served as the leader of the Piedmont Youth Orchestra. While the exact future of the orchestra without West is uncertain, there is a possibility that it will be sponsored by the Charlotte Symphony. He will become associate professor of music in the Conservatory of Music at St. Andrews. In a DAVIDSONIAN interview, West said, “It will be a great personal challenge to me to organize an instrumental program at a new college with no tradition or previous standards. I am very glad to be on the ground floor in helping to build an institution.” Professor West said that he would form an organization similar to the Youth Orchestra in Laurinburg and that St. Andrews would add to his teaching load.

Johnston Attends NCAA Conference
Dr. Frontis Johnston, dean of the faculty, flew to Washington, D.C. last Sunday night to attend the regular April meeting of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Returning Monday for a meeting of the Duke Endowment Trustees, Dr. Johnston stated that the meeting of the NCAA was routine, and that nothing out of order was discussed. Dr. Johnston returned Tuesday night to Washington for further sessions of the NCAA. Thursday morning he flew to

Man-Tan
A PLACE IN THE SUN is becoming popular with Davidson students. With the advent of warm weather, students have begun their annual sunbathing. Above, Lou Jones, Bob Porter, and two other students relax on the lawn in front of Belk. At right, Terry Van Huss basks in the sun. (Davidsonian photo by Lafferty.)

Theft In Gym
(Continued From Page One)
The loot was locked in a lumber house. The pirates returned, and it was now the freshmen’s time for righteous indignation. One particularly outraged individual even went to Walter L. Lingle, then a student at the college, and asked to borrow a pistol.

FRESHMEN STRANDED
However, there was nothing the flustered frosh could do. They didn't get to leave Monday nor the following Tuesday. Wednesday morning, someone found a note on the bulletin board saying that the missing trunks were in the Infirmary rooms in the north end of Elm Row. The freshmen and the smiling sophomores all left together Wednesday afternoon.

“WAR OF ‘02”
It would seem that rivalry has always existed between the two classes. In 1902, the freshmen, having defeated the sophomores in a baseball game, painted the score on the pillars of the Chambers building. To further complicate the situation, the sophomores were locked out of their dorms after their annual banquet. When they reached their rooms, they found them ransacked by the fast-moving freshmen. The outraged sophomores finally cornered the whole class on the second floor of the old Spencer house. After several hours of conferences, the freshmen agreed to submit to “one lick around” on the condition that hazing, which had been going on for some five months, would be terminated.is expected to arrive this weekend and should be an aid to students as they decide on courses for next year. In a DAVIDSONIAN interview, F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar, stated that registration should begin on May 1st and end on the 15th. After the registration notices are sent out, freshmen will register with their freshmen advisors. Sophomores and juniors will register with any member of the department of their major.

No fees will be required for this registration. The courses signed up for will be subject to change by students without penalty until Sept. 1, 1961. After this date, students will not be able to change their courses except under extraordinary circumstances.

Faculty sor a holiday. The request was granted and the War of '02 was over.

— CLOTHES STORAGE —
Don’t worry about carrying your clothes home for the summer. See Jackson Cleaners about cleaning and moth-proofing and storage.
JACKSON CLEANERS
No. Main St.

Finally, some enterprising student hit upon the idea of asking the netist. Hargis was soloist with the Concert Band this year on tour in the Rimsky-Korsakov “Concerto for Clarinet.” He is secretary-historian of the band, a member of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity, and belongs to Sigma Nu social fraternity. West’s successor has been chosen. However, final approval is pending.

Banquet Honors Wilson Scholars
The banquet honoring the winners of the Woodrow Wilson Scholarships will be held Monday at 1 p.m. Dr. Roger P. McCutcheon, the Southern Coordinator of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, will be the guest speaker. Monday afternoon, a program will be presented in the Morrison Room of the Union by Dr. McCutcheon at 4:30, and at 5:15 information will be offered to interested students on competitive scholarship programs for graduate schools concerning preparation for the school or department, interviews, letters of reference, and applications.

INTERVIEWS
Dr. McCutcheon will also be available for personal interviews on Monday between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. The activities will honor the nine Davidson winners of the scholarships who are Jim Anderson, Charles Cornwell, Hansford Epes, Elwood Hartman, Henry MacFadyen, Norris MacKinnon, Spiro Macris, Henry Shue, and Peter Kellogg, a member of last year’s senior class. Last year, eight Davidson seniors won Wilson grants. This year, Davidson ranks third among the top six colleges in the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Region V, which includes Delaware, Maryland, District of Columbia, West Virginia, Virginia, and North Carolina.

Of the colleges in this area, others with a high number of winners are Duke University with 17, Georgetown University with 12, the University of North Carolina with eight, and John Hopkins University and William and Mary College with six each.

In Charlotte, It’s THE STARLIGHT ROOM
For Fine Food
Steaks And Lobsters Are The Chef's Specialty
Entertainment
2115 N. Tryon
Call ED 3-7144 For Reservations

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Dallas, Texas for a meeting of the Centennial Committee of the Presbyterian Church. From Dallas, Dr. Johnston will fly back to Washington, with a day’s stop at Davidson, May 3, for a meeting with the Southern Conference on May 4 and 5.

Vespers Features Dr. Clem Bininger
Dr. Clem E. Bininger will speak at Vespers Sunday night. Dr. Bininger, presently pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, has served congregations in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Missouri, and Virginia. A graduate of Centre College in Kentucky, he did his theological work at Princeton. While at Centre College, Dr. Bininger was an outstanding athlete, and in 1956 was selected for the SPORTS ILLUSTRATED Silver Anniversary All-Star football team. Currently, he is international president of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity.

Cords, and London Fog jackets are prime targets. “The worst stealing occurs at chapel period, during drill, and at mealtime,” Wellford continued. Another member of the court has said that students can cut down on the thefts by closing their room doors before drill, chapel periods, and meals. Lacy mentioned several instances this year when students waited a few days before reporting stolen property to the court, therefore making it almost impossible to trace the theft. Wellford urged students to help the court enforce the honor system by reporting all stolen items immediately to him. In reference to the increase in thefts during the past year and especially those this week, Wellford stressed that enforcement of the honor system must be a cooperative movement, for no amount of Honor Court sleuthing alone can eliminate the present widespread stealing on campus.

COCA-COLA AND COKE ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS
BETWEEN FRIENDS... There’s nothing like a Coke!
Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Renew your subscription now so that you may receive all next year’s DAVIDSONIANs beginning with the first issue next September. Don’t miss important campus news. Only $3.00
Name
Address
City
—I Enclose Three Dollars
—Bill Me Later
The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N. C.

YOU CAN HELP- HE J - HERE
Your vote may send your favorites on his way to Hollywood (with aid, of course) for a date with one of the lovely gals who will soon appear on motion picture screens all over America!