ADVISOR STONE LEADS ‘HIS BOYS’ (See Page Two) VOL. L

The dedication next week of the John R. Cunningham Fine Arts Center climaxes the building phase of Davidson's current ten-year building program, which began in 1957. The dedication is set for Thursday, with registration from 9 to 10 a.m. for off-campus guests, including alumni leaders and members of the drama, music, and art departments from colleges and universities throughout the area.

CUNNINGHAM

The building is named for Dr. John R. Cunningham, president emeritus of Davidson, who led the school from 1941 through 1957 and is now president of the Presbyterian Foundation. In his 16 years as president, Cunningham guided the college to progress with a strong program during the college’s ten-year plan. The dedication service will take place at 10:20 in the Fine Arts Quadrangle. Dr. John A. Redhead, minister of the First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro, will give the invocation, after which the Male Chorus will sing, and distinguished guests, including Dr. Cunningham and Charles A. Dana, a major contributor, will be recognized. Dana will be the guest of President and Mrs. D. Grier Martin Wednesday and Thursday.

LITANY

President Martin and Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, will lead the audience in a dedicatory litany, especially prepared by Dr. George Staples, college chaplain. Dr. Cunningham will give the benediction.

Who's Who? 18 From D.C. Help Answer Question

Eighteen Davidson seniors have been selected for this year’s Who's Who among Students in American Colleges and Universities. These students were chosen by a committee made up of three faculty members and three students. The students on the committee are taken from students who, in the opinion of the Dean of Students, have a good overall knowledge of the senior class. The selections are then submitted to the publication known as Who's Who among Students in American Colleges and Universities. The purpose of Who's Who is “to single out the outstanding leaders of our educational institutions across the nation.”

Students chosen include:

Reb Abernethy is a pre-med major from Charlotte and a member of Beta Theta Pi. He is editor of Quips and Cranks and a member of AED, honorary medical fraternity.

Jerry Bussell is a pre-med major from Lafayette, Ind., and a member of Phi Delta Theta. Bussell has served as First Vice-President of the Student Council and is on the Honor Court.

David Gilmour, a pre-med major from Charlotte, is a member of Beta Theta Pi and is serving as president of ODK, honorary leadership fraternity. He is also a member of the cross-country team and the Honor Court.

R. D. Jackson, from Jacksonville, Fla., is a pre-med major. He is secretary of ATO and editor of Scripts and Pranks.

David Jordan is a history major from Richmond, Va. He is editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and is a member of ODK.

Frank Mansell, from Vicksburg, Va., is a member of Sigma Nu. He is a pre-ministerial and president of the YMCA.

O. G. Martin, from Davidson, is a member of SAE. He is serving on the Honor Court and will be captain of this year's basketball team.

Joe Martin is an English major from Columbia, S. C., and is president of Beta Theta Pi. He is also serving as head cheerleader.

Duncan Morton from Charlotte, is a member of Kappa Sigma. He is president of the Senior Class and also a member of the football team.

Joe Robinson, from Lenoir, is a member of Phi Delta Theta. He is president of the Concert Band and has been chairman of the Book-of-the-Year.

Gerry Shelton, a Bible major from Logan, W. Va., is a member of KA. He is a member of the baseball team and president of the College Union.

Bob Stone is a business major from Greensboro. He is Freshman Advisor and serves as president of Kappa Sigma.

George Trask from Beaufort, S. C., is a member of KA. He has served as Second Vice-President of the Student Council and is currently serving as Student Body President.

Nat Watson is from Greenwood, S. C. He has served on the Student Council and is currently president of KA.

Bob Waugh is a member of Beta Theta Pi from Bethesda, Md. He is a pre-med major, currently serving as president of the Interfraternity Council.

Harrison Wellford from Charlotte, is serving as Judge of the Honor Court. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta, the soccer team, and he holds the highest grades in the Senior Class.

Lewis Zirkle, from Blacksburg, Va., is president of Phi Gam. He is a member of the football team and AED, honorary medical fraternity.

Board Of Visitors Meets Next Week

On Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 25-26, the Board of Visitors will hold its annual session on the Davidson campus for the purpose of reviewing the college program. The Board will meet for its first closed session at 2:30 p.m. Wednesday at which time the new members will be announced. That evening the board members, with the administration and faculty, will attend a special performance at the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. An informal reception at the home of President Martin will follow.

On Thursday morning the second closed session will follow a breakfast with faculty representatives. Afterwards, the Board will be present for the dedication service and open house at the fine arts building at 10 a.m. A luncheon honoring Dr. Cunningham will complete the schedule.

Dr. Peyre Schedules Busy 2-Day Program

Dr. Henri Peyre, the first Reynolds Lecturer for October, 1959. The Presser Foundation donated the Music Library which is named in honor of them.

‘Gala’ Performances Launch New Building

Mascot Gets Name-- Peter Ney Lives On!

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Our wildcat is no longer nameless! What is more, he has a French name. From theHistorical background suggestion by Dr. Chalmers Davidson, the DAVIDSONIAN’s committee selected the mascot’s official name: “The Marshal, Peter Stuart Ney II.” The French nickname for Ney—“The Bravest of the Brave”—also applies to our cat. The committee, composed of the editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN, President D. Grier Martin, and Head Cheerleader Joe Martin, narrowed the entries down to two. A submission of “Felix V” was the other entry that vied for the position of winner. Had that name won, the wildcat would have been the only fifth on campus. Significantly, he arrived in a cognac case. The other three live Davidson mascots were named Felix I, II, and III, and a stuffed one in 1918 first suggested the name Wildcats. But the dignity connotated by this year will be at Davidson Oct. 23 to 26. His main campus activities will take place on Tuesday and Wednesday. 

Tuesday, Dr. Peyre will meet with Prof. Ghigo’s French 41 class second period in 218 Chambers. During assembly period, he will address the student body on “A French Professor’s View of American Education”; a coffee and reception will follow in the Morrison Room of the College Union.

COFFEE HOUR

After lunch with Dr. George B. Watts, former Davidson professor of French, there will be a coffee hour for Dr. Peyre with the faculty in the Morrison Room of the Union. Dr. Peyre will eat dinner in the private dining room of the Union with the Reynolds Committee and the Department of French before delivering his lecture in the Morrison Room. His subject for 8 p.m. Tuesday is “Can Literature be Sincere?” An informal discussion will follow this lecture.

CHAPEL PERIOD

During chapel period Wednesday, Dr. Peyre will conduct an open discussion on “A French View of Russia and West Europe”; this discussion will be in the Morrison Room of the Union. Before meeting with the French Department and Le Cercle Francais later Wednesday afternoon, Dr. Peyre will be at a lunch and open house at the ATO house; the topic for discussion will be “Existentialism and French Literature.” After dinner with the Board of Visitors in the Union, Dr. Peyre will be the guest of the college at the performance in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

The pep rally last Thursday, and the nickname associated with Ney were the key factors that led the committee to decide as it did. His name will probably be shortened to “The Marshal” or just “Pete” in common reference. The name on the cat’s cage will feature “The Marshal,” with “Peter Stuart Ney, II” written under it. Then will probably be added the apt term “The Bravest of the Brave.” Dr. Davidson also relayed Marshal Ney’s “frenchy” nickname for our “Marshal”—le Vieux Pierre Rouge, given him because of his red hair.

At the half of tomorrow’s game with VMI, the mascot will officially be christened. “The Marshal” not only now has a name, but he has risen to a position of wealth and fame. Head Cheerleader Martin announced that so far a total of $249.84 has been collected for the cat. Students gave $56.34 and fans at the Homecoming Game donated $193.50. “Response at the game was really outstanding,” Martin said. “We had 50 one-dollar bills thrown at us. There must have been an Englishman somewhere in the crowd, too; we also had a shipping cost, traveling cage, and most of his pen.”

“We will go through the stands for the last time at the VMI game to try and get enough money to finish the pen and cover his food and medical expense,” he said. Martin felt that the cat might need quite a bit of medical care at first, until he adapts to this climate. “The Marshal” will appear at the VMI game in a borrowed trailer, but Martin feels sure that he will be able to have a trailer of his own ready for next Saturday's game in Richmond. The wildcat has had his fame spread throughout the East by newspapers affiliated with the Associated Press. Radio also got into the picture last week, as stations in (Continued On Page Four).

On hand to witness the citation will be members of the Wildcat Club that are on campus for their annual meeting and the football game. Club members are alumni who pay dues of ten dollars a year for the support of athletics at the college.

WILDCAT CLUB

The Wildcat Club meeting will be held tomorrow at 11:00 a.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union. The members will hear reports from Dr. Tom Scott, Director of Athletics; Head Football Coach Bill Dole; and Charles (Lefty) Driesell, Head Basketball Coach. After the reports, the club will elect officers for the coming year. Dr. A. Ledyard DeCamp of the Class of ‘30 is the current president. “The Marshal” will be on display at the Union for club members to see, and at 12:30 p.m. a luncheon will be held in the Morrison Room for members and visitors. The Wildcat Band will furnish music for the luncheon. No other program is planned for the club except the Davidson-VMI clash at 2:30.

In conjunction with the dedication of the John R. Cunningham Music and Fine Arts Center next week, the Music and Drama Departments will present a “Gala Performance of Music and Drama.” Performances are scheduled on Monday and Wednesday at 8 p.m. and Thursday at 2 and 8 p.m. The Wednesday performance is closed to students, but tickets for the other performances may be obtained at the Union desk.

Opening the program will be Ernest Chausson’s composition “Poeme,” op. 25, featuring violinist Elaine Richey and pianist David Richey. The Male Chorus, under the direction of Donald B. Plott, will sing “My Heart Commends Itself to Thee,” by Orlando di Lasso, “Diffusa Est Gratia,” by Navino, and the fifteenth-century English song, “The Agincourt Song.” On Monday and Wednesday, the Brass Ensemble will play “Canzona Per Sonare” No. 4 (1608), by Gabrieli, and “Funff Stimmen Blasenda Music,” by Pezel.

At the Thursday performance, the Woodwind Quintet will play “Divertimento No. 1 in B flat” by Hayden, movements I (Allegro con Spirito), II (Andante-St. Anthony Chorale), III (Minuetto), and IV (Rondo). At intermission, the audience is invited to visit the Harry Dalton Art Collection in the James Buchanan Duke Wing and the Presser Foundation Music Library in the Charles A. Dana Wing. Following intermission, the Vagabonds will present “Pyramus and Thisbe,” “a most lamentable comedy,” from Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” directed by John Sneden.

MONDAY
8 p.m. — Gala, Fine Arts Center

TUESDAY
10:20 a.m. — Dr. Peyre, Chapel
8 p.m. — Reynolds Lecture, Union

WEDNESDAY
11 a.m. — Dr. Peyre, Union
1:45 p.m. — Dr. Peyre, ATO House
8 p.m. — Gala, Fine Arts Center

THURSDAY
10:20 a.m. — Dedication, Fine Arts Center
2 p.m. — Gala, Fine Arts Center
8 p.m. — Gala, Fine Arts Center