NEW PROGRAM BENEFITS FACULTY (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

('CATS JOURNEY TO RICHMOND See Page Three)

VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1961 NUMBER SEVEN

Newspaper Retakes Top Rating

THE DAVIDSONIAN has won an “All-American” rating for the second semester of last year. Notice of the award, the highest
possible rating for a college newspaper, came from the Associated Collegiate Press this week. The ACP criticizes and rates college
papers throughout the nation each semester. First semester of last year THE DAVIDSONIAN won a “First Class” rating, which ranks
just below “All-American.”

B. Millner edited last year’s paper until the present staff assumed their positions in April. His editorials received the maximum
number of points and both layout and contents of the news pages were termed “excellent.” Editorial page makeup and sports
makeup and coverage were also rated “excellent,” with maximum possible points. Don Saunders, David Jordan, Bill Godwin, and Steve Clark
were page editors.

Issues of the newspaper published during the award period will be on display at the ACP convention next week in
Miami Beach. Four members of the staff, with delegates from other campus publications, will attend the meeting Thursday through Saturday.
Editor-in-Chief Jordan, Managing Editors Bill Hagen and Mac Plaxico, and Advertising Manager Ed Willer are representing the paper at the
three-day clinic. They will leave Charlotte Airport early Thursday.

Representing Quips and Cranks will be seniors Leonard Reed, Richardson, and Lowry. Frank Stafford, elected editor of The Wildcat Handbook
this week, will accompany outgoing editor Louis Burton, and Al Jones and Chip Clark are delegates from Scripts ‘n’ Pranks.

Chemical Fraternity Seeks More Vigor

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemical fraternity, held its first meeting of the year Tuesday in the Martin Science Building. Under
the direction of President Linton Wray, an election for lower offices was carried out. Louis Burton was elected vice-president, John
Sharp, treasurer, and Jim Pressly, secretary. At the meeting, President Wray led a discussion on plans for getting Alpha Alpha
Chapter on a more active basis.

DR. HENRI PEYRE delivered the first Reynolds Lecture of the year this past Tuesday night on the topic, “Can Literature
Be Sincere?” Dr. Peyre was on campus several days speaking to various groups. Above, Dr. W. P. Cumming leads Peyre
to the stage for his chapel talk Tuesday morning. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Yale Scholar Peyre Outspoken By None

BY DON SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Associate Editor

A fast-talking Gallic wit crashed staid Davidson's brain barrier this week: Henri Peyre of Yale displayed his world-famous analytical talent
in a whirlwind of words, both French and English. Peyre visited Davidson Tuesday and Wednesday as the first Reynolds lecturer
of the year. Speaking on four separate occasions, Peyre poured forth his torrent of prose before lamentably small groups of
the dedicated.

This fastidious Frenchman never hesitated to tell his mind. Poking gentle fun at the “conservative Calvinist-Southern gentlemen of Davidson,” he
nevertheless seemed impressed at the atmosphere. Peyre was polite and perceptive in his comments at the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity
house, where he ate Wednesday lunch. “You are organized democratically here?” “Your fraternities are really eating clubs, like at Princeton,
aren't they?” He noted: “My, you drink a lot of coffee here. But then, you cannot drink on the campus?”

A sharp remark directed against the Board of Trustees: “Perhaps we should change the composition of the Board of Trustees;
we have educated for business too much. We need educators, and not just big businessmen.” He corrected misconceptions about the
French. “I'd say there are about 10,000 existentialists in France today. Americans seem to think they will see existentialists in
every cafe in France, and everybody using bad words—in French they have five letters, in English they have four—but existentialism
is not a widely popular philosophy.”

(Continued On Page Four)

Student Vote Endorses Present Exam System

BY JEFF WAMPLER
Davidsonian Assignments Editor

Approximately 400 students voted Tuesday in the Academic-Scheduling Poll taken by the Student Council and THE DAVIDSONIAN. A majority of
249 favored continuing the present exam schedule of eight days. Ninety-two favored extending the exam period and 51 favored shortening
it. However, the average number of days favored by those who would change the schedule was 8.2, only slightly above
the present 8-day schedule.

Of the seniors voting, 45 favored continuing the present policy, while 23 favored extension and 16 preferred to shorten the
schedule for several free days. Twelve seniors opposed the present exam schedule, while 189 preferred some other system. Senior Bob
Bradford suggested a supervised open exam period in which all exams would be prepared and placed on the professor’s desk.
The student could then take his exams in any order he chose, provided that he take at least one a
day, beginning the first day of the exam period.

A majority of 249 favored the scheduling of classes and Rush Week at the same time, and the fact that
last year the Christmas holidays ended on January second. One sophomore commented, “Now that the students have something to say
about the scheduling, I feel that most bad situations of which the faculty is not aware will be avoided.”

In Plane

BY DENNY BY DAVID STITT
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Four or five Davidson students will attend an unusual UN Conference in New York during November. Applications are now being
made.

At the request of the Indian Consulate in New York, the Collegiate Council for the United Nations is calling together
several hundred United States student leaders to meet with Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on Nov. 11 in New York.
In connection with this meeting, a two-day conference on the United Nations has been organized on November 10 and 11
by the CCUN entitled “1961: UN Year of Crisis.” Davidson College has been invited by the CCUN to send representatives
to this conference.

CONCLAVE BEGINS

Registration will begin at the Hotel Commodore in New York at 12 noon on Friday, Nov. 10. The opening session
will include a welcoming address by Mr. Herman K. Steinkraus, president of the American Association for the United Nations, which
will be followed by a series of briefings by foreign missions to the UN representing several world areas, all under
the general heading of “Vital Issues from National Viewpoints.”

Friday night proceedings will include an address on “The American Viewpoint” which will be delivered by a speaker whose name
has not yet been announced. Conference participants will have their choice of three panel sessions: “The Role of Non-aligned Nations
in International Politics,” “African Development,” and “The Problems of Chinese Representation.”

NEHRU ADDRESS

Following these panel sessions will come the climax of the conference, an address by Nehru. The conference will end late
Saturday afternoon with an address by a high United Nations official.

The efforts to send a Davidson delegation to this conference are being backed strongly by the college administration. George Trask,
who has been asked to organize the delegation, announced Tuesday night that President Martin had advised him that the college
would allocate sufficient funds to help pay part of the expenses of students chosen to represent the school in New
York.

IMMEDIATE APPLICATION NECESSARY

C. Shaw also announced that interested students should apply at the Student Union office as soon as possible due to
the short amount of time left before the conference. An applicant must first write a theme on why he is
interested.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

in the United Nations and why he wishes to attend the Nov. 10 and 11 conference in New York. All
applications will be screened by a committee, which will name four or five of the applying students as representatives. Smith
also stated that it will be necessary for each represen-

Freshman Hurt Crash

PHILLIPS | Davidsonian Staff Writer

Freshman, was seriously injured in a plane crash this past Sunday at the Mooresville Airport. Chitwood was rushed to the
Charlotte Memorial Hospital along with the other occupant of the plane, Smiley W. Brown of Davidson. Chitwood is suffering from
a broken right leg, a broken left ankle, three cracked vertebrae, and injuries to his hips. He is now in
traction and cannot be moved for three or four months.

PARENTS ARRIVE

His parents have arrived from Dalton, Ga. early this week to be with him at the hospital. He was withdrawn
from school as the doctors said that he wouldn't be able to return for at least six months. Brown, an
employee at the Statesville Airport, is suffering from a broken ankle and back injuries. The plane, a late model Piper
“Super” Cub, crashed shortly after take-off. Chitwood only had one-half hour of flying experience under an instructor.

PLANE STALLS

He took off in the wrong direction (with the wind) and climbed to 400 feet. When he began to turn,
the plane stalled and went into a spin. It struck a tree and bounced into a drainage ditch. Gasoline sprayed
over the engine, but it didn’t catch on fire. The plane is almost a total wreck. This accident has brought
to light the current program of instruction and flying lessons being taken by a number of Davidson students.

Freshman Football Caps Parents Day

Freshman Parents Day, which is held annually by the Freshman Council, will fall this year on Nov. 4. In the
morning the parents will register at the College Union, and from there they will be taken on a guided tour
of the campus. There will be an assembly in Chambers Auditorium, with President Martin addressing the parents. To fill out
the morning, several fraternities will hold open house.

At noon there will be a luncheon, followed by a faculty reception. At the reception, the guests will have an
opportunity to meet and talk to the different professors that teach their sons. Completing the day, the freshman football team
will host Ferrum Junior College in an evening game. The Freshman Council has appointed members to organize the various events
of the day. Pete Coggeshall heads the publicity committee; Dan Campbell, the organization of the events.

Debate Team Wins

The Davidson Debate Team won a debate against the University of North Carolina last Friday. Bob Llewellyn and Tom Patton
were the affirmative, and Skip Jones and Doug Wilkerson were of the negative. The win brought their record to four
wins and no losses. The Novice Team won a split decision in a debate with UNC Frosh debaters at Chapel
Hill Saturday. Tom Abernathy and Bill Rule of the affirmative team won, while Conrad Shumadine and Chester Davis of the
negative team lost.

A varsity debate with Wingate College has been scheduled here this afternoon at 3. At this time, a new affirmative
team, Pat Freeny and Ed Barfield, along with veterans Jones and Wilkerson, will debate under the scrutiny of members of
the Debating Committee of the American Institute of Banking. Coach Joseph T. Drake predicts that the team will “do quite
well” against the Wingate debaters. On Nov. 3-4, the Novice Team will make a trip to Wake Forest to debate
six rounds in the Novice Tournament being held there. Although the opposing teams are yet to be assigned, teams from
many prominent colleges and universities in the Southeast will be represented. Though reluctant to make any prediction about the outcome
of the two-day affair, Drake told THE DAVIDSONIAN that “we will hold our own against the better teams that we
meet.”

Dr. Drake has arranged for Mr. J. V. Hunter, Greensboro lawyer and Davidson graduate, to speak to the debate teams
on Wed., Nov. 1, at 7 p.m. His topic will concern anti-trust laws, and there will be a time for
questions and discussion following the formal presentation. Drake emphasized that any other interested persons are invited to the talk to
be given in Phi Hall.

Davidson Projects Big Goals, Puts Stress on Library

Davidson is moving into the second phase of a new 15-year Development Program. The administration announced today, following up its
10-Year Plan with new goals. Faculty salaries, library books, and continued plant development will receive major emphasis in fund raising
for the program, which is designed, according to President D. Grier Martin, to make Davidson “the best college of its
type—not just in the South, but in all of America.” (See page two for complete details on plans and comment.)

SPECIAL BROCHURE

The board issued an official brochure at the conclusion of its annual two-day meeting. The pamphlet commemorates Davidson’s 125th anniversary
year by reviewing its past history and outlining in detail plans for the next decade. Since the initial phase of
the old 10-Year Plan in 1956, the college has raised $5,157,382. The expanded program calls for an additional $15,141,000 to
be raised by 1971. All the major goals set forth at the beginning of the plan five years ago have
been accomplished. These mainly emphasized plant expansion: a new library wing, a dormitory building, a fine arts building, and two
new academic buildings.

Stafford Will Edit Wildcat Handbook

Frank Stafford was chosen to edit next year’s Wildcat Handbook in an open student body election Wednesday. Stafford defeated his
opponent, Jack Hand, 149 votes to 65. Stafford, a junior, was assistant editor of the Wildcat Handbook last year and
is presently serving as editor of the Devotional Booklet for Davidson Students. Stafford has not yet revealed any definite plans
for the Handbook and will announce the new staff members at a later date. He stated, “Any minor changes I
have in mind at this time are strictly tentative, and will depend on various factors.”

“I will, however, appreciate any suggestions the student body has to offer,” Stafford added. The plans are that the Wildcat
Handbook will become a regular student body publication. Up until 1961, it had been sponsored by the YMCA. As editor
of the Handbook, Stafford is eligible to attend the Journalism Conference in Miami this November.

With the dedication of the Cunningham Arts Center Thursday, the goals were successfully concluded.

NEW PHASES

The college is now turning its major attention to other phases of its program. The keynote statement for the new
program includes the following challenges: to strengthen the faculty in quality, increase salaries and provide more incentives; to revamp the
curriculum and adapt it to current needs and changing emphases; to modernize older campus facilities for the best current use
and continue plant expansion; to double endowment so the college can operate on a “guaranteed income” basis; to turn the
proximity of Lake Norman and the proposed interstate highways into cultural and physical benefits that will serve the college and
the state.

SEEK GRANTS

“No general campaign is planned in the immediate future,” President Martin explained, “but efforts to secure grants from foundations and
other sources will continue in the pattern which has made the first five years of the program an encouraging and
inspiring success.” The North Carolina Synod of the Presbyterian Church, however, has already approved a general drive for Davidson to
be conducted in 1969. Some $1,268,000 is urgently needed by December 1964, to complete the $1,800,000 Richardson Challenge Program for
endowed professorships. Thus far, only $2,741,000 has been raised of the $9 million needed for faculty salary endowment.

DOUBLE BOOKS

Other requirements will double library book-stock funds and enlarge student scholarships and the international student program. This area also includes
provisions for counseling, instructional aids, physical education, and plant maintenance.

Specific proposals related to the physical plant of the college foresee action in the next ten years for additional library
facilities, College Union improvements, a biology greenhouse, faculty-staff housing, an alumni house or continuing education center, new lecture and seminar
facilities in Chambers, and renovation of the College Inn.
