FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1961

Sideline By STEVE CLARK

DOLE EYES BIG YEAR

Coach Bill Dole has put his hopeful footballers through the mill this spring, and he likes what he has seen.
He's liked it so much, in fact, that he was prompted to say, “It’s been the best spring practice ever
at Davidson.” Tomorrow afternoon, Dole gets a chance to see what the fellows have learned, when he and his aides
will conduct the Red-Black game, a Beaver Club project. Except for kickoffs, the game will be played under regular game
conditions. Actually, the Black team will be called the Whites, since Doc, the veteran equipment man, just can’t seem to
dig up any black uniforms. And to be even more precise, our school colors are scarlet and black. But who
is going to press that point?

Regardless of what you call the game, and despite what colored uniforms will be worn, the intra-squad fray is shaping
up to be a real thriller. Players on both sides are claiming that their team is the best, and one
can be assured that when action gets underway at 2 p.m., things will be a little more rigorous than a
pin-the-tail-on-the-donkey party.

Participating in tomorrow’s contest will be 21 lettermen from this past fall’s team that compiled a 3-5 record, including wins
over Catawba, VPI, and Lehigh. In addition, 22 sophomore aspirants will be knocking heads in an effort to crack into
the lineup somewhere. Only letter winners not participating for various reasons are end Jennings Snider, tackle Sonny Fraley, and guard
Cecil Holcomb. In addition, it is doubtful if quarterback Kent Tucker will be able to go due to an injury
sustained in last Saturday’s practice.

Tomorrow is just the beginning of what we think will be a good football season here at Davidson next fall.
Dole has more and better material to work with than ever before, and if a few sophomores pan out, the
Wildcats could be a real threat to the larger schools’ domination of conference laurels.

Defense will be the key word again next fall as Dole will probably have one of the hardest hitting units
in the conference. Main offensive problem should be quarterback, but this stigma could easily be eliminated if sophomores Earl Cole
and Benny Coxton come through.

Glancing quickly at the two rosters for tomorrow’s clash, we would like to stick our necks out and predict: Both
lines are about equal in experience, size, and speed; however, the Reds’ faster backfield gives them the nod — say,
Reds 19, Whites 14.

SOCCER SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED

Dr. Paul A. Marrotte, who has guided the soccer team through two highly successful seasons, and who decided to retire
at the end of this past season in order to spend more time on his tasks as a history professor,
announced the 1961 soccer schedule earlier this week. The schedule consists of 11 games, six at home and five away,
and includes newcomers South Carolina and Appalachian. To make room for these new opponents, Pfeiffer will be played only once
instead of the usual two games with the Falcons.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Comments

Experienced Paladins Host Double-Header

Reports on Furman indicate that the Paladins are an experienced ball club with several good hitters and a train load
of hard-throwing hurlers. The Wildcats had a streak of tough luck during the spring holidays on their tour through Georgia
as they won only one of four games. Jerry Jacques, a senior who has not pitched before this year, was
the winning pitcher in the ’Cats only victory at Mercer, 6-5, on the last day of the tour. Jacques’ win
was in danger in the ninth inning when there were two Mercer men on base with only one out, and
a Davidson lead of only one run. But Jerry Shelton made a running catch, fell to the ground, and rolled
over and up in time to throw to second base for the double play.

By JERRY TRAMMELL Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson baseball team travels to Furman today in hopes of improving its 3-7 (1 tie) overall record, and its
conference standing of 1-2. In the other three games Davidson lost two games to Georgia Southern by scores of 12-4
and 11-6. They also dropped one to Kentucky, 18-6. Last Monday the ’Cats were host to William & Mary for
a double-header, which the two teams split. Behind winning pitcher Tommy Hamilton, Davidson took the first game, 9-3, but was
defeated in the second game, 19-7. The locals led in the fifth frame of the second game by 5-1, but
blew up in the last minutes of the game as the Indians scored 13 runs in the humiliating top of
the sixth.

In commenting on the games played thus far, Stevens stated, “The hitting and team defense have been adequate, but the
pitching has been weak. I feel that the pitching will definitely improve as the pitchers gain confidence in themselves.” Stevens
tabbed Harry Smith and Tom Tuttle as the best double-play combination he has seen at Davidson. He praised the hitting
of Cecil Holcomb, who hit two home runs against Kentucky; sophomore Carl Rust, whose knee injury is sidelining him for
a while; and Captain Russ Cotton. Jerry Cole, who has not played since the first game due to an injured
ankle, was expected to return to the lineup this week. Stevens said that Cole's strong arm has been missed in
the outfield.

BUSY WEEK AHEAD FOR ‘CAT ATHLETES

HARRY SMITH hits the ball in the first of two William and Mary games here Monday. Davidson won the first,
9-3, but dropped the second, 19-7. (Davidsonian Staff Photo by Marty Lafferty)

Smith, Graham Showalter, and Tommy Hamilton.

HOME PAGE THREE

Sluggers At Furman Today

Unbeaten Track Team In Relay

By MEL McKENZIE Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson track team will compete in a massive meet tomorrow afternoon in Greenville, S.C. Everything from high schools to
universities will contend in divisions of the News Piedmont Relays. This kaleidoscope track meet is being jointly sponsored by the
News Piedmont newspaper and Furman University. Wednesday, the thinclads were scheduled to run conference foe Furman at Greenville, but rain
postponed that contest.

Last Saturday Davidson crushed Wake Forest, 86-49. The ’Cats ran away with ten firsts, ten seconds, and six thirds, while
the Deacons managed to dominate only third places. Coach Roger Thrift lauded.

Highlights of the season will be the Carson-Newman game here on the Friday of Homecoming weekend, the North Carolina game
here, and the Duke game in Durham in November. The schedule will be as follows: Saturday, Oct. 7 - at
King College, Bristol, Tenn.; Tuesday, October 10 - at Belmont Abbey; Friday, Oct. 13 - Carson-Newman here; Tuesday, Oct. 24
- North Carolina here; Friday, Oct. 27 - South Carolina here; Monday, Oct. 30 - Belmont Abbey here; Thursday, Nov.
2 - N.C. State here; Tuesday, Nov. 7 - at Pfeiffer; Friday, Nov. 10 - Appalachian here; Monday, Nov. 13
- at Duke; and Saturday, Nov. 18 - at Emory Univ.

Gridders End Drills In Tomorrow’s Clash

Coach Bill Dole gets a final look until fall at his 1961 edition of the Davidson football team tomorrow afternoon
at 2 p.m. in Richardson Stadium, where a hotly contested intra-squad game is in sight. The game, which is being
tabbed the Red-Black spring football game, will be between two teams that Dole has divided as evenly as possible from
his reaction to the players’ performances during spring drills. Actually, the teams are divided into Red and White units since
home uniforms are white rather than black. The game is being sponsored by the Beaver Club, and admission will be
50 cents for students and faculty, and $1.00 for “outsiders.”

NO KICKOFFS

The contest will be conducted under regular game conditions, except there will be no kickoffs. Dole and his assistants will
place the ball down at the thirty-yard stripe to begin play. Tomorrow's activity will bring to a close what Dole
describes as “the best spring practice we've ever had.” All indications point to a successful season on the gridiron next
fall, and tomorrow will give fans a first look at things to come.

Dole has divided his squad of 46 men as follows:

REDS

ENDS — Booker Clark*, Jerry Sheffield*, Fred McGuirt, Richard Booth, and Ed Rude.
TACKLES — Eddie Crutchfield*, Win Hall, Jim Rhyne, and Bill Dole, Jr.
GUARDS — Bill Bankhead*, Dick Voorhees*, Jim Waldron, and Morris Williams.
CENTERS — Joe Ansley* and Tom Day.
QUARTERBACKS — Benny Coxton and Kent Tucker*.
HALFBACKS — Bob Cordle*, Alex Gibbs*, David Lopp, and Lyle Blalock.
FULLBACKS — Lynwood Mallard* and Carl Hunt*.

WHITES

ENDS — Lou Zirkle*, Bill Whittington*, Mickie Slaughter*, George McEver, and Jim Pressley.
TACKLES — Bill Salzer*, Mike Owen*, Bill Shumaker*, and Dick Fulp.
GUARDS — Dave Lovette*, Russell Walls, Johnny Jernigan, and Wilson Curlee.
CENTERS— Bruce Usher* and Britt Smith. QUARTERBACK — Earl Cole. HALFBACKS — Duncan Morton*, Jim Fuller, Jimmy Killebrew, Joe Jones,
and Barry Billington. FULLBACKS — Bob McAllister* and Bill Plunket.

* FRANK McPHILLIPS displays his driving form that has made him a top golfer this spring. Monday, the sophomore fired
a 74 to lead Davidson to an 18-9 decision over Oak Ridge. (Davidsonian Staff Photo by Bill Wyche)

McPhillips Fires 74, Barely Misses Ace

With only Verner Stanley back from last year’s conference champion golf team, people didn’t figure that Coach Tom Scott’s team
would be too good this year. Inexperienced upperclassmen and untried sophomores just couldn't get the job done, many claimed, and
so, aside from Stanley, it was to be a lean year on the links. However, the newcomers have come through
in fine style, and once again Davidson has a challenging golf squad. One of the main reasons is sophomore Frank
McPhillips, our “Wildcat of the Week.”

Going into yesterday's match with Carolina, McPhillips was undefeated in match play. He, like everyone else, had a rough time
at Greenbrier (where medalist play was in effect), but admits that the bad weather affected his play. This past Monday,
McPhillips fired a 74 (low for the day) against Oak Ridge in Mooresville and defeated his man 3-0. This is
his best score thus far this year, but he contends, “If I had been putting half decent, I could have
shot 68 or 69." The statement is easily proved by the fact that the Mobile, Ala., native “hit” sixteen greens
— golf lingo meaning that he was putting for birdies (one under par) on sixteen of the eighteen holes.

Teammate John Crute commented, “Frank was really hitting the ball good today. He almost had a hole-in-one on number five.”
Crute was referring to the par three, 120-yard, number five hole at Mooresville, when McPhillips’ drive hit past the pin,
bounced back toward the hole, rimmed the cup, and stopped two inches from the cup. Had the sophomore's ball dropped
in, he would have been the first Davidsonian ever to have had an ace in a match.

Next Monday and Tuesday Davidson entertains Georgia Southern. Stevens urges those who appreciate good baseball to see these games. He
considers Southern the best team that his team will meet this season, and that includes powerhouses Citadel, Richmond, and Wake
Forest. Next Thursday VPI plays a double-header here.

TEAM LEADERS

The following statistics were available through the first 11 games:

ab hh avg.
Harry Cline 45 14 .311
Ed Hines 42 12 .286
Tommy Tuttle 50 14 .280
Cecil Holcomb 33 8 .273

RUNS — Cline, 10.
RBI’s — Holcomb and Tom Harris, 8
DOUBLES — Cline, 4.
TRIPLES — Tuttle, Holcomb, Harry

SAE’s, Phi Delts, Kappa Sigs Vie As Softball Opens

A morning rain, that left the ground a soggy mess, interrupted Wednesday's opening date for inter-fraternity softball. Right before the
spring holidays, I-F volleyball action was completed. Final standings found the Phi Delts as champions, closely followed by the Kappa
Sigs, KA’s, ATO’s, and SAE’s. Going into the last two sports — softball and tennis, the former classified as a
major while the latter a minor — the SAE’s are holding a slim lead over the defending champion Phi Delts
in the overall standings. The SAE’s with 829 points lead the Delts by 34 points. The Kappa Sigs and KA’s
trail with 690 and 661 points, respectively. The Kappa Sigs are defending softball champions.

Overall standings for the I-F athletic trophy are as follows:

SAE’s 829
Phi Delts 795
Kappa Sigs 680
KA's 681
Betas 601
Sigma Chis 586
Phi Gams 546
ATO’s 537
SPE’s 517
Pi Kapps 485
Pikas 445
Independents 354
Sigma Nus 346

“The boys had a great day at Wake Forest!” Ed Kizer tied the conference’s 100-yard dash record when he sprinted
the distance in 9.7 seconds. Roger Beebe, high scorer of the day, took the 220-yard dash in 22 seconds flat
and the 440 in 51.4. Thrift praised these accomplishments as exceptional. Behind Beebe’s pace-setting 11½ points were Kizer — 9½,
Pat Currie — 8, and Andy Boggs — 7.

The frosh tracksters competed also, but didn’t fare as well as their big brothers. However, the Wildkittens have several standouts
that should be a great boost to next year’s varsity. John Maddox stood out head and shoulders above all the
frosh as he capped four events — the 100-yard dash, the 220, and the high and low hurdles. This feat
was good for twenty points in the losing cause against the Baby Deacs. Other outstanding freshmen were Joe McCormack, who
took first in the 440, and Tim Spiro, who managed second in the mile run, the two-mile run, and the
880.

The varsity will meet Richmond in a dual meet here Tuesday afternoon.

Netters Face UNC Here On Monday

On Monday, the netters fell to Duke's surprisingly powerful team, 9-0, at Durham. However, several of the matches were extremely
close, and with a few breaks on the Wildcats’ side of the nets, the whitewashing may have been avoided.

COOPER WINS

Tuesday, the squad journeyed over to nearby Chapel Hill for a match with highly touted Carolina. Only Richardson Scholar Nick
Cooper of England could manage a victory, his in the number five slot, and the Tarheels dealt the ‘Cats an
8-1 setback. Wednesday's match with N. C. State at Raleigh was postponed due to rain. Coach Semi Mintz's forces’ best
chances of bringing home a victory were in the State match, but after two crushing defeats, the locals were satisfied
to return home and rest for a big week coming up.

TOUGH SCHEDULE

Co-captain Finley Lee added, “This is the toughest tennis schedule I have ever played.” This coming Monday afternoon, the netmen
re-match Carolina here, and Friday the touring team from the University of Cincinnati stops here for a match.

JUST ARRIVED NEW SHIPMENT

White Pants By Levi — $4.98

Rush Wilson Ltd.

Let Us Freshen the Impression of All Your Clothes. Bring Your Dry Cleaning and Laundry to Us So As To
be Ready For the Spring Frolics.

JACKSON CLEANERS MAIN STREET — DAVIDSON
