! AUMAN SCORES WILDCAT NINE (See Page Two) COLVIN EDITORIAL OPENS AT CATAWBA (See Page Three)

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. XLIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1961 NUMBER TWENTY

Dean Signs Professor Of Russian

The administration announced this week that Andrei Lobanov-Rostovsky has been contracted as a visiting professor for next year. Lobanov-Rostovsky will teach a course in Russian History, Elementary Russian, and a seminar in Russian Studies.

He was born in Japan where his father, who was in the diplomatic service, was stationed. Lobanov-Rostovsky was educated at the Imperial School of Law in St. Petersburg, Lycee de Nice, and The School of Political Science in Paris. He served as a captain in the Imperial Guard of Russia from 1913 to 1918 and fought with General Denekin against the Bolsheviks in the Russian Revolution. Lobanov-Rostovsky also served in the French Army in 1918 and 1919.

Lobanov-Rostovsky taught history at the University of California in Berkeley from 1930-1945 and has been a professor of History at the University of Michigan since 1945. He will be brought to Davidson under the sponsorship of The John Hay Whitney Foundation which will pay part of his salary.

Chief among his published works are Russia and Asia, The Grinding Mill: Reminiscences of War and Revolution in Russia 1913-20, and two books on Russian and European history. Dean Frontis Johnston said the college was indeed grateful to the Whitney Foundation for nominating a man of such high caliber to the faculty. Lobanov-Rostovsky is 69, and has two children, ages one and two.

George Trask Will Lead

George Trask was elected student-body president and John Spratt, secretary-treasurer, in run-off voting Wednesday. This concluded balloting for Student Council officers which began last week with the election of Ken Kelley and John Killian to the posts of first and second vice-president.

Trask, who is studying abroad this year at the University of Vienna, sent a campaign speech which was read in assembly Monday. In it he stated a few of his plans for the coming year, including closer student relations with the faculty, Trustees, and foreign students. “In spite of the success of this year’s Council, there remains a great deal to be done,” stated Trask. “Thus, next year is going to be a year of change, requiring strong student leadership and student support.”

Trask has been serving on the Council for the past two years, as class representative his sophomore year and was elected first vice-president last year. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Spratt defeated Rick von Unwerth for the secretary-treasurer post. He is president of the Beta Theta Pi pledge class and is on the Freshman Council. According to Ned Davis, elections board chairman, over 65 percent of the student body voted on the president and secretary-treasurer positions Tuesday and Wednesday. This is one of the largest turnouts in recent years.

Students Vote To Accept Council's New Constitution

The Student Body passed the proposed revision of the Student Body Constitution by a vote of 417 to 92 Thursday. Under Article X of the new Constitution, the Student Council has the power to effect changes in the by-laws by a two-thirds vote of the council. By eliminating the time-consuming process prescribed under the old constitution, the council can now act quickly and efficiently on problems as they arise.

Various elections will continue through the next few weeks, with Honor Court openings first on the agenda. Court aspirants will speak in assembly Monday and voting will start on Tuesday. There are six positions to be filled on the Court, one member each from the sophomore, junior, and senior classes. Students may only nominate and vote for members of their respective classes.

On March 20, Y.M.C.A. offices will be open for election, followed several days later by voting for Freshmen Adviser and publication-staff posts.

Burton Formulates Handbook Policy

Louis Burton, recently elected editor of THE WILDCAT HANDBOOK, has already begun developing plans for the 1961-62 edition. He announced his business manager and several important policy changes this week. The appointment of Jim Jamison as business manager is the only definite staff position at this time. Other members of the general staff now at work include Forrest Roles, Frank Wolfe, and Joe Robinson.

Mansell And Robinson Seek Top YMCA Post

Juniors Frank Mansell and Joe Robinson will run for president of the YMCA. They head a slate of 11 candidates announced to THE DAVIDSONIAN today by the YMCA Nominating Committee. Presidential candidates will deliver campaign speeches in student assembly on Monday, March 20. Voting will follow for all offices.

Other nominees are: vice-president — Spud Stewart, Jim Glenn, and Alec Morgan; secretary — Frank Byrd, Walter Eckman, and Sam Glasgow; treasurer — Neil Nichols, Phil Burks, and Ralph Small.

Mansell is president of Sigma Nu fraternity and has served as business manager of Scripts ‘n Pranks. His Y activities have included work on last fall's Freshman Handbook.

Thomson Compliments Davidson ROTC Unit

The Davidson ROTC unit is sure to continue its record of superior ratings for federal inspections, Lt. Col. William L. Adams predicted this week after the visit of Col. Edward Thomson. “We can’t get the formal rating at this time. It will come in about six weeks, but I'll stake my life that it will be superior,” Col. Adams proudly reported.

Col. Thomson, head of the ROTC Department at the University of Tennessee, and his assistant, Lt. Col. Hunter Montgomery, were “highly complimentary” of the local facilities, instruction, and corps. They termed all they saw as very outstanding, Adams said. The inspecting team was on campus Monday and Tuesday. They participated in the formal parade and inspection Tuesday afternoon, which was threatened by rain. “We have had rain just before or after every federal inspection since I've been here,” Major Robert Fleming commented. “But every time we have been lucky enough to get through.”

The new radio club and radio facilities drew the special praise and interest of the inspectors. They were also interested in, and highly complimentary about, the new one-semester program for advanced cadets. “Col. Thomson said he was especially happy to visit Davidson. He was commander at Fort Bragg last summer, had met Stan Gaines and other Davidson boys there, and was very impressed,” Adams explained.

Gaines, cadet corps commander, led the staff and cadets in special briefings and in the formal ceremonies. Adams will be leaving the second week in April to do similar inspections of ROTC units. He will mainly be visiting schools in Georgia.but it is possible that we have omitted reference to some things which later councils can add on. However, I think it is better to have too little and add on than to have as we had before.” LEGETTE BLYTHE

James Anderson, Charles Cornwell, Hansford Epes, Elwood Hartman, Henry McFadyen, Norris McKinnon, Spiro Marcis, Henry Shue, and Peter John Kellog (class of '60) will be supported by the Woodrow Wilson Fellowship Program for a year at the graduate school of their choice. A native Mecklenburger from Huntersville and also a graduate of the University of North Carolina, LeGette Blythe is the co-author of the recent book “Thomas Wolfe and His Family” with the late Mabel Wolfe Wheaton, sister of the famous writer. A distinguished journalist, novelist, and historian, Blythe was a personal friend of Thomas Wolfe. Other books by Blythe include “Call Down the Storm,” “A Tear for Judas,” “Bold Galilean,” “Miracle in the Hills,” and “The Crown Tree.”

Nine Davidson students, including a last year’s graduate, were announced recipients of Woodrow Wilson National Fellowships this week. Stafford, Wilson Day, and Carl George Trask sheet Rust.

ATO's Schedule Annual Olympics

The second annual Davidson-Queens Olympics has been scheduled for March 25, at 2:30 p.m. in Richardson Stadium. This date is the same day as the Dave Brubeck Concert and the Military Ball. The Olympics will be composed of contests among Queens students and Davidson students. Events will include tricycle races, pie-eating contests, chicken catching, and egg throwing. Proceeds from this project will go to a charity which will be announced later. Last year the first annual Olympics raised $300 for artificial legs for Dickie Bryant, who lost his own legs in a train accident. The Olympics are jointly sponsored by Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity and the Queens Panhellenic Council. Co-chairmen for the event are Ben Shappley and Jim Jamison, and Madelin Hahn is chairman at Queens.

Panelists will include Dr. Richard Walser, editor and author, and LeGette Blythe, noted writer. Fred Wolfe, brother of the late Thomas Wolfe, and Mrs. Wolfe of Asheville will be special guests for the event. A native of Lexington, N.C., Richard Walser attended Davidson College and was graduated from the University of North Carolina. Since 1946 he has been Professor of English at N.C. State College in Raleigh. In 1958 he was the recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship. A nationally known authority on Tar Heel literature, Walser is editor of The Enigma of Thomas Wolfe, the recent Nematodes in My Garden of Verse, and has published “North Carolina Poetry,” “Short Stories from the Old North State,” “North Carolina Drama,” and short biographies of novelists Bernice Kelly Harris and Inglis Fletcher.

James I. McCord, president of Princeton Theological Seminary, talks informally with a group of students after the YMCA forum Monday night in the Union. McCord delivered the Otts Lecture in the college church Tuesday night.

The nominees for the office of vice-president are all rising juniors. Stewart, a member of Alpha Tau Omega, was on the Freshman Council last year. Morgan of Beta Theta Pi served as president of the Freshman Council. Glenn, the remaining candidate, is a Sigma Chi. Rising sophomores were selected to compete for the secretary's office. Eckman, of the Freshman Council, is a member of Phi Delta Theta; Byrd, an ATO; and Sam Glasgow, of Beta Theta Pi.

In the treasurer's race, Nichols, an ATO, is a rising junior. Jurks and Small, both Sigma Chis, are presently freshmen. Tom Mainor, chairman of the committee, explained members of the student body would be able to submit additional nominations, but the committee had chosen the ones it felt were most capable.

Vagabonds Present Five Play Program March 13-14

Davidson College’s drama group, the Vagabonds, have been unable to secure the rights to present “Zoo Story,” and will consequently produce only five plays during the evenings of March 13-14 in Chambers Auditorium on the campus. All five plays will be presented on these evenings with curtain time set for 7:30 p.m. This group of plays will constitute a tournament to select four plays for entry in the state one-act play contest. The plays to be presented are “The Second Shepherd's Play,” by the Wakefield Master; “The Devil and Daniel Webster,” by Stephen V. Benet; “The Lottery,” by Shirley Jackson; “Dark Lady of The Sonnets,” by G. Bernard Shaw; and “Escurial” by Schelerode. Since the plays are to be in competition, the audience will be requested to offer criticism and submit suggestions for their improvement. Admission price to this program of one-act plays will be $1.00. High school students will be admitted for 50c. Subscribers will be admitted free.

Several revisions of its own and presented the proposed constitution to the Student Body for their proposed revisions to the Student Council, which made several revisions of its own and presented the proposed constitution to the Student Body for approval.

There will also be a section containing the telephone numbers and addresses of faculty members and maps showing faculty residences. Telephone numbers of dormitories, fraternities, and neighboring schools will also be included. Tentative plans call for the printing of a student directory in October. It would be designed to be inserted in the back of the book. Burton plans to have the book printed in Charlotte, to facilitate college control of it. He is presently working to complete a contract. He hopes the book will be mailed to freshmen sometime in August and copies will be distributed to the upperclassmen in September. Burton reported the most significant change will be the addition of the photographs of all freshmen as part of the book, which will replace the separate photo book used this year.

Three seniors, Bob Denham, Mike Grant, and Jerry Jacques, also received honorable mention in the program. Last year eight Davidson seniors won Wilson grants. This ranks Davidson third among the top six colleges in the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Region V, which includes Delaware, Maryland, District of Columbia, West Virginia, Virginia, and North Carolina. Of the colleges in this area, others with a high number of winners are Duke University with 17, Georgetown University with 12, the University of North Carolina with eight, and John Hopkins University and William and Mary College with six each.

Anderson's fellowship was awarded in the field of mathematics. A member this year of the IFC, he also belongs to the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and has been inducted into Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa, and was chosen for Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities. Cornwell, a Robert F. Phifer Scholar and editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks, received his fellowship in the field of English. Also a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa and Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternities, he belongs to the Eumenean Literary Society and the Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity. An English honors student and a National Merit Scholar, Epes won his fellowship in the field of German. He belongs to the honorary Phi Mu Alpha (music) and the Phi Beta Kappa fraternities as well as the Eumenean Literary Society and the Sigma Nu social fraternity.