‘CATS HOST WOFFORD TOMORROW (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DILLARD REVIEWS ‘ANTIGONE’ (See Page Three)

VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1961 NUMBER NINE

THE FALLOUT SHELTER in Dr. Maloney’s basement is one of about 15 in Davidson and the surrounding area. Most are
constructed of several layers of concrete block and are supplied with food provisions for about a two-week’s stay. (Staff Photo
by McCutchen.)

New Fallout Shelters:
BY BILL RUTH
Davidsonian Feature Editor

What kind of protection do Davidson students have against radioactive fallout from a nuclear explosion? At present, none, but plans
are being made to construct fallout shelters on the college campus. Progress so far has been slow; however, the town
of Davidson has already taken concrete steps in preparation for family survival.

The family fallout shelter has been selected by civil defense authorities as the first line of defense against radiation. “A
fallout shelter is good insurance, just like automobile insurance,” explains Dr. John I. Hopkins, Radiation Study Committee chairman and physics
professor. “You never expect to have an accident in your car, and in the same way we hope the need
for a shelter never presents itself, but it is good insurance in case it is ever needed.”

Family shelters are usually massive structures in a basement or a back-yard. Various types are being built in Davidson. Dr.
Sam Maloney has constructed one in his basement of eight-inch concrete blocks, sandbags, and a two-foot thick concrete ceiling. A
more elaborate one is being built by his neighbor, Dr. Joseph Drake, professor of sociology. It is also a concrete
structure but is being set up behind his house and when completed will contain an air filtration system.

Nine shelters are presently ready for use in Cornelius and about eight in Davidson. Others are under construction in both
towns. Such radiation shields are designed to stop the lethal doses of X-rays which would be emitted by falling particles.
This can be accomplished by a wall of concrete two feet thick or other shielding material of equal density.

Various efforts are being made by the town to develop a controlling civil defense organization which would make this area
self-sufficient. “Community organization is necessary because conditions in Charlotte may not be the same as here,” states Hopkins. Mr. R.
W. Adams has been appointed civil defense director for the northern area of North Mecklenburg County by Davidson’s Mayor Jackson.
“In Davidson there are 13 key people who control the various phases of civil defense administration,” says Jackson.

To acquaint interested towns-
(Continued On Page Four)

Debaters Successful In Match

Each of Davidson’s novice debate teams lost one and won five rounds at the Eleventh Annual Debate Tournament at Wake
Forest on Nov. 3-4. Twenty schools represented by 26 teams, from U. of Pittsburgh to Birmingham Southern, participated in the
meet. For Davidson on the affirmative were Bill Rule and Tom Abernathy, while Conrad Shumadine and Chester Davis composed the
negative team.

The Davidson affirmative lost only to W&L; the negative succumbed to one of three Wake Forest teams. U. of Pittsburgh
won the tournament with 11 rounds won and one lost. Davidson and Wake Forest tied for second place with 10-2
scores. Three of the local debaters captured individual speakers awards. The trio—part of a group of 14 who received the
awards—included Rule, Davis, and Shumadine.

The next debating event planned for this year is the Fourteenth Annual Southern Tau Kappa Alpha Tournament which will be
held at Duke on Nov. 17-18. Tentatively, Davidson will be represented by Pat Freeny and Ed Barfield, affirmative; Skip Jones
and Doug Wilkerson, negative. Greg Govan and Tom Poston will participate in the forensic events.

Appalachian State Teachers’ College at Boone will be the scene of another contest for the Davidson squads. Present plans indicate
that two teams and perhaps one or more students will be entered in the forensic events at the Annual Tournament
there on Dec. 1-2. The varsity and the novices, coached by Mrs. H. T. Lilly and Dr. J. T. Drake,
have a combined seasonal record of 17 wins and 3 losses.

Princeton’s Turkevich Gives Phi Bete Lectures

Dr. John Turkevich, professor of chemistry at Princeton, will lecture on Nov. 26 and 27 as a member of the
Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program. The program is sponsored by The United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa to enable
more schools to have leading scholars visit their campuses. It was begun in 1956, and this year features seven scholars
who will make more than 70 visits to various institutions throughout the country.

Turkevich will be in Hodson Hall of the Fine Arts Center from 4-5 p.m. on Mon., Nov. 27, to play
a recording he made of the choirs at the Great Cathedral in Moscow. All students are invited. At 8 that
night he will address chemistry majors in the Martin Science Building. His topic will be “The World of Fine Particles.”
On Tues., Nov. 28, from 4-5 p.m., he will lecture on “Science and Education in the Soviet Union” in Hodson
Hall. The lecture will be open to the entire student body.

Turkevich has had a varied and interesting career in science. He was a member of the U. S. delegation to
the United Nations Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy in Geneva in both 1955 and 1958. He has
also served as a consultant with the Atomic Energy Commission; and during World War II, he was a member of
the staff of the Manhattan Project. With his wife, Dr. Turkevich has written Russian for the Scientist, and he was
editor of the Brookhaven Guide to Russian Scientific Periodical Literature from 1948-1953. His principal interests in the

First Semester Exam Schedule

MON. Jan. 15
A.M. Third Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
P.M. Third Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

TUE. Jan. 16
A.M. Fourth Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
P.M. Sixth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

WED. Jan. 17
A.M. Fourth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
P.M.

THUR. Jan. 18
A.M.
P.M. ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41

FRI. Jan. 19
A.M.
P.M. Fifth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

SAT. Jan. 20
A.M.
P.M.

MON. Jan. 22
A.M. First Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
P.M.

TUE. Jan. 23
A.M. Second Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
P.M. Second Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

WED. Jan. 24
A.M. First Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

Tillich Arrives Next Week: Offers Four-Lecture Series
Addresses ‘Y’ Groups, Chambers Audience
BY GEORGE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dr. Paul Tillich, described as “one of the world’s leading theologians,” will arrive on campus Thursday afternoon, Nov. 16, to
deliver the second Reynolds Lecture of the current year. Dean Frontis Johnston noted that Davidson is fortunate in being able
to secure the Harvard University professor, and added, “Dr. Tillich is one of the most distinguished theologians of this generation
and one of the top people of his field in the world.”

The Reynolds Lecture will be delivered Thursday night at 8:15 in Chambers auditorium. At that time Tillich will speak on
the “Interpretation of History.” Friday at a voluntary chapel he will deliver a lecture on “Christology.” Friday night, Tillich will
talk informally with the members of the YMCA study groups on his book, Dynamics of Faith. He

Longer Spring Holidays In Next Year's Calendar
BY MAC PLAXICO
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The faculty adopted the college calendar for the academic year 1962-63 at its regular faculty meeting Wednesday. The calendar was
drawn up by the Academic Scheduling Committee, of which Dr. J. T. Drake is chairman.

The Committee listed a number of changes from last year's schedule. These changes avoid a Labor Day conflict and leave
an opening for freshman camp. Classes also begin on a Wednesday and only two regular school days overlap Rush Week.

LONGER SPRING BREAK
Spring holidays will be lengthened from this year’s five days to eight days and will include two weekends. The midterm
break will be increased

Roundtable Offers Discussion Series

Next Monday, Nov. 13, from 7-7:30 p.m. in the lounge of the College Union, Dr. E. F. Patterson will open
a program that is designed to give students new and better insights into world affairs. Each Monday night thereafter, the
Roundtable Committee of the Union will present a roundtable discussion with different professors on current events of the preceding week.

Jerry Shelton, president of the Union, said that the discussions would be very informal. “We hope to have a different
professor each week, just sitting in the lounge to talk to any interested student on any aspect of the news.
We hope that in a few weeks there will be sufficient interest built up so that 20 or 30 students
will attend.”

The committee will make a bulletin board with different headlines to suggest questions for the students. “But the questions raised
will be entirely up to the students,” Shelton said.will conclude his series of talks Saturday morning at the Convocation of
Sacred Music in the College Church by speaking on “The Expression of Religion Through Liturgy and Acts.” Tillich was born
in Starzeddel, Prussia, in 1886. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Breslau in 1911, having studied previously at
several other European universities. From 1919 to 1933 he taught religion and philosophy at different universities throughout Germany. As an
outspoken critic of Nazism, he was compelled to leave Germany after the rise of Hitler, and in 1933 he came
to America at the invitation of Union Theological Seminary in New York City, where he was professor of philosophical theology
until 1953. Upon his retirement from Union, he joined the faculty at Harvard Divinity School, and in 1954 was appointed
University Professor in Harvard University, a title reserved for a small number of scholars who are free to work “on
the frontiers of knowledge” without restriction as to field. His work “on the frontiers of knowledge,” besides making him one
of the leading theologians in the West, has also brought him considerable popularity in Japan and the Far East. Buddhist
philosophers there have continually shown interest in his ideas concerning the boundary line between theology and philosophy in the area
of religion and culture, where he has done the main portion of his work. Tillich has also studied the relationship
of religion to depth psychology, and the relation of religion to the philosophical movement of existentialism and the visual arts.
As Tillich explains it, he builds his theology “on the method of correlation between questions arising out of human predicament
and the answers given in the classical symbols of religion.” During his lifetime Tillich has written a total of 21
books on religion and philosophy, including The Protestant Era, Dynamics of Faith, and Theology of Culture. He is currently working
on his twenty-second book, the third volume to his Systematic Theology.

Committee Screens Three For Fulbright
BY DAVID STITT
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Three Davidson students—Harrison Wellford, Joe Robinson, and Andy Vance—have applied for Fulbright Scholarships and have been interviewed by a Davidson
committee of professors. Robinson has applied for a study grant under the Fulbright program to Germany, while Wellford and Vance
both applied for study in France, with Vance indicating particular interest in a possible French government assistantship to teach English
in a French school. In the interview, which more or less followed the procedure used in the Rhodes Scholarship interviews,
each applicant was asked different questions both in and out of his field which were designed to test his reactions
to the types of questions he might expect to be asked abroad. The members of the interviewing committee graded each
applicant not only on his ability to react when put on the spot, but also on such items as the
student’s personality, emotional stability, language qualification, and development of leadership potential. The student is also graded on a statement he
makes explaining his “project,” or why he wants to go abroad to study, what he would like to accomplish while
he is abroad, and how he plans to go about fulfilling his aims. Besides the application blanks themselves, an applicant
must submit a physical recommendation from a doctor, must be fluent in the language of the country he has applied
for, and must include his college transcript. The formal interviews, held last Friday by Professors Abernethy, Cumming, and Thompson, are
the first in a series of screening processes the applications of the three students will undergo. From here the applications
are sent to one of several national committees composed of five professors each which are set up by the Institute
of International Education, which directly or indirectly handles most exchange programs in the country. A separate national committee is appointed
by the Institute to handle applications for study grants to each of the many foreign countries which participate in the
exchange program. Professor Embry, who served for two years on the national committee for France, noted that experienced men from
different fields such as science, philosophy, and languages are asked to serve on the committees, and that the screening processes
are most thorough. Each national committee will select from hundreds of applications a “panel” or list of students in order
of their rating by the committee. This panel is submitted to the State Department, which ordinarily sends it intact to
the Fulbright Committee in the different participating countries, and these committees, which have the power to refuse any of the
applications, particularly any student with an unfeasible project, are responsible for assigning the Fulbright Scholars to different universities in the
country.

from two to three days by members who did not supervise including a Sunday. Commencement will come on June 1
and 2, which is a week later than this year’s. Christmas holidays will include one full week before Christmas Day
as they do this year. Both exam periods are eight days long as they are this year. There will be
91 contact hours first semester and 90 second semester. Although the calendar was drawn up before the Academic Scheduling Poll
was taken by the Student Council and THE DAVIDSONIAN two weeks ago, many of the changes agree with the student
opinion revealed by this poll. Students also indicated that they were in favor of the eight-day exam period and the
full week of holidays before Christmas Day which were kept the same in next year's schedule (see page four for
condensed version of 1962-63 schedule).

CURRICULUM CHANGES
A joint major in the four social sciences; economics, political science, geography, and sociology; which was recommended by the Curriculum
Committee, was adopted by the faculty at its Wednesday meeting. It will still be possible to major in any of
these subjects separately (except geography, which is not listed as a major in the current catalogue). A tutorial course in
English for the writing of a senior thesis was also approved by the faculty. Three credit hours will be given
for both semesters together and admission will be by recommendation of the English Department. The writing will be supervised by
the English Department and the thesis will be read by a committee including the writing of the thesis.

OFFICIAL DEAN’S LIST
The publication of a list of all students who had a 2.5 average the preceding semester, which will be known
officially as the Dean’s List, was authorized by the faculty. Dean Frontis W. Johnston stated that the lists which are
now posted on the bulletin board at the library end of Chambers will continue to be posted there on the
same basis as presently. The Dean’s List will be in addition to these lists, which have no official title. The
faculty also approved cutting each class five minutes short on Friday, Nov. 17, so that Dr. Paul Tillich will have
a full hour to speak at a voluntary assembly that morning (see story on Tillich’s visit on this page).

Army And Natives Arrive For Game
Tomorrow's football game with Wofford College will be the occasion for the observance of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Day and Veterans Day at
Davidson. Special rates for barbecue and for the football tickets will be given to the residents of Charlotte and Mecklenburg
County. The football tickets and barbecue tickets, which normally sell for $2.50 and $1.25, will be sold together for $3.00.
The barbecue will precede the football game. For the observance of Veterans Day, the ROTC Department has invited approximately 300
members of the reserve units of the Army, Navy, and Air Force to present the half-time show for the football
game.

Remodeling, Expansion Planned
Renovation of Chambers auditorium, enlargement of the language laboratory, and provision of facilities for the new humanities course are among
the projects being considered for future college building goals.

DOME ROOM UTILIZED
However, none of these items has been assigned priority as of yet. Robert A. Currie, business manager, noted, “As all
of these are long-range needs, we will decide later which will get priority when we see which need is most
pressing and how much money we have.” Although no specific plans have been drawn up, the Business Office has been
able to arrive at an estimated budget. Actual plans will not be drawn until a particular project gains priority. The
new humanities course, which will be inaugurated next year, will require a lecture room for 100 students and smaller rooms
for group discussions. Currie expressed the possibility that the dome room in Chambers could be improved for use in this
course. Due to its success, the language lab will have to be expanded within the next five years. Addition of
another row of booths in the present lab may be expected in the near future. Further expansion will be delayed,
however, as it will be very expensive.

AIR-CONDITIONING
Chambers auditorium is also in need of renovation. At present, plans call for air-conditioning the auditorium, providing dressing rooms, and
improving the lighting, especially on the stage. Changes are also envisioned which would improve the acoustics.
