PAGE FOUR

Oskeegan: Sports Fan And Kappa Sig Mascot

“Oskeegan, what do you think of Davidson?” The reply: “Iss good school. One bes’ schools in th’ Souf. Yessuh, bes’ school in Souf ... Bes’ school in Souf. Yessuh.”

Last week THE DAVIDSONIAN interviewed one of Davidson's most loyal admirers — and by far her most faithful sports fan — Oskeegan. His real name is Preston Sloan — “Thass S-l-o-a-n... Idn't it? I think ‘at's it... Sump'm like ‘at.”

Oskeegan has attended every athletic contest Davidson's teams have played here for the past thirty odd years. “I don’ miss no game,” he says. Before that he was mascot of the baseball team. “I use ta travel with 'em," he mused. “They give me a uniform — red cap, pants — everything.”

Even before that, Oskeegan was an outstanding baseball player in his own right. He was shortstop for Negro teams in Durham and Winston-Salem, and many of his student “friends” felt that he could have played major league ball if given the chance. Unfortunately, rules prohibiting Negroes squelched his career.

Today Oskeegan is employed by Jackson Cleaners — cleaning rugs after closing time. We found him there last Thursday.

KAPPA SIG MASCOT

“Oskeegan, how do you like Davidson boys?” “Fine boys,” he said. “Fine boys.” He thought for a minute. “You Kappa Sig?” he asked. “Why do you want to know that, Oskeegan?” “Kappa Sigs the best,” he returned promptly. “I keep up with the Kappa Sigs.” “Why do you think they’re the best?” we pressed. “They been best for las’ 20 years. Yeah, an’ 35 years, too.” “I'm a Kappa Sig,” he added as an afterthought. He pointed toward Oak Row and continued, “See them old houses? Kappa Sigs use’ to be in that one ‘ere. I was they mascot — use’ to run get ’em cigarettes and co-colas.”

“SHAVED MY HEAD”

“Doc? Jim Hendrix and some Kappa Sigs ’nitiated me once.” He smiled and stood up a little straighter. “Took me out an’ shaved all my hair off,” he chuckled, shifting his weight to the other worn-out loafer. “They use’ to take you up in the woods at Egg Rock: “Yessuh.” He wouldn't tell us anymore about his initiation. “It was secret.”

He told us how he got his name, though. It was pretty simple. “Me’n some Kappa Sigs was sittin’ up at the River under a tree, jus’ smoking,” he said. “When one of 'em turned and said ‘We gotta give you a new name.’ The other’n said ‘Le’s call ’im Oskeegan.’ They sat there for half hour trying to figure out how to spell it, then gave up and jus’ said ‘You be Oskeegan.’”

This speech made him thirsty and we bought him a “Peps-cola.” He looked at us for a few moments. “Y'all drink beer?” he queried. “Yeah.” “Uh. Oh.” Another pause. “Tell you what. B’fore y’all go home... Le’s go up the road.” We promised him we would, then bade him goodbye and started walking away. “Hey.” We turned around. “Y'all bring me some old shirts, now, when you come.” That’s Oskeegan.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

WELCOME FOR FINE FOOD DURING COMMENCEMENT COME TO STONESTREET CAFE REGULAR PARENTS DINNERS PLATE LUNCHES WESTERN STEAKS CHOPS — CHICKEN SANDWICHES CLOSED ONLY MONDAY: 1 A.M. ‘til 6 A.M. OPEN 24 HOURS REST OF WEEK STONESTREET CAFE 450 N. MOORESVILLE MAIN

In Charlotte, It's THE STARLIGHT ROOM For Fine Food Steaks And Lobsters Are The Chef's Specialty

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

LAKE NORMAN, WHICH will come into existence when Cowan’s Ford Dam is completed some time next year, will furnish the Davidson student with a new area of recreation. The multi-million dollar dam is being built by Duke Power Company and will provide electrical power for the Piedmont area. (Davidsonian Photos By McCutchen)

New Lake Will Provide Recreational Facilities

New recreational facilities will be available to Davidson students and fraternities next year when the Cowans Ford Dam is completed and the immense Lake Norman, which will hold the water used to operate the generators in the dam, begins to fill.

The Duke Power Company has begun work on a multi-million dollar dam in adjacent Iredell County which will flood 32,500 acres in four counties around Davidson. The lake, which will be partially filled late in the spring of 1962, will provide facilities for boating, fishing, and other water sports.

PRESTON SLOAN - OSKEEGAN hasn’t missed a Davidson ball game in over 40 years. Jim Hendrix, his companion above, is the son of one of the men who initiated him around 1926. (Davidsonian Photo By Wells)

Faculty Loses 10 Members To New Posts, Retirement

Ten professors will leave Davidson next year. One will be going on sabbatical, two retiring, and seven moving to new positions elsewhere.

Dr. Paul A. Marrotte, associate professor of history, will spend his sabbatical year studying at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Financed by the Carnegie Foundation, he will be enrolled in the East Asiatic Studies Program. Marrotte will especially study the field of modern China. He will also audit an undergraduate course in Asian studies, meeting periodically with its teachers to discuss the method of lecturing.

Both Dr. George Watts and Dr. Henry Fulcher will be retiring next year.

Assistant Professor of English Dr. R. J. Calhoun plans to teach at Clemson College next year. Clemson is presently expanding its course in humanities and plans to add an English honors program. Next year Dr. Calhoun will teach some courses in American literature and will spend more time in research. He plans to publish a book on ante-bellum Southern literary criticism this summer and later a study on Robert Lowell for the Barnes and Noble American Authors and Critics Series.

Other professors or instructors who will not be back next year are C. T. Martoccia, R. W. Tyson, C. M. Hummel, W. W. Daniel, J. Frank West, Pat Elliott, and J. Wilson McCutchan.

Last year 14 professors left the college, of which three were on leave of absence. Dr. Bruce Jackson will be the only professor returning from his year’s leave of absence.Entertainment 2115 N. Cali ED 3-7144 For Reservations Tryon THE RICHARDS COMPANY

Public boating and swimming, and lots will be on sale which could be bought by fraternities. Many of the prospective lots will be slightly over one mile beyond the town limits of Davidson. The College has applied for recreational sites on the lake along with about 4,000 eastern Carolina residents. The construction company has not yet begun to sell property on the lake, and no definite price has been fixed. Along the 500-mile shoreline of Lake Norman, there will be numerous areas open to the public and parking facilities for more than 30,000 cars. The lake will be ideal for boating and may encourage such sports as crew and sailing at Davidson. The hydro-electric power plant controlled by the dam will be the fourth largest, privately-owned facility of its type in the country. It will serve the Piedmont area from Virginia to South Georgia with 350,000 kilowatts of electric power. The dam, which is presently being constructed about ten miles from Davidson, is a concrete and earth type structure over 7,000 feet long. The maximum length of the spillway will be 465 feet with a height of 130 feet. Such a great quantity of concrete is being used in the dam, that if it were used in another way, it would be enough to build an eight-lane highway to “Hattie’s.” Lake Norman will be 33.6 miles long. It is being carved out of farmland, residential sections, and highways. Commercial timber is removed, then tractors clear away the debris to be burned. The lake will serve also as a reservoir for Davidson, Mooresville, and other small towns. The estimated cost for the entire project is between 60 and 65 million dollars.

Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, Bob Waugh was recently elected president of the IFC. Waugh, who is a pre-med major, is also vice-president of AED. He is from Bethesda, Md.

FRIDAY MAY 12, 1961

ODK Taps Twelve Students (Continued From Page One)

IAN, is at Davidson on both a Baker and Proctor & Gamble Scholarship. He received the D. Grier Martin DAVIDSONIAN Award in 1959 and has served on the “Y” Cabinet. As the representative from Presently studying at the U. of Vienna, George Trask will be president of the Student Body next year. He has previously been 2nd vice-president and sophomore representative on the Student Council. Trask is a KA from Beaufort, S. C. Associate Professor of English William F. Goodykoontz, has worked extensively with the Vagabonds this year. Dr. Goodykoontz has also been a member on the Fraternity Faculty Committee.

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Renew your subscription now so that you may receive all next year’s DAVIDSONIANs beginning with the first issue next September. Don’t miss important campus news. Only $3.00

Name
Address
City
—I Enclose Three Dollars
—Bill Me Later

The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N. C.

You're needed just as your father and grandfather were. It’s an obligation that a lot of qualified college men have to meet...that of serving your country, when and where you are needed. And the Air Force needs college-trained men as officers. This is caused by the rapidly expanding technology that goes with hypersonic air and space flight. Your four years of college have equipped you to handle complex jobs. You have the potential to profit from advanced training... then put it to work. There are several ways to become an officer: First, there is Air Force ROTC. Another program, relatively new, is Officer Training School. Here the Air Force commissions certain college graduates, both men and women, after three months’ training. The navigator training program enables you to win a flying rating and a commission. And, of course, there's the Air Force Academy. An Air Force officer’s starting salary averages out to about what you could expect as a civilian. First, there’s your base pay. Then add on such things as tax-free rations and quarters allowances, free medical and dental care, retirement provision, perhaps flight pay, and 30 days’ vacation per year. It comes to an attractive figure. One thing more. As an officer, you will become eligible for the Air Force Institute of Technology. While on active duty many officers will win graduate degrees at Air Force expense. Why not contact your local Air Force Recruiter? Or write to Officer Career Information, Dept. SCLS, Box 7608, Washington 4, D.C., if you want further information about the navigator training or Officer Training School programs.

U.S. Air Force
There’s a place for professional achievement on the Aerospace Team!