CAGERS PLAY THREE LOOP GAMES (See Page Three) The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College SHUE STATES
INTEGRATION CASE (See Page Two) VOL. XLIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1961

Winter Sweethearts

On February 15 Drifters, Jungaleers Spark Fun

Midwinters Dance Weekend began this evening with the presentation of “The Matchmaker” by the Vagabonds, followed by a semi-formal dance
featuring the Clemson Jungaleers. Tomorrow, The Drifters backed by the Doc Bagby Combo, will appear in an afternoon concert at
2 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. This group will also play for the Saturday night Sigma Chi dance from 8 to
12 p.m. Dress for the dance will be informal.

Nancy Sustare Sigma Chi
Evia Ligon Sigma Nu
Jackie Neely Sig Ep

Vagabonds ‘Under The Influence’

By LEONARD RICHARDSON
Davidsonian Feature Editor

If the cast of “The Matchmaker” seemed intoxicated tonight it was with excitement and not from the champagne and red
wine called for by the script. Strawberry punch masqueraded as wine and ginger ale bubbled like champagne in the Vagabonds’
production of Thornton Wilder’s four-act comedy in Chambers auditorium last night and tonight. The Slater Service supplied the soup, salad,
chicken, and “pheasant” in Act II of the play. When four characters seemed to be eating pheasant and two were
downing chicken between their lines, it was actually chicken for all six. Another bit of theatrical trickery involved substituting mashed
bananas for the squash mentioned in the script. George B. Shaw, who manages the Slater System at Davidson, co-operated with
the Vagabonds by providing all the food for the two dress rehearsals and both productions this week. Alpha Tau Omega
fraternity helped the Vagabonds find last-minute properties by sending their pledges on a scavenger hunt during Greek Week. “You'd be
amazed at the number of liquor bottles they found in this town,” one of the actors commented. The rest of
the properties were pulled out of attics, or borrowed from people in town by Mrs. Olin Puckett. Don Stowell, who
played the part of Malachi, said that the old-fashioned wire rat-trap found in Walter Bost’s attic in Morganton was the
most interesting property on the set. “Why?” he was asked. “Because,” Stowell chuckled, “it isn’t every day that somebody stumbles
into a rat trap.”

About 700 girls arrived at Davidson this afternoon for the dance weekend. Approximately 600 of the girls are staying in
Belk and Richardson Dorms; the others are staying in the guest house and in town. “The Matchmaker,” a farce by
Thornton Wilder, was presented to the dance-weekend audience at 7 p.m. this evening.

Betas Retain Trophy For Pledge Program

Greek Week came to its unofficial end Thursday in chapel when IFC announced the results of the contest for the
Greek Week trophy. The coveted award was presented to the pledge class of Beta Theta Pi. This is the second
consecutive year the Betas have won the trophy. The four judges for the 1960-61 program were John Kuykendall, Mrs. J.
B. Moore, Col. W. L. Adams, and Dr. J. D. Kelton. Each of the 12 pledge classes was evaluated with
regard to

Kuykendall Notes Few Greek Errors

Greek Week 1961 was conducted in a generally satisfactory manner, according to John Kuykendall, liaison between the faculty and fraternities.
There was only one major infraction of the rules which required the attention of the executive committee. Kuykendall said that
several minor technical violations were brought to the attention of his office, but only one was deemed necessary to take
before the college executive committee. He said that in most cases there was a genuine willingness to comply with the
regulations and work for the betterment of the system. Kuykendall said that he was “impressed with the overall excellence” of
the Greek Week programs in general, and the decision by the judging committee for the best pledge class was not
an easy one.

THREE OUT OF FOUR?—If it snows tonight, it will be the third snowy Midwinters out of the last four. This
is a scene from last year’s weekend snowfall which cancelled after-dance parties and forced many girls to make emergency arrangements
to get back to their schools. But the U.S. Weather Bureau at Douglas Airport says no snow this year.

Builds Up His Forces

An extra night watchman has been added for the Midwinters Dance Weekend, John C. Bailey, Jr., dean of students, announced
Thursday through a memorandum to the student body. J. C. Washam, the regular substitute night watchman, is assisting Cop Linker
over the three-day period. Dean Bailey termed this change “the only addition” in the formal statement of the college’s position
on the drinking rule. “We aren't going to stop people just to be stopping them,” Dean Bailey commented. “The watchmen
will step in only if there is a problem situation.” The statement clarified the watchmen’s right to request identification of
students, and examine any dormitory room, fraternity house or automobile in the case of a problem situation.

Board Of Trustees Convenes For Regular Winter Meeting

By DON SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Davidson's 51-man Board of Trustees will convene on Wednesday, Feb. 15 in Chambers building, for its regular winter meeting. Dr.
J. McDowell Richards, president, is expected to call the session to order about 9 a.m. During the day-long series of
meetings, several issues are likely to be discussed. THE DAVIDSONIAN has learned that a new dean of students has already
been proposed by the executive committee, and his name awaits approval only by the trustees.

SHUE’S PROPOSAL

As reported in last week's DAVIDSONIAN, Henry Shue has requested permission to present a proposal for removing the “discriminatory stipulations”
of the college's admission policy. Shue's request will be answered one way or the other when the board’s agenda is
decided. Shue, who feels that Davidson should take the lead in desegregation with “a Christian view of men,” has enlisted
support from other individuals in

Sailstad noted that he “expected the meeting to be well-attended.” When asked about the possibility of student-trustee discussion groups, he
said that these meetings were usually held at the May meeting of the trustees.

Students To Elect '61 Handbook Ed.Kuykendall emphasized, “The fraternities and their leaders are to be commended, because it was only
through the cooperation of the fraternities as groups that the program was successful.” He added that he was “especially appreciative
of the program chairmen and fraternity presidents keeping in close touch with my office. This did an effective job of
which its overall Greek Week program, its Greek Week projects, its skit, and its Homecoming decoration.”

The Betas’ Greek Week program was headed by pledge trainer Loy McKeithen. Johnny Spratt is president of the pledge class.
The fraternity’s program included a twofold pledge project centered around the North Carolina Orthopedic Hospital. One phase of the project
was the construction of badly-needed cabinets and shelves, and the repairing of some hospital furniture. The other part of the
project is a continual program of visits by the pledge class to entertain the children and young people of the
hospital. These visits will be made periodically throughout the rest of the year.

RED CHINESE SKIT

The skit which won first place for the Betas in Skit Night competition was a “stab” at Davidson and its
policies. The college was represented as a commune in Communist China and the production was staged with elaborate props and
costumes. Beta Theta Pi also won an honorable mention in the Homecoming decoration contest. Their display was based on the
name of the Richmond team, the Spiders. A football player was depicted as spraying a huge spider on a web
attached to a goal post.

PIKA’S SECOND

The second place winners in the Greek Week trophy competition were the pledges of Pi Kappa Alpha. Their Homecoming display
won first place, and their project was the painting of Miss Louise Sloane’s home in Davidson.

Sigma Phi Epsilon took third place in the Greek Week judging. The Sig Ep pledges had two projects. The first
involved cataloging the issues of off-campus functions. In view of Shue's case, see page two. Any investigation would depend on
complaints or reports from others. “We aren't making any radical changes, but only taking what are considered normal steps for
enforcing our position,” Dean Bailey said. “We aren't planning to take actions which would turn this into a guarded campus,
but neither do we expect to close our eyes to violations, provided they come to our attention.”

“The dance weekend necessitated the addition of another watchman in the opinion of the Executive Committee, which adopted the memorandum
Wednesday. Anytime we feel it is necessary or desirable we will put on two or more men,” Dean Bailey explained.
The statement served to remind the student body of the administration’s position, particularly in light of student body action last
semester in removing the drinking rule from the constitution.

Letters were written to each trustee last week by two students who share Shue's position calling for a reconsideration of
his efforts to put the matter before the trustees. (For a full view of Shue's case, see page two). The
student body will elect an editor for The Wildcat Handbook for 1961 in assembly Monday. Louis Burton and Frank Mansell
have been nominated for the post by the Publications Board. The handbook is now under the jurisdiction of the board.
The YMCA relinquished sponsorship of the publication last semester.

A committee composed of the editors of the other three campus publications, several members of the administration, and the handbook’s
new editor will determine the book's contents. It probably will be expanded considerably and may include pictures of the incoming
freshmen. Mansell and Burton were nominated Wednesday. Bert Keller, senior, and Danny McRight, junior, requested trustees to discuss the matter
next week. In its regular meeting Tuesday, the YMCA cabinet also went on record as officially backing Shue and desiring
new trustee action on the integration issue. The cabinet plans to notify each trustee of its position before the board
convenes.

JUST ROUTINE

A series of preliminary committee meetings is scheduled for Feb. 14. The executive committee of the board will meet that
day. Robert J. Sailstad, assistant to President Martin, said that this session was “just the routine meeting of the board.”
When asked about the possibility of the trustees’ decision in the spring of 1959.

The handbook serves primarily as a guide for new students. Normally distributed during the summer, this year’s copy was not
received until November because of printing difficulties. There will be a meeting for all those interested in writing for THE
DAVIDSONIAN this semester, Wednesday, 5 p.m. in the newspaper office (upstairs in the Union). No previous experience is necessary.

The Student Council announced the appointment of members to this year’s Elections Board and also continued revising the new constitution
during the council meeting Monday night. The Election Board will begin functioning immediately. Its first task is to supervise the
election of the editor of The Wildcat Handbook. This will take place during next Monday’s chapel period. The board met
Thursday afternoon, but was unable to choose its chairman because a quorum was not present.

In accordance with the present constitution, the Elections Board is composed of four Independents and one representative from each social
fraternity. All of these men are seniors. Members of the board are: Charlie Ringe, John Denton, Sam Pope, Jim Ratchford,
Tom Colvin, Charlie Patterson, LeRoy Allen, Quinton Boyd, Dave Craig, Finley Holmes, George Gabel, Jim Allen, Ned Davis, Jim Nuckolls,
Bob Blake, and Richard Nash.

In further action, the Student Council came within striking distance of completing the revising and approving of the proposed constitution.
Barring unforeseen difficulties, President Henry Shue announced the constitution would be presented to the student body in assembly Monday, Feb.
20. The council decided to place the president of the Freshman Council on the Student Council next year. He will
sit as a non-voting member during the first semester and as a voting member second semester. This will give the
freshman class two representatives on the council, the president of the Freshman Council and the Freshman Advisor.

After lengthy discussion, the council voted to include in the constitution the student regulations as stated in the old constitution.
The regulation containing the drinking rule will not be included since it was recently removed by a student body vote.
Another lengthy debate ensued over the question of whether to include the Honor Court trial procedure in the constitution. A
proposal to do so was voted down. However, a motion to place the trial procedure of the Honor Court in
the by-laws was passed.

It was pointed out during the meeting that much of the present constitution is being placed in the by-laws instead
of in the main body of the proposed constitution. This includes such things as the new Freshman Court of Control,
the Elections Board, and the oaths taken by officers. The advantage in this is that changes can then be made
in these areas by the Student Council itself without having to go through the formality of presenting the change to
the student body.
