FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sideline Comments
By STEVE CLARK

BMIC

MUCH TO THE disappointment of many Davidson fans, this year’s BMIC award no longer belongs to our own Bill Shumaker.

For the unenlightened, BMIC stands for “Biggest Man In Conference.” For several years, Shumaker, a 245-lb. senior tackle, has been
the distinguished holder of this title. His closest competitors last year included Mike Zeno, 240-lb. guard for VPI; Bill Sizemore,
239-lb. tackle for West Virginia; John Candler, 238-lb. tackle for VMI; and Joe Monti, 240-lb. tackle at Furman. But, alas!
What do they feed these young boys now?

The new influx of players from last year’s freshman teams has enough Goliaths in it to put Shumaker a mere
fourth in the conference—almost in the dwarf category! This year’s BMIC award goes to Richmond's sophomore tackle, Buddy Waite, who
at 265 seems pretty well assured of a three-year reign. Following Waite are George Hinds, 257-lb. sophomore tackle at Furman,
Bunky Brooks, 247-lb. sophomore tackle from West Virginia, and, alas, our Shumaker.

A-C, AN EASY CHAIR, AND A FLICK

FOR THE BENEFIT of those who are already looking forward to the basketball season, we dropped into Lefty Driesell’s air-conditioned
(A-C) office the other day to find out the good word. He and his assistant, Joe Hunt, were busy watching
some films of one of this year’s opponents, so we dropped down in an easy chair to watch a thrilling
game. (Our future opponent won the game by one point.)

“I believe that’s a 2-3 they’re running, Joe,” Lefty stated as he jotted down a few notes. “Man, they're letting
that guy have that corner shot. Joe, I swear we can take these guys. Look how they loaf back down
court.” And so on went the comments. We got the feeling that this man, who lives basketball 24 hours a
day, is going to surprise some more people again this season. Where or when we don’t know. But either the
Wake Forest or Duke game would be good for a starter, while the Southern Conference Tournament at Richmond in March
would be good for a nightcap.

So far Driesell has just been trying to round his boys into shape. His main concern right now is the
game with the freshmen on Monday night, November 27, in the gym. Admission will be charged, with all proceeds going
to the Living Endowment Fund.

THE CRYSTAL BALL

Another disastrous weekend last week (2-4) put our record at 22-13, but we peeped again into our crystal ball and
saw the following:

Richmond has played a lot better ball than their 2-4 record indicates. Their tremendous recruiting program a couple of years
ago has given them more personnel with the potential to be the most explosive in the conference. Foreseeing another possible
VPI, we’ll have to stick with Richmond’s manpower though. Pick Richmond, 21-14.

Xavier (Ohio) over The Citadel, 14-7; Furman over Wofford, 21-13; George Washington over Boston U., 15-6; VMI over William &
Mary, 13-6; Florida State over VPI, 12-0; and Army over West Virginia, 26-13.

CITY STADIUM IS SCENE OF 2 P. M. BATTLE

Dole Installs New Strategy For Spiders
BY BILL PRIDGEN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Coach Bill Dole’s Wildcats meet the University of Richmond tomorrow at 2 p.m. in Richmond, Virginia's City Stadium. The 'Cats
will be attempting to avenge a 35-6 Homecoming loss at Davidson to the Spiders last year. The Davidson-Richmond series currently
favors the Spiders, 9-7-1.

CHANGES

Dole and his staff have planned some definite changes for tomorrow's game. The game will mark the first time in
two years that the ‘Cats have not operated under a two-platoon system. Dole will be substituting two units, but each
will stay in on offense and defense.

“There will be no offensive or defensive units as such,” remarked Dole. The reason for the change is obviously to
boost the ‘Cats’ sagging offensive play of the past few games. Following last week's 13-0 loss to VMI, Davidson carries
a 2-3 record to Richmond. The Spiders are 2-4, and have been hot and cold all season. They have beaten
West Virginia (35-28) and George Washington (16-15). Losses have been to Army (7-24), VMI (6-8), The Citadel (6-24), and Florida
State (7-13).

MORE OFFENSE

The Spiders sport a multiple offense, which is potentially as good as any in the conference. Comments Dole, “They have
more offense than anyone else we play. Mel Rideout, their quarterback, is one of the best in the conference.” Last
season, Rideout completed 85 passes for 904 yards—15th best in the nation. In this season's opening game he picked up
where he had left off by throwing three touchdown passes and running another over as the Spiders swamped West Virginia.
For this performance, Sports Illustrated tabbed Rideout as the nation’s “Back of the Week.”

STOUDT DASHES

Also potent in the Richmond attack is halfback Earl Stoudt, All-Conference a year ago and a pre-season All-American candidate this
year. Stoudt dashed 28 yards to paydirt with only a few minutes left to play in Richmond’s comeback victory.

Main weakness in the Richmond wheel is an inexperienced line. Hit hard by graduation, Coach Edwin Merrick has had to
use untried sophomores up front. Best of the linemen include 6-6 end John Hilton, Rideout’s favorite target, 225-lb. tackle Joe
Teefey, guard.

UNC Dumps Booters; Gamecocks Here Today
BY JOHNNY SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

With a touch of flashing speed, the North Carolina soccer team pushed over two goals in the second half to
deal Davidson’s scrappy Wildcats their first loss here on Tuesday. Coach Harry Fogelman, though not exultant over the loss, was
nevertheless well pleased with his team’s play. “We played a good game,” said Fogelman. “Everyone played well and tried hard.”

JUST MISSED

In fact, under closer analysis, the victory was rather fragile. Twice in the first quarter and once in the third,
‘Cat boots just missed the Tarheels’ nets. In addition, both UNC goals came on breaks and not set-up plays. “They
were just too fast,” said Fogelman. “Our wingbacks and halfbacks had to drop back for defense and we consequently couldn’t
get our offense started.”

The Carolina coach had high praise for Wildcat goalie Jamie McCutchen following the game. McCutchen made several beautiful saves that
prompted the visiting mentor to compare him with last year’s All-American Claude Finney. Also outstanding for Davidson were forward Allen
Jones, back Frank Tulloch, and halfback Gary Lane.

TEMPERS FLARE

Tempers flared several times during the heat of battle much to the delight of the estimated 500 fans. Richardson scholar
from England, forward Fred Schoen, halfback.Ben Davis, and center Jack Yaffa. Davidson travels to Williamsburg, Va., next weekend for a
contest with William & Mary. Hunt greeted 15 aspirants and has spent most of the practice sessions thus far teaching
them the system and rounding them into shape. The Wildkittens will be sparked this year by 6-9 high school All-American
Fred Hetzel, one of the most sought-after prep stars in the nation last year. Hetzel will be accompanied by other
outstanding players such as Don Davidson, Buddy DuBose, Barry Teague, and Paul Briggs.

Frosh Cagers
Probably the best freshman basketball team in the history of Davidson College began practice last week under the guidance of
Coach Joe Hunt. The Phi Delts took two giant steps this week toward a possible championship with two 12-6 victories
over the Kappa Sigs and the SAE’s. Sparked by Andy Sherrill, Nat Harris, and John Harris, the Delts clipped the
Sigs on Monday, when Sherrill threw a last-second, deciding TD pass to John Harris. Trailing 6-0 with a couple of
minutes left, the Kappa Sigs began a last-ditch drive. All-Star tailback Johnny Rogers completed a 36-yard pass to Jim Woods
for a first down on the Delts’ 18. Two plays later, Rogers hit Johnny Faulkenberry in the endzone as the
latter made a diving catch. On the extra point, Sherrill beautifully broke up an intended pass to Jim Hendricks. The
Sigs kicked off, and a few plays later the Delts scored the winning TD.

On Wednesday, the regulation SAE-Phi Delt game ended in a 6-6 tie. In the overtime (during which each team gets
4 plays to score or gain the most yardage), the Delts scored on a 4th down play as Nat Harris
hit Sherrill, who flipped to Hill Wellford, who flipped to John Harris, who outran the SAE secondary for the score.
The SAE’s, sparked by Mac Smythe, J. D. Simpson, and Tommy Tuttle, stormed right back to the Delts’ 9 in
two plays. But two straight incomplete passes ended SAE hopes.

Other scores this week: Monday—Phi Gams 14, Pi Kapps 7; Sigma Chis 13, SAE’s 0; and KA's 32, Pikas 12.
Wednesday—the ATO’s defeated the Sigma Nus on yardage after a 7-7 tie; Kappa Sigs 73, SPE’s 6; and Betas 19,
Phi Gams 0.

Flickerball Standings (through Wednesday)
W L
Phi Delts 7 1
Betas 6 1
Kappa Sigs 7 2
KA's 5 2
Phi Gams 6 3
SAE’s 5 3
Sigma Chis 4 3
ATO's 4 4
Independents 3 5
SPE's 3 5
Sigma Nus 1 7
Pikas 0 8
Pi Kapps 0 8

This year's varsity squad could possibly be one of the best in the history of the school. Paced by Captain
Butch LeDoyen, Tom Wright, Ken Barger, Jim Alexander, Ben McCoy, Harry Brown, and Tom Brown, all lettermen, and sophomores Billy
Mills, Sammy Glascow, Russell Walls, and Joe Jones, Davidson's immediate mat future looks bright.

Harriers Win 4th At Rainy Richmond
The Davidson varsity and freshman cross-country teams will meet VMI here this coming Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. Last Friday, a
powerful Furman team whipped the ’Cat harriers as Sterling Martin lost his first race of the year. So strong were
the Paladins that Martin came in fifth. This past Wednesday, Coach Heath Whittle and his men traveled to rain-soaked Richmond,
Va., for a meet with the University of Richmond. Led by Martin and Tim Spiro, Davidson won 18-43. MacDonald of
Richmond nabbed third place, and Davidson’s David Gilmour finished fourth. Martin's time was 20:43 minutes over an unknown distance. “A
bridge was washed out on their regular course,” commented Whittle, “so no one knew the actual distance of the revised
course. You know, they had 7 inches of rain up that way last weekend.”

Parker Gives Call To Frosh Wrestlers
Wrestling Coach Charlie Parker announced today a need for more freshmen wrestlers. “There are only six out for the team
so far,” stated Parker. Among the freshmen already standouts, including Mike Bissard from Owasso, Michigan. Bissard was a 120-lb. district
champion and placed 5th in the Michigan State Tournament. Meanwhile, varsity practice officially begins this coming Wednesday, Nov. 1.

Freshman basketballer FRED HETZEL hooks a shot over the outstretched arm of DON DAVIDSON in a practice scrimmage. Hetzel at
6-9, and Davidson at 6-6 provide this year’s frosh with plenty of height. (Staff Photo by Joe McCutchen.)

The frosh schedule is as follows:
December 2—at Wake Forest, 5—at Duke, 8—at South Carolina, 15—Furman HERE,
January 7—Wingate HERE, 9—North Carolina HERE, 6—Citadel HERE, 11—at Clemson, 27—Appalachian HERE, 30—Oak Ridge HERE,
February 1—Wake Forest HERE, 3—at Wingate, 8—at North Carolina, 10—South Carolina HERE, 12—Clemson HERE, 15—at Furman, 20—Duke HERE, and 24—at
Citadel.

This afternoon the other Carolina, the Gamecocks from Columbia, S. C., visited the campus for a soccer match. Davidson was
favored in the contest. Next week the ‘Cats play Belmont Abbey for the second time.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Projects of the Bell System
Our job is providing communications of all kinds, wherever needed—whether in the northern snows to flash word of possible enemy
missile attack, or in your home or college, or in serving the nation's business. When we can’t fill a need
off the shelf, then we start fresh and create the answer to the problem. We've done that hundreds of times.
We began transatlantic radiotelephone service in 1927. Then we developed the world's first undersea telephone cables to speed calls between
continents. We handled the world’s first telephone conversation via satellite. And we have started development of an important world-wide communications
system employing satellites. When industry and government needed a way of gathering huge amounts of coded information from distant points,
we were ready with our vast telephone network and Data-Phone, which can transmit mountains of data at extremely high speeds.
And so it goes—Long Distance service, Direct Distance Dialing, the Transistor, the Solar Battery—a succession of firsts which goes back
to the invention of the telephone itself. Universal communications—the finest, most dependable anywhere—are what we deliver. Inside: for home, office,
or plant. Outside: on land, under the sea, through the air, to the far reaches of space.
