Che Bavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials are the Opinion of the Editor)

The Death Of Segregation

Racial segregation at Davidson College died a sudden, strange, ironic death last Wednesday. It was almost two years exactly from
the day when the trustees laconically stated that it was not in the best interests of Davidson College to admit
Negroes at that time. In a release very nearly as terse as the famous “best interests” statement, the trustees announced
that the college would now be willing to admit up to three qualified Congolese students. This was a major breakthrough
for a working Christianity in a Christian institution. But we cannot help wondering at the paradox here. Why should Davidson
accept three Negroes at the request of the Board of World Missions when our own General Assembly made a plea
for educational equality seven years ago?

Upon first thought, it seems easier this way. In "Only in America," Harry Golden tells a story about a Pittsburgh
Negro who made a tour of the South wearing a turban. He was welcomed into the most exclusive hotels and
in one Deep Southern city a ladies’ society sent him flowers and asked him to make a speech. Somehow, a
foreign Nigger is a little different from a Mecklenburg County Nigger. But will it be easier? These young Congolese will
not likely come wearing turbans. But they may come with a deep, bitter taste of apartheid in their mouths. They
may be surprised that the community which has accepted them as educational equals does not always accept them as social
equals. They may not care to buy their cheese crackers at the soda shop and then get out. They may
balk at sitting in the balcony with a bunch of beered-up young bucks at the Saturday night movie in Mooresville.

More than arguments against admitting the Congolese, these considerations are challenges to make the admittance of the Congolese work. From
the standpoint of personal relations, we feel that the trustees were wrong if they assumed that it is going to
be easier this way. They were right, however, in realizing that something had to be done.

A Plan For Underachievers

Last week Dean John C. Bailey stated flatly that there is no program or policy for combating “underachievement” at Davidson
College. His statement was made in response to a “growing student misconception.” Those ugly rumors will get around. It scared
a good many people who are frankly, unabashedly review-divers and spot box addicts. Why isn’t there a program for the
underachievers? In recent issues, this newspaper has criticized Davidson’s administration for what we feel are severe inadequacies in several departments
of the faculty. But education is a two-way proposition. In a speech last spring, President D. Grier Martin said, “...
it is almost impossible to make a distinction in importance between faculty and students because neither is of value without
the other.”

What is an underachiever? It's a student who racked up 520-plus scores on the college board but can't make his
grades for fraternity initiation. It’s a merit scholar who slides along with a C average. These people negate good professors;
they are a drag on the college’s academic progress. All of us underachieve a little. Nobody puts out 100 percent
all the time. But the underachievers are chronic—they are addicted to laziness, stricken by spring fever twelve months a year.
Dean Bailey said that although there is no systematic program for underachievers, “the idea is sound and must be studied
carefully.” Dr. George L. Abernethy once suggested that students suspected of underachieving be asked to defend their right to remain
at Davidson College. This could be done both orally and in essay form. Dr. Abernethy’s idea would be a good
start on a bold plan. The ugly rumor could become reality. We think it would be a good thing.

The College

“It is time that we had uncommon schools, that we did not leave off our education when we begin to
be men and women. It is time that villages were universities...” - Henry David Thoreau

One often hears, particularly at commencement, the admonition: “Your education should not come to a halt with your graduation from
college.” Certainly, everyone recognizes that this advice carries an important message for the individual, yet it perhaps can also set
forth a great challenge to the college itself. Presently, the Davidson student undergoes a metamorphosis upon graduation. He ceases to
be the student and assumes the role of graduate, accepting the responsibility of supporting the college, financially and otherwise.

It seems to us, however, that perhaps two responsibilities are being dodged. One is the college's responsibility to stimulate a
continued intellectual relationship between the college and the alumnus. The other is the graduate’s responsibility to maintain an intellectual inquisitiveness
in spite of the fact that he is now removed from the core of his intellectual background—the college.

At present, Davidson is experimenting with a brand-new “Alumni College” plan in the spring. It has been highly successful for
those who have attended—but attendance has been limited to less than 100 and most of these alumni students were, by
necessity, men from the surrounding area. There is a better way of reaching alumni. This is through the Alumni Journal,
a magazine usually devoted to a feature or two, a short report on the faculty and administration, a word from
President Martin, and chatty notes on alumni. We feel that perhaps the Alumni Journal could be filled with material that
is a little more meaningful. Why not include texts from some of the most outstanding speeches, talks, and sermons delivered
here? Why not ask faculty members to debate controversial issues and report on new developments in their fields that might
interest the layman? Furthermore, why not extend a more insistent, more meaningful invitation to alumni to return to the college
for attractions like the Book-of-the-Year program and the Great Issues discussions? These measures could not help being good public relations.
The situation calls merely for a simple recognition of the challenge, not a dramatic revision of the college’s philosophy of
education. The resources are close at hand. Davidson has to a degree recognized the challenge, but it has not, as
far as we can see, set it forth as a goal of the college.

THE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF B. Millner

BUSINESS MANAGER Charlie Rowe

Associate Editors Tom Colvin

Feature Editor Leonard Richardson

Photographers Gene Wells, Jerry Abernathy

Managing Editors David Orien

Advertising Manager Olin Nisbet

Assignment Editor Mac Plaxico

Circulation Manager Jimmy Piatt

Sports Editor Bill Godwin

Assistant Bus. Manager Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

“Who's Uris? Why The Fuss? By Millner”

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

Tom Parker Attacks Integration Coverage

Dear Editor,

Two years ago the Davidson student body, assembled in chapel, applauded the statement “It is not in the best interest
of Davidson College to admit Negroes at this time.” Last year, through a clearly worded petition, they expressed their desire
that Davidson remain a segregated institution at least for the present time. Despite these setbacks, those on this campus who
favor integration have renewed their efforts to achieve that end. In the face of these renewed efforts, it is interesting
to consider the devices which they employ to gain their objectives, especially those which are used in an openly sympathetic
newspaper (which nonetheless declares itself in its letterhead to be “The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College”).

FIRST DEVICE

The first of these devices, attempted character assassination, is perhaps the most reprehensible. The trustees have taken a stand against
integration. It is therefore pointed out that one trustee doesn't know the correct name of the main college building; another
is not aware of the fact that students attend chapel three times a week; and allegedly a third, though he
receives the school newspaper every week, does not know either its correct name or that of the young man whose
articles criticizing him are published in it. The implication is clear: If these men are ignorant of such important details
as these, how can they be expected to reach a sound decision on the race question? A personal attack does
not refute a man’s stated opinion, but this seems to be an acceptable practice here.

SECOND DEVICE

A second popular device is the play on words. In supposedly objective articles, integration and those connected with this movement
are “courageous,” “fair play,” “higher law,” and “(cause which is) worthy of our all.” Those who favor segregation, and their
arguments, are “irrelevant;” “morally wrong,” “evil,” “injustice,” and “unloving and narrow.” The actions of the integrationists are “in keeping with
the best ideals of liberal education”; segregationists are “unwilling to face the issues.”

CHRISTIANITY

Next is the much-publicized idea which equates integration with Christianity. Many men who are devout and fundamental in their beliefs
prefer segregation, but the integrationists...have successfully succeeded in identifying their position with the true practice of the Christian ideal. The
fact that Davidson is segregated “is a major cause of our (the Davidson students’) disillusionment with the Christian faith”; if
we still profess to be Christians, “our Christianity (is) exposed as a mockery.” This list includes the use of half-truths
as fact, as when integration at the University of Georgia, executed under court order, is hailed as an example of
the breakdown of Jim Crow barriers due to the effect of “conscience.”

“STAND IN”

Sympathetically written news stories, such as the one about the “stand-in” in Charlotte, are on the front page of the
paper which is, as I have said, supposed to be “The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College.” I am
not here attempting to condemn either the segregationist or integrationist positions. What I am trying to say is this: It’s
good to fight for something in which you sincerely believe. But there's also an ideal known as responsible journalism, so
let’s keep the fighting on the up-and-up.

Tom Parker

Ackerman Slams Scripts ’n Pranks

Dear Editor,

Of four publications on campus this year; THE DAVIDSONIAN, “The Wildcat Handbook,” “The Student Regulations Book,” and the “Scripts ’n
Pranks,” only the latter has failed to represent Davidson and its student body creditably. It might be called taxation without
representation, for students “giving” money through the activities fee are not aware that from this fund the “Scripts ’n Pranks”
magazine is financially born. I wonder how long the publication would remain in its present state if it were forced
to rely on voluntary subscriptions for its financial support. Under the present system of compulsory subscription, it seems to me
that students should have something to say about its quality, good or BAD.

COULD BE GOOD

Don’t get me wrong. I think the “Scripts ‘n Pranks,” as designed to publish good scripts along with master pranks,
could be an exceptionally good and essential activity of the college. What bothers me is that there is no way
in which this Davidson institution can be forced to revamp itself, although the magazine has failed to live up to
its own self-made minimum standards. Maybe these words are too harsh, but let me emphasize what one student said, that
“the last issue of the S and P was a poor way of advertising the fact that Davidson has no
imaginative clowns or serious writers.” This is not merely the opinion of one student but is, I think, the feeling
of the majority of the student body. It seems that students can buy PLAYBOY, its counterpart, for less money and
get better jokes, pictures, and clothes ads than the S ‘n P has given in Vol. XVI, No. 2. Unfortunately,
original humor cannot be had in this latter magazine without being pregnant with sex, predictable intimations, and vulgarity.

APOLOGIZE

More unfortunately, good jokes can be had only through the grapevine. Of its contents, original or borrowed. Sadly enough, what
is printed in the S ‘n P is broadcast to the townspeople and to other townspeople as the best of
Davidson student literary effort. As the situation stands now, I suggest that the April issue be published in French or
German or Hebrew in order to put a little intellectualism into our magazine along with the ubiquitous Rush Wilson ads.
At any rate, the caliber of material that pervades the ink-stained pages of S and P should climb out of
its “dung heap”—not just to the level of the Chambermaids, but to that of the Davidson student.

Bank Ackerman

Focus

Duggan: “Dr. Frank” Is A Man Of Courage

Frank Porter Graham, a small and modest man came among us, impressed us, made us ashamed, left us wondering what
about the man accounts for his influence. What can we call the quality that marks the man? Call it simplicity.
Call it honesty, or humility, or goodness. Or call it eloquence, as you hear him speak of his America: “The
ideals of the American Revolution have gone around the world, have come home again and surely will not be renounced
in the house of their fathers... (they have gone ringing around the world and down the centuries and are still
singing in the hearts of the people.” Call it courage, the courage to stand fast when his idealism was attacked
as subversion, the courage to be patient when he was misunderstood, the courage to persist and persist.

Listen to him speaking of America’s migrant workers, “the most disinherited people in this land of liberty today,” and call
it compassion: “... the migrant workers, who with their children, in search of work, wander from state to state, season
to season, crop to crop, homeless, rootless, often defenseless and sometimes hopeless pilgrims in this historic land of the Pilgrim’s
hopes.” Ask him why he has lived as he has, and hear his answer: “I suppose I would participate in
any movement for freedom. I think it is better to know you'll be smeared than to fear you'll be smeared.”
And listen to his views: agree or disapprove, but call his quality conviction: “The American schools and colleges have taught
the Negro youth their heritage as Americans. America in her heart of hearts would not now have these youth renounce
their equal heritage and hopes as Americans... for the Negro youth are, in their hearts, standing up for the American
dream. “The origin of this movement was not in Moscow but in Carpenter’s Hall, Philadelphia, and its farther headwaters are
in the hills of Judea where a carpenter’s son taught the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of all people.
For this he was willing to die. For this we should have the will to live and carry on in
His spirit... “The sacrificial Cross, warm with the blood of human brotherhood, will triumph over all the fiery crosses lighted
with the hot oil of prejudice, privilege, and power... “At this critical stage, America must make clear to herself and
the world that the ideals of the American Revolution, the Bill of Rights and the great judicial decisions for the
equal freedom, dignity and opportunity of all people, are not only the past and historic but are also the present
and living source of America’s faith in herself, the world’s faith in America, and America’s moral influence for leadership on
the side of... a more abundant life for all people on the earth in this age of mortal peril and
immortal hope for all mankind.”

Frank Graham is not a realist. He is not a “practical man.” He is a dreamer, an impractical dreamer who
proves that a soft voice full of conviction is the loudest voice of all, that the face of strength is
a gentle face. He is another impractical dreamer who has changed things, a dreamer who marked the history of a
state. What is the quality that marks the man? Call it greatness.

NOSMO KING REPORTS

King Sees Davidson As A Holiday Haven

This is the third in a series of spasmodic reports by Nosmo King, amateur Davidson pollster and news analyst.

... Biggest news of the week is a new movement to have Davidson—or, more properly, the twin city area of
Davidson-Cornelius replace Fort Lauderdale as the springtime migration of U.S. college students. “Davidson—the fountain of knowledge where students go to
drink.” Ads have been prepared listing 108 and Demonstration. An effort is being made to secure Nosmo King’s cousin Martin
L. as is- tractions in the Davidson area—Mount Mourne to the north, Lake Norman to the west, and Erwin Lodge
to the west. The movement has united two rival groups on campus, the Westminster Fellowship Poster Committee and the Methodist
Poster Committee, for an all-out attempt to provide every campus in the United States with the same kind of sheet
the groups have handed out around Davidson during the past year. In light of this development, I predict that Pop
Copeland, Hugo, and Golf-balls will be added to the already effectively enlarged campus cop crew. Also, I predict that Hattie
will convert her establishment on the river into a yacht basin, thus forcing those movies into the Union or into
the AED meetings.

Two new courses will be added to the Davidson curriculum next year: Riot- a busy year indeed for the Westminster
Fellowship Poster Committee.

All students interested in aiding the Student Council in its effort to improve relations between this campus and that of
Johnson C. Smith will meet in the 4th-floor-Belk telephone booth.

In special interviews conducted during the past week, the writer has found an encouraging amount of interest in the Peon
Army. I predict that the group will move before Spring Holidays. An effort is being made to secure the services
of Mrs. Patrice Lumumba as majorette. She is a member of the Katanga branch of the Peon Movement, but recently
lost her job.
