PAGE FOUR

Sneden Keeps Fast On Vagabond Productions

BY WILLIAM WALKER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Professor John A. Sneden, the new dramatics director at Davidson, has a varied experience in education and an ambitious set
of projects for this year's student actors.

“I have not thought beyond the first semester, but again, we will probably want to take part in the State
Drama Festival. I am the vice-president of the Carolina Dramatic Association and would probably be considered derelict in my duties
if we did not.”

The biggest project on the Vagabond schedule will be a weekly workshop every Wednesday night beginning at 9:30, once the
Fine Arts Building has been occupied. It will take place in the Rehearsal Hall of the new building. “The workshop
is for anyone or any group who wants to have a skit or hold a reading,” Professor Sneden said. “Everyone
is welcome, and the Vagabonds will try to help them in any way possible.” The first reading is scheduled to
be the book of Job upon the opening of the workshop.

Dr. Thomas Will Be Vespers Speaker

Dr. John Uton Thomas, professor of theology at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, will speak to upperclassmen at vespers on
Sunday, Sept. 24, at 7:30 p.m. in the College Church. Dr. Thomas is a graduate of Washington and Lee University
and of the University of Edinburgh. He has held pastorates in Richmond, Va., and in Charleston, S. C. At present,
he is a Fellow of the National Council of Religion in Higher Education.

FRESHMAN VESPERS

The freshmen will continue to have vespers in Chambers auditorium throughout the rest of September and all of October. Dr.
George Staples, the Davidson College chaplain, will preside at each service. At the end of October, the freshmen will begin
attending vespers in the College Church. Dr. Staples mentioned that the vespers speakers during the coming school year will represent
a variety of denominations.

He is teaching a survey course in dramatic literature and theater history each semester as well as shouldering the responsibilities
which fall to the director of the Vagabonds. He came to Davidson as a result of the upsurge of interest
in fine arts here.

DRAMA WAS DEAD

“Drama was dead here for a long time,” he said. “Then, last year, Dr. Goodykoontz of the English department got
with some interested students and began doing plays. Under his leadership and dynamic personality, they blossomed. Then, with the advent
of the new fine arts building, it was realized that Dr. Goodykoontz could no longer carry the load of the
growing department in addition to his regular work.”

Sneden was born in Tenafly, New Jersey, and attended public schools there. In 1954, he entered the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he studied the classics and fine arts. He received his MA from Chapel Hill in
1960.

ROMANTIC INCLINATION

“I came to North Carolina by mistake,” he says. “Romantic inclinations led me. But I've never regretted it. Otherwise, I'd
never have found Chapel Hill, or ended up at Davidson.”

He plans to do three productions with the Vagabonds between now and the end of the fall term. “Of course,”
he says, “what we have pressing is the gala dedication performance for the new fine arts building.” This will be
the production of Noah, a play from the Wakefield Cycle, for the dedication of the Fine Arts Building on October
26. This play will be half serious, half slapstick, on much the same order as The Second Shepherd’s Play. It
will be given other nights so that the entire student body will have a chance of seeing it, but no
other dates have been determined.

Then he will direct the Vagabonds in “The Hasty Heart” by John Patrick, a sentimental comedy about British soldiers in
a World War II Burmese hospital. One of the parts is that of a Scotsman, and he hopes he can
find someone on the campus with a brogue.

DRAMA FESTIVAL

Next will come Eugene O’Neill's “The Hairy Ape,” and finally, the semester’s program will be capped by a Shakespeare play.
Just what Shakespeare play has not been decided, but Sneden says, “Dr. Goodykoontz will probably direct that one. I will
be the technical director and do the dirty work.”

THE OLD AND THE NEW members of the Vagabonds got acquainted Wednesday night. Included on the program was a tour
of the fine arts building and a skit performed by some of last year’s Vagabonds. The skit was performed on
the new stage wagon and the lighting of the fine arts building was used for the first time. Prof. Sneden
presented the Vagabond activities of the coming year. (Davidsonian Photo By Ted Scarboro)

Scholarship Deadline Nearing Due Dates

“Seniors interested in graduate fellowships and scholarships should contact a member of the Committee on Graduate Scholarships and Fellowships as
soon as possible,” advised Prof. G. L. Abernethy, chairman of the committee. “There are many excellent opportunities open to seniors
to continue with their education with the aid of one of these fellowships. They include Ford Foundation, Marshall, National Science
Foundation, Rockefeller Brothers, Rhodes, Danforth, and Woodrow Wilson Fellowships. The hurry in contacting a member of the committee is necessary,”
Abernethy explained, “because many of the fellowships have early deadlines for application. The deadline on Rhodes, Danforth, and Woodrow Wilson
Fellowships is Nov. 1.”

The members of the committee are Abernethy, Dr. W. P. Cumming, Dr. J. A. McGeachy, Dr. R. R. Bernard, and
Dr. J. B. Gallent. Their functions are to coordinate information about graduate scholarship opportunities, and nominate students for national fellowship
competition (the ones that need institutional approval). The committee has been functioning for the past decade and has compiled a
fine record. Up to this date, a total of 9 Danforth Fellowships, 10 Rockefeller Brothers Theological Fellowships, 13 Rhodes Scholarships,
and more than 30 Woodrow Wilson fellowships have been won by Davidson students in national competition. “Probably no other college
in the South can surpass our total record in national fellowship competition. We are proud of this record, and we
hope to see it maintained and improved,” stated Abernethy.

Betas Again Win Scholarship Trophy

Beta Theta Pi received the Inter-Fraternity Scholarship Trophy for the third straight year for last year’s achievement. The Betas won
with a scholastic average of 1.859, with the ATO's placing second with a 1.669 average. The top four fraternities were
all above last year’s all-student average of 1.669. Out of the last seven years, the Betas have won the trophy
four times, the ATO’s three. Both have dropped below second place only once in the last seven years. This year
scholarship will be a factor in awarding the Best Pledge Class Award. “I trust that more fraternities on campus will
make good scholarship a tradition,” John Kuykendall, fraternity-faculty liaison officer, commented.

The fraternity scholastic averages are as follows:
Beta Theta Pi 1.859
Alpha Tau Omega 1.767
Sigma Phi Epsilon 1.732
Phi Delta Theta 1.714
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 1.677
Kappa Alpha 1.673
Sigma Nu 1.602
Kappa Sigma 1.601
Sigma Chi 1.585
Pi Kappa Phi 1.559
Phi Gamma Delta 1.522
Pi Kappa Alpha 1.512

Music Season (Continued From Page One)

Sweetbriar on November 29th, and here at the fine arts building on December 1st. The program at both places will
be an oratorio by Carl Bricker, Head of the Music Department at Sweetbriar.First concert presented by the Concert Band will
be on December 5 in the auditorium of the fine arts building. For music on a lighter side, the band
will present a series of three outdoor concerts at the end of the second semester. In addition to regular concerts,
ensembles from the band will perform at various functions, meetings, and before educational groups. Highlight of the year’s activities will
be a week-long tour at the beginning of the second semester.

The Danforth Graduate Fellowships and Woodrow Wilson Fellowships require students to submit their scores on the Graduate Record Examination, which
will be given here Saturday, Nov. 18. Completed applications for the G.R.E. must be received at the Princeton office of
the Educational Testing Service before Nov. 3. Information on other scholarships and fellowships will be posted on the main bulletin
board in the south end of Chambers as the committee receives them. Abernethy echoed the feelings of the whole committee
in announcing, “We hope many seniors will be interested in competing for these various national awards this year.” He also
asked that students remember that visiting of faculty.

WELCOME BACK! For All Your Car Service Needs See Us 24 Hour Wrecker Service ALL BRANDS MOTOR OIL GREASE JOB
USED CARS BOUGHT AND SOLD ARCHER'S GULF SERVICE

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet. Sneden said layouts for Noah will be held soon and the time for them will be
announced as soon as possible. “All interested in working with the Vagabonds are encouraged and invited,” he added.

Debate Team (Continued from page one) The forensic group met Wednesday night at which time Dr. Patterson gave the background
of anti-trust legislation and legislation designed to keep labor organized. An organizational meeting preceded his talk and a discussion period
followed. Returning team members are Bill Brown, Greg Govan, Skip Jones, Tom Poston, Doug Wilkerson, Bill Stockard, Bob Llewellyn, Harold
Fisher, and John Rankin.

At the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN with Coke! Charlotte, N.C.

Between Classes... get that refreshing new feeling Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord Concord, North Carolina

Located close by. This price includes choice of and tea or coffee. ENTREES: Deviled Crab VEGETABLES: Sliced tomatoes. ALSO —
and they include a choice of peppers, 100. We have small parties and a large biggest group.

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1961

Lobanov Fights Reds By Teaching Them BY DAN BROADHEAD Davidsonian Feature Writer

“The best antidote to the threat of world communism is knowledge,” said a gentleman this week, who is striving to
increase this knowledge he feels is so important. Not even the required retirement age at the University of Michigan could
make Professor Andrei Lobanov-Rostovsky give up dedication to that task. And that explains his presence at Davidson this year as
a visiting professor under the John Hay Whitney Foundation. “Raising the tone of countries is the safest method to stop
the spread of communism,” he says. The knowledge of history holds one of the keys. “Would you seek a cure
from a doctor who didn't know his medicine,” he asked.

Learning this history has occupied much of Prof. Lobanov's lifetime. The son and nephew of famous Russian diplomats, he has
played a large role in making history also. Prof. Lobanov served as an officer in the Tsar's Imperial Guards before
World War I. Working up to the rank of captain, he spent the war period on the German front. With
the outbreak of the revolution in 1917, he was assigned to a Russian division serving under the French in Macedonia.
After the first nine months of the revolution, communism began to infiltrate and Soviet propaganda collapsed the morale of the
army. Lobanov enlisted with the French for the rest of the war. Following the armistice, he returned to Russia to
join General Denikin of the White Army. When the Whites were defeated, over two million people fled Russia, Prof. Lobanov
among them. His family position and military rank made him a prime target.

He began his dual role of teacher and student shortly thereafter. He spent four years in Paris studying at the
Ecole des Sciences Politiques, continuing his education in political science, economics, and history. After moving to London, he began writing
articles on history and doing freelance lecturing. Sir Bernard Pares, the prominent scholar of Russian history, advised Lobanov to come
to America where the public was just beginning to study Russian history. Thirty-one years of teaching have ensued from that
advice. Prof. Lobanov joined the faculty at UCLA in 1930. In 1943 he took a “war leave” to do special
teaching at the University of Wyoming. Since 1945, he had been teaching at Michigan until his compulsory retirement from that
institution last spring.

These classes have been conducted in Russian, English, and French. In addition, Prof. Lobanov can converse in German and Italian
and read Spanish as well.

Cumming Battles Seminoles To Spare Sunshine State

Dr. William P. Cumming returned from Washington, D.C., today, where he spent three days serving as a major witness in
the case of the Seminole Indians vs. the United States. He testified for the Justice Department in the Court of
Claims with the State of Florida at stake. The Seminoles base their claim to Florida on a supposedly illegal treaty
and Dr. Cumming was given the task of finding another treaty that would supersede the first one. Although he has
provided information for both sides of the suit, Dr. Cumming has been retained by the Justice Department because he found
an old treaty which he believes will exclude part of the state from the case.

Cumming began research for his testimony three years ago while he was in England. Because he had a background of
map-study, he was asked by the government to hunt up old treaties and try to reconstruct boundaries set forth in
them. In searching for old agreements and information on them, Cumming went to such places as the Public Record Office
in London and the Archives of The Indies in Seville. In an instance where a detailed knowledge of the 1600-mile
coastline of the peninsula was needed, he said that Davidson students were instrumental in providing useful leads.

Have Sunday Dinner With Us

Earnhardt’s Fish & Steak House Brand new, modern Air-conditioned Restaurant... Plenty of Parking Space Open Weekdays from 4-12 Sundays from
12-9 “We specialize in Steaks and Seafoods” From Davidson, go out Hwy. 73 to Odell School, turn left and follow
the sign.

Sunday Dinner $1.25 This price includes choice of meat, three vegetables, rolls, and tea or coffee. ENTREES: Sugar Cured Baked
Ham with Pineapple Ring Southern Fried Chicken Country Style Steak with Brown Gravy Fresh Filet of Flounder Deviled Crab VEGETABLES:
Creamed Irish potatoes, Green lima beans, Fresh garden stewed corn, Sliced tomatoes, Bartlett pear salad, Tossed green salad with a
choice of dressings. Hot rolls, milk, buttermilk, chocolate milk, and desserts of ice cream and assorted pies. OUR CHILD’S PLATES
ARE JUST 75c... and they include a choice of meat, 2 vegetables, and tea.

We cater to weddings, banquets, church suppers, socials, and private parties. Our banquet room seats 140 guests — And our
main dining room seats 100. We have small private dining rooms for family parties and a large ballroom to accommodate
your biggest group. FOR INFORMATION AND RESERVATIONS — CALL ST 2-8803, Sam Laughter, Manager CONCORD, N.C.

Subscribe Now at Half Price*

You can read this world-famous daily newspaper for the next six months for $5.50, just half the regular subscription rate.
Get top news coverage. Enjoy special features. Clip for reference work. Send your order today. Enclose check or money order.
Use coupon below.

The Christian Science Monitor One Norway St., Boston 5, Mass. Send your newspaper for the time checked. (6 months $5.50
[] 1 year $11) (College Student [] Faculty Member) Name Address City Zone State This special offer available ONLY to
college students, faculty members, and college libraries.
