FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1961

A LOOK ~ SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

Getting To The Point(s)

BACK IN December a soft-spoken senior bowed gracefully from the basketball spotlight. The season was to be an anti-climax for
last year’s leading scorer and many local fans didn’t like it. But you can’t keep a good man on the
bench. Bill Shinn, 6-4, 190, came roaring back Monday night to save the ’Cats from shame. He hit eight field
goals, three foul shots and 19 total points (18 in the second half) and the Wildcats went down fighting, 83-78,
before Richmond. Though they were defeated (for the 10th time in 14 games), the ‘Cats hit a new high in
scoring.

I SUSPECT the baskets were still hot from the freshman game. Lanky center Terry Holland—fed by his roommate Bill Beerman—had
cooled in 44 points to give Davidson a 100-45 win over Charlotte College. Meanwhile, Dean Ed White cracked a smug
smile—and held it till Frosh Coach Joe Hunt returned from a recruiting trip later that night. “What’s the matter with
the boys, Joe, when you're away?” he teased.

Down For The Count

WITH THE good comes the bad. Cross-country runner David Gilmour got up on the wrong side of a ski last
weekend, breaking his leg near the ankle and dashing his track hopes for spring. And Big Bob (The Bird) Moore,
Davidson center, suffered an injury in practice last week, will be out indefinitely with a ripped ligament in his foot.
Moore jokingly claims he was stepped on by Coach Lefty Driesell. At any rate, if Mr. D. doesn’t quit stomping
his feet, he’s gonna have fallen arches.

AS THE season progresses, so does the accelerated recruiting program of Driesell. Commenting on one prospect, a 6-8 center from
Indiana, he said, “This boy’s got marvelous grades. He’s made only two B's (the rest A’s) since he started to
school. One was in the second grade—the other this year in typing. His fingers are too big for the keys.”

A Five-Spot Will Do It

TOM SCOTT, athletic director and a manager of the NCAA Eastern Regional Tournament, has a fistful of tickets for the
two-night playoff in Charlotte March 17-18. He can get more if there’s a demand for them. The ducats sell for
five dollars per set, which includes admission for both nights.

DAVIDSON will be host Feb. 24-25 for the Western North Carolina High School Wrestling Tournament. Davidson Coach Charlie Parker figures
Asheboro and Thomasville will be the teams to beat.

STUDENT BODY President Henry Shue is out for track. He'll try for the 880 slot. The football field has been
burned off. Supposed to make the grass grow greener. And they opened a letter from Pfeiffer this week down at
the gym. Said, “Here’s our basketball rostrum.”

CLEMSON ON TAP

“You see what I can do with these!” said the Wildcat team they usually beat. For the first time this
season, Davidson had a captain—senior heavyweight Cliff Thompson from Lake City, S. C. Next up is VPI and then VMI
on a road trip Feb. 16 and 17. The Techmen, defending Southern Conference champions, remain the team to beat, according
to Davidson Coach Charlie Parker. VMI, though weaker, will be a real challenge to the struggling Wildcats.

Parker rates Virginia Tech stronger than West Virginia, a team which snuffed out Davidson, 25-3, three weeks ago. Junior Butch
LeDoyen managed the only Wildcat weight-class victory, a decision at 157. Two days before, Thompson had stood alone in Davidson's
victory circle with a decision at 177 as The Citadel racked up a 27-3 win. “It was a good weekend
for the visiting teams,” said Parker. “I knew we would have a rough time.” Davidson did not play VPI last
season because of the heavy snowfall. And the Gobblers appear to be stronger this year. “They’re getting a good crop
from last year's freshman team,” said Parker. “They have one boy—Mike Granstaff—who made the team for the first time this
season as a junior, just to show you how tough Tech is. Granstaff was a member of the 1960 Olympic
team, so they had to let him play this year.”

Meanwhile, back home, the picture’s not so bright. Faced with a void at 130 (sophomore Ed Peel quit Davidson for
the Army), Parker has moved Tommy Wright from 123, putting Ken Barger in his old position. Phil Brown and Linton
Wray will fight it out for a vacancy at 147, which shoves LeDoyen up with Ben McCoy to decide the
157 and 167 classes. Harry Brown, formerly 167, is now at 177 and Thompson replaces John Eggers at heavyweight. Last
night, in a non-conference bout, the Wildcats broke a two-game losing streak with a 72-65 victory over Wofford before a
crowd of 600 here. Jim Nuckolls found his scoring touch and paced both teams with 18 points. Bill Jarman and
Joe Markee had 17 apiece and Bill Shinn hit 14. Davidson led most of the way after a rough opening,
using the fast break and easy layup shots in the final minutes as Wofford became desperate.

HOPES STILL HIGH

Despite the many “almost” seen, Coach Parker remains optimistic. The young mentor stated, “We're disappointed, especially since six of our
losses have been by a total of only 15 points, but we're not down. We have five conference games left,
and now that Shinn has come around, we could be tough.”

’Cats Hit Falcons Tomorrow

Monday night the Wildcats play host to VMI in a “must” conference battle. Then on Thursday they hit the road
for the first time since Jan. 9, in a return match with Pfeiffer at Misenheimer, N. C. Tomorrow night's contest
should be a “breather” for the 'Cats, who need one in this their third game of the week. The Falcons
are currently battling Guilford for the North State Conference cellar.

Riflemen Set Sights On 3-5 Mark, Await Action

WANTS A TOWEL

Senior Don Harper and Junior Marvin Rozear, with their consistency, brighten any hope. However, McCurry, facing bad and close prospects,
says, “I'm going to find a towel to chew on.” The Wildcats lost to PC Jan. 13, 1348—1340, “the worst
we've done ever!” Normal 'Cat firing centers in the 1375-80 range. Wofford, the host, won the three-way match with 1365
points.

HIGH PRIZE

Wildcat rifle hopes are like “a snowball in the sun” says Coach Jim McCurry. Explanation for the slump has it
that the boys have been “snowed in academics”—labs and exams worries. Now Sgt. McCurry anticipates improvement and more practice time.
First semester schedules allowed only sketchy post-drill sessions. Matches coming up are with Emory University. The first meet Monday in
Athens should be the toughest of the three. The Bulldogs are strong in the sprinting and relay.events, while Davidson's distance
men should help swing. However, anything can happen when the men in stripes toss the ball at Davidson, and Pfeiffer
cannot be taken lightly. The Falcons place their hopes on the shoulders of big Bobby Frank, a 6-9 center, and
Jerry McManus, who pumped in 25 against Catawba, Tuesday’s foe. Georgia Tech, who downed the Falcons, 71-53, will be scrappy.
Tech has won five and lost one so far against the Bulldogs.

By CARL RUST
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The next day, The Citadel took its second victory in a three-sport weekend sweep at Davidson by nudging the Wildcat
swimmers, 50-45. (The Bulldog wrestlers defeated Davidson, 27-3, while the cagers swung the first event—the 400 Medley Relay—and held on
for a 48-46 win over Southern Conference rival William and Mary. The relay time of 4:24 was just three seconds
shy of the school record.)

Davidson Faces Three Swim Clubs In Georgia

The Davidson tankmen, boasting a 3-2 record on the season, hit the road for Georgia next week for meets with
the University of Georgia, Georgia Tech, and Emory. It’s now late enough in the season for the Wildcats to be
eyeing the school swimming records. The 1960 team set eight new records. Captain Tom Hudgins is less than two seconds
off his record time in the 440, while Barry Branch is just one second short of his record time in
the 100. Stefan Young needs about four seconds to top his 1960 record.

The VMI clash shapes up to be a real thriller in every respect since both teams are fighting desperately to
get into the tournament. The Keydets, who nipped the conference ‘Cats in Lexington by four, are awarded an excellent shooting
team. Driesell said, “Norm Halman is probably the best shooter in the conference.”

Davidson hits Emory on Wednesday. The Atlantans are much stronger this year than last. The Wildcats managed one victory in
two meets during the Christmas-Exam interval, both at home. In a close one on Jan. 13, the Wildcats swung the
first event—the 400 Medley Relay—and held on for a 48-46 win over Southern Conference rival William and Mary. The relay
time of 4:24 was just three seconds shy of the school record.

Last Monday night, the ‘Cats’ tournament hopes were dimmed by Richmond, 83-78. Following a ragged first half, the local Junior
Stefan Young, a standout in the conference meet last year, placed first in the 200 Butterfly and the 200 Breaststroke.
Tom French's time of 2:31.45 was good enough to win the 200 Backstroke.

On Rules Revision

The Intramural Athletic Council will vote at its Feb. 15 meeting on an extensive athletic rules revision begun last fall
by a committee headed by Worth Williamson. At its bi-weekly meeting Wednesday, IMAC set the basketball schedule for next week
with VMI and VPI. The Keydets trounced Davidson, 61-34, in December here along with Furman, Citadel, and Clemson. McCurry tags
these as “tough.” Military-trained Citadel is a high prize for any team to beat.

Trackmen Start Drills

Indoor track practice started Monday with three coaches on hand in the absence of Heath Whittle, on sabbatical leave. Coach
Roger Thrift and his assistants Prof. Max Polley and Chaplain George Staples must whip the team into shape for the
first of three meets Feb. 18—the Big “5” Meet at Chapel Hill (Davidson, Duke, North Carolina, N.C. State, and Wake
Forest).

“We haven't had the whole squad together for practice,” Thrift said this week. The coach said he was assigned to
the job less than a month ago and calls himself “coordinator” rather than coach. “We would welcome anyone who'd like
to come out for track,” he said.

As things shape up at this point, the dash events will have it over the distance ones. Senior Ed Kizer
and sophomore Bobby Cordle will run the 100, while senior Roger Beebe should nail down the 440 slot. Another distance
man—David Gilmour—broke his leg in a skiing mishap last week. Dr. Polley will supervise the sprinters and Dr. Staples will
look after the distance men.

One week after the Big “5” Meet is the Southern Conference Meet at Lexington, Va., with defending champion The Citadel.
In overall intramural standings, including flickerball, SAE’s lead the second-place KA’s by almost 100 points.

“Easy does it—while no one’s looking.” That's Bill Jarman, our “Wildcat of the Week.” Never a player for pretentious display
(he lopes down the court like a bone-tired farmhand), Jarman as a sophomore center has developed into Davidson’s most consistent
shooter and rebounder, with the possible exception of senior Markee. Both have come a long way this season. Markee and
Jarman are one-two in almost every statistical category: notably scoring and rebounding. Coach Lefty Driesell feels that Jarman is reaching
his peak. “He'll be tough from here out.”

Cases in point: In two games opposite William & Mary's All-Conference center Jeff Cohen (6-8), Jarman (6-5) held him to
24 points all told, while scoring 26 himself. Two weeks after the second game, Cohen sank 33 as the Indians
upset VPI. In his best game of the season three weeks ago, Jarman had 28 points to pass Markee's previous
high of 25. In defeat against Richmond Monday, he scored 18 points (eight of nine from the foul line) and
grabbed 11 rebounds.

A red-headed Gastonian, Jarman has been burned many times this season by Driesell’s brush fires. But it’s paying off, as
he gains experience, in personal performance, if not on the won-lost record.
