‘CATS SEEK LOOP WIN (See Page Three) The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College VOL. L DAVIDSON
COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1961 FRESHMAN HITS HONOR SYSTEM (See Page Two) Martin Cool Toward Plan For
Joint Medical Program’ BY BILL GODWIN Davidsonian Staff Writer President Martin this week all but closed the door on a
suggestion by a former dean of Duke University’s Medical School that Davidson College collaborate with Memorial and Presbyterian hospitals in
Charlotte on a four-year medical college. “There is no question,” Dr. Martin said, “but that there would be a real
conflict with our liberal arts program here.” The suggestion came from Dr. W. C. Davison in a late-June civic club
address at Charlotte. A trustee of Duke Endowment— Davidson's greatest benefactor— and a former member of our board of visitors,
Dr. Davison is described by Dr. Martin as “a very strong booster of Davidson as a pre-medical preparation place. “I
think it’s a compliment to the college that he included us in his plans.” Dr. Davison said the medical college
would be “an economical way to increase the flow of M.D.’s in North Carolina.” He proposed that Davidson have charge
of students in their first two years of graduate work, then turn them over to the Charlotte hospitals for the
remaining two years. “Davidson could do a wonderful job with the first two years of medical preparation,” he said. “Your
professors are entirely capable of handling this advanced work.” In Charlotte, he said, adequate facilities exist at the two hospitals
and “plenty of federal money” would be at their disposal.” Council Evaluates Activities In its first quorum meeting of the
school year, the Student Council announced its “present major emphasis” as a “re-evaluation of the student activities.” President George Trask
recommended the formation of a committee to study the various groups on campus with an eye towards the cutting out
of dead wood and a more positive utilization of potential. Appointed to the committee were Student Council members John Spratt
and Larry Leafer. A third member from the student body at large will be appointed by President Trask. First order
of business was the formal inauguration of George Trask as president of the student body by first vice-president Ken Kelly.
The council voted to reinstate an important committee which was allowed to lapse last spring. This was the finance committee,
which is responsible for the review of budget proposals of the student organizations and the disbursement of the student activities
fee to them. The committee is composed of the treasurer of the college, two faculty members, secretary-treasurer of the student
body and two senior council members. Freshman advisor Bob Stone was congratulated for his handling of the orientation of the
class of '65. Both Stone and Trask expressed the need for upperclassmen to “jack up the freshmen” when certain “fine
traditions of the College” are allowed to lapse. Presently, there is no graduate medical school in Charlotte and Dr. Martin
said that Charlotteans are “very interested in some kind of medical college.” The president described a medical college as “terribly
expensive,” pointing out that Davidson annually turns out about 25 per cent of its graduates with pre-medical B. S. degrees.
“This seems,” he said, “to be a good percentage for Davidson to produce—a good contribution to the medical profession by
the college.” In June and at the present, Dr. Martin said, “I am not of the opinion that Davidson can
afford to transfer the amount of its attention and resources to make a medical college successful and, at the same
time, maintain a top-rate liberal arts program.” He reiterated Davidson's goal to be “the finest college of its type (1,000
male students, church related, liberal arts) in America.” “If someone were to approach us and say, ‘We'll provide the money,’
then, of course, we'd have to look at the suggestion from a different standpoint,” Dr. Martin said. “Still, perhaps, there
would be a conflict.” When Duke Endowment trustees met with Davidson officials here this spring, “I spoke with Dr. Davison
on the subject of a medical college,” Dr. Martin said. “However, I made no commitments and showed no real enthusiasm.”
The president said he knows of no other college in the nation of Davidson's type that jointly administers a medical
college. In the late 1920's, Davidson offered an M. A. pre-medical degree. A medical college jointly sponsored by Davidson flourished
off-campus here at the turn of the century. Dr. Davison said his proposal would be “a lot less expensive” than
establishing new two-year or four-year medical colleges in the Charlotte area. Adams Will Start Season Of Music This Sunday Nelson
Adams, a teacher at Brevard College, will start a season of music at Davidson with an organ recital at 4
p.m. in the College Church. The music will be Bach and contemporary, with a student choir plain chanting as a
background for one of the pieces. The Male Chorus, Concert Band, and individual performers will keep the new fine arts
building well filled with music from its opening throughout this school year. The Male Chorus will present five programs during
the dedication week of the fine arts building. Also during this week Mr. and Mrs. Richey will play chamber music
on the piano and violin. The Male Chorus plans to combine with the Sweetbriar College choir and present an exchange
of programs. The combined chorus will perform at YMCA Set To Launch Fund Drive Starting Monday the Y.M.C.A. will begin
its annual financial drive to solicit funds for the maintenance of its programs. These funds will come from either direct
contributions or pledges from both students and faculty. A goal of $4200 has been set. Plans for collection of these
funds are similar to those of last year with one man on a hall being assigned to solicit on that
hall. Chapel on Thursday was devoted to explaining the use to which these funds will be put. In other activities,
the Y conducted a freshman interest survey during orientation in which an estimated two hundred persons expressed an interest in
some phase of the total Y program. These plus the estimated three hundred upperclassmen who responded to a similar survey
will provide a more than ample working force for the coming year. THE FOUR ACES NUMBER TWO Dorsey, Four Aces,
Flanagan Head Homecoming Lineup Saturday’s Game Pits To initiate the weekend festivities, the Artist Series will present the Mitchell-Ruff Trio,
a modern jazz group, in Chambers auditorium at 8 p.m. Friday. Following the concert, the IFC will sponsor a formal
dance in the college gym featuring Sam Donahue and the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra. There will be a figure at this
dance. Following much student comment, the “gentlemen's agreement” of no more than a fifteen minute time limit for any fraternity
in a freshman’s room was violated, by one fraternity. After eight weeks of study during the summer, the initial faculty
team for the interdepartmental course in the Humanities has arrived at a preliminary syllabus for the first year’s course. The
faculty and trustees approved a recommendation for the interdepartmental program last spring, and a six-man team was chosen to plan
and develop the first year’s course. The members of the team, representing different branches of the liberal arts, are Dr.
George L. Abernethy, philosophy; Dr. Richard G. Cole, English; Dr. George Labban, classics; Dr. John A. McGeachy, history; Dr. Max
E. Polley, Bible; and Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes, religion and philosophy. Dr. Rhodes, serving as a spokesman for the group,
said that during the summer the group had to determine the objectives of the course and in the light of
the objectives, had to organize an outline and determine what source materials and teaching methods would be used. TOTAL PICTURE
As to the main objective of the course, Dr. Rhodes said, “We see a problem that exists in current education;
namely, the fragmentizing of knowledge. Our objective would be to go against this and try to present the achievements and
life of Western man in something of a total picture. “We believe we can accomplish this by following the historical
pattern. History will provide a framework within which religion, philosophy, art, literature, etc. will be examined.” The team has divided
the first year’s work into five periods of history: 1. Creation down to time of Old Testament 2. Old Testament
period 3. Greek period 4. Roman period 5. Medieval period. PRIMARY MATERIAL Dr. Rhodes said that they hope to let
each period speak for itself. Therefore, primary material, or material actually written in the particular period being studied, will be
used. He stated that while history will serve as a framework for examining the humanities within a particular period, great
emphasis will also be placed on some themes that are common to all peoples of all periods. He gave as
examples such recurring themes as the problem of human suffering, the epic theme, and the theme of the good life.
He feels that these recurring themes will tend to integrate the course. Dr. Rhodes continued, saying, “Two teaching methods will
be combined in this program: lecture and discussion. When the material demands a lecture, the member of the team best
qualified will speak to the entire group of students. Whenever discussion is possible, eachTeam member will meet with his group
of fifteen to eighteen students for that purpose.” During this year, according to Dr. Rhodes, the team members are teaching
one course less than their usual load so that they can devote ten hours a week to further study on
the program. The team will spend another eight weeks of full-time study next summer. The course, which begins in September
1962, will be an elective course for freshmen. If taken, it substitutes for nine hours of required English, nine hours
of required Bible, and six hours of required history. Six hours credit for each semester, or a total of 24
hours for the two years of study, will be given.

NOT ELITE GROUP

The team has not yet arrived at a method of selecting the men in the event that more than a
hundred apply. Dr. Rhodes particularly emphasized that the class will not be an elite group. The team will not examine
college board scores or high school transcripts. Any freshman accepted to Davidson is eligible. In the near future, another team
will be chosen to begin work on the second year’s program, which will cover the history from the Renaissance to
the 1960s.

Debaters, Over 50 Strong, Topic Study

The Davidson Debate Team, more than fifty strong, is looking forward to a heavy schedule this winter disputing the question
“Should Labor Organizations Be Brought Under the Jurisdiction of Anti-Trust Legislation?” “We are looking forward to beating last year’s 50-50
record with a 75-25 balance this season,” stated Dr. Joseph T. Drake, the team’s advisor. Nine members have returned from
last year, and forty freshmen have signified interest in debating. The initial tournament, for freshmen only, will be October 18
at Wake Forest College. On November 10-11, the forensic society will travel to the University of South Carolina. The Tau
Kappa Alpha Regional Tournament is to be held at Duke University November 18. The Appalachian Mountain Forensic Tournament will be
on December 2. Dr. Drake hopes to arrange individual practice meets with Lenoir-Rhyne College, Gardner-Webb Junior College, Wingate Junior College,
and the University of North Carolina before the tournament season arrives. Dr. Ernest Patterson, professor of economics, will assist Dr.
Drake by helping the students locate sources of information. “It is very rewarding to watch the development of the debaters
as they learn how to stand up and think on their own feet while expressing themselves forcefully,” informs Drake.

Dr. Channing Lien

Dr. Lien To Speak In Tuesday Chapel

Dr. Channing Lien, former Korean ambassador to the United States, will be the speaker at chapel on Tuesday morning. Dr.
Lien was educated in this country, attending Lafayette College, and earning graduate degrees from Princeton and Yale. He has taught
political science at Chatham College in Pittsburgh and at the State University of New York. Following his chapel speech, Dr.
Lien will give a talk at 8:15 Tuesday evening in the ballroom of the Student Union. The title of his
talk will be “A Look at Recent Events in Korea,” dealing with the student demonstrations and the most recent overthrow
of the Korean government. Dr. Lien has had much influence and interest in the recent history of Korea. When Syngman
Rhee was elected president in 1948, Dr. Lien was offered a cabinet post which he refused. In 1952, when Rhee
used strong-arm methods to keep himself in office, Dr. Lien began a one-man crusade against Rhee. Dr. Lien backed the
student riots of 1960, and, when Rhee abdicated the presidency, Dr. Lien was offered and accepted the post of ambassador
from the new government to the United States. When the military coup took over Korea earlier this year, Dr. Lien
resigned his post, saying that he could not be an ambassador for a government which he considered unconstitutional.

IFC moved to once again have formal dances. Last year there were no formal dances. Saturday afternoon at 2 p.m.
the Wildcats will entertain the Blue Hose of Presbyterian College in the Homecoming football game. Ralph Flanagan, His Piano and
Orchestra will play for a semi-formal dance Saturday evening from 8:00 to 12:00 p.m. in the gym. During the course
of the dance, the Four Aces will present two 30-minute concerts. Ralph Flanagan and his Orchestra have been consistently rated
America’s Number One Band in polls, year after year. Flanagan arrangements feature his rhythm section and his own piano stylings.
In addition to the orchestra, the Flanagan Trio and Flanagan's Flatbush Five are featured in what adds up to versatility
as the organization’s keynote. The Four Aces have had six records selling over one million copies. “Billboard,” “Variety,” and “Cashbox”
have named them the Nation’s Outstanding Vocal Group for several years. The Tommy Dorsey Orchestra is no stranger to Davidson
having performed here at an earlier dance weekend. They are under the direction of Sam Donahue who formerly had his
own orchestra. The Queens’ sororities end their formal rush Friday, October 13th. Banquets were to follow pledging there. Since this
schedule would have definitely conflicted with Homecoming, these banquets have been tentatively postponed.

Rush Week ‘Successful’, But Needs Improvement

IFC President Bob Waugh Tuesday termed Rushing Week, 1961, “a definite success,” and pointed to several areas in which the
IFC hopes to improve rush procedure. During Rush Week, the IFC maintained a desk phone in the Student Union with
an IFC member present at specified hours to answer any questions concerning rush by fraternities or freshmen. Waugh noted that
there was one call all week, and that was a wrong number. Next year, the IFC hopes to have one
or two IFC men stationed in front of the freshmen dorms to answer any questions that arise.

CLASH WITH CLASSES

Waugh also stated that the IFC is “very dissatisfied” with having Rush Week and a full week of classes coincide,
and hopes to work out a schedule whereby rush and freshman orientation can be carried out at the same time.
He noted in passing that the Saturday open house was ineffective and will not be scheduled again. “Overall,” concluded Waugh,
“Rush Week was definitely hectic, but at the same time, there was less underhandedness than in previous years and a
definite effort to keep rushing procedure equitable. As a result, there was much less ill will between fraternities.”

Endowment Campaign Will Use Regional Plan

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Why is the Living Endowment Fund so necessary to the life of Davidson College? Almost one half of what the
college spends to educate a student comes from personal gifts. Yet only thirty percent of the alumni of the college
gave to the fund last year. The low percentage of gifts has prompted the necessity for a new approach to
the Living Endowment this year. Robert Sailstad, assistant to the president, believes that this year the college has found a
method that could result in fifty percent of the alumni contributing to the fund. The plan that will be used
is based on the fact that, with all of the requests made of a person today, there is nothing as
effective as a personal appeal from a fellow alumnus. Approximately fifty regions have been established throughout this country, with a
chairman for each one. The regional chairman will secure, if possible, one worker for every five alumni to be solicited
for the fund. The time period for the Fund has also been changed this year. Instead of beginning in January
and ending in December, a fiscal year beginning and ending in June has been established. The new schedule will enable
the regional solicitation to work more effectively. The Living Endowment Fund program will also use mail solicitation by class agents,
as it has done since 1939. Regional solicitation will be carried out in October and November; after which, class agents
will write to each member of his class who did not give during the first phase of the program. Beginning
with the Class of ‘05, each class will have a class agent. An advance guard member will take care of
the letter-writing to alumni who graduated before 1905. Each agent will compose his own letter, sign it with his personal
signature, and perhaps add a postscript. The college will then reproduce and mail the letters in sufficient quantity for the
particular class. The Living Endowment Fund is not a building fund. It remains a separate program to solicit money for
faculty salaries, scholarships, equipment, and other necessary items for the operation of the college. Anyone contributing may specify which area
of education he wishes his gift to be used for, or he may give with the understanding that the college
will use his money in the area where it is most needed. This past weekend, Sept. 15-16, the briefing session
for class agents and regional chairmen was held here. Mr. Sailstad said enthusiasm for Living Endowment this year was higher
than he has ever seen it before. With the aid of the new program, the goal of $200,000 is expected
to be reached.
