PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1961

HIS UNIQUE PERSONALITY and unique appearance made Prof. C. R. Harding an unforgettable figure in Davidson tradition. He had a piercing eye, an infectious laugh, and an insatiable intellectual curiosity. He was never content to stay in a rut or confine his mind to those channels approved by more conservative men.

The Ladies Saw More Than Peach Trees
By ED RUDERT
Davidsonian Feature Writer

An institution, a legend, a part of Davidson is “Dickie” Harding. Caleb Richmond Harding first came to Davidson College in 1876, intent on becoming a Presbyterian minister. In 1888 he came back as professor of Greek and German. In 1949 Dr. Harding, professor emeritus, died at Davidson. A janitor once said to Dr. Lingle, former president of the college, of Harding: “Looks like de Lawd gonna hafta retire dat man; we done all WE can.”

OVER 50 YEARS
No one can be a part of a college for over 50 years without becoming legendary. Among the generation of the faculty today who were taught by and who taught with Dr. Harding, he is remembered as one of the best-loved men who has ever been here, one whose memory still brings enjoyment and often laughter. At a place like a college campus, rumors can easily become attached to a popular individual. Thus, it is impossible to tell which of the many stories which have grown up around Dr. Harding are true. Whether factual or legendary, they are in keeping with the character of “Dickie Harding” or they wouldn’t have been told in the first place.

HEAD OUT WINDOW
One of the most popular of the stories concerns Dr. Harding and his old car, which he drove with his head out the window because the windshield was always either too cracked or dirty to see through. When told by a policeman at a busy Charlotte intersection that he couldn’t make the turn he was going into, Dr. Harding said, “Well, young man, if you will get out of the way I think I can,” and completed his turn. Then there was the time that he called the famous Mr. Duke aside to complain about the evils of smoking among the students when Duke was on the campus arranging a donation of $2,000,000, made mostly by his tobacco industry.

VICTORIAN IDEAS
Some of Dr. Harding’s rather Victorian ideas showed up in the fine arts class he taught in his latter years. He never showed male and female Greek statues on the same day. Particularly revealing pictures would often be folded, showing the top third or so, in order to be modestly displayed to the students.

A NIGHTSHIRT
For some reason it was a well-known fact around campus that Dr. Harding slept in a nightshirt. This fact most likely inspired the following story: One day when Dr. Harding was at home sick in bed, Mrs. Harding had the ladies of her missionary society at the house. She told her husband that she would have to bring the ladies through the bedroom to take them out back to see her peach trees. She finally convinced him that he could simply pull the sheet up over his head and they wouldn’t even notice his presence. In the excitement of his wife’s warning of their approach, the professor absent-mindedly grabbed the end of his nightshirt and pulled IT up over his head.

The relationship between “Dickie” and Millie Harding was a warm one, but humor usually prevailed. One story goes that in their later years, when Dr. Harding was recuperating from a mild attack, he rolled over in bed and asked his wife what she was thinking about. Millie Harding replied quickly, “I’m thinking about the good-looking man I’m going to marry when you die.”

Council Passes First New By-law
Monday night the Student Council passed the first new by-law to be added to the revised constitution. The by-law, which is now Section Nine of the Student Body by-laws, reads, “No student shall be a member of both the Student Council and the Honor Court.” This makes up for an article overlooked when the revised constitution was drawn up. The council also requested the administration to investigate the possibility of installing fire sirens in the dormitories. After the search of rooms conducted by the Honor Court one night last semester, the council realized the difficulties anyone would have in waking people in the event of a fire in one of the dorms. Student Body President Henry Shue reported to the council on the activities of the Congolese Student Committee, and in lieu of further business, the meeting was adjourned.

Vespers Features Holy Week Music
A program of music for Holy Week will be presented at vespers service this Sunday night at 7:30. Both the Davidson College Male Chorus and the Chapel Choir will sing for the service and the Brass Ensemble will provide the orchestral background. The arrangements are under the direction of Donald B. Plott, head of the college Music Department. Student attendance is not required. The events of the Passion Week from Palm Sunday to Easter will be presented. Readings will be given by Davidson students Frank Mansell, Jim Glenn, and Joe Martin on the Triumphal Entry, the Upper Room, Calvary, and the Risen Lord. These will be accompanied by appropriate numbers from the choirs and the ensemble, in a manner similar to that of the Christmas Vesper service.

German Student Life Is ‘Realistic And Romantic
By ARNOLD KRONER
Richardson Scholar

Editor’s Note: This is the fourteenth in a series of articles by Richardson scholars about characteristics of their homelands, or on their impressions of Davidson.

The German student life is famous in many parts of the world. But many would be very surprised if they would see how realistic, hard, and unromantic it really is. The first great difference is that a German university has no campus but owns only several buildings in the city; often, they are not even concentrated in one section of the town.

NO DORMS
The students therefore don’t live in dormitories; they rent their own rooms in the town and that spreads them out over the whole city. So the students live often very far from the university buildings and they have to use bicycles or the buses or street cars to get to their classrooms, if they don’t want to walk. The most fortunate ones may perhaps use a motorcycle or a very small and old car. The following professors are completely free in scheduling their lectures between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. Therefore the students have sometimes several hours between two courses free; the next time they overlap about 10 minutes.

LONG WALKS
It is quite common to walk a mile between two courses. This is only possible because there are in general no requirements which courses a student has to take during the different semesters, he chooses most times courses of many different departments and that means he is walking most of the day because his lectures are in several buildings in different parts of the town.

At noon all the students rush together at the cafeteria and overcrowd it completely. You often have to wait a half hour before you get your meal and then 10 minutes before you get a place to sit down. In the afternoon the students meet in a restaurant, where they dance perhaps a little while and eat ice-cream.

SWIMMING
Over the weekend the students enjoy themselves by going swimming in the public swimming pools or walking with friends in the surrounding parts of the city. This is what a German student life looks like. Naturally, there are big university festivals sometimes during the year, like the masked balls at the Carnival season when several bands play in the rooms of the Concert Hall and the students have a real good time the whole night through from 8 p.m. to often 6 a.m. and afterwards a Champagne breakfast and an after-dance party, but these are rare exceptions and sometimes they are needed to forget the normal hard life.

After Vespers Open Houses
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Causey
Fulcher
Goodykoontz
Gallent
Mebane
Moore
Pinkerton
Rouey
Thies
Thompson
Tyson
White

Anthropologist Visits Here; For Programs On Africa
Dr. Alvin W. Wolfe, sponsored by the American Anthropological Society and the National Science Foundation, will deliver a series of lectures here next week. These will be related to his studies of the Ngombe people of Africa. Lectures open to the public will be Wednesday evening at 8:15 and during Thursday chapel. Dr. Wolfe will also speak to several classes, in economics, anthropology, marriage, history, and political science. He will speak informally at coffees on Wednesday and Thursday.Thursday, a seat. Many students eat only lunch there and cook their own supper because they live too far away. That’s why many German students are excellent cooks.

FREE TIME
In the free time during the day, the students study in the library or sit in the lobby of the union, meet their friends there, and discuss all sorts of problems. Often they also play cards for a short time in the student inn in the basement of the union and drink a bottle of beer, but they don't want to become drunk; they just drink it as you drink a cup of coffee when you sit together. When they have no more lectures the same day, the students go home and study for themselves in their rooms.

NO HI-FI
The German student enjoys his student life, too, but he can only dream of Hi-Fi equipment. He is already very happy if he possesses the simplest record player and some records. If a student dates a girl, he normally doesn’t invite her for a steak dinner. They take a walk through the shopping streets, admire the displays, go to a café, and have a cup of coffee.

Assistant professor of anthropology at Lafayette College, Dr. Wolfe holds degrees from the University of Nebraska and Northwestern University. Dr. Wolfe's specialties in anthropology are the aspects of cultural and social anthropology in Africa. He is particularly interested in cultural dynamics and community studies, having spent two years in the African Congo with the Ngombe people. His lecture topics include concepts of the supernatural in Africa, the effects of change in African society, the power and responsibility in Africa, the current political problems, and the life of hunters in the Congo forest (with colored slides). The American Anthropological Society and the National Science Foundation are sponsoring this lecture as part of a series. These two organizations finance the sending of well-known anthropologists to smaller colleges which do not have full-fledged departments of anthropology, and which would not otherwise be able to afford the opportunity of hearing such lecturers.

Quips And Cranks Is ‘Revolutionary’
“Revolutionarily different” is the best term to describe this year’s Quips and Cranks according to Executive Editor Bobby James. The annual will be available to the Davidson student body about May 15. The annual staff has almost finished its work, and the last material will go out this week. The Charlotte Engraving Company will do the engraving, and The Observer Printing House will print the annual. Quips and Cranks will be so different this year that the staff intends to send copies to different publishers, critics, and other campuses for criticism and comment before it comes out on the Davidson campus. “The insights of these outside sources may help student insight and will aid the annual staff to choose methods to publicize effectively the new approach taken in this yearbook,” James said. “The student body should approach the new Quips and Cranks as far more than just another annual, whether or not it is a success or a failure,” he commented. James stressed the fact that after the views of the outside sources are obtained, THE DAVIDSONIAN will be given more information as to the annual’s contents.

DON'T MISS
Tomorrow, March 25
In Richardson Stadium
At 3:30 P.M.
Admission — 50c
ALL PROCEEDS WILL GO TO CHARITY
Davidson - Queens Olympics

Aldridge To Speak On Young Writers
John W. Aldridge, editor, author, and critic will visit the Davidson campus on April 14, in connection with the Fine Arts Festival. He will deliver a lecture on “Younger Southern Writers” at 8:15 p.m. in the Union. Aldridge was educated at the University of Chattanooga, Bread Loaf School of English, and University of California at Berkeley. From 1948-55 Aldridge taught at the University of Vermont and afterwards at Sarah Lawrence College, Queens College in N.Y., and New York University, where he was Berg Professor of English. He delivered the Christian Gauss Seminars in Criticism at Princeton University in 1953 and '54 and is now writer in residence at Hollins College. His books include In Search of Heresy, After The Lost Generation, and a satirical novel, Party at Cranton. Aldridge has also edited a three-volume collection titled Critiques and Essays on Modern Fiction. The material for his lecture will come from a new book on Post-World War II authors and he will especially mention William Stein, a former Davidson student.

Union Sponsors Fine Films Series
The College Union is sponsoring a Fine Films Festival of five films from various countries and one American classic during the months of April and May, David Simpson, committee chairman announced this week. Series tickets for the six films will sell for $1.25. They are available at the Union desk. Admission for single showings will be 50 cents, because of the high cost of the films. “The Open City” will be the first film of the series. Scheduled for April 12 and 13, it is a post-war, neo-realistic Italian film by Roberto Rossellini and tells of Italian resistance under Nazi occupation. An example of the work of Sweden's Ingmar Bergman, “The Naked Night,” will be shown April 18 and 19. It is a study of humiliation and sadism. On April 25 and 26, the Union will present “Potemkin,” called the greatest film in 50 years by a 1951 poll of leading film figures. It is the chief work of the Russian Sergei M. Eisenstein. Japanese movie-making will be represented by “Rashomon” on May 2 and 3. This was directed by Akira Kurosawa. The final program of the series on May 9 and 10 will feature two American films, “Birth of A Nation” and “The Great Train Robbery.” The latter, produced in 1903, was the first film to tell a story and was also the first of the westerns. “Birth of A Nation” is a tragedy on the Civil War.

Spring holidays will begin at 4 p.m. next Friday and continue for six days, concluding on Wednesday, April 5. Classes will resume at 8:20 a.m. Thursday morning. Double cuts will be recorded for absences March 30 and 31 and April 5 and 6.

The Cleveland Play House Offers Jonson's ‘Volpone’
The Cleveland Play House acting ensemble will present Ben Jonson’s classic satire, “Volpone,” in a modern adaptation by Stefan Zweig, at 8:15 p.m., April 7 in Chambers Auditorium. This is the last attraction on the Davidson Artist Series for this year. The performance here is part of a 38-state tour, made possible by a Ford Foundation grant in 1957. The purpose of the grant was to provide live theatre in smaller communities. The Cleveland Players have spent two years at the Play House as part of the professional company there in preparation for the tour. “Volpone” is a comedy in which evil is mercilessly flayed. It is the satiric story of a corrupt old miser who feigns illness so that, seemingly at death's door, he may extract costly gifts from the false friends who desire to inherit his fortune. The greedy people begin to descend on Volpone, heaping their attention and gifts on the wily old man. Volpone takes great pleasure in watching his fellow men debase themselves for money. His servant, Mosca, aids him and metes out a brilliant and comic justice. The setting of the play is Venice during the Renaissance.

Entries Due April 7 For Writing Contest
Entries for the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing must be submitted to any member of the department of English by noon, Friday, April 7. The winner, along with those receiving honorable mention, will be announced in a May assembly in conjunction with the annual address provided by the Memorial Fund. Guest speaker John Crowe Ransom will present the award and a cash prize of $75.00 to the winner. Vereen M. Bell, '32, was an established Southern writer, his main work being Swamp Water, at the time of his death during World War II. As the result of a drive spearheaded by President D. Grier Martin, the award was established in 1947. A student may make only one entry in each category of creative writing with the exception of poetry and each entry should be typed, double spaced, and appear on one side of the paper only. Poet-critic Ransom will judge the finalists.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

OPEN WIDE and SAY A-H-H-H
Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina