PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Candidates Set Forth Views

Getting Out The Vote

Thespians Ready Five Plays For 2-Day Drama Contest

The Vagabond Play Contest will be held March 13-14 in Chambers Auditorium. The Vagabonds will present four plays and the Phi Delts will produce a fifth from which the judges will select three to compete in the regional contest March 17-18. Those plays which qualify will then advance to the state contest.

“The Second Shepherd’s Play” is an English farce written 500-600 years ago. Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz is the director of this play with Neal Bushoven his assistant.

GIVEN BEFORE

Vance Taylor, Dr. Ernest Patterson, Don Stowell, Woody Danenhower, Marjorie Murphy, Emery Brown, and Mrs. Ann Maloney make up the cast. The play was produced here with a different cast in December. Dr. Goodykoontz is also directing “The Lottery,” a symbolic drama. Neal Bushoven, Marvin Parker, and Walter Bost assist him. Mrs. Hope Bell, Mrs. W. O. Puckett, Mrs. H. W. French, Mrs. Grace Lilly, and John David Maloney are featured in the cast.

“Escurial,” a romantic tragedy, has a cast including Frank Gohlke, Neal Bushoven, Marvin Parker, and John Meincer. Professor James Gross is the director.

SHAW COMEDY

Mrs. Grace Lilly directs “Dark Lady of the Sonnets,” a comedy by G. B. Shaw. Fred Schoen, Hansford Epes, Mrs. D. D. Rhodes, and Mrs. Ann Maloney play the featured roles.

The Phi Delts will present “The Devil and Daniel Webster,” directed by Ben Sparks. Buddy Rives heads the cast. Other Vagabonds working on these plays are Bob Phillips, Forest Roles, Bob Denham, Joe Eifort, Joe Thigpen, and Jim Womeldorf.

Cannon Attacks School

(Continued from page one)

grinned and said, “inertia is a great thing.” Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston, standing close by, said that Cannon was confusing inertia and loyalty.

On politics, Cannon was just as glib, if not quite as talkative. He is executive assistant to the governor of North Carolina. “What will happen if the legislature doesn’t give Terry Sanford the money he needs to put through his quality education program?” Cannon was asked. “Well, that’s democracy,” he smiled. He went on to say that he was confident that Sanford’s program would be approved, “After all, three campaigns were waged and won on that issue. I haven’t heard of a single legislator who is absolutely opposed to it, although of course there are some who don’t go along with all points of it.”

Cannon would give no indication that his boss, Terry, had his eye on a national political post. “If he has, he’s not saying anything about it. Why, that would be foolish at this stage of the game in North Carolina.”

Cannon said that he didn't know what was going to become of Charles Raper Jonas’s 10th District, which may be gobbled up when North Carolina is reapportioned. There was a comment that state Democrats may want to keep Jonas (the state’s only Republican congressman) in the 10th District to keep him from running for governor. “I don’t care if he does run for governor,” Cannon said. He said that he had asked at least 25 legislators about reapportionment and had gotten at least 25 different plans. He asked if Terry Sanford is going to take a stand on integration in the public schools. “He’s not going to say anything. There’s no need to. He said all he needed to say during the second primary,” Cannon reasoned.

Cannon shed a little light on his own political future. “I'm going to return to practicing law. There is no future in politics in North Carolina for me.”

Rubin Speaks

(Continued from page one)

Ransom has been acclaimed “the most successful teacher of creative writing in this country,” and was the teacher of many successful writers, including Allen Tate, Robert Penn Warren, Randall Jarrell, Cleanth Brooks, and Robert Lowell.

The festival will terminate in late spring with a Male Chorus concert on April 28 and a play produced by the Red and Black Masquers.

Diaz

1. I do not think Davidson has a real drinking problem or that drinking should ever constitute a problem here. I am against drinking anywhere on this campus and I will stand with our constitution which makes it an honor offense. The rule has been liberalized and it is up to us to enforce it. I do not think we have a choice as far as faculty enforcement but I would like to see them either abiding by our constitution or clearly stating under what grounds or circumstances they will enforce it.

2. The Student Council under my supervision will be responsible for the respect of the rights of any student of Davidson independently from race or creed. Society, Christianity, our Government, and our common sense make us realize the imminence of integration in education. I am of the firm conviction that the Congolese students should not be treated as guinea pigs while at Davidson but rather as three additional students of our college.

3. The writing of an honor system clause in a Student Body Constitution should be a mere formality. We should not have to appeal to Gestapo tactics but if certain irregularities continue to endanger the system I would be willing to take any necessary measures to improve it.

4. The N.S.A. has always been opposed to racial discrimination in education so it has been boycotted in most of the southern colleges. Because of its definite left-wing tendencies and its shaky reputation I don’t think we should join it.

5. I would propose the closing of the gap between the student body and its representatives by future council meetings in fraternity houses and open forums in the Union.

6. I am not sure. I do think that new ideas, a fresh outlook, and new strength should replace the “perennial” members of our student government that somehow seem to grow stale when they take for granted their positions.

Fowler

1. To me the drinking rule is our chief headache. I stand firmly for an alcohol-free campus but feel that administration policies equating Christianity with abstinence are ungrounded morally and realistically. I'll do all in my power to fight for the regulation of misconduct as a result of drinking and not drinking itself.

2. I am sure that Davidson students will treat these men with calm and courtesy when they arrive. However, I feel that a Student Council research committee should investigate the social facilities that will or will not be made available to these students by the town of Davidson — and then act accordingly.

3. I believe that our Honor Court and honor system work, but that they can work better. The Court could be more aggressive in maintaining honor. It must not be burdened with having to support any kind of hypocrisy.

4. Problems such as cost, creative policies, and the originality of NSA should be thoroughly investigated before sinking money into it. Each year THE DAVIDSONIAN asks each finalist in the student body presidential campaign to answer questions which we feel are pertinent to student government at Davidson.

1. What do you consider to be the next step in the solution of the drinking problem? Do you favor faculty enforcement?

2. What role do you think that the Student Council should play in facilitating adjustments of the Davidson student body to the Congolese students — and their adjustment to Davidson? Be specific.

3. Can you suggest any means by which the enforcement of the honor system at Davidson might be improved?

4. Should or should not the student council join NSA? Why?

5. Name three specific things you would have the student council do if you are elected.

6. Why do you think that you are particularly qualified for this job?

This is a job for the entire new Student Council. We should ask “What's in it for Davidson?” If the answer is, “nothing,” let's stay out.

5. (a) Agitate for student representation on every faculty committee involving student affairs. This is for purposes of communication and not for voting representation.

(b) Make Student Council available to arbitrate any organizational disputes that have reached a deadlock. Problems such as last year’s Independent vs. IMAC issue should be decided by student government and not faculty regulation.

(c) Form a liaison board between students and trustees.

6. My qualifications lie in my concern for Davidson College, and my faith in Davidson students.

Grimsley

1. I definitely favored the step taken to abolish the “under the influence” clause, but I am not in favor of any further liberalization at this time. The regulation pertaining to “conduct unbecoming a gentleman” is sufficient to cover any troublesome situation arising from the abolishment of the clause.

2. I think that the orientation that all of our foreign students go through during Orientation Week will be sufficient. I don't think that they should be made to feel like “a special case.”

3. The best way to attack this problem would be to instill in the student body an awareness of the importance of an honor system to a school like Davidson. I think that this feeling of importance is definitely lacking. Also, I plan to comment in Chapel Monday on a proposal that the duties of the Honor Court be expanded to help in this matter.

4. No, because this is an association of student bodies, not student councils. The dues for this association are$55 a year, and I don’t believe that the student council, as a council, will benefit from it that much. It appears to me to be more of a Forensic League.

5. (a) The responsibilities of the Honor Court should be expanded.
(b) The Student Council should give more active support to other campus organizations and teams without becoming a service club itself.
(c) The Faculty-Student Committee should be so strengthened as to correlate the aims of both groups and to avoid misunderstandings between them.

6. I have served this past year on the Honor Court and feel that I have become familiar with the Student-Body Constitution or punishment of the previous clause. I would prefer to see the student body enforce its regulations instead of requiring the faculty to enforce their rules.

2. I don’t feel that there is going to be a need for adjusting the Davidson student body to these students. I believe that they will be accepted as any other foreign student would be. As for their adjustment to Davidson, I think that the regular and the functions of the Student Council.

Martin: Clarification of the faculty stand on this situation is necessary to prevent the problem from becoming greater. I don’t personally favor strict faculty enforcement of minor violations, but the rule must be upheld, modified, or removed.

2. Council must assume responsibility for making the adjustment and it must cooperate with the administration. It must insist on the cooperation of the student body, but it must provide for the expression of student opinion on the matter. I don't think legislation will be necessary, but that will be determined by the development of events.

3. Enforcement of the honor system is not in need of improvement; student attitude toward it is. This situation can be corrected by an effective presentation of the system by the council to the freshmen and a clarification of the Honor Court’s opinions on all factors of the system (diving, the ROTC writ pledge, etc.) The difficulty of the problem at present stems from confusion and misunderstanding about the court's position.

4. The council at present enjoys the benefits of NSA membership without identifying itself with the left-wing reputation of the organization. I am not opposed to discussion on the question, however.

5. 1) Develop an effective means of expression of student body opinion to faculty, administration, and trustees.
2) Formulate a definite division of responsibility for the three branches of student government.
3) Undertake to encourage increased participation in student government and increased support for student activities (athletic, dramatic, etc.)

6. The president must take as his primary objective to represent accurately the entire student body. However, there are two sides to the office: one is representation; the other is leadership. Goals must be set, ideas advanced, and discussions held. But the president must be willing to subordinate his own interests to representation of student opinion. My desire for this kind of student government and my willingness to do these things are my reasons for seeking the office and my qualifications for election.

Trask: George Trask is in Vienna this semester and found it impractical to return answers to THE DAVIDSONIAN’s questions.

FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1961

Goldiere After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bernard
Hopkins
Moore
Clark
Hummel
Pietenpol
Daniel
Logan
Puckett
Davidson
Maloney
Woods
Fredericksen
D. G. Martin
Workman

Davidson Life Proves ‘Enriching’ For Juel
By KRISTIAN JUEL
Richardson Scholar

Editor’s Note: This is the twelfth in a series of articles by Richardson Scholars about characteristics of their homelands, or on their impressions of Davidson.

After six months at Davidson College as a Richardson Scholar, (the first time I have ever been mentioned as a scholar) I hope to have become fairly well acquainted with the various aspects of student life at Davidson — from vespers to Hattie’s. I shall here list a few of my experiences on the Davidson campus.

One of my most interesting experiences this fall was to work for the Slater System. I quit the job after some time though, because I was afraid it would eventually make a communist out of me.

During my stay at Davidson I have become a fan of the American national sports, football and basketball; especially basketball, because even if the game itself is not too good, one can always find amusement in the wild war dances performed by the Davidson coach around the court, guiding the referees in their decisions, mumbling words I do not find in my English/Norwegian dictionary. I hope to have improved my English over here, both written and oral, even if it is not evident in this article. At least I have increased my vocabulary, by the help of the Davidson students, with a number of words and expressions that were not known, or at least not taught, by my English teachers at home. These expressions, I would presume, are termed colloquial in Webster's.

The experience I have appreciated the most, while at Davidson has been that of becoming associated with a fraternity, which I now of course regard as the best on campus.

Concerning the subject of "free love” in Norway, this has been dealt with so thoroughly by Reader's Digest, Life, and other scientific publications that I could add nothing to it without stating the fact that it is not true; and that would be to take away a pleasant dream from the Davidson students. Moreover, it would hurt the tourist traffic.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

ROTC Unit Faces Federal Inspection

A visiting team of inspectors from the ROTC Department of the University of Tennessee will conduct the annual formal federal inspection of the local ROTC corps and facilities Monday and Tuesday.

Col. Edward P. Thomson, PMS&T, and his assistant, Lt. Col. Hunter M. Montgomery, will visit classes, attend briefings and inspect cadets during a special parade over the two-day period. Their critique and findings will be sent to the Department of the Army.

Last Wednesday, the ROTC Department was inspected with regard to all government equipment and facilities. This was the annual Command Maintenance Inspection, separate from next week's activities.

College officials will be hosts for the visiting infantry officers at a luncheon Tuesday, which will be followed by the formal parade and inspection. A special critique period will be held at 3 p.m. Tuesday.

The prepared itinerary includes visits to four ROTC classes: 12F, 22G, 32C, and 42B. Supply, operations, arms and orderly rooms will be inspected both days. Cadet Col. Stanley Gaines will lead the executive staff in the formal briefing for Thomson and Montgomery Monday at 10:20 a.m. The entire ROTC program at Davidson will be reviewed at that time by the general staff.

6 -10"- 365%* | (OCAC ta *k 60 million times a day people get that refreshing new feeling with ice-cold Coca-Cola!

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina