FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sideline Comments
By STEVE CLARK

GOOD TIMING, GIRLS, PARTIES — AND A FOOTBALL GAME

IT’S HOMECOMING AGAIN, and the Davidson Gentleman is at his best. He has shaved for the first time since Rush Week; he has finally picked up that suit he had dry cleaned two weeks ago; he has tipped over to Hood's or Johnson’s for a trim around the ears; he may have stopped in at Rush’s and bought a new sweater or some new dancing slippers; and he has put his books on the shelf and Shakespeare, mitosis, political theory, and the Slobbovian War of 16?? in the back of his mind. In short, he is sitting on ready. Cop Linker or no Cop Linker, he is ready to turn it on.

Amidst all the good timing, parties, and that good-looking chick hanging on your arm, though, we'd like to take this time to remind you that the original purpose of Homecoming takes place tomorrow at 2:30 p.m. down on the football field. While most of us are out frolicking tonight, about 45 Davidson students will be going to bed early with one thing on their minds—beating Presbyterian College. The least we can do is go to Richardson Stadium tomorrow afternoon and support them.

HOMECOMING (UGH!)

THE WORD “Homecoming” isn’t exactly a pretty word around here as far as football fans are concerned. In the past twenty Homecoming games, Davidson has won two and tied one—not an impressive record. For a while, it was thought that there was a jinx connected with the Homecoming weekend, especially when Wildcat elevens lost 14 straight Homecoming battles from 1940-1953. But in 1954 and 1955, a powerful Davidson team eliminated the jinx theory with astounding 51-6 and 54-0 wins over West Virginia Tech and Washington & Lee, respectively. The following year, we tied VMI, 13-13. Apparently, that unlucky number put another mojo on us. The following year, a flu epidemic postponed the game, and for the past three years we haven't scratched.

Presbyterian has been Davidson’s Homecoming foe several times. During the 14-year famine, the Blue Hose inflicted two losses on the Wildcats—14-12 in 1951, and 19-18 in 1953.

THE RIVALRY

THE DAVIDSON-PRESBYTERIAN series began in 1919, and when the dust had settled from the first encounter, a 0-0 score on the scoreboard foretold of the ensuing rivalry. The first eight games were dominated by Davidson, who compiled a 6-1-1 record against their brethren to the south. During this initial span (1919-1926), PC managed only two TD's and a field goal against the rugged ’Cats. Evidently, the local athletic department felt too rugged for PC, because in 1927 they dropped PC from the schedule.

For the next twenty years Davidson enjoyed the status of being in the elite “Big Five” club of North Carolina. The ’Cats played such teams as Army, Georgia Tech, Harvard, and the other four members of the “Big Five”—Carolina, Duke, State, and Wake Forest. But the other schools started buying ball players and Davidson had to seek for lesser opponents. So, in 1949, PC was rescheduled, and the Blue Hose promptly responded with a 27-7 win over their prodigal brothers. The rivalry has continued, and the current standings find Davidson still ahead with a 10-8-1 record. However, PC has delighted in beating the sophisticated Southern Conference members five times in the past eight years.

THE CRYSTAL BALL

Our crystal ball was shattered last weekend (1 right, 3 wrong), and we now have a mediocre 14-8 record. But we mended the pieces together and took another look. Davidson should break a two-game losing streak, despite it being Homecoming, and hand PC its fourth setback, 21-7. William & Mary can’t perform another miracle like they did against Furman last week, and should fall to an improving Citadel, 14-6. Other games: Furman over Howard, 22-7; Richmond over George Washington, 21-13; Virginia over VMI, 22-20; Tulane over VPI, 21-0; and Pittsburgh over West Virginia, 21-14.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Goalie McCutchen

Martin Shines As Harriers Lose Meet

Wednesday afternoon the Davidson cross-country team won a dual meet from Catawba, 27-28, while at the same time losing a dual meet to VPI, 23-40. The competition was also scored as a triangular meet with VPI scoring 32 points, Catawba 47, and Davidson 55.

Sterling Martin of Davidson remained undefeated in a time of 22.04 minutes. He was followed by Simpson (VPI), Venable (C), and Devictor (C). Tim Spiro and Dave Gilmour of Davidson tied for twelfth place.

Last Saturday the Wildcat harriers journeyed to The Citadel and defeated the Bulldogs 22-33. Martin led the team to victory, covering the 3.36-mile course in the record-breaking time of 17:56. The old record was 19:00. Martin was followed by Sickels (C), Tim Spiro (D), and Dave Gilmour (D).

Next Friday the team will face Furman here. The freshman teams will run at 4 p.m., followed by the varsity teams at 4:30.

Blanks King College In Soccer Debut

Unexperienced and overshadowed in the glitter of an All-American predecessor, this week's “Wildcat of the Week,”

KICKOFF AT 2:30 P. M.

THE SENIORS — Thirteen Wildcat football seniors will be playing in their last Homecoming game tomorrow afternoon against Presbyterian. Players kneeling (from left to right) include BILL SALZER, CECIL HOLCOMB, DAVE LOVETTE, BRUCE USHER, BOOKER CLARK, and BILL SHUMAKER. Those standing (left to right) are DUNCAN MORTON, JERRY SHEFFIELD, LOU ZIRKLE, BOB McALLISTER, JENNINGS SNIDER, LYNWOOD MALLARD, and BILL WHITTINGTON. (Davidsonian Staff Photo by Joe McCutchen.)

Phi Delts Win I-F Track

The Phi Delts won the inter-fraternity track meet Wednesday for the fourth consecutive year.

Homecoming Tomorrow

Traditional Rival PC Likes To Throw Ball
BY STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

The thirty-eighth annual Davidson College Homecoming football game gets underway tomorrow afternoon at 2:30, in Richardson Stadium. On hand for the occasion are the Presbyterian College Blue Hose, traditional rival of the local Wildcats. Tomorrow's contest will be the twentieth meeting of the two Southern Presbyterian schools on the gridiron.

Davidson Coach Bill Dole has not fared very well against his brethren from Clinton, S. C. His overall record against PC is 3-6, and many of those losses came during five straight winning seasons for Dole (1954-1958).

BAD PUNT

Last season the Wildcats fell to PC by a score of 6-0 at Clinton. Davidson's offense could never get moving,and a bad punt set up the lone PC tally. Presbyterian brings a not impressive record of 0-3 into tomorrow's game. Their three losses have been to Furman, 27-6; Lenoir Rhyne, 28-8; and Wofford, 14-8. However, the record may be deceiving since the Blue Hose are a noted small college powerhouse every year. “PC will throw a lot,” says sophomore quarterback Earl Cole, “but their speed is not enough to do the job.” Cole, who took over the number one job when Benny Coxton was injured in the Furman game, has responded beautifully by taking over the lead in total offense in the Southern Conference. Cole's chief targets are ends Jerry Sheffield, Booker Clark, and Lou Zirkle, and halfbacks Alex Gibbs and Joe Jones. Top ground gainers for the ‘Cats are Gibbs and Jim Fuller. Davidson's big question mark still remains pass defense. Dole hopes that he has solved the problem, and he should find out tomorrow against the air-minded Hose.

FROSH PLAY

This afternoon the Davidson freshman team journeyed down to Charleston, S. C., for a game with The Citadel frosh. Coach Donald Threlkeld was optimistic about his team’s chances, despite a 38-7 loss to Chowan Jr. College two weeks ago.

The highest scores were as follows: Delts, 34 1/2; Betas, 31 1/2; ATO’s, 14; Kappa Sigs, 12 1/2; Sigma Chis, 9; Pi Kapps, 6; Phi Gams, 5 1/2; SAE’s, 3; Independents, 2; Pikas, 2; SPE’s, 1; KA’s, 0; and Sigma Nus, 0. Leading individual scorers were Alan Turner, Beta, 10 1/2; Ken Kelley, Phi Delts, 10 1/2; Jerry Bussell, Phi Delts, 8 1/2; and Tommy Hamilton, Beta, 7 1/2.

Final results of the meet are as follows:
100-yard dash—Alan Turner, Beta, 10.3; Hollenbeck, Sigma Chi; Ross, ATO; and Hamilton, Beta.
220-yard dash—Alan Turner, Beta, 24.2; Ross, ATO; Watson, Pika; and DuBose, Kappa Sig.
440-yard dash—Ken Kelley, Phi Delt, 55.7; McClelland, Phi Gam; Burns, Beta; and Morris, Kappa Sig.
660-yard dash—Ronnie Reese, ATO, 1:32.5; McCoy, ATO; Newsom, Phi Delt; and Teague, Sigma Chi.
Three-quarter mile run—John Barrow, Phi Delt, 3:41.8; Jones, SAE; Marshall, Phi Delt; and Morris, SPE.
High Jump—Jerry Bussell, Phi Delt, 5’-8”; (4-way tie for second) Mills, Beta; Morris, Kappa Sig; Calhoun, Phi Delt; and McClelland, Phi Gam.
Broad jump—Tommy Hamilton, Beta, 20’-8”; Bussell, Phi Delt; Marcon, Kappa Sig; and Calhoun, Phi Delt.
220-yard low hurdles—Ken Kelley, Phi Delt, 14.0; Williams, Sigma Chi; Mills, Beta; and Kirkman, ATO.
Shot put—Jim Wallace, Beta, 45'-4 1/2"; Gramley, Pi Kapp; Holland, Phi Delt; and Thompson, Kappa Sig.
Discus—Don Davidson, Kappa Sig, 121'-1"; Fleagle, Independents; Gramley, Pi Kapp; and Rhyne, Phi Gam.

Soccermen Win

Congratulations to the Davidson soccer team on their second win, a tremendous 6-2 defeat of Belmont Abbey this past Tuesday. Jamie McCutchen, who was a question mark in pre-season soccer forecasts, earned his spurs as goalie with a 3-0 shut-out against King College last Saturday. In fact, the entire trial lasted about five minutes—the first five minutes of last Saturday's match. Faltering badly, the ‘Cat booters were slow starters. But four times in those first five minutes McCutchen snared King attempts just short of the nets. “He did a great job," says Coach Harry Fogelman. “He held us together there in the first of the game.” Tuesday at Belmont Abbey, the junior from Spartanburg, S. C., turned in another commendable performance as the ‘Cats downed the Abbey, 6-2.

“This was certainly a team victory,” said Coach Harry Fogelman, complimenting his team. “This was a real rough game,” remarked Fogelman. “Since we had no trouble with them last year, we took this match too easy.” The Abbey led, 2-1, going into the last quarter of play, but the ’Cats caught fire and booted in five quick goals. The boys from Belmont were fired up for the encounter. It was their Homecoming, and soccer is the big fall sport there since they have no football team. Sparking the ’Cats was Fred Schoen with 3 goals. Walt Eckman, Mike Nemir, and George Kundahl each tallied one.

Basketball Practice Begins Monday

The Davidson varsity and freshman basketball teams begin practicing for the 1961-62 season this coming Monday afternoon. Charles “Lefty” Driesell, head varsity coach, and Joe Hunt, freshman mentor, issued a call for any students interested in trying out for either team. The varsity plans to workout at 4:30 p.m., and the frosh will take the courts at 7:30 p.m. Thus Driesell begins his second season as a college coach. He began his career with a bang last season when his “new-look” ‘Cats thumped nationally-ranked Wake Forest, 65-59, in the opener.

Chief cog in the PC wheel is quarterback Bobby Joyner, whose passing arm accounts for most of his team’s offensive yardage. Joyner engineered PC over the ‘Cats in last year’s game. Other outstanding personnel for the Blue Hose include Ronnie Hampton, an excellent running halfback, and Jerry Lowder, a tackle with plenty of savvy in the line. Meanwhile, Davidson will be seeking its second victory. After an opening win over Catawba, 21-15, the ‘Cats have dropped two consecutive conference games—to Furman, 45-19, and to The Citadel, 20-12.

Once again Dole's big question mark is pass defense. He hopes that he has solved the problem, and he should find out tomorrow against the air-minded Hose.