PARKER RAPS EDITORIAL POLICY (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

CAT CAGERS HIT FURMAN (See Page Three)

VOL. XLIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1961 NUMBER SEVENTEEN

Dr. Richard Burts Of M Trustees Open College To Congolese Students

BOARD OF TRUSTEE members, on campus for Wednesday's meeting, got a tour of the John R. Cunningham Fine Arts Building,
now under construction. They are shown behind the building, looking north. Below, John M. Belk, of Charlotte, and James T.
Wilson, Lake City, Fla., lead the group toward the College Union, where they had lunch. Above, right: J. Harold McKeithen,
of Winston-Salem, greets his son, Loy, a senior in the student body.

Demonstrators Gain For Stand-Ins

Three Davidson students expressed their desire to end racial discrimination by participating in stand-in demonstrations in Charlotte last Saturday afternoon.
With a group of about 60 Negro students from Johnson C. Smith College, John Cooley, Paul Franson, and Sam Pope
stood in front of two downtown theaters wearing placards asking for equal rights for colored movie-goers. During this week Cooley
has heard from about two dozen additional Davidson students who are interested in participating in future demonstrations if they should
occur. Originally, several other students had planned to take part in the demonstration Saturday, but because it coincided with the
dance weekend they were not available.

“It is inconceivable to me that people would deny such freedom to anyone,” stated Cooley, a national officer in the
United Christian Youth Movement. “I feel that this is as good a way as any to express my concern.” All
three of the students believe that college officials will not try to keep them from participating in these demonstrations. President
D. Grier Martin stated in Monday's chapel service, “We do not at present have any policy against this type of
participation. However, if there is a violation of any law, this would be a different matter.”

Franson, Cooley, and Pope insist that they were not consciously trying to influence the trustees in their decision of whether
or not to admit Negro students to Davidson next year. They do feel that their actions may be taken as
an example of the sentiment of some of the student body. “We weren't just rabble rousing,” stated Franson. “It is
our sincere belief that racial discrimination is not right, and we wanted to promote some discussion and thought on the
subject. If the time comes again and I am free, I will participate again.

“President Martin has been more than liberal with us, in my opinion,” Franson continued. “There have been no members of
the faculty or administration who have tried to influence us.” “This is not bad publicity in many places but good,”
remarked Cooley. “When I was working in New York, people were not taking part in the lunch counter demonstrations being
staged at that time.”

There have been numerous repercussions on campus both for and against this action. Franson has received a letter from a
Charlotte resident whom he refers to as being “very fundamentalistic.” A petition opposing any such future activities by Davidson students
was circulated Monday night. It was signed by 243 students. However, many students have praised the action of the demonstrators
and have expressed their willingness to support similar demonstrations if they arise.

Recent Picketing

This week 243 students signed a petition stating their opposition to Davidson students participating in stand-in demonstrations. This petition was
drawn by John DeVreis, Jim Allen, and Jerry Abernethy. This was an individual project, and was in no way connected
with any fraternity or group. Allen, as spokesman for the group, said, “We will not attempt to make any general
conclusions from this poll. We leave that up to each individual. We can say only what it proves to us:
(1) That, when considering the inefficient manner in which the poll was taken, the results were pleasing to us, as
conservatives. (2) That we could get 243 students to state their opposition to the movement, whereas the opposite faction could
manage only three or four picketers.” This petition will be sent to The Charlotte Observer. “We hope that this petition
will help show the off-campus DAVIDSONIAN readers that there are still quite a few of us who are not ready
to jump on the Martin Luther King bandwagon,” Allen commented. He explained that he thought that much more had been
printed that argued for the “radical” movement than for the conservative viewpoint. He felt this was due to the fact
that the minority advocating change always speaks louder than the majority who are satisfied with the status quo.

Votes Pass To Break Color Line

By DON SAUNDERS Davidsonian Managing Editor

Davidson's Board of Trustees voted to accept up to three Congolese as students here next year. The board’s action was
the result of an inquiry of the Board of World Missions of the Presbyterian Church, U. S. According to Dr.
J. McDowell Richards, president of the Board of Trustees, “a good majority” of the trustees voted to admit these students
“if they are able to meet the admission standards of the college.” The vote came at the trustees’ annual February
meeting Wednesday. DAVIDSONIAN reporters interviewed Richards after the meeting.

INCONSISTENT

Reporters asked Richards if this action was “not inconsistent with the policy laid down two years ago” when the board
voted that “it is not in the best interests of Davidson College to integrate at this time.” “Perhaps it is
an inconsistency,” Richards said. “But the board felt it necessary to back the Board of World Missions on this matter.
No new action was taken on the integration question,” explained Richards in reference to Henry Shue’s request for reconsideration of
the board's policy. Shue did not speak to the trustees, but presented a written statement to each member.

BOARD DIVIDED

“The pressure of time” prevented Shue from speaking to the board, according to Richards. “As to why no further action
was taken on integration: the board is so much divided in its opinion that I don’t think we could have
had a happy solution to the problem at this time,” he said. Staff members observed that other southern schools were
liberalizing integration policies, and that the trend throughout the South seemed to be toward desegregation. Richards was asked if the
board realized this and was taking any steps to bring Davidson's policy into line. “This is too broad a question
for me to answer. Individual members of the board have their own opinions,” he said.

The Board of World Missions

New Dean Trustees Tap Bailey

WRITER IN ACTION—Portrait of Leon Uris with his jeep and machine gun on Israeli-Egyptian frontier just before outbreak of war
in 1956 when he was touring the Middle East.To get material for his new novel, Leon Uris will arrive on
campus next EXODUS. Uris Arrives Wednesday For Book-Of-Year Program: initiate the 1961 Book-of-the-Year program. His two-day visit will focus on.
Joe Robinson, chairman of the program committee, reported that final plans were ready for Uris’ visit and other aspects of
the program. A large attendance is expected for the program's main event, a panel discussion, Wednesday night. Uris and Moshe
Leshem, Israeli consul in Atlanta, will arrive at Charlotte's Douglas Airport Tuesday at 7 p.m. Uris will be coming from
his home in Encino, Calif. The two men will spend the night in Charlotte, coming to the campus Wednesday afternoon.
A news and television press conference has been arranged for that morning, Robinson reported. The YMCA has been promised full
cooperation in publicizing the program by Charlotte’s communications media.

Following an afternoon of book autographing, Uris will be the special guest at a dinner in the union for members
of the panel and their wives. The participants on the evening’s panel include Leshem, Rabbi Israel Gerber of Charlotte, and
Professors Dan Rhodes and Ernest Patterson of Davidson. The 8:15 program in Chambers Auditorium is being taped by radio station
WBT for its “Project 60.” Uris will deliver a general talk and then answer questions from the audience and panel.
A social hour will follow the program in the Morrison Room of the Union. Uris will also attend Bible, and
English and political science classes throughout the morning. Another coffee hour will be held for him in the Union at
11 p.m. Leshem will also be available Wednesday to conduct a special program Thursday afternoon at 2 p.m. in the
Union to consist of slides and a short talk.

Two new faculty members, an English professor and an assistant professor of German, have been appointed for the 1961-62 school
year, President D. Grier Martin announced yesterday. Dr. Richard C. Cole, a member of the faculty at Radford College, Radford,
Va., was named professor of English; and Professor J. S. Winkler, now teaching at Winthrop College, will be assistant professor
of German. Cole, a native of Kansas City, Kan., was educated in the public schools of that city, and received
his B.A. degree from Hamilton College in 1950. He was elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa. He holds master’s
and doctor's degrees in English from Yale University. He has served as a member of the faculty at the Manlius
School, Yale University, the University of Texas, and has been at Radford College since 1957 where he is currently serving
as chairman of the department of English. Cole’s wife is the former Florence Adeline Mason, who is the first and
only woman ever to receive a BD degree from Austin Theological Seminary. They are the parents of two children; Celia
Elizabeth, age 4, and Paul Richard, age 3.

Professor Winkler is a native of Lenoir, where he attended public schools. After graduating cum laude from Ohio Wesleyan University,
he was awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to Tubingen, Germany in 1954-55. He entered Princeton Graduate School on a scholarship in
German in the fall of 1955. He holds an MA degree from Princeton and has continued his studies there.

Dr. Richard C. Burts of Mercer University was named Wednesday to replace John C. Bailey as dean of students at
Davidson College. The addition of Burts to the administration was made official by the Board of Trustees. Burts, 41, has
been dean of students and professor of psychology at Mercer since 1946. Before coming to Mercer he was adviser to
students at New York City College and dean of men at Denison University.

A native of Rock Hill, S. C., he graduated from Furman University in 1940. He earned both masters and doctorate
in education at Columbia University. Dr. Malcolm Lester, professor of history at Davidson, worked with Burts at Mercer for four
years. Lester was academic dean while Burts was dean of students. “I have known Dean Burts for the past 15
years,” Lester said, “and for four of those years we were closely associated in administrative work at Mercer. I believe
that students will find him very approachable and very sympathetic to their needs and problems.”

Dr. Burts will not teach psychology at Davidson—at least not until he becomes well-established in his new job. He will
assume his position at the beginning of the fall semester, 1961. The new dean succeeds John C. Bailey who resigned
after serving for four years in a temporary capacity. Dean Bailey will stay on the job through the summer school
sessions and will return to teaching Bible and Greek in the fall. Burts will be the only top man in
the administration who is not a Davidson graduate. At present, the president, dean of faculty, director of admissions, registrar, bursar,
and business manager are all Davidson graduates.

The new dean is married to the former Annamarie Boaz of Wilmette, Ill. They have two children, Rick, age 15,
and Julie, 13. The family will move to Davidson during the summer. Burts is a Baptist, a member of the
Rotary Club, Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and a number of honorary organizations.

Hussein Kamel Selim, head of the Arab Information Center in Washington, D. C., will follow up the formal Book-of-the-Year program
with a special visit to the campus March 2. Selim has accepted the invitation to discuss the issues of Exodus
from the point of view of an Arab. Stipulations by Leon Uris, the book's author, and Moshe Leshem, Israeli consul,
prevented Selim from being a part of the regular panel program next Wednesday. The Arab leader expressed considerable interest in
the outcome of next week's discussions and the opportunity to pursue issues raised or ignored at that time. He will
speak in chapel Thursday and will also be available for other meetings with students.

Born in 1896, Selim was educated at the Khedivieh School and the Higher Training College in Cairo. He later completed
undergraduate and graduate work at Liverpool University in England. His educational work has included numerous professorships in history and economics,
mainly at Cairo University. His latest official post was as undersecretary of the Egyptian Ministry of Information. He has also
served in the Egyptian delegation to the United Nations. Selim has written several books, both in Arabic and English. Among
his works have been Economic History of Modern Europe and The Place of Agriculture in Egyptian Economy.
