PAGE FOUR

DAVIDSON COLLECTS EMBRYONIC ART

An embryonic art collection, owned by the college, has been on display in the Cunningham Building the last few weeks. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Down With The Stink! Cry Gingko Abolitionists

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Gingko biloba, female, relic of the last coal age, stood serenely in front of the west wing of Belk Dormitory, completely oblivious to the small sign on its trunk. The sign read, “Down with the stink!” and urged students to sign a petition to have the female gingko trees removed. Student opinion was running high against the two offenders, the second one situated behind Little Dormitory. Within two days there were over 250 names on the petition.

NEW TRADITION

It was obvious that the student body wanted something done about the trees, but the particulars varied considerably. Advocates of a move suggested destinations ranging from the cross-country course to Queens College, in which case the freshman class could start a new tradition of “Fertilizing the Gingko” with pollen from the all-male Davidson brood. Others suggested a more utilitarian purpose for the trees in their present locations. “The ROTC department ought to put a flag on it,” said one enterprising sophomore. Still others merely bowed to Fate. “Barfberry? Good name,” commented a Belk resident as he ruefully scraped his feet. The reaction of last weekend’s temporary residents was summed up by one fair lady’s query: “Dogs?”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Johnston: Study Abroad Naturally Complicated

BY AVIEE KIRBY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“It is only natural that a student who studies abroad will run into many complications,” Dean Frontis W. Johnston pointed out in an interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN this week. “The student must know what he wants and be prepared to take the risks involved in getting it. But the initiative should always be with the student.”

Asked about a suggestion by six students who spent their junior years abroad, that Davidson designate one man or office to handle the problems of foreign study, Johnston pointed out that the faculty had appointed Prof. Bradley D. Thompson to that position last year. “The matter of evaluation of credits remains in the hands of the Curriculum Committee, which usually designates that power to me, and I consult Prof. Thompson.

“Last year Davidson affiliated with the Junior Year Abroad Program of Vanderbilt in Aix-en-Provence, France.” As for advising the student, “We can’t be expected to know about every university system. We have boys come in here who want to go to Ghana, India, and practically everywhere,” Johnston pointed out. “We will do everything we can to facilitate a boy who wants to go abroad, but we must protect the interests of the college. We reserve the right to accept or reject credits. We will help the student as much as we can both in arranging to go and evaluating his work when he gets back. We have some information in this office—more than before—and will help the student as much as we can.”

Council Votes 10-1 Against Gambling

Wednesday night at their weekly meeting the Student Council voted down a motion by council member Wyche Fowler to delete the gambling clause from the Student Body Constitution. Following heavy discussion concerning, among other things, the widespread disregard by students of the student body regulation on gambling as well as the failure of student body officers to do anything about it, the council saw fit to defeat the motion by a 10 to 1 vote.

In taking this action, however, President George Trask warned that as a result of the concern expressed by the Student Council members over this matter, the student body can expect a crackdown by student government officers on gambling on campus.

The clause in question is section three of article eight in the student body regulations, and reads as follows: “No student shall be guilty of gambling. Every student found guilty of violation of this regulation shall be punished in accordance with the seriousness of the offense, with maximum penalty being suspension from the College.”

Prof. Bradley Thompson explained further that because Davidson affiliated with Vanderbilt only late last year, there had been small student response to the Junior Year in France Program. “With the Vanderbilt-in-France,” he said, “there are no problems of credit transferal, nor with living and study accommodations. The only practical solution to the whole problem is in the affiliation with other universities in sending students abroad. The problem of transferal of credit is a great one. There are often no real criteria for transferal of credit even from American institutions. Students who transfer credit from abroad must have the permission of the department concerned as is the case with students attending American universities.”

Mascot Gets Name

(Continued From Page One)

Spartanburg and Columbia, S.C., and one in Atlanta, Ga., announced that Davidson had a “monster cat on campus and was starving him so that he would not sleep through football games as the previous mascot had. The reports that we are starving our ‘monster’ may put the college in ill-repute with the Humane Society. President Martin received a letter this week from a woman out west berating the school and announcing that she is sending a report to the society about the fact that we are starving our mascot to keep him ferocious. Our case may turn into one similar to Iredell County’s much-publicized “Bunnybop.” A letter from the president of Western Carolina College in Cullowhee, wanting to know how their institution can secure a wildcat, has also been received by the college. They have been searching for one for some time to give the school’s nickname of “Catamounts” an added flavor.

Tour Conductor Arriving Sunday

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1961

ABANDONED EASELS supply an art study all their own in the glass-walled studio of the new building. Lab classes do painting, sculpturing, and other art work there in the afternoons.

The conductor of the Southern Colleges Tours for 1962, Mrs. Wade Boggs, Jr. of Richmond, Va., will be in Davidson this Sunday evening and Monday morning as the guest of President and Mrs. D. Grier Martin for the purpose of talking with those interested in European travel next summer. The tour is planned with students in mind, and while the emphasis is on sightseeing, the leaders try to help the tour members enjoy themselves in as relaxed an atmosphere as possible.

EUROPEAN LEADER

Realizing that many students would prefer to travel independently, the leaders of the tour suggest that those who wish and can, stay over after the tour. In this way the students will have the benefit of expert help in seeing and doing the most important and worthwhile things at the beginning of the summer. Afterwards they can have the experience of independent travel.

CULTIVATE AN ORCHARD

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Burley
Cole
Frey
Ghigo
Goodykoontz
Hampton
Kuykendall
Lester
MacRae
McGill
Mrs. Moore
Maloney
MacCormac
Pinkerton
Polley
Richey
Sailstad
Thompson
Winkler

President D. Grier Martin assured that “serious consideration will be given to any petition from the students in the interest of their welfare.” Asked about the female gingko tree near his house, President Martin stated that he was “thoroughly familiar with its beauty, utility, and odor.”

THE PETITION

After a brief chase through the newly-hallowed halls of Cunningham, Mrs. J. B. Moore, Supervisor of Dormitories and first of the hierarchy consulted, remarked that it was “the first fall trouble in five years.” In a lighter vein, she suggested that the boys collect the berries and cultivate an orchard—then send it to their worst enemy.

GINGKO BILOBA, female, (pictured above) was the cause of a big “stink” on campus this week. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Dr. Lammers Praises Virtues Of Gingko Biloba

Within the relatively odor-proof, air-conditioned walls of Dana Science Hall, Biology Professor William T. Lammers spoke enthusiastically of the virtues of Gingko Biloba. “It has a pretty shape; or should have when left alone to grow,” said Dr. Lammers. “In the fall the leaves turn a brilliant yellow overnight, and then drop overnight, so you...only have to rake your yard once.” In addition, the ginkgo is a hardy tree with no known diseases and an ability to thrive in space that would be fatal to most other trees. The ginkgo has a fascinating history. Evolutionarily, it lies between the conifers and flowering trees. It probably would not have survived from the last coal age except for the fact that the Chinese held it to be semi-sacred. Before its introduction to the United States, the ginkgo was found only in Chinese temple yards. Indeed, the tree does not exist except in a domestic state. “Because of its hardihood, the ginkgo is in great demand among city beautifiers,” Dr. Lammars continued. But whoever planted female trees here “really blundered.”

“In many states it is illegal to sell female ginkgo trees. The females are nothing but a nuisance,” he said, refusing to extend this comment beyond the plant kingdom. Pulpwood is the only commercial use, but the male is “highly recommended” for decorative purposes. As for the berry-bearing females, they “ought to be cut down” and replaced with the non-offensive males. “There is no need for the females on this campus, none whatever. And they certainly should not be near any beaten path.”

As an impetus to any ginkgo-philes, Dr. Lammars ventured to taste one of the berries. “It is sharp and tangy, with the taste and consistency of Limburger cheese,” he reflected. But it would appear that even the biology department would rather have free passage on sidewalks and pure atmosphere than a highly improbable new source of epicurean delight.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

The Cunningham Fine Arts Building has become a regular student body. The Board also petitioned, if not the humor, which revolved about the trees came to a rest with Grover C. Meetze, Director of Physical Plant. “I will submit the petition; the trees are more obnoxious than usual this year,” Mr. Meetze told petitioner Dick Forrester. “No comment,” Mr. Meetze told the DAVIDSONIAN. And so, as the Battle of the Barfberry came to an uncertain and temporary truce awaiting official ruling on the petition, Janitor Heywood Goode phlegmatically hosed away the overnight treasures from Davidson's relic of the last coal age.

The publication nominated candidates for editor of the Handbook as it does for all other student publications. Despite the fact that the Handbook is not published until summer, an editor is being selected this fall to ease the pressure of planning the book and to enable the editor to be able to go to the Journalism Conference in Miami in November. The staff also plans to hold a banquet in December, as do all other publications.

Since freshmen are not allowed to vote in student body elections during the first semester, they will be the only students ineligible to vote on Wednesday. Plans for the election will be announced in assembly on Monday.

Tastee - Freez OLD CHARLOTTE HIGHWAY CORNELIUS

Few growth industries offer the graduate as many opportunities for personal achievement as that of modern communications. Its potentials are virtually unlimited—its scope as broad as the imagination. As a major factor in communications, General Telephone Company of North Carolina has many employment opportunities for college-trained people. Contact your Placement office for full information.

SERVING HOT DOGS MILK SHAKES HAMBURGERS SUNDAES BARBECUE BANANA SPLITS CHEESEBURGER CONES CHUCK WAGON STEAK

If you are majoring in Engineering, Mathematics, Physics, Business Administration, the Liberal Arts or the Social Sciences, then there are many areas within our system where fine opportunities exist for you to shape your own future, in accordance with your personal interests and attributes. If you have initiative, a willingness to learn and a desire for personal advancement, we invite you to explore the possibilities of becoming associated with a progressive company with the highest of reputations in the communications industry.

GENERAL TELEPHONE America’s Largest Independent Telephone System

Your Placement Director will be pleased to provide you with a copy of our brochure on Management Careers.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS Davidson students who have taken the tour and who are currently enrolled include Harrison Wellford, Leonard Richardson, Clay Atkins, D. G. Martin, Duke Bumgardner, and Danny Carrell. Other men's colleges represented on the tour have been the Citadel, Duke, Princeton, U.N.C., University of Florida, and others. Women's colleges include, besides Mary Baldwin, Randolph-Macon, Sweet Briar, Carolina, Converse, Winthrop, Stephens, St. Mary’s, Mount Vernon, and a number of others.

SAVE MONEY WITH THESE LOW COLLEGE RATES PLAYBOY (1 yr reg $6) PLAYBOY (2 yrs reg $11) TIME (1 yr reg $7) TIME (2 yrs reg $12) US NEWS and WR (39 wks) NEWSWEEK (1 yr reg $6) NEWSWEEK (34 weeks) LIFE (1 yr reg $5.95) LIFE (2 yrs) Sports Ill. (1 yr reg $6.75) SPORTS ILLUSTRATED (2 yrs) Harper's Monthly (1 yr reg $6) Saturday Review (1 yr reg $7) SATURDAY REVIEW (2 years) NEW YORKER (8 mos reg $5) ATLANTIC MONTHLY (8 mos) Archit Forum (1 yr reg $6.50) Christian Sci Mon (6 mos) ESQUIRE (8 mos reg $4) Ladies Home Jour (23 mos reg $5) Sat. Eve. Post (39 wks reg $4.50) LOOK (1 yr reg $4) MADEMOISELLE (1 yr reg $5) Good Housekeeping (2 yrs reg $6) READER'S DIGEST (8 mos) SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN (1 yr) The Reporter (1 yr reg $6) New Republic (1 yr reg $8) THE NATION (1 yr reg $8) Manchester Guardian (1 yr AIR) REALITES (1 yr reg $15) GRAPHIS (1 yr reg $15) NY TIMES (Sunday only) NY TIMES (Book Review 1 yr) AMERICAN HOME (25 mos) Amer Jour of Medicine (1 yr) Amer Jour of Surgery (1 yr) Art Direction (1 yr reg $6) Art News (1 yr reg $21.50) Arts & Archit (1 yr reg $5) Better Homes & Gardens (1 yr) Car & Driver (1 yr reg $5) Changing Times (1 yr) Downbeat (1 yr reg $7) Electronic World (1 yr reg $5) FLYING (1 yr reg $6) FLYING (2 yrs reg $11) FORBES (1 yr reg $7.50) FORTUNE (1 yr reg $10) Glamour (1 yr reg $3) Harper's Bazaar (1 yr reg $5) Hi-Fidelity (15 mos reg $7.50) Hi-Fi Stereo Review (1 yr reg $5) HOLIDAY (15 mos reg $7.50) House Beautiful (2 yrs reg $10) House & GARDEN (1 yr reg $6) HOUSE & HOME (1 yr reg $6) Living 4 Young Hmkrs (1 yr) Modern Bride (1 yr reg $3) McCALL’S (1 yr) Modern Photography (1 yr reg $4) Popular Boating (1 yr reg $4) Popular Electronics (1 yr reg $4) Popular Mech (20 mos reg $5.80) Popular Photography (1 yr reg $5) REDBOOK (1 yr) ROAD & TRACK (1 yr reg $5) SCIENCE DIGEST (1 yr) The Second Coming (15 issues) Show Business Ill (1 yr) SING OUT (1 yr reg $5) SKI MAGAZINE (2 yrs reg $5) SKIING NEWS (2 yrs reg $5) SUNSET (2 yrs reg $5) Theatre Arts (9 mos reg $5.65) Town & Ctry (22 mos reg $13.75) TV Guide (44 wks reg $4.40) VOGUE (1 yr 20 issues)

ORDER NOW, publisher will bill you later STUDENT SUBSCRIPTION SERVICE 1743 NW. Kenmore, Los Angeles 27, Calif. Enclosed $_____. Send subscription to: Address: ____________________________ Class of: ____________________________