FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 1961

ANTE-BELLUM DORMITORY, Oak Row, and its twin, Elm Row, are soon to be renovated inside and outside. When completed, the buildings will be used as music practice rooms in the Fine Arts Quadrangle. (Davidsonian Photo by Colvin)

Dorms Will Get Face Lifting For Spring

Original

Over the Christmas holidays, the final planning was completed for the restoration of Oak and Elm Rows. Cost estimates are being obtained so that contracts may be let in sufficient time to renovate these buildings before the Cunningham Arts Building is completed. Robert A. Currie, business manager, stated that the restoration was part of the college’s plan to create a Fine Arts Quadrangle consisting of Oak and Elm Rows, the Cunningham Fine Arts Building, the Eumenean and Philanthropic Halls, and the Church.

DIRECT LINE

In this quadrangle, the main entrance to the Cunningham Fine Arts Building will be in a direct line with the pillars of the church. Last winter, Elm Row was moved to the east so that the Cunningham Fine Arts Building and the Church might face each other unobstructed. Currie also foresees moving several trees to provide for a clear line of sight between the two buildings. Under the restoration program, both Oak and Elm Row will have their exteriors renovated. Currie emphasized that nothing will be done to change the exterior of the buildings. They will merely be restored as closely to the original buildings as possible.

MUSIC ROOMS

The interior of Elm Row will be the more drastically changed of the two. When restored, it will house four music practice rooms. The northern half of Oak Row will be converted into a large practice room for both organ and piano. Neither landscaping nor additional shrubbery is planned in the restoration. However, new walkways will be laid down in front of the Cunningham Building and Oak and Elm Rows. Originally, both Oak and Elm Row were used as dormitories, but since their construction in 1838, they have been used for many purposes including classrooms, fraternity meetings, and club or organizational meetings.

Cleland is Speaker At Vesper Service

Dr. James T. Cleland, Dean of the Chapel at Duke University, will be the speaker for the Vesper service Sunday night. Dr. Cleland, a native of Scotland and a Presbyterian, was educated at Glasgow University Divinity Hall. He holds a doctorate in theology from Union Theological Seminary in New York City and received an honorary degree of doctor of divinity from Davidson in 1951. He has been on the faculty at the Divinity School at Duke since 1945. Cleland has also taught at Glasgow University Divinity Hall, Amherst College, Union Theological Seminary, and Pacific School of Religion.

ELM ROW — Structural damage such as this will be repaired in the forthcoming restoration. (Davidsonian Photo by Colvin)

Registration For Classes Begins Monday Morning

Upperclassmen registration for courses taken in the spring semester will begin this Monday, Jan. 9, and will continue through Saturday, Jan. 14. Freshmen will not make course changes until semester grades have been received. Upperclassmen may register at any time next week from the hours of 9-11 a.m. and 2-4 p.m., with the exception of Saturday when such facilities will be open only in the morning.

NO CHANGES

F. W. Hengeveld, director of admissions and registrar, emphasized that, as in the past, students who are not planning to make course or schedule changes will not be required to register. Second semester registration will be held in the Registrar's office. However, any freshman desiring to drop a course or change his schedule must consult with his faculty adviser.

FRESHMAN MATH

Hengeveld stated that a list will be posted for freshmen indicating which math course each freshman will be allowed to take after such grades for this semester are determined. Payment of fees to the college must be taken care of during the first three days of the new semester, Jan. 30 through Feb. 1. Penalty for late fees will go into effect after Feb. 1. Fees will be paid at the bursar’s office.

YMCA Withdraws Handbook Support

The Davidson YMCA has terminated its sponsorship of The Wildcat Handbook, furnished to all entering freshmen each year. At the Dec. 12 meeting of the Y's Board of Directors, approval was given to a cabinet recommendation that the YMCA be relieved of further responsibilities for the publication of The Wildcat Handbook. However, it is not likely that the publication will cease to exist. President D. Grier Martin indicated to THE DAVIDSONIAN that sponsorship for the handbook will be sought elsewhere. The matter willprobably go before the Publications Board. "It is too valuable a publication to be discontinued," he said. Jimmy Richardson, YMCA president, approached the Publications Board through a letter last spring, which indicated the Y's reluctance to continue printing the handbook, and requested that the board assume sponsorship. No definite action was taken on the proposal.

"The YMCA is discontinuing its association with the handbook for a number of reasons," Richardson explained. "First, it is felt that the Y has no business in the publishing field. Actually, all the Y does is appoint the editor and pay for printing costs. Under the recent setup, there was no direct control, as the appointed editor had complete freedom." A major consideration was the expense, which limited other possible YMCA work, Richardson indicated. The publication averaged costing $500 over the financial aid received through advertising.

Power, railways, and forests. In all other segments of the Swedish economy, free enterprise is the overwhelming pattern. Sweden has the highest living standard in Europe. It could perhaps be still higher, but Swedes like to enjoy life as well as make money. The highly progressive income tax system is such that the workers have little incentive to put in overtime, and talented people see little reason to pick up extra jobs. But at the same time, they are less likely to get gastric ulcers because of overwork. Yet, if somebody by chance gets one, he can enjoy exceptionally good medical care paid by the government.

Trydell Says Americans Misunderstand Socialism
JOHN KUYKENDALL

John Kuykendall has been appointed fraternity liaison officer for the remainder of the academic year. President D. G. Martin made the announcement on behalf of the administration this afternoon. Kuykendall, who served as student body president during 1958-59, is now in the Alumni and Public Relations Department. Red Book changes made by the faculty on Dec. 6 provide for the appointment of a fraternity liaison officer, a member of the administration, to supervise fraternity conduct.

Cadet Colonel Gaines Names Staff Officers

Cadet First Colonel Stan Gaines, second semester ROTC chief, announced his general staff and company commanders last week. Gaines and the second semester crew will take over in a special ceremony at drill on Jan. 31. Jennings Snider was appointed brigade executive officer, with the rank of major. Gaines’ general staff is manned by three majors, George Blaylock (S-1), Scott Lacy (S-2,3), and Quinton Boyd (S-4). Company commanders are Bill Cannon (A), Sanders Dallas (B), Harold Bynum (C), and Tee Redding (D). Pete Wyrick will head the Martin Honor Guard and Buck Flintom is to command the band. Retiring Brigade Commander Robert C. Young praised the performance of the corps during his command and said that he appreciated the effort put out by everyone concerned. Major Robert W. Fleming, assistant PMS&T, said, "This semester's officers and non-coms have done a terrific job. They have built a fine corps and are turning a fine corps over to the new officers."

At the switch-over ceremony, the old officers will march the corps to the parade field. Young and Gaines will troop the line, and as they pass each company, the old officers will retire to the rear and the new will step forward and assume command. Then the entire corps will pass Young and Gaines in review.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Cumming
Horton
Plott
Elliott
Lester
Purcell
Frey
Lord
MacRae
Rhodes
Ghigo
Schenck
Gross
Minter
Schene
Pierce
Threlkeld

Gift Fund Campaign Lags Short of Goal

The YMCA Christmas Gift Fund Committee has collected a little over two thousand dollars to date. This does not include the money that was pledged before Christmas. The pledged gifts are expected to come in during the next two weeks. The goal, set this year at around $3,500, has not as yet been reached. Bob Rea, chairman of the Gift Fund Committee, stated that the campaign was a little behind schedule because of a late start. He expected the drive to take a decided upswing this month. "Many of the boys were hit by the normal pre-Christmas financial squeeze, and were unable to give at the time they were contacted," Rea explained. He also said that several students went home early and were not contacted. The committee hopes to get in touch with these and all others who have not been contacted within the next 10 days. "The Gift Fund Committee urges any student who has not contributed and wishes to do so to please see either John Williams or myself," he added.

This year's gift fund was designated for the Boys Town in Madras, India, to aid in the construction of shelters for orphaned boys.

Betas Cop Award For Giving Blood

Beta Theta Pi, with 98.2 percent of its membership contributing, won the bi-annual blood drive sponsored by the ROTC department and the Interfraternity Council. In second and third place were Sigma Nu and Alpha Tau Omega respectively. Over 300 pints of blood were collected for the Red Cross during the two-day drive in December. The IFC initiated the competition in the drive several years ago when it offered a plaque to the fraternity with the highest percentage of blood donors. Sigma Nu had held the plaque for the last two semesters.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

One of the best investments you'll ever make...

You know what you invest in advanced ROTC ... two years of classroom time and outside study. But just see how handsomely your investment pays off. First and foremost, there’s the proud moment in Graduation Week when the gold bars of a Second Lieutenant are pinned on your Army uniform ... and deep inside the warm sense of accomplishment at having made it. There’s immediate help in meeting expenses: a subsistence allowance of $535 for the two-year advanced ROTC course. Uniforms and military textbooks paid for. $117 for your six-week summer camp training, plus travel allowance. And when you're commissioned, a $330 uniform allowance. You discharge your military obligation with the traditional rank, pay, privileges, and responsibilities of an officer in the United States Army.

And later, when you're starting your climb up the civilian ladder, advanced ROTC will still be paying off. Success in the executive areas of business and industry comes earlier and more substantially to the man who can lead. Few are born leaders; but leadership can be learned. And advanced ROTC is a great place to learn it. Talk with the Professor of Military Science at your school. Learn more about advanced ROTC, particularly about the ROTC course in Leadership, with its practical experience in command responsibilities.