Issue: 6

WEDNESDAY NIGHT BREAK:

As noted last week, the Wednesday Night Break will be held on Tuesday night this week. That is, there will be hot dogs and Coca-Cola for all in the ballroom tonight, at 9:00 PM.

Come one, come all - after all, it's free.

DESKMAN TO MEET:

Head Deskman, Paul Branson has announced that the deskman meeting this week must be attended by all deskmen and substitutes. The meeting is to be held tomorrow, Wednesday, at 3:30 PM in the Blue Room.

BREAK GROUP SEEKS NEW BLOOD:

The Wednesday Night Break Committee is still searching for two more members. It is felt that the addition of these two people will enable us to have breaks more worthy of the name. Anyone that is interested in this sort of work will be welcomed to the group. Just leave your name at the Union Desk if you desire to join in this most rewarding work.

THIS WEEK'S MOVIE:

Director John Huston brings to the screen this Friday night one of the outstanding films made, THE MALTESE FALCON.

H. Bogart and P. Lorre are the stars of this award-winning film.

July 18, 1961

Ed: G.P. Nowlin

THE CRITICAL DIVIDE AT DAVIDSON:

During the winter term here at Davidson, there was much criticism of the lack of tutorial courses and other courses that give opportunity for critical survey of a field. Yet, in the courses of the more conventional type, there has been a sad lack of critical thought.

Some professors, in their lectures, have intentionally made comments that were invitations to criticism and question, yet the only response they received was the scratch of pen in notebook. This would seem to be poor evidence of our capacity for critical thought.

Professor Patterson, of the Economics Department, gave a talk in chapel during the year in which he was highly critical of some of the more conservative organizations in politics and was roundly cheered. Yet, Professor Marrotte was soundly hissed for uttering a "disparaging" remark about Senator Goldwater by many of the same people that cheered Professor Patterson. Is this evidence of critical thought?

This is evidence rather of a profound laziness - a willingness to accept all that is laid before us. We can ill afford to criticize college policies until the day comes that we have come to terms with our own shortcomings in critical thought.

APOLOGY:

The editor wishes to make public his apology to the Slater Food Service Team for the reference to "garbage" in last week's issue.