HONOR SYSTEM PROVOKES COMMENTS (See Page Three)

VOL. L

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1961

Baptist Win Resurrects Ancient Cat

President D. Grier Martin was surprised last Saturday by the presentation of a stuffed wildcat which was donated by Calhoun
Hepp, a Davidson alumnus. The surprise came at a picnic in Greenville following the Davidson-Furman game. After Hepp had presented
the cat and related its history, President Martin replied that he was “very grateful” to Hepp for the gift. He
added that it looked as if the cat had been in the game, since it had lost its tail.

Caught in a trap in the mountains above Greenville about twenty years ago, the cat had been stuffed and given
at that time to Hepp to console him after a Davidson loss to Furman. Because the mantel in his home
is too small to hold the cat, it will probably be placed beside the other stuffed cat now on display
in the gym. Martin recalls that Davidson kept a live wildcat here during the last war. He feels, since Furman
has a live white horse as a mascot, that a “properly caged” cat could again be allowed.

President Martin gingerly strokes the wildcat presented to him in Greenville last Saturday. The cat was a gift of Calhoun
Hepp, a Davidson alumnus. (Davidsonian Photo By Joe McCutcheon.)

The six were interviewed in a fact-finding follow-up to a newspaper editorial criticizing the college’s failure to “internationalize.” They are
Phil Arnold, Robert Davidson, Richard Davis, Butch Sims, George Trask, and Joe Whiteman.

STUDENTS HAMPERED

Students Get Voice

“Davidson has hampered students’ going abroad to study by a lack of information, authoritative advice, and enthusiasm,” Trask commented, summing
up the attitude of the group. Although most of the students were grateful for encouragement from professors and other members
of the college community, all regretted the difficulty in getting informed help in planning foreign study.

Admissions Office Has 31 Applications In Schedule Planning

Students this week were extended invitations to sit on both the Academic and Non-Academic Scheduling Committees of the faculty. President
D. Grier Martin released the information through letters to Student Body President George Trask. The move follows numerous complaints by
students and THE DAVIDSONIAN concerning the schedule and the need for consulting student opinion in forming it.

Although this year’s Freshman Class is barely settled, attention has already been turned to the prospective class of 1966 in
the college admissions office. Some 31 applications for next year’s class had been received through the middle of this week,
H. Edmunds White, associate director of admissions, reported. Fourteen of these are designated in the early decision category. This is
the new program initiated by the college last fall enabling students considering only Davidson to receive word on their acceptance
by Dec. 1.

“We are anticipating more early decision applicants and more to be accepted under the plan this year,” commented White. “Last
year we accepted 28, and they all have enrolled. There is no fixed limit on the number.”

White also stated that there will be some increase in the number of college days which representatives of Davidson will
attend this year. This is mostly due to the addition of Bill Bondurant, ’58, to the staff of the admissions
office. The fall schedule tentatively calls for four or five days in the following areas: Cincinnati-Columbus, Chattanooga-Atlanta, St. Louis and
New York. There will of course be the continued visits to schools and communities in Virginia, North and South Carolina,
Georgia and Florida areas. The St. Louis and New York trips will be in conjunction with conventions and study groups.

Trask and Bob Waugh, IFC president, were invited to sit on the Non-Academic Scheduling Committee as non-voting members. However, they
may attend all meetings and enter into all discussions. Last year, students holding these same offices sat with the group.

The innovation comes in the addition of a non-voting member to the committee which schedules holidays, exams, class schedules, and
dates for the opening and closing of semester sessions. The committee recommended to Dr. Martin this week that a student
be allowed to sit with them. However, they placed several conditions.

“The student representative would not be invited to participate in meetings pertaining to academic scheduling per se; at the discretion
of the committee he might be asked to excuse himself during certain phases of discussion and voting; and he would
not be allowed to release statements to the campus paper or general press regarding the business of the committee or
its deliberations.

“I hope this will result in adequate representation of student opinion,” Martin said. “It seems to me rather important that
some effort be made to find out just which of certain alternatives the majority of students would like to have.”

The Student Council will select the student representatives.

BY LEE KIRBY

European Scholars Chide Teachers, Administration

Davidsonian Associate Editor

Six Davidson students who attended foreign universities during the past year agreed in a DAVIDSONIAN interview this week that faculty
and administration lack understanding and knowledge about study abroad.

“It was quite discouraging when I tried to find information on study abroad,” Arnold said. “I finally found out about
it from friends of my family.”

STANDARD PROCEDURE

Other comments ranged from surprise at “the complete lack of available knowledge” to “Davidson didn’t give me any advice, they
don’t know anything! I had the impression they were opposed to my going!”

All seven agreed that Davidson should at least set up a standard procedure to regulate the transfer of credits. “As
it is now, you take your academic life in your own hands to go over there,” Sims said.

When asked to suggest improvements, most of the group indicated that Davidson should set up one office or one official
to be in charge of disseminating information about foreign study and of advising students academically. There should be at least
one person on the faculty who understands foreign universities capable of helping the student and evaluating work for transfer of
credits.

STUDENTS ENTHUSIASTIC

“I think that there is more to be gained from a semester of study in Europe than a year at
Davidson,” Trask said. “Not only do you gain in academic knowledge, but you get a more enlightened view of the
world.”

In evaluating their work in Europe, all were very enthusiastic. They pointed out that the travel itself is educational and
that European universities offer many cultural advantages not available anywhere in America.

“And studying abroad is the only way to get a practical knowledge of a language,” Davidson pointed out. “I could
have never learned French in the way I did by staying here.”

“NEW ATTITUDE”

Other students agreed that

DIRECTORY ISSUE THIS WEEK (See Page Two)

NUMBER THREE

The Brothers Four Will Lead Off Concert Series

4th Dance Weekend Plans Are Shattered

BY GREG GOVAN

Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Interfraternity Council contracted The Brothers Four this fall for the first of the ’61-’62 IFC Concert Series and a
“fourth” dance weekend in November, but learned this week that the “big weekend” idea is all but out.

The IFC was coordinating the clubs and colleges since their vocal group's concert here onHere is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

big rise to fame last year. Their biggest hit record was “Greenfields.”

Saturday, Nov. 11 with the appearance of Johnny Mathis the preceding night at the Coliseum in Charlotte.

Vagabond Tryouts Will Begin Monday

Tryouts for the Vagabonds’ first production of the year, which will celebrate the dedication of the new fine arts building,
will be held Monday at 3:30 and again at 7:30 in the rehearsal hall of the Cunningham Building.

An announcement came this week that Mathis had cancelled his program. This was followed by word from Mrs. J. S.
Moore, supervisor of dormitories, that in no case would the dorms be opened for dates that weekend.

“This could have been a great weekend,” Bob Waugh, IFC President said. The three-day period was to be patterned after
the successful “extra weekend” last fall worked around two concerts. At that time, the IFC sponsored The Weavers here on
Saturday night following a Kingston Trio concert in Charlotte Friday. A football game Saturday afternoon and fraternity parties completed the
program. The possibility of a Wofford Brothers football game, The Four and Mathis was too good to pass up, Waugh
commented. Though disappointed that he could not “manufacture another attraction” to replace Mathis, he hoped the open Friday night and
the closed dorms would not put a damper on the concert weekend festivities.

Mrs. Moore explained that her action was based on consideration of the students. It is “unfair to the residents of
Belk and Richardson to make them move out for a fourth time,” she said.

Admission to the concert will be by the concert series ticket required of all fraternity members. Independents may buy a
ticket for the three concerts through the IFC.

The Brothers Four, from the University of Washington, have been touring night-

Phi Gams to present “Noah.”

The dramatic group will stage selected scenes from Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night's Dream” for the Oct. 23-27 festivities. This is
a switch from the previously announced plan to present “Noah.”

“The change was made when we realized that there were really only two speaking roles in that play,” explained John
Sneden, head of the drama department and director for this play. The new choice will have speaking parts for 11
people, nine men and two women. In addition, there will be a number of non-speaking roles. Students will also be
needed in all phases of production and staging. Anyone interested in working on sets, costumes, and lights should contact Sneden.

Tryouts Monday will have an extended significance, too. Sneden will also be looking for people to cast in the year’s
first full production, “The Hasty Heart,” set for Nov. 8-10. It has speaking roles for eight men and one woman.

The second of the regular Wednesday workshops next week will feature a dramatization of Giraudoux’s one-act play, “The Apollo of
Belac.” The workshops are held at 9:30 p.m. in the fine arts building and are open to everyone.

Why Flag Pole Flagless?

The flagpole is finally up! Massive disobedience on the part of the student body prevented its erection last spring. But
the college took advantage of the summer vacation and now the flagpole stands between Belk and Chambers. However, one thing
has been missed. No flag has been flown from the pole since the beginning of the college year.

When asked by THE DAVIDSONIAN why no flag has fluttered from the pole, Robert Currie, business manager of the college,
reacted with surprise. “You mean the ROTC Dept. hasn’t been flying the flag each day?” He was assured that no
flag has been present on the pole this year. “Well,” he replied, “I'll have to make a note of that.”
He did and suggested that the ROTC Dept. be questioned about the matter.

The sergeant in the Orderly Room knew exactly what the trouble was. He just had a hard time explaining it.
“You know the things on the pole you raise and lower the flag with? The ropes? Well, they’re all mixed
up. We can’t raise or lower a flag, either one. But the college has said that they will be fixed.”

The flagpole stands alone, undraped. But there yet may be some action around it. And in more ways than one,
too. Some students have expressed an interest in taking it down.

---

“OH, SAY CAN YOU SEE?...”
