FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

STERLING MARTIN (extreme right), LAST AT FIRST... BY BILL PRIDGEN Davidsonian Sports Writer

Harriers Visit Citadel: VPI, Catawba Wednesday

The Davidson cross-country team travels to Charleston, S.C., tomorrow afternoon for a meet with The Citadel. The harriers are looking for a repeat of last year’s 22-33 victory over the Bulldogs. Comments Coach Heath Whittle, “They have been Conference track champions for the past two or three years, so they have some good runners. I’m looking for a real close meet,” concluded Whittle.

Wednesday afternoon the Cat harriers lost to a strong Wake Forest team, 24-31 (low score wins). Despite the team loss, Co-captain Sterling Martin put forth a fine individual effort that left the first Wake runner over 30 seconds behind. Martin's time for the rugged four-mile course was 22 minutes and 50 seconds. Other finishers included: Ledford (WF), Turner (WF), Adowe (WF), Carter (WF), Tim Spiro (D), Dave Gilmour (D), Keith McMullen (D), and Jimmy Wilkerson (D). The Deacon freshmen defeated the Davidson frosh in a match prior to the varsity meet. Taylor of Wake Forest won the two-mile jaunt in 10:42.

Chester Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

ADVERTISING PAYS

The old cliché, “It pays to advertise,” applies to colleges and universities as well as business. Prospective students must know something about a school before they will enroll, just as prospective buyers must know something about a product before they will buy. Davidson is no exception. We must continue to advertise if we want to continue to enroll top high school graduates. Despite our high academic rating and our extreme popularity among educational circles of the South (notably Converse, Salem, etc.), we are quite unknown in many parts of the U.S.A. This past summer, we told an Oregonian where we went to school. He looked puzzled for a second, and then replied, “Oh yea. That’s in Rhode Island, isn’t it?”

To enlighten those unfamiliar with our school, the college has hired Mr. Taylor Blackwell, our new publicity man. One of Blackwell's most important jobs will be to release athletic news and pictures to the wire services. We have felt all along that Davidson has needed a full-time man in this capacity, and we're glad that the college has taken such a step. A sports publicity man is just as important to an athletic system as the players, coaches, and trainers.

We also feel that one of the best ways to advertise our school is on the athletic field. By this, we don't mean that we should devote all our money and efforts to building an invincible athletic machine, which is the case in many of the nation’s larger schools. What we do mean is that we should constantly be striving to improve our athletic teams, just as we constantly strive to improve our academic program. If this means giving more scholarships, then let's give more scholarships. If it means a more extensive recruiting program, then let's get one. If it means paying our coaches more, then let’s do so. However, we are not in favor in any way whatsoever of a laxity in our academic standards. We simply believe that there are enough good athletes in the country today to fill up fifty Davidsons. So why don't we go after them a little harder?

THE CRYSTAL BALL (13-5)

Davidson is the only idle team in the conference tomorrow as inter-conference action really gets underway. We predict: Richmond 21, The Citadel 8; Furman 35, William & Mary 6; VMI 14, George Washington 7; and West Virginia 21, VPI 14.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.C.

"PLAYBOY" TUXEDO by AFTER-SIX $49.95 RENTALS ALSO

Booters Hit King College

Track Meet Slated For Monday

The semi-finals of the inter-fraternity track meet will be run Monday afternoon, October 9, beginning at 4:30 p.m. The finals will be held two days later, on Wednesday afternoon, at the same time. Graham Showalter, President of the IMAC, announced that all I-F teams must have their entries in to the Council by 12 noon on Monday. Each team will be allowed two entries in each event. In addition, Showalter pointed out that each team must furnish one official for the meet. As for eligible participants, all freshmen are eligible except those who are out for a sport at the present time. All varsity track men who have not earned the equivalent of one-half varsity letter will also be eligible. Any upperclassman out for a current sport will not be eligible. Any outstanding time or distance recorded on Monday may be carried over to Wednesday's finals. The Phi Delts are defending I-F track champions.

I-F Flickerball Action Continues

The Phi Gams, Kappa Sigs, and SAE’s jumped off to an early lead in the I-F flickerball race as all three remained the league’s only undefeated teams. On Monday, the KA’s downed the Pi Kapps, the Phi Delts nipped the Pikas, and the Phi Gams blanked the Sig Eps, 33-0. Wednesday's results: Sparked by Johnny Rogers and Buddy DuBose, the Kappa Sigs whipped the ATO’s, 37-7; the Independents donned their new jerseys and beat the Sigma Nus, 33-6; the Phi Delts edged the Sigma Chis, 19-12, in a hard-fought contest; and Tommy Hamilton scored three touchdowns as the Betas clipped the KA’s, 36-19. Next week’s schedule: Thursday—SAE’s vs. Sigma Nus, Phi Gams vs. Kappa Sigs, Phi Delts vs. Sig Eps, and Pi Kapps vs. ATO’s.

Whittle was pleased with the effort. Davis nabbed third to pace the locals. Following the meet, Whittle stated that it would be a long time before we beat the Deacons again. When questioned about this, he replied that Wake started a system of track and cross-country grant-in-aids last year. Last Friday the Whittlemen ran and defeatedPembroke, 19-place 38, over a relatively easy 3.8-mile course: Martin was first there also. Davidson will host a triangular meet this coming Wednesday as VPI and Catawba invade.

TARBY BRYANT (left), HARRISON WELLFORD (center), and WALT ECKMAN scrimmage in preparation for tomorrow's soccer opener against King College in Bristol, Tenn. (Davidsonian Staff Photo by Joe McCutchen.)

Spirited Frosh Prep For Citadel Bullpups
BY JOHN CAUSEY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

There may be a few uncertainties about next week’s freshman football game with The Citadel, but they do not deter Coach Donald Threldkeld’s enthusiasm. Threldkeld stated Wednesday, “I think the boys will really come through and win this one.” The main uncertainty concerns the day of the game. Originally scheduled for Thursday, it will now be played either Wednesday or Friday afternoon in Charleston.

Despite the final score of the team’s first game against Chowan (a 38-7 loss), Threldkeld plans to use the same starting team as faced Chowan, if possible. End Steve Heckard, quarterback Barry Story, and halfback Pat Fisher have been bothered by injuries, but expect to be able to play against Citadel. Other starters will be end Sam Grimes, tackles Don Hall and Steve Davidson, guards Bruce Dalton and Bill Wilson, center Will Jackson, fullback Tommy Worrell, and halfback Dave Hendricks.

Gibbs Rushed For 93 Yards at Citadel

Our “Wildcat of the Week” this week is Alex Gibbs, junior right halfback. Last Saturday night at Citadel, Gibbs ground out 93 yards rushing and caught several passes in his best performance of the season. The 5-9, 165-lb. speedster from Thomasville, N.C., played excellent games against both Catawba and Furman. Against Catawba he scored the 'Cats first touchdown of the season, and he tallied again at Furman. Gibbs is considered a constant breakaway threat, and a dangerous punt and kickoff receiver. Last year as a sophomore, Gibbs was Davidson's leading ground gainer with 278 yards in eight games.

Fogleman To Debut Tomorrow In Bristol
BY JOHNNY SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Faced with the goal of bettering last year's soccer record, Coach Fogelman's spirited booters travel to Bristol, Tennessee, to make their seasonal debut against King College tomorrow. Tomorrow's contest, which for the past three years has been won by Davidson by a tissue-thin margin of one goal, is scheduled to get underway at 2 p.m.

Fogelman knows nothing of the King eleven, except that the Tennesseans may hold an edge in experience since they have already played one match against Lynchburg College. Experience may be the very element lacking in the 'Cat line up. Fogelman reports that his squad is well-stocked and functioning together well, but heavy graduation losses from last year may show tell-tale signs tomorrow. Says the new mentor, “From what the boys tell me, spirit is better than before.”

Probable starting lineup is as follows: Jamie McCutchen, goalie; Tarby Bryant, fullback; Bob Meldrum, fullback; Harrison Wellford, fullback; Tom Green, center forward; Joe Kelley, inside forward; George Kuyndahl, inside forward; Rudy Glarner, wing; Charlie Sasser, wing; Zach Smith, halfback; Don MacQueen, halfback. Fred Schoen was slated to start at center, but an injury has sidelined him for tomorrow’s match. “We've got a lot of linemen,” says Fogelman, “and with the exception of Kelley, inside and wing are wide open.” The soccermen face their second opponent at Belmont Abbey this Tuesday. The first home match pits the 'Cats against the perennially tough Tarheels of North Carolina.

THE CONNOISSEUR RESTAURANT DRIVE-IN FOR 90c. OUR FOOD PREPARED BY OUR FAMOUS CHEF, INTERNATIONALLY KNOWN AS “JEFF THE CHEF”. OUR MEATS B.B. QUED IN OUR OWN B.B. QUE PIT. THERE IS PLENTY OF PARKING SPACE. WE BAR B QUE FOR HOME PARTIES, PICNICS AND CONVENTIONS. SEE US OR CALL FOR FURTHER DETAILS. PHONE 663-2861

MAKE THE CONNOISSEUR YOUR MEETING PLACE. MR. JIM PAPAS, Owner

PIZZA’S NORTH MAIN STREET LEADING RESTAURANT IN THE GOOD CITY OF MOORESVILLE, N.C. TRY OUR SPECIAL FULL COURSE LUNCHEON ALSO A SPECIAL FULL COURSE SUNDAY DINNER FOR ONLY .... $1.25

Pick-up and Delivery

Let Us Apply Our 6 Point Fall Warmup!
1. Motor tuned up.
2. Elec. System checked.
3. Grease, Oil changed.
4. Brakes checked.
5. Anti-Freeze put in.
6. Tires, tubes checked.

SPECIAL — CAR WASH $1.50
Brakes Relined On Ford, Chevrolet - $14.95
Barnette’s ESSO SERVICE STATION
Phone TR 5-9997
Highway 21 on the way to Charlotte
Service on Saturdays

Gridders Point To PC, Homecoming

The varsity football team has an open date this weekend, and Coach Bill Dole plans to utilize the extra time to prepare for the Homecoming battle with arch-rival Presbyterian College. The Wildcats now have a 1-2 record following a 20-12 loss to The Citadel last Saturday night in Charleston. The Citadel took advantage of a couple of breaks early in the game and scored quick and fast. A long pass play and an intercepted pass return netted the Bulldogs two early TD’s. In addition, their defense tightened up three times inside the twenty-yard line (once at the four), and stopped the locals who were threatening to dent the goal line. Otherwise, Davidson battled on even terms with their hosts, as verified by the statistics. The 'Cats scored late in the game.

“Gosh,” he said, “when the team went into the second half 26 points behind, I thought that was it; but those boys came out with great spirit and kept trying right to the end of the game. All this week in practice they have had a lot of spirit and showed a lot of willingness.”