PAGE FOUR

CAMPUS DORMITORY room arrangements seem indicative of the diversity found in the student body. Set-ups range from the parlor environment of Student Body President George Trask, and the “closet-sized” Fine Arts Center of Frank Taylor to the Davidson Playboy Club of John Fitzgerald and the complete mess native to about 99% of the remaining rooms. Trask and his roommate Clay Atkins have substituted a sofa-bed for one of the college-supplied, inner-spring hammocks, which they display amidst a jumble of world maps covering the walls. Taylor is pictured studying as he listens to the music of Beethoven and glances casually at his wall of classic prints. Another Belk resident claims the distinction of being the only owner of an original “Picasso” in the dorms. John Fitzgerald sits solemnly behind his bamboo curtain, trying vainly to study at the feet of a femme fatale whose stage of dress (or undress) remains a secret to the uninitiated. As for the clutter ... look around, it may be your room. (Photos by McCutchen.)

‘Harlem Communion’

The Reverend John W. Vannorsdall, pastor of the Lutheran Church at Cornell University, will conduct the vespers Sunday night at 7:30 in the Davidson College Church. The title of the sermon will be “With a Cry of Command and the Sound of the Trumpet.” Rev. Vannorsdall graduated cum laude from Harvard University with an A.B. degree. In addition, he completed his graduate study in social ethics at Harvard.

INSTRUCTED COMMUNION

Following vespers, a communion service conducted by Val Frakes will be held in the chancel of the church. It will be the special order used at the East Harlem Protestant Parish of New York City. The service will be an instructed communion which means that the minister will pause several times during the service to explain very briefly the meaning of communion and of this liturgy.

SPIRITUALS, POP MUSIC

This type of liturgy was developed in 1948 by Protestant Seminary students for the poor and semi-literate slum dwellers of New York City. The service symbolizes and acts out much of the meaning of communion. As the liturgy was developed for use among Negroes and Puerto Ricans in New York, it makes use of Negro Spirituals and contemporary popular music, as well as Reformation music and Pre-Reformation plain song.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Union Will Peddle A Book-A-Month

The Bookshelf Committee of the College Union has initiated a program designed to promote interest in reading books of current importance. The current selection is The Ugly American, by William J. Lederer and Eugene Burdick, which tells the story of “what really goes on behind the secret, red-tape curtain of American diplomacy.” “It is especially relevant in view of the rise of President Kennedy's Peace Corps,” committee chairman Harold Fisher explained. Copies of this and subsequent books in the program will be available at the Union desk for sale. Fisher stated that a different book will be promoted every 3 to 4 weeks. The books to be selected will be of no special classification, and Fisher said that his committee would welcome suggestions by students. “The purpose of this program is to spotlight books which the committee feels all students should be acquainted with, not because they are required to be but solely for personal satisfaction,” Fisher said.

Profs, Spouses ‘Gun For Turkey

Next Monday at 2 p.m., the official Davidson College Turkey Shoot will begin on the indoor rifle range in the basement of Belk Dormitory.

FC Artist Search Proving Unfruitful

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brown
Kelton
Scott
Burts
Labban
Sneden
Currie
Lilly
Stroud
Daggy
Lloyd
Tucker
Gable
MacCormac
Locke
White
Griffin
J. G. Martin
Williams

Elaine Richey Gives Violin Performance

Violinist Elaine Richey will perform in a concert on Monday, Nov. 20, at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. Accompanying Mrs. Richey will be her husband, pianist David Richey, an assistant professor of music and piano instructor at Davidson.

NUMEROUS HONORS

A native of Pittsburgh, Elaine Richey began her violin studies at the age of four. Upon being graduated from Oberlin Conservatory with special recognition, she was immediately awarded a scholarship to the Curtis Institute of Music where she studied with Ivan Galamian and served as his assistant. The young musician was winner of the 1958 Walter W. Naumburg Foundation Award and in April, 1959, made her Town Hall debut in New York with very favorable critical reviews. She is currently Assistant Concert Master for the Charlotte Symphony.

REPERTOIRE

The concert will open with Mozart’s “Adagio in E Major” and “Rondo in C Major.” Mrs. Richey will be heard in Bach's “Chaconne” from the D Minor Partita for unaccompanied violin. She will be joined by Mr. Richey in playing “Sonata in D Minor, Op. 108” by Brahms, concluding with the Chausson “Poeme, Op. 25” and the Ysaye arrangement of the “Caprice in Form of a Waltz” by Saint-Saens. Following the concert an informal reception will be held in the Art Gallery of the Duke Wing of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center.

Sweetbriar Here For Joint Concert

On Wednesday, Nov. 29, and Friday, Dec. 1, the choruses from Davidson and Sweetbriar Colleges will combine to give a unique program. An oratorio never before presented anywhere, entitled “For the Time Being,” will be given that Wednesday at the girl’s school in Lynchburg, Va.; and the Dec. 1 performance will take place here in Hodson Hall of the Fine Arts Center. The words are from a poetic work by W. H. Auden, and the music was written by Carl Bricken. Bricken is the head of the Music Department at Sweetbriar and will conduct the performances. He has also been the conductor of the Seattle, Wash., Symphony Orchestra. The programs will be a combined effort on the part of the schools. In addition to providing its chorus, Davidson will furnish the woodwind and percussion instruments. Sweetbriar will lend its chorus, two pianists, an organist, and faculty narrators to the performances.

Cumming Finds
(Continued From Page One)

the town would like to cash in on the tourist trade that would be forthcoming upon acceptance of the fact that Port Royal did have the settlement. “What final effect the map will have on the coast, I don’t know,” Cumming said. “It should benefit historians tremendously. But whetheror not they will try to move their ten thousand dollar monument is another question. After all, signs have been wrong before. And this is a ten thousand dollar one.”

GUGGENHEIM RESEARCH

Cumming’s research work of 1958-59, done for the Guggenheim Foundation, is being made to contact as follows: girls 12-15, boys 12-15, ladies under 50, men under 50, ladies over 50, and men over 50, to glean further facts about the early discovery and exploration of North America. 

He has already had an impact elsewhere. He recently testified in Washington on the case of the Seminole Indians vs. the United States. The decision on the case has not been reached yet. It remains to be seen what other information will turn up from Cumming’s work. He has hinted that there may be other facts of an important historical nature.

A calypso singer in Nassau. His name has not yet been revealed. Although it would be possible to get any number of performers for the weekend of Dec. 9, Waugh feels that the student body would prefer someone truly outstanding even if it meant postponing the concert date. This concert would be the second in this year’s 3-concert series. In the event that it falls through, however, there will be two IFC concerts during the second semester instead of one.

All faculty members and their families are eligible to enter. The grand prize, a huge Thanksgiving turkey, will be awarded as a door prize to the contestant who guesses closest to the turkey’s exact weight. A children’s door prize will also be given away. Seabbard and Blade members will decorate the basement of Belk and serve refreshments for the festive afternoon.

TRY OUR DAILY SPECIAL LUNCHEON: CHOICE OF MEAT, TWO VEGETABLES, HOT ROLL, TEA OR COFFEE WITH DESSERT

Subscribe Now at Half Price! You can read this world-famous daily newspaper for the next six months for $5.50, just half the regular subscription rate. Get top news coverage, special features. Clip for reference work. Send your order today. Enclose check or money order. Use coupon below.

Enjoy! All Our Food Prepared By “JEFF THE CHEF” ALL KINDS OF SANDWICHES COLD DRINKS CONNOISSEUR RESTAURANT

The Christian Science Monitor One Norway St, Boston 15, Mass. Send your newspaper for the time checked. 6 months $5.50 1 year $11 College Student Faculty Member Name Address City Zone State This special offer available ONLY to college students, faculty members, and college libraries.

NORTH MAIN, MOORESVILLE FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1961

by James C. SHAW SMITH, whose feats of magic are not unknown on the campus, spent his vacation last summer in the Midwest performing before various college summer-school students. Relaxed in his office, Smith discusses his idea of leisure education. (Staff Photo by McCutchen.)

Smith Expresses Idea Of Leisure Education

BY BOB IVEY Davidsonian Feature Writer

“I saw C. Shaw seesaw... pshaw!” As you might guess, this bit of literature concerns the only “C. Shaw” we have around here: Smith—of the Union fame. And that first tongue twister was only to prepare your tongue for those to come. Did you realize that this very capable “Gentleman” ('39) is even more famed as a master prestidigitator and a virtuoso in the art of legerdemain? (He’s a magician!)

Of course, all of this comes as no shock to you upperclassmen, but it may interest you to know that the Davidson campus is not the only one where his talents have been displayed and applauded. In fact, this is only one of many—especially after the experiences of the Smiths last summer. This family is really one big bundle of tricks, including five little ones aged two to twelve, which recently experienced a magical summer vacation filled with travel, music, camping, and rabbits.

Since an important facet of C. Shaw, er, Smith’s purpose in this travel and visitation was to acquire information about, and ideas from the student activities work at other colleges, he was able to extend his vacation period to seven weeks of vacation, visitation, and work. During this time, he amazed, amused, and entertained summer students at colleges and universities all over, including the University of Texas, Iowa State University, the University of Nebraska, Oklahoma State, Kansas State, and four others, appearing as part of their “Entertainment” or “Artist Series.”

But he didn’t do it alone. Not on your floating lady! Every member of the family works (or plays) in this production. Each of the little Smiths participated in the performances directly assisting Dad in the delightful deception and working with Mom, making musical merriment. Whatever the assignment, every member of the group enjoyed (and was enjoyed) sharing in this family project which provided them a wonderful trip and an enjoyable experience.

This idea developed as a direct result of Smith’s speaking and entertaining at a meeting of college union directors last year at Wichita, Kansas. He received invitations from many colleges from Washington and California to Louisiana which he was not able to include in the trip and has already received several invitations to return to the ones which they visited.

“This,” Smith says, “is not just magic or entertainment. It fits into the kind of thing that I (and we) try to do to promote basic fellowship and the discovery of leisure time education.” He expressed the idea that “we must learn to use leisure time while in college in order to know how to use the much more leisure which confronts us after college. Leisure time education is education in the broad sense, but it is education, nevertheless.” This is the idea behind their entertainment and his work in the College Union here.

When asked of the possibility of our obtaining leisure education through the medium of their show, Smith replied jokingly, “We'd love to do it, and several have mentioned it to me, but nobody has yet offered to sponsor us!”

Smith, who has entertained in many areas of the U.S. and in twenty-seven foreign countries, now fills engagements all over this section of the country, finding time for this by “doing magic while other men play golf.” Concerning the possibility of another summer magic tour, Smith mentioned that “several campuses in New England have expressed an interest in our act, and we're exploring the possibilities of a one month tour there.”

A master magician, a family of fun, and a terrific trip.

An invitation to shape your own future...

General Telephone is the fastest-growing company in one of the highest-ranking growth industries—communications. Opportunities for personal growth within our organization are therefore exceptionally promising. General Telephone has tripled its size in the last 10 years—expects to double its size again in the next decade. Such expansion within an explosive industry necessitates an increasingly competent management team. For graduates ready to assume immediate responsibilities in return for the opportunity to groom themselves for management positions, General Telephone offers unusual opportunities for personal advancement... and invites you to explore the possibilities. Your Placement Director can supply you with a copy of our brochure outlining the management careers open to graduates majoring in Engineering, Mathematics, Physics, Business Administration, the Liberal Arts or the Social Sciences. Ask him for a copy of the brochure today.

GENERAL TELEPHONE America’s Largest Independent Telephone System