™ V.P.1. TRACK TEAM. HERE TUESDAY (See Page Three) “OPERATION ABOLITION” DRAWS COMMENTS (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1961

SPRING... and frolics

Davidson has made the transition from Shetland and lambs-wool to white pants and Madras; the robin no longer figures in
the heralding of spring. With flashing shades and cut-off khakis, Davidson awaits the climax: Spring Frolics.

This season also sees the Duke Dorm sun porches and the Belk Lawn sanitarium shift into action. The first promising
ray of sun prompts a wave of outdoorsmen to assume the relaxed prone position and await the metamorphosis. Dark glasses
and Jockey shorts are the minimum effective equipment.

It’s spring, and a Davidson Man’s fancy continues in the same biological vein. Only the atmosphere has turned. And a
variation on Sir Winston Churchill’s famous statement is applicable to Spring Frolics: “Never have so many done so much —
purely by instinct.” With London Fog jacket, cooler, and date, Davidson prepares to celebrate. Spring, the season of Bacchanal, is
here.

Ransom To Give Bell Award, Deliver Fine Arts Address
By KNOX ABERNETHY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

John Crowe Ransom, critic, poet, and teacher of creative writing, will visit Davidson this coming Thursday and Friday in connection
with the Fine Arts Festival and the Vereen Bell writing contest. Ransom is scheduled to speak in chapel on Thursday
to announce the winner of the Vereen Bell Award, as well as the contestants taking second and third places. Ransom
will have chosen these writings from the ten semi-finalist manuscripts sent to him. At this time he will also deliver
an address entitled “The Estate of Poetry.” That afternoon he will meet with Sigma Upsilon, and will eat supper at
the Sigma Nu fraternity house. At 8:15 Thursday night, Ransom will read some of his own verse, and will discuss
poetry for the Fine Arts Festival.

Ransom, presently a visiting professor at Ohio State University, is the author of several books of poetry and is recognized
for his editing of The Fugitive and The Kenyon Review as well as for a number of books and articles
which he has written. He is also recognized as a teacher of creative writing, his students including such names as
Allen Tate, Robert Penn Warren, Randolph Durell, Cleanth Brooks, and Robert Lowell.

Ransom received his BA degree from Vanderbilt University, where he was a member of Kappa Sigma and Phi Beta Kappa
fraternities. He then went to Christ College, Oxford, as a Rhodes Scholar. He served as professor of English at Vanderbilt
from 1914 to 1937, except for a teaching job at the Saumur Artillery School in France with the Army, from
1917 to 1919. In 1937 Ransom was made Carnegie Professor of Poetry at Kenyon College, where he served until his
retirement in 1958. Among the honors conferred on Ransom have been the appointment as a Guggenheim Fellow for creative writing
in 1931-32, the Bollingen Award in Poetry from Yale in 1951, and the Russell Loines Award in Literature from The
National Academy of Arts and Letters, also in 1951.

Fine Films Festival Is Union Success

David Simpson, Union Film chairman, reported this week that attendance for the Fine Films Festival has been “surprisingly good,” although
he doesn’t believe the audiences are coming entirely for the artistic qualities of the festival program. “Whether Davidson students recognize
it or not, these movies represent some of the best treatments of human nature yet attempted,” he commented.

The first night 450 people, “the largest crowd anyone can remember ever having come to the Morrison Room,” crowded into
the ballroom, more than paying for all the festival's costs. The average attendance since then has been about 300 per
night. Simpson hopes to run one foreign movie a month next year if there is enough interest in these films
for their real importance. He is also considering an experimental closed festival which will emphasize the artistic qualities of such
films.

Regarding the audiences’ reactions to recent showings of “The Naked Night,” Simpson said, “If they want sensationalism, let them go
to the Fox.” He commented that when they look for mere luridness the students not only fail to get anything
out of the movies, but their noise distracts from those trying to grasp the films’ real significance. The three remaining
offerings of the festival are “Potemkin,” “Rashomon,” and “Birth of a Nation.”

Panel Will Discuss Kennedy Policies

The proposed legislation in Kennedy's “New Frontier” will be the topic of discussion by a panel of Professors Ernest F.
Patterson, Max E. Polley, Daniel D. Rhodes, and Bradley D. Thompson in the Morrison Ballroom of the College Union Monday
night at 8 p.m. David Gilmour, chairman of the Union Roundtable Committee, will moderate the discussion. Gilmour said this week
that the discussion will center around student questions. Civil rights, Federal aid to education, and medical aid for the aged
will be included among the legislation discussed. The panel discussion will be followed by a coffee.

AT STATE PLAY FESTIVAL
Vagabonds Reap Honors

“We feel we've built up state-wide fame, or maybe infamy,” commented Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz, director of the Vagabonds, on
that group’s showing at the State Play Festival held at Chapel Hill last week. The Vagabonds sent three plays from
the regional competition at Charlotte and brought home a distinguished and an excellent rating. The Second Shepherd’s Play, the only
play at Chapel Hill to be repeatedly interrupted for applause, drew the most favorable criticism of the judges as well
as audience response, and was awarded the distinguished rating. Lottery was awarded an excellent, while a third play, The Dark
Lady of the Sonnets, failed to place.

“Any doubts as to training and experience were dispelled at Chapel Hill,” Dr. Goodykoontz remarked. The year’s program is tangible
evidence that drama could thrive at Davidson, in contrast to all predictions. Dr. Goodykoontz felt that this new prestige of
the dramatic arts has made a most significant contribution to a feeling of unity among the members of the college
family and the community. This feeling was underlined by the fact that one out of six Davidson students were in
some way associated with the group this year, while one out of ten actually acted.

Looking ahead to next year, Dr. Goodykoontz hoped that rigid organization and selectivity would not cut drama off from the
students and community.This, he said, was what killed off drama before. Most of all, he expressed the desire to see
the spirit of non-exclusive, spontaneous exuberance passed on. He feels certain that next year's efforts will be greatly aided by
the pool of experienced actors and staff, most of whom are freshmen.

"There's a nice new spot. He'll never find us here."

Missionaries Speculate On Congolese Adjustment
By DON SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Two former missionaries to the Congo visited campus this week. They told the Davidson student body that the language and
culture barriers which will isolate any Congolese student here will be the most difficult problems to surmount.

Mrs. David Miller, recently returned from the Congo while her husband stays on the field, spoke in assembly on Monday.
She sketched living conditions in the Congo under the Belgians, noting that “the educated are a minority in the Congo.”

STOPPED SHORT

“The Congolese student is on the line,” she said, “between the primitive conditions in the bush and the privileges of
the educated. The Belgians stopped a little too soon in bringing culture to the Congo. They imparted a materialistic society
but quit before the people were ready for independence.”

Mrs. Miller pointed out the tribal customs which surround the relationships between the sexes. “If the Congolese come to Davidson,
it will be up to you, the students, to teach them the relationship you have in dating and friendships,” she
said.

After assembly, at a coffee hour in the Morrison Room of the College Union, Mrs. Miller gave a fuller account
of the missionary activity in Congo. She urged Davidson students to “get a sense of destiny,” and to realize their
place in the world situation, “as Christians and as Americans.”

Later in the afternoon, Dr. Hoyt Miller, also a Presbyterian missionary in the Congo, now retired, spoke to a number
of students and to members of the Student Council. Dr. Miller seemed confident that many of the problems being foreseen
for the incoming Congolese will “work themselves out.” He told the group that “just being on the Davidson campus” would
be a tremendous experience for the students, and hoped that any off-campus trips could be planned in advance to prevent
incident.

Both speakers were arranged for by the Congolese Committee, a joint faculty-student-townspeople group which is investigating the various difficulties which
may arise when and if Congolese students arrive on campus.

THREE APPLICANTS

At its meeting last week, the committee learned from Professor B. D. Thompson that three Congolese have applied for admission
next fall, but the college is still waiting to see what kind of courses they will wish to take. The
applicants are 23 or 24 years old, and plan to arrive in the U.S. in time to take an intensive
course in English before going to college.

President D. Grier Martin has (Continued On Page Four)

Informal Weekend Attracts 800 Dates
By JIM WILLIAMS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

An influx of 800 girls into Belk and Richardson dorms throughout this afternoon marked the beginning of Spring Frolics Dance
Weekend. After the tennis match with Cincinnati this afternoon, activities for the weekend officially begin with the “D Club Foolies”
in Chambers auditorium.

WILD “FOOLIES”

Harold Bynum, president of the D Club, pleaded with THE DAVIDSONIAN to “warn the student body not to get upset
or leave their seats if the Foolies begin in an unusual way. It may be kinda wild, but it’s all
part of the act.” Bynum went on to report that the Foolies, which will begin at 7:00 p.m., are built
around a cafe scene. “We've not only got everyone in the D Club taking part, but we have a blues
singer, a comedian, dancers from Queens, and a Davidson combo, and a couple of skits we wrote up.” He explained
that students must show their dance tickets at the door to be admitted.

MIDNIGHTERS

Hank Ballard and the Midnighters will be playing for an informal dance in the gym from 8 to 12 p.m.
Their recent top-sellers include “The Twist,” “Finger Poppin’ Time,” “Let's Go, Let’s Go,” and “Deep Blue Sea.” Saturday night, the
Collegians from East Carolina featuring Betty Lane Evans, Miss North Carolina of 1958, will provide music for the informal dance
beginning at 8 p.m. With the completion of each night's dance, the festivities will continue in the form of many
fraternity informal after-parties.

Mansell Reveals Cabinet Members

YMCA president Frank Mansell today announced the new cabinet for this organization. The remaining officers are: Alec Morgan, Vice-President; Sam
Glasgow, Secretary; and Phil Burkes, Treasurer. Serving with the officers as members of the cabinet will be the chairmen of
the various committees. Jim Glenn heads the committee on Spiritual Life and Jamie Long is in charge of the International
Relations Committee. Bob Rea is chairman of the Deputations Committee, Joe McCutchen is the leader of the Publicity Committee. Bill
Denham heads the Forums Committee, and Spud Stewart is chairman of the Social Committee.

Third Alumni College Invites Grads’ Wives

The third annual Davidson Alumni College has been planned for June 1-3, college officials announced this week. For the first
time, alumni wives have also been invited to attend. They will join their husbands as students in specially designed “capsule”
courses at the liberal arts. Members of the college faculty will serve as professors.

Dr. Arthur E. Jensen, dean of the faculty at Dartmouth College, will deliver the keynote lecture and lead several follow-up
discussions. Dr. Jensen has been responsible for the “Great Issues” approach to education at Dartmouth. Courses will be available to
alumni in history, economics, psychology, religion, literature, space-age science, Bible, music, art, and mathematics. Each student will select three courses
from the curriculum offering of 16 subjects.

A general $25 fee for each “student” will cover all costs of tuition, meals, housing, and entertainment. Enrollment will be
limited to 100 applicants. All alumni college participants will room in Richardson Dorm. Accommodations will be arranged for couples and
singles. All classes will meet in the Dana Building.

The three-day session will begin with registration from 1 to 5 p.m. Thursday, June 1. Official opening exercises will be
held at a dinner that evening, followed by Dr. Jensen's keynote address. An all-college luncheon Saturday afternoon will officially conclude
the 1961 college. Many alumni will remain overnight. Special recreation activities and campus tours will be available late Saturday.
