Issue No. 1

June 8, 1961

HELP!

The College Union is looking for personable young men to fill the position of deskman. If you are interested in
serving at the Union at reasonable remuneration for your service, come to the Union desk at 3:30 p.m. today.

SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES

Bookstore:
THURSDAY, JUNE 8 ONLY
10:00 A.M. - NOON
2:00 P.M. - 4:00 P.M.
Thursday is the only day that the bookstore will be open on a regular schedule.

SNACK BAR:
Monday - Friday
11:30 A.M. - 1:30 P.M.
3:00 P.M. - 4:00 P.M.
8:30 P.M. - 9:30 P.M.
Saturday
9:30 A.M. - 11:30 A.M.
Sunday
7:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.

MARTIN AS ADVISER

Dr. J. G. Martin will be the faculty adviser to the Union staff this summer during the time that Mr.
Smith and his family are touring the west. Dr. Martin plans to sit in on the staff “idea sessions," and
the output of this group will, in a large part, reflect his thought.

Dr. Martin is class of '56, and received his doctorate at Princeton University. He returned to Davidson in the fall
of 1960 and has, since that time, guided many of us through the labyrinths of organic chemistry.

CHARLOTTE MUSIC THEATRE

The Union has become an authorized ticket agent for Ben Kapen's Charlotte Music Theatre. Tickets are on sale at the
desk now for such hits as WEST SIDE STORY, THE KING AND I. Contact the desk for info on special
student rates.

WELCOME DAVIDSON

As the heat and the students return to the campus for the summer session, the Union staff welcomes the students.
We are looking forward to the refreshing summer session and the opportunity to serve you in any way possible.

UNION HOURS: The Union building will be open this summer from 7 A.M. until 11 P.M. with various entertainments and
comforts for your edification. The comfortable chairs and sofas with the latest magazines at your side are but a part
of the invitation that the Union extends.

PAPERBACK SWAP-SHELF: It has been suggested that we set up a paperback swap-shelf for summer reading. As an initial contribution,
Dr. Staples has given his own prized copies of Golden Apples of the Sun by Ray Bradbury, Listen Yankee by
C. Wright Mills, and Kids Will Say the Darndest Things by Art Linkletter. If you have a stack of old
paperbacks, don't give them to the Salvation Army, give them to us! We will try to build up a collection
from your contributions this week and then get the shelf open for business.

TO SOOTHE THE HEART OF THE SAVAGE BEAST:

The music in the Union this summer is provided through the efforts of Paul Franson, our head deskman, who overhauled
the music system. We will be glad to receive your record requests at any time.

THE UNION STAFF: The Union Staff stands ready to welcome you, and to act on your suggestions to make this
a better summer at Davidson.

MOVIE - FRIDAY

Broken Arrow, a saga of the golden west, will be the first attraction at the Union in the summer series.
The show will start at 8:00 P.M. and will be led off by a Roadrunner cartoon.
