PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1961

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Goldiere
Pietenpol
Bernard
Holland
Puckett
Clark
Hopkins
Wheaton
Davidson
Lobanov
Woods
Embry
Logan
Workman
Fredericksen
Martin, D. G.

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Yes, the ROTC Department must have moved in about the middle of the thirties,” Tom Johnson, the college electrician was
saying. I was sitting somewhat uncomfortably on the rim of a trash barrel watching the repairs progress on the door
to 323 Belk and listening to the nostalgia of the maintenance department.

The old asbestos-clad, two-story building that sits under the new fire siren and behind Cannon and East dorms now houses
the maintenance department.

“After Chambers burned,” agreed Sidney Hunsucker, brushing the sawdust off his paint-smeared trousers. “And that’s what they called it, too:
the ‘Temporary Building’.”

HOUSED ROTC

And after stories of the careless students who would leave their coal bins unlocked in old Chambers, the thread of
history was taken up again. The ROTC, established in 1919, occupied the temporary building when the labs moved to the
newly completed south wing of Chambers.

“Yep,” Johnson reminisced with the authority of years, “the shop used to sit between the wings of Belk, out behind
the maintenance department. That’s where the ROTC used to keep their rifles, in the basement. Well, it was under that
tree, yeah, the ginkgo there. Some of the fellers used to climb up that tree and sleep on the roof
of the shop during lunch break.”

The shop and Georgia dormitory are no more, but the asbestos-sided wonder was preserved for posterity across a strip of
asbestos from the tall brick usurper, only yards from the college’s 28 janitors (as determined by Sidney, who started from
one and numbered them all), wove more history as he and Reid Gabe, 36 years at Davidson last Wednesday, questioned
each other's memories.

“The west wing was secured as a surplus warehouse after World War I. Cop Linker, no, they call him, what
is it... yes, Security Officer Linker and Smith will move from their little office to that little brick building beside
the laundry.”

Upstairs was storage mostly ranging from glass panes and rolls of chicken wire to a pair of chairs which at
least one year. This rate of increase will provide the desired number of volumes in about 15 years.

Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the library, revealed this week further details concerning the improvement of the library, which
was announced in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN as one of the salient features of Davidson College’s new 15-year plan.

Dr. Davidson stated that 150,000 volumes are needed for an ideal library for a school of about 1,000 students. At
present, the Davidson library contains approximately 85,000 - 90,000 volumes, and these are being increased at the rate of about
6,000 volumes a year. This rate of increase will provide the desired number of volumes in about 15 years.

These records will be kept to help the students, not to get at them. We have no ulterior purpose.

Martin's Secret Avocation

“It’s sort of an unusual avocation,” admitted President D. Grier Martin of Davidson College, when questioned about his private sport
of “frisbee throwing.”

The questioning centered around President Martin’s off-hours preoccupation with a flying-saucer-like plastic disk known as a “frisbee.” Gnawing curiosity about
the manifestations of violent activity in the Martins’ back yard led first to furtive spying through hedges, and finally, to
an open interview with the president.

“Last spring,” said Dr. Martin, “some of the boys developed an interest in frisbee throwing. They would play between Chambers
and my house, and I used to stop and watch them on my way home.”

Dr. Martin was asked if he would like to learn the art of frisbee throwing. He said he was willing,
and asked that Joe Robinson come over and give him a few lessons. “Joe was the champ of them all,”
he says. “He could throw it a mile.”

“A few days later, I was maneuvered into a game of throwing it.” However, he was greatly embarrassed because he
couldn’t sail it straight or catch it. “But one of the boys lent me one to practice with,” he says,
and he promptly got involved in another game. “This time,” he says, “I was asked if I would like to
have one. It developed that this person had them for sale, large ones for a dollar, and small ones for
75 cents. So I got a large one.”

Six Students Meet Miss Universe

(Continued From Page One)

“about the same job as a man, but they generally aren’t as efficient.”

The students seemed almost to forget Miss Universe as they tackled their first German breakfast in months: “Wurst, real wurst,
it’s delicious... and cheese, I suppose I miss Swiss cheese more than anything.”

Fraeulein Schmidt, who speaks only German and Russian and no English, went on to comment about the language barrier. “The
first time I made a T.V. commercial, I was supposed to pour some Royal Crown Cola into a glass and
say, ‘Royal Crown!’ I learned the lines carefully, but when I poured, I made a mistake and said, ‘Coca-Cola! Delicious!’”

“Actually, I like Coke best of all anyway,” she commented. From her interpreter came a friendly warning. “Ssh, Marlene, the
enemy may be listening!”

An old German man had pushed his way to her side for a picture. “If you’re ever in Charlotte again
and want to speak German, just call on me. Heh, heh.”

A well-furred and obviously thick-skinned Charlotte lady rushed breathlessly up to one of the Davidson boys. “You don’t mind taking
my husband’s picture with your camera, do you? I want a picture of him with Miss Universe.”

Two cooks had now left the buffet table and were taking home movies. “Everybody who wants to go to church
with Miss Universe, raise his hand please. Okay, report to the cars at the front of the hotel.”

The Miss Universe group, including the Davidsonians, were greeted at St. Mark’s Lutheran Church by the rector, who made a
long welcoming speech to a still smiling, but uncomprehending Marlene Schmidt. He ended with a bit of graduate reading exam
German, “Verstehen Sie?”

Heads turned as the group marched to the front of the church sanctuary. The rector rose, began the service in
the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost, and announced that the congregation was host to the
second most beautiful woman in the world.“Our wives; Martin his could make a killing pose, only a desire to help
the! and sweethearts are the most beautiful to us, of course. And remember,” he went on, “beauty has always been
associated with holiness: I Chronicles 16:29. ‘... worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness.’ We are happy to welcome
Miss Universe of 1961!”

“You'd never see that in a German church,” commented one of the exchange students. The group left Marlene Schmidt at
the reception following the service to return to Davidson. “She’s a nice girl, just a real nice girl.”

Tastee
HOT DOGS
HAMBURGERS
BARBECUE
CHEESEBURGER
CHUCK WAGON STEAK
SUN.
OLD CHARLOTTE HIGHWAY
CORNELIUS
SERVING
Freez
MILK SHAKE
SUNDAES
BANANA SPLITS
CONES
HOURS
MON. — SAT 10-10
SUN. 2-9

ODEN AFTER VESPERS

MORE SPACE NEEDED

The present library building, Davidson said, will “pack” this number of books, but more space will be needed to facilitate
the handling and shelving of books. Except for this need for more stack space about 12 years from now, Dr.
Davidson said that the present building is adequate. He added, however, that the reserve reading room should be enlarged, possibly
into the upper floor of the new wing, though this was built to hold the weight of bookstacks.

RARE BOOK ROOM

Concerning the rare book room, Dr. Davidson reports that when funds are available it will...

College Issues (Continued From Page One)

...age member devotes to the club.

ROSTER REQUIRED

Each organization is also asked to enclose with the questionnaire a copy of its constitution and by-laws, as well as
a roster with the names of the entire membership, which will be kept on file by the college for future
reference. Elaborating further on the college’s need for such information, particularly the annual rosters and evaluations, Dean Burts pointed out
that his office is often asked for the record of a student who graduated several years ago. As it is
now, the college has no way of knowing which students were actually active in which organizations during a given year,
nor are there any qualitative records on file as to what kind of year the particular group had. Also, as
Dean Burts said, this information will assist students...

...the same oblivion as the hula hoop in the near future, due to a paucity of supply rather than interest.
“I have a good many friends in Charlotte who have gotten interested in frisbee throwing, who try to buy them
and find one which I’ve used ever since.” It usually takes no trouble to organize some activity with a frisbee,
according to Dr. Martin, but he's had some difficulty lately. For one thing, Joe Robinson hasn’t been by to give
instruction in a long time. “I saw him just recently,” said Dr. Martin, “and asked him why he hadn’t been
by, and in explanation he stuck out his foot, which unfortunately was broken.” Hence the activity in the Martin back
yard. Lacking a frisbee mate, he’s forced to play with it himself, throwing it, picking it up, and throwing it
again. Occasionally he and one of his sons will do battle with it, throwing the frisbee straight at each other
at close range till one of them drops it. Refuting rumors that he had an official frisbee throwing outfit, Dr.
Martin said that he has played in all sorts of costumes, from business suits to shorts, depending on the circumstances.
However, he does wear golf shoes to avoid the occasional spills he took as a novice. “When you're running and
it suddenly floats down at you, it’s mighty easy to end up on your back,” he says. Frisbee throwing may
face...

...now, students improve the clubs.”

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

GREAT BETWEEN COURSES! Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, North Carolina
Copyright (c) 1961. THE COCA-COLA COMPANY. COCA-COLA AND COKE ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS.

Retake Schedule Set For Yearbook

Photographers will return to Davidson Nov. 8 to finish taking student pictures for the 1962 QUIPS AND CRANKS. The pictures
will be taken in the Green Room of the College Union. Men should wear white shirts and dark, conservative coats
and ties. The schedule below has been set up by fraternities, and all students are requested to follow it.

1:00-1:30 Independents and Sigma Nu
1:30-2:00 Phi Gamma Delta
2:00-2:30 Beta Theta Pi
2:30-3:00 Phi Delta Theta
3:00-3:30 Sigma Phi Epsilon and Sigma Chi
3:30-4:00 Pi Kappa Phi
4:00-4:30 Alpha Tau Omega
4:30-5:00 Kappa Alpha
5:00-5:30 Sigma Alpha Epsilon
5:30-6:00 Kappa Sigma

CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR

Subscribe Now at Half Price*
You can read this world-famous daily newspaper for the next six months for $5.50, just half the regular subscription rate.
Get top news coverage. Enjoy special features. Clip for reference work. Send your order today. Enclose check or money order.
Use coupon below.

The Christian Science Monitor
One Norway St., Boston 15, Mass.
Send your newspaper for the time checked.
6 months $5.50 (1 year $11)
College Student
Faculty Member
Name
Address
City
Zone
State

This special offer available ONLY to college students, faculty members, and college libraries.

Concord where an aerial photograph pictures it in the 1924 Quips and Cranks...

LLOYD HONEYCUTT, of the college’s shop crew, adds a few expert strokes to one of the many items turned out
in the old work building.

Why the gold bars? Future You: our Future You: our Future You: from Phi Hall when it was restored. There
were signs proclaiming “NO TRESPASSING” and “Huntersville Lion’s Club Meets Thursday.” Back downstairs Gabe and Sydney were debating the chain
of command of the college employees. The conversation was long past the question and answer stage by now, but closing
time was coming around, so I excused myself and thanked everyone for his memory and time. Back in my room
beneath the spreading gingko tree, I checked the catalogue for information on the building that it refers to simply as
the shop.

CATALOGUE INFORMATION

But I got no further than the paragraph containing the following sentence: “The newer buildings, thoroughly modern throughout, preserve the
tie with tradition by an adherence in their exteriors to Classical Revival forms.” So the squat little building that’s older
than Chambers or any of the existing dorms challenges not only its predestination to be “temporary,” but also the great
and hoary tradition of Davidson exteriors.

You're needed... just as your father and grandfather were. It’s an obligation that a lot of qualified college men have
to meet. If we don’t...

All right. But what can I do for the Air Force?

The Air Force needs college-trained men and women as officers. This is caused by the rapidly advancing technology that goes
with hypersonic air and space flight. Your four years of college have equipped you to handle complex jobs.

Say I was interested... how can I get to be an officer?

You know about Air Force ROTC and the Air Force Academy. Then there’s the navigator training program. You've probably heard
about Officer Training School... where the Air Force takes certain college graduates, both men and women, and commissions them after
three months of training.

Starting salary is important. What about that?

Add it up. Base pay, tax-free allowances, free medical and dental care, retirement provision, perhaps flight pay. You don’t have
to be an econ major to see it adds up to an attractive package.

I’ve been thinking about getting my Master's.

As an officer you can apply for the Air Force Institute of Technology. At no cost, and while on active
duty, some officers may even win their Ph.D. degrees.

That's the job of your local Air Force Recruiter. Or write to Officer Career Information, Dept. SC110, Box 7608, Washington
4, D.C.

I want further information about the Air Force Officer Training School and navigator programs.

There’s a place for professional achievement in the U.S. Air Force.
