Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE THREE FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1961
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

An Honor System In Despair

The remainder of this page is ample evidence that the Honor System and regulations at Davidson College are sorely in
need of clarification, coordination, and revision. Even a cursory glance at the letters to the editor shows that students have
widely conflicting conceptions of the system and how it works, the Honor Court, and its procedures. The Honor Court chairman
himself admits on this page that the court is forced under the present situation to contradict the letter of the
law in order to remain true to the spirit of the law.

These two matters are not something to be passed off casually. The Davidson Honor System and Student Body Regulations face
a more serious problem than most students or faculty realize. The rules in many cases are vague, often meaningless. Obstacles
confront the court in attempts to promote and enforce a true spirit of honor. The limits of its jurisdiction and
the application of the rules are matters of varying opinions.

Davidson students have contributed their part to the overall weakening of the system. True, it may work better than the
one at Carolina or W. & L. or wherever, but the fact cannot be escaped that the situation here is
far from ideal. Students will steal a towel or other P.E. equipment from a classmate in the locker room without
a second thought—though they might never steal at the dorms. Students will “casually” discuss ROTC writs or hint to friends
what items to study—though they might never cheat on the hill. Students will sign their names to misstatements of facts
on official forms or lab cards—though they might never lie under oath.

We cannot rationalize these distinctions which have become so prevalent here. The Honor System should be just what its name
implies. Its interpretation was never meant to be restricted to the “letter,” rather than the “spirit,” of the law. We
wholeheartedly endorse and support the 1961 Court in its efforts to break this fetter and others that bind it. It
should and does have powers of interpretation which are well established by precedent and statement of purpose when formed. Yet,
as Harrison Wellford points out in this issue, the hands of the court are still bound unwillingly by the arbitrary
dismissal rule. Though all the above illustrations are honor offenses, all do not merit so drastic a punishment. Thus, the
court, in fairness to the defendant, contradicts itself by trying him under student regulations, not the Honor System.

We realize that the present rule should be brought to bear in many cases involving the three honor offenses specified:
stealing, lying under oath, and cheating. Yet in a system of honor, administered by a court of honor, there is
no need for such binding restrictions in all cases. Leeway must be provided within the Honor System for other violations
of basic dishonesty meriting varying degrees of punishment and cases of unusual extenuating circumstances. Students and the court have every
right to request a thorough study and overhaul of the present system.

The Executive Committee has already been approached on several more technical, but still highly important, areas of confusion and contradiction.
We hope they will respond to the plea for clarity in matters like the following:

What is the definition of gambling, which calls for possible suspension in student body rules and ordinarily dismissal in faculty
rules? Is the campus defined as the town limits or the area bounded by Concord and Main? If the former,
how does the possession or drinking of alcoholic beverages apply to students not living in dorms, or those who pass
through Davidson with alcohol in their possession, though they never stop? Should fraternity officers still be required to sign a
pledge (official document) following each dance weekend that he has not seen any drinking or effects of drinking on the
campus, when the student body has divested itself of responsibility as regards under the influence? What is more, how closely
does the college interpret its rule on alcohol connected with off-campus events and how willing is it to enforce this
rule?

We ask each of you to read the Honor System and Student Body Regulations as they appear on page 5
of this issue. Then read the faculty rules of student conduct found in the Wildcat Handbook. Finally, ask any three
persons on campus their conception of the system and the court's job—most likely you'll get three answers, just as four
views are found in the four letters this week. No more need be said—you understand the problem. Our current program
of education must be extended to a campus-wide evaluation, to be followed by positive action. The present situation, unchanged, will
only continue to breed hypocrisy, injustice, and misunderstanding.

The ASC's Offer

A controversy of sorts was stirred up by our editorial of last week on academic scheduling and the ever-present exam
problem. We apologize for a typographical error (see elsewhere on this page) which may have confused some. But most of
all we apologize for committing a newspaperman’s worst fault: failing to check the veracity of information he receives. We were
told that we had been on a six-day first semester exam schedule for the past three years. Without even trying
to recall, we assumed this information was correct. Reader Carrell caught us, and sure enough—we have had eight-day exam periods
for at least the past four years, information from the Academic Scheduling Committee notwithstanding.

There has also been some confusion over the meaning of the term “eight-day schedule.” This merely means that exams are
given on a total of eight days during the period; usually a Sunday breaks up the pattern. We are still
in favor of a shorter exam schedule. This semester is a golden opportunity to try out a new and potentially
good system. It also still seems obvious that a permanent exam schedule, set up with careful study, would solve many
problems.

This week President Martin announced that the Student Council has the power to select a student to offer suggestions on
the planning of next year’s calendar. We are glad that an effort is being made to hear student opinion. (See
story on page one.) However, we are appalled at the number of reservations and limitations put upon this student voice.
What does the Academic Scheduling Committee discuss that tender student ears cannot hear, and must be labeled confidential? And why
all this cloak-and-dagger secrecy to keep any hints of the committee’s deliberation from the prying eyes of DAVIDSONIAN staff members?
Must we, too, be kept in the dark concerning what purports to be important discussion?

We do not think a student needs to vote, but he needs to be able to discuss freely and to
be in on the fruition of final plans. If there is to be student representation, let him be given a
fair and equal chance to represent. In the light of the controversy and confusion over exams and over the entire
school calendar, we would like to propose that the Academic Scheduling Committee take a poll of student body opinion, and
of faculty opinion, on certain specific questions: Does the faculty/student body favor a shorter exam schedule? A later return date
in September? A full week’s vacation before Christmas? An early commencement? By finding out the answers to these perennial questions
we might see a new approach or get a fresh idea on a tired problem.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF David Jordan
BUSINESS MANAGER Gene Adcock
Associate Editors Lee Kirby, Don Saunders
Managing Editors John A. Carson, Mac Plaxton
Sports Editor Steve Clark
Assignments Editor Bill Hagen
Feature Editor Rick von Unwerth
Photographer Joe McCutcheon
Cartoonists Doug Ackerman, Joe Howell
Advertising Manager Ed Willer
Circulation Manager Bob Llewellyn
Assistant Bus. Manager Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

By HARRISON WELLFORD
Honor Court Chairman

In this second article of a series devoted to honor education and a definition of the Honor System, I would
like to discuss the dismissal rule. The fact that there is only one punishment possible for a student found guilty
of an honor offense, dismissal from college, has forced the Honor Court, on occasion, to act in a contradictory manner.

Let me illustrate. Some time ago a student was turned into the Honor Court for cheating in a laboratory experiment.
It turned out that the student,To make the most just decision and in order to follow the line of action
in keeping with the essential spirit of the Honor System, Howell, without going through the required experimental procedure, had adjusted
the figures in his experiment so that it showed the desired results.

EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCES
The fact that a student convicted under the Honor System is punished by dismissal from college, no matter how blameworthy,
weakens the ideal of a system of honor run on the basis of basic right and wrong. If the compulsory
dismissal rule remains unmodified, the court will feel very hesitant to bring other cases under the Honor System which are
not included in the representative rules mentioned in the Constitution and which have not been emphasized as thoroughly as lying,
cheating, and stealing.

MUST DEAL FIRMLY
Honor Court investigation turned up several extenuating circumstances that acted in the student's favor. The fact that a student was
pledged to go through all required procedures before recording his results had not been made sufficiently clear; laboratory conditions were
primitive to a degree that accurate results were inordinately difficult to obtain; and it had become almost general practice among
students in this lab to “fudge” to achieve any correct results. Under these conditions, the Honor Court did not feel
that it was in keeping with the real purpose of the Honor System to try this case where the only
possible punishment was dismissal.

The Honor Court, in order to uphold the Honor System, must and will deal firmly with any act which involves
basic dishonesty regardless of the specific form which it may take. In order to make the penalty most justly fit
the crime, the court may be compelled to try some of these cases under Student Body Regulations where there are
degrees of punishment rather than under the Honor System where perhaps they belong technically. Therefore, the Honor Court tried the
case under Student Body Regulations where degrees of punishment are possible. Technically the Honor System had been broken, yet the
court was forced to act in contradiction to the dictates of technicality in order to render the most humane, just
decision and keep the spirit of the Honor System.

There is no easy solution for this problem. If the compulsory dismissal rule is modified, some observers, lacking confidence in
a student court's ability to dismiss a fellow student if not compelled to do so, feel that modification would weaken
the system.

NO DEGREES
The Honor System, as it now stands, rests on the doctrine that there are no degrees of guilt in an
offense involving the idea of honor which the Honor System seeks to uphold. If a man acts dishonorably and breaks
an honor rule, there is no degree to which he has committed this breach of conduct, as there is a
degree to which a man may engage in ungentlemanly conduct. Yet, if there are no degrees of guilt in honor
offenses, there are degrees of culpability, as the extenuating circumstances described in the case above should attest.

In the meantime, the court will endeavor, as it always has, to treat each case individually, to consider all circumstances
involved, and to render humane and just decisions in keeping with the spirit and purpose of the Honor System.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Honor Court: 4 Letters And 4 Views
At the time when he wrote his letter, Papra had most likely been under the effect of the Honor System
for about a week and a half. Is this long enough to fully understand the workings of the honor system
and to fully feel its effect? In my opinion, a freshman has little right to start criticizing Davidson institutions as
soon as he hits the campus for the first time. There is nothing wrong with criticism, but I feel that
before one criticizes, he should understand what he is criticizing.

Bill Wallace

Dear Editor:
Upon reading page 2 of the September 22 edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN, I was filled with various emotions. I was
confused when I read the editorial concerning exam schedules. This editorial refers to a six-day first semester exam period of
the past few years and mentions that this year two days have been restored to the six, making an eight-day
schedule. I want to point out that the first semester exams of 1960 started on a Wednesday and ended on
Thursday of the following week. During the January exams of 1961, we again had a nine-day period. Exams started on
a Wednesday and ended on the following Thursday. This coming January, the exams begin on a Monday and end on
Tuesday of the following week. I am confused as to when the six days were in effect. I believe that
the editorial was ambiguous and also erroneous.

Next, I was upset after reading Jan Papra’s letter. I do not have the space to elaborate completely but I
will say that Freshman Jan Papra should be commended for his valor (though wasted) in attacking a system medieval in
character and against everything every one of us has been taught that Christianity stands for. Although his ideas very probably
will soon be forgotten, he still has given us something over which every reasonable man should bestir his madras mind.
We wish to express our views on these subjects from the point of view of two who have witnessed the
operation of the present system for more than a year. Mr. Papra’s ideas can be classified under these headings: his
attack on the operation of the Honor Court, his attack on the effectiveness and purpose of the Honor System at
Davidson College, and his proposed changes in both the Court and the system.

Sweeping changes are indeed needed in this archaic system that works not so much on the concept of honor, but
on that of fear. The present system, with its refusal to recognize the existence of extenuating circumstances, and its rendering
of only one sentence (on the assumption that one bad apple will spoil the entire perfect bunch) is far too
severe. Freshman Papra’s suggestions, on the other hand, are too lenient if the system is to work at all. But
somewhere in between the two extremes must lie a fair and just solution.

The Honor Court should set up a committee to study modifications in the system, or, should this not occur, the
student body should vote to remove the system as it now stands. Those of us with any sense of justice
and compassion cannot with clear conscience pass off Papra’s suggestions as the mere prattlings of an uninitiated freshman.

Further, Mr. Papra stated that the Court has no right to interpret the “spirit of the laws.” We agree. The
laws are clearly stated and their “spirit” needs no interpretation. The Court enforces rather than interprets these laws. We might
also point out that the Court works entirely within the laws of the Honor System and does not have “unlimited
authority.”

Stuart Jamison

Stockard, Poston

In his attack on the Honor System and the Honor Court in the September 22 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Mr.
Papra referred to the Honor Court as being “merciless” and as using “cruelty” and “blindness” in its procedures. As we
read this article, we realized that Mr. Papra had misunderstood both the operation of the Honor Court and the idea
of honor which the Honor System seeks to uphold.

Mr. Papra says that the system is based on fear. This is untrue. The System is based upon honor, for
only upon such a basis does the System have any meaning.

(Continued On Page Six)

A TYPOGRAPHICAL ERROR appeared in last week's DAVIDSONIAN editorial column which, we feel, damaged the meaning of “The Scheduling Committee
Can Still Redeem itself.” In asking to reduce the first semester examination schedule to six days, we meant to “add
the two extra days to the semester break. Students would still have time to prepare for exams, since classes will
end on a Saturday and exams will begin on a Monday.”
