Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO . FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

The Poor Man's Princeton

Resourceful John Horton’s persistent press agentry has paid off in the past few weeks with a bonanza of favorable publicity for Davidson College. In the same week that Dean Rusk, who calls Davidson “the poor man’s Princeton," eclipsed Woodrow Wilson as The Most Famous Davidsonian (as we all know, the President quit us after a year), Henry Shue became our 138th Rhodes Scholar. But even before that, The Charlotte News ran an effusive full-page feature with pictures on Davidson College. And a lady reporter from The Charlotte Observer came over and was enthralled by Dr. W. O. Puckett to the tune of a very flattering story on page one, second section. It seemed as if Davidson had indeed found its place in the sun—at least in the Charlotte papers.

All this fanfare was fine, but just one little item stuck in our craw: It was in the big News feature, hundreds of copies of which are stored in the basement of Chambers building waiting to be handed out to prospective donors to the Living Endowment. The item was this: “Young professors, who love to teach and who are paid well, are in the classrooms. New techniques and ideas are constantly being implemented by a faculty 95 percent of which takes a dynamic interest in the entire curriculum.”

We wonder if the young reporter who wrote this knew exactly how many of Davidson’s professors can be considered “young.” We wonder upon what basis he computed his percentages. We suggest that if he’s going to lie with statistics he should at least do it subtly. We wonder if he knew that most of the English majors in the Senior Class have, for fairly obvious reasons, never taken a course in Shakespeare. The course is only offered every other year anyway, and most of them get their Shakespeare on their own or do without (it is known that some experts consider Shakespeare to be a fairly important contributor to English literature). We wonder if he knew that Davidson still has six 1-man departments. We imagine someone told him about the extravagant, elaborate roll-away stage that is to be installed in the new fine arts building, but did anyone tell him that Davidson does not employ a professor of drama? Do you suppose he knew that 40 percent of Davidson's professors are Davidson graduates? Did he know that Davidson pays an economics professor to teach who claims that he has never read a word of Karl Marx and never intends to? And how about that oath professors have to take before they can teach here? How many fine instructors do you suppose that thing has driven off?

There is room for vast improvement. Davidson College need not be satisfied with a few fine departments, such as math, chemistry, and the pre-med program. We would like to see Davidson embark upon a 10-year crash program to beef up its faculty. This project would be similar to the highly successful 10-year building program just completed. We would like to see a sweeping evaluation made, department by department, of our teaching personnel. Professorial dead weight should be hauled out of weak departments and replaced by men who really do take a “dynamic interest.” We would like to see Davidson become more choosy in its hiring and tougher in its firing. We realize that tenure regulations prevent the firing of some professors merely because they are poor professors. But we would suggest that moral suasion be used a little more liberally. Some men, to put it bluntly, cannot be kicked out, but should be urged to find employment at some other institution. Davidson may indeed be the poor man’s Princeton. But why be satisfied with second best?

Coffee And Talk

The math department’s brand new “Coffee and Talk” sessions are one of the longest strides forward toward more profitable faculty-student relationships made recently. Coffee and Talk works this way: Math majors, students taking some math course, and even students not associated with the department are invited to an open house at the Faculty Club on old fraternity row on the second Wednesday afternoon of each month. For an hour, the participants shoot the bull and drink coffee with members of the department. During the next hour, an informative program is presented that strikes at a level which would interest both the math major taking advanced courses and the freshmen taking a basic course.

Dr. W. G. McGavock says that the idea has worked extremely well so far. Incomplete returns from a questionnaire sent to participants indicate that they think Coffee and Talk is well worth continuing. We don’t see why it wouldn’t work in other departments as well. The student seldom has a chance to meet with professors and fellow majors in a department as a group. Several departments, particularly the languages, have honorary clubs or fraternities, but these are not open house affairs. The Business-Economics Association is about the closest thing to Coffee and Talk but membership is still by invitation and dues are charged. We feel that the mathematicians have the right idea. It might be worth looking into.

In The Davidson Tradition

When it comes time to boast about the excellence of its graduates, Davidson College need not be modest. This was proved again with the announcement that Davidson student Henry Grayson Shue was one of four undergraduates picked as Rhodes Scholars by the Southern Committee of Selections. Rhodes Scholarships are among the most widely sought-after graduate study grants in the United States. They provide two years of advanced study at England’s famed Oxford University. Since 1903, 13 Davidson graduates have been recipients of these scholarships. Seven of these were granted since 1950, ranking Davidson among the top ten American liberal arts colleges in the percentage of its graduates who have won Rhodes Scholarships.

And the record does not end there. In 1959, for example, Davidson ranked ninth in the nation in its percentage of Danforth Scholarship winners, fourth in Rockefeller Brothers Scholarships, and third in Southern Teaching Fellowships. The Davidson Army ROTC unit that year placed fourth among 210 Army ROTC units in the country based on the records made by graduates in Army service schools. Davidson also ranks among the top 80 colleges and universities in America in the percentage of its graduates listed in Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities. More than half of Davidson's students undertake postgraduate studies. Davidson's athletic teams may not be among the Top Ten every season, but its scholars generally are. And of the two, we'd say the latter are by far the more important.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Tom Colvin

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ervin Duggan

Managing Editors
Bob Moore
David Jordan
Don Saunders
Russ Showalter
Bill Godwin

Associate Editors
B. Millner
Charlie Rowe

Sports Editor
Leonard Richardson

Feature Editor
Gene Wells

Photographers
Jerry Abernathy

Advertising Manager
Olin Nisbet

Circulation Manager
Butler Bennett

Assistant Bus. Manager
Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Needed: Another 10-Year Plan

Shue: Rhodes Interview "Extraordinarily Informal"

By KNOX ABERNETHY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

FOCUS: (Kennedy's Daiquiris: Let's Keep ‘Em A Secret

By ERVIN DUGGAN

When will it all stop?

In Palm Beach on Christmas Day, Pierre Salinger reported—with a straight face—that Caroline Kennedy received a toy dog which delivers eight messages at the pull of a string. “I can’t remember all the messages,” Salinger said, as pencils scribbled and typewriters clacked. “I’ll leave them to your imagination. But one of them was ‘I'm tired.’”

Well, so am I.

I'm tired of the slush which is being dispensed by the journalists crowded around the Kennedy keyhole. We have read what Mrs. Kennedy said upon the solemn occasion of her son’s christening: “Look at those eyes, Jack.” We have been subjected to endless reference to Mrs. Kennedy's Caesarian section, which Lord knows, is a topic for her medical history but not for the front page. The CHARLOTTE OBSERVER has observed cooingly that we now have—and this was in an editorial—“a pin-up president.” Just what we need.

This week, LOOK magazine tells us that John Fitzgerald Kennedy takes four showers a day, cleans his glasses with his shirttail, drives like the devil and curses like a sailor. The above tidbits appeared in a feature spread entitled, “What You Don’t Know About Kennedy.” The article adds that the president-elect drinks milk, beer and daiquiris, bears grudges, doesn't enjoy mobs, doesn’t carry cash... and... is seldom on time.

What we don’t know about Kennedy is precisely what we don’t need to know and probably shouldn't. Female gusher Betty Beale speculates breathlessly upon whether the new first lady will change her hairstyle. And Miss Beale devoted one day’s column (again in The CHARLOTTE OBSERVER) to a consideration of whether Mrs. Kennedywill hang her “modern art treasures” on the White House walls. The first round of interviews was conducted on the state level the Tuesday and Wednesday before Christmas vacation. Eight men were chosen from all the applicants, who had each submitted a 1,000-word “intellectual autobiography” and provided eight references. Tuesday night the students and committee members held informal discussions. Wednesday, each of the eight applicants was interviewed by the committee, which was made up of past Rhodes scholars with a non-Rhodes scholar as chairman. Shue said the first question asked was why he depledged from his fraternity. After a discussion of this, he was asked about his involvement with the Westminster Fellowship and the Church session over the panel on the sit-ins last year. This in turn led into a discussion of the responsibility of the individual Christian to society, as opposed to the Church’s responsibility as an institution.

“That was a topic I thought I'd butchered,” commented Shue. “They really twisted me around on that one.” Later in the day, Shue and two other students were called back for a second half-hour interview. The second interview was opened with the question, “Do you think the U.S. should recognize Red China?” Shue supported the position that we should. He was then asked who he thought was the greatest leader in Western Civilization. He said he stared at the floor for a while and then was given the alternative of listing what he considered to be the qualities a great leader should have. The committee then asked him which American president he thought best embodied these qualities, and Shue chose Woodrow Wilson. A committee member then proceeded to demonstrate that Thomas Jefferson fitted them better than Wilson, and Shue said he had to admit later to the man that he had made the wrong choice.

That night the state winners were announced by the committee at a special dinner. The final competition was held in Atlanta, where 12 candidates, two from each Southern state, were interviewed. Shue described the atmosphere of the final interviews as “extraordinarily relaxed, informal, friendly, and sympathetic.” The questioning was aggressive, but there was no hostile cross-examination. “They seem to have a real knack for making you show yourself,” he commented.

The interview was begun by an appointed questioner who inquired about a phrase Shue had used in his autobiography, “The fear of uncertainty.” This led into a philosophical and religious discussion, which was pretty much what Shue had hoped for. They went off onto such topics as the truth of the Christian faith, the definition of sin, the Suffering Servant, and even the difference between First and Second Isaiah. They wanted to know whether Shue thought St. Thomas Aquinas or Sigmund Freud had had a greater impact on Western Civilization. There were also questions on political philosophy and the Greek philosophers’ concept of democracy.

After this interviewing period came what Shue called the worst part of the whole process—waiting for the committee's decision. Immediately after making the decision, the committee announced the results. A Saturday night dinner then ended the competition. In conclusion, Shue said that they seem to be interested not in sheer brilliance, but rather in whether you know enough to hold an opinion and are willing to withdraw when your position is proven untenable. Athletics, he said, seem to be the least important of the qualities sought for, although athletic attainment is definitely an asset. Shue reported that Dr. Cummings’ urging had been the deciding factor in his decision to apply for the scholarship, although he was the only applicant from Davidson this year.

What if Khrushchev offers him a daiquiri? Mr. Salinger, I protest.

NOSMO KING REPORTS...

Peons, ROTC Studied By Amateur Pollster

This is the first in a series of spasmodic reports on the contemporary Davidson scene by Nosmo King, Davidson student and amateur pollster. Although primarily interested in predicting future movements and trends, Nosmo will endeavor also to present current trends which might otherwise escape notice.

* * * *

... Biggest thing of the season ahead will be a move by a violent group of warmongers to overthrow and destroy the pacifist elements of the Peon Army. Attempting to present an organization dedicated to the annihilation of the ROTC with appeal to every campus faction, the new group will inaugurate a series of tactical maneuvers led by a Gestapo with Honor Court members serving in an advisory capacity, a Benedict Arnold Honor Guard for turncoats among the mercenaries already involved in Advanced ROTC, and a “light cavalry” for members of the Westminster Fellowship.

... I predict the new leaders will meet with little opposition. Pacifists will fall like flies (an animal familiar to the Davidson campus.)

* * * *

... Spring Frolics sponsor for the group will be Ethel Rosenberg.

* * * *

... Not to be outdone by the Peon Army, the College ROTC, Davidson College, Davidson, NC, is planning a bloodless revolution for the beginning of the second semester. I predict it will be handled with little difficulty.

* * * *

... Plans for next year’s YMCA Gift Fund Drive are underway. Projects under consideration include 1) a machine to measure alcohol content in the blood for the Dean’s office, 2) a lie detector for the College Infirmary, and 3) a giant fly swatter for the Admissions Office. Also under consideration is a move to put Hattie’s on wheels so it can be rolled from county to county.

* * * *

... Right after Dean Rusk made it, a letter was sent to President-elect Kennedy from Davidson supporting Nurse Sara Johnson of the College Infirmary for Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare. Mentioned for Secretary of the Army was Col. W. Dabney Stuart (Davidson ROTC Retired).

... One real possibility is H. Edmunds White as Director of the United States Immigration Service.

... Dr. Goodykoontz was mentioned as an effective House Minority Leader.

* * * *

... Look for changes in chapel conduct around the middle of March. Reactionary forces in the sophomore class will push for a return to former times. An effort is being made to secure Dr. Monaghan, noted speaker of the 1958-59 Haig & Haig Lecture Series, for an address.

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

Ricks Lands Legislature For Mature Discussion

Dear Editor,

This letter is being written to inform the Student Body about the activity of the Davidson delegation at the State Student Legislature held in the Capitol Building at Raleigh, December 8-10. Our delegation (one of 27 from different colleges and universities in North Carolina) introduced an amendment to the SSL Constitution concerning elections procedure which easily passed.

BILL PRESENTED

We also presented a bill providing for the setup of a committee to study the tremendous problem of converting the U.S. economy from the present defense-spending basis to a post-disarmament basis in case disarmament should be carried out. Our arguments were: One third of our nation’s economic activity and one-tenth of our labor force are now involved. President-elect Kennedy said in March 1960 that “the entire government staff currently engaged in disarmament research consists of fewer than 100 full-time men, scattered through four or five agencies with little or no coordination.” We saw disarmament as the major problem of our time. After Davidson's speakers presented other facts concerning the problem, the combined Senate and House of Representatives passed our bill with unanimous consent.

VALUE

We Davidson delegates felt that we derived these worthwhile values from the Legislature: practical knowledge of parliamentary procedure, mature discussion with campus leaders in the state, and a better understanding of the intricate processes of state legislation. We also developed superiority complexes, because the pages treated us with the respect due regular legislators by waiting on us at all times during the session. We feel that the money and time spent on this project were well worthwhile and hope that Davidson will continue to show an interest in this state forum of student thought.

John Ricks

IT'S HARD ON A LITTLE KID WHO HAS ALWAYS DEPENDED ON A BLANKET SUDDENLY TO BE DEPRIVED OF IT...