Che DAVIDSONIAN
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1961
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

The Forgotten Man

“No fraternity man has ever gone inactive to get more social life.” Sam Pope’s canny observation regarding the social limitations
of being a non-fraternity man points up an obvious fact which is generally ignored: The Independent is Davidson’s forgotten man.

In 1957 almost a half-million dollars were spent to improve facilities for Davidson’s “showcase” fraternity system. Now, fraternity men enjoy
plush facilities and the services of housemothers. Not so with the independents. From day to day they must file through
a cafeteria line for their meals, they endure the lack of any private leisure-time facility, for they have only the
College Union, a public building scarcely noted for home-like warmth.

The independents are handicapped and inconvenienced — whether or not they are independent by choice — merely because they do
not belong; they are not members of Davidson's eighty-five percent majority, which, like all majorities, is privileged, powerful, complacent, and
self-centered.

Consider the plight of the independent on a dance weekend, which, incidentally, he has no part in planning. If he
dates, he must subject his date to the cafeteria line and the hash-house atmosphere of the union snack-bar. He has
no place to go during dance intermissions — except to the union again. And after the dance, he has no
place to go — except to the union again, to watch an outdated movie and attend a limp, tea-and-crumpets party.

All this, perhaps, would not be so bad if most independents chose their own lot and planned their social life
— or their lack of it. But they do not. Many are shunted into independence by the arbitrary cruelty of
Rush Week: they accept grudgingly the bitter pill of an “independence” which means second-rate facilities, second-rate social life, a second-rate
role in the life of the college.

The problem, of course, might be eased by an independent organization like the now-defunct Campus Club. But organization is difficult
for the independents, who often are bound not by friendship or common interests but by the negative bond of not
belonging; many, in addition, oppose an organization which almost surely would become another fraternity, practicing the exclusiveness which independents oppose
in principle.

THE DAVIDSONIAN enthusiastically endorses some other suggestions: A partial solution which all would welcome is a better facility for the
independent: surroundings convenient and attractive enough to make it no sacrifice to be a non-fraternity man. The college, which heretofore
has shown little feeling of responsibility toward the independents, could take a giant step by providing a suitable independent “house.”

Independents should be given a vital role in planning campus-wide social events. It is not fair for the fraternity system
to be in complete charge of Davidson’s social life. We note with interest Roger Durham's suggestion that social planning be
made a student body responsibility and that only fraternity activities be in the charge of the fraternity system.

Davidson’s smaller fraternities, doubtless, would welcome the opportunity to sponsor joint after-dance parties with the independent group; joint parties would
relieve small-fraternity financial problems and provide after-dance enjoyment for independents.

We urge the faculty committee on social life — which seems to concentrate almost exclusively on fraternity problems — to
take this problem under consideration. We encourage the Student Council, the Interfraternity Council, and the independents themselves to begin some
creative consideration of the difficulties of non-fraternity men. And we hope the administration will consider providing better facilities for the
independents. Davidson’s independents should be participants in Davidson's social system — and no longer victims of it.

E.S.D.

The Walkie-Talkie System

One of Davidson’s most powerful and respected student organizations may be withering on the vine. Unless some revitalizing joy juice
is pumped into strategic spots, the Interfraternity Council may lose its considerable prestige.

The IFC this year has done little more than make plans for dance weekends and concerts. It seriously endangered the
fraternity system last fall when its feeble efforts to solve the sophomore rush problem became little more than a wry
joke in faculty circles. It has gone out of its way to do nothing, particularly when doing nothing was the
easiest way of doing things.

Recently the council members were asked to help out with the Easter Seal drive. The major part of the discussion
on the request was devoted to what sort of excuse they could make up to get themselves out of it.
It was a decision to do nothing.

The IFC is a case in mediocre leadership. The group is composed of seniors who aren’t willing to stick their
necks out, and juniors who are trying only to please the seniors. IFC members are called representatives but are actually
little more than walkie-talkies. Herein lies the problem.

The IFC legislates by referendum. Every time a new issue comes up, the representatives refer it to the fraternity meeting
“to see what the boys down at the house think about it.” Since the boys down at the house are
generally not especially well informed on the issues, the problem gets pretty garbled in the process. Perhaps what the IFC
needs most is an intercom system between fraternity court and the Blue Room of the College Union.

During the Sophomore Rush mess the walkie-talkie system malfunctioned, came close to wiping out two or three fraternities, exasperated those
faculty members who were trying to help, and generally confused the issue. What happened was, a proposal about how to
solve the problem was sent to the IFC by one of the IFC members. The IFC sent it to the
fraternities, who sent it back. The IFC revised the proposal and sent it back to the fraternities. Again it was
rejected. Then someone thought of the pledge class presidents, who, having been at Davidson for two months, knew all about
the problems facing the fraternities. The IFC asked them to write something and they did. Rapidly running out of people
to send things to, the IFC decided to present the whole pile of proposals, revised proposals (finally approved), recommendations, objections,
etc. to the faculty. The faculty listened, said they’d think about it.

Finally, the fraternity presidents had to step in, and with straightforward, direct action, clear the mess up. At no time
during the entire rigamarole did the IFC make much of an attempt at intelligent compromise. In fact, it hardly attempted
anything without first passing the buck back to the fraternities. The IFC didn’t lead — it followed.

The weakness, of course, lies in the referendum system. The IFC is evidently afraid to exert its leadership. It seems
that most IFC representatives feel little responsibility to the school or even to the system as a whole. Their sole
responsibility appears to be tied up to their respective fraternities.

The council, once thought of as well-nigh infallible, has earned some critics this year. There has even been some discussion
about shifting the non-social functions of the group to the Student Council so as to allow the IFC to devote
its full time to planning dance weekends. We hope that this won't prove necessary. All the IFC needs is a
new philosophy and a little dynamic leadership.

el B. Millner
Charlie Rowe

Where’s Your Pin, Bud?. . By Millner

PRESENT SET-UP IS INADEQUATE

Independents Speak Out For Improved Social Life Facilities

By RICK von UNWERTH

What's it like to be an independent? A DAVIDSONIAN poll this week sought the answers. A handful of independents, questioned
about the social problems of the non-fraternity man on campus, drew a picture of limited facilities and a circumscribed social
life — and they offered suggestions for improving the situation.

The problem, agreed most, is that the independent student has no place to go. Independents eat in the Union snack
bar and at restaurants and sandwich shops in the town of Davidson; their only headquarters for recreation is the College
Union; they have little or no organization. Few are satisfied with the situation as it now exists. Most of them
want a change — though they are not agreed on what the change should be.

Most would like for the college to provide a house or meeting place for independent use only, similar to a
fraternity house, where independents could go to relax. Some suggested an organization of independent students. And many advocate a more
active role for independents in planning campus social life.

Most complaints center about independent difficulties on Dance Weekends. Said Senior Charles Ringe: “At present the independent must take his
date to the Union, where there are many who don't date. This tends to embarrass both those who are dating
and those without dates.” He suggested that “the independents should be allowed to use the faculty club or something on
this order. I think such a facility would improve the situation.”

Student Body President Henry Shue added, “The problem about Dance Weekends is that the independent group can’t feel like it
is as much our dance weekend, because we haven't had a part in its planning. “It’s as though the non-fraternity
men are simply invited. This creates a feeling that social activities are given for us but not by us.”

“There's nothing particularly exciting about going to the Union movie after the dances,” said Sam Pope, a Civil War, Reconstruction
Did Not CloseDavidson

By LEONARD RICHARDSON

Davidson College was the only college south of Virginia that did not close for a single session during the War
Between the States and Reconstruction. All the colleges in the Confederate States except Davidson and Roanoke College in Salem, Virginia
were forced to suspend instruction at some time during the war years of 1861-1865 and the Reconstruction era. When the
call for young men to defend their respective states grew stronger than the call to learning, Davidson’s enrollment dwindled until
at times the student body consisted only of prep school boys, ministerial students, and Confederate Army casualties who had been
too seriously wounded to continue fighting. A preparatory department for boys in their early teens was organized at Davidson in
the fall of 1862. These prep students were taken to give employment to the faculty while supplying a need because
of the closing of so many Southern schools. In addition to the prep boys, ministerial students, and Confederate veterans, there
were also at Davidson a few sons of wealthy families from Maryland and Virginia who had hired substitutes to fight
for them. Possibly these boys came to the small Presbyterian college in North Carolina to avoid the draft.

During the week following May 3, 1861, many students left Davidson to join the armies of their home states. No
formal closing exercises were held that year, but the Board of Trustees authorized the faculty to confer the A.B. degree
on all the members of the class of 1861. There were no graduates during the war except for James Henry
Douglass in 1864, who became a Presbyterian minister. After the war, there were no graduates until 1867 when the class
consisted of one man, a disabled veteran named John Lawrence Caldwell.

“Most of the weekends aren’t so much for the dance but for the after-dance parties.” What’s the solution? Ringo suggests
“a more closely-knit organization which could enable independents to plan and carry out a more well-rounded social life.” But Sam
Pope and others disagree. “Many independents aren't interested in a strong organization,” he said. “There are those who want organization,
those who don’t, and some who would like to be in fraternities.” Sophomore Dudley Salley suggests improving facilities and “taking
some of the pressure off the freshman to pledge a fraternity that may not be his choice. Many of them
feel that it is a choice between social life and none at all.”

There was strong agreement that independents should have a bigger voice in campus social planning. Ringo believes “the independents should
be given a vote on the IFC. This would give them a voice in the planning of the only campus-wide
social activities.” And Roger Durham, a Greensboro sophomore, suggested that Dance weekends be planned by a social committee under the
student council. “The social functions would then be sponsored by the school rather than the fraternities,” Durham said. “The committee
would be made up of one voting representative from each fraternity and one independent.” Under Durham’s plan, the IFC would
continue to have charge of rushing and inter-fraternity functions, but would not be responsible for school-wide activities. Said Henry Shue:
“I do feel that there should be some way for independents to share in the planning and work necessary for
these events. This would help them feel more a part of the school.” Among the independents questioned, there was mild
disagreement on solutions to the thorny “independent problem.” But all agreed on one point: things could be much better. “No
fraternity man,” quipped Sam Pope, “has ever gone inactive to get more social life.”

FOCUS

Madcap Charlie Reed — Was Last Of His Kind

By ERVIN DUGGAN

Argue if you will, but the fact remains: Davidson’s legendary characters, her uproarious and capricious personalities, her hilarious eccentrics are
no more. They have been frozen out by the icy blasts of collegiate coolness, frightened by our stolid reverence for
the conventional, muzzled by our lack of daring, repelled by our grim search for status and security. Davidson has become
a cradle for the comfortable and the cautious, not a gathering-ground for original minds; we are a community of the
competent, not the creative. What’s become of the characters? They are gone — perhaps forever.

Gone, too, is Charlie Reed, perhaps the wildest of all the campus individualists. Reed, a tall, bespectacled madcap, graduated last
year after four years at Davidson and a year in Munich. Now he’s studying history at the University of Chicago,
planning to become a college professor.

THE GREAT IMPOSTER

There are scores of tales about Reed’s “masquerades.” On one occasion Reed and a handful of compatriots, posing as “the
Princeton Tennis Team,” made a hilarious foray into South Carolina, complete with chauffeur and valet. They paid a visit to
Limestone College, caused a major flurry (with their opulent equipage and their feigned snobbery) among the status-conscious coeds, and then
returned to Davidson.

Reed delighted in loading a truck with student “gospeleers” and parading through Charlotte, singing and preaching. Assuming the role of
a fiery revivalist, he would wave a Bible and shout, “I wanta talk to you about GAWD!” And amidst cries
of “Amen!” and “Hallelujah!” he would exhort passers-by to repent and avoid the gaping maw of Hell.

HE COMMANDED THE PEONS

He was an organizer par excellence. Perhaps his favorite project was the Peon Army, which he commanded his senior year.
When Davidson’s ROTC Brigade had its 1960 awards day, the Peon commander gleefully padlocked all exits from the drill field
and left the entire cadet corps cooped and helpless within the fences. One week later, he staged the great Peon
Awards Day, presenting the Julius Rosenberg Medal to the “worst MS III cadet” and the Aaron Burr Award to “the
most lackadaisical MS IV.” His pageant was highlighted by scripture (“They shall beat their swords into ploughshares!”), band music, and
a message from the English Pacifist Movement, presented by a Richardson Scholar from Britain.

It was Reed who masterminded the famous “Who’s Nothing” tapping ceremony, a farcical chapel program recognizing outstanding campus goof-offs. And
Reed organized and directed the Davidson Hymnasters, an offbeat choral group dedicated to harmonizing risque barroom songs in fine style.

CAMPING AT SWEETBRIAR

His miscellaneous antics were breathtaking. One night an astonished dean caught Reed and another Davidson student camping on the Sweetbriar
College grounds. When she accused him of prowling, Reed rose in mock indignation, informed the lady that he was no
peeping-tom, but a lover of the outdoor life who often slept beneath the stars. And then he scooped up his
blanket, strode to his nearby Volkswagen and roared away, leaving the dean standing open-mouthed.

HE WAS A BRAIN

Reed was as brainy as he was zany. His academic record, though it often dipped near or below the danger
line, also displayed a sizeable number of superior grades, compiled effortlessly by Reed, who studied in fits according to his
mood and inclination. He was a voracious reader, a keen student of history and political science, a talented writer who
loved to write term papers. And once a friend heard him singing along with Eileen Farrell’s recording of Brunhilde’s Immolation
from Die Gotterdammerung; he knew not only the music but all the lyrics, singing in flawless German. The brilliant Reed,
fascinated by opera, had memorized most of Wagner's operatic works during his Munich year, on frequent trips to the Wagner
festival at Bayreuth.

HE’S STILL AT IT

Now, from Chicago, reports filter south which hint that his penchant for adventure has not waned. During the winter, to
settle an argument with a northern colleague who sneered at the South, he loaded his reluctant opponent into his car
and headed on an impromptu Southern jaunt. Arriving in Winston-Salem, Reed and his friend dropped in unexpectedly on a Davidson
classmate’s parents. “We've come to spend the weekend,” Reed announced. And when they were ushered to the guest room by
their surprised hostess, the incomparable Reed turned triumphantly to his awed Yankee friend. “That,” he said, “is Southern Hospitality!”

THE BEST DAYS ARE OVER

Charlie Reed won't be coming back. He was a once-in-a-lifetime experience for Davidson College: a rare combination of brains and
bubble, a Compleat Man whose friends included the most scholarly of the scholars and the most hellacious of the hell-raisers.
He was the last of his breed, a heroic breed of swashbuckling, irreverent individualists. Their days were the best days,
the most exciting days. Now, Davidson’s academic fields — if they are still fertile — abound with identical plants in
serried rows, like corn; the place is no longer the rich and steaming tropical jungle of personalities that it once
was. The best days, the most exciting days — alas — are gone forever.

Associate Editors
Tom Colvin
Ervin Duggan

Feature Editor
Leonard Richardson

Photographers
Jerry Abernathy
Bob Moore
Marty Lafferty

Managing Editors
David Jorian
Mae Plaxico

Assignment Editor
Steve Clark

Sports Editor
Olin Nisbet

Advertising Manager
Gene Adcock

Circulation Manager
Jimmy Platt

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
