Che Aauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor).

Victims Of Ambiguity

The Executive Committee last week campused for four months eight members of the soccer team under the Red Book regulation
prohibiting “drinking . . . while attending an off-campus event sponsored wholly or in part by Davidson College.” Without entering
into the judgment on the guilt or innocence of the students involved, THE DAVIDSONIAN wishes to protest the rule under
which the boys were tried. It has been common knowledge for some time among students and faculty members that drinking
has occurred on trips sponsored by the college, and no action has been taken. Indeed, the term “college sponsored event”
has been interpreted ambiguously; the rule has not been applied to after-dance parties. This purely expedient “solution” points up the
unenforceability of the regulation: why is an athletic trip any more a college-sponsored event than a publications convention, a student
council conclave, a dramatics trip—or a fraternity after-dance party?

The students in this case are unfortunately the victims of a long-dormant regulation open to ambiguous interpretation. This is not
the only regulation on which there is question of meaning and interpretation in the minds of students. Earlier this fall
the Student Council president, Honor Court chairman, and editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN went before administration officials seeking to prevent just
such an unfortunate case. No statement was made on this particular issue at that time. The ambiguities have remained, yet
the Executive Committee has been forced to take action in this case. Does this action represent its answer to the
problem? We hope not. A single enforcement of a regulation does not constitute a clarification, nor does it take into
consideration the basic questions of the justice and enforceability of the rule. We suggest a re-examination of this regulation. It
is our opinion that it should be eliminated.

The Editors

The YMCA -- Project Alert?

Fulton Lewis III and Prof. Patterson have rescued the YMCA lecture series on Communism from a rather unfortunate beginning in
assembly Monday and given it a strong impetus. The beginning has been interesting and worthwhile. The future is nebulous. As
plans now stand, the YMCA is considering spending its remaining funds on three speakers, Eugene Lyons, Franklin L. Burdette, and
Albert Burke, all of whom place strong emphasis on the problem of Communist aggression and Communist methods.

A YMCA spokesman has described the primary purpose of the series as an informative one. It is designed to acquaint
the student with the problems of Communism as a basis for the student’s own evaluation. As such, it fits very
properly into the YMCA Area of Citizenship. If the YMCA is to carry out its purpose in this series, however,
it must make the series more inclusive than it now plans. As the program now stands, there will be no
speaker who will deal with Communism as an ideology and its meaning to Western philosophy and the Western Christian tradition.
The series as it is now planned seems also to take a very “conservative” tack—a one-sidedness which violates the purpose
of the series to inform the student.

If the YMCA truly seeks to build good citizens at Davidson, we commend them. If they intend to turn the
Citizenship Area into an alarmist “Project Alert,” we are not in sympathy with their aims. In the Era of John
Birch, it is necessary that the YMCA select its speakers with a careful and judicious eye, taking a long look
at their views and qualifications. Communism is an issue about which there are many colors and shades of opinion. We
hope that the YMCA will make a genuine effort to present the full spectrum, presenting each opinion as fully and
justly as possible. The YMCA Cabinet should take care that the building of the series reflects a real interest in
truly informing the student and does not reflect the opinions and interests of one individual.

A Service Suggested

With the recent abundance of good lectures and fine musical programs, it has become obvious that Davidson should be doing
something to preserve the benefits and enjoyment of these events. A busy schedule and other obligations often prevent interested students
and faculty from attending all these activities. At a recent 1-2-5 luncheon in Charlotte, an alumnus was commenting on the
many “educational” attractions scheduled which he would unfortunately be unable to attend. “I wish the college could do something to
make them available to people like me,” he lamented.

Something could be done. With the equipment presently available, permanent tapes could be made of all the more outstanding lectures,
regular performances of the Male Chorus and Concert Band and special guest recitals like the recent organ convocation. Addresses of
the calibre of the Reynolds Lectures and Otts Lectures deserve more permanence than they now receive.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Lee Kirby

BUSINESS MANAGER
Don Saunders

Associate Editors
Bill Hagen
Mae Plaxico

Sports Editor
Steve Clark

Assignments Editor
Jeff Wampler

Feature Editor
Bill Ruth

News Editor
Sam Fort

Managing Editors
David Jordan
Gene Adcock

Photographer
Joe McCutchen

Cartoonists
Doug Ackerman
Joe Howell
Dan Adams

Advertising Manager
Ed Willer

Circulation Manager
Clay Atkins

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

The Chawinist . . . By Ackerman

Workers Distantly View

Sa Soothing Schol ve 5

Right ar Shows Disdain For USSR, Facts

Dr. John Turkevich, Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar, drew a crowd of 23 Davidson community regulars and 14 students (including
two Phi Bete’s) for his lecture on “Science and Education in Russia.” This presentation in Hodson Hall on Tuesday, Nov.
28, concluded a two-day visit to the campus. After a slow start, Dr. Turkevich got down to business. Putting aside
“all that business about steel production,” he predicted the ultimate failure of Communism. Communism will not win because Communism as
a system is an inefficient way to run a government and because the Russian worker is unable to produce so
well as the American.

TRANQUILIZING EFFECT

Disregarding such boring factual details as steel production; ignoring unimportant matters such as the ability of a socialist dictatorship to
mobilize, concentrate, and unify its industrial, scientific, and cultural efforts in a way unknown to Western capitalism, this scholar was
able to allay our fears within a few minutes of the opening of his address. A dynamic and persuasive speaker,
Turkevich appealed to the full range of American pride—from “America sits on the sunny heights of a mountain enjoying the
fruits of life” to plumbing. “I was wrong in my newspaper statement about Russian toilet facilities, they don't need 200,000
new units, they need two million!” Ah, America! the land of the indoor john and Delsey Tissue in three pastel
colors. . .

RUSSIAN EDUCATION

Dr. Turkevich did, however, present some very interesting details about Russian education from his own personal experience. Although the schools
are rigorous in their discipline and graduation is dependent upon an examination at the end of high school, grades lower
than “excellent” or “good” are seldom given because of pressure from the people.

LABORER-STUDENTS

There is a great stigma attached to low grades because the Soviets never account for differences in talent or interest
among students. “In Russia, everybody is considered capable of doing everything!” A new system of Marxist “Polytechnical” education has been
instituted which requires that all high school students do some practical work and that every high school graduate work two
years in a factory before entering the university. The admission of a student to the university is contingent upon the
vote of the worker’s committee in the plant in which he works. The polytechnical system teaches the students the dignity
of labor and the worker and helps solve the problem of university admissions and overcrowding.

PROGRESS DOWNGRADED

Russian technology, Turkevich emphasized, is not nearly so highly developed as the American’s. The Russians have made their spectacular achievements
by concentrating in special areas at the expense of other areas and basic research. Using American research, they boast that
they will “ride our backs to victory.” “I just don’t see how the Russians send up their rockets after carrying
them on those rickety trains and in those outdated trucks on those rough roads!” Dr. Turkevich exclaimed. What Dr. Turkevich
ignored is that the Russians have sent upthose rockets. Their basic research may be weak, they may ride our backs,
but this is nothing new. The United States rode the back of European research in developing our technology, but we
still developed. Dr. Turkevich did poor justice to a history which shows that the Russians are able to accomplish their
goals and come through in a pinch in spite of their drawbacks.

REVISIONIST TREND

Dr. Turkevich’s speech is a part of a “revisionist” trend in our evaluation of Russia. There is no need to
fear, the faithful were told: the Russian Giant, like Premier Khrushchev (“Mr. Nibbs” to Turkevich), is “just so high—just two
feet tall!” The lecture was an interesting and informative one, but it presented a view which seemed a bit superficial.
Too often, Dr. Turkevich made his statements a priori without backing them up by a factual analysis. Too often he
spoke in the tone of an agent of the State Department or Chamber of Commerce, for whom he has done
service in Russia.

SPEAKS KNOWINGLY

Replying to this reporter's question about a recent comparative study of American and Russian education in the humanities, he commented,
“The fellow probably didn’t even know Russian! I’ve seen that kind of people go over there and do those studies!”
Dr. Turkevich's lecture unfortunately disguised the fact that he is a scholar; what he was not able to disguise was
his Russian heritage—he is a natural born propagandist.

Diaz Interprets Adlai's Revolutionary Suggestion

BY TONY DIAZ

Adlai Stevenson, United States Ambassador to the United Nations and special envoy of President Kennedy to South America last year,
when reporting his impressions to the President, asked for “a revolution in order to end with feudalism in Latin America”
and also as the only way to stop communist infiltration in our hemisphere. Persons I talked with this summer were
very much surprised by the suggestions of this distinguished North American politician, since recent events witnessed by the world have
been able to measure what these “revolutions” can signify. Bolivia, Argentina, Cuba are good examples.

Stevenson’s declaration, nevertheless, has a perfect explanation. We all know that when a foreign dignitary arrives in our countries, as
soon as he has stepped off his plane he is surrounded by politicians intent upon getting U.S. foreign aid.

NEW DEALER

Stevenson’s declaration favoring a revolution is also explained since he is a “new dealer.” The North American new dealer is
considered by many in South America to be a version, a little bit corrected and pasteurized, of the South American
leftist who is half socialist, half radicalist and who believes that Capitalism is bound to disappear. The new dealer believes
very much in the State as a regulator of life, and pays tribute to the economy directed from above not
realizing, however, that North American greatness was made and is still being made from below.

The bad thing about Stevenson and his declarations is his influence in the circle that surrounds President Kennedy.

REVOLUTIONARY RESULTS

Revolutions don’t work if they intend to increment the national income of a country; they make it fall to the
lowest levels. Nor do revolutions work when they intend to bring freedom, because when the social structure of a country
is changed by violent means the only way to keep these changes standing is terror, whether the revolution comes from
the people or from the government. Poverty is only conquered with prosperity, in my dictionary that is to say work,
labor; but the prerequisite for human labor is freedom. For many years the U.S. committed the mistake of giving their
warm sympathy to the Latin American oppressors; feeling that we were not ready or mature enough for freedom yet. If
the U.S. followed Stevenson’s advice, it would commit a second and unforgivable mistake. Revolutions don't serve to build up countries,
nor to pull them out of misery, nor to assure them freedom.

Double TUC System Logic

BY BOB IVEY

In covering a recent uprising of the natives of the distant land of Absalom (David’s son) Harry Hotscoop has forwarded
us the basic information about the situation. The grand sovereign and his advisors (consisting of some bored trustees from the
old folks home and a Tourists’ Board) are having difficulty in explaining the reasoning behind one of their long-standing policies.
The government here owns and controls all of the labor in this lovely land from its central office on the
hill. The laborers are required to work at their tasks every day in order to receive their wages semiannually. Other
than recent loss of leg, head, or life, the only way they may be excused from their work is by
the ingenious system of TUCs (Tasks Uncompleted Condoned) given by the government. Usually, four TUCs are given to each laborer
semiannually, allowing him to take his absences as he desires, one TUC per day. The recent trouble was brought about
from the fact that these officials charge double for TUCs used immediately before and after the Festival periods. This means
that those who live in the far away land of Faraway have no opportunity to take advantage of the entire
Festival period without forfeiting an extra TUC each time—giving them a total of two days vacation per half year period
if they desire to be with their fellow Farawaians at Festival seasons. The natives have submitted that this is unreasonable—to
be given free time and then to be penalized for using it. The thinking of the government seems to be
that just because labor is carried on on the days immediately preceding and following Festival days, they will attempt to
force the workers to be there, even though the work is no more important then than on any other day—and
even though production can be carried on just as successfully with fewer men for one or two days. Their only
statement concerning this has been that we do this so that we can stop work when we say we will.
In other words, this government seems to be enforcing laws just because they have been made and enforced in years
past, and because they are upheld by a few other small townships who are in the same rut. Things may
improve, however, for Harry Hotscoop reports that at a recent press conference, the grand sovereign indicated that he himself might
well be in favor of a more liberal TUC system. Let’s hope so, for after all, if any group of
people is capable of regulating their own absences, certainly these sons of David are.

Concern For Peace Stirs Students To Demonstrate

BY BILL HAGEN

Davidsonian Managing Editor

To promote concern—this was the reason 45 students fasted over the Thanksgiving holidays. Students from Amherst, Mount Holyoke, and Smith
colleges, and the University of Massachusetts picketed the White House on Thanksgiving day, eating nothing, to demonstrate against resuming above-ground
nuclear testing. A spokesman for the group said that, “We want to dramatize to families at home on this day
of abundance that there should be concern for public discussion of this matter.” A similar group from Cornell (Iowa) College
drank only water during a 72-hour period; carrying on a “Vigil for Peace” begun the week before by students from
Grinnell, Carleton, and Bluffton colleges. Silently marching, as they did for at least five hours a day, with a chilling
wind and early Christmas shoppers for company, the placard carriers looked ridiculously out of place. A few tourists, trying for
the White House, even took their picture. But their very orderliness and gravity, perhaps an alien phenomenon to some goldfish-bred
elders, gave a certain dignity to their purpose. More used to reading about bed-pushing marathons, curious passers-by were probably a
little surprised to see, on the statements of purpose handed out, “We are making this trip... to demonstrate our concern
and show our willingness to work for peace. “Although we hope to convince our campus and friends of the immediacy
of this problem, we feel a great need for other students on other campuses to demonstrate their concern in some
way. “We do not plan to stop our efforts with a trip to Washington. When we return to school we
will continue to work constructively for peace in campus and national groups, and by further discussion and study.” In a
city accustomed to causes, this idealistic optimistic statement rang singularly true. One was prompted to ask, “How many times have
the American people made the stockpiling of bombs or hatred of the enemy a national purpose rather than peace?” Surely,
as utopian as it may sound, it is better to epitomize this than the ideas of building up a “balance
of terror” on one hand or meek submission on the other, with an alternate to both of enslavery and death
that the extremists would have us embrace. The idea of “peace on earth...” won’t be achieved by witch hunts and
simple hatred of all Reds. A man guilty, until proven innocent, public charges made by government officials, without a following
trial, condemnation for using a constitutional right... Fascists hated Communists too. “If our demonstration makes others give more thought to
the problem, if they are moved by what we have done, if they decide to make a commitment to work
for peace, then we will feel that our efforts have been worthwhile.”
