FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1961 . PAGE THREE | Sideline By STEVE CLARK

Many Thanks, Bill

Many thanks are due to Bill Godwin for the excellent job he has done as Sports Editor this year. Bill was constantly concerned with keeping his readers up to date on the news from one of the most important departments (and one the most often overlooked) at Davidson College — athletics.

We Were Robbed!

If Lefty Driesell jumped out of his chair and stomped beautiful Memorial Auditorium (and he did), he had plenty of reasons for doing so. The greatest robbery since the famous Brink’s affair was going on. Only this time, the crooks were not stealing money, but a precious conference basketball victory from the desperate Davidson Wildcats.

No Basket

The robbery took place in the following manner: Haywood Evans, Wildcat guard, took a pass from a teammate and proceeded to drive for the basket. As he went up for the lay-up, he ran into a Paladin. However, Evans managed to shoot the ball, which beautifully spun through the net. The defending Paladin had of course hit the floor shrill of a whistle. The referee, Mr. ‘Rocky’ Hartzog, who has a great deal of experience calling high school games in and around Salisbury, yelled, “Charging, number 31, red!” This wasn’t a bad call since the charging or blocking could have gone either way. However, Hartzog threw fat on the fire when he surprisingly exclaimed, “No basket!”

Basket Should Have Counted

The 1961 NCAA rule book plainly states (in essence) that if any player who is fouled or fouls while in the act of shooting, makes the basket, the basket counts. Evans was definitely in the act of shooting when he “charged,” and he made the basket. Evidently, Mr. Hartzog, our high school expert, missed the call. Naturally, Driesell was mad. The call couldn’t have come at a better time for Furman. There were seven or eight minutes left in the game, and Davidson led by six points. We would have gladly traded a basket for two free throws. As it was, Furman cut the lead, and eventually went on to win by one point, 71-70. I'll admit that this one call didn’t actually lose the game for Davidson. There are always a hundred “if’s” anytime one loses a ball game. I do say that the call broke rally. Following the game, a Furman player admitted, “It was a bad call.”

A Questionable Game

Hartzog and his cohort, Art Kapper, well known to local fans, called a questionable game. Figure this one out. Davidson made seven more field goals than Furman. Davidson out-rebounded Furman, 47-40. Yet, Davidson lost. Obviously, the difference came on the free throw line. Furman had only eight fouls called on them; Davidson was charged with 19. Thus we went to the line nine times, while the Paladins felt right at home after 27 trips there.

Something Should Be Done

I am not questioning the integrity of Hartzog, Kapper, or any of the men in stripes. I am concerned over the ability of some of these men. After all, the Southern Conference is “big time” college ball, and should strive to get the best personnel available for this important phase of the game. Referees are human and are going to make mistakes, but there are those who will make fewer mistakes than others. These men should be obtained, trained, and paid well. Something should be done about home court domination also. Some schools (examples - VPI, UNC) are virtually unbeatable on their home court. A referee can’t help being swayed in his decision when thousands of hostile looking young men threaten his safety.

Comments

Thinclads

School’s high jump record at VMI

FAVORED In Loop Tourney

The Davidson College indoor track team, short in number but long in spirit, travels to Lexington, Va., tomorrow for the annual Southern Conference indoor tournament. The thinclads, fresh from a third-place finish Saturday in the Big Five meet at Carolina, will pin their hopes on the following men: Keith Fraser, who broke the

RUGGED TEST

The ‘Cats face a rugged test tomorrow. VMI will host the favorite. Coach Roger Thrift explained, “VMI should definitely be the toughest. After all, they have the best indoor facilities in the conference on which to practice. However, The Citadel and Furman will be strong contenders.” Thrift admitted that his forces are not up to top strength. He stated, “We're interested in getting more boys out. Those interested in outdoor track in the Carolina; Hug Murray and John Chiles, broad jump artists; Bob Cordle, 60-yard dash man; Roger Beebe, 440-yard dasher and John Sharp and Bob Marshall, distance runners. Last Saturday, the Wildcats participated in the Big Five meet, or the “Carolina Invitational.” The state's four Atlantic Coast Conference teams and Davidson were there.

FINISH THIRD

The final score read: Carolina, 79; Duke, 32½; Davidson, 12; Wake Forest 4; and N. C. State, 3½. Davidson's 12 points were divided accordingly: Frazer, five (first in the high jump); Murray, three (second in the broad jump); Chiles, two (third in the broad jump); Cordle one, (fourth in the 60-yard dash); and one point was divided among Cordle, Sharp, Marshall, and Beebe for a fourth place finish.

Swimmers Call On VPI - Toughest Foe

Riding on a wave of six losses and three defeats, the Catfish travel to VPI tomorrow for the toughest meet of the year. Last Friday the Wildcat frogmen completely smothered an outclassed Appalachian, capturing all first places and registering a total of 68 points to their opponents’ 22.

BEST MEET

The perspective will change vastly tomorrow. “We don't want to overestimate or underestimate,” says Coach Shoe. “But VPI is capable of beating us bad, or we can edge them out. It will be the best meet of the year.” The problem of team depth that has hampered the ‘Cats to a degree throughout the entire season remains the Achilles’ heel of the team. Department for department, Shoe ranks his ‘Catfish with the conference best. But VPI and VMI rest their power on a heavily-stocked reserve buttress, while Davidson is dependent on individual workhorses, such as Tom Hudgins and Stephen Young.

Leaps 6-2 At Carolina “Wildcat Of The Week”

The tall, lean, dark-haired young man stood looking between the two poles as if it were a beautiful young resting. He began a systematic trot toward the bar, picked up speed as he neared it, leaped gracefully, and rolled over it. When he landed in the sawdust pit, Davidson College had a new school high jump record. The young man was Keith Fraser, our Wildcat of the Week. The place was Chapel Hill, where last Saturday Davidson’s indoor track squad finished third in the state’s Big Five meet. Fraser's leap was officially measured at 6’ 1¾,” bettering the old school record of 6’ 1½” set by Jack Huffaker in 1955. Fraser is a 6’ 2” sophomore from Florence, Ala. He never cleared 6’

Delts Shock SAE's; Close Race In Sight

The Phi Delts pulled the intramural basketball upset of the week Monday night when they nipped the previously unbeaten SAE’s, 30-28. In addition, the Delt victory seriously dampened the SAE’s hopes of repeating as champions. Last year they shared the championship with the Independents. Bob Denham hit a basket at the buzzer for the vic-In high school, but admits he didn’t learn to roll, the Phi Gams downed the Pi Kapps, and the undefeated KA’s clipped the Sig Eps. By virtue of Monday night's results, the KA’s, Kappa Sigs, and the Betas moved into a three-way tie for first place. All are undefeated.

HAMILTON SHINES

The IF basketball scoring leaders, their team, and average are as follows:
Tommy Hamilton, Betas, 16.8.
Hight Redmond, KA’s, 16.5.
Jim Fuller, Kappa Sigs, 16.0.
John Sharp, KA’s, 14.3.
Bill Wallace, Betas, 14.0.
Rick Lowery, Independents, 13.0.

Fraser leaped intensely at the crossbar woman, over the bar until the state meet his senior year. He had always scissored over. Last year, Fraser was a standout on the freshman team. He broke the record at the Furman Relays when he sprung 6’ 1”.

JUMPS IN SUMMER

Last summer, while working as a lifeguard in Montreat, N.C., the Wildcat trackster won the annual Valley Athletic Association meet at Camp Rockmont. In addition, he won at the famous Highland Games on Grandfather Mountain. Fraser is a pre-med major and maintains a 2.5 scholastic average. He is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity and is respected for his jumping ability in I-F basketball and volleyball action. Fraser hopes to break his own record soon. Tomorrow's conference tournament would be as good a time as any, and he has plans to turn in a good performance there. Fraser stated, “It has been real hard getting into shape this year. I have several labs and the weather hasn’t cooperated very much. Except for the few good days around Mid-Winters, the cold and rain have kept my pit in pretty bad shape.”

Pfeiffer Here Tuesday In Grapplers’ Home Final

By GEORGE PEPPER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson matmen will close their regular season here Tuesday night at 7:30 in a return match with Pfeiffer College. Going into this meet, Coach Charles Parker's grapplers have posted a 4-5 record with wins over Pfeiffer, North Carolina, Emory, and a large margin to spare, bringing home a 23-11 victory. With this behind him, Parker feels confident of finishing the season with a 5-5 record. This past Tuesday, the wrestlers journeyed to Raleigh and N.C. State in high hopes of posting another victory after losses to strong VMI and VPI teams. The match was a seesaw battle all the way, with the final outcome resting on the shoulders of heavyweight Cliff Thompson.

CLUTCH WIN

Parker's anchorman and lone senior won a 2-0 decision and thus gave the ‘Cats a 20-17 win over State. Tom Wright, Butch LeDoyen, Ben McCoy, and Charles Trask provided 17 points with two pins, a forfeit, and a draw respectively. The wrestling squad will go to the conference tournament at West Virginia March 3-4. The powerful VPI team is heavily favored to win this event. Parker says, “Wright is getting tough,” and thinks the sophomore will do all right in the tournament. He is the squad’s leading scorer with 24 points; Thompson is second with 18.

Jarman works for shot against Erskine

Since VMI beat Richmond, 78-75, Tuesday night, they practically handed the Wildcats the cellar position in the conference, unless the ‘Cats pounce on the Bulldogs and bring home a victory.

PLAY TO WIN

When asked about the crucial Citadel game, Coach Driesell said: “This game is going to be a tough one, but the boys don't want to stop now. From now on we play to win.” The Wildcats lost a real thriller Saturday night to Furman 71-70. Leading scorer was Bill Shinn with 22 points, and Joe Markee was the leading rebounder with 22 snares. This is the most rebounds that a Davidson cager has grabbed this season in a single game.

RUSH ERSKINE

Tuesday night Markee’s 19 points helped ease the ‘Cats past Erskine in the final game on the Johnston gym planks. The ‘Cats played as if they were out for blood by crushing the Fleet, 77-58. The Wildcats connected on 27 of 55 shots from the floor for a 49.1% accuracy and they out-rebounded Erskine 51 to 22. Markee was the ‘Cats leading scorer with 19 and rebounder with 14. Bill Shinn with 16 points, and Haywood Evans with 14 joined Markee in the double figures. Driesell is proud of his team’s hard work this year as the ‘Cats have an overall record of 9 wins against 13 losses and a conference record of 2-9. The worst the ‘Cats were defeated on their home court was by nine points to VPI.

MARKEE SPARKS

Joe Markee has been the leading rebounder and scorer all year long. Bill Jarman has done an excellent job under the basket, while Bill Shinn has been popping the ball through the net with amazing accuracy lately. The Davidson freshman team has a record of 6 wins against 7 losses. Driesell feels that this year's freshman team will help the varsity a great deal next year and provide Davidson with a better ball club.

NOTICE!

Baseball Coach Tom Stevens announced this week that all students interested in going out for baseball, varsity or freshman, should report to the second-floor office in the gym on Monday, February 27. Freshmen should report at 3 p.m., and varsity at 4 p.m. The Western North Carolina High School Athletic Association is holding its annual wrestling tournament on the Johnston Gym mats this weekend. Schools include Mooresville, Statesville, Wilkes-Central, Asheboro, Albemarle, Thomasville, Lenoir, Marion, and Kannapolis. Tournament director Charlie Parker announced that student admission will be 50c. Semifinals begin tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m., and the finals begin at 7:30 tomorrow.

FROSH STANDOUTS

Parker also mentioned freshmen Sam Glascow (147), Billy Mills (167), Tom Day (177), and Russell Walls (heavy) as good prospects for the squad next year.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.

“New additions to the family! The two new telephones in the bassinet are the result of a perfect marriage of research and design. They illustrate the way General Telephone constantly strives to make the telephone an ever more convenient and helpful service of modern life. The Starlite* phone in the foreground is a new “compact” — only half the size of a standard desk phone. Its PANELESCENT® (electroluminescent) dial glows in the dark for easy dialing, and can be turned up to serve as a night light. The phone can be hung anywhere — on posts and in tight corners. Both dial and handset can be adjusted to fit the space and the convenience of the user. These new and modern phones for the home were developed by our subsidiary, Automatic Electric, largest supplier of telephone equipment to America’s Independent telephone industry. They are but two examples of how General Telephone & Electronics works to improve equipment and advance communications for the home, for industry and national defense— both here and abroad.

*Trademark

GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS