Che Aauidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Thefts Bring Disgrace

We are frankly ashamed of the lead story in tonight’s paper. We are ashamed of what it reflects on our
honor system and the college, whether the thefts were committed by student or outsider or both.

Two weeks ago we ran an article by Scott Lacy, past Honor Court chairman, revealing the extent of stealing on
campus. It was accompanied by an editorial calling for caution and concern. We hoped we were through with the subject.
This week’s thefts changed that. Stealing has now extended beyond the student body with the theft of money and wallets
from VPI athletes on campus. Their coach admitted the members of his team were negligent, just as many Davidson students
have been. He was almost apologetic. The boys themselves said it was their fault. They were surprised by the concern
shown by our Honor Court. Missing items on athletic trips was nothing new, they explained. This type of thing happens
everywhere. But it doesn’t have to happen here, and we have every right to be alarmed that it did.

Before, when the stealing problem was just a “family affair,” students did not seem overly concerned. Now the school as
a whole is involved in the eyes of outsiders. The losses suffered by guests on the campus bother us. We
think that money should be sent to them with the official apologies going from the college and student body, and
we believe Davidson students would prefer to make up that $41 themselves. The Student Council and Honor Court are considering
possible ways of doing that.

Campus attitudes this week have convinced us that Davidson students are concerned now—about the VPI boys and our own honor
system. We hope this new concern will help bring real results in halting such disgraces. The Honor Court cannot solve
the problem alone.

Ambassadors Of Good Will

Tonight the Male Chorus sings for us, after a tour of the country which included stops in Virginia, Maryland, New
Jersey, and New York City. In New York, they wound up singing a complete concert when a late plane kept
Dean Johnston from speaking to the New York Alumni Association. A Davidson alumnus is enthusiastic over the possibilities of making
recordings, for sale, of the chorus. At least one chorus member was offered a job.

Donald Plott’s roving good-will ambassadors also visited Hollins and W.C. of U.N.C., where the name of Davidson hardly needs boosting.
But at such schools as Princeton and Mount Holyoke, their appearance no doubt brought the inevitable “Davidson? Where's that?” But
during the last few years, Davidson’s Male Chorus has toured almost every state in the East, singing at schools, churches,
and alumni gatherings. Wherever possible, members stay in homes of local residents. Davidson alumni are their biggest fans, though they
almost always receive return invitations wherever they go. The chorus probably has done more to spread the name and fame
of Davidson than any other college organization. We’re proud to give them credit.

D.B.S.

‘Hats Off’ To Henry

In a brief ceremony in student assembly last week, the 1960-61 Student Council stepped down for the new council to
take over student government. The retiring council, headed by Henry Shue, deserves praise for its vigorous, constructive work during the
past year.

The revised Student Body Constitution passed by the student body on March 9 was the product of six months of
work and study by a committee made up of Hutton Barron, George Trask, Ken Kelley, and Nat Watson. Article X
of the revised constitution gives the council power to effect changes in the by-laws by a 3/4 vote of the
council. This will allow the council to act quickly and efficiently on problems as they arise.

The revised constitution replaced the Court of Control with a new Freshman Court headed by the Freshman Advisor, who is
elected by the rising senior class. The spirit of the new court embodies a more constructive attitude toward freshmen, with
the best interests of the freshman class its primary concern.

Besides these two important changes, the revised constitution does away with the verbose, involved former constitution of which the council
even had a hard time finding a single complete copy.

In December, the council sliced the “under the influence of alcohol” clause from the drinking rule, relieving the student body
of responsibility of enforcing the rule. The success of the Freshman Court will depend on the personalities of the men
appointed to it last week, and the wisdom of deleting the “under the influence” clause from the drinking rule will
depend on the maturity shown by the student body.

Retiring Student Body President Henry Shue’s consistently strong leadership this year has brought a new prestige to the Student Council
and to the office of president. The success of the council is to a large extent a reflection of his
courage, sincerity, and ability. Through his untiring devotion to the duties involved in the office and his academic achievements, Shue
has made a record at Davidson which should provide a real challenge to his successors.

O. L. R.

Feature Editor __ Rick von Unwerth
Photographers __ Jerry Abernethy, Marty Lafferty, Bill Wyche
Advertising Manager __ Ed Willer
Circulation Manager __ Jimmy Platt
Assistant Bus. Manager __ Rick Finch

Epes Finds Honors Program Lacking

BY HANSFORD EPES

EDITOR'S NOTE: Senior Hansford Epes has been participating in English Honors for two years. He consented to evaluate the program
based on his experiences, for THE DAVIDSONIAN.

In English Honors, six members of the present senior class enrolled in the program at the beginning of their junior
year; four of these remain. Last fall, four juniors enrolled; two of these dropped out at the end of the
first semester. The reason? In more than one case, discontent with the program—the disappointment of realizing that Honors does not
work nearly as well as it sounds.

It is somewhat frustrating to find that seminars—supposedly the opportunity for stimulating discussion within a small group of “scholars”—reality, a
long monologue by the professor; to find that the opportunities for students to loaf and get by are great, and
are taken advantage of; and especially to find that the Honors student probably knows less about the subject than someone
taking it in class.

STUDENTS TO BLAME

Needless to say, much of the blame for this falls on

Howell be ed rperag ty o> ott: ent Sweet Hemoglobin...

BY ERVIN DUGGAN

Sends Letter From Vienna

Dear Members of the Student Body,

This year at Davidson has been a particularly outstanding one, characterized by imaginative leadership, noteworthy accomplishment in both our academic
and extracurricular pursuits, and a greatly accelerated flow of ideas and information among students and faculty alike. With the approaching
end of the semester I would like to convey my congratulations and thanks to all those in the student body
who have contributed their ideas and talents toward making 1960-61 the singularly productive year that it has been, and in
particular I wish to express on behalf of the student body sincere gratitude to Henry Shue for his forceful leadership
as student body president. As a president contributing both original and creative leadership he deserves our highest praise.

The goals we have realized this year should serve only as foundation blocks upon which further improvements and advances for
the college can be built. You the student body members and the men you have elected this spring as your
representatives hold the promise of making 1961-62 a year of achievement for the college and for yourselves.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Sparks Spears Salley, Abolition

Dear Editor:

A prostitute walks the streets of our land—dressed in the materialistic disguise of a whimpering, patriotic bitch. She is disowning
her heritage and is attempting to sell her children into bondage. In her hands she carries a bullwhip and a
branding iron; she makes Calvaries of our courts and burns the mark of Cain on some of our sensitive and
most informed political leaders.

But she is not alone. The well-meaning masses follow behind her, wagging their tongues and shaking their barbed fingers at
allthose, big or small, who oppose her. They do not intend to ruin our land; rather they insist that they
are making “safe for democracy” the land we must give to our unborn children.

CONSERVATIVES OPPOSED

Few conservatives on this campus will articulate their position, and some of them, conservative in all other areas, oppose violently
the Unamerican Activities Committee. The rest of this group defend with generalizations and Timea. Regardless of the worth of these
publications, let us go to the author of the Declaration of Independence. In The Main Currents of American Thought, Vernon
L. Parrington quotes Jefferson as writing: “It is very dangerous to consider the judges (or the committee chairman) as the
ultimate arbiters of all constitutional questions. It is one which would place us under the despotism of oligarchy. The constitution
has erected no such single tribunal, knowing that to whatever hands confided, with the corruptions of time and party, its
members would become despots.”

MAJORITY DEFEND

Some will speak out against the would-be despots; some of the apathetic will not care; but the majority, with their
blue-blood naivete, will defend them. “Operation Abolition,” the anti-communism film shown in the Union Ballroom a few days ago, accused
the students who demonstrated against the committee investigations in San Francisco last May of being duped into treason. If it
wants to prevent “treason,” why doesn’t the federal government show films against the American tourists in Europe — Madras-clad vultures
who gobble carrion while flaunting their wealth? Or why don’t they make a survey of the number of Americans who
are impartially informed as to the influence of Communism at home and abroad? The number would be small.

MENACE REAL

The Communist menace is real. It needs to be checked at every opportunity. But rather than make somewhat futile attempts
through almost Fascist organs of the government which contribute excellent propaganda to the Communist party, the American government could silently
and persistently extract this menace from the land. And if Americans want to fight communism at home, they should reorient
themselves to the ideals of their political founders and espouse this cause of true patriotism.

Ben Sparks

THE STUDENT

It is easy to loaf in this informal setup — and we do it. No matter what changes the faculty
makes, we, as students, must carry our share of the responsibility. But there are flaws in the present administration of
the program. Seminars vary widely, but a “typical” semester in one Honors subject might go like this: The student signs
up for a seminar. A text is recommended and rarely referred to again; the professor outlines the course, assigning papers
to be due at certain meetings, and possibly recommends several secondary sources. He then starts telling anecdotes. (The supply of
these is endless.)

PAPERS

Papers are written and read. (This usually presents a problem: write decent papers on narrow topics and neglect the major
portion of the subject matter; or read and study the subject matter and neglect the papers. However, upon learning that
papers are discussed in seminars while subject matter isn’t, students usually pay more attention to papers — if we do
any work at all.) More anecdotes; more passing mentions of books (especially if available in paperback); more name-dropping (“The last
time I talked to Chaucer, he said..."); an exam (“Discuss anything. Spend no more than three hours on this.”); and
that’s the course. I'm exaggerating; but maybe this helps show where some of the flaws are — and taking steps
to remedy some of these should not be too hard. Just two things the faculty could do would make a
great deal of difference: (1) Learning to do papers of this sort is good training — but simply not worth
the proportion of study time usually spent on them; and (2) — with all due respect, gentlemen, but I think
you could talk less and say more. This plus genuine work on our part should improve matters considerably. By this
work, I mean really sitting down and studying the primary material; after all, contrary to general opinion, even Honors students
need to learn facts. Honors would thus be something more, not less, than regular class work — as it should
be.

WORTH KEEPING

The Honors program is worth keeping: it has great potential for representing education at its best, but it seems to
be far from realizing the ideal so glowingly described through the rose-colored glasses of the College Catalogue. This type of
educational program, when it lives up to its potential, can be very important to the college, and can be expanded
to include far more students than it now does. But before that time, we need to reconsider and improve Honors.

FOCUS

“Flow Gently, Yeah, doctor, for four nights now... yes sir... exactly the same, every night since the Blood rive...”

The nurse, a rather wasp-faced little woman, cursed and extracted a blade from her garter. “Any hives, boils, measles, rickets,
yaws, mumps or fever? Don't lie to me, you sniveling coward. Any pox, tremors, palsy, itch, rot, rash or plague?”

“...nine lady. You're hurting my finger with that e.”

“...Headaches? Colds? Minor pains of neuritis or neuralgia? Any leprosy, elephantiasis or pregnancy in the last ten days?”

Ignoring my screams, she deftly drained my finger of its contents, pronounced me healthy, and propelled me to another station
with a well-placed kick. A burly ROTC sergeant caught me, pushed an empty gallon jug into my hands, and pointed
to a door. “In dere, buddy. Wid all dem nurses. Watch the one with the long teeth, though. Don’t turn
yer back on ‘er.”

Feigning calm, I crawled in the direction he pointed. I was scaling a tiled wall toward a window when a
smiling nurse’s aide pulled me down, rendered me half-conscious with a high-heeled shoe, and led me into the receiving room,
a sort of clinical abattoir populated by nurses and prostrate donors. A sudden wild vision of the Nazi medical experiments
skittered across my mind.

“Stop trembling, now,” cooed my guide. “It’ll be over in a minute. You won't know what hit you.” She laid
me on a table and left me to the contemplation of my past sins, a pleasant diversion which was shattered
by the arrival of the bloodletter, a hefty student nurse with glittering eyes and a grin only a little less
than maniacal.

“Aha,” she said by way of introduction. She seized my arm, brandishing a long metal needle on a plastic tube.
“Hold your breath and it won’t hurt so bad.” I held my breath an inordinately long time, until the stabbing
pain in my arm caused me to faint. She revived me with a sound slap. “Uh, could you hold your
breath again? I can’t seem to find a vein.” She aimed the needle again. “I just can’t understand it. They
told us EVERYBODY has veins...”

She squinted and waved the needle confusedly after another try. “I guess I’ll have to try someplace else... Maybe there's
a vein in your neck or somewhere.” She tried again. “I just can’t understand it. I tried it last night
with an orange and a ten-penny nail and it worked fine.”

She stilled my convulsions quickly with a blow to the solar plexus. With a last effort, she found a vein,
then left me to listen to an ominous gurgling in the jug. “You're bleeding fine,” she said cheerily. “Didn't hurt
a bit, did it?”

“Yes, doctor, the same dream, every night... There’s this chorus of medieval barber-surgeons, see, and they’re clinking on jugs with
ten-penny nails... and this big nurse is dancing... yes, sir — with a big bat...”

Illogical opinions this bastard off-shoot of perverted patriotism. Mr. Salley asked us to check some sources. Was The Nation one
of them? Would the “dupes” ask us to read The Reporter?

WELL, I WASN'T SURE SO I PUT DOWN “DR. SEUSS”! WHAT DID YOU PUT DOWN UNDER "FAMILY PHYSICIAN?"
