FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

A LOOK AT... SPORTS
By Bill Godwin

Netters Have A Coach

DAVIDSON ATHLETIC Director Tom Scott announced this week the appointment of Semi Mintz (Davidson, 1959) as tennis coach. Now serving in the Army at Ft. Jackson, S. C., Mintz replaces Ted Keesler, who resigned after last season. He will assume his coaching duties early in March, upon discharge from six months’ active duty. Mintz has been spending his summers at home in Raleigh as a tennis instructor at the local country club and has taken part in several amateur tournaments in the immediate area. At Davidson, he was outstanding in both tennis and basketball, playing four years in both sports. Leader for the season 1957-58, hitting 105 of 119 attempts for an .882 percentage. He was basketball team captain his senior year. An outstanding athlete at Broughton High School in Raleigh, Mintz attended the University of North Carolina Law School for one year before entering service. He will be at Davidson for the coming season only, according to Scott.

A Stitch In Time

MAYBE IT’S none of our business and maybe it’s just a coincidence, but we've noted a remarkable upswing in Wildcat basketball fortunes since the players elected co-captains in late December. Seniors Joe Markee and Jim Nuckolls are the lucky (and deserving) cagers.

Cagers Carry Two-Game Winning Streak Into Clemson Tigers Tomorrow

It was the intention of Coach Lefty Driesell before the season started not to have a captain or co-captains at that time, which is normally the time of election. When co-captains were elected, Davidson was dragging under a seven-game losing streak. The boys had been clobbered the night before by East Tennessee State for the seventh loss. The election took place shortly before the consolation tourney game with North Texas State. Davidson commanded that game and the game with William & Mary Wednesday night. There has been a noticeable change in their performance, not only from the scoreboard, but in attitude and hustle. Driesell, who, during the East Tennessee State game could only say, “XXXX isn’t doing a thing right out there—get in for him quick, ZZZZ,” and was calling his players “sissies,” turned around this week and told the world, “Watch us!” It’s noticeable. The men who before had a general on the bench, now have a couple of sergeants, too. They're looking like a team now, taking chances, winning games. This is not to say Davidson will win all its remaining games. But, mind you, it’s not to say we won't, either.

Tournament Tidbits

LAUREL, Mississippi, a city of 35,000, enjoying its first annual basketball tournament... One hotel, the Pinehurst, where the players stayed... A bowling alley converted into a basketball gymnasium, where the games were played... The tickets, two bucks apiece for each game... A team from North Carolina listed as Davidson U... A vendor waving his wares—a fistful of Sugar Bowl ducats... A Mississippi State team, which lost to champion North Texas State (Davidson defeated them in the consolation game)... “Coach, where is East Tennessee State located?”... Reply: “In East Tennessee”...

More Of The Same

NOMINATION for most nervous player in the tournament: Southern’s amazing little guard Roy Danforth, chewing a tobacco-sized wad of paper which he removed and fingered before every foul shot... Coolest player: Again on Southern’s squad, 6-8 center Bill Lundberg, a pregame warm-up clown, sporting a duck-tail, Elvis Presley haircut... A sophomore, expelled shortly before high school graduation for slugging the principal... Had kind words for both referees... Southern, the only “small college” in the gym, with a student body five times the size of Davidson's, but with only half the brainpower...

South Carolina Tops Davidson Freshmen

By JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson frosh basketballers, holding a 2-3 record, tangle with the Bullpups from The Citadel in the preliminaries next Saturday night on the homecourt. In their latest match, the tent show of talent and potential...

The official looks intently as Davidson’s Harry Brown attempts to get a leg hold on his Duke opponent.

UNC, 23-10.

“BIG WEEK” HERE

The Blue Devils won, 14-13, but the ‘Cats came back the next week to wallop UNC, 23-10.

Davidson Wrestlers Put 2-1 Record On The Line

By CARL RUST
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's wrestlers, despite pre-season gloom and a crippling injury, have pinned down a 2-1 record, which they will try to protect here next weekend during a three-day scramble with The Citadel and West Virginia. The ’Cats will meet The Citadel at 7:30 p.m. Thursday. On Friday night the Mountaineers and Bulldogs will clash. Then Davidson will hit West Virginia Saturday afternoon.

“BIG WEEK”

Davidson Coach Charles Parker calls the whole affair “Big Week.” Said Parker this week, “The Citadel and West Virginia are much stronger this year than last and we will have to wrestle mighty well to stay on the mat with either team.” After an opening victory over Pfeiffer, 23-11, Davidson dropped a heartbreaker to Duke here, 14-13. The absence of Jim Alexander (177), who is out for the season with a broken elbow, was evident.

TOP SCORERS

At this juncture, Tom Wright (123) and Ed Peel (130), both sophomores, are tied for top spot in Wildcat scoring with 12 points each. The lone senior on the squad—Cliff Thompson—has 11. Davidson won four events in the Carolina match: Tom Wright drew with Lendon, Ed Peel pinned Willhoit in 4:44, Ben McCoy (147) defeated Gilmore, 5-0, Butch LeDoyen pinned Lowery in 5:44, and Cliff Thompson defeated Slover, 8-2.

Citadel Picked To Top Riflers Here

Coach Jim McCurry, whose rifle team has won three of its first five matches, expects defeat in tomorrow's clash with The Citadel here. “The Bulldogs normally shoot eight or nine men in the 280's. We have only three 280-shooters at best,” he said. Davidson travels to Wofford next Friday for a three-way match with Wofford and P.C.

I-F Cage Action Is Delayed

The Intramural Athletic Council Wednesday night voted to postpone all basketball games until after the examination period. Pre-Christmas basketball results not yet reported in THE DAVIDSONIAN are as follows: Thursday, Dec. 8 — Kappa Sigs 48, SPE’s 25; SAE’s 49, Pi Kapps, 35. Monday, Dec. 12 — SAEs 52, Pikas 27; Sigma Chis 26, Phi Delts 25; Kappa Sigs 42, Pi Kapps 29; Phi Gams 46, ATO’s 17. Basketball standings, to date, find the Kappa Sigs and SAE’s tied for first place with 20 points each.

‘Cats Seek To Avenge Last Year’s Narrow Loss

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College basketball team, riding a two-game winning streak, travels to Clemson, S. C., tomorrow night to battle the Tigers of Clemson College, and then returns to the Palmetto State Monday night for a game with the Erskine Flying Fleet. On their homecourt Wednesday night, the Wildcats came alive on one of their early-season weak points—free throws. Reaching back for some of that inspiration which made Semi Mintz the NCAA free throw leader in 1957-58, Davidson hit 26 of 29 attempts at the foul line in taking revenge on a reeling William & Mary squad, 54-45. Behind for only fleeting moments early in the first half, the Wildcats put on a semi-freeze for the final 11 minutes of the game and stifled the Indians’ struggling offense. Joe Markee led the scoring drive with 16 points. Bill Jarman had 13. Every player shared in the free throw performance: Markee 6 of 7, Jarman 5 of 6, Jerry Bussell 2 of 2, Danny Carrell 5 of 6, Jim Nuckolls 2 of 2 and Haywood Evans 6 of 6. Davidson committed only eight fouls in grabbing its first Southern Conference victory after four losses, one to William & Mary, 54-49. The Wildcats now are three and seven with 13 games to go.The clash with Clemson shapes up to be a real thriller. Virtually the same Clemson quintet that nipped the ‘Cats in the Charlotte Coliseum last year awaits the vastly improved Wildcat cagers, seeking revenge for last year's 66-60 heartbreaker. Like Davidson, Clemson lacks an outstanding big man, and consequently relies on speed, good ball handling, and accurate shooting. The best example of the above characteristics is the Tigers’ All-Conference guard, “Choppy” Patterson, a real sharpshooter, whom the ‘Cats must contain if they expect to maintain a clean record against Atlantic Coast Conference opposition. Erskine, another Catawba, is a team the ‘Cats should beat. However, they defeated Davidson twice last year, and must not be taken lightly.

Prior to the Christmas holidays, the 'Cats dropped games to VPI, 105-59; Catawba, 62-58; William & Mary, 54-49; and Furman, 61-52. During the holidays Coach Lefty Driesell and his cagers journeyed to Laurel, Miss., for the Laurel Invitational Tournament. In the first game, East Tennessee State downed the hustling Wildcats, 83-71, who bounced back the next night to drub North Texas State, 72-59, ending a seven-game Davidson losing streak. In the tournament, the ‘Cats seemed to find the scoring punch they had been lacking. They averaged 71.5 points a game, due mainly to the fine offensive show by Joe Markee, who made the All-Tournament squad. 

Markee and forward Jim Nuckolls were elected co-captains. Then, just after the North Texas State encounter, Markee was named to the All-Tourney team. He collected 30 rebounds during the two nights and had 36 points. Though he is equally effective on defense, he leads the Wildcats in scoring with 146 points in ten games, or a 14.6 average. His latest effort netted 16 points as Davidson whipped William & Mary here Wednesday. Markee's shooting form dazzled the fans in Laurel, Miss. He leaps high before getting his shot off, lifting himself above the defenders, and lets the ball drip off his fingertips. He hasn't been blocked on an outside jumper all season.

The ‘Cat rookies met their second defeat in a 90-77 loss to the University of South Carolina December 17. Frosh victories have been scored over the Furman freshmen in a 71-68 match, and over an outclassed Wingate by a 72-60 tally. Terry Holland, 6-7 center, carried a losing load with 30 points, including 12 field goals. He was the game’s leading scorer, as South Carolina put five players in double scoring figures. Davidson’s Lyman Dillon netted 13 points. The Kittens trailed 41-32 at halftime. They hit 21 of 29 foul shots. Hunt looks for Jerry Trammell and Mike Payne to keep improving the board strength and expects “a couple of 40-point games” from Terry Holland. He spoke highly of Lyman Dillon, brightly anticipating bigger things from him. Hunt also announced that Bill Beerman has received a sidelining shoulder injury. Present plans call for Ben Cox to fill in Beerman’s position.

Tonight the Wildkittens traveled to Wingate for a re-encounter with the junior college Bulldogs. The freshmen with a consistent high-scoring laurels. Terry Holland, Lyman Dillon, Bill Beerman, Howard Arbuckle have all claimed the honor thus far. Coach Joe Hunt tabs his team “a good, hard-working group. Overall,” he said, “they are doing a real good job and should have a good season.”

However, the ‘Cats snapped back with an upset via powerful North Carolina, 23-10. Their performance shocked everyone, Parker included. A big part of the victory belonged to the sophomores, with whom Parker rested his wrestling case before the season.

Next week's opponents present a gala array of talent. In overall standings, including flickerball, wrestling, and swimming, the SAE’s lead the second-place KA's by almost 100 points. The complete standings: SAE’s (wrestling champs) 391, KA’s (swimming champs) 294, Phi Delts 285, Betas 269, Kappa Sigs (flickerball champs) 262, Phi Gams 243, Sigma Chis 232, SPE’s 214, Pi Kapps 211, ATO’s 173, Pikas 161, Independents 150, and Sigma Nus 131.

The Wildcat swimming team resumes its schedule after the holiday break here at Davidson facing The Citadel on Friday and William and Mary on Saturday. Each meet will start at 4:00 p.m. in Johnston Gymnasium. In The Citadel Meet, the Cats will be facing one of the top contenders for the conference championship. Says Coach Dwight Shoe, “Those boys really have a team this year and are strong all the way down the line.” Commenting on William and Mary, Shoe says, “This should be a good meet, they are strong in their distance events and in diving but are not particularly well-balanced. Getting back into top form after the holidays will be our biggest problem.”

Before vacation, the Wildcats ran up a two and one record in three meets. Davidson beat Clemson, 61-34, and South Carolina, 63-31, before falling to a powerful V.M.I. team here by a 61-36 margin. V.M.I. has won the Southern Conference title for the past four years and is a strong bet to do so again this year. Singled out by Coach Shoe as doing outstanding work were George Gable, Tom Hudgins, and Barry Branch. The latter two have approached previous records that they have set at Davidson.

Also this weekend, the Wildcat freshmen team, winner of one meet in two outings, will face The Citadel. The freshmen have a strong team paced by Buddy Hollenbeck, whom Coach Shoe tags “one of the best swimmers we have had here in recent years.” After the William and Mary meet, Davidson will face V.P.I. at Blacksburg on February 3 before making a swing through Georgia to participate in three meets. The Southern Conference Meet will be held in Ft. Eustis, Va., on March 9.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.