FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1961

STILL PUZZLED BY A LETTER he received from a Winthrop College sophomore with the same box number as his, English
Instructor James R. Gross has not yet sent a reply.

Gregarious Winthrop Girl Flirts With Her Box Mate

The pale blue perfumed envelope Professor James Gross, Instructor in English, pulled out of his post office box a few
weeks ago was addressed to:

Box 631
Davidson College
Davidson, N. C.

He opened it and started reading:

WINTHROP COLLEGE
Tuesday, January 10, 1961

Hi! Time out for your studies and mine for a friendly chat. First, we should get acquainted: I'm a sophomore
at Winthrop College, and for the sake of not knowing your name, I'll call you Dave (for Davidson). There: introductions
are over. Being gregarious, I’ve always been curious to know who has the same box number as mine at your
school—this will be interesting! Since I’m from Florida, I don’t know much about your college; however, I do know it
is a fine Presbyterian school. I know since you're near Charlotte there is no lack for things to do, and
if you are like the rest of us you look forward to those “good times” on the weekend. Since it’s
the time of year when those things called exams descend on us without mercy, here’s wishing you good luck and
that you'll ace them all. Well, I've enjoyed ‘talking to you,” but it’s time now to make the fourth in
bridge. Hoping to hear from you soon.

Winthropy, Miss 631

“She was right about exams,” Gross said. “I had so many papers and tests to grade that I never did
get around to answering it. I read it to my freshman English classes, and my wife enjoyed it, too.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN feature staff spent a half hour on the telephone trying to locate Miss 631. A co-operative young long-distance
operator who frankly admitted that she had no plans for the coming weekend herself, dialed every dormitory at Winthrop College
in pursuit of the mysterious young lady.

“We accept calls for girls, not serial numbers,” the Winthrop matrons rasped.

“Could we speak to her roommate?” the operator asked sweetly. Despite these attempts, the writer could not be found.

“What’s YOUR box number?” the telephone operator whispered after canceling the call. “I hear you Davidson guys are super cool.”

Professor Gross will have the last word in the matter, however. “I think this would make a good assignment for
my freshman classes when we take up letter writing.”

Methodist Fellowship Institutes Sex Class

By KEITH JOHNSON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Pictures of Brigitte Bardot and June Wilkinson decorate the walls of our rooms. Girls are compared, praised, and drooled over
in dormitory bull sessions. But how much do we really know about sex, and are we aware of the moral
issues involved?

These are the questions posed by the Methodist Student Fellowship, and to help find the answers, the Fellowship is conducting
a two-stage program called A Second Look at Sex.

The first stage of this program involved the administering of a Sex Knowledge Inventory exam to interested students. The exam,
testing a person’s familiarity with sex facts, was given by Dr. W. G. Workman on February 3 to a group
consisting mostly of upperclassmen. The results indicate that two-thirds of the students who took the test are above the fiftieth
percentile of students in America.

The second stage of the Second Look at Sex program concerns sexual morality. On February 17, Kenneth Goodson of the
First Methodist Church in Charlotte will present a lecture and discussion on the topic Sexual Morality — Is it a
Religious Issue? On February 24, Judge Willard R. Gatling, from the Mecklenburg Court of Domestic Relations, will talk on “Sexual
Morality — For Human Reasons.” The Second Look at Sex will be concluded by discussions led by Dr. Chapman, a
clinical psychologist and president of the Charlotte Family Life Council. Her topic will be “Sexual Morality — Can the Mind
Stand it Otherwise?”

“No one has been required or advised to withdraw who has earned nine hours and six quality points for the
first semester,” Dean Bailey stated. “Only those students below these levels have been subject to such action.”

COMMITTEE DECIDES

The “nine and six rule” is found in the college's “Regulations For Students.” Under its provisions, all students failing to
meet the standards will either be placed on academic probation or required to leave, the decision being left to the
discretion of the Executive Committee.

Eight students were required to leave following the first semester; two of these had left voluntarily before their cases came
before the committee. An additional 14 were put on probation.

“I wouldn’t say these figures were overly large,” Dean Bailey commented. “There is nothing alarming in dismissing less than one
per cent of the student body (953).”

FIVE SOPHS

Five of the required withdrawals were sophomores, while there were two juniors and one senior. Freshmen are not dismissed at
the end of one semester. However, five freshmen were placed on probation.

Approximately 30 students did not return for the second semester. This number included the eight withdrawals plus transfers, graduates, drop-outs,
and men studying at other schools for the semester only. Registrar F. W. Hengeveld reported that this number was normal.
The usual net difference is a loss of 25, he explained. With the addition of four returning students and one
transfer, the difference is exactly that number.

POSSIBLE MEASURE

Though no formal policy of underachievement is now in effect, Dean Bailey admitted it was not a closed matter. “Several
measures are being considered,” he said.

Covington Plans For Discounts

By ED RUDERT
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Tommy Covington, Student Manager of the College Union Book Store, has announced plans for a purchase discount plan and for
a sale in the near future.

“The plan now being considered involves a printed card which would be given to each student who purchases a book.
Each time he bought another book, his card would be punched. After 20 purchases, he would be entitled to a
discount of an as yet undetermined amount on each further purchase made,” Covington explained.

“We are also planning to have a sale in the near future,” added Covington, “possibly at the end of this
month. This sale would be mostly of books that we now have in stock which have not sold too well.
We will sell these at a reduced rate in order to make room for new orders. All of the orders
we make are for books requested by the professors,” stated Covington. These, however, are not limited to those required for
the professors' courses.

Covington and Bill Moss, the Assistant Manager, said that some profit has been made on the Union Book Store this
year. Inventory has been taken, but the figures have not been corrected yet.

“The rumor that a $2000 profit was made last semester is definitely not true,” said Moss. “Any profit we do
make goes back into the budget for reordering books,” Covington added.

The long-searched-for name for the book store has still not yet been determined. The contest held early last semester did
not yield a satisfactory result.failed to provide a satisfactory name. Possibilities are under consideration now, and the managers hope to
announce something definite on this subject soon. Covington and Moss said that it would be hard to cite the single
book that ranks as “best seller” in the Union Book Store. However, they mentioned the popularity of the poems of
Archibald MacLeish, “J.B.” by MacLeish, the College Outline Series books, and many of the Modern Library Series volumes.

BOOK-OF-THE-YEAR ON SALE NOW AT REDUCED PRICES
Exodus (paperback) 75¢
Exodus (hardback) reduced from $4.50 to $3.75
READ LEON URIS’ BEST-SELLER
Available At The Union Desk

Bailey Explains Policy On ‘Underachievement’
There is no program or policy for combatting “underachievement” in use by the college at this time. Dean of Students
John C. Bailey, Jr. emphasized the non-existence of any such policy this week in response to a growing student misconception.
“All of us who feel we should move in that general direction are thinking about it informally, but there is
no formal study. There is no systematic program for underachievers. The idea is sound, but must be studied carefully. Such
a program could do much injustice.” Dean Bailey pointed out that the only approximation to such a program now at
Davidson is consultations with students and parents, which are a regular activity of the dean’s office.

Diplomat Speaks In Chapel Tuesday
Dr. Frank Porter Graham, official in the United Nations and past president of the University of North Carolina will speak
at assembly on Tuesday, Feb. 14. Dr. Graham will arrive on Monday, and will be available for informal discussion after
assembly with students and faculty members. Dr. Graham, who is presently a negotiator for the U. N., has a long
record for service both in the United States and the U. N. Serving in the state department, Dr. Graham has
been the chairman of the National Advisory Council on Social Security, a member of a committee on Civil Rights and
a member of the National War Labor Board. In the U. N. Dr. Graham has served as counselor and representative
on numerous controversial issues. He has been the U. N. representative for the India and Pakistan dispute and a member
of the U. N. committee of Good Offices for the Dutch and Indonesia Dispute. In addition to his formal duties
in the state department and the U. N., Dr. Graham has served as an appointed senator in an interim period.

After Vespers Open Houses
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Elliott
Frey
Ghigo
Horton
Lester
Lord
McGeachy
Minter
Pierce
Plott
Rhodes
Schenck
Smith
Threlkeld

Criticisms Bring Changes In Mass Lecture Program
Heads of the physics and psychology departments gave only general approval to the mass lecture and discussion group programs initiated
last semester in evaluations for THE DAVIDSONIAN this week. Dr. W. G. Workman indicated that several changes were being made
in the psychology program this semester, because the department was dissatisfied with the effectiveness of the system, especially in the
discussion groups. The physics program is working out quite successfully, though, according to Dr. C. J. Pietenpol. However, he felt
he could not view the program objectively and welcomed any student comment in improving the classes. Pietenpol commented that he
had always taught under this system before he came to Davidson.

Three Kappa Sigs Receive Awards
The national headquarters of Kappa Sigma fraternity recently announced that three members of the Davidson chapter have been given Leadership
Awards. These awards are distributed on a national basis to recognize those men who have shown exceptional scholastic and leadership
ability. The three members to receive awards are Verner Stanley, Linton Wray, and Jerry Cole. Cole, a member of ODK,
the Honor Court, the Beaver Club, and president of the Interfraternity Council, was awarded a $50 cash award and a
Certificate of Merit. Stanley received a Certificate of Award. He is a member of ODK, the Beaver Club, and is
president of the senior class. Wray, who was given a $50 cash award, is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta,
the Beaver Club, Scabbard and Blade, and the wrestling team.

Questionnaires were provided psychology students who dropped the course following the first semester. Additional information is being gathered from those
who continued and based on this material, Workman and his associates have effected several changes. Only two men will be
doing the lecturing this semester, instead of three, and they will be attempting to improve their mass presentations. Attempts also
are being made to strengthen the discussion groups. Only 56 students of the original 120 are continuing in basic psychology
this semester. However, this drop is not greater than usual, Workman pointed out. Last year 46.7 per cent continued as
compared to 46.3 this year. Workman added that they were disappointed, but not discouraged. He stated the department still believes
this is a good system.

Committee Primes Students For Uris
The Book of the Year committee has scheduled two talks on Palestine and has begun a publicity and book-selling campaign
in preparation for the Feb. 22-23 visit of Leon Uris, author of Exodus. Dr. D. D. Rhodes of the Bible
department, who recently toured the Middle East, will initiate the program by showing slides of his trip. This will supplement
the assembly program Rhodes gave last week. The slides will be shown at 4 p.m. Monday in the Union. Next
Wednesday at 8:15 p.m., Professor Brad Thompson will discuss the recent history of the Israeli state with emphasis on its
establishment in 1947. Joe Robinson, chairman of the committee, indicated that approximately 30 per cent of the cost of the
program will be raised through profits from book sales. Editions of Exodus and Exodus Revisited are being sold to students
and alumni and residents of the Charlotte area. Both Uris and Moshe Leshem, Israeli consul to Atlanta, will have intimate
contact with the student body during their visit, Robinson explained. They will attend classes and also eat at least three
meals with fraternities.

GET A START MIDWINTERS PARTIES
HATTIE’S in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

“FIND THE ANSWER, JIM-AND BRING IT BACK”
When Jim Boardman took his B.S. in Electrical Engineering at Colorado State, there was one idea uppermost in his mind.
He wanted a job in which he could work his way into management via the engineering route. As he puts
it, “I didn’t want to stick with straight engineering all my life.” After talking to eight other organizations Jim joined
The Mountain States Telephone & Telegraph Company. He soon got the kind of action he was looking for. His first
assignment: How best to improve widely scattered rural telephone service all over Colorado—a sticky engineering challenge. He was given a
free hand to work out his own procedures. His boss simply said, “Find the answer, Jim—and bring it back.”

Six months later, Jim turned in his recommendations. His plan was accepted. Next stop: Colorado Springs. Here Jim worked out
a plan to expand telephone facilities for this burgeoning community. This plan, too, is now in operation. Today, at 24,
Jim has an important role in planning where, how much, and what kind of telephone service is needed in the
Denver area. Here’s how Jim puts it: “We get tough assignments—but we also have the freedom to take hold and
do a job. I think the future here is unlimited. If a man wants to do it—it’s there to be
done.”

If you're a guy who can “Find the answer—and bring it back”—you'll want to get with a company where you
have the chance. Visit your Placement Office for literature and additional information.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive and imaginative men we
can possibly find.”
—FAMENICE R. KARRNT, President
American Telephone & Telegraph Co.
