FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SENIORS DAVID ALASRAN AND HUGH BARGER work with the infra-red spectro-photometer in Dr. J. G. Martin's office in the Martin
Science Building. The new experimental equipment was made possible by a grant to Davidson College by Research Corporation, a foundation
which provides means for scientific investigation.

J. G. Martin Awarded Grant For Research

A new grant to aid scientific research has been awarded to Davidson College by Research Corporation, a science foundation. Dr.
James G. Martin, assistant professor of chemistry, recently received a $3,600 grant to study the “Conformational Stability of 2,2,6,6-Tetrasubstituted Cyclohexyl
Derivatives.” The grant has made possible the purchase of an infra-red spectro-photometer which Martin will use in his research.

“The new equipment measures the amount of absorption of infra-red light and plots this data on paper, permitting rapid characterization
of organic compounds,” Martin said. Seniors David Alasran and Hugh Barger are now working with Martin on the research project.

According to Martin, Research Corporation specializes in helping people who are just starting professional teaching. Martin, a graduate of Davidson
in 1957, joined the Chemistry Department this semester after fulfilling the requirements for his Doctor of Chemistry degree at Princeton
in 1960.

A recent release from the foundation states that “unrestricted grants made by Research Corporation are put at the disposal of
exceptionally promising young scientists. Grants-in-aid for the natural sciences are used to purchase experimental equipment and supplies and for fellowship
stipends on research chosen by individual scientists.”

More than 65 colleges and universities in 32 states have also received recent Research Corporation grants amounting to approximately $400,000.
A total of 95 individual grants have been announced by the foundation for fundamental scientific studies at institutions in Canada,
Panama, Haiti, and India as well as the United States. Twenty of the current grants are unrestricted, and the remainder
were awarded for specific research projects in the natural sciences.

The foundation was established in 1912 by the American inventor-teacher-scientist, Frederick Gardner Cottrell. About $15 million in subsequent grants have
aided the research of some 3,000 scientists. Research Corporation also administers the Williams-Waterman Fund for the combat of dietary diseases
and the Brown-Hazen Fund for research in biochemistry, microbiology, and immunology.

Fate Of Handbook Remains Uncertain

The Publications Board is awaiting action by the Student Council on making The Wildcat Handbook a student body publication. The
YMCA terminated its sponsorship of the publication last week. The Student Council has yet to make certain constitutional changes necessary
for the turnover of the handbook. Certain mechanical problems, especially that of how to select an editor for the publication,
still have not been worked out.

The Publications Board plans to meet right after exam period to start working on the plans for content and publication,
provided the Student Council action has been taken by that time. Tentative plans for the operation of the handbook include
setting up a student-faculty committee, including a Student Council member, a representative of the dean’s office, and a person from
the Y, to handle the publication. There is also a proposal that the publication be placed largely in administration hands
when the editor leaves for the summer. In this way the actual printing can be handled by the administration, and
the confusion of having an absent person in charge of completing the content will be eliminated.

The Student-Faculty Conference Committee had recommended that the handbook remain a student publication and that it be turned over to
the Publications Board, following action initiated by the Y last June.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brown
Griffin
Moore
Currie
Kelton
Scott
Daggy
Lilly
Stroud
Fleming
Lloyd
Tucker
Gable
Marrotte
Watts
J. G. Martin
Whittle

Schnewlin: Switzerland Is Land Of Peaceful Stability

By UVELI SCHNEWLIN
Richardson Scholar

I am not surprised that all Americans who have been to Switzerland are impressed with its beauty. I myself admire
the scenery of many regions again and again when I go out for mountain-climbing and skiing. But I think that
the Swiss can be proud of their country for other reasons. Since the 13th century, Switzerland has developed into a
small country that can stand on its own and has given an example for peaceful stability.

22 CANTONS

The area of Switzerland is 16,000 square miles, divided into 22 cantons populated by about five million people. There are
three main geographical parts: the Jura (a mountain range in the West), the hilly midlands with woods and lakes, and
the Alps. Just as the regions are varied, so are the people. It seems to me that it is characteristic
for Switzerland to bring all different...

Five Juniors Leave Campus For Studies

Five juniors are taking a leave of absence from Davidson during the second semester to pursue studies in Europe and
in Washington, D.C. George Trask, Phil Arnold, and Robert Davidson are going abroad, while Al Edgar and Bill Ambrose are
participating in the school’s Washington Semester program.

Trask and Arnold are entering a program under the auspices of the Institute of European Studies, which is sponsoring some
113 students from 75 schools across the nation. They will be attending the University of Vienna and living in private
homes. The program offered at the university is taught in English and combines the students’ studies with three study tours
on the continent.

Davidson is undertaking work on his own at the University of Geneva, where he will live in an international students’
boarding house. He plans to take several courses of European history and French grammar, conversation, and composition classes.

The American University sponsors the Washington Semester in working agreement with schools throughout the country. Ambrose and Edgar will begin
work there Jan. 31. During the semester they will have a six-hour seminar course in national government. It consists of
a three-hour seminar and three hours on a paper concerning some phase of the government.

DRIVE-IN THEATRE

Held Over!
THU — FRI — SAT ONLY
NO ONE UNDER 16 YRS WILL BE ADMITTED

Photographed at a REAL NUDIST PARK
OPENS 6:30
1st SHOW at 7:00

Nothing about the human body is vulgar or immoral — Evil is in the mindis vulgar immoral — Evil is
in the - In Color - Jane Russell ferences and contrasts into harmony by compromising. There are four official languages:
German (“Swiss German”)

PAGE FOUR

Forgotten Formal Shirt: Who’s Wearing It Now?
By ED RUDERT
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The Davidson College Laundry will sell you the shirt off your friend's back. Just mention your size, and the laundry
will sell you a neatly-wrapped white formal shirt for less than the cost of having a suit cleaned. If you
forgot to pick up your dress shirt the last time you had it laundered, anybody in town might be wearing
it now. Few people in the college community know anything about this sideline business. Actually, the enterprise is intended to
alleviate a bothersome situation brought on by students themselves.

“I'd almost give them away to get rid of them,” said Laundry Manager C. W. Stacks about the stacks of
tux shirts he has accumulated during the past few years. “These are shirts that have been left here by boys
who aren't here anymore. We used to charge 25 cents extra to launder those shirts because they took more work
and had to be packaged separately. Boys would wear them once and leave them at the laundry till they needed
them again. Then they would forget about them until after they had gone on from school. We were stuck with
the shirts.

“About four years ago,” he continued, “when Sam Spencer was dean of students, I talked to him about it, and
he wrote about 75 former students asking them where we could send their shirts. I think we heard from about
three of them.”

Stacks walked over to the place where the shirts are bundled up according to neck and sleeve sizes. At first
estimating the number of shirts to be 50 or 60, he re-examined the bundles and said, “No, there must be
at least 150 here.

“I've been selling these shirts for a dollar to anybody that wants them, but I'll be willing to cut them
down to 50 cents if it'll help get rid of them now that more people are going to know about
them.

“All of these shirts have been here at least two years, some of them four or five, but a lot
of them are shirts that haven't been worn and laundered but once,” he said, unwrapping a Manhattan that looked brand
new except for the starch. “We've eliminated this shirt this year. We don’t charge extra to clean dress shirts anymore.
We put them in boxes and set them out with the rest of the laundry.”

Dr. Moore Speaks At Sunday Vespers

Dr. Ansley C. Moore, president of St. Andrews Presbyterian College, will speak at vespers services this Sunday.

Dr. Moore graduated from Emory University and the University of Chicago, and has served as a Presbyterian minister in Alabama,
Florida, and Pennsylvania. For six years while he was in Pennsylvania he wrote a weekly article for the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph.
He has also been a correspondent for the Christian Science Magazine. “The Man Bearing The Cross” will be the topic
for Dr. Moore's sermon.

This will be the last required vesper service of the semester. The next vesper program will be held on Feb.
5, and the guest speaker will be President James A. Jones of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va.

Miss Fannie Cashion rings up 50 cents as she sells an unclaimed white formal shirt to a student. The College
Laundry has more than 150 second-hand tux shirts, in all sizes and styles, which were left there by students in
past years.

“IT’S HERE-IF YOU WANT TO WORK FOR IT”

Even before Ron Spetrino received his engineering degree from Case he had good job offers from six companies. He joined
The Ohio Bell Telephone Company — his reason: “I was convinced an engineer could go further here — if he
was willing to work for it.”

As soon as Ron got his feet on the ground in telephone engineering, he was tapped for a tough assignment.
The job — to engineer switching equipment modifications needed to prepare Cleveland for nationwide customer dialing of long-distance calls. Ron
wrapped it up in five months, and found he had earned a shot at another tough assignment. In this job
Ron helped engineer a completely new long-distance switching center for Cleveland. This switching center connected Cleveland with the nationwide customer
dialing network. It was about a year later that Ron put the finishing touches on the specs for this $1,600,000
project.

Today, as a Supervising Engineer, Ron heads a staff of five engineers and is responsible for telephone switching in much
of the greater Cleveland area. He supervises the design and purchase of $3 million worth of equipment a year. And
even more important, he is charged with developing the technical and managerial skills of his staff.

Ron knows what he’s talking about when he says, “In this business you have to do more than a good
job. We expect a man to be a self-developer. We expect him to take responsibility from his first day on
the job and think for himself. You don’t get ahead around here by just doing time.”

If you want a job in which you're given every chance to prove yourself, and real responsibility right from the
start — you'll want to see your Placement Office for further information.

“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive and imaginative men we
can possibly find.”
Faspsnice R. Karret, President
American Telephone & Telegraph Co.
