SHAFT LETTERS IN ALL VARIETIES (See Page Two) VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1961 The
News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College WILDCATS SEEK HOMECOMING WIN (See Page Three) NUMBER FIVE Pulchritude Floods Dry Campus;
Girls Grace Galliards And Game Debate Squads Open Season The Davidson freshmen debaters will open their schedule on Saturday, October
21, with a meet against the University of North Carolina novices. Dick Bates, Conrad Shumadine, Bill Rule, and Paxton Wray
will represent Davidson, with Austin Letson making the trip to Chapel Hill as alternate. Dr. Joseph T. Drake, the Debating
coach, predicts that the Freshmen will “show up well” at U.N.C., and at the Novice Tournament scheduled for November 3
and 4 in Wake Forest. If the boys fulfill his expectations in the two contests, Drake suggests that he might
“dissolve the Novice team, and let them compete with the upperclassmen for positions on the Varsity at other tournaments.” Spears
And Evans To Speak Sunday Dr. R. Wright Spears, president of Columbia College in Columbia, S. C., will speak to
upperclassmen at vespers on Sunday, October 10, in the College Church. Dr. Spears, a native South Carolinian, attended Wofford College
and Duke University. Dr. Spears is a past president of the South Carolina Association of Colleges and has been president
of Columbia College for the past ten years. Speaking at the Freshmen Vespers the same evening, will be the Reverend
John B. Evans, former professor of Bible at Davidson. Evans is a graduate of Davidson and lettered in wrestling while
here. He did his graduate work at Yale and the University of Edinburgh. In 1960, Evans became minister of the
First Presbyterian Church of Auburn, Ala. The Varsity opens its schedule with a three-way warm-up debate with Gardner-Webb and Lenoir-Rhyne
in Boiling Springs on Oct. 20. The teams will be composed of the upperclassmen debaters who are ready at that
time. From these men will be chosen Davidson’s representatives for the Tau Kappa Alpha Regional Tournament at Duke on Nov.
17 and 18. Tentative plans after the Regional include meets at Appalachian State at the end of November, Florida State
in mid-February, and either Lenoir-Rhyne or Carson-Newman in the early Spring. Drake says that he expects “a far better season
than we had last year.” Ruth Assumes Feature Editorship THE DAVIDSONIAN announces the appointment of Bill Ruth to the position
of feature editor replacing Rick von Unwerth, who has been called into active duty by the Army. Von Unwerth, a
history major from Augusta, Ga., leaves Davidson for a one-year tour of duty with the Combat Engineer Corps located at
Fort Campbell, Ky. His successor, Bill Ruth, moves up from feature writer to his present position. A sophomore pre-med student,
Ruth makes his home in Jacksonville, Fla. McLean Takes Over Alumni Presidency Archie W. McLean will be installed as the
new alumni president during halftime of Saturday's football game. He will take office in a ceremony conducted by college President
D. G. Martin on the 50-yard line. McLean will succeed James Pinkney, ‘27, of Coral Gables, Florida. Other newly-elected officers
include president-elect Lyndon Foscue, ‘20, and vice presidents Fred L. Smyre, ‘34, and William A. White, ‘52. BANK PRESIDENT The
new president graduated from Davidson in the class of 1931 and has been a very active alumnus since then. While
at Davidson, McLean, a SAE, was varsity football manager, and a member of the YMCA Cabinet and the Glee Club.
After graduating, McLean entered the banking profession. At present he is president of Planter’s National Bank and Trust Company in
Rocky Mount. In addition to being active in alumni work where he has been serving as co-chairman of the Living
Endowment Committee, McLean is also active in church and civic organizations. He has served as a director of the U.
S. Chamber of Commerce and is now an elder in the First Presbyterian Church of Rocky Mount. McLean is married
to the former Serene Lee Turnage. They Tryout Results The casts for the two upcoming Vagabond productions, Antigone and A
Midsummer Night's Dream, were released by Professor John Sneden on Wednesday, following tryouts which were held Tuesday night. The lead
roles in Antigone, a play by Jean Anouilh, went to Miss Luckey Husky, a Queens College girl who will portray
Antigone, and to Walter Bost, who earned the role of Creon. Other cast members include Pat Douglas as the Chorus,
Miss Cindy Trobaugh (also from Queens College) as the Nurse, Mrs. Louise Hampton as Ismene, Smith McKeithan as Haemon, and
Bill Trotter as the messenger. In the roles of guards are John Morefield, Neal Bushoven, and Al Edgar. The cast
of A Midsummer Night's Dream will include Pete Myers as Quince, Dan Freedenburg as Bottom, Woody Danenhower as Flute, Bob
Bethel as Starveling, Bill Vermilye as Snout, and John Meincer as Snug. Philostrate will be portrayed by Neal Bushoven, Theseus
by Howard Cornelson, and Hippolyta by Mrs. Kay Gross. Others in the cast include Miss Mary Hopkins, Alan Jones, Kerr
Thompson, and Jan Parpa. A Midsummer Night's Dream will be presented in conjunction with the dedication of the Fine Arts
Building on October 24, 25, and 26, and Antigone will be presented on November 8, 9, and 10. Professor Sneden
told THE DAVIDSONIAN that he is “very pleased” with the casts, and he also announced another in a series of
workshops which will be held next Wednesday night. Professor Sneden invited anyone who is interested to the workshop, and said
that after the demonstrations, those attending may try their hand at making-up a character. Barring death from starvation, illness, and
torment, Davidson’s new, live mascot will be here for at least another ten years. The Floridian wildcat, which arrived last
Saturday from Charlotte, is two to five years old, and has a life span of about 15 years. According to
Head Cheerleader Joe Martin, the one most concerned with the wildcat’s future, the beast is just beginning to recover from
the rigors of travel and over-attention. “It weighs about 15 pounds now, but he’s gaining fast,” said Martin. “Until Monday
night, Concert In German Baritone soloist Ross Rosazza will present aConcert at Hodson Hall in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building,
Friday, October 20, at 8:15 p.m. The concert will consist entirely of a German Romantic song cycle, “Die Schöne Müllerin,”
written by Wilhelm Müller and set to music by Franz Schubert. Although Mr. Rosazza sings in German, an English translation
of the cycle will be provided for the audience.

“Die Schöne Müllerin” will be the first song cycle ever presented at Davidson College. The song cycle is made up
of several sub-cycles, the varying moods of which tie in with the central theme. Mr. Rosazza received the major part
of his musical education in America at the Westminster Choir College, where he was a soloist.

His Paris debut in May, 1950, made a most excellent impression both vocally and musically in a wide variety of
styles. Admittance to the Davidson concert will be free; those attending are requested to wear a coat and tie.

Allocations Given

A student Activity Fee to seven student organizations were announced Tuesday by the Finance Committee. There were no new areas
of expenditure, and the respective percentage cuts of the budget were virtually the same as those last year. The total
for this year was $5,347; to Scripts and Pranks, $7,800. The Artist Series received $4,598. Scripts ‘n Pranks got $1,950,
the Student Council was allocated $265, and the debating team, $255. The Dramatics group, which now is partially subsidized directly
by the college, will receive $477 from the fund for this year.

The Union is providing most of the food for the cat, with the cheerleaders helping out where necessary. Cliff Loudermilk,
a senior, has volunteered to be the nursemaid. This will mean feeding him once a day and keeping his cage
clean. The cat itself cost $35.00, not including the $10.00 shipping fee. Now, a traveling cage, a trailer, and pen
are being built which will cost a total of about $175. Martin hopes to raise this money largely through student
contributions. Some contributions were taken after chapel yesterday from students. A special box will be displayed at the game tomorrow
for alumni and any other contributors. The cage and trailer will be ready by the next out-of-town football game. As
soon as the pen is ready, the wildcat will be installed on the campus between the Union and Duke. Said
Martin, “We might even charge admission to see him eat live chickens and rats.”

The biggest problem centered around the wildcat is to keep students and the wildcat out of each other’s hair. “He’s
hurt his paw grabbing at a stick, and gotten splinters in his tongue from biting one,” said Martin. “We're keeping
him on the patio of the Union now, but we'll probably have to move him to the basement of Chambers
after Homecoming weekend. It may take a while before people begin to realize that he can reach two feet out
of his cage.”

Thousands To Watch PC - Davidson Clash

Over 800 versions of beauty arrived today on campus to help an equal number of eager males celebrate Davidson’s 1961
Homecoming. The Alumni Office reported that it expects “several thousand” alumni and their families for Saturday’s Homecoming activities. A giant
Pep Rally kicked off this year's Homecoming celebration last night at 9:30. The freshmen, led by the Pep Band, marched
through the upper-class dorms to a huge bonfire on the vacant lot across from the Beta Theta Pi house. Joe
Martin and his cheerleaders led the student body around the bonfire in traditional college yells and a general “whooping up”
of the Davidson fighting spirit.

Students, their dates, and guests will find a full schedule of events this weekend, beginning tonight at 8:00 with the
first Artist Series program of the year. A soccer game originally scheduled for this afternoon was called off because Carson-Newman,
the would-be opponent, could not field enough players for the game. The residents of Belk and Richardson dormitories forfeited their
rooms this afternoon at 2:30 to the 600 girls who are to be housed there during the weekend. Normally 422
students occupy Belk and Richardson. Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories, announced that the dates have also taken up
most of the facilities in the Guest House, homes of Davidson residents, and surrounding motels. Because of the North Carolina
Trade Fair and the National 400 at Charlotte Motor Speedway track Sunday, accommodations in Charlotte were hard to find for
visiting alumni and dates.

The Mitchell-Ruff Trio, a modern jazz combination of piano, bass, French horn, and drums, initiates this year’s Artist Series with
a concert in Chambers auditorium at 8:00 tonight. Following the concert, the IFC is sponsoring a formal dance in Johnston
Gymnasium featuring Sam Donahue and the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra. At the dance tonight there will be a figure during intermission
composed of the twelve fraternity presidents, the IFC representatives, and their dates. After the dances Friday and Saturday nights, the
various fraternities will have their usual after-parties. The Union, in conjunction with the YMCA, will sponsor two swimming-dancing after-parties at
the pool in the gymnasium from 12 midnight until 5 a.m. Saturday morning and from 12 midnight until 3 a.m.
Sunday morning. There will be elaborate decorations, a combo, and a lifeguard.

Saturday morning from 11:00 to 12:00 a.m. there will be a judging of the fraternity Homecoming decorations around Patterson Court.
The fraternity with the best display will be awarded a trophy plus $15 in cash. The second and third place
entries will be awarded $10 and $5 respectively. Judges will be Dr. Clark, Mr. Stroud, and Mrs. Moore. The weekend's
festivities will (Continued on page four)

Mascot Recovers From Rigors Of Travel

BY WILLIAM WALKER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Cure Cat's Name - Neurosis

The Wildcat needs a name! When the new mascot makes his debut tomorrow in Richardson Stadium, he will be merely
“it,” the wildcat. Recognizing the damage this will cause to his personality (who wants to remain nameless?), THE DAVIDSONIAN is
sponsoring a “Name the Mascot” contest. We invite students, dates, alumni—anyone in a name-christening mood—to submit suggestions to the paper
before 7 p.m. Tuesday, Oct. 17. They should be mailed to the paper, Box 218, or given to Editor David
Jordan. A committee composed of the editors, President D. Grier Martin, and Head Cheerleader Joe Martin will select the winner.
The name will be announced in next week’s DAVIDSONIAN and our wildcat will be christened at Saturday’s “Wildcat Day” game.
Incidentally, $5 will go to the person submitting the winning name!
