Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials are by the Editor)

Humanities Major And His Science

Last week, THE DAVIDSONIAN lamented the growing schism between science and the humanities. We spoke particularly in relation to the pre-med and science major at Davidson. However, the situation with the humanities major is equally a cause for concern. The humanities major leaves Davidson without a proper science background in what is truly an age of science. He too, is falling short of the goal of the desirable liberal arts education.

Just as the science major needs some program through which he can derive an appreciation for the interrelationship of all ideas and culture, the humanities major likewise needs such a knowledge and appreciation in the realm of science. He is not presently getting this. Except for an occasional rarity, the non-science major graduates with only one science course at Davidson, that one being required. In most cases, he took that same science in high school, and perhaps one other. Even allowing for outstanding high school courses, unjustified in many cases, he has a weak background. Of the three major sciences, he has in all likelihood never taken at least one and has only a very passing acquaintance with a second.

He does get one at Davidson. But even here, the course is insufficient. He sits in the same classroom with those students planning to continue in science, and understandably, the course is directed to the latter. The professor must furnish them with the foundation necessary for advanced courses. There is much technical knowledge, many details—all of which are necessary for the continuing science student, but NOT for the individual who will never take another science course. Too frequently, the course becomes a real chore and bore for him. He is only too happy when he has completed his requirement and proceeds to forget all the details he will never have occasion to use. Tragically, he is still without an acceptable knowledge of the sciences or appreciation of their value.

Is there any solution to the problem? We believe so, and in the remaining weeks of this spring and continuing next fall, THE DAVIDSONIAN intends to explore possible solutions with the hope of arriving at some suitable concrete suggestions. We will talk with professors, contact other schools and be receptive to any suggestions and aid. There are already several possibilities: an integrated course in the sciences; a two-year program requiring one course in a physical science and one in a natural science; putting non-science majors in special sections of first-year courses—perhaps recent changes in the basic math course might serve as a guide. There also might be advantages in a history of science course, or a philosophy of science. We have no claims to a sure-fire solution at present. But we hope to find an acceptable one which warrants consideration and action by the faculty.

The “Word” Is Atrocious

“The ‘word’ is APPROPRIATE,” said the promotional literature, a bit ungrammatically. “Yes, it is appropriate that the handsome, new Music and Fine Arts Building proposed for Davidson College should bear the name of John R. Cunningham...” Now the “word” is being made bricks and mortar, glass and steel—but mostly bricks. Dr. Cunningham's monument looks more atrocious than appropriate.

The college's literature, designed to interest the wealthy in underwriting the building’s $650,000 price tag, went into rhapsodic praise about the potentialities of the structure: “The Music and Art Center will be an additional instructional facility and yet it will be a place of singular beauty... beautiful in itself and dedicated to beauty as expressed in music, drama, and all the arts.” It will be “the final structure to make the Old Quadrangle one of the most attractive and useful on any campus... anywhere.”

Phooey. As the Fine Arts Building has been taking shape, we’ve watched busy workmen building blank brick walls, first on the street side, then on the back. Finally, they built the high brick spine that juts out on both sides of the center section. Yet this is the building planned to teach students “good design, industrial or otherwise, and good architecture.”

We recall the long planning stages, when everyone and his uncle threw in suggestions for the building. In an effort to crowd everything into one structure, the architect had to cut corners. As a result:
—The “intimate” theater is exactly that: 288 seats are crowded into a room not as deep as the large lecture room in the Dana building.
—The “spacious exhibition halls” are less than 11 feet wide—not wide enough for a spectator to get a good perspective on a large painting.
—There are no doors large enough to get a pre-built backdrop into the theatre.
—The art studios, supposed to take advantage of daylight, are on the east side of the building, and will get sun only in the early morning.
—High brick walls were needed to mask heating and air-conditioning ducts, which, had the building been a bit larger, could have been included inside.
—Visiting actors and actresses will have to use classrooms as dressing rooms—there was no room for separate dressing facilities.

But the “living room for Davidsonians” is going up ahead of schedule. By September we will have spent our $650,000 for much-needed facilities. And the John R. Cunningham Music and Fine Arts building will stand as a memorial to compromise and penny-pinching. We weren’t asking for a $2.5 million arts center; but we wish a little bit more attention had been paid to details.

D. B. S.

David Jordan
Gene Adcock

Feature Editor — Rick von Unwerth
Photographers — Jerry Abernethy, Marty Lafferty, Bill Wyche
Advertising Manager — Ed Willer
Circulation Manager — Jimmy Platt
Assistant Bus. Manager — Rick Finch

A Few Don’t Make It

By Howell Patterson

Hits HUAC, Questions Abolition Film

BY DR. E. F. PATTERSON

Several questions might be asked about le affaire Operation Abolition. One, Does the Communist Party of the United States have the right, legal or otherwise, to organize a demonstration against the House Un-American Activities Committee (hereafter referred to as HUAC)? Two, does HUAC have the right, legal or otherwise, to prepare or endorse a film in an effort to discredit opposition to the Committee? The answer to these questions is obviously, YES.

NEXT QUESTION

The next question is, did the Communist Party of the U. S., or individual members thereof, organize or seize control and direction of the student demonstration against HUAC in San Francisco? The answer given to this question by numerous objective observers of all shades of political and religious beliefs is unequivocally, NO!

The next question is: Is HUAC bound by high standards of truth, honor and concern for basic human rights in the preparation of the film, or does the end justify the means, and therefore HUAC can use the same low standards of which it accuses the Communists of using? This of course, is not a question of fact, but one of values, and the answer depends largely on one’s philosophy. I submit that if the answer stems from our finest and best philosophical, political and religious principles, HUAC would be expected to adhere to the highest standards of truth and honor.

NO HONOR

The next question is, does the film, Operation Abolition, reflect truth, honor and decency? The answer to this, again coming from numerous objective observers reflecting all shades of political and religious beliefs, is an equally unequivocal, NO.

The next question is, why would members of Congress stoop so low? To one who has followed the history of HUAC, the answer to this question is clear. There was considerable evidence two or three years ago that the sins of HUAC were rapidly catching up with it.

CONGRESSMEN FEAR

Many thought that either the Supreme Court or Congress would soon curb its excesses or abolish it. Le affaire Operation Abolition so put fear in the hearts of Congressmen that only six voted to eliminate HUAC’s appropriation in the current Congress. Mr. Dooley said that “the Supreme Court follows the election returns,” and the recent 5 to 4 decision upholding contempt proceedings against Frank Wilkinson is evidence of Mr. Dooley’s keen insight. Mr. Justice Black in a dissent stated: “I think it clear that this case involves nothing more or less than an attempt by HUAC to use the contempt power of the House as a weapon against those who dare to criticize it.”

Methinks le affaire Operation Abolition is nothing more or less than an attempt by HUAC to brand in the eyes of the public all who criticize it as Communists.

DUTY

The last question is, what is the duty of the citizen truly concerned with theFuture of democracy in the United States? The answer to this question is, he should protest vigorously and often. Victor Gollanez has written: “Anything done in a democratic country is done in your name: because, unless you protest, it is as if you were doing it in your own person: and because a man who does something to another without facing what it is, has failed to learn the first rudiments of decent living.” And Abraham Lincoln said: “To sin by silence when they should protest makes cowards out of men.” Goethe wrote that every generation must win the battle for freedom, and Davidson College students who protest the distortions of the film can be proud of their part in helping win the current battle.

Salley Charges Biased Bulletin

Dear Editor:

This is perhaps too sober a letter for a weekend not traditionally given over to sobriety. However, one occasionally wonders if there is ever a weekend when Davidson is sober. To wit, it seems Davidson has a new editorial voice. Monday’s chapel announcement sheet, No. 51, ran a sub- the expose of the ROTC Department’s own fine film festival, “Operation Abolition.” “This film is a distortion of the San Francisco student riots” followed the rather suggestive caption “BRAINWASHING.”

It also seems our new herald of American Civil Liberties has taken his style from Robert W. Moon's column and a half in the Christian Century for January 4, 1961, whose argument, like that of editorials in the Harvard Crimson and the Washington Post stems from a statement of the sheriff of San Francisco County—“There was no act of physical aggression on the part of the students”—taken in good faith from Paul Jacob's reporting in the Reporter Magazine for November 24, 1960.

With three so commanding publications basing their editorial opinion on the same source, the Church League of America (offices in Wheaton, IL) thought it would be interesting to see upon what The Reporter based its opinion. It was. Sheriff Matthew C. Carberry put himself on record as being on the scene Thursday and Friday until a luncheon conference with chairman Willis. “The disorder took place during luncheon and I was in no position to know anything about them. I did not make that statement.”

And our editor's authority seems to stem from the booklet “Operation Abolition,” compiled at Moon's urgence and printed by the NCC, but “not to be construed as reflecting the attitudes or position of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the United States of America.” It is a fair question to ask whether this is responsible journalism on the part of No. 51's editor. It is also fair to ask just who is brainwashing whom, though perhaps it was just a tough weekend.

I really can see nothing wrong with introducing an element of opinion into our non-partisan announcement sheet, I suppose, except that it is biased against my point of view—which view is nothing so richly dramatic as claiming HUAC to be the savior of a world attacked by a radical National Council of Churches, but simply a plea not to substitute opinion, whether of eminent clergy or of undergraduate letter writers, for fact in the many questions where facts are applicable and readily obtainable. But this demands more than a weekly glance at the Charlotte Observer and the up-and-coming Announcements.

It means reading the Nation and the National Guardian as well as National Review and Human Events, and even some reports of “nasty” congressional committees; and for us it also means having an educational end beyond the accumulation of semester hours and quality points—in short, it demands that we practice the liberty we wish to preserve.

It would amuse me if it were not so tragic to see students who in their sophistication, will howl down the Bible literalist, yet will gird their loins and face issues of utmost concern, standing resolutely on one magazine’s opinion. An editor has every right to believe what he will, but he does not have the right to profess himself a champion of unrestricted truth unless he is. If we wake up one morning to find the Bill of Rights efficiently torn up and thrown in our faces it will be the doings not of the bearded, wild-eyed man standing on a soap box in the slums, a bomb in one hand, a red flag in the other, shouting “Kommes the Revolution,” nor of the julep-sipping isolationist, but of precisely this kind of blurry-eyed editor and of his none-too-sober (i.e. uninformed) public.

Dudley Salley

Frolics Frails Fret Through The Mails

Converse College
May 1, 1961

Dear Anne,

I thought I had been to all the top drawer schools until I went to Davidson College. Dabney Longstreet (of the upper state Longstreets, you remember Suzy Longstreet from camp) asked me up. Dabney is president of the school social committee, and of course was mighty busy much of the weekend, but we still had a wonderful time. He was the gracious and obliging gentleman one would expect a Longstreet to be. I wrote home to MaMa and discovered that she knew Dabney’s MaMa well as both of them are chief state U. D. C. committeewomen. It’s surprising that I haven’t seen the Longstreets at Sea Island, since they have a house there.

Needless to say, I kept running into so many wonderful people that we know (George Beckenridge of Columbia, Mary Lee Pickett of Georgetown, for instance). Did you miss the Cup? Oh, my goodness, I did too. Hope to see you at the Island when school’s out, though.

Lots of love,
Tootsie

Peace College
May 10, 1961

East Baltimore Young Mothers’ Home
1723 Archer Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland

Dear Sirs:

I am in trouble. You know what I mean and I need help. I think it may be all right to stay until the end of the semester, but I just don’t know. It will happen in January he said. Can you please take me? Write back fast.

Gladys

St. Mary’s Junior College
April 17, 1961

Hi Ya!

How's the second sharpest girl in the world! I'm shafting Kennybaby to hit Davidson for the first time. Wouldn't be going if you weren’t going to be there. I guarantee you, Sue, that damn monastery isn’t the Carolina Deke house!! But I’m supposed to have a date with one of the few really smooth people there. AIN’T SHARP ENOUGH!!! You know what his father does? I'll tell you what his father does. He’s president of a trucking company, that’s all! NOTHING BUT MONEY!! Met him at the PiKa party during the deb ball. (Love those PiKa’s!) Just got to be the best dancer I’ve ever seen, if he manages to stay on his feet, ha! ha!

Well, keep the pledge till I see you.

Oceans of emotions,
Babs

April 23, 1961

Dear Diary,

This has been the best weekend of my life. I went to a college dance with a third year college student. He was in one of those fraternities that has parties which would make our office shin-dig look like a Junior Prom. I didn’t meet any girls I knew, but I saw a lot of snotty college ones that I didn’t. I was supposed to spend the night in one of the boy’s dormitories with the other girls, but we didn’t make it in. George was nice enough to drive me to work the next morning. His family must be rich because he sure does get what he wants.

April 24, 1961

Dear Jane,

Please excuse the notebook paper, but if I don’t do something in this class I'll simply go crazy. This past weekend started off so good when we beat Robbinsville High in baseball, and then I thought things had just started. As I told you in my last letter Billy invited me to Davidson College’s Spring Frolics. Jane, I don’t know what’s happened to Billy. I’m sure you looked up to him like I did when he was Hi-Y President last year, but I just don’t know now. Billy drinks. All the boys in his club drink. Even a lot of the girls drank. When he took me to the dance in the gym he was the old Billy. But then we went to a dirty old place by a river and Billy changed. He, the girls, and the colored boys in the band got down-right ugly, in both word and deed. My parents wouldn't let those people in our home. Billy drank so much beer that he fell asleep and didn't wake up, except for the one time when he got sick. I was looking forward to at least ending it pleasantly by renewing our spiritual friendship at the Westminster Fellowship, but he said, “Hell, no, I might get sick again.” I might add that Billy isn’t bashful anymore... and that beautiful dress Mother made is in shreds. Oops... here comes the teacher.

NEVER GO TO A COLLEGE DANCE.

Jenny

(Reprinted by popular demand.)

WHY SHOULD YOU CARE IF I HAVE ANY OPINIONS OR PERSONALITY OR CHARACTER? BECAUSE IF YOU DON'T HAVE ANY CHARACTER IT'S A REFLECTION ON ME!