FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1961

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

SWIM OR SINK, SON!

Everyone knows the story about the young boy whose first trip to the seashore becomes a nightmare when his dad
abruptly scoops him up, pitches him into the water and exclaims, “Swim or sink, son!” The dad figures that the
boy will soon discover that he’d best swim. In many ways, Lefty Driesell is very much like this youngster. He
has made his first trip to the college basketball ranks as coach, and now the bigger guys, the “daddys” of
the conference, are hollering, “Recruit or sink, son!” So Lefty has decided he'd best recruit.

GO GET ‘EM LEFTY

Earlier this week, Lefty took off for the Midwest—land of wheat, friendly people, healthy hogs, and damn good basketball players.
His itinerary looked like Gen. Sherman’s except on the other side of the fence. He left with high spirits and
an empty pocketbook (well, almost). Lefty’s got his problems this first time out into the dog-eat-dog world of recruiting. Although
he’s got more full scholarships (five) to dish out than any Davidson basketball mentor before, he still has the perennial
problems his predecessors have had. He lacks travel expenses, which are so necessary to today’s coach who goes thousands of
miles just to see one boy. He hasn’t got the “big name” school to offer to these kids. He can’t
offer an “all play, no work” schedule that so many coaches can and do. And he can’t compare Hattie’s to
a supper club or a rathskeller, nor can he stack Queens up against having women on campus. So, our enthusiastic
rookie must do some fast talking. He’s got to talk about the importance of a good college education, the Davidson
gentlemen, the friendly atmosphere, and the faculty-student relationship. He’d better not mention Chapel, Vesper, review periods, and the “fly” problem.
And while he’s doing all his talking, Adolph Rupp, Frank McGuire, Everett Case, Vic Bubas, Chuck Noe, Bones McKinney, and
other well-knowns are going to be whispering in the boy’s other ear.

UH, OH, ... COLLEGE BOARD

Even if Lefty does get a boy interested in Davidson, he’s got domestic troubles. College board scores come out soon,
and it’s feasible that many of these kids’ scores won’t be as high as their basketball scoring average. That’s when
Lefty’s biggest headache goes into action — the admissions board. It has been known to keep one or two athletes
out of here. Lefty’s local adversaries also say, “There are lots of bright young men in our own state who
can play basketball.” When do you remember reading about a really outstanding basketball product from the North Carolina high schools?
Oh yeah, we forgot—Walt Bellamy, Indiana’s All-American, the Negro boy from New Bern, N.C. But we've seen Lefty Driesell do
things before we didn’t think he could do. Count on Davidson having some good freshmen basketball players next year.

SHORTSTOP HARRY SMITH ... Scoops up grounder ...

VPI Performance Earns Branch WOW

Our “Wildcat of the Week” is Barry Branch, junior sprinter for Davidson's vastly improved swimming team. Branch rewrote the record
books with a phenomenal individual performance at VPI last week. Besides tying his own school record of 24.2 seconds in
the 50-yard freestyle, Branch fell only one-tenth of a second short of his 100-yard freestyle record of 53.4 seconds. While
doing all this, Branch was winning three first places and breaking the VPI pool record in both events already mentioned.
To add icing to the cake, he teamed with Bob McDonald, Tom Hudgins, and Carter Mebane to equal their 400-yard
relay record of 3:43 minutes.

THE DAVIDSONIAN ATHLETES

Sluggers Prep For Visit To Catawba By GEORGE PEPPER Davidsonian Sports Writer

Warm weather and sunny skies have blessed the early practice sessions of the baseball team as it prepares for the
season’s opener this Wednesday. The clouters will journey into Catawba territory with high hopes of making up for last year's
loss to the Indians. Coach Tom Stevens said, “Catawba always plays good ball.” Stevens expects a close game. “We're looking
pretty good, but a lot will depend on the pitching,” he added.

PROBABLE STARTERS

As a tentative line-up for the Catawba game, Stevens named Tom Harris, Nick Daves, and Jerry Shelton as probable pitchers;
Harry Cline, catcher; Tom Harris, first base; Tommy Tuttle, second; Harry Smith or Graham Showalter, shortstop; team captain Russ Cotton,
third; Ed Hines, left field; Tommy Hamilton, center; and Jerry Cole in right field. Cole and Cotton are the only
seniors on the squad this year, but with the twelve lettermen returning to the team, experience is not lacking. Ed
Hines, last year's leading hitter at .388, and Harry Cline, elected last year to the second All-Conference team, should be
mainstays to the squad’s power throughout the season. Stevens said that he hopes to “at least break even" this season,
and he added that the team should have a better record than the 7-13 posted last year.

Rifle Team Seeks Revenge - Wofford

“The boys want to beat Wofford so bad they can taste it,” quipped Sgt. McCurry, coach of the Davidson rifle
team. The Wildcats matched Wofford there today. Wofford defeated the ‘Cats earlier this week, but modestly says, “That was our
lowest day,” recalled McCurry. The ‘Cats went against Wofford today with a 21-12 record. McCurry added, “With any kind of
luck, we should win this one.”

Branch now looks hopefully to the conference tournament but modestly says, “I don't think I'll have a very good chance.
West Virginia has a real fast boy, and Curlin of William & Mary beat me this year.” There is one
person who believes that the Wildcat star has a good chance though. That is Coach Dwight Shoe, who said of
the VPI meet, “Barry turned in a helluva performance up there.” Branch is from Atlanta, Ga., and is a member
of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Netters, Golfers Prepare For Meets

The Davidson College tennis team began official practice this past Monday afternoon in preparation for its opening meet, while the
school’s golfers hit the links to tune up for next week’s qualifying round. Semi Mintz, former Wildcat basketball and tennis
star, who will coach this season’s netmen, arrived on campus Sunday. The netters open their season here against Pfeiffer next
Friday, March 17. On hand to greet Mintz were the following lettermen from last year’s team: Doug Orr, Finley Lee,
Andy Sherrill, and Stefan Young. Up from last season's frosh are Bobby Austell, Bill Backland, and Fred Loop. Also, Nick
Cooper, a foreign student from England, is expected to help out. Coach Tom Scott announced qualifying for the golf team
will be held this coming Monday afternoon, March 13, at the local course in Mooresville.

WILDCAT GRIDDERS hit blocking sled in spring drills. Observing is Coach Joe Popp of Mooresville High School.

Gridders Begin Spring Drills By JOHN SPRATT Davidsonian Sports Writer

Twenty-three lettermen strong, the Wildcat gridders began a four-session-a-week spring training schedule, in an effort Monday to remove the cobwebs
from what may prove to be a formidable football machine. If the end of last year can be used as
a criterion, Coach Bill Dole believes that he has reason to expect a big season for the pigskin game this
fall. Explains Dole, “We have more depth and more experience than we've had at Davidson in a long time.” Nineteen
newcomers bolster the already sturdy frame of returning varsity players. Still clinging to last fall’s defensive strategy, Dole intends to
carry out the same stress in spring practice. The defensive unit, recruited from the best defensive players, will again be
given foremost priority. From the remaining, a second squad will be formed, the two units clashing in an intra-squad game
scheduled for Saturday, April 15. Injuries have as yet to take their toll among the Wildcats, and Coach Dole accredits
the team spirit for the first sessions as “very fine.”has only one returning letterman from last spring’s Southern Conference champions
— Verner Stanley, who was medalist at the conference tournament. Helping Stanley to defend the championship should be several long-ball
hitting upperclassmen, and the nucleus from last year’s fine freshmen team — Haywood Evans, Mims Rogers, Frank McPhillips, Thad Jones,
and Frank Tulloch. The golfers open with High Point, March 20 in Mooresville.

Davidson fired in the Southern Conference tournament last Saturday. Though the Cats landed in sixth place, McCurry was well pleased.
“We fired real good (1390), the best all year, in fact,” he said. “The competition was just too rough.” The
Citadel won, firing 1425, followed by West Va., and VPI. Davidson's Don Harper, as usual, was high man. McCurry used
two rookies, Skip Goodwin and Ronnie Lewis. McCurry remarked that they did well. The ‘Cats also competed in the National
Rifle Association match. Don Harper fired 286, Bill Blakely 276, and Marvin Rozear 270, in the individual firing. In team
competition Davidson managed a seventh place out of twelve positions.

Indoor Track Team, in ACC Tournament

Tomorrow afternoon the Davidson trackmen will participate in the Atlantic Coast Conference indoor track meet at Chapel Hill. Present at
the meet will be not only the ACC teams, but also Southern Conference teams. Davidson and the other Southern Conference
teams will be participating in the non-conference division. This trip will be no field day for the Wildcats; in fact,
close examination of the records would reveal that in many cases the competition in the Southern Conference is tougher than
that in the ACC. Having had only two meets to rely on, Coach Roger Thrift hesitated to point out anyone
as an individual standout. He was, however, happy to report that Ed Kizer and Mike Laughlin had returned from the
sick list. He also stated that Pat Currie, a hurdle man, had been added to the team. The Wildcats will
be handicapped tomorrow by the fact that two of their stronger events, the broad jump and the 440, will not
be on the agenda for the non-conference division.

PAGE THREE

Tankers In Winter Finale As Spring Action Begins

Swimmers Splash At Weekend Tournament

The Davidson College swimming team left earlier this week to participate in the annual Southern Conference tournament. The tournament is
being held this year at Fort Eustis, Va., which is located only a few miles from the William & Mary
campus. William & Mary is sponsoring the tournament, but lack of adequate facilities forced that institution to acquire the excellent
pool at the nearby military base.

Coach Dwight Shoe commented before leaving, “Attraction should be a real good tournament. Every conference record should be broken.”

TOUGH FOES

Among the toughest teams to be played are The Citadel, Richmond, and Furman, all of which are expected to be
stronger than last year. A newcomer to the schedule is George Washington, which reportedly also has a formidable lineup.

Championship

Just how will the ‘Catfish fare? Shoe stated, “We could finish anywhere from second to sixth.” He tabbed VMI as
the definite favorite. VPI, The Citadel, William & Mary, West Virginia, and Davidson are all about equal according to the
young mentor. Action in the diving events got underway yesterday morning, while sprint, distance, and relay contests are on tap
for today and tomorrow. Expected to carry the load for Davidson are the usual workhorses — Captain Tom Hudgins, Barry
Branch and Bill Whittington.

Grapplers Seek AAU Trophies

The Davidson wrestling team completed its season last weekend at Morgantown, W. Va., when it competed in the Southern Conference
wrestling tournament. Five conference schools participated in the two-day event. Entries included VPI, VMI, W. Va., Citadel, and Davidson, which
finished in that order, respectively. The Wildcats could manage only a last place finish against these powerhouses. Only grapplers to
score were Ken Barger (130) 4th place, Charles Trask (137) 4th place, and Harry Brown (167) 4th place. These three
received medals for their performance. This weekend, six varsity and two freshmen wrestlers travel to Raleigh, N. C., not as
representatives of the school, but as individuals, for the North Carolina and South Carolina Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) meet. The
Davidsonians include Tom Wright (123), Barger, Trask, Ben McCoy (157), Brown, Cliff Thompson (heavy), Bill Mills (167), and Sammy Glasgow
(147). The latter two are freshmen. The AAU meet is open to anyone who is classed as an amateur, and
winners there usually get tryouts for the U. S. Olympic squad. N.C. State College is sponsoring this event. Earlier this
week, Coach Charlie Parker's men elected Butch LeDoyen, 177-lbs., as captain for next year’s squad, which loses only Thompson via
graduation.

Goes Down To Wire

The 1-F basketball league is evidently as balanced this year as ever before. The race for the trophy, shared last
year by the SAE's and Independents with 11-1 records, is going down to the wire. Currently, three teams are tied
for the lead. These three are the Kappa Sigs, the SAE's, and the Phi Delts. All have 8-2 records. Right
behind are the Sigma Chis (8-3), the KA's (8-3), the Phi Gams (7-4), and the Betas (7-4). The big game
of the week was played Wednesday night, when the KA’s upended the SAE’s, 39-32. Hight Redmond, playing perhaps his best
game of the year, pumped in 23 points.

NOTICE

Tennis coach Semi Mintz announced that any freshman interested in going out for tennis should attend the meeting in the
Phys. Ed. classroom (2nd floor) at 3:30 p.m. this Monday, March 13.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

“I DON'T THINK THERE’S ANY END TO THE OPPORTUNITY”

When Gene Segin got his B.S. in Business Administration at the University of Illinois, he was in touch with 8
prospective employers. Gene joined Illinois Bell Telephone Company because: “The people I talked to here made it very clear that
I would not be shuffled into some narrow specialized job. I thought this job offered the greatest opportunity for broad
experience.” On his first assignment Gene was sent to Springfield where he conducted courses in human relations for management people.
His next move was to a traffic operations job in Rock Island. On this assignment he was in charge of
all personnel who are directly responsible for handling telephone calls in this heavily populated area. Here Gene earned a reputation
for sound judgment and skill in working with people. He was promoted to Traffic Supervisor.

Today, Gene’s chief responsibilities are in management training and development, and company-union relations. The latter includes contract bargaining and helping
settle labor disputes. How does Gene feel about his job? “It’s a real challenge. I’m in some of the most
vital and interesting work in the country.” And about the future—“Well there aren’t any pushover jobs around here. It’s tough.
But if a man has what it takes, I don’t think there’s any end to the opportunity in this business.”

If you're looking for a job with no ceiling on it—a job where you're limited only by how much responsibility
you can take and how well you can handle it—then you'll want to visit your Placement Office for literature and
additional information on the Bell Companies.

“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive and imaginative men we
can possibly find.”

Frederick R. Kappel, President American Telephone & Telegraph Co.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
