FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Thinclads Aim “Best Meet” 
BY GEORGE PEPPER 
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The track team will meet a powerful VPI team here on Tuesday in one of the season’s highlights. Coach Roger Thrift says that this is the meet his cindermen have been pointing for, adding, “It will be the best meet of the season, and we'll need our best performance to win.” Thrift is counting on the 440-yard run, the 220-yard dash, and the broad jump to give Davidson the nod. Tech will be strong in the distances and quarter mile run, as they have several Southern Conference champions entered in these events.

SWAMP RICHMOND

This past Tuesday the thinclads swamped Richmond in a 107 2/3-32 1/3 victory. Although no school records were broken in the course of the meet, the final tally is in itself an impressive showing of the team’s strength. 

Sideline Comments 
By STEVE CLARK

DOLE RECRUITING TOO

While most of our enthusiasm, praise, and interest has centered around Coach Lefty Driesell and the excellent job he is doing to round up some good basketball players for the next few years, we haven’t forgotten Bill Dole and the fine job he is doing. Dole is a man in a precarious position. He coaches a football team that represents the smallest school in the Southern Conference. Consequently, Dole cannot give nearly as many scholarships as his bigger brothers, and he often finds that he has fewer men on his squad than some of the schools have on full scholarship. A full scholarship is a rarity to Dole. Since he isn’t allotted much money, he has to divide the amount into part scholarships in order to get enough players. Despite being the smallest school in the conference, Davidson is undoubtedly the academic superior over the other eight members. More than one good football player has had to be rejected due to insufficient academic requirements. This past fall, however, Dole proved that intelligent lads can play football. After a slow start, Dole guided his men to victories over VPI and Lehigh, and defeated Furman in everything but the score, a 22-21 heartbreaker. Dole’s scrappy Wildcats picked up this spring where they left off in the fall, and turned in “the best spring practice ever at Davidson College.” Last Saturday’s Red-White game, which the Reds won by 26-12, indicated that next fall will find the Cats a powerful team.

Roger Beebe, the team’s high scorer for this season with 33 3/4 points, again set the pace with 11 1/4 points, winning the 220, 440, and a leg of the mile relay. Andy Boggs, Bill Eckbert, Hugh Murray, and Pat Currie followed with 10 points each. John Chiles, Bob Cordle, and Keith Fraser each added points to the tally. Thrift commended Cordle who looked exceptionally good and ran the 100-yard dash in 10 seconds flat.

UNDEFEATED

Ed Kizer, John Sharp, John Harris, and Beebe covered the cinders well ahead of Richmond in the mile relay, and they remain undefeated in this event. Having lost only two first places to Richmond, the team is looking to the VPI meet in high spirits. This will be a prelude to the Southern Conference meet, May 12-13 in Norfolk, Va.

Staff Photo by Bill Wyche.

BOB CORDLE (upper) and ED KIZER spurt for the finish line of the 100-yard dash against Richmond Tuesday. Cordle won the race in 10.0 seconds, and Davidson won the meet.

FINISH 
BY MEL McKENZIE 
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Tom ‘Cats stuck fast to a mid-season slump this week as Georgia Southern belted twenty-three hits to sink the ’Cats, 9-1 and 5-1 Monday and Tuesday.

Mid-Season Hitting Slump Plagues Nine

Yesterday, they momentarily broke the slump in the first game of a doubleheader with VPI. Behind pitcher Tommy Hamilton, the ‘Cats chalked up victory number four of the season, 6-5. But the Gobblers took the second, 11-8, as they poured 6 runs across the plate in the first inning. Perturbed Coach Tom Stevens has not found the trouble spot. 

Tuesday, Jerry Jacques went 5 2/3 innings and again Showalter relieved. Cecil Holcomb slammed his third homer of the season for the only Wildcat score. Tom Hamilton singled and Carl Tuttle scored later on Russ Cotton's sacrifice fly. Meanwhile, Georgia Southern tallied sixteen hits, including one triple and doubles. Hurler Tracy held Davidson to five hits. Southern committed no errors.

“Our defense improved Tuesday,” said Stevens. Davidson errors were down to two. Hitting, however, was still the headache. 

Davidson defeated, 6-3. Thus, an interesting match seemed to be in store for students and their dates on this annual Spring Frolics Friday.

CAROLINA CONVINCES

This past Monday, the locals took a discouraging fall before a strong team from the University of Cincinnati. 

Cincinnati Net Squad Pays ‘Cats A Visit 
BY JERRY TRAMMELL 
Davidsonian Sports Writer

This afternoon the Davidson netmen were scheduled to match the invading University of Cincinnati squad. The only thing Coach Semi Mintz and his Wildcats knew about the Bearcats prior to today’s match was the fact that they had been defeated, 6-3. Thus, an interesting match seemed to be in store for students and their dates on this annual Spring Frolics Friday.

At the same meeting, the council made plans to begin the last LF sport of the year next week. Tennis will get underway then, and this year, there will be a single elimination set-up. Pairings will be made, and the teams that draw each other will play in the following three situations: 1) as an independent, 2) if he is eating at some fraternity house as a guest, he may play for that fraternity, and 3) if he becomes a member of a fraternity, he may play for it. These three situations cover any possible situation the Congolese may find themselves in next year.Elaborated on the following names: Steve Heckard, 6-2, 185 lb. end, from Reynolds High School in Winston-Salem. Heckard played as a sophomore on the 1958 co-state champion 3-A team at Reynolds, and this past fall, he was tri-captain of the 4-A Demons that went to the state finals, before bowing to Greensboro. (Incidentally, present Wildcat guard Dick Voorhees was a member of that 1958 team.) Dole plans to use Heckard as a split end since he is tall, fast, and has good hands. Says Dole, “Heckard will probably start as a sophomore.” Don Hall is a 6-4, 235-lb. tackle, from N.C. Hall is expected to beef up the line. Tom Worrall, 5-11, 188 lb. halfback, is from Nashville. Worrall is described as “one of the finest running backs I have ever seen,” by Dole. The Nashville youngster sprints the 100-yard dash in 10.2 seconds. Dave Hendricks, a fullback from Gastonia, comes from Ashley’s finalists this past fall. Hendricks played linebacker on defense and was noted throughout the state for his ability to detect the play, react, and then clobber the runner. Steve Davidson, an end from West Palm Beach, Fla., is described by Dole as “the best blocking end I’ve ever seen.” Barry Storey, a fine quarterback from Lenoir, is described as a good passer, who runs the option play very successfully. In addition, Storey kicks off into the end zone.

WHAT? NO FLICK!
The Virginia Tech team arrived here Wednesday night prior to yesterday’s double-header. One of the Techmen, searching for something to do, approached us over at the Union and asked, “Hey buddy, is there a flick around here?” “Yeah,” we replied. “Right upstairs they’re showing some foreign film that’s supposed to be good.” The Yankee voice gave him a confused, “A foreign film!” Then a blank look came into his eyes as if he were thinking, “These guys must really be smart—watching films in another language.” The visitor then asked, “Well, where’s the downtown flick?” “There isn’t any downtown flick,” we replied. “No kidding?” said the Yank as he walked away.

But what about the future? It’s a known fact that if a team has ten outstanding football players, the University of North Carolina. The Tarheels took all six of the singles matches and the three doubles matches for a convincing 9-0 triumph. Results of the Carolina match:

SINGLES—Bruce Sylvia defeated Doug Orr, 6-4, 6-3; Keith Stoneman defeated Finley Lee, 6-2, 2-6, 6-3; Dave Morgan defeated Bobby Austell, 6-0, 3-6, 6-2; Kirby Jones defeated Nick Cooper, 6-2, 2-6, 6-3; George Zimmerman defeated Bob Snead, 6-2, 7-5; and Garland Carlton defeated Andy Sherrill, 6-1, 6-2.

DOUBLES—Stoneman and Sylvia defeated Orr and Lee, 6-3, 6-2; Morrow and Ricks defeated Cooper and Sherrill, 3-6, 8-6, 8-6; and Cooke and Sanders defeated Snead and Austell, 2-6, 6-2.

HARRY CLINE (batting) takes a low pitch as Georgia Southern catcher receives it. However, Southern pitchers didn’t throw many like this one as they beat the ‘Cats twice, 9-1 and 5-1. Thus the ‘Cats carried a 3-6 overall record into today’s match.

Sports Calendar
Tuesday and Wednesday the ‘Cats visit two conference foes, Richmond and William and Mary. The William and Mary match will end regular season play with the Conference tournament slated to begin May 4 in Charleston, S.C.

VIRGINIA TOUR
This coming week the netters journey to the state of Virginia for a three-day tour of that state's schools. Monday will find Davidson in Charlottesville for a match with another Atlantic Coast Conference powerhouse, the University of Virginia. Virginia proved themselves when they took a 7-2 victory from Ohio State, a team that had taken a 7-2 victory from Ohio State.

The first match will be a singles contest, as will the second. However, in the second, each team must use a different player. In case of a split in the first two matches, the deciding match will be a doubles match. There will be a losers’ bracket for those teams that lose in each successive round.

Meanwhile, softball got into full swing, and as of Wednesday six teams remained unbeaten—the KA’s, the Betas, the Kappa Sigs, the SAE’s, the Phi Delts, and the Sigma Chis. Monday’s action went as follows: the KA’s downed the Phi Gams, the Sigma Chis clipped the Independents, the Betas nipped the ATO’s, the Pikas beat the Sigma Nus, and the Kappa Sigs edged the Sig Eps.

On Wednesday, the SAE’s clobbered the Independents; the KA’s nipped the Sig Eps, 12-10; the Sigma Chis blasted the Sigma Nus, 19-3; the Kappa Sigs squeaked by the Pikas, 13-12; and the Betas defeated the Pi Kapps, 9-4.

Standings through Wednesday:
SAE’s 3-0
Betas 3-0
Kappa Sigs 2-0
KA’s 2-0
Sigma Chis 2-0
Phi Delts 1-0
Phi Gams 1-1
Pikas 1-1
Independents 1-2
ATO’s 0-2
Pi Kapps 0-2
Sig Eps 0-3
Sigma Nus 0-4

In Charlotte, It's THE STARLIGHT ROOM For Fine Food Steaks And Lobsters Are The Chef’s Specialty Entertainment 2115 N. Tryon Call ED 3-7144 For Reservations

Golfers Chip With Wake Forest Today
The Davidson golf team entertained Wake Forest this afternoon at the Myers Park Country Club. Monday, The Citadel turned back the ‘Cat turfmen on the Myers Park links by a score of 19 1/2 to 7 1/2. As usual, Captain Verner Stanley paced the field as he was medalist with a 74. In match play, Stanley defeated the Bulldog’s top man, 2-1. Stanley and John Crute teamed up to gain a 1 1/2-1 1/2 split with the two best Bulldogs for best ball.

Summer Help Wanted
Male Or Female
Excellent Crafts, Nature Lore, or Archery Specialist to Work At Coastal Camp for 10 Weeks. Write Secretary, 1601 Hillsboro Street, Raleigh, North Carolina.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE

GREAT BETWEEN COURSES!
Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina