‘FOCUS’ AND ‘FOCUS’ ON ‘FOCUS’ (See Page Two)

VOL. XLIX

The Davidsonian

Honors 12 Students, Professor For Leadership

HAS HARRY TWO HEADS? — Author Harry Golden and Dean Frontis Johnston wait for the 10:20 bell before beginning assembly last Tuesday. Golden told the student body some of his experiences while covering the trial of Adolf Eichmann in Jerusalem. (Davidsonian Photo By Lafferty)

Students Will Not Speak At Graduation Exercises

There will be no student speakers at commencement this year, Dean Frontis W. Johnston admitted to THE DAVIDSONIAN this week. The news came as a surprise in the latest developments for graduation exercises. The faculty voted several weeks ago to eliminate this part of the program, Johnston said. The move was made to shorten the exercises. There was even talk of cutting out the regular commencement address too, sometime in the next few years.

“This is no radical departure,” Johnston said. “It is part of a general trend.” The dean also commented that few student speeches at commencement have really been valedictories. Most students don't seem to know what type of address they should give, he explained.

Other plans continued this week for the commencement program. The ROTC department furnished details on the commissioning exercises, and the Senior Class Day Committee moved forward on its plans.

Eighty graduating Davidson cadets will be commissioned at 3 p.m. Saturday, May 27, 1961, as second lieutenants in the U. S. Army. M. MacKing, a former cadet corps commander at Davidson, ‘29, will be the speaker for the commissioning exercises. Four Cadets, Quinton Boyd, Don Harper, Jim Ratchford, and T. Redding, will receive commissions into the Regular Army. The other 76 will receive commissions in the Army Reserve. Following the address by King, the cadets will take the oath of office, which will be given by Lt. Col. W. L. Adams, Jr. Brigadier General Kenneth A. McCrimmon, from Fort Bragg will then present the commissions. The 440th Army Band from Fort Bragg will supply music for the occasion.

Ben Sparks, head of the Senior Class Day Committee, said that program will also be held Saturday the 27th. “We invite any member of the senior class and faculty to feel welcome to come.” He promised that this year’s program would not take the aspect of a side show.

Rush Rules For Fall

Bob Waugh, president of the 1961-62 Interfraternity Council, has announced the rush regulations for the fall of 1961. These, he said, are virtually the same as last year, the main difference being that classes will be held during rush, making the schedule even more hectic. Beginning Aug. 15, such formal rush materials as pamphlets, official letters, and date cards may be sent out. None will be allowed before this date although informal letters from individuals will be acceptable throughout the summer.

Saturday, Sept. 9, an informal tea will be held at the Union to give the incoming freshmen a chance to speak individually to independents about fraternities. A period of silence will be in effect from 11 p.m. Sunday until confirmation during Monday chapel. At this time the rushees will determine the parties they will attend for the first three days. As last year, three parties will be held on each of the first three days. On Thursday, Sept. 13, re-dates will be distributed through the IFC. A second period of silence will occur from 11 p.m. Wednesday to 10 a.m. Thursday when confirmation of re-dates will be held, followed by two sets of three parties each which will take place Thursday and Friday.

Concerning the gentlemen's agreement to limit dorm room visits to 15 minutes, Waugh said that he “hoped it would be observed better next fall.” He stated that if it comes down to brass tacks the IFC will not hesitate to make it a regulation.

Actors To Audition For Prof. Sneden

John Aitken Sneden, Jr., head of the new Drama Department, will visit the campus this Tuesday in an effort to get an idea of the student talent he will be working with next year. Sneden will hear interested students read at 4 p.m. Tuesday in the theater of the new Cunningham Fine Arts Building. The text will be Hamlet’s second soliloquy at the end of Act II.

One reason Sneden is interested in finding students with the ability to act is because he will be directing a play in the fall for the opening of the fine arts building. Although he has visited the campus on other occasions in conjunction with Vagabond productions, Sneden wanted a chance to become familiar with all prospective actors.

DAVIDSONIAN “alumni” Laurens Walker, “B” Millner, and Ervin Duggan have been selected to work in conjunction with The Wall Street Journal Newspaper Fund this summer. The Wall Street Journal in cooperation with several other leading newspapers around the country provides journalism jobs for students during the summer. The students receive regular salaries from these newspapers, and if at the end of the summer, their work is found to be satisfactory they are awarded a $500 scholarship. The scholarship may be applied to any course of study.

Laurens Walker, editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN during 1958-59, will also be working with The Charlotte Observer. Since leaving Davidson he has spent a year studying in England and a summer working for The Spartanburg Herald. This is the second year that The Wall Street Journal has sponsored this program. Last summer the present editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN, David W. Jordan, also participated in it, working for The Miami Herald.

Martin Says Congolese Still Remote Possibility

The Congolese Committee completed its formal work for the current year Wednesday night with the word from President D. Grier Martin that there is still a “fairly remote possibility” Davidson will have a Congolese student next fall. Emmanuel Nsuba, the son of a Presbyterian minister in the church's Leopoldville station, has been living in New Jersey this year with a former missionary to the Congo, and attending high school there. The couple, the Rev. and Mrs. Don Newby, are returning to Africa this summer, and are investigating colleges for Nsuba. Davidson has been approached by them. President Martin explained to the committee that there were a number of problems involved though. According to the trustees’ action: the Congolese student must be recommended by the Board of Missions. President Martin feels this could be achieved. The Board is being

Sigma Chi, SAE Elect New Officers

Officers for 1961-62 have been elected by Sigma Chi and Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternities. For Sigma Chi, they are: Harry Cline, consul; Jim Davis, pro-consul; Al King, annotator; Bud Robinson, quaestor; and Butch Le Doyen, magister. The officers for SAE are: Don Follmer, president; Don McQueen, vice-president; Frank Lyon, recorder; Frank Baumgardner, corresponding secretary; and Tom Lucas, treasurer.

An English major, Harry Cline has been a member of D-Club, Student Council, the baseball team, and the staff of Scripts ‘n Pranks; Cline will be vice-president of next year's senior class. In the fraternity, he has held the office of historian before being elected consul. Don Follmer, from Charlotte, will be back at Davidson next year, after a year’s absence, to lead the SAE’s. McQueen has previously been house chairman. As vice-president, he will act as rush chairman.

Cadet Col. Stanley Gaines won top recognition Tuesday at ROTC Awards Day exercises. Gaines, corps commander, was honored as the most outstanding MS IV cadet at summer camp last year.

Annual cadet awards and the spring tapping of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, highlighted the final ROTC drill of the year. Two seniors and five juniors were admitted into the honorary group. Quinton Boyd and Bob Cook were the MS IV’s. Juniors tapped were Randy Austin, Ed Grimsley, Duncan Morton, Phil Patrick and Bob Stone.

Capt. David Hampton announced the special awards at the formal review in Richardson Stadium. In addition to Gaines, other cadets recognized as most outstanding in their classes academically were: MS III, Linton Wray; Miller Goss, MS II; and Paul Simpson, MS I. The Third Army Leadership Certificate went to Cadet Col. Bob Young, who was the corps commander first semester. The Association of the U. S. Army medal for the best leader among MS III cadets went to Lowry Reed, while Senior Scott Lacy

Ervin Duggan, 1960-61 associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, has completed negotiations to work with THE WASHINGTON POST, as a reporter this summer and continuing into the fall if he desires. Duggan has already turned down an offer with an Augusta newspaper.Notified of this case. Other possible problems are in the matter of finance and of Nsuba's qualifications. The Board has probably used its available funds in supporting the 10 students it assigned in Switzerland and the U.S. Nsuba attended school for nine years in the Congo and the current year in New Jersey. The college is not yet sure if he would be qualified to begin college work next fall. “These things leave us a little unsettled on the matter,” Martin said. “We are trying to explore if the Board would undertake him. We should know definitely about this possibility in two weeks.”

Henry Shue and Bert Keller spoke with Newby this week. They learned that Nsuba is now taking tests to determine his probable success in college. Nsuba also sings well and excels in several sports, among them soccer, track, and football.

The Congolese Committee made arrangements for continuing its organization and work through the summer and into the coming school year in preparation for the students whenever they do come. New members will be appointed in the next two weeks. Dr. Dan Rhodes and Harrison Wellford, co-chairmen, expressed deep appreciation to the committee for its work. The spirit and achievements reflect a real sense of dedication, Rhodes said.

TRACKMEN TRAVEL TO CONFERENCE MEET (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

Dr. Marney Delivers Address For Tapping

The Davidson chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa tapped five seniors, three juniors, and one faculty member at its annual ceremony yesterday in chapel. Four other juniors, not present at chapel, were also issued bids. Dr. Carlyle Marney from the Myers Park Baptist Church was the chapel speaker for ODK. After the initiation at 6 p.m. last night, a banquet was held in honor of the new members in the College Union. Those who were inducted at that time are Tom Parker, Stanley F. Gaines, Robert Young, Dave Gilmour, Ervin Duggan, Hutton Barron, Harrison Wellford, Frank Mansell, Duncan Morton, Dave Jordan, Bob Waugh, and Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz. George Trask will be initiated when he returns from overseas next fall.

The national leadership fraternity selects students on the basis of their achievements in one or more of the fields of scholarship, athletics, student government, publications, and speech, music, and drama.

Tom Parker, who is the SAE representative to the Interfraternity Council, was president of the Junior Class last year and was recently initiated into Phi Beta Kappa. The vice-president of Scabbard and Blade, he has also been named to Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities. He holds a position on the Honor Court and is in AED pre-medical fraternity.

Ervin Duggan, former associate editor for THE DAVIDSONIAN, last year received first prize for features in the Charlotte Observer and Charlotte News High School and College Press Awards contest. A member of Sigma Upsilon, Duggan has also served on the YMCA Cabinet.

A Dana Scholar and a recent initiate into Phi Beta Kappa, Hutton Barron is a mathematics major and has served as business manager of Scripts and Pranks. He is a Distinguished Military Student and holds a position on the Student Council.

Harrison Wellford, a history honors student, was last week made judge of the Honor Court. The native of Charlotte holds the Robert E. Phifer Honor Scholarship and is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Wellford has also played on the soccer team.

Frank Mansell is the new president of the YMCA and is studying at Davidson on a Dana Scholarship. The pre-ministerial student is president of Sigma Nu social fraternity and has served as business manager of Scripts and Pranks.

A pre-med major from Charlotte, Duncan Morton is president of next year's senior class. He is a halfback on the football team and is rush chairman of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Morton is also a member of Scabbard and Blade.

Dave Jordan, newly elected editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, (Continued On Page Four)

Critic Terms New Annual ‘A Vast Artistic Success’

“We too, are not everything for every man.” “... Look for something here that for four years or one has been you.” — 1961 Quips and Cranks

The 1961 Quips and Cranks is a vast artistic success that will be neither liked nor understood by every student. Like the college, it is not everything for every man. But for the ones who are willing to look, there is plenty to find.

Photographed by Editor Charlie Rose, and written about by Larry H. Smith, Davidson College is trapped on paper with honesty and poetry. This annual is a book. It tells a story. It was not made to be thumbed through. Under a cursory glance, it disintegrates, but when read two or three times it becomes a poetic analysis of a school.

We would humbly prescribe a method of approach for this book. Look at the pictures first. Find yourself, your fraternity, find your sport. Then go back and read it — from beginning to end, cover-to-cover. Then finally, go to the core of the book. Read the class sections as a unit; skip the material in between. There runs through the class sections a fine, fragile line of continuity that is easily broken if the reader does not look for it, find it, and focus his attention upon it. Then read “The Girl,” and “The Students” and the closing poetic essay.

From purely a technical standpoint, the 1961 Quips and Cranks is near-perfect. Rose becomes a deft artist when he has a camera in his hand. The layout is modern and daring. The typography is bold and exquisite at just the right moments.

Artistically, there is excellence and two blemishes. Smith’s prose-poetry, brilliant in places, in other places is a trifle too high-flown, a little too obscure. An unfortunate placing of the sections destroys some of the continuity in the core of the book.

This Quips and Cranks breaks long-established traditions in Davidson annuals. There are no individual portraits in the fraternity section. There is no beauty section. Many will be disappointed.

This annual has been constructed painstakingly. In it there is not everything for every man. But for the ones who are willing to look, there is plenty to find.

EDITOR CHARLIE ROSE looks over an advance copy of the 1961 Quips and Cranks. Copies of the annual will be distributed Monday and Tuesday only starting at 8 a.m. in the lobby of the College Union. (Davidsonian Photo By McCutchen)