PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1961

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

Gridders SAME OLD PROBLEM

THE DEPTH PLAGUE has struck the Davidson football team once again. Before the Catawba game, Coach Bill Dole stated that he had more depth this year than ever before. This was a true statement no doubt, but that still wasn’t saying a whole lot. In the past, Davidson players have pretty much had to be “60-minute men.” What Dole meant by the current squad’s depth was that he had two teams, an offensive unit and a defensive unit, which he could play interchangeably, and not feel insecure with either on the field. However, a look at our conference brethren’s rosters indicates that we don’t really have the depth so necessary in today’s brand of college football.

Last Saturday's game with Furman is a good example of what we're talking about. For those of you who went to Greenville, you'll recall that the weather wasn’t exactly conducive for a football game. It got kind of warm in the stands, and you can bet your last buck it was a lot warmer inside a football uniform. The first half was nip and tuck, and Furman led at halftime, 14-13. Throughout that first half, Dole wisely substituted his two units, and Coach Bob King of Furman ran his three teams in and out.

By the fourth quarter, it was obvious which team was beat, and you didn’t have to look at the scoreboard for the answer. Actually, the point spread made no difference, because we had played an excellent game. We were simply beat physically and mentally.

Naturally, the extreme heat had an adverse effect on our players. Many of them sweated off as many pounds in twenty minutes as they would have in five hours in a Turkish bath house. But the fact remains that it was just as hot for the Furman players. We believe that those extra few minutes of rest (on the shady side of the stadium incidentally) provided by an extra unit of players turned the tide for Furman.

Tomorrow night against The Citadel, Dole will have only two quarterbacks available since sophomore star Benny Coxton pinched a nerve in his shoulder last week. Two more pinched nerves or two sprained ankles or two broken arms or two anythings and Davidson would be minus the most important player on the field. Who knows? Maybe a 220-pound guard could call signals pretty well. It’s those roll-out plays we're concerned about!

ALL-AMERICAN DAD

WHAT'S IT LIKE to have an All-American football player for a father? Ask George McEver, sophomore Wildcat end, and you may find the answer. It seems that McEver’s dad, Mr. Gene McEver, received that honor in his college playing days at the University of Tennessee. Mr. McEver played football at UT (currently better known as a dance) during the Vols’ “Golden Era,” 1927-31. He ran from the tailback slot of the then popular single wing offense.

Three other members of that Tennessee team might explain the Vols’ amazing five-year record of 43-1-4. They were Bobby Dodd, Beatty Feathers, and Herman Hickman—also All-Americans, who carried their knowledge of the game into the coaching field.

THE CRYSTAL BALL

WITH AN OVERALL record of 10 right and 3 wrong, we'll stick with our task of predicting all the Southern Conference games this fall.

Citadel’s defense has allowed too many points this season, and Davidson has proved its offensive capabilities with six TD's in two games. It’s also going to be cooler tomorrow night so defense should hold up.

VMI should seem like a breather tonight to Richmond after last week’s game with Army. Pick Richmond, 27-15.

In other games tomorrow: Furman to clip George Washington, 22-14; Syracuse to trounce West Virginia, 40-6; and Navy to wallop William & Mary, 33-7.

JIM FULLER

Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson cross-country team opened its 1961 season at Pembroke College this afternoon. Coach Heath Whittle was very optimistic last Tuesday as he named the six men who will make the trip to Pembroke. “Unless things have changed a lot since last year,” Whittle said, “I am pretty sure we can win.”

Davidson won last year’s meet with Pembroke by a score of 16-46. Led by Sterling Martin, the Wildcats harriers swept the first four places. Martin is running again this year as co-captain with Dave Gilmore. Other men running against Pembroke included Bob Scales, Tom Spiro, Keith McMullen, and Charlie Rowe.

In addition to trying to win, Martin was also aiming at the Pembroke course record, set in 1959 by Bill Eckbert, a Davidson graduate. Whittle stated, “I firmly believe that Martin will break this record.”

Wednesday the squad will open its home season against Wake Forest at 4 p.m. The freshman cross-country team will open its season against the Wake Forest frosh also on Wednesday. Whittle is pleased with a turnout of fifteen freshmen for the team. Outstanding in practice have been Dennis Phillips and Tommy Heffner.

Frosh Drop Opener To Chowan JC

The freshmen football team got off to a slow start yesterday afternoon, when they fell to a powerful Chowan Junior College team, 38-7, here on the Davidson campus.

Chowan scored quickly, two touchdowns in both the first and second quarters, and the Wildkittens never recovered. The Davidson defense was totally inept in the first half, and simply couldn’t contain a smooth-functioning offense of the visitors. Several personal fouls against the Junior College boys kept them from scoring more than they did.

The Kittens caught fire in the third period, however. A 75-yard scoring drive, highlighted by the passing of quarterback Barry Story, and the receiving of ends Steve Heckard and Sam Grimes, gave the frosh their only score. The scoring play was a 15-yard toss from Story to Grimes, and Story booted the extra point. The Murfreesboro, N. C., school then came back for two more touchdowns in the half for a decided victory.

Davidson frosh Coach Donald Threlkeld was not entirely downhearted though. He cited the play of Heckard, Jay Rogers, Tommy Worrell, Tex Cathey, and Will Jackson as being particularly outstanding.

Soccermen Prep. For King College

The Davidson soccer team continues its workouts in preparation for next Saturday’s opening match with King College at Bristol, Tenn. Coach Harry Fogelman has been running his players pretty hard as he seeks a starting eleven. Some of the soccermen who have shown promise include Captain Joe Kelly, Harrison Wellford, Tarby Bryant, Fred Schoen, Jamie McCutchen, David Dakin, Charles Sasser, Greg Winkler, Gary Lane, Frank Tulloch, BillWallace, and George Kuyndahl. Fogeman has hopes of equal-

BULLDOGS SEEK FIRST WIN

Invade

EARL COLE (number 18), sophomore quarterback, tosses to BOOKER CLARK (stretching for ball) as DUNCAN MORTON defends. The three are dressed out light in loosening up exercises for tomorrow night’s game with The Citadel in Charleston. Morton and Alex Gibbs will be co-captains for the game. (Davidsonian Staff Photos by Joe McCutcheon.)

Harriers Open At Pembroke; Wake Forest Here Wednesday

Citadel Dole Expects Close Game Tomorrow Night

BY MIKE HOLMES
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The third game of Coach Bill Dole’s tenth year as head man at Davidson College finds his Wildcats in Charleston, S. C., tomorrow night against The Citadel Bulldogs. Kickoff time is 8 p.m.

The Citadel, under the able tutelage of Eddie Teague, will be searching for the combination to unlock their first win. Downed by Memphis State, 40-0, in their opener, the Bulldogs also dropped number two, a 17-13 squeaker last week to George Washington.

EXCITING SERIES

The Citadel-Davidson series dates back to 1909. The ’Cats lead in the series, 18-13-4. Says Dole, “We have always had a very fine series with The Citadel. Generally the games are very close.”

The Bulldogs run a T-formation, with Bill Whaley, a polished passer, at the quarterback slot. The ’Cats must also watch Earley Eastburn, fastest man on The Citadel's squad and a constant breakaway threat. The speedy Bulldog halfback led his team in scoring and yards rushing a year ago, and was named to the All-Conference second team. Rounding out the backfield are shifty halfback Tommy Edwards, senior letterman, and Belton Dykes, 6-1, 190-lb., blockbusting fullback.

Citadel's line is somewhat larger in poundage this year, but inexperience prevails in the interior segment. There are lettermen end, and Ed Harrington, 220-lb. stellar guard, has savvy up front.

DOLE PLEASED

Despite the lop-sided score at Furman last week (45-19), Dole was well pleased with his team’s showing. “Our fellows played a fine game of football,” says Dole. “The heat had a great deal to do with Furman’s scoring in the last two quarters. Our depth could not match theirs. They just wore us down.”

COXTON OUT

Besides losing the game, Davidson lost the services of Benny Coxton, first team quarterback, who will be out of action about a month due to a pinched nerve. However, Earl Cole, who did a magnificent job of filling in for the injured Coxton, steps up to the number one spot, as the first offensive unit remains intact. Bill Bankhead is still a doubtful starter due to an injury in the Catawba game, but Morris Williams is set to fill in for him.

The 'Cats have an open date next weekend, and the additional time will be spent preparing for the Homecoming battle with Presbyterian on October 14.

I-F Flickerball In Full Swing

Inter-fraternity flickerball action got underway this past Wednesday as eight teams opened their seasons. Yesterday, the remaining five got started, and at the end of this afternoon’s action every team had played two games except the KA’s and the Pikas.

Wednesday’s results:

The SAE’s displayed defensive strength as they blanked the KA’s, 18-0.

The Phi Gams scored a touchdown in the last six seconds to break a 14-14 deadlock with the Sigma Chis for a 20-14 victory.

The defending champion Kappa Sigs proved that they are once again explosive despite heavy graduation losses from last year’s undefeated team by clobbering the Pi Kapps, 52-0.

The Phi Delts cruised to a 24-6 triumph over the stubborn Sigma Nus.

Next week’s I-F schedule is as follows:

Monday, 4 p.m.
KA's vs. Pi Kapps, field 1
Pika’s vs. Phi Delts, field 2
SAE’s vs. Betas, field 3
Phi Gams vs. SPE’s, field 4

Wednesday, 4 p.m.
Kappa Sigs vs. ATO’s, field 1
Sigma Nus vs. Ind., field 2
SX’s vs. Phi Delts, field 3
KA’s vs. Betas, field 4

Thursday, 4 p.m.
Pikas vs. SPE’s, field 1
SAE’s vs. ATO’s, field 2
Phi Gams vs. Ind., field 3
K Sigs vs. Sigma Nus, field 4

Friday, 4 p.m.
Pi Kapps vs. Betas, field 1
SX’s vs. SPE’s, field 2
KA’s vs. ATO’s, field 3
Pikas vs. Ind., field 4

STERLING MARTIN (left) and DAVID GILMOUR, cross-country co-captains, jog around the local course in preparation for today’s opening match at Pembroke. (Davidsonian Staff Photo by Joe McCutcheon.)

Fuller Paces ‘Cats Offense

Jim Fuller has proved himself after two games of varsity experience with the Davidson Wildcats. With such speedsters as Bob Cordle, Alex Gibbs, Joe Jones, and Dave Lopp playing halfback on the Wildcat squad this season, Fuller wasn’t really counted on to carry a payload. Last season on the freshman team, he had done a good job, but he just didn’t seem to have the necessary speed to be a real good halfback. And he tended to be a little lazy at times.

But when fall practice began, the big, blond sophomore from High Point, N. C., apparently had turned over a new leaf. In the pre-season scrimmages and workouts he turned in some outstanding performances. He continued these performances into the season, and after two games, he is tied with Benny Coxton as the team’s leading ground gainer with 80 yards in 18 carries. He is our “Wildcat of the week.”

Fuller makes up for his lack of speed with his power. His 195-lb. frame enables him to bulldoze instead of dodge. On one play against Furman, a referee stepped in his way as he broke through a nice hole in the Furman line. Fuller forearmed the official into a would-be Paladin tackler, cut for the sidelines, and about 25 yards later was hauled down.

Fuller is an outstanding basketball player too. Last year, he averaged 15 points a game in the inter-fraternity league, and was named to the All-Star first team.

DAVIDSON STATISTICS

RUSHING
Attempts Yards Avg.
Benny Coxton 14 80 5.7
Jim Fuller 18 80 4.4

PASSING
Att. Comp. Pct. Yds.
Earl Cole 33 13 39.4 215
Benny Coxton 16 7 43.8 119

TOTAL OFFENSE
Yards
Earl Cole 248 (4th in Conference)
Benny Coxton 199

PASS RECEIVING
No. caught Yds.
Alex Gibbs 5 91
Lou Zirkle 5 56
Jerry Sheffield 4 69

SCORING
TD’S Extra Points Total
Alex Gibbs 2 0 12
Booker Clark 2 0 12
Benny Coxton 1 0 6
Jerry Sheffield 1 0 6
Bruce Usher 0 4 4

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the famous OPEN KITCHEN for a...

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

COPYRIGHT © 1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY. COCA-COLA AND COKE ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS

BETWEEN BITES... get that refreshing new feeling

Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Concord