FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

SEEK YE THE LIGHT

DR. TOM SCOTT, our easy-going Athletic Director, sunk back in his swivel chair behind his desk, took a long drag
off his cigarette, and stated, “We've got to get some new lights in that stadium if we expect to play
Catawba in the opening game next fall. If we don't, I guess we'll just have to play them in Charlotte
again.”

Scott has made it clear that he doesn’t want to play Catawba in Charlotte again. It just isn’t very fun
sitting in a 20,000 capacity stadium in front of 4,000 fans. But even that's better than playing in the dark,
which is almost the situation in Richardson Stadium.

We see no reason for the school to hesitate putting in a better lighting system in the stadium. The school
has practically enough money in the Living Endowment Fund and all the other funds to make the payroll stolen at
the famous Brink's Robbery look like chicken feed. Seriously, the hill can afford to buy some new lights to replace
the present candlesticks.

The advantages of getting a better lighting system in the stadium are numerous. We all know how hot the weather
is around here in September and early October (Remember the Furman game?), and our early home games could be played
under the lights. This would be beneficial to both players and fans.

Another advantage point is the fact that we might draw a few extra fans. Carolina, Duke, N. C. State, Clemson,
and Wake Forest are all within striking range of area football fans, who prefer to watch the bigger schools play.
Since most all of these larger schools play afternoon encounters, a few people might decide to try to make it
back to Davidson for a night game. For years many area fans have witnessed a big-time game in the afternoon
and have hurried back to watch Lenoir Rhyne, Catawba, Wofford, or Newberry at night.

There are other advantages such as better practice conditions, better conditions for North High when they play here, etc. We
won't elaborate here, but simply make a plea for a better lighting system in our stadium. Davidson is progressive, isn’t
she?

DEACS ARE HOPPING MAD

IF YOU THINK Wake Forest is taking the game with us tomorrow night lightly, you’d better think again. The Deacs
will be trying to run us off the court, and they have the team to do it. At the Wake
Forest Tipoff luncheon this week, co-captain Billy Packer served the ’Cats the following warning as he spoke to Deacon alumni
and fans.

“We're proud to be rated number 3, but won't be satisfied until we're number 1. But one thing that annoys
us is all this talk about Ohio State. (The Deacs play the Buckeyes, currently No. 1, next Saturday night.) We
want people to come out for all games.

“Saturday night, for instance, we play Davidson. We were really humiliated after they beat us last year. If you don’t
think 13 boys are seeking revenge Saturday night, just don’t throw any raw meat out there.”

That’s right, Billy, a real live Wildcat might gobble it up.

FINAL CRYSTAL BALL RECORD: 41-20 (.672).

Mermen Splash Tigers Here On Wednesday

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College swimming team opens the 1961-62 season by meeting Clemson this Wednesday in the first of two pre-Christmas
meets. A third meet with South Carolina was canceled due to the elimination of the swimming program at that institution.
Coach Dwight Shoe feels his team is ready for the challenge.

After the Clemson meet, both Harriers Finish 6th in Loop Meet

In the cold and mud at Lexington, Va., last week the Furman cross-country team captured the Southern Conference title with
a low score of 37. The Paladins’ Lappley Vickers had the winning time of 21:33 minutes for the 4-mile course.

Davidson’s harriers finished as follows: David Gilmour, 29th in 23:50; Sterling Martin, 35th in 24:19; Charlie Rowe, 39th; Tim Spiro,
40th; Bob Scales, 48th; Bob Leslie, 53rd; and Keith McMullen, 58th. Martin, Davidson's ace runner, finished 8th a year ago,
and would have undoubtedly done better this year had he not passed out momentarily at the 1.5-mile mark. For his
winning performances all fall, Martin was named to the All-Conference squad.

Other team scores following Furman were as follows: VMI-57, VPI-67, West Virginia—89, William & Mary—116, and The Citadel—210. VMI took
the freshman trophy followed by Furman, Davidson, VPI, and The Citadel, respectively. Rocky Soderburg, Furman’s sensational frosh, set a new
3-mile record with a time of 15:46.

The Wildkittens were paced by Chester Davis, who finished 3rd in 16:40. Tommy Heffner was 6th; Dennis Phillips, 12th; Ronnie
Reese, 26th; and Charlie Ramburg, 30th.

I-F Swimming Meet Finals On Monday

The semi-finals of this year’s I-F swimming meet were held last night as entries qualified for Monday night’s finals to
be held at the pool in the gym at 7:30 p.m. The KA’s are defending swimming champions.

Meanwhile, the I-F wrestling tournament has been postponed indefinitely until agreement can be reached concerning eligibility and until the mats
at the gym will be free for use.

NATIONALLY RANKED DEACS SEEK REVENGE

The 1961-62 edition of the Davidson basketball team, which opens its season tomorrow night at Wake Forest. Kneeling (left to
right) are HOWARD ARBUCKLE, D. G. MARTIN, CARRELL, HAYWOOD EVANS, LYMON DILLON, and DURWOOD SETTLES. Standing (left to right) are
COACH LEFTY DRIESELL, BOB MOORE, ALLAN MILLAR, BILL BEERMAN, BILL JARMAN, TERRY HOLLAND, and ASSISTANT COACH JOE HUNT.

Pfeiffer First Foe On Mats Here Tonight

BY BILL PRIDGEN Davidsonian Sports Writer

The wrestling season for Davidson's matmen began at 7:30 tonight in Johnston Gymnasium. The Wildcats played host to the Pfeiffer
Falcons. Coach Charlie Parker stated that he had little information on the Pfeiffer matmen since they have only three boys
returning from last year’s team. Parker did, however, indicate that it would be a “pretty good” match. Last year Davidson
met Pfeiffer twice, taking a clean sweep in their second match, 30-0.

The probable starters in tonight’s match are Ken Barger, 123; Tom Wright, 130; Tom Brown, 137; Ben McCoy, 147; Butch
LeDoyen, 157; Billy Mills, 167; and North Carolina, and VMI. On the team’s overall prospects, Parker is optimistic.

“ARE YOU SURE YOU DON’T NEED A MAN’S DEODORANT?” says TOM DAY as he rides BILLY MILLS in a wrestling
workout. (Davidsonian Staff Photo by Joe McCutchen.)

’Cats Open At Wake Forest

BY JOHN THE ’Cat basketballers make their season debut tomorrow night by attacking the nation’s 7th ranked team. It’s an
ambitious start for a team that features three sophomores in its starting lineup; but after last year’s opener with Wake,
few will tag it outright foolhardiness, especially Coach Lefty Driesell. “We're going up there to win it,” he asserts unhesitatingly.
Still, Driesell mustSpearhead his invasion with a club molded around a series of pre-season question marks. He expects about the
same calibre and type of team as last year, but perhaps a little more adept with the ball and perhaps
with a few more rebounds. The probable lineup for tomorrow night is as follows: Terry Holland, 6-7 soph; Allan Millar,
6-4 sr; Jarman, 6-5 jr; Lymon Dillon, 6-1 soph. Stating, “If the boys get in shape and get down to
their proper weight, we'll have one of our better seasons.”

Others slated to see plenty of action include senior forward D. G. Martin, and guards Haywood Evans and Danny Carrell.
Carrell was the sparkplug in last year’s opening win over Wake, 65-59. Bill Beerman, 6-4 soph. The Deacons are defending
champions of the basketball-minded Atlantic Coast Conference and will definitely be seeking revenge. Their attack is centered around 6-8, 240-lb.
Lennie Chappell, everybody's pre-season All-American. Other probable starters include 6-10 Bob Woolard; 6-6 Bill Hull, who trudged from the football
field right on to the basketball court following last Saturday’s gridiron finale with North Carolina; Billy Packer, back court playmaker;
and sharpshooting Dave Weideman.

Duke, despite their high billing, lacks experience with four sophomores. However, All-American Art Heyman may make up for any needs
the Devils may have. Best of the sophs is 6-4 forward Jeff Mullins, described by Coach Vic Bubas as “the
Jerry West type of player.”

D Club Initiates 34 New Members

The Davidson College Monogram Club, better known as the D Club, held its fall initiation this past Tuesday night, President
Bruce Usher announced. To become a member of the D Club one must have a monogram, either for participation in
or for managing a varsity sport, and one must be invited. New initiates numbered 34 and included the following: Frank
McPhillips, Tom Tuttle, Kent Tucker, Morris Williams, Fred Schoen, Jerry Sheffield, Tom Hamilton, Michie Slaughter, Jimmy Young, Andy Glarner, John
Sharpe, Dave Lopp, Russell Walls, Bob McDonald, Britt Smith, Ronnie Lewis, and Carl Rust. Also initiated were Bob Leslie, Tarby
Bryant, Walt Eckman, Paul Watson, Mike Owen, Bill Wallace, Bob Cordle, Barry Billington, Mike Nemir, Keith Fraser, Ed Brown, Tim
Spiro, Ken Kelley, Joe Ansley, Winn Hall, Dick Voorhees, and Joe Jones.

Following Pfeiffer, Davidson will meet 3 more teams before the season ends. Clark, a 6-1, 195-lb. senior from Statesville, N.C.,
is the only Wildcat to receive recognition on this year’s All-Conference team. He is highly renowned for his hard-nosed brand
of football, and he is regarded by many as the best defensive end in the conference. In addition to his
defensive ability, Clark was one of Davidson's top pass receivers this year, and he pulled down 3 touchdown passes.

No one team dominated this year’s squad. The Citadel, conference champs, placed two men on the first team as did
George Washington, Richmond, and West Virginia. The team was unique in two ways: for the first time since 1955, VMI
did not place a man on the first unit, and there were no quarterbacks on the first team. The team
is chosen in balloting among conference coaches, members of the Southern Conference sportswriters association, and area sportscasters.

The mermen will be in good shape for the meet and says, “Each man will give 100 percent effort.” “Although
we are lacking in depth,” Shoe continued, “the boys seem more interested and are more willing to work than last
year’s team.” Last year the Wildcat swimmers won pretty handily over the Clemson team, but with the help of some
good sophomores, the Tigers are certain to give a better showing this year. The Davidson freshman team also looks very
good in practice and is considered to have more depth than previous freshman teams. Looking exceptionally well are Jim Alexander,
Jim Grey, Steve Davidson, and Purk Purkerson. The freshman and varsity teams will travel to Boone to meet Appalachian in
another non-conference meet.

Soccermen Finish Winning Season

The soccer team closed its season on a winning note on the Saturday prior to Thanksgiving with a 4-3 overtime
victory over Emory in Atlanta. Walt Eckman booted in the winning goal, but Greg Winkler’s two penalty kicks had kept
the 'Cats in the game prior to Eckman’s clutch kick. Thus Coach Harry Fogelman’s men closed out a hot and
cold 5-4-1 season, hampered by injuries and other difficulties.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST

FIRST TEAM
Pos. Player School Hgt. Wgt. Class
E Bill Gilgo The Citadel 6-1 195 Sr.
E Andy Guida George Wash. 6-2 190 Sr.
T Bill Winter West Va. 6-1 230 Sr.
T Gene Breen VPI 6-2 201 Soph.
G Eric Erdossy Wm. & Mary 6-0 200 Sr.
G Keith Melenyzer West Va. 6-0 200 Jr.
C Don Christman Richmond 6-0 215 Sr.
B Dick Drummond George Wash. 6-1 208 Soph.
B Earl Stoudt Richmond 5-9 175 Sr.
B Earley Eastburn The Citadel 5-11 180 Sr.
B Tom Campbell Furman 5-9 195 Sr.

SECOND TEAM ALL-SOUTHERN CONFERENCE — ‘61
Ends—Ernie Phillips, William & Mary, and John Hilton, Richmond.
Tackles—Joe Teefey, Richmond, and Joe Moss, VPI.
Guards—Gary Scollick, George Washington, and Gene Dice, The Citadel.
Center—Larry Jepson, Furman.
Backs—Bill Whaley, The Citadel; Glenn Holton, West Va.; Billy Canty, Furman; and Warren Price, VPI.

HONORABLE MENTION
Ends—Booker Clark, Davidson; Art McGee, Richmond; Charlie Brendle, The Citadel; and Ken Herock, West Va.
Tackles—John Sapinsky, William & Mary; Bill Hoehl, VMI; John Tew, Furman; and Steve Bartnicki, George Washington.
Guards—Gil Minor, VMI; Bob DeLorenzo, West Va.; and Ed Harrington, The Citadel.
Center—Pete Goimarac, West Va.
Backs—Stinson Jones, VMI; Fred Colvard, Jim Moss, and Roger Holdinsky, West Va.; Tony Carmignani, Furman; and Roger Hale, William &
Mary.

THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: BILL PIGOT

Six years ago Bill Pigot graduated from college with an engineering degree. Today he is responsible for the performance of
12 microwave relay stations, numerous communications cables, and other equipment. He also supervises the work of some sixty transmission specialists.
Bill Pigot of Pacific Northwest Bell Telephone Company, and the other young engineers like him in Bell Telephone Companies throughout
the country, help bring the finest communications service in the world to the homes and businesses of a growing America.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
