CAGERS FACE ACC FOE CLEMSON FOR THE FACULTY. A BUILDING PLAN (See Page Two) VOL. XLIX

Shue Joins Long List Of Notable Scholars

The same week that Dean Rusk, the sixth of Davidson’s Rhodes Scholars, was notified of his appointment as Secretary of
State, Henry Shue was notified that he would be the 13th Davidson graduate to hold the Rhodes Scholarship. He follows
in the footsteps of twelve men who have made, and are still making, notable records in the fields of theology,
history, zoology, philosophy, economics, politics, and literature.

RANKS SECOND

Shue’s election as a Rhodes Scholar makes Davidson second in the South in the total number of Rhodes Scholars. The
University of the South (Sewanee) is in first place with a total of fourteen. Because of an enrollment of only
600 students, Sewanee is also leading in the South percentage-wise.

From the very beginning, Davidson's Rhodes Scholars have excelled in the professions they chose. Dr. Wilson P. Mills was the
first Davidson graduate to receive a scholarship in 1904. He graduated with honors in theology from Christ Church College, Oxford,
and served as a Presbyterian missionary in Nanking, China until his death.

SEMINARY PRESIDENT

Dr. Benjamin Rice Lacy was the second Rhodes Scholar from Davidson. Dr. Lacy has served as an evangelist, a chaplain
in World War I, a minister, a teacher, president of Union Theological Seminary, and is currently chaplain at Hampden-Sydney College.

The class of 1918 gave Davidson Dr. Shelby T. McCloy, who studied theology at Oxford, and who has since taught
history at Duke and at the University of Kentucky. He has written several books and his name appears among those
in Who's Who in America.

TRUSTEE HEAD

J. McDowell Richards traveled from Davidson to Oxford in 1923. After serving as a minister and as moderator of the
Synod of Georgia, he became president of Columbia Theological Seminary, and president of Davidson’s Board of Trustees.

Robert F. Davidson, brother of Dr. Chalmers Davidson, studied theology at Oxford and then turned to the field of education.
He is currently on the faculty of the University of Florida. Dr. Davidson is the author of Philosophies Men Live
By, the textbook currently used in Philosophy 31.

Other Davidson Rhodes Scholars active in the field of education are now engaged in other work. David Dean Rusk, ’31,
received honors degrees from Oxford in philosophy, politics, and economics, and then became assistant professor of history and government at
Mills College, Calif. From there he set out on his career of public service.

LAST TO TEACH

The seventh and last Rhodes Scholar from Davidson to teach was Dr. Carleton Chapman, a 1936 graduate who received his
MD at Harvard after studying at St. John's College, Oxford. He has served on the faculty of the University of
Minnesota and also of the University of Texas. During World War II, Dr. Chapman served in the United States Public
Health Department, and later, on the American Board of Internal Medicine.

Rhodes Scholar number ten was Hubert N. Cannon. He is the new assistant to the governor of North Carolina. After
studying at Oxford, Cannon went on to obtain a law degree from Harvard.

Presently in biological research for the U. S. Army, Dr. James J. Murray Jr., Davidson’s ninth Rhodes Scholar, received his
degree in zoology after study at Merton College, Oxford, which he entered in 1952.

TURNED AUTHORS

Davidson's two most recent Rhodes Scholarship winners, Jason D. McManus and Frederick G. Myers, both of whom entered Oxford in
1957, have turned to literature. After winning every literary prize Davidson offered, McManus continued his studies at Princeton School of
Public and International Affairs, before going to New College, Oxford. A writer of short stories, he is presently employed by
Time, Inc.

Frederick Myers finished Davidson in three years, spending his junior year at the University of Paris. His plans were to
continue the study of English at Oxford.

The ROTC Department has ordered all MSIII and MS IV cadets who are taking ROTC second semester to report to
the upper drill field (football practice field) in uniform at 2:30 p.m. on Jan. 10. First semester officers will turn
over command of their units to the second semester MS III’s and MS IV’s during a formal parade ceremony on
Jan. 31.

The Davidsonian - The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 1961

CHEAPEST WEEKEND IN YEARS (See Page Three)

NUMBER THIRTEEN

IFC Contracts The Drifters For Midwinters Weekend

RHODES SCHOLAR

Henry Shue reviews the library’s gallery of his predecessors. Shue, Davidson’s 13th scholar, is one of four Southern winners who
were selected on Dec. 17. Shue is from Staunton, Va., and in addition to serving as student body president is
a Phi Beta Kappa. He is majoring in philosophy and psychology. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells)

By BILL HAGEN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Clemson Jungaleers To Play Dance Music

The Clemson Jungaleers and The Drifters have been contracted by the Inter-Fraternity Council for Midwinters Dance Weekend, Feb. 10 and
11. At $4, the Midwinters dance ticket will be the cheapest in several years.

The Jungaleers will start off the weekend by playing at the Friday night dance, a coat-and-tie affair. The 15-piece band,
similar to The Duke Ambassadors, who have played here recently, will provide music from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in
the gym, which will probably be decorated in a Valentine motif.

Saturday, The Drifters, backed up by The Doc Bagby Combo, will be featured at an afternoon concert beginning at 2
p.m. in Chambers. Then they will play at the Saturday night dance.

Spirited Majority Gives Faculty Drink Problem

The Davidson student body voted overwhelmingly yesterday to abolish the “under the influence” clause of the Student Body Constitution. The
vote was 460 for deletion; 90 against.

The clause, which is Article 10, section 3 of the Student Body Constitution, reads, “No student shall be guilty of
being under the influence of alcoholic liquors while on campus.”

Although by their vote the student body has relieved itself of dealing with violators of the old rule, the “under
the influence” rule is still in effect on the Davidson campus due to a similar rule in the faculty’s Regulations
for Students in the Red Book. In effect, the deletion relieves the student body from enforcement, placing such responsibility entirely
on faculty.

New IFC Regulations Limit ‘61 Greek Week Activities

The Interfraternity Council this week laid down the schedule and regulations for this year’s Greek Week. This last week of
pledge activity will begin at 6 p.m. Jan. 30, and will end at 11 p.m. Feb. 4.

Copies of the new regulations have been posted in the fraternity houses. Several changes and additions have been made from
last year's rules. In accordance with the new Red Book regulations, all paddling, forced eating, “parlor games,” road trips, shoe
shining, required calisthenics, mud wallowing, required wearing of uncomfortable clothing, “stud cunning,” and any other personal humiliation are prohibited. Such
violations also come under

College Reveals Names Of 28 Early Acceptants

Under the new early acceptance plan, the admissions office has announced the acceptance of 28 freshmen for next fall’s entering
class. By this plan, superior students whose first choice of schools is Davidson may be admitted on the basis of
their performance prior to their senior year in high school.

Those having been accepted are Egbert Anderson, Pensacola, Fla.; Charles Beswich, St. Petersburg, Fla.; John Bordley, Winter Park, Fla.; David
Bostian, Charlotte, N. C.; James Bradley, Lancaster, S. C.; Richard Cathey, Decatur, Ga.; Bob Chumbley, Covington, Va.; John Crow, Rockdale,
Tex.; Tom Cobb, Ormond Beach, Fla.; Bill Ford, Rome, Ga.; Dick Guenant, Roanoke, Va.; Jim Hardwick, Myrtle Beach, S. C.;
Randy Hughes, McLean, Va.; Fred Johnson, Washington, D. C.; Walter Kennedy, Mooresville, N. C.; Mac Mays, Walhalla, S. C.; Smith
McKeithen, Old Greenwich, Conn.; Clark Morrell, Bethesda, Md.; Howard Morris, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Chum Roberts, Drexel Hill, Pa.; Boyd Scott,
Union, S. C.; Larry Scott, Webster Groves, Mo.; Bruce Swain, Clarkesville, Ga.; Ken Thompson, Bland, N. C.; William Thompson, Richmond,
Va.; Jim White, Abingdon, Va.; Bill Wideman, Arlington, Va.; and Alex Wyatt, Rome, Ga.

H. Edmunds White, associate director of admission, stated that he was very pleased with the group which has been accepted.
Twenty-three of the 28 had a B plus high school average or better. Thirteen wonVarsity letters, while 15 belonged to
either the National Honor Society or the Beta Club. Sixteen were or are presidents of their church youth groups. Ten
of the group were student council members and six serve as editors of either their school annual or newspaper. Their
average scores on the scholastic aptitude test (which may be expected to improve 30-40 points as senior scores) were 575,
verbal, and 638, math. This plan requires that the applicant not apply to any other college until Davidson has had
time to review his application. This ensures the fact that Davidson is the applicant’s first choice. Of course, the applicant
is released to apply to other colleges if his application is refused. All 28 who have been accepted have paid
a $100 deposit fee.

Each fraternity must submit a written, detailed outline of all Greek Week activities to the IFC by Jan. 20, for
approval. A pledge banquet and skit night have again been included in the week's activities, and each fraternity pledge class
is required to participate in at least one constructive project. Jim Anderson, Pi Kappa Alpha representative on the IFC, has
a list of several projects suggested by the IFC. He is responsible for coordinating the various pledge projects. No announcement
has come from the administration regarding the Fraternity Liaison Officer, who is to handle all violations of the regulations. IFC
President Jerry Cole expressed his hope that an appointment would be made before Greek Week begins. Professors T. F. Clark,
R. W. Tyson, and Col. W. L. Adams will judge the week's activities, and will determine the winner of the
IFC trophy for the pledge class showing outstanding participation and the most constructive project.

The student vote was a result of a unanimous move by the Student Council in its last regular meeting before
the Christmas recess to eliminate the controversial clause. The more than four to one majority easily met the two-thirds majority
requirement in the Student Body Constitution for constitutional amendments. As stated in the Constitution the change will go into effect
immediately. Although the influence clause (section 3) is still in effect and states: “No student shall be guilty of drinking
alcoholic beverages or having the same in his possession on the campus,” a faculty rule, ‘Revival’ Features Poetry Readings.

The Vagabonds in conjunction with Professor W. F. Goodykoontz’s Modern Poetry class will present a Modern Poetry Revival next Wednesday
and Thursday evening at 8:15 p.m. in the Dome Room of Chambers Building. There will be no admission charge. The
Revival will cover 100 years of contemporary poetry including poets from Walt Whitman to Allen Ginsberg. Goodykoontz stated that every
attempt is being made to make the program entertaining from a student standpoint with such aids as sound, lights, and
props being used. “The Vagabonds are more anxious about this than almost anything we have done. We are attempting to
develop interest in poetry and nourish a creative spark among students," Goodykoontz emphasized. The name Revival was given to the
performance because it will be an attempt to revive interest in reading poetry aloud and to revive interest in some
of the better poets who have been neglected.

The Vagabonds, a student dramatic organization, will present “The Matchmaker” on Thursday and Friday nights, Feb. 9 and 10. The
Friday performance will coincide with Midwinters Dance Weekend. Both performances will be held in the Dome Room of Chambers Building
and the admission for those without season tickets is 75 cents. The play will begin at 8:15 p.m. Thursday and
at 7 p.m. Friday. “The Matchmaker,” a farce by Thornton Wilder, enjoyed a long and successful run on Broadway. It
involves the efforts of a cantankerous, penny-pinching widower to find another wife and the plotting of the matchmaker, Mrs. Dolly
Levy, to aid him in his quest. Mrs. Frontis Johnston portrays Mrs. Levy, the lead character. Mrs. Johnston played a
leading role in The Vagabonds’ first production, “The Madwoman of Chaillot.” Other important roles are taken by Dr. Sam Maloney,
Mrs. Janie French, Woody Manenwer, Neal Bushoven, Frank Douglas, Don Stowell, Lietta Mimi Martin, Pat Gohlke, Luther Williams, and Algie
Guess.

Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz announced that the deadline for submitting one-act plays to the contest sponsored by The Vagabonds has
been extended to Feb. 15. Plays should be taken to the Dome Room on any weekday afternoon. The winner will
receive $25 and his play will be presented by The Vagabonds who hope to present a series of three student-written
plays.

DuPont Co. Grants $4,000 To College

A $4,000 grant to Davidson has been announced by the E. I. duPont de Nemours and Co., Inc. of Wilmington,
Del. for the teaching of science and related subjects. The Chemistry Department will get $2,500 of the grant and $1,500
will go to other fields. Four other institutions in the state, Duke University, The University of North Carolina, North Carolina
State College, and Brevard College, also received aid from the overall college grant of $1.4 million. In all, 159 colleges
and universities shared in the big grant, allocated for fundamental research, for strengthening the teaching of science and related subjects,
and for facilities for education or research in science and engineering.

The Drifters

The Drifters originally started out backing up Clyde McPhatter and helped make popular such records as “Treasure of Love,” “Thirty
Days,” and “Without Love.” After parting with McPhatter, the rhythm and blues artists became popular in their own right with
“Ruby Baby,” “Lonely Winds,” and “Fools Fall in Love.” In recent years some of their more popular records have been
“This Magic Moment,” “Dance With Me,” and “There Goes My Baby.” They have two albums out, “The Drifters’ Greatest Hits”
and “Rockin’ and Driftin’,” both on the Atlantic label. Doc Bagby also has an album out called “In Silk,” on
the Epic label.

IFC President Jerry Cole remarked that it was due to the increase in demand for this type of music that
the Drifters were hired, and that if their dance was successful there would probably be more groups of the same
type contracted in the future.

Fall Schedule Upsets Freshman Camp Plans

College Chaplain George Staples expressed concern yesterday that the newly-instituted YMCA Freshman Camp may not be able to meet this
September. A tentative schedule for the school year 1961-62 sets Orientation to begin on Sept. 5, and Freshman Camp would
thus fall on Labor Day weekend. The Committee on Academic Scheduling, chaired by Dr. Robert S. Lord, will present its
work to the full faculty next Tuesday for approval.

Staples Not Informed

Said Staples: “I was never informed in any official way that the committee had the matter under consideration until Dr.
Lord showed me the schedule the committee had worked out.” Robert S. Lord is a member of the committee. Staples
had already contracted to use the facilities of Camp Stewart, used last fall, on September 5-7. He wrote Drake a
letter explaining the situation upon hearing of the proposed schedule. Drake agreed that he was not aware of the situation
when the committee first considered next year’s calendar. However, his committee met again on Dec. 28 to discuss the situation
“in light of the questions Dr. Staples had raised. We came to the conclusion that the only thing to do
was to go ahead as planned in order to meet other requirements.”

Among the recommendations for an academic year schedule have been: 8-day exam periods; a 2-day semester break; 2 full weeks
at Christmas; commencement on the last weekend of May or the first weekend in June.

Ringe Foresees Problems

Charles Ringe, director at last year’s Freshman Camp, foresaw problems in attempting to hold the camp on Labor Day weekend.
“We could not get the staff back since many will hold jobs running through Labor Day,” he said. Also, he
noted that it would be difficult to get a camp site for the busy holiday weekend. The YMCA Cabinet has
unanimously recommended that the Freshman Camp be continued. Staples and Ringe have requested a hearing for their case before the
faculty, and hope to have the 1961-62 year begin later. President D. Grier Martin, himself a member of the Y
Cabinet, has promised them a hearing. Said Martin: “I hope we can work out some sort of arrangement whereby this
complex situation can be worked out.”
