PAGE FOUR

Pilot’s Strange Gift Put His Name On Chambers
By JIM WILLIAMS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

In the depth of the depression years, Davidson received one of its strangest gifts. An early aviator who buzzed over this area of the Carolina Piedmont was responsible. Major Howard Davidson, so the story goes, was the crusty commander of the United States Air Corps at Bolling Field, Washington, D. C. He made several flights over North Carolina, and often noticed the neatly arranged brick buildings some twenty miles north of Charlotte. Finally, while on a flight from Brownsville, Texas, to Washington, D. C. in August 1931, the major landed his plane near these buildings, and set out on foot to find out for himself what they were. Ultimately, he was ushered into the office of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College.

Major Davidson was particularly impressed when he learned the name of the institution. He explained to President Lingle that pilots could not see the name of the school because there was no air marker. Accordingly, he offered personally to pay the expenses of painting the name “Davidson” in 12-foot letters on top of the roof of the newly built Chambers Building.

Vespers Offering Goes For Legal Aid

The vespers offering last Sunday was $71.65, the largest offering of the year with the exception of the Christmas vespers offering. This offering went into the Legal Aid and Scholarship Fund established by the National Student Christian Federation. The purpose of this fund is to aid financially any student who needs legal aid as a result of seeking equal rights for all persons. This would include such things as “sit-ins” and picketing for the cause of integration. The decision of the YMCA Cabinet to contribute the offering to the NSCF was made prior to the movie picketing which occurred in Charlotte recently.

Whether Major Davidson was motivated more by a desire to see his name painted on the buildings below, or whether he wanted his pilots to have a marker on a prominent feature to navigate by has never been ascertained. Nevertheless, Dr. Lingle replied that he would be glad to investigate the cost of such a project and to let the major know. After showing the visitor around the college, Dr. Lingle, saving the best until last, remarked, “And did you know, Major Davidson, that over sixty percent of our graduates enter the Presbyterian ministry?” “Aw hell!” came the reply. “That's awful, ain't it?”

A few weeks later the college received Major Davidson’s personal check and the air marker was painted over Chambers. It has faded out since then. The 30 years of sunshine, rain, and snow have wiped the copper roof of the building clean. Further investigation reveals that possibly Major Davidson never landed his plane here at all; that maybe he simply corresponded with the college by mail. One thing is sure, however. In late October of 1931, any pilot flying over the school could see the name “Davidson” in white, 12-foot letters on top of Chambers.

AED Sets Meeting With AMA Officer

Dr. Julian P. Price of the American Medical Association will speak at the next meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honoring the medical fraternity on March 22. Dr. Price, who is chairman of the association's Board of Trustees, is from Florence, S. C., and is a graduate of Davidson. Dr. Price will speak on the functions of the American Medical Association itself. He will expound on its operations, how it affects the life of the average physician, what it is planning to do in the line of medical scholarships and several of its other activities. The American Medical Association is a nation-wide organization of medical doctors, and is an extremely influential group at the national level. The talk will be given in the Dana Science Building at 8:15 p.m. There will be an informal coffee-talk immediately following the program.

Falstaff Convulses Judges In Riotous Shakespeare Lab

Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz’s English 44 Shakespeare course is built around a special Monday afternoon lab during which students dramatize key scenes in the plays. These shots were taken during the production of the Falstaff scenes. At left, Jack Falstaff (Bill Moss) cuddles up to Doll Tearsheet (Buddy Rives). Top right, Judges Ben Sparks, Prof. James Gross, and Prof. Henry T. Lilly get “a kick out of Jack's ribaldry. Bottom right, Jack unloads his woes to drunken companions. (Davidsonian Photos by Millner)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Lester
Plott
Elliott
Lord
Rhodes
Frey
McGeachy
Schenck
Ghigo
Minter
Smith
Horton
Pierce
Threlkeld
Johnston

Water Dominates History, Culture Of The Netherlands
By HAN MENSINK
Richardson Scholar

Editor's Note: This is the thirteenth in a series of articles by Richardson Scholars about customs and characteristics of their homelands, or on their impressions of Davidson.

By the time, ten or a hundred years from now, men could have landed on the moon, it will probably be impossible to distinguish national characters on earth any longer. When people can get from Peking to Amsterdam, or from Melbourne to New York within an hour, no one will by his appearance show. But we have not reached that point yet. Nationality and language are still, to some extent, elements which bind together people of different characters and intelligence.

WATER BATTLE

The history of The Netherlands has been dominated by the water. If it were not for a never-ceasing association and battle with the water, The Netherlands would simply not exist anymore. This battle can be carried on only by the joint efforts of all, hence the capacity of the DutchmanFor co-operation, and hence perhaps too the rise of democracy without revolution, and with roots reaching back into the distant and famous past. For it is a long time since one man alone could take care of the protection of his dyke area. But the water is not just an enemy to be kept in chains: it has also a very useful function in providing an open connection with other countries and continents.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

where he comes from. The Netherlander is sociable too, because he is forced into co-operation; tolerant and moderate, because without, no joint work is possible; patient, because dealing with water and voyaging over the seas take time; and industrious, because without industry, no headway can be made against the water.

NOT STRIKING

In general, on closer acquaintance with the Dutchman, one will not be struck by such pronounced characteristics as the vivacity of the Italian, the Englishman’s self-assurance or the German fanaticism. The Dutchman has no characteristics that strike at once: one gets to know him through his work, and the organization of the few means of life nature has entrusted to him. He can be studied through the organized nature of the bulb fields, through the great dykes or the deltaplan, or in the enormous dairy factory at my home city, where all the milk of all the pedigree cows in Frisia is brought together.

Finally, although the word “Dutch” is often used in other countries to describe, as Queen Juliana has put it, “anything that is done differently or unusually,” the Dutch way of life is actually not very different from that of other peoples, and the visitor to the Netherlands will see little to make him run back home and write a book on “these queer Dutch.”

Fleming Will Speak On Military View

Wednesday night Major Robert W. Fleming, of the ROTC Department, will speak to the Westminster Fellowship on “The Military View of Man.” He will speak in the student lounge of the college church at 8 p.m. The meeting is the second in a series on Contemporary Views of Man, which is designed to present relevant concepts of man to students. Dr. John F. Dashiell, an eminent psychologist, appeared as the first speaker in this series, with a program on behavioristic psychology.

BETWEEN
(Continued from Page One)

Hartman, at Davidson on National Merit and Sears Merit Scholarships, is a fellowship winner in the field of French. President of the French Club and holding membership in the Eumenean Literary Society, and Delta Phi Alpha and Phi Mu Alpha honorary fraternities, he also belongs to the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

McFadyen spent his junior year studying in Germany. His fellowship is in the field of German. He is also a member of the band, the Phi Beta Kappa honorary and the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternities.

McKinnon, a National Merit Scholar and president of the Sigma Delta Pi honorary Spanish fraternity, won his fellowship in the field of Spanish. He is also a member of the French and Spanish Clubs, the Eumenean Literary Society, and the Sigma Nu social fraternity.

STUDY IN ENGLISH

Macris, winner in the field of English, is an English Honors student and Baker Scholar. He is president of the Sigma Chi social fraternity and a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

Shue’s fellowship was awarded in the field of psychology. He is president of the student body, a Charles A. Dana Scholar, and member of the Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa. He was also chosen to appear in Who’s Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities.

Guest House Will Change Hostesses

Mrs. Mildred Crowell Little has been recently appointed to succeed Mrs. J. B. Huntington as hostess of the Davidson College Guest House. Mrs. Huntington is retiring to marry Professor Oscar Thies. The marriage is to be March 30. After her marriage Mrs. Huntington plans to live in Davidson with her husband at his home on Woodland Street. Mrs. Little will take over her duties as hostess on June 1.

Mrs. Little has been associated with Davidson College for the past 15 years. Eleven of these years were spent as supervisor of dormitories. For the past four years she has been house mother to Kappa Alpha Fraternity. Mrs. Little stated that she was leaving her position as house mother because she felt the position of hostess would be less strenuous.

Robert Currie, business manager of the college, said, “We are sorry to lose Mrs. Huntington and appreciate her service as Guest House Hostess. At the same time, we would like to express how fortunate we feel in having Mrs. Little assuming the duties. We are pleased to have someone of her ability.”

CLASSES...

get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Concord
Concord, North Carolina

Lake Byers And Gene Knight

Representing Tate-Brown’s University Shop, Charlotte, N.C.

Invite you to come have A FREE COKE with our 3-cute Playgirls, JEANNIE, NANCY and SANDRA

COLLEGE UNION, Downstairs
10:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
TUESDAY, MARCH 14th

Come’n see, Come’n Buy that which you will wear for Summer, 1961 — The very newest fabrics and patterns in natural he-man styles. Batiks, Seersuckers, Dacron and Cottons, Dacron and Wool, Batiste Oxford and fine Pima Cotton. Suits, Sport Coats and Trousers by College Hall, Varsity Town, Haspel and Palm Beach. Walk Shorts, Swim Shorts in the popular Jamaica and Bermuda lengths. Shirts and Sport Shirts by Sero, Eagle and Manhattan. Belts by Canterbury, Rivetz and Greenhall. Neckwear by Rivetz, Reis and Renleigh. Hats by Dobbs. Jackets by London Fog. Famous lines for you to choose from.

ADMISSION FREE for Rush Wilson's - Tate-Brown’s PRESENTATION “FASHION FROLICS” featuring 13-DAVIDSON PLAYBOYS and 1-CUTE PLAYMATES

COLLEGE UNION AUDITORIUM
2 SHOWS: 7:30 p.m. and 8:45 p.m.
FREE-Door Prizes

WHEN YOU LOOK YOUR BEST, YOU DO YOUR BEST!

Bass Weejun Loafers and many more

Thursday night, March 23rd
FREE- Refreshments

FRIDAY MARCH 10, 1961