Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Search For A Silver Lining

Dr. Clem Rininger advised us in vespers Sunday night to look always for the silver lining. President Martin is trying
to find one this week (see story on page one). So are we, but with less success. News from the
Board of World Missions Tuesday came as a disheartening blow. Davidson will have no Congolese students next year. Maybe in
1962 is the word now. Thus ends temporarily a challenging chapter in Davidson history which began last February with a
short announcement by the trustees. Their surprise statement, in welcome response to a request by the Board itself, set off
a three-month chain of events which promised a real breakthrough in Davidson's provincial, conservative shell.

Since then, the administration and college family have done a most commendable job in preparing for one or more Congolese
students next fall. The only condition seemed to be that the college feel it was ready. It is—and that is
what makes it so hard to accept the Board's failure to assign us one of its ten available Congolese students.
The breakthrough came from their request; now, by their action, the program is set back a year.

Until this week, it appeared we would have at least two Congolese. The Congolese Committee was to hold its final
meeting of the year next Wednesday and wrap up its extensive and tireless consideration of possible problems. Monday, Jean Calvin
Mayimbu won the hearts of the college, as did Mrs. David Miller last week, in presenting the case for the
Congolese. Their advice and appeals were well received. Student volunteers had made arrangements to room with the Congolese. Mrs. Moore
was most pleased with student reaction, and experienced no problems in settling the boys in Duke and Richardson dorms. Talks
with the Congo over the ROTC Department’s radio furnished no good reason for discouragement. Everything was going smoothly.

If there is a silver lining, perhaps this is it. But, then the bottom fell out. After talking with President
Martin, we feel assured that there will be no letup on the college’s part. The Congolese Committee will continue to
function, and Davidson will continue looking toward the day the color barrier will be broken officially—on more than just the
trustees’ minutes. The trustees will be meeting again in two weeks. There COULD BE a silver lining in the possible
actions they could take. Davidson is now prepared for Negro students. Two places are reserved in the incoming Freshman Class.
They might still be filled if the trustees would alter their statement either to admit students, recommended by the Board,
from other African countries, or find qualified students outside the province of the Board. It could still be done.

It's That Time Again...

It all started that night a couple of weeks ago when upperclassmen were disturbed in their sleep by a disturbing
dampness—the freshmen had decided to have a riot, and Belk was a likely target. It seemed a little late for
this kind of thing, but maybe the freshmen deserved it. They never did get off a good one last fall.

Then it was the Chambermaidens. They still look like they had a hard night of it last week—somebody splashed yellow
and green paint all over their lovely forms. Must be some significance somewhere...

Another rash of car moving has also plagued several members of the college family—a blue Volkswagen looked awfully lost down
behind the Kappa Sig house for a couple of days. We understand that David Dakin’s problems have attracted much attention
all through the South. A Texas newspaper wants to syndicate the story, and college papers across the state have been
calling THE DAVIDSONIAN. (See story on this page.)

But last Monday night was the climax. Davidson’s First Annual May Hole Dance was undoubtedly the greatest impromptu display since
the chief brought in the flaming plum-pudding at the North Mecklenburg Volunteer Fire Department's covered dish supper in Chambers dining
hall.

Receiving inspiration from the calendar and perhaps an invitation to some celebration this weekend, ingenious Davidson students welcomed spring in
their own rite. The situation was perfect: the college provided the hole (soon to contain a flagpole) between Belk and
Chambers. The rain miraculously stopped about 10 minutes before the party started. The faithful began gathering, and after a few
moments of indecision, the celebration began, though not as elaborately as expected. The rain had soaked the crepe paper streamers
coming out of the hole. The four-piece band failed to show up. But nobody missed them. The limbo dancing, originated
in the torrid tropics by hot natives, took place by flickering torch light. Well after midnight the celebration broke up,
and weary students finally gave in.

Yes, it’s spring, and exams are coming. And Davidson Men are tensed and waiting. To take a little poetic license
with William Carlos Williams:

So much depends
Upon
A red-clay May hole
Glazed with rain
Water
Beside the white
Columns

D. B. S.

Calendar Killed Freshman Camp

September 1-4 Friday through Monday. YMCA Freshman Camp.

The above item, listed as the first event on the newly published school calendar for next year, is a sarcastic
epitaph to the death of the Freshman Camp. And the Scheduling Committee is the culprit, directly or indirectly. The Y
never had any intention of holding a freshman camp on those dates. They span Labor Day weekend, when neither a
majority of proposed campers or counselors would be through summer jobs and able to attend. A camp site, within reasonable
price, would be well nigh impossible. To be blunt, the camp would be doomed from the start.

Actually, the Y placed a request before the Faculty Committee on Scheduling when it began working on next year’s calendar.
On the basis of a highly successful program in its debut last fall, the Y had a good claim on
three “suitable” days before orientation. This claim was by-passed in the committee’s first draft. The Y approached the administration and
again placed a special request to salvage the camp, which was given the full support of the college the previous
year. Again the plea was overlooked in essence as the Y was graciously given Labor Day weekend.

We dare say the Freshman Camp of two days and shorter would be more beneficial than the present over-extended “freshman
indoctrination,” but that is not the present issue. Next year’s calendar convinces us that some student opinion should be solicited
by the committee, or preferably, that it should have a student member. Perhaps the Freshman Camp issue could have been
more suitably resolved. The ridiculous mid-term mid-week break might have been avoided. Such oversights as last year’s return from holidays
on January 1 might never occur.

There are many aspects to planning a calendar, and a student member would not solve every problem. But the move
should go a long way toward a more realistic schedule.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Jordan

BUSINESS MANAGER
Gene Adcock

Associate Editors
Rick von Unwerth

Feature Editor
Calhoun Admits Faults, States Goals Of Honors

By DR. R. J. CALHOUN
Assistant Prof. of English

I have agreed to make a brief statement about English Honors only if I might make it clear, first, that
I have had less experience with the program than other professors in the English Department and, second, that I have
no desire to escape any of the blame that may be mine for whatever is wrong with the program.

The most general aim of an Honors Program was stated concisely by President Frank Aydelotte, when he initiated the famous
Swarthmore program in 1922: “to free from the limitations of classroom routine those students whose maturity, interest, and capacity suit
them for independent work.”

What Mr. Epes has described is a situation in which the Honors student is freed from the classroom routine to
one just as dull and much more limited in scope than class work because of undue concentration on reports and
a term paper.

BROAD CONTENT

No student's capacity for independent work is tested by a series of reports on one term paper topic. Consequently, the
content of the subject matter must be broad, and reports should demand of the student a wider range of reading
and in-

ROTC FIELD DAY
Army Stalwarts Display

By RICK von UNWERTH
Davidsonian Feature Editor

The stirring strains of “Invercargill” blared across the field, and Richardson Stadium reeked with esprit de corps. Davidson ROTC was
having a field day. The U. S. Army's future stalwarts displayed their prowess in the arts of war; demonstrated to
their dedicated cadre that the intensive military training had not come to nought. Amid the enthusiastic cheers of their drillmates,
a chosen few prepared to mount their staunch and hardy teammates for a grueling four-lap piggy-back relay.

Standing on the steps of the west stands, Captain Pierce smiled down on his boys. On the other side of
the parade ground, the principle of the shot-put was utilized in a beautifully practicalexercise — the hand grenade throw. With
a three-hop wind-up, the apprentice soldiers launched such prodigious heaves as would do any frontline shavetail proud. Excitement ran at
a fever pitch, and the enthusiastic roar from the eager grandstand was so impressive that even the sunbathers on the
roof of Duke Dormitory stood up to look. On the fifty-yard line, operating rod catch assembly followed trigger housing group
at a blistering pace as four of the troops, urged on by their screaming comrades, disassembled and reassembled their beloved
M-1's. Thirty-four seconds flat!! It was a great day for the Army. Squad after squad assumed the field and paced
themselves through intricate maneuvers, demonstrating to the proud staff the utmost in military discipline. An equally exciting, though not nearly
as practical, volleyball game kept the hoarse companies on their collective feet. With indomitable spirit and fighting hearts, Tug-of-War teams
lunged back and forth, to and fro, up and down the gridiron in heated battle. It was a fitting climax
to a refreshingly different, albeit exhausting, drill period. ROTC has done it again.

— Leonard Richardson

Photographers: Jerry Abernethy, Don Saunders, Marty Lafferty
Managing Editors: John A. Carson, Bill Wycke, Mace Plaxico
Advertising Manager: Ed Willer
Sports Editor: Steve Clark
Circulation Manager: Jimmy Platt
Assignments Editor: Bill Hagen
Assistant Bus. Manager: Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

It is my personal belief that no Honors Program can succeed so long as what should be its primary goal
is not met — a goal best described in terms of the definition made by Eton’s famous Headmaster, William Johnson
Cory, of a good education as ‘acquiring more than just knowledge... learning to take mental notes under criticism.’

CRITICISM

The thinking of the student in his reports and in his discussions should be under the continual scrutiny and criticism
of his classmates and instructors. Before this aim can be accomplished at Davidson, however, both students and instructors will have
to regard criticism as neither an affront to pride nor an unchristian act. The instructor has the responsibility of setting
up problems which give his students opportunities to utilize their wide reading in an atmosphere charged with critical intelligence.

For one illustration of how this might be encouraged in a Modern Poetry Honors session, after wide reading in Wallace
Stevens and William Carlos Williams, the instructor might set up as a problem a detailed comparison and contrast between Williams’
poem, “El Hombre,” and Stevens’ “Nuances,” which is Williams’ poem rewritten in Stevens’ own style. As to the responsibilities of
the student, let me quote one sentence from the description of the Swarthmore program: “Each student has an equal responsibility
for the assimilation of the whole of the material and is correspondingly searching in his scrutiny of ideas presented by
his fellows or by his instructor.” No instructor and no student who cannot either give or take criticism should participate
in the program. In short, the essence of an Honors Program must be a cooperative search for truth by both
students and professors if it is to have any validity at all.

HONORS THESIS

In all fairness to the Curriculum Committee, I should mention that a possible revision of the Honors Program has been
under investigation. The possible additions of an honors thesis and outside examiners have been suggested. I would favor outside examiners,
for I think the knowledge that what is accomplished in an English Honors Program would be examined by men of
the caliber of Cleanth Brooks, Harry Levin, or Lionel Trilling (to mention a few possibilities) would highly motivate both student
and instructor to work more conscientiously.

“Among Christians, I Am Always Accepted”

By ERVIN DUGGAN

It is a new thing for us to be prayed for in chapel by a little black man from the
Congo. But Jean Calvin Mayimbu, laboring under the happy delusion that he was in church, did that Monday and the
hall was a little bit quieter than it generally is when we are prayed over by professors and fat divines
from the suburbs. Mayimbu made an undistinguished chapel talk. He was handicapped by an unfamiliar language and by the strange
misapprehension that he somehow owed us his gratitude. He made a talk that many considered too personal to be informative,
and he answered few of the questions which were puzzling students about the possibility of having students from the Congo
here in September. It was only afterward, in informal discussions and classes, that we could see the depth and bigness
of the man. Why had he skirted the sensitive issues in his talk? “I did not come to America to
judge this country or the church,” he said. “I came here to learn, and I will go back to Congo
to help my people. Segregation is not my problem—it is yours. I am no politician.” That didn’t seem much of
an answer. We pressed further, and soon the answer became clear: For Mayimbu, who comes from a country where tribal
warfare, not segregation, is the accepted form of human stupidity, segregation in America is at best a piffling problem. His
own church, he said, has defended Christians of rival tribes against robbery and death. (Needless to say, this doesn’t prevail
in the American church, where the man who sits by you on Sunday may be the one who robs you
on Monday.) Thus his anger was short-lived (though genuine) when he received a letter from a Presbyterian Church in eastern
North Carolina: “We are having an international students’ Sunday,” it said. “We of course cannot invite you to be with
us, since you are colored, but couldn't you send us a letter telling about yourself?” We asked Jean Calvin what
he thought of that attitude in the church. He shrugged. “It’s nothing. Just Satan at work, misleading them... I have
been many places where I was not accepted, but Christ is not there. I prefer to be among Christians, for
among Christians I am always accepted as a brother, just as you are accepting me as a brother.” A crude
over-simplification? Naive? Childish and fundamentalistic? Yes. But he believes it deeply, and a host of churchmen share his belief in
one form or another. Jean Calvin Mayimbu, with his luminous faith and his simple answers, embarrassed us. He chastened us
with his reluctance to judge, made us sorry we'd pressed so far. But talking to him was rewarding. Apparently we
won’t have Congolese students here next year after all. But the question will come up again, and the visit of
Mayimbu has provided part of the answer: If those who come here are anything like Jean Calvin Mayimbu, we can
look upon their presence not as a problem but as an opportunity.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Dakin’s Belated Jockey Causes Grave Concern

EDITOR’S NOTE: The following letter has been sent to approximately 30 different colleges including Duke, UNC, Agnes Scott, St. Mary’s,
The Citadel, Queens, Georgia Tech, Princeton, Ohio State, and Colorado School of Mines. It was printed in part in the
Charlotte News, and the Houston Chronicle asked Dakin’s permission to syndicate.

Athletic Supporters:

A grave situation has arisen at Davidson College in North Carolina which calls for the united support of neighboring Southern
colleges and sympathetic students in other areas of our great nation. Not since the Japanese Student Riots of the summer
of 1960 has such an appealing cause arisen on a college campus. The Davidson College Executive Committee has found it
necessary to restrict Mr. David N. Dakin, a talented young soccer player, to this campus for a two-week period for
his irresponsible failure last November to return an athletic supporter belonging to the College. The delay in the Committee’s action
has been attributed to the lengthy deliberation required for so serious and costly a matter. Immediate action has been taken
by the class of ’62, and the “David Dakin Jockey Fund” was founded at Davidson on April 27, 1961, to
defray the losses sustained by the College at the end of each soccer season when players fail to return their
supporters. We are now conducting our first annual Spring Fund-Raising Drive and earnestly enlist the support of students at our
sister institutions. Letters of sympathetic encouragement should be sent to the editor of The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C. However, our
major request is for equipment to refill our diminishing supply. Pertinent material contributions (preferably used) should be sent directly to
the Executive Committee, Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

Steering Committee
The Spring Drive
