LEWIS'S CONSERVATISM

CAGERS COME HOME, FACE FURMAN FRIDAY (See Page Two)

STIRS CAMPUS COMMENT (See Page Three)

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1961 NUMBER TWELVE

Forensics Victorious At Tourney

The Davidson debaters amassed accolades from the annual Appalachian Mountain Forensic Tournament at Boone last weekend. Davidson's two teams defeated
10 other colleges. The topic debated was whether labor organizations should be under the jurisdiction of antitrust legislation.

Davidson's “A” team, composed of Bob Llewellyn, Harry Daniel, Tom Paxton, and Bill Brown, won six out of 10 counts.
Junior Tom Abernethy and freshmen Bill Rule, Chester Davis, and Conrad Shumadine comprised the “B” team. These latter four, each
in his first year of college debating, won all 10 of their rounds against more experienced college varsities and took
a first-place trophy.

Davidson also returned with three individual winners. John Rankin won second place in oratory, Shumadine took second in problem-solving, and
Abernethy won an individual debater’s award certificate.

Twenty-one teams representing 11 colleges competed in the tournament, with Carson-Newman winning second place for the affirmative, and Maryville, second
place for the negative. This year the Davidson debaters have won 35 out of 48 rounds. Their next debate is
planned for mid-February with Florida State University.

Scripts 'n Pranks Delayed Until Feb.

The first issue of this year’s Scripts 'n Pranks will not come out until Midwinter dance weekend next February, according
to R. D. Jackson, editor of the college humor magazine. This was the official word from Jackson, who gave several
reasons for the delayed edition, which was originally scheduled to appear before Christmas.

Jackson's original plan had been to coincide the three editions with the three big dance weekends of the school year
so that “the creativity of the magazine's staff would not be wasted on the student body alone.” However, the Scripts
'n Pranks staff did not have sufficient time to prepare a good issue of the magazine before Homecoming, as the
copy must be sent to the printer a month in advance of the date of planned distribution.

Another problem arose when the Financial Committee cut Jackson's budget by $600 from last year's allotment, placing the quality of
a third issue in some doubt. Jackson therefore chose to eliminate the fall publication in favor of two good magazines
for the remaining two dance weekends, rather than run the risk of being short on funds in the spring and
having to release a weak third publication during Spring Frolics.

Catalinas Entertain At Union Yule Party

Featuring the dance combo of the Catalinas, the “liveliest door prize ever given at Davidson,” and holiday decorations, the College
Union hopes to make this year's Christmas Party the biggest and most successful one yet, according to Union President Jerry
Shelton. The party will begin at 10 p.m. Friday, Dec. 16, and last until 2 the next morning. The reason
for the late start this year is the Davidson-Furman basketball game, which will begin at 8:15 in Johnston Gymnasium.

TWO COMBOS HIRED

Music for dancing in the Morrison Hall Red will be provided for the entire evening by the Catalinas. In addition,
Shelton announced that he will secure the services of a local jazz combo to play in the basement of the
Union. There will be a twisting contest beginning at 11:30 in the Morrison Room, with the winners receiving a copy
of the record “Merry Twistmas” and a popular rock ‘n’ roll album. The contest will be open to professors as
well as to students.

Shelton said that a door prize ranging from $20 to $40 in value will be given. “And I can promise
a surprise for the winner,” he stated. “We hope we can get him to be as creative as the dance
that night,” he added. For the interest and amusement of those attending, Shelton is contacting a caricaturist.

STRICTLY ROCK ‘N ROLL

Highwaymen, Olympics Here For Midwinters

Student Council Protests Off-Campus Drinking Rule

BY LEE KIRBY Davidsonian Associate Editor

The Student Council at a special meeting yesterday adopted a request that the faculty alter its position on the college
regulation forbidding drinking at off-campus events. The Council approved the request by a vote of 13 to 2 in a
sitting held in the Blue Room of the Union at 5:30 p.m. Discussion of the issue was begun in the
regular meeting of the council Wednesday night. The group also selected the 1961-62 Elections Board on Wednesday. Other actions included
a discussion of the prohibition of pistols on campus, the constitutional amendment on firearms to be presented to the student
body next Monday, and a formal adoption of the Constitution of the National Student Association.

EARLIER ATTEMPTS

The council restated the attempts of three students—the president of the student body, the chairman of the Honor Court, and
the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN—to have the off-campus drinking rule clarified before any specific incidents were brought before the Executive
Committee.

In its statement to the faculty, the council asserts that the rule is both vague and inconsistent. It more specifically
protests the punishment given eight members of the soccer team recently. The council doesn't feel that drinking away from the
campus is in itself bad and feels the rule is unrealistic and unworkable.

POSITIVE PROPOSAL

As a positive proposal, the council requested that the faculty discipline students, not for drinking, but for misconduct at off-campus,
college-sponsored events. These cases would be tried only upon receipt of a complaint of “ungentlemanly conduct.”

One representative from each fraternity and four non-fraternity members were selected to serve on the board to control this year's
student body elections. Members are as follows: Bob Bradford, Beta; Skeeter Watson, KA; Bob Hord, Kappa Sig; Tom Calhoun, Phi
Delt; Lew Zirkle, Phi Gam; Bob McFarland, Pik; Tom Martin, FI; Kapm; Clay Adkins, SAE; Steve Burns, Sigma Chi; and
Miller Maddox, Sig Ep. The four independents elected to serve are:

No Saturday Dance: Shirley And Lee Sing

BY DICK BATES Davidsonian Staff Writer

A wide array of popular vocal talent including the Highwaymen, the Olympics, Shirley and Lee, and Johnny Jenkins, the Fabulous
Pinetoppers and Otis Redding will all perform at Midwinters, Feb. 10-11. To start the weekend festivities, the IFC will sponsor
a semi-formal dance in the gym from 8 to 12 p.m. Friday. The Olympics, Shirley and Lee, and Johnny Jenkins,
the Fabulous Pinetoppers and Otis Redding will all perform at this dance. The Highwaymen will present a concert Saturday afternoon
at 2 p.m. in Chambers auditorium. The IFC decided not to sponsor a dance Saturday evening because of the popular
feeling that there should be a reduction in the cost of the dance tickets, a reduction necessitated by the elimination
of the Saturday night dance.

Vespers To Follow

The annual Christmas Vespers program will be

Wayward Sheep Stars In ‘Second Shepherd's’

BY BOB REYNOLDS Davidsonian Staff Writer

The forthcoming Vagabond production of “The Second Shepherd's Play” will feature a newcomer to the Vagabond family, St. Michaels 0,
who will be one of the few animals in history to play the part of a human. In the play,
St. Michaels, bundled, blanketed, and placed in a cradle, must act the part of a human infant until he is
discovered for what he really is—a full-grown sheep. St. Michaels 0 will have a long way to go if he
expects to equal St. Michaels I, the star of last year's performance. “The first St. Michaels,” commented Neal Bushoven, co-director
of the play, “was a nice, quiet, ethical sheep who always

Rhodesian Speaks On African Tension

Musa P. Shamuvarira, student from Southern Rhodesia, will speak at an open meeting of the International Relations Club on Wed.,
Dec. 13 at 7:15 in the Morrison Room of the College Union. He will speak on “The Political Crisis in
South Africa.” His talk will deal mainly with the political and economic aspects of the South African situation rather than
the cultural. Shamuvarira is at present a student of politics at Livingston College in Salisbury.Presented it. Bie will be there.’
Dec. 10 be I Tam LA seemiseing! 3 th, PROFS V5. STUDENTS | Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols" an
ancient order of affair with be baeidye gam: antl coevien for Christmas celebration with prizes, to be held regions, will
be followed. This wistalrs in the University, and a service widely used in England today, notably at King’s College Chapel,
Cambridge. In the basement, refreshments will also be served. The service relates the entire Nativity story by reciting the text
from Genesis, The Messianic Hope as expressed in Isaiah and Micah, and the actual events surrounding the Nativity, which are
told in Matthew and Luke. The College Church on Sunday, played his part well—he never stole the show. Of course,
however, St. Michael caused not a few headaches among the Vagabonds. While necessitating the placement of gates over the floor
of the Methodist church he also managed to wander through the halls of Chambers. “One night," said Beethoven, “he managed
to get out of the shed and lead Don Stowell on a chase through the backyards of Davidson. He would
run for a few yards and wait for Stowell to catch up before running away again.” Finally, Stowell had to
appeal to the local police force for assistance in apprehending the culprit. When asked to comment briefly on the play
and its players, he replied, “The play is potent to do if I get a date.”

DECORATIONS UNUSUAL
“Yes," she said, “that it will be the liveliest prize ever given at this school, in addition to being quite
useful.” He declined to (Continued On Page Four) Stewart White, will be interspersed with musical selections by the Chapel Choir,
directed by Prof. Donald Plott. Preceding the actual service, which will begin at 7:30, the Handbell Choir from the Selwyn
Ave. Presbyterian Church in Charlotte will play a few selections. This will be followed by Handel’s “Concerto for Organ and
Orchestra,” performed by a string orchestra conducted by Bun Cite. In charge of decorations by the Male Chorus and the
bales from the shepherds and make them men. “If the production is up to past quality, the Vagabonds are certain
it will be a night well worth attending.”

Robinson Attends SCONA In Texas
Prof. Grier Williams and Dr. Robert S. Lord at the organ. Bob Robinson is representing Davidson College at the Seventh
Annual Student Conference on National Affairs this week at Texas A&M in College Station, Texas. Robinson was selected as the
Davidson SCONA representative by a faculty committee. At the conference he is participating in a series of discussions on topics
of current interest and importance. This selection received its American debut last month when the Male Chorus performed it at
the Convention of Sacred Music. Rounding out the program are the traditional Christmas melodies “On Christmas Night All Christians Sing,”
“Let All Mortal Flesh Keep Silence” arranged by Clokey, and the Kirk arrangement of “As Lately We Watched.” Also included
will be several combined choruses.

The purpose of the conference as set forth in the SCONA pamphlet is to “provide an appreciation of the complexities
of the foreign policy of the United States to an increasingly large number of college students of the South and
Southwest.” Through the serious exchange of ideas between college juniors from the United States, Canada, and Mexico, SCONA hopes to
help promote a generation of responsibly leaders in national and international affairs.

PISTOL PROHIBITION
The Highwaymen are currently one of the most popular groups in the country. Their recordings of “Michael,” “Gypsy Rover,” and
“Cotton Fields,” (Continued On Page Four)

IFC Presented Plaque At Boston Conference
BY CHARLES DIBBLE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Bearing the first runner-up plaque, IFC Secretary Wyche Fowler and Fraternity Liaison Officer John Kuykendall winged their way homeward Sunday
from the two-day National Interfraternity Council conference, which was held in Boston Dec. 1-2. IFC's, and undergraduates commented that a
talk on scholarship had been especially impressive: a faculty member of the University of Illinois charged that most students today
are suffering from “cocoonism” in that they are apathetic to scholastic excellence. Solutions were offered for the motivation of listless
students. One answer to the problem was the proposal that national offices send out representatives to stay for a week
or ten days with a chapter that is having difficulties. A more unpleasant measure offered was the suspension of brothers
by the chapter encountering scholastic troubles.

“DAVIDSON FORTUNATE”
Fowler was pleased to note that “Davidson is far better off than most of the rest of the schools in
that our fraternity system seems to be better organized, integrated, and functional.” He went on to say that he found
the conference “more helpfully oriented towards larger fraternities, but it presented many constructive proposals which the IFC will consider.” One
such proposal was that of a junior IFC composed of pledge class presidents and perhaps one other representative from each
fraternity. Its purpose would be to evaluate Rush Week and other fraternity matters using a weekly report. The group would
also be responsible for all pledge projects.

The award was presented to the local IFC as the result of competition among interfraternity councils throughout the country representing
a similar number of fraternities. Winner in the division in which Davidson participated was Gettysburg College, which has ranked very
near the top for three of the past five years.

BASED ON REPORTS
The judges’ decision was based on reports submitted by the competing organizations. IFC President Bob Waugh wrote the 15-page paper
which represented the local group. The report contained a summary of last year’s activities with reference to service to members,
college, and community. Also included was a statement of plans for the future. Waugh’s reaction to the honor was, “It
is a credit to the preceding year's councils and the proposed program of this year’s council.”

Assistant Dean Kuykendall attended the discussions for executive secretaries and deans. A number of topics were discussed including expansion of
national fraternities, public relations, evaluations, and financial responsibility.

FOWLER REPORTS:
Topics covered in the undergraduate discussion, which Fowler attended, ranged from pledge training to cooperative buying. When interviewed by THE
DAVIDSONIAN, he revealed that the Davidson IFC had been especially pleased with Davidson's showing as it was the first time
the Davidson IFC had entered the contest in several years; he lauded Waugh's report as “a very well-balanced paper.”

20 ATTEND
Approximately 200 attended the conference. Representatives from the national office of each member fraternity, deans from many colleges which have
active fraternity systems, and even trustees’ executive committees, and other interested parties were present.

Fraternity Parties Entertain Orphans
The fraternities will entertain the children from the Barium Springs Orphanage at annual Christmas parties to be held Dec. 14.
The children will arrive at the College Union at about 6:30, where they will be met by representatives of the
various fraternities. They have been divided into 12 groups according to age. After dinner at the fraternity houses, parties will
be held, and Santa Claus will visit each house sometime during the evening with gifts for the children. When the
parties are over, the fraternity members will escort the children back to the Union, where they will leave for home.

PRESBYTERIAN TRADITION
The Eumenean Hall received a whitewashing this week. As the Easter Davidson room, the famed site of all important college
policy decisions in recent years got a new coat of paint, the "Old Guard" was "table." By next week the
faculty, trustees’ executive committee, and even the president will be able to sit in a new light. (Staff Photo by
McCutchen.)
