PAGE FOUR

Polley's

“We are living in a religiously pluralistic society, and we need to understand and appreciate the beliefs and practices of
religious groups different from ours.” This is the reason for the Contemporary Religions Course as stated by Dr. Max Polley,
course instructor.

“In this one-semester course, new to Davidson this year,” observed Dr. Polley, “we will examine the essential doctrines and practices
of Judaism, Roman Catholicism, and many Protestant denominations, including Methodist, Presbyterian, Baptist, Lutheran, Assembly of God, Latter Day Saints, and
Jehovah's Witnesses. To aid in this examination, the class uses literature written and prepared by men from the religion or
denomination under study at the time. Visits by representatives of the religion, usually men well versed in the intricacies of
their beliefs, also supplement the ordinary classroom procedures. These visits are sometimes repaid by the class, as illustrated by ‘field
trips’ made in conjunction with their present study topic of Judaism,” Dr. Polley explained.

“Rabbi Samuels, from Temple Israel, the conservative synagogue in Charlotte, and Rabbi Gerber, from Temple Beth-El, the reform synagogue in
Charlotte, made recent visits to the class to talk and answer questions on their positions in the Judaistic faith.

“Last Friday, the class visited an evening service at Temple Israel to observe the ceremony of Bar Mitzvah, and this
Friday we'll visit Temple Beth-El to observe the same ceremony as conducted in the reform synagogue. Later in the course
we will make similar visits, for example, attending a Catholic mass.”

Charlotte Orchestra Sells Season Tickets

Herb Russell announced today that the 1961-62 season tickets to the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra performances have been received and are
on sale to Davidson students. Russell also released the schedule of performances of the Orchestra, including the guest performers for
each concert.

On Monday, Oct. 23, the guest soloist will be Ozan Marsh, famed pianist. On Monday, Nov. 27, Michael Rabin, violinist,
will join the Orchestra in a concert featuring Brahms’ “Violin Concerto.” Cornell MacNeil, a baritone from the Metropolitan Opera, will
be guest soloist on Wednesday, Jan. 17, and then on Monday, Feb. 12, the program will consist of an All
Orchestra Concert with the Queens College Choir, featuring an all-Mendelssohn program of selections from “Midsummer Night’s Dream.”

On Monday, March 5, in a concert of particular interest to Davidson students, the Davidson

LD heists Study At Contemporary Altars

BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“In so short a course, we of course cannot hope to make as intense an examination of the various religions
as some of the students would naturally like. However, the purpose of such a course is to reach and stimulate
interest in the students and encourage them to learn more if they so desire. Such information as is offered will
inevitably help the student to gain an insight into the nature, strength, and weaknesses of his own beliefs,” summed up
Dr. Polley.

RABBI GERBER, from Temple Beth-El, the Reform Synagogue in Charlotte, speaks to the class on contemporary religions about the Judaistic
faith. The class has visited Temple Israel, the Conservative Synagogue in Charlotte, and plans to visit Temple Beth-El also. (Davidsonian
Photo by Joe McCutchen.)

Davis Addresses Methodist Meeting

A Charlotte private school principal led the initial discussion of a series of programs with conservative thought at the Davidson
Methodist Church late this afternoon. Charles E. Davis talked with the Methodist Student Movement, which is sponsoring the series, about
“Conservatism in Education.” Davis believes public schools are completely deficient in Christian education, and it was out of this conviction
that he founded the Charlotte Christian School, which he now heads. Following Davis in the series on October 27 will
be another Charlottean, Edwin Jones, president of J. A. Jones Construction Co. Jones, a general

Preaching in the Divinity School

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Y Drive Termed “A Limited Success”

“A limited success” were the words used by YMCA Vice President Alec Morgan to characterize the outcome of the financial
drive. $2512 was received in donations and pledges during the drive, which ended officially on September 28th. This is 60%
of the stated goal of $4200 but still more than was collected in the extended drive of last year.

Morgan said the drive was a success since the money will be able to finance contributions from other Y activities.
Morgan said the drive did “very well as far as contributions per person were concerned,” but that the Y Cabinet
“was disappointed that a larger proportion of the student body didn’t contribute to the drive since the activities of the
YMCA, such as the Book-of-the-Year Program, forums, and volunteer chapels, will be of value to the entire college community.”

Two Theologians Speak At Vespers

Dr. James T. Cleland, the James B. Duke Professor of Preaching in the Divinity School at Duke University, will speak
to upperclassmen, and Rev. Duncan D. MacBryde, pastor at the First Presbyterian Church in Mooresville, will speak to the freshmen
at vespers on Sunday, Oct. 8.

Dr. Cleland, a native of Glasgow, Scotland, was educated at Glasgow University where he received his MA and BD. He
was graduated with distinction from the university. He then continued his studies at Union Theological Seminary, New York City, where
he obtained his STM and was graduated summa cum laude. Dr. Cleland is a member of ODK and Phi Beta
Kappa and received honorary DD's from Davidson College and Glasgow University. He has been teaching at Duke University since 1945.
Dr. Cleland has, in addition to his other accomplishments, lectured extensively and has written articles for several magazines.

Room Rules Are Set: Union Plans Parties

Reservations for rooms for the Homecoming weekend will be made Oct. 9 by residents of Belk and Richardson dormitories. Residents
of other dormitories may reserve rooms on Oct. 10. Mrs. J. B. Moore, in charge of reservations, emphasized the need
for compliance with these regulations as rooms are at a premium during the weekend. Reservations may be cancelled at any
time. If they are not cancelled, there will be a $2.00 fine. It is an honor offense to permit someone
to use a room for which he is not registered. Mrs. Moore also pointed out that no girl will be
allowed to reserve a room for herself.

The Union, in conjunction with the YMCA, is sponsoring two dance parties during Homecoming weekend. The parties will be held
from 10 p.m. until 5 a.m. Saturday morning and from 12 midnight until 3 a.m. Sunday morning at the pool
in Johnston Gymnasium. Many potted plants, hanging vines, and even a pagan Golden Idol will enhance the “Tropical Island” theme.
Refreshments will be served and leis and Hawaiian costumes will be given to students and their dates. The party is
open to anyone who wants to come. Students are advised to tell their dates to bring

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students this Sunday night after vespers:

Bailey
Cumming
Horton
Jackson
Plott
Rhodes
Smith
Polley
Johnston
Lammers
Lord
McGeachy
Minter
Pierce
Purcell
Schenck
Threlkeld

Pepper To Aviators: ‘Come Fly With Me’

BY WILLIAM WALKER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Davidson students who are interested in aviation will soon be able to take a ground school course which has proven
98% effective for passing the written exam. The course is open to all students including those who have had flying
experience but who need to pass the FAA exam to get their pilot's licenses. The forty-hour course will cost $40.00
and will be held on Monday and Thursday nights in the ROTC department during the first semester.

TAPES AND FILM

There will be a test at the end of each phase of the ground school, and a final exam at
the end of the course which isSimilar to the FAA exam. A bathing suit. AED Schedules its Initial Meeting

Wednesday, Oct. 11, at 8:15 p.m., Alpha Epsilon Delta, Davidson's honorary medical fraternity, will hold its first open meeting of
the year. Henley Hurt, AED president, and Bob Waugh, vice-president and program chairman, working with Dr. W. O. Puckett, have
invited two representatives from the Bowman Gray School of Medicine at Wake Forest to lecture on the school and present
a film on research now being conducted there. This will begin a series of meetings open to the entire campus
and featuring speakers from the entire eastern U.S. At each of the meetings, medical-scientific films will be shown which are
expected to appeal to all students, pre-medical and otherwise. Hurt and Waugh stress, also, that the fraternity especially invites interested
freshmen and sophomores, even though membership in AED is restricted to juniors and seniors. During the first part of November,
the present twenty members will initiate 15 to 20 upperclass pre-meds whose grades have qualified them for admission.

The course will be conducted with the aid of tapes and films. Whether or not it will be given the
second semester will depend on the students’ response to it.

GOOD RESPONSE

George Pepper, a senior, is getting the course organized with the assistance of Sgt. Howard Locklear of the ROTC. “So
far,” says Pepper, “we have had a very good response. There are ten fellows on the campus who fly a
lot, and ten more who have shown interest.”

FLYING CLUB

The course will be taught at Davidson by Mr. Jimmy Miller, of Mooresville, who is the flight instructor at the
Mooresville airport. Facilities for student flying at the airport include Piper-cubs, Piper tri-pacers, and Cessna sky hawks. Prices for flying
range from $10 to $17 per hour. “Eventually, we hope to start a flying club at Davidson if we get
enough people,” said Pepper. “Sgt. Locklear owns an airplane, and there is a second-hand Piper super-cruiser we would like to
get.” Pepper said that whether they could get the plane would depend on the number of people who were interested
in the flight club.

COUNCIL VESPERS POLICY

The Student Council, at its Monday night meeting, reaffirmed its decision of last year to uphold good conduct in vespers.
This move is, so far, only a statement of policy, since the council plans to report no names unless the
conduct at future vespers services deteriorates. This reaffirmation was precipitated by the vespers behavior this past Sunday.

Blazers

The Committee on College Blazers held a meeting during chapel period with the southern representative of a New York company
that specializes in blazers. The idea of the meeting was to get some basic ideas on the type and cost
of blazers available and to see what would be most appealing to Davidson students. Due to the growing interest of
students, the committee was established last spring to investigate the possibility of class blazers. The committee feels that blazers would
be an excellent way of improving college and class spirit. The committee plans to meet with two other companies before
deciding what steps, if any, might be practical in the re-establishment of blazers at Davidson. The committee hopes to have
some recommendations on the idea within two or three weeks. At that time, a poll may be made of classes
to sound out the feelings of the student body. C. Shaw Smith, Director of the College Union and one of
the advisers to the committee, emphasized that the student body would make the final decision on blazers. “We are not
attempting to dictate the tastes or interests of students, but to present all the facts on the idea. Any student
suggestions will be welcomed by members of the committee.” Committee members are as follows: George Trask, Jerry Shelton, Fred McGuirt,
Bill Wallace, Bob Stone, and Joe Martin. Mrs. J.B. Moore, Robert A. Currie, and Smith are serving as advisors.

A major part of the opening festivities for the fine arts building will be an art exhibit from the collection
of Harry Dalton. The exhibit will show forty-three paintings, ranging in value up to twelve thousand dollars, and will occupy
the entire front hall and two auxiliary rooms in the fine arts building. Robert Schlageter, director of the Mint Art
Museum in Charlotte, and Professor D. C. Houchens of Davidson College worked together with Mr. Dalton to find the exhibit
that would best suit the Davidson campus. The paintings will be representative of varied styles over a long period of
time. A portrait by Jacob Jordaens, a Seventeenth Century Flemish painter, will be the earliest work. Contemporary paintings and color
lithographs by such well-known artists as Picasso will also be on display. One of the most interesting paintings will be
Meditazione Autumnale by an Italian, Giorgio de Chirico, known as the man who heralded surrealistic (modern) art. Meditazione Autumnale, the
first of de Chirico’s metaphysical masterpieces, represents an autumn afternoon with connotations of nostalgia.

Prof. J. O. Embry requests that any senior interested in applying for a Fulbright Fellowship or any other graduate study
abroad program see him as soon as possible. Nov. 1 is the deadline for completing applications for most programs.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST SPAGHETTI

WHO tapped the sun for electric power by inventing the Solar Battery? WHO used the moon for two-way conversations across
the country? WHO made your pocket radio possible by inventing the Transistor? WHO guided Tiros and Echo into accurate orbit?
WHO maintains the world’s largest, finest industrial research facilities? WHO supplies the most and the best telephone service in the
world? WHO has the UNIVERSAL communications organization? THERE'S ONLY ONE ANSWER TO ALL TEN QUESTIONS: BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

Pioneering in outer space to improve communications on earth

Bring us your formal clothes - Tuxedos and Tux Shirts Formal Rentals JACKSON CLEANERS
