‘CATS BID TO LEAVE CELLAR (See Page Two) VOL. L The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1961 THE EDITORS TAKE IFC POLL (See Page Three) NUMBER EIGHT THE VAGABONDS WILL USE a relatively plain stage next week for their production of Anouilh’s “Antigone.” Different tiered risers, as shown above, will provide almost all the stage props. (Staff Photo by McCutchen.) Arts Building at 8:15 p.m. The play is The Vagabonds’ second production of the year. In the past two weeks, they have given five performances of “A Midsummer Night's Dream.” Queens students, faculty wives, Davidson students and President Martin's secretary fill the varied cast. The play is under the direction of Professor John Sneden, who has had the cast in rehearsal for a little over two weeks. ANTIGONE CAST Luckey Huskey, from Queens, plays the role of Antigone, while Walter Bost is King Creon. The chorus is portrayed by Pat Douglas. Other characters are the nurse, Cindy Trobrough; Ismene, Louis Hampton; and Haemon, Smith McKeithen. Minor roles are carried by John Morefield, Greg Govan and Al Edgar as guards; Bill Trotter, the messenger; Shaw Smith, Jr., page; and Eurydice, Janie French. Tickets, which cost 75c, may be obtained from the Union desk, the Fine Arts Building, or may be purchased at the door. Due to the limited number of seats, students are urged to purchase tickets in advance. IDEOLOGICAL CONFLICT Anouilh’s “Antigone” was written and first produced during the Nazi occupation of France during World War II, and surprisingly passed the Nazi censors in spite of its theme of the state versus the individual. Sophocles’ play is the concluding drama of the Oedipus cycle, and deals with the conflict of the state versus the individual. The plot concerns Creon’s refusal to grant burial to one of Antigone’s brothers, Polynices. Leaving the body uncovered constitutes a violation of divine law. Yet Creon proclaimed that anyone trying to bury the body of Polynices would be executed. Antigone, placing divine law over state law, buries her brother and the play develops the conflict between the two antagonists. Students To Attend UN Forum Eight students, instead of five as originally announced, will represent the college at the Mar United Nations Conference in New York next weekend. Clay Atkins, Bob Dixon, David Jordan, George Trask and Joe Whiteman were selected by a special committee Tuesday. Dr. Ernest Patterson, Dr. W. P. Concerning dates, Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories, announced that in no case will the dorms be open for girls that weekend. It is “unfair” to the residents of Belk and Richardson to make them move out for a fourth time,” she said. In the days immediately preceding the concert, on November 8, 9, and 10, the Vagabonds under the direction of Mr. John Sneden will present “Antigone,” an adaption of Sophocles’ play utilizing an abstract set and modern dress. As of now, the college knows of “only one person who might be suitable for admission to Davidson, a young man at the Pan-American School in Texas.” According to Martin, this boy is now a junior, and so would not be eligible for admission to Davidson until the fall of 1963. Martin outlined efforts the Fraternities Favor Rock and Roll Weekend For Midwinters IFC President Bob Waugh announced this week that the second dance weekend of the year, February 16-17, will have no regular dance orchestra and no formal attire will be worn to the Friday night dance. The Saturday night dance has been eliminated altogether. The IFC-sponsored program will include a “rock and roll” dance Friday and a concert by a popular comedian Saturday afternoon and a faculty reception. Waugh explained that the IFC was currently negotiating with agents for the Saturday afternoon concert. The Vagabonds are tentatively planning a production for Friday night. REFERENDUM The IFC acted this week following results of an all-fraternity referendum. Each fraternity was asked if it favored another dance weekend like Homecoming, the first of its type in over a year and a half, or an all “rock and roll” program. Fraternities voted eight to four for the latter. They indicated they would not support even a less expensive orchestra if one was obtained on this issue and a “rock and roll” weekend will probably be planned in accord with fraternity wishes. It is expected that no Saturday night dance will be held on that weekend. Most fraternities will begin their after-parties several hours earlier than usual on Saturday night, contracting their own combos. EARLY PARTIES For Spring Frolics, plans are much the same. Fraternity opinion on that weekend will probably be Martin Addresses Freshman Parents The annual Freshman Parents Day does not officially open until tomorrow, but informally it began tonight with a performance for the parents of several scenes from “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” which were presented during the Gala Performance last week. John Kuykendall, assistant dean of students, stated that more than three hundred parents are expected to be on campus tomorrow. During the morning the parents will register at the College Union and will then take part in a series of activities planned for them. These functions include a guided tour of the campus, a luncheon, an assembly in Chambers Auditorium with an address by Dr. D. Grier Reports Congolese Unavailable In Near Future BY DON SAUNDERS Davidsonian Associate Editor There is ‘no real prospect up to this point” of a Congolese being admitted to Davidson next year, said President D. Grier Martin this week. admission within the next two years, saying, “We have every evidence that he will improve in his studies and be a good candidate for the program. He is working toward medicine, but has some continuing language problem.” Martin concluded: “I think it would be unfortunate if we had to go back to an all “rock and roll” weekend this year. The change is both to give a weekend which will be enjoyable to those who didn’t like Tommy Dorsey and Ralph Flanagan and to save money on the dance tickets,” Waugh indicated. The tickets will cost between $3.50 and $4, as compared to $7 for Homecoming. Concert Series Opens With Brothers Four Cat Clash To Kick Off Weekend The Interfraternity Council has announced the arrival next Saturday of The Brothers Four in accordance with the contract signed earlier this year. Their arrival will initiate the first of several concerts planned by the IFC for their 61-62 Concert Series. The Brothers Four will give their performance Saturday night, Nov. 11, from 8:30 to 10:30 in Chambers Auditorium. Earlier that afternoon, at 2:30, the Wildcats will take on the Wofford Terriers in Richardson Stadium. Also, a number of fraternities have scheduled their Fall Functions or after parties for that night following the concert. Although the arrival of The Brothers Four does not coincide with the appearance of Johnny Mathis in Charlotte as originally planned, Bob Waugh, IFC president, did not express any undue concern over the failure to coordinate the two events. IFC Poll Questions Current Rush Policy The Interfraternity Council is conducting a poll among all fraternity members and pledges next week as part of its current study of the rush program on campus. In their recent meetings, both the IFC and the fraternity presidents have been discussing possible alternatives to having Rush Week the first week of the semester. The poll will solicit opinion on various delayed rush programs. Fraternity pledges will fill in the questionnaires at their meetings Tuesday night, IFC President Bob Waugh reported. Other fraternity members will be given the poll at the regular Thursday meetings. The IFC will use the results of the poll in continued study of rushing and future recommendations. The poll reads as follows: I. Do you favor delayed rush of some type? II. If yes, how long a delay would you favor? 1. after one month of classes 2. sometime around Thanksgiving 3. second semester 4. sophomore year 5. otherMartin, 6b. What inherent advantages do you anticipate in a delayed rush program? What inherent disadvantages?

To climax the day, the parents will see Davidson's freshman footballers play host to Ferrum Junior College in a night game. Those appointed by the Freshman Council to organize the various events of the day include Pete Coggeshall, head of the publicity committee; Dan Campbell, the organization of tours; Jerry Martin, in charge of reception; and Dick Bates, in charge of registration.

II. Do you favor the system of rush used last year, when there was a minimum overlap with classes?
A. What modifications would you propose to this system with regard to open house, dorm rushing, present series of rush parties?
B. What inherent disadvantages do you see in the 1960 system?
C. What inherent advantages?
1. Further Comments.

Six Davidson Students Meet Marlene Schmidt
BY LEE KIRBY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“Ladies and Gentlemen, Miss Universe of 1961!" The advertising manager of the Royal Crown Bottling Company threw open the door to the private dining room of the Barringer Hotel in Charlotte. Six German-speaking students from Davidson craned their necks for a view of the tall, smiling blonde they were to eat breakfast with.

LUCKY HUSKEY, a Queens student, plays the lead role of Antigone opposite Walter Bost as Creon in the production to be given three times next week. Student tickets are available for 75c.

Student Activities Questionnaire
BY DAVID STITT
Davidsonian Staff Writer

A questionnaire designed to provide detailed information concerning the present and past roles of all extra-curricular organizations on campus has been distributed this week to each of the presidents of the various groups. This “Student Activities Evaluation Form” has been prepared by the Student Council in conjunction with Dean Burts and the Coordinator of Student Activities, C. Shaw Smith; the information received from the groups will be used to aid in the reevaluation of the college's role in cooperating with these organizations financially and administratively.

Dean Burts pointed out that the questionnaire would help greatly to determine which extra-curricular organizations on campus are active, alive, and fulfilling their stated purposes, as well as revealing which groups are not fulfilling any particular purpose and which could use help in revitalizing their programs.

On the questionnaire, the president of each extra-curricular organization is requested to state the purpose of the group, its activities directly related to goals, and its special projects for the future. Also requested is the president's own evaluation of current activities of the club, a list of goals and activities followed by the club in past years, and how the president feels the college could best help the club become revitalized. The questionnaire asks each group to submit its 1961-62 budget, its sources of finances, a list of qualifications for membership, and an estimate of how much time per week the average member spends on club activities.

(Continued On Page Four)

Three other entrants, not selected, indicated a willingness to attend if possible even at their own expense. They were Danny McRight, Phil Arnold, and Joe Robinson. The College was only able to furnish $200 toward expenses, and that was the reason for arbitrarily sending five delegates. Those selected agreed Wednesday though to share the money eight ways instead of five to help the other three students with expenses. The eight will attend sessions both Friday and Saturday. The theme of the conference, “Vital Issues From a National Viewpoint,” will cover such topics as the role of non-aligned nations, African development, representation for Red China, and the general theme of “Vital Issues From a National Viewpoint.” The highlight of the meeting will be an address by Jawaharlal Nehru, Prime Minister of India. The conference for student leaders was called at the request of the Indian Consulate in New York. Briefings, lectures, and discussions will cover such topics as the role of non-aligned nations, African development, representation for Red China, and the general theme of “Vital Issues From a National Viewpoint.” The conference concludes Saturday afternoon but the delegates expect to stay an extra night in New York and return to Davidson Sunday.

AVOID LETDOWN

At that time the Trustees agreed to admit Congolese if they had the recommendation of the Presbyterian Board of World Missions and could meet the college's entrance requirements. A committee, set up last year to investigate the problems arising from the admittance of a Congolese, has not been reactivated. Dr. D. D. Rhodes, professor of Bible and philosophy, was chairman of the committee, which was made up of students, townspeople, and members of the administration. Martin said that he and Rhodes agreed it would be “unwise to activate the committee now,” since last year a great deal of discussion was touched off, and there was a let-down when no one was found eligible.

GOOD CANDIDATE

However, Martin went on to say, “If we can get other Congolese students, say from Union Seminary in Richmond, to come to visit the campus, the committee might meet with them.” He also said that he had invited Dr. William Rule, a Davidson graduate working under the auspices of the Presbyterian Church in the Congo, to speak here while on leave. The President spoke further of the program, saying that an “intensive investigation” is going on to find a suitable candidate.

Highway Mishap Involves 3 Students

Three Davidson College students were involved in an automobile accident in Gaston County last Sunday at approximately 2 a.m. J.D. Simpson, Ed Willer, and J. M. (Mac) Smyth were the occupants of the car which was traveling toward Davidson from Converse College. Simpson, the driver, fell asleep at the wheel. The auto left the highway, went over a small embankment, turned over once while in the air, and landed on its top. The vehicle was completely demolished, but only Smyth received injury. Smyth, suffering from a brain concussion, was taken to the Charlotte Memorial Hospital. Both Simpson and Willer were released from the Gaston Memorial Hospital after being treated for bruises. Smyth’s condition was not serious, and he was expected to have been released from the hospital either yesterday or today.

Marlene Schmidt, an engineer from Stuttgart, entered the room and made her way to the head of the table where Pete Gerstenberg, Rudy Glarner, Gerhardt Hartman, Juergen Hey, Lee Kirby, and Dagmar Tauber waited for her. President Martin, being not so young and a bit more reserved, had declined to battle for the seats nearest the Queen.

“I just get tired of smiling,” Fraeulein Schmidt commented when the German-styled breakfast got under way. “I must always smile and be conscious of showing my best profile for pictures.” A flash bulb popped. The Davidson students formed a line to get their pictures taken with Miss Universe. She kept her smile, fixed but pleasant, until the Davidsonians started heckling one of their group who was not grinning broadly enough for the photographer. “Smile! Say Kaeese!” Miss Universe broke into almost girlish laughter, covered her face, and turned to the side.

DAVIDSONIANS WERE special guests of Miss Universe during her recent visit to Charlotte. Pictured with Fraeulein Schmidt above are Peter Gerstenberg, Lee Kirby, Dagmar Tauber (exchange student spending the year with Dr. Grier Martin's family), Miss Universe Marlene Schmidt, Gerhardt Hauptmann, Rudolf Glarner, and Juergen Hey. All are Europeans but Kirby, who studied in Berlin last year.