FRATERNITIES AND THE MAN (See Page Two) DOLE UNVEILS ‘61 CATS (See Page Three)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1961

79 PCT. TAKE THE LONG WALK
Cheers Greet 219 Pledges On Fraternity Court Today

Two hundred and nineteen freshmen took the long walk down Patterson Fraternity Court this afternoon to pledge the fraternity of
their choice. This represented roughly 79 per cent of the Class of 1965. Today’s pledging brought to a close one
of the most hectic Rush Weeks in recent years as both semester classes and rush parties began last Monday. The
first series of parties ran through Wednesday night with two nights of redates Thursday and Friday.

Cheers went up seconds after 3 p.m. when the first freshman indicated his choice and continued until pledging closed at
4:30. The pledging period was preceded by a period of silence which went into effect last night at 10 p.m.
No rushee could have further contact with any fraternity man until the close of pledging this afternoon.

The 79 per cent is slightly below the comparable figure of last fall, when 209 freshmen or roughly 81 per
cent pledged fraternities at the conclusion of Rush Week. These totals were altered somewhat with late pledging.

The following freshmen pledged fraternities:

ATO
Ed Rea, Frank Fee, Ronnie Reese, Asce Lee, Boyce Connell, David Grant, Warren Reid, Jim Brindell, Bob King, Smith McKeithen,
Bill Phillips, Lowell Kirkman, Chester Davis, Tom Boone, Bruce Rasmussen, John Alexander.

BETA
Jimmy Bradley, Tom Cobb, Pete Coggeshall, Van DeBose, Guy Ephland, Gene Farris, Edward Haselden, Don Howard, Albert James, Jimmy Lawton,
David Pfohl, Jay Rogers, Bill Schutt, Rick Smith, Edward Stopher, Alan

ROTC Corps Begins Year With Wray As Commander
By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Davidson College Reserve Officers’ Training Corps regrouped its forces on paper this week for an opening organizational drill Tuesday
after a six-weeks’ summer camp termed ‘a mighty team effort” by Capt. D. H. Threlkeld.

NUMBER ONE
Cadet Col. Linton Wray, who has been tapped Cadet Corps Commander, ran down the list of some 775 students who
will participate in the ROTC program this school year and said, “We've got things under control.” Assisting Cadet Col. Wray
in local ROTC drills this fall will be Cadet Lt. Col. Walker Clark, corps executive officer; Cadet Majors Duke Davis,
adjutant; Lowry Reid, intelligence and training; and David Page, supply.

RECORD CLASS
Jim Alexander has been named Cadet Corps Commander for next semester. The number of men in Davidson’s advanced ROTC classes
this year is the largest in the college's history — 266. Tuesday will be organization day and “things will really
kickoff the following Tuesday,” Capt. Threlkeld said.

The only major change in the Davidson College ROTC Corps for the Fall Semester of 1961-62 is that the new
Professor of Military Science and Tactics, Lt. Colonel Paul R. Wheaton, will be instructing the MS II's. In explaining his
added duty of instructor, Colonel Wheaton pointed out that the Davidson Corps is currently short two officers — both Majors.
However, he is expecting these vacancies to be filled during this school year.

SUMMER CAMP
Capt. Threlkeld, instructor for juniors who attended the training camp at Fort Bragg, reported only one casualty among the 110
participants — Pat Rush lost a tooth in parachute training. Although Davidson placed no top individuals in competition among men
from 30 U.S. colleges and universities, numerous outstanding team performances were noted after a myriad of military training exercises. Of
the nine top M-1 firers, three were from Davidson: Bob Barringer and Marvin Rozear, both members of the Wildcat rifle
team, and Bill Gerhardt. Forty of Davidson’s 110 men were honored as Distinguished Military Students and local cadets placed second
as a team to Wake Forest in rifling with a 183 average, just three notches below the sharpshooter class.

CHAMPION MAP READERS
As a group in map reading Davidson topped all other schools with 96.6 points out of a possible 100. Five
Davidson men, including Cadet Col. Wray, were picked for the colonel’s orderly, a daily selection which honored 38 men. Ranking
in the top 10 per cent of their companies were 12.7 per cent of the Davidsonians and 35.4 per cent
of them placed in the top one-third of their companies. The camp was at Fort Bragg and began in June
and continued through July. The men took training in communications, map reading, rifle instruction, machine gun and mortar firing, combat
and reconnaissance patrols and tactical maneuvers, including a week-long bivouac climaxed by a tactical attack on the “enemy.”

DEAN BURTS AND Bob Stone chat with freshmen Bob Chumbley, Lee Pitman, and Ronny Rudolph. Dean Burts was also becoming
acquainted with Davidson as were 275 freshmen. (Davidsonian Photo By Joe McCutcheon.)

Newell To Accept Richmond Call
Dr. Samuel W. Newell has accepted the pastorate of the River Road Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Virginia after resigning the
pulpit in the Davidson College Church on September 3. Eight members of a pulpit committee of nine have been selected
in two congregational meetings.

The forty-three year old minister terminates eight years of service as pastor of the College Church. Dr. Newell has played
an active role in the intellectual and religious life of the college, serving as a member and as president of
the Board of Directors of the YMCA. After two meetings of one hour each, in the church on September 3
and 10, the congregation of the Davidson Church has filled all but one of the places on the Committee for
nominations for a new pastor. Dr. W. G. McGavock, Dean F. W. Johnston and Prof. J. C. Bailey represent the
session on the committee; Dr. Robert M. Withers and E. T. McEver the Board of Deacons. Miss Grace James and
Mrs. Paul R. Maulden have been elected from the Women of the Church and Miss Margaret Bourdeaux from the Senior
High Fellowship. One adult member remains to be elected from the congregation at large. Dean Frontis W. Johnston heads another
committee to supply the pulpit until the position is filled permanently. Dr. J. R. Cunningham, President Emeritus of the College
will preach Sunday, September 17.

Rhodes Tells Of Failure To Secure Congolese Pupil
Donations for the support of a Congolese student at Davidson are still coming in, according to Dr. Dan Rhodes, chairman
of the Congolese Committee, though no Congolese could be accepted this year. The Congolese fund, including pledges, stands at $1,420,
of which $810 has been collected. This does not include those pledges which stipulated that the money be used this
year. The donations were made as a result of the drive started last spring, when it was learned that Emmanuel
Nsuba, a Congolese student now attending high school in this country, might come to Davidson. Previously the two Congolese students
the Board of World Missions at Nashville was to have sent to Davidson, had been assigned to Switzerland instead, because
of language difficulties. Letters were sent out late this summer to those who had pledged their support to the Congolese
fund, reminding them of their pledges. The difficulty of transferring a foreign student from the sponsorship of one program to
that of another, the reluctance of the Board of World Missions to sponsor a student whom they did not know
more about, and the financial obligations already incurred by the Board, were the main reasons for the failure to secure
a Congolese student this year.

New Court Hears Auto Violations
Davidsonian Managing Editor Dean Richard C. Burts held “Traffic Court” for the first time yesterday during chapel period in Room
126 of Chambers. A new policy, which went into effect this week, will bring all traffic violators to 126 Chambers
at 10:20 a.m. every Friday.

Enforcement Of Rules
By SAM FORT
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Freshman Court, created by the Student Council last spring, will begin enforcing freshman regulations tomorrow. Bob Stone, current freshman
advisor, will be the judge. Other members of the court are D. G. Martin, Bob Moore, James Davis, Larry Leafer,
Danny Carroll, Howard Arbuckle, and Wiley Horn. Stone said that the purpose of the court is to help freshmen become
a part of Davidson by encouraging them to demonstrate a respectful attitude toward the upperclassmen, each other, and the Davidson
tradition. This attitude will be demonstrated by a willingness to observe the freshman regulations.

After months of study last year the council abolished the old Court of Control and organized the new court to
replace it. One of the provisions arising out of the council’s decision was that the freshman advisor serve as judge
of the court. Behind the change in name is a change in policy as regards to purposes and methods. The
court will work jointly with the Freshman Council, the Student Council, the fraternity presidents, and the administration. Judge Stone feels
that the court should try to do something for the freshmen, not to the freshmen. The past Court of Control
had the reputation

Freshman Regulations
1. Freshmen must speak respectfully to everyone they meet on campus.
2. Freshmen must wear the prescribed nameplates at all times on the campus and must place namecards on the doors
of their dormitory rooms.
3. Freshmen must wear the prescribed caps whenever out of doors on campus.
4. Freshmen must not walk on grass.
5. Freshmen must know all the college yells and songs by the first pep rally; must attend all pep rallies
and when on campus attend all freshmen and varsity home football games.
6. All regulations shall become effective on Sunday, Sept. 17.
7. Regulations shall be in effectUntil Thanksgiving unless the Freshmen win the Field Day, which shall be held on Nov.
3. of a ‘bouncer’ organization, with nearly all of its members being athletes," he said. The new court is more
diversified, having both athletes and non-athletes. Stone feels that for the Freshman Court to operate properly it will need the
cooperation of the upperclassmen. “The court doesn’t believe in undue severity and certainly not humiliation,” he said, “but student body
recognition of the importance of freshman behavior is effective. Unless the upperclassmen will cooperate, the court's program can be more
of a farce than a help. The court is always open for suggestions and criticisms from anyone in the student
body.” Stone particularly wants the freshmen to know the policy of the Freshman Court toward riots. He said that the
court will see that there are no riots this year because of the danger to body and property. The court
has the right to recommend to the Student Council that all cuts be taken away from rioters or to campus
a freshman for two weeks. Stone indicated that the court will not hesitate to exercise those powers.

Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories, stated that, including married students and three freshmen, 48 students were allowed to
rent rooms in town. Four students are sharing a suite in the basement of the guest house. Mrs. Moore announced
that during the summer all the rooms in Belk Dormitory were completely redecorated and painted. Mrs. Moore added that she
ordered 50 new long beds this summer owing to the fact that 66 students in the freshman class are over
six feet-two inches tall.

The question of academic eligibility, which Rhodes had not mentioned, was also brought out by Martin. Nsuba was not taking
senior level work at the high school he was attending. President Martin said that even allowing for some deficiency because
he was a foreign student, Nsuba still could not qualify academically for Davidson. “It would be very unfortunate if our
first student had academic difficulty,” Martin stated. The Congolese Committee did not meet this summer, although some effort was made
to secure Nsuba during the summer, Rhodes explained. The Congolese Committee is expected to continue its work this year, but
its activity will depend on the encouragement it gets from the Board of World Missions. President Martin stated that he
expected the Board of World Missions to continue its support.

“I anticipate about 15 minutes a week to let anybody who wants to speak his complaint,” said Burts. The school’s
“Security Force” of watchmen will ticket offenders. All convictions carry a one dollar fine. “It's not money we're after,” said
the Dean, “but if a man is consistently a violator, the dean's office wants to handle the matter in another
way.” Burts hopes the new system will make the channels of complaint easier for the student and cut out red
tape. All complaints will be made orally before the Dean of Students. Written complaints were formerly required. “The situation has
been bad,” Burts commented, “we're trying to make it easier to make a valid complaint. If it gets too crowded,
call in Mr. Currie and move to Chambers Auditorium!” Wyche Fowler will act as an observer from the Student Council.
Acting as an “objective link” between the students and the bench, Fowler may recommend changes in the regulations or penalties.
“Wyche is there to look out for the student’s interests,” Burts said. Tickets for violations will be made out in
triplicate form now. The original copy will go to the offender, with carbons going to the bursar’s office and to
Dean Burts.

Davidson Enrolls 975 For '61-'62

Last week 975 students converged on the Davidson campus ready to begin their registration for the 1961-1962 school year. Included
were 275 freshmen, fourteen foreign students, and students who came to the campus earlier for part of the week for
orientation.

Davidson Burglar Convicted In Court

Freddie Lee Johnson, a 27-year-old Negro, was convicted this summer in a Charlotte court of extensive stealing in Watts and
Belk dormitories last year. Charlotte police arrested Johnson in late May following an investigation based on a tip by Cop
Linker. He had suggested that detectives check area pawn shops for Johnson's name. The Negro was a former employee of
the college, but had been serving a prison term since 1950 for similar robberies on the campus. He had been
released in early spring. Harrison Wellford, judge of the Honor Court, worked closely with the police during the final weeks
of the spring semester. After they found Johnson's name on several pawn tickets, Wellford was able to identify items of
clothing and jewelry, including his own sport coat. Police recovered about $400 worth of stolen items from Johnson. This represented
a large part of the items stolen last year. However, authorities were unable to determine how much, if any, money
Johnson had taken. Johnson was sentenced to 12 months on the road and then a 24-month suspended sentence.

Mitchel-Ruff Trio Opens Artist Series October 14

A performance by the Mitchel-Ruff Trio, Friday, Oct. 14, will initiate the Davidson College Artist Series for 1961-62. Six diversified
performances will be offered by the Artist Series Committee, headed by Prof. Donald Plott, director of music.

NO NAME ATTRACTIONS

No “name” attractions have been contracted and the committee says it is trying this year to put emphasis on the
combination of fine quality music and special attractions. Included are a violinist, pianist, chorus, players company, and actor. Other members
of the committee are C. Shaw Smith, College Union director, secretary, professors Ghigo, Griffin, and Lammers, and seniors Joe Robinson
and Alden Miller.

WITTY AND WISE

The Mitchell-Ruff Trio, a jazz combination of piano, bass, French horns, and drums, has been applauded by Time and Newsweek
for a recent performance in Russia. The group is described by the Washington Daily News as “music makers of the
highest order.” Actor Reginald Gardiner appears in Chambers Auditorium Nov. 14 with a program entitled “Tales Witty and Wise.” Mr.
Gardiner has presented his dramatic stories five times on the Ed Sullivan television show. They feature pantomime, visual and vocal
imagery, and humor. A piano recital by Stewart Gordon follows Dec. 4. The Washington Post and Times Herald calls him
“the most sensational pianist on our musical stage this year” and “one of the outstanding pianists of the present time.”

RICHARD III

A choral group, the Netherlands Chamber Choir, will present “A Miracle of Sound” on Feb. 16. The fifth performance on
March 12 will feature fifteen actors and actresses of Players Inc. in “Richard III.” In its 13th consecutive season, Players
Inc. has played at the White House before Presidents Truman and Eisenhower. Concluding the series on April 9 will be
violinist Joseph Silverstein, praised by Boston newspapers as “an excellent violinist, a virtuoso of the highest order.”
