———

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Newby: ‘Our Country Must Not Give Up Ground’

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

There is a new face behind the desk in the arms room of the ROTC Department. It belongs to a
man who has a wealth of experience gleaned from two wars and service with the army in eight foreign countries.
It is the face of a man who has known the hell of combat, fighting the Germans in France, the
cold winters of Korea. And it is the face of one who has thought about current world affairs in the
light of his experiences and has reached some positive conclusions.

The new custodian of the armory is Sgt. Clifton B. Newby, and he’s glad to be home.

HAS SERVED 21 YEARS

“I’ve been in the army for 21 years now,” he told THE DAVIDSONIAN. “Fourteen of those years I have served
overseas. My only son was born two days before I made my first trip abroad, to fight the Germans nineteen
years ago. I did not see him again until he was four. I plan for this tour of duty to
be my last. I want to retire after my three years here.”

However, Sgt. Newby is not actually going to retire. “I have been studying a little, recently, and hope to enter
business college in Charlotte. After that, I want to get located in the business field.”

LAUDS KENNEDY

The Sergeant is keenly interested in the world about him. “I think President Kennedy has done a wonderful job,” was
his first comment when I asked his opinion on our present world problems.

LOUIS CONNER, who can remember the hardships of a soldier’s life in the rugged Philippine climate, is now one of
Davidson's friendliest personages. He looks forward to the time when he can continue his education.

Army Veteran, Louis Conner, Shares Experience

BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The Davidson student does not take long to become friendly with members of the college maintenance crew. One of the
most personable figures among these men is Louis Conner, whose present domain is the College Union.

Louis was born in Mecklenburg County near Cornelius and went from high school into the service in 1943, where he
remained for the next thirty months. He took his basic training in Greensboro (where he met Sgt. Pendleton, then a
rifle range officer and now with our ROTC department) and Montgomery, Alabama. He became a member of an airplane maintenance
crew at Stuttgart, Arkansas and later was at Fort Benning, Georgia, for overseas basic training.

At Fort Benning, Louis learned the delicate art of packing parachutes and airborne supplies. Of his overseas trip, Louis says,
“From Fort Benning we went to Fort Wayne, Indiana and from there to California for briefings and a going-away party.
The summer months were terribly hot and the men could only read, play cards, write letters and talk about going
home.”

During his voyage to the Philippines, word came that the A-bomb had been dropped, and rumor had it that men
with two years or more of service would be going home. Says Louis, “It was only rumor.”

When he finally arrived home again, he spent a semester at Greensboro A & T College in 1946, before illness
put him in Columbia Veterans Hospital in South Carolina. In 1947 he was married, and worked at construction and public
roads work until 1955, when he came to Davidson.

Louis is hoping that in a short time he will be able to continue his education. “I would like to
learn some trade that would be beneficial to me and would permit me to continue my work around Davidson,” he
says. “First, I’m sending my wife (Colleen, who was Union Snack Bar manager last year) to school. That’s why I’m
pulling for Kennedy to stop the Red advance. If they succeed, it will affect us all.”

General Telephone

Your starting point is on the job. Because we consider on-the-job training the best method available for the development of
professional skills and talent. Equal consideration is given to your interests and in accordance with the direction in which you
wish to point your future, unusual opportunities are open to you in Technical Activities, Accounting and Data Processing, and Customer
Relations. Whichever direction you may take, GENERAL TELEPHONE has many employment opportunities for college-trained people. Contact your Placement Office for
full information.He elaborated further: “Kennedy has showed his willingness to fight to hold Berlin. And strength is the only thing
other countries respect. I have learned this from my fourteen years overseas.”

LIKES FIRM POLICY

“In fact, the only way to stop another war is for our country not to give another inch of territory
to the Reds. I've been in two wars and hope that I won't have to be in another one. And
the same goes for my son. If they keep eating up our territory, we will be put in such a
hole that war will be our only recourse. But if we show them we mean business now, they will back
down as they have always done when we show them we will not give ground.”

Sgt. Newby did not have the same complimentary words to say of former President Eisenhower. “I think Ike was a
great general, but a poor President. You can't make decisions for the country the same way you do for the
army. And that's what he tried to do. He surrounded himself with a staff, and all decisions reached were staff
decisions, just like in the army.”

If any cadet wants to pass away the time of day after cleaning his weapon, he may like to discuss
the world situation with Sgt. Newby. For the man behind that new face in the armory has observed and thought
and is not afraid to express his observations and opinions. And nothing gives him more enjoyment.

A NEW FACE in the ROTC department belongs to Sgt. Newby, a 20-year veteran of army service and amateur political
philosopher. (Staff Photo by McCutchan.)

Student Council Protests (Continued From Page One)

Except with the expressed permission of the council, centered about the prohibition of pistols, faculty regulations currently forbid the possession
of a pistol by any student, even if it is kept in the gun room. The council excluded specific reference
to pistols from the amendment, but intends to make it clear to the student body that the faculty ruling still
applies.

TWO-THIRDS MAJORITY

If the amendment is passed by the necessary two-thirds majority, the council will grant permission for possession of firearms in
the gun room in Belk and in the trunks of automobiles. The gun room facilities have recently been enlarged. The
council also gave a unanimous formal endorsement to the Constitution and Bylaws of the National Student Association. The move makes
the Davidson Student Council officially a member of the organization.

Union Christmas Party (Continued From Page One)

...tions for the festivity, said that he is planning some of the most unusual decorations ever seen at a Christmas
party. “I can promise that everyone will be surprised and, I hope, delighted,” he commented. And of course, the party
would not be complete without a visit from Santa Claus. He will certainly drop in sometime during the evening to
wish one and all a “Merry Christmas” and distribute perhaps a few goodies.

CHRISTMAS GIFTS

BUY THEM NOW

SAVE THAT VACATION TIME FOR FUN AND FROLIC

WE HAVE A FINE SELECTION FOR THE MEN IN YOUR FAMILY

A FEW SUGGESTIONS:
- SILK REPP TIES
- ST. JOHN'S BAY RUM AFTER SHAVE LOTION
- ITALIAN LEATHER BELTS
- WOOL SPORT SHIRTS
- CARDIGAN SWEATERS
- LEATHER GLOVES
- AND MANY OTHERS

FOR THE WOMEN:
- VILLAGER AND GANT BLOUSES
- SKIRTS AND SLACKS
- SWEATERS

ALL AT J. Y. WILSON, LTD.

Marlboro

Campus favorite in all 50 states!

It’s a top seller at colleges from U.S.C. to Yale... and 1st in the Flip-Top box in every single state.
If you think you're seeing more Marlboro men lately, you're right. More than 25,000 smokers all over the country are
switching to Marlboro every month! You'll know why when you try them. Marlboro is the filter cigarette with the unfiltered
taste. The secret of the flavor is the famous Marlboro recipe from Richmond, Virginia... and the pure white Selectrate filter
that goes with it. Try Marlboro and judge for yourself. On or off campus, you get a lot to like.

Flip-Top box or King-size pack.
