PAGE FOUR

Ten Fraternities Elect Officers For 1961-62

Ten of the twelve social fraternities have elected officers for the coming year or fall semester, depending on the terms
of office prescribed by the various fraternity constitutions. Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Sigma Chi have not yet chosen leaders. Each
plans to do so within the next two weeks. The officers are as follows:

ALPHA TAU OMEGA
President: Jim Jamison
Vice President: Don Saunders
Secretary: R. D. Jackson
Treasurer: Louis Burton
Rush Chairman: Steve Butler

BETA THETA PI
President: Joe Martin
Vice President: Walker Clarke
Recording Secretary: Carleton Cole
Treasurer: Tom Brown
Rush Chairman: Gist Farr

KAPPA ALPHA
President: Skeeter Watson
Vice President: Stefan Young
Secretary: Harry West
Treasurer: Herk Sims
Rush Chairman:

KAPPA SIGMA
President: Bob Stone
Vice President: Linton Wray
Secretary:
Treasurer: Lawrence Kimbrough
Rush Chairman: Duncan Morton

FIRST INSPECTION

“O.K.” was given the new Cunningham Fine Arts building last week by acoustical inspectors from Cambridge. The building, shown above
in a view of the northwest corner, is progressing on schedule. There will be one more acoustical inspection after the
building is finished. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells)

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bryan, Hampton, Richey, Calhoun, McGill, Sailstad, Fulcher, Mebane, Thompson, Gallent, Polley, Tyson, Goodykoontz, Reid, White.

Wheaton Replaces Adams In Command Of ROTC Unit

Lt. Col. Paul R. Wheaton, an infantry officer, will replace Lt. Col. William L. Adams as head of the Davidson
ROTC Department next year. Wheaton, a graduate of West Point, comes to Davidson from the Tenth Special Forces Group in
Germany. A graduate of the Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., Wheaton is also a paratrooper. He
will move to Davidson in early August with his wife and four children.

PHI DELTA THETA
President: John Harris
Vice President: Duke Davis
Secretary:

Adams will leave in early June for Orleans, France (just outside Paris). He will serve there as the intelligence officer
for a logistical command. His family will accompany him.

Scripts ‘N Pranks To Answer Critics

The spring issue of Scripts ‘N Pranks, coming out next week, will feature a special section submitted by Sigma Upsilon
honorary literary fraternity and a collection of poetry by David-

Chorus Completes Tour Of Seaboard

The Davidson College Male Chorus, which has just completed a tour along the Atlantic Seaboard, plans a busy schedule for
the rest of the spring. Professor Donald B. Plott, director of the chorus, said the spring tour, which included eight
concerts in various Atlantic Coast states, was well received by alumni of the college. “I do not believe I ever
saw so many ex-Davidson students on a tour before,” he commented. “I would call it very enjoyable and successful in
every way.”

Last night, the Male Chorus and Secretary of State Dean Rusk were guests-of-honor at a meeting of the Atlanta Bar
Association in Atlanta, Ga. Rusk gave the main address, and the chorus sang three selections. Next Monday night, the chorus
will give a concert at Charlotte College beginning at 7:15 p.m. On Friday, April 28, the annual Spring Concert will
be held.

FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1961

Two Centuries Separate Tavern

Torrence’s Tavern — doubtless a place where much dark ale was drunk, many rollicking songs were sung, and much good
fellowship was enjoyed in the time when our country was young. Today, less than two miles from this very spot
where our illustrious forebearers met to quaff the friendly ale and to enjoy the company of comrades stands a similar
establishment at which many members of the Davidson student body will meet for the pursuit of similar enjoyments during dance
weekend. The place is Hattie’s, where memories of such activities as Hog Anderson’s now-legendary drinking contest still linger. Recalling the
contest, Hattie marveled, “That boy drank a quart of beer in nine-tenths of a second. He took a quart of
beer—and you may think I'm lying—but he did it just like this,” she said, simulating the movement with a wave
of the hand. “He washed out an oil can, and put the beer in it,” added “Hattie, Jr.” (Whose real
name, by the way, is Betty.) When asked about the origin of her nickname, she explained, “Johnny Crute is the
one who started that, and everybody down there at the college calls me Hattie, Jr.”

Hummel Accepts Sweetbriar Post

Associate Professor of Business Administration and Economics Charles M. Hummel will leave Davidson next year to teach at Sweetbriar College
in Virginia. Dr. Hummel, who received his education at V. P. I., University of Pennsylvania, and University of Virginia, has
been teaching at Davidson since 1959. He will become an associate professor of economics and plans to try an entirely
new approach in teaching Elementary Economics.

BY FRANK STAFFORD

Hattie’s And Torrence’s

Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Torrence’s Tavern” proclaims the North Carolina Historical Society sign. Tarleton’s British cavalry routed a force of American militia, Feb. 2,
1781, at Torrence’s Tavern which stood nearby.

Hattie’s opinion of the “Davidson gentleman” is high. “I’ve been here 16 years in November,” she said, “and I never
have had any trouble out of the boys yet. If they get loud, I can call ‘em down, and they're
all real nice.” Speaking of graduating seniors, she said, “They sure have got a good bunch of boys. I’m gonna
hate to lose ‘em next year. They stay around here for four years and you kinda feel bad when they
leave.” She laughed about making the boys who stole the posts in front of the place several years ago come
back and re-plant them with their bare hands. “I laughed at ‘em,” she said, “but they didn’t stop coming back.
They laughed about it themselves after it was over with.”

Hattie, Jr. illustrated the air of informality at Hattie’s. “There was a boy up here the other night who came
in the door and said, ‘Hattie, get all these drunks outta here.’ He wasn’t drunk, and nobody else was either,”
she chuckled, “but she grabbed him by the arm and led him to the door.”

Students think a lot of Hattie and Hattie, Jr. “There were some boys sitting over there the other day talking,”
said Hattie, Jr., pointing toward the booths, “and one of them got up and said, ‘Betty, you know this boy
said he thought as much of you and Hattie as he did his own mother.’ It makes you feel good
to have somebody say something like that.”

Spring Frolics, 1961, will find Hattie’s helping Davidson students celebrate dance weekend for the 48th time. They'll drink the brew,
sing the rollicking songs, and enjoy the good fellowship.Fellowship once more. And maybe someday the N. C. Historical Society will
erect a sign proclaiming “Hattie’s.”

AED And YMCA Plan Symposium

“The Physician and Religion” will be the subject of the joint AED-YMCA symposium to be held on April 26. Dr.
Livingston Johnston, a physician from Shelby, and Chaplain Willard Baxter of the Gastonia County Hospital, Gastonia, have been invited to
serve as guest speakers at this meeting which will start at 8:15 in the Chemistry Lecture Room of the Chemistry
Building. These two speakers will discuss the relationship between religion and health, or more precisely, “show the connection between a
physician and his patients concerning medical counseling and religion. This is an area which includes not only physicians, but ministers
and counselors as well,” said Rick Aderhold, president of the AED, honorary pre-Med fraternity. “Since many illnesses have been found
to have psychosomatic origins, this program will be of interest not only to pre-Med majors, but also to psychology students
and majors.”

Secretary Tom Harris

Adams to France.

This issue will be given at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium and will feature selections presented on the tour. This
will conclude the year’s Fine Arts Festival. When asked if there was any particular reason for choosing Sweetbriar, Dr. Hummel
stated that its central Virginia location will make it equally convenient to visit his original home and the U- of
Va. in Charlottesville.

Dr. Hattie has acted as a force for moderation upon occasion. “I cut a boy off of beer one dance
weekend,” she said. “I just told him he drank too much for one dance. He didn’t give me any trouble;
he just quit.” Apparently, this was enough to make him “stay quit.” “If he’s ever drunk another one, I sure
don’t know it,” said Hattie. Martin said this week that “the prospects still seem reasonably good that we will have
two boys here next year.”

Major Robert W. Fleming, the Commandant of Cadets here at Davidson, will leave this summer to go to language school
at Monterey, Calif., from July to December. He will then be transferred to Panama to serve under the Caribbean Command.
No replacement for Fleming has yet been named. An announcement of the replacement for both Major Fleming and Lt. Col.
Hufford, who left Davidson ROTC Department last spring, are expected to be announced soon.

A special year's extension was granted Adams last year, although his regular tour of duty was to have ended at
that time. The extension was granted without application. Adams will have been at Davidson four years when he completes his
term as PMS. He came here in 1957 after serving as senior artillery advisor to the Royal Army in Thailand.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
President - Lou Zirkle
Recording Secretary - Harry Brown
Treasurer - Fred Lopp
Rush Chairman - Jerry Bussell

PI KAPPA ALPHA
President - Al Cowan
Vice President - Bob McFarland
Secretary - Buddy Cullum
Treasurer - Jack Hand
Rush Chairmen - Cam Davis and Sam Clarke

PI KAPPA PHI
President - Pete Jorgensen
Secretary - D. C. Gilley
Treasurer - Bruce King
Rush Chairman - Earl Roberson

SIGMA NU
President - Bob Phillips
Vice President - Nick Daves
Recorder - Price Caldwell
Treasurer - Con Childress
Rush Chairman - John Aehler

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
President - Warren Stephens
Vice President - Bernard Swope
Recording Secretary - Mel McKenzie
Comptroller - Joe Weld
Rush Chairmen - Jim Tanner and Jerry Hopkins

Massive voice for a missile base in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

The famous OPEN KITCHEN

FORGET, HELL!
11x14 inches
The original “FORGET, HELL!” Rebel Print in Full Color with handy envelope ready to mail to your Damnyankee friends. The
perfect gift for every Rebel-Blooded Southerner. Get your copy at the STUD today! Only $1 each.

In America's space-age defense system, the order of the day is total, high-speed communications. And at Vandenberg Air Force Base,
as elsewhere, General Telephone & Electronics is carrying out the order with efficiency and dispatch. Here the link to the
system that mans the mighty Atlas missiles is a fully automatic 5,000-line dial telephone exchange. The “outside voice” that links
the base with alert and command posts throughout the world is a multichannel microwave radio relay system capable of handling
hundreds of telephone conversations, teletype messages, and early-warning radar data simultaneously. The communications equipment connecting Vandenberg Air Force Base with
the outside was designed, manufactured, and installed by our subsidiaries, Automatic Electric and Lenkurt Electric, and is operated for the
government by General Telephone of California. This advanced high-speed system is expressive of the way General Telephone & Electronics strives
to serve the nation through better communications — not only for national defense, but for homes, business, and industry as
well.

GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
