A MATTER OF ‘FRESH’ FRESHMEN (See Page Three) VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1961 The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College SOCCER TEAM DEBUTS TOMORROW (See Page Two) NUMBER FOUR Freshmen Elect 22 To Council Bob Stone, Freshman Advisor, today announced the names of the twenty-two freshmen who have been elected by their respective halls to the 1961-62 Freshman Council. A president, vice-president, and secretary-treasurer will be elected by the council members later in the year, with the president and secretary-treasurer leading the group in its coordination and liaison activities, and with the vice-president heading various committees aiding in the work of the council. The Freshman Council is expected to have four primary functions this year. First, under the leadership of Freshman Advisor Bob Stone and the Freshman Court, the Council will lead in the organization of discussion teams among the members of their class, which in turn will evaluate such Davidson traditions as the Honor System, the Student Government, the Fraternity System, the drinking rules, the required religious exercises, as well as any other traditions such as ROTC which may come under fire. Secondly, the Council will serve in the capacity of mediator between their class and the Student Council, with the President of the Freshman Council participating in the Student Council as a non-voting member for a semester, and then becoming a full member with voting and all other privileges and duties at the beginning of the second semester. The third duty of the Council will consist of the planning of Freshman Parents Day on November 4. Committees will be appointed to handle registration, campus tours, and lodging accommodations. The day is designed to acquaint parents with the college and with the various activities of the students. The fourth principal duty of the Council will be to work with Fred McGuirt, Sophomore Class President, to organize the traditional Freshman-Sophomore Field Day, which will be held on November 3. Freshmen elected to Council were the following: Cannon Basement: Steve Davidson; First: Pete Coggeshall and Tee Thompson; Second: Dan Campbell and Bernie Ephland; Third: Jerry Martin and Ronnie Reese; and Fourth: Jan Brakel and Bill Ross. From East Basement: Hugh Allen; First: Dick Bates and Steve Heckard; Second: Tom Boone and Rick Smith; Third: Mackey McClelland and Bill Wood; and Fourth: Dave Pfohl and Randy Ranson. From Watts Third: Bruce Dalton and Sam Grimes; and Fourth: Ken Essex and Max Williams. MARLENE SCHMIDT, Miss Universe 1961, will make a personal appearance at the North Carolina Trade Fair in Charlotte Oct. 14-15. Five Davidson students, three Richardson Scholars and two students who have been to Germany, will dine with Miss Universe. Davidsonians Dine With World Beauty Five Davidson students have been invited to join Miss Universe 1961, Marlene Schmidt, at a breakfast in her honor at 8 a.m. Sunday morning, Oct. 15 in Charlotte. Miss Schmidt is appearing in Charlotte Oct. 14 and 15 in conjunction with the North Carolina Trade Fair. Jurgen Hey and Peter Gerstenberg from Germany, Gerhard Hartman from Austria, Lee Kirby and D. G. Martin will dine with Miss Schmidt. Also invited is Dagmar Tauber, a German girl who is living with the Martin family. She is studying at North Mecklenburg High School under the American Field Exchange Program. Miss Schmidt, who entered the international beauty contest because she “thought it would be fun,” is a 24-year-old precision engineer. She moved with her mother and younger sister from behind the Iron Curtain to West Germany just a year ago. Math Department Offers Coffee, Talk A “coffee and talk” is being scheduled for all students and faculty interested in mathematics at the Faculty Club on Jackson Court from 3:30 to 4:30 on the second Wednesday afternoon of each month. The first meeting of this school year will be October 11 with Professor Richard Bernard discussing the Peano curve of Lebesgue. Prior to the talks, which will begin at 4:30, there will be an hour-long informal gathering during which refreshments will be served and game boards and cards will be available. The talks will for the most part be informal in nature and designed to be of interest and intelligible to all who have a genuine interest in mathematics. College Snares Live Cat: From Pet Shop To Swamp Davidson’s wildcat will arrive by train tomorrow, Head Cheerleader Joe Martin has announced. It will be the second live mascot in college history. Roy Singleton, a Tampa, Florida animal dealer, has shipped the college a young cat caught in the swamps about five months ago. This is generally referred to as a bobcat. Martin obtained the animal with the aid of Ross Allen, well-known Silver Springs snake trainer. Notification that the mascot had been found came early Thursday. The mascot is two to five years old and big for its type, about 20 inches at the shoulders. Although it has been caged for five months, it is still completely wild. For the past week, Martin has been on the phone to places all over the country, in search of a suitable animal. He had a wildcat Tuesday—then found to his disappointment Wednesday that it wasn’t a wildcat after all. The idea of a living mascot, rather than a stuffed one, got its most recent inspiration from the Furman Paladin in Greenville two weeks ago. The search led Wednesday to Allen and the Tarpon Springs Zoo in Florida, whose animal agents combed the Everglades for a suitable wildcat. These wildlife entrepreneurs said the college would have to take whatever they trapped if it wanted anything immediately. Martin hoped a cat might be trapped by representatives by this weekend, but the prospects were doubtful. Then came the call to Mr. Allen or Singleton in Tampa and the cat was on its way. President D. Grier Martin is enthusiastic about the project, even though it will necessitate an additional insurance policy for the college. A policy insuring the college against claims resulting from the curiosity of visitors and small children will have to be obtained. The college’s last experience with a wildcat was anything but wild. President Martin recalls that the live mascot customarily slept through the games. Widespread interest began to get a “wild” wildcat before Homecoming. Martin recruited quick moral and financial support, then contacted the Charlottetown Pet Center. The owner came through in fine style, or so it seemed. “We made arrangements for an ocelot, settled on the price and it was to be delivered this week,” Martin said. “The owner assured us this was the wildcat we were looking for.” After much ribbing, however, Martin decided to be sure, and he’s glad he did. Dr. E. E. Brown cleared up the matter. An ocelot doesn’t even look like a wildcat; it looks like a baby leopard. Martin cancelled the order—over protests—and renewed the search for a genuine, ferocious wildcat of the type which inhabited this area years ago. To house the cat, a traveling cage and home cage are under construction. The traveling case will be carried by trailer, and both will be decorated in a circus style. The permanent cage, according to President Martin, should be placed near the Union in a well-lighted area to prevent attempted thefts by other schools. Responsibility for the cat’s care will fall to the cheerleaders. However, Dr. Martin suggested that next year there might be a scholarship student put in charge of the animal. The “Wildcat Scholarship” would go to the applicant showing the greatest feline-feeding ability. Voluntary contributions will provide the money for the cat, with a drive to be administered by the cheerleaders. The ocelot would have cost $125; the wildcat will cost $35 and does not require as much insurance. Foreign Students Want More Than School Life BY LEE KIRBY Davidsonian Associate Editor In a discussion with THE DAVIDSONIAN this week, seven Richardson Scholars expressed the hope that Davidson will find a more satisfactory solution to integrating the academic work of foreign students. These students from six nations aired their views for the second of a series of DAVIDSONIAN investigations of the “internationalization” of the college. “It’s good that we have to work like any normal American student, but we don’t like having to compete for marks on the same basis as native students,” commented one, expressing the group’s opinion. “As a Rotary scholar, I must give thirty speeches this term. Of course, all my cuts will be excused, but I must still make up the work I miss.” ACADEMIC STANDARDS “And it is much harder for us to make up the work in a language foreign to us.” Another pointed out that professors might make allowances for foreign students. “But we do not know it for certain, and besides we don’t want to be set apart so obviously. It is not good for your academic standards and it is not good for us.” Some students were interested primarily in the purely academic side of their education in America, but most dissented. MEET PEOPLE “We want to meetthe people of all America and their customs. Only a few of us will anyway. Although none of us will be satisfied with bad grades, our year in America should not consist of only our dorms, the library, and Chambers.

“Besides, we are here not so much to learn as to teach. And what we have to teach is great; some of the students here know almost nothing about Europe and the rest of the world.”

REAL INSIGHT

“But, at the present, we get the impression that the Richardson money is being spent for our benefit alone and not for the college.” All emphasized, however, that they are seeking a real insight into the American educational system and are not trying to shirk their jobs as students. They also agreed that they did not want to be set apart or treated as “outsiders.” Most agreed that they would like to have their work evaluated in some way other than grades and several methods were suggested. “There are so few of us, that our professors could check up on our work.” Ratings of “satisfactory” or “unsatisfactory” and oral examinations were suggested, among other methods. Asked about the Davidson student, the seven hoped “that no one will be shy to speak to us, to criticize our opinions, if he knows his reasons. Nothing ventured, nothing gained.”

Other criticisms? Only chapel and vespers—they seem to “fit in” already.

Compton Secured As Third Reynolds Lecturer, May 7-8

Peyre Initiates Series; Tillich Follows In Nov.

Arthur H. Compton, a prominent physicist and Nobel Prize winner in 1927, has been added to the series of 1961-1962 Reynolds Lecturers. Henri Peyre and Paul Tillich were announced as lecturers last spring, and Dean Frontis W. Johnston stated that at least one more lecturer will be secured for the second semester. The series will present no more than four lecturers unless there is an unusual opportunity to secure another one. Historian Arnold Toynbee was secured last year by virtue of his being in the South at an opportune time.

Henri Peyre, Sterling Professor of French at Yale and director of graduate study in French, will initiate the series, appearing Oct. 24-25. He is also chairman of the department of Romance languages at Yale, and was president of the Modern Language Association of America in 1960. Peyre, born in Paris in 1901, is a noted authority on European literature, and has written numerous books and articles on both contemporary and historical French writing, and has also done work in comparative literature. Peyre’s topics will be “A French Professor's View of American Education,” which will be given at assembly on Oct. 24, and “Can Literature Be Sincere?”, which he will give at an evening lecture on the same day. Peyre's visit will be concurrent with Dedication Week for the fine arts building. At first, there was a conflict between his evening lecture and a Vagabond play scheduled for the same evening, but that conflict was removed by switching the performance of the play.

Tillich, a noted theologian and philosopher, will be on campus Nov. 16-18. He was born in Prussia, and is now a professor at Harvard. He was a professor of philosophy and theology at the University of Frankfurt before Hitler came to power. In 1933, at the (Continued On Page Four)

YMCA Will Study Dynamics Of Faith

Dr. Paul Tillich’s book, Dynamics of Faith, will be used in the YMCA study groups which have been organized in conjunction with Tillich’s visit as a Reynolds Lecturer next month. The book will be divided into five parts to correspond with the number of meetings of the groups, announced Val Frakes, assistant to the chaplain. There will be two study groups, one led by Frakes and the other led by Dr. George Staples. Staples’s group will meet for the first time on Thursday, Oct. 19, at 9:30 p.m. in the Union Blue Room and will meet every Thursday at the same time for four succeeding weeks. Frakes’s group will meet on Monday, Oct. 16, at 4:30 and will meet at the same hour on Monday in the Blue Room for four succeeding weeks. Frakes stated that a third group would be organized if enough students indicated an interest.

The Honor System and what the faculty could do to clarify and support it, was the primary topic at Tuesday’s faculty meeting. The discussion arose as the result of a report by the Judicial Committee of the faculty on some problems which were presented late last spring in a report by outgoing Honor Court Chairman Scott Lacy and incoming Chairman Harrison Wellford. This report indicated that there were several customs practiced by some of the faculty which contain inherent dangers or strains to the Honor System, namely, those of giving the same review to two or more sections of the same class, and giving the same review to a make-up section that had been given originally. The Judicial Committee recommended that the faculty give fresh reviews to each section and to each make-up section, and thus reduce the strain on the Honor System.

In noting that the Judicial Committee will work closely with the Honor Court this year, Dean Frontis Johnston said, “We are interested in the spirit as well as the letter of the law and in getting across to the students the intent and meaning of the Honor System and of pledged work.”

In other action, President D. G. Martin presented to the faculty Taylor Blackwell, the new director of publicity at Davidson. The faculty also discussed plans for the dedication of the new Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Martin announced that he has received assurance from the Duke Power Company that the college will be able to lease a desirable area on the new lake to meet the recreational needs of faculty and students.

Freshmen To Play Key Pep Rally Role

At 9:30 Thursday night, October 12, a giant Homecoming Rally is scheduled. Plans include a freshman queue through the upperclass dorms, a parade downtown, and a bonfire on the vacant lot across from the Beta Theta Pi house. The freshmen, under the direction of Tom Cobb and Purk Purkerson, will meet in front of Chambers Building at 9:15 p.m., then will march behind the Pep Band in a modified conga line through the dormitories to make sure everyone attends the rally. Tentative plans call for Pres. Martin and Dean Burts to join the procession to the bonfire area, where they and the game captains of the football team will speak. At the game, the cheerleaders plan a revival of the traditional wildcat mascot, accompanied by an honor guard from the Peon Army.

Vagabond Tryouts Held Last Monday

Tryouts for the Vagabonds’ first production of the year, which will be a part of the program dedicating the Cunningham Fine Arts Building, were held Monday. John Sneden, head of the drama department and director of the play, was “very pleased” with the fine talent that tried out. However, he was rather disappointed with the small number. The dramatic group will stage scenes from Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night's Dream” for the dedicatory production. The scenes will be about the length of a one-act play. Although Prof. Sneden has chosen the persons to be in the play, he has not decided on individual parts as yet. Sneden stated also that “because of the difficulty in scheduling events, the first full production will be held Nov. 8-10.” This production had originally been “The Hasty Heart,” but has been changed to “Antigone” by Jean Anouilh. “Antigone” is a modern adaptation of the Greek classic. Sneden went on to say that this production “should be quite exciting with as realistic a setting as ‘The Hasty Heart’.” Tryouts for “Antigone” will be held in the rehearsal hall of the fine arts building next Tuesday, Oct. 10, at 4:30, and then again at 7:30. Sneden is very hopeful that more students will try out for this production.

Union Announces Popular Film List

“Cimarron” tops the list of popular films scheduled by the Student Union - YMCA Film Committee for weekend presentation this semester. Others include “Raintree County,” “Houseboat,” and “Some Came Running.” Most movies are available for 16mm projection one or two years after initial Hollywood release. Dave Simpson, film committee chairman, hopes to secure two 35mm projectors so any film can be shown at Davidson only six months after its release. Preparation is being made for an Experimental Film Festival this year featuring ten controversial films. The Fine Film Festival, which was so successful last year, will be repeated. The best artistic films available will be presented at these festivals. Top attractions scheduled for next semester include “Psycho,” “Butterfield,” “Come September,” and “Romanoff and Juliet.”

SEMESTER SCHEDULE

October
6-7 Country Girl
20-21 Home From the Hills
27-28 Bridge at Toko-Ri

November
3-4 Cimarron
10-11 Raintree County

December
2-3 Houseboat
8-9 High Society
14-15 Never So Few

January 1962
5-6 Place In the Sun
12-13 Some Came Running