PAGE FOUR | THE DAVIDSONIAN

The following professors:

Debate Teams Place Third In Florida State Meet

The Davidson College teams, competing in the Florida State University debate meet, both tied for third place against 248 schools
from all over the Southeast. The topic for all teams was: “Resolved, That the United States Should Adopt a System
of Compulsory Health Education.” Greg Govan, a freshman at Davidson, won first place in extemporaneous speaking. He spoke on the
subject, “Should After Vespers Open Houses will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1961

Some Hollanders Find ‘Dutch’ A Derisive Term

By JOHAN STRATING

Editor's Note: This is the eleventh in a series of articles by exchange students about customs and characteristics of their
homelands, or on their impressions of Davidson.

Some Hollanders are ashamed of the name Dutch. Why should they? Because it is used, they say, in so many
derisive and derogatory phrases that give the nation a bad name. But is a nation’s worth not appraised by its
own actions, not by a foreigner’s abuse? Besides, most of these idioms have ceased to be current. Dutch concert, Dutch
defense, Dutch widow (and do not forget a Dutch date) have passed from speakers’ lips to the page of the
dictionary. We do not like to be called Dutchmen, these Hollanders tell their American friends, because your English ancestors poked
fun at Dutchmen and anything Dutch. The whole country, and the outside world as well, adopted it at a period
when, if it had not been for Holland, the Dutch Republic could not have survived. That the Netherlands existed at
all as an independent nation is chiefly owing to Holland’s leadership in the crucial days of the Dutch fight for
freedom. Dutchmen and foreigners expressed their recognition of that name by which Americans can call us, and Dutch is the
one that is easiest to use. The Dutch themselves call their country Holland. The Netherlands is used only when they
write. There are Dutchmen, indeed, who resent the use of Holland as the name of the entire kingdom. Originally, Holland
was the name of only one province, and the inhabitants of the other provinces protest against the truth by identifying
the entire country with the province of Holland.

“Dutch” is an ambiguous term. In America it also means German. That is, I admit, a more valid objection. But
annoyance at the misuse of a good thing does not justify the cessation of its use. Holland never forced its
name on the entire kingdom. In other words, to call the Netherlands by the name of Holland is just the
same as to call the United States by the name of Texas.

DAVIDSON’S recently organized radio club has contacted 34 countries, including Australia and the Cook Islands, in an international competition among
amateur radio operators.

Radio Club Participates In Relay League Contest

By LEONARD RICHARDSON
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Three weeks ago students who room on the first floor of Belk turned on their radios and heard “ham” call-letters
instead of music. More of the same is in store next weekend. A week from tonight at 7 p.m. licensed
Radio Club members will begin the second and final part of the International American Radio Relay League DX Contest. These
radio amateurs are competing against other licensed amateurs in the 50 states and Canada in an attempt to contact stations
in as many foreign countries as possible.

36 HOUR VIGIL

The first uninterrupted 36-hour vigil in the southwest corner of Belk basement was held three weeks ago. The second part
of the contest takes place next weekend, from 7 p.m. March 3 through 7 p.m. March 5. Final results of
the contest will be published in the August issue of “QST” — the official publication of the American Radio League
which is sponsoring the contest.

“We made 127 contacts on four bands — 34 countries in 36 hours — during the first part of the
contest,” said Peery Grant, president of the club.

Rhodes Scholar To View Education

Hugh Cannon, Davidson’s tenth Rhodes Scholar, will speak in assembly Feb. 28, comparing Davidson's approach to education with those of
Oxford and Harvard. Cannon, who visited the campus last year while campaigning for Governor Terry Sanford, now holds the post
of assistant to the governor. A coffee hour after the program will give members of the student body a chance
to talk with him.

Entering Davidson in 1949, Cannon began preparing for a law career. (He listed politics as one of his hobbies.) Here
he was elected president of the YMCA, and earned membership in Phi Beta Kappa, and Omicron Delta Kappa. He spent
the summer of 1952 doing YMCA work in France, and received recognition from the US ambassador to France. Graduating in
1953, Cannon entered Christ Church College of Oxford. There he was active in the Oxford Union Society, a debating group,
and was on the rowing team. Taking his B.A. from Oxford in 1955, he entered Harvard Law School. After graduating
from Harvard, he entered Sanford’s law firm in Fayetteville, North Carolina. He received his first government job as a member
of the five-man Institute of Government, which publishes the legislation bulletin.

The log sheet which records the traffic during the 36-hour period three weeks ago lists countries on all parts of
the globe. “We worked some rare places," Hewitt Harrill remarked. “We contacted the Cook Islands in the Pacific, Swaziland in
Africa, and most of the countries in Europe, South America, and Pan America.”

FORMED LAST YEAR

The Radio Club was formed here last year by the ROTC Department after Col. William L. Adams heard that there
were amateurs on campus who wanted to be licensed as a radio station. This year the club is under the
supervision of Capt. Donald Threlkeld. The club is in the Military Air Radio System which covers North Carolina and the
Third Army net. In time of emergency, the club can handle military traffic. When Western North Carolina was covered with
snow last winter, the group handled communications between Army helicopters there and Fort Bragg stations. They also carry routine traffic.
“We've handled some calls from an Army sergeant stationed in the Canal Zone who wanted to talk to his wife
in Oakboro,” Grant said. They also arranged calls between a student here and his family in Miami.Last spring, Grant added
that the club will transmit messages for students to friends abroad “if they'll give us time to arrange it.”

CANAL ZONE CALLS
Grant said that anyone interested in the contest is invited to come down to the southwest corner of Belk basement
next weekend. “The total number of stations contacted next weekend will depend upon ionospheric conditions,” he said. Three transmitters will
be ready for use — one in operation, one warmed up in case of breakdown, and one on reserve. Two
receivers will be prepared. Only one transmitter and receiver can be used at a time, in compliance with the rules
of the contest. “Only one transmitter and receiver can be used at a time,” he continued. A licensed man operates
the transmitter while the various committee chairmen and members, we hope to fulfill these commitments, and really make the Union
meaningful to the entire student body.”

Union Head Appoints Committee Chairmen
Union President Jerry Shelton announced last week his committee chairman appointees for the coming year. In addition to the standard
four committees, roundtable, social, and display, Shelton also created a new committee on foreign students. The new chairmen are as
follows: Tom Wright, publicity; David Gilmour, roundtable; Chip Clark, social; Alden Miller, display; and Dennis Szeglin, committee on foreign students.
Shelton also met with the Union faculty committee yesterday to discuss groundwork for the coming semester's activities. Among the new
projects under consideration is a series of five foreign films to be shown in the Union. This includes the highly
controversial “Lady Chatterley’s Lover,” “Birth Of A Nation,” “Open City,” and two others to be chosen. Dates for the showings
will be announced later. In commenting upon these and other plans for the coming year, Shelton declared, “As far as
I can see, all that we have planned seems to have met with favorable opinions from all concerned.” He further
added, “We have committed ourselves to a lot, but with the interest shown by the various committee chairmen and members,
we hope to fulfill these commitments, and really make the Union meaningful to the entire student body.”

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead - Charlotte, N. C.

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord

Philosophy Group Attends Conference
Several philosophy students under the direction of Professor William W. Daniels of the Philosophy Department left Davidson for a conference
at Agnes Scott College, Atlanta, Georgia, today. Representatives from Agnes Scott College, the University of the South in Sewanee, Tennessee,
Emory University of Atlanta, and Davidson College participated in the annual conference which was held here last year. Delegates from
Davidson were Robert Sargent, Allen Gravely, Larry Smith, Tim Ray, Allen Wells, and Elliot McElroy. The theme of the Agnes
Scott conference is Marxism and each school presented a paper written on this subject. Allen Gravely’s paper, “Freedom and Human
Nature in Marxism,” represented Davidson. Two schools will present their papers at the Saturday morning session and the remaining schools
will offer their papers to the meeting that afternoon. During each session, the delegates are discussing the thoughts and ideas
given in the papers. Although the professors from the different schools are attending the conference, they are forbidden to speak.
The purpose of this conference is to bring together philosophy students from the four schools to discuss a philosophical problem
that has been chosen the previous year.

BETWEEN MEALS ... get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Coca-Cola and Coke are registered trademarks of the Coca-Cola Company.

Dr. Joseph T. Drake, coach of the Davidson teams, was well pleased with the results of the trip. “We have
improved greatly," said Dr. Drake, “and next year we can expect an excellent team." Representing Davidson on the senior team
were Tom Poston and Bob Llewellyn for the affirmative, and Greg Govan and Bill Brown for the negative. The senior
team was in competition with such schools as Howard University, Mississippi State University, and Georgia Tech. The junior team, composed
of Harold Fisher and Bill Stockard for the affirmative, and Doug

Drake said that the teams might enter an upcoming meet at Lenoir Rhyne, but that it is uncertain at this
time.

Col. Adams Called To Post In France
Lt. Col. William L. Adams, head of the Davidson ROTC department, will complete his tour of duty here July 15.
He is being transferred to France. “I'm not sure just what my new job will be," Adams stated, “but I
imagine I'll be in Paris. My family will be going with me.” Adams was granted a special year’s extension last
year, when his regular tour of duty at Davidson was to have ended. That extension had been granted without application,
when Adams had been expecting an assignment to South America as military attache in Caracas, Venezuela. Adams will have been
at Davidson four years when he completes his term as PMS&T. He came here in 1957 after serving as senior
artillery advisor to the Royal Thai Army in Thailand. No one has been selected yet to replace Adams. He indicated
that attempts were being made to learn the local changes in cadre for next year.

Special Announcement
FORMAL OPENING OF A NEW CAMPUS SHOP
2nd Floor MELLON'S
on Mellon’s Second Floor
CAMPUS STAG PARTY
FRIDAY NITE MARCH 3rd
Register For Prizes
Dedicated To The Style and Tastes of the Young Men of Today
MUSIC ... REFRESHMENTS

(Continued from Page One)
Another question concerned statements made by Arnold Toynbee who will speak to Davidson students on March 27 and 28. A
young man who referred to himself as “a British subject” questioned Uris as to the validity of his statements concerning
British refugee camps in his book Exodus, and quoted statements made by historian Toynbee. “I'm not going to argue with
Toynbee,” said Uris. “He's been on this kick for two decades.” On Thursday both Uris and Leshem spoke to various
Bible, psychology, and political science classes and dined at several fraternity houses. Leshem also showed films of Israel in the
College Union on Thursday afternoon.

Young Man With a Date
No matter what your educational background—the arts, the sciences, business or engineering—make a date to talk with a Bell interviewer
when he visits your campus. Wide range of job opportunities.
Representatives will be on the campus March 1 and 2
INTERVIEWS
March 1 from 9:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
March 2 from 9:00 A.M. to 1:00 P.M.
Group Discussion at 4:00 P.M., March 1, College Union Building, for any interested student regardless of class.
SEE YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICER FOR AN INTERVIEW
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company
Western Electric Company
