PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Editorial Nominees Give Platforms

SCRIPTS 'N PRANKS

DAVID JORDAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN has a two-fold purpose as “The News and Editorial Voice” of the campus. First, on its news pages, it should accurately and impartially report news of interest covering all areas of campus life. Secondly, on its editorial pages only, it should take definite stands, which may or may not reflect majority student opinion. The paper should be provocative. The editor should investigate, criticize constructively, and propose, with the goals of achieving actions he favors and stimulating readers to question their opinions and defend them adequately.

The paper must not be guilty of presenting only one side. I will always print any constructive letter or article in agreement or opposition with editorial policy. If elected, I promise to approach issues as open-mindedly and intelligently as I am able. Since each issue must be considered in its immediate context, I cannot say what all my stands will be. However, some of my definite proposals are:
1—a much improved faculty and curriculum are sorely needed.
2—the Honor Court's study of “diving,” pledged work, and stealing should be continued and positive action taken.
3—students should have a greater voice in all matters directly concerning them.
4—literary activities and other areas of the liberal arts program need emphasis and development like debating and dramatics this year.
5—greater coverage should be given to intramural sports.

In three years on this paper’s staff and three summers’ experience on daily papers, I have become aware of the problems and opportunities of THE DAVIDSONIAN. If elected, I promise a readable, alert paper each Friday.

SAUNDERS

If THE DAVIDSONIAN is to fulfill its proper position on campus, it must be an expression of all student opinion. Part of the editor's job is to win the respect of the student body for its campus newspaper. This can be accomplished, I believe, by the following:
1. Establishing a ‘forum’-type column on page two, where any student may have the opportunity to air gripes, present opinions, and write full-fledged articles on vital subjects.
2. Extending intramural coverage, promoting the IMAC, and continuing to present the most newsworthy and interesting college athletic news.
3. Catching pictures of the unusual and special events on campus — in short, to enliven and improve news picture-taking.

THE DAVIDSONIAN editor's most important job, however, is up to him, and is not left to the technical assistants, no matter how efficient. The editor must take a firm editorial stand on major campus issues, based on thorough investigation. The editorial column is not the place to air personal bias: this is unworthy of any newspaperman. But the good editor gives generous amounts of constructive criticism, merited praise, and informed opinion.

Volume XL of THE DAVIDSONIAN will put in print some 28 copies of news and editorials. New problems will have arisen. Old problems, such as faculty salaries, library expansions, and the drinking rule will, no doubt, continue to plague us. In these pages, I hope, the way to progress can be indicated. If elected editor, I will do my best to make THE DAVIDSONIAN a vital, forceful, and respected voice on a progressive campus.

QUIPS AND CRANKS

No one Davidson student has the ability to produce the Quips 'n Cranks. Such a task can be accomplished only by a well-chosen and carefully-guided staff comprised of men especially qualified for their respective jobs. Such a group is my platform for next year’s editorship.

The photographer is one of the key men on a staff since the yearbook is, to a large degree, a pictorial record of the Davidson term. His skill is vain, however, without the idea man, whose job it is to find or create for the photographer situations best representing various phases of campus activity. But pictures themselves speak only so loud. Therefore, a competent copy editor is needed to lend continuity to the yearbook sections.

A skilled photographer, a fresh idea man, a prolific copy editor brought together by careful selection and guided by valuable experience will produce the annual if I am elected. More specifically, I advocate four pages for each group in the fraternity section. In addition to the composite pictures which offer an invaluable aid to rushing, this section needs snapshots portraying activity characteristic of each fraternity. An appealing beauty section also needs to be included. More emphasis should be placed on the graduating class, for in a sense, it is their yearbook and the one to which they will turn twenty-five years hence. Finally, by careful juggling of funds, more colored pictures could be added to the pages of the annual, perhaps to complement the other colored aspects of our campus next year.

Artist’s ‘Enigma’ Hangs In Lobby Of Chambers

By JIMMY WILLIAMS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“I call this,” said Yarcy Robertson as he hung up a painting of a grotesquely shaped bird surrounded by a livid yellow-orange sky, “‘Bird of Prey.’ I've been told several times that it's positively repulsive, but it’s the technique and color of the painting that makes it beautiful.”

Robertson was busy Wednesday setting up his one-man show which is currently on display in Chambers lobby. “How long did it take you to paint it?”, THE DAVIDSONIAN asked. “Oh, about fifty cups of coffee,” came the reply.

Robertson, who is currently Professor of Art at Winthrop College, graduated from Davidson in 1953. He is the first graduate in a decade to return for a one-man show and was asked to come by Professor Moose in conjunction with the “Fine Arts Festival.” The theme of the festival is “The South’s Contribution to Contemporary Arts.”

“Which of these is your favorite?”
“The one over there called ‘Enigma’ and this ‘Sea Shape.’ Actually, I don’t like many of the ones here. After working for a long time on one painting, you soon get tired of it. That's what keeps an artist going. You’re never really satisfied. Those which are your favorites today will not be so tomorrow. Already I'm beginning to get tired of looking at ‘Enigma.’ I suspect it’s too dark.”

Since leaving Davidson, Robertson has studied English at Duke and spent four years at the Boston Museum School of Fine Arts. A winner in the Elliot Springs Exhibition, he has exhibited in competitive shows in Boston and has had one-man shows in his hometown of Fayetteville, North Carolina.

THE DAVIDSONIAN also asked him to comment on art in the South. “So far as talent is concerned, the Old South didn’t produce great artists simply because the Southerners were more interested in ‘living the good life.’ As for the role of the artist in general,” Robertson commented, “An artist must speak his own mind. He should tell the truth as he sees it. But I believe that in order to justify himself, he must also be able to communicate his ideas.”

Other works by Southern painters can be seen in the Morrison Room of the College Union in conjunction with the “Fine Arts Festival.”

PATRICK

The Quips and Cranks should be a publication that will vividly restore memories of past events. I believe that the following proposals will accomplish this end. First, simplicity is a prime factor. More use of descriptive photography and less emphasis on context gain my full support. I have noticed that the trend in university annuals has been toward full utilization of this method, for a picture captures the particular event much more effectively. Pictures limited to aspects not truly representative of college life should be replaced with pictures symbolically understandable to the whole student body, faculty, and alumni.Secondly, coherence is a major factor in publishing a top annual. I propose that there be a more effective method of transition used with emphasis on the neglected sections, such as faculty and honorary fraternities. Faculty contacts with the students are an integral part of college life and should receive more consideration. Honorary fraternities and organizations should have their purpose and activities more clearly portrayed. 

Thirdly, appeal can be obtained if the members of the Quips and Cranks staff have a closer connection with the college activities throughout the year, as does THE DAVIDSONIAN. Because of scope, the Quips and Cranks’ final product cannot be detailed. However, I propose that the annual staff gather material on the overall aspects of numerous activities throughout the year to enable it to make the best selections of material for the layout. My past experience on the Quips and Cranks staff, and experience as business manager and editor of an annual a few years ago give me confidence that I could accomplish these objectives. I would do my utmost to coordinate all phases of annual work to give Davidson College a superior annual publication.

Committee Forms (Continued From Page One)
committee: Mr. Vance Baucom, minister to Calvary Presbyterian Church; Mr. Russell Montfort, pastor of Davidson Methodist Church; and Dr. S. R. Newell, pastor of the college church.

ADMISSION FREE
Save Thursday night, March 23rd for Rush Wilson's - Tate-Brown’s PRESENTATION "FASHION FROLICS”

Log 13-DAVIDSON PLAYBOYS
Robertson’s paintings will be in Chambers lobby through April 15. Other works by South-

FRIENDS
THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI and 7-CUTE PLAYMATES

COLLEGE UNION AUDITORIUM DAVIDSON COLLEGE
2 SHOWS: 7:30 p.m. and 8:45 p.m.
FREE-Door Prizes
FREE-Refreshments

JACKSON
In my opinion, the Davidson humor magazine lacks one essential element — humor. What humor that may have been present has been gleaned from other collegiate publications or from past issues of Scripts ‘n Pranks when its staff had no difficulty being original. It seems to me that if Davidson possesses the calibre of students that it boasts, there should be enough creative ability present to publish four original issues of a truly humorous humor magazine. The Vagabonds have shown that student participation and enthusiasm can be rekindled among the pseudo-intelligentsia of our campus. Scripts ‘n Pranks can follow this example by encouraging those students who possess fresh, creative writing; more talented ability to contribute to the magazine. This in turn might stimulate the literary societies to revive their extinct publications and in so doing relieve Scripts ‘n Pranks of the burden of its dual role as both a humor and a literary magazine. This would leave more time and space to be devoted to the primary purpose of the magazine — humor. Like so many organizations at Davidson, Scripts ‘n Pranks has isolated itself from the interests and desires of the student body. Since student funds finance the publication, it seems (Continued In Column 8)

Gentlemen, let’s face it: Scripts ‘n Pranks is suffering from schizophrenia. To be scripts or to be pranks. Now let's examine the situation. Davidson obviously can't support literary effort and its borrowed, sick humor in separate publications. The twain must meet. The focal Byronic heroes cannot function according to time tables or the like—deadlines are a curse of the bourgeois. So, the local outlet must not serve only as an outlet but must manage to inspire someone. This might be done by hiring a few muses to sit in on meetings. Something should come of it, anyway. For original humor (sick or otherwise) we can send writers to the classes of the wits of the college. Someone has to attend their classes. Though I haven't followed any mad urges to take the local version of psychology, experience has given me a certain insight in this problem of schizophrenia. I certainly wouldn’t try to solve it, normal magazines like normal people are dull and dry. So, I propose to give the magazine some more psychoses (whether I win or no). Now I shan’t be out to shock. Oh no. I shall be out for quality. If we're all going crazy, let’s do it in style. (Continued in Column 8)

FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1961

After Vespers
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brown
Currie
Kelton
Daggy
Lilly
Fleming
Lloyd
Gable
Marrotte
Griffin
Scott
Stroud
Tucker
Watts

Richardson Scholars Act As Delegates To L.U.N.A.
By KOOKIE KAPOOR
Richardson Scholar

Five of Davidson’s Richardson Scholars were delegates to the Little United Nations Assembly — an exact replica of the U. N. — held at Indiana University from March 8-11. Wolfgang Mayerhofer, Kookie Kapoor, Arnold Kroner, Per Leander, and Richard Dawids posed as members of the Austrian and Luxembourg delegations. University students from all over the United States were given the responsibility of representing a country other than their own. This gave them an opportunity to come into close contact with the problems and difficulties which another country faces.

The L.U.N.A. is held to give participants a deeper and truer insight into the many and varied complexities of the inner mechanism of the United Nations. L.U.N.A. provides the most fundamental essential of the U.N. — acknowledgement of the fact that mankind is locked in a common destiny, and the action of every nation is going to be either an encouraging or retarding factor in mankind's striving for peace. The Richardson Scholars who attended the Assembly felt that it was characterized by vigorous and enthusiastic participation. Flattery, exchange of hollow courtesies, verbal gymnastics, political witticisms, and usual entourage of a political assembly were very much in evidence. The delegation from Cuba, led by “Mr. Castro” in disguise, was a faithful reproduction of the popular concept. Decked out in military dress, brandishing beards, the delegation made a dramatic entrance, then proceeded directly to the Russian bloc and gave an animated display of exchanging courtesies. The resolution for the admission of Red China, tabled by India, was defeated by an extremely narrow margin — 26 against, 25 in favor. An atmosphere of earnestness and urgency prevailed, and one could not help but realize the tremendous beating the U. N. suffers from certain dissident and irreconcilable elements.

Jackson (Continued From Column 5)
only just that the student should receive issues which suit his taste. I would like to have a survey taken to determine what the Davidson student would like in his humor magazine. Scripts ‘n Pranks must be a humor magazine for the students and by the students.

Pruitt (Continued From Column 6)
Thank you. No applause; just throw pennies.

Bright idea with a glowing future
At Gen Tel, research is put to work to advance communications through sight as well as sound. The dial of our compact Svancite* phone, for example, utilizes an entirely new source of light that marks a milestone in visual communications. Called Panecescent® (electroluminescent) lighting, it produces light without heat, has no bulb to turn on and off, and costs less than 1¢ a year for electricity. Pioneered and developed by the Lighting Products Division of our subsidiary, Sylvania, this dramatic new light opens up almost infinite product possibilities in sight communication. Already it is being used for clock faces, radio dials, auto instrument panels and road signs. And, through the development of an ingenious “cross grid” design, electroluminescent panels are now capable of reproducing alpha-numeric “readouts” for electronic computers. This achievement, in fact, may one day lead to “flat wall” TV. It is another example of the way General Telephone & Electronics coordinates the scientific and engineering leadership of many divisions in order to make communications progress on all fronts.