PAGE FOUR

THE STORAGE AREA, reminiscent of the Charlotte city dump, contains a diverse collection of lumber, pipe, and other second-hand building
materials. Its size has decreased in recent years, but it still stands as a memorial to such early buildings as
Rumple, Georgia, and West Dormitories.

Scenic Ghetto Of Grime: Dump Or Storage Area?
BY WILLIAM WALKER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Brick-bats, plumber’s pipe, cracked concrete conduits, and torn tar paper; piles of weathered two-by-fours, coils of rusted wire, battered hot
water tanks, and two monstrous, gutted gas tanks. These are among the scenic wonders to greet the casual busybody when
he wanders into the fenced-off area behind the college laundry. All of the unwanted and irreparable refuse of the past
35 years of building and demolition at Davidson College seems to preserve itself in the 200-foot strip of blackened earth
known as the college “storage area.”

ENCLOSED BY FENCE
Enclosing this ghetto of grime is a relatively new six-foot heavy-duty wire fence, lined irregularly with shrubs, holly bushes, and
small, feeble cedars. Morning glories grow profusely on and around the stacks of wood and brick, and incongruously, there are
withered roses on the fence.

In the college business office, questions about “the junk pile” behind the laundry drew blank expressions at first. Then Business
Manager Robert A. Currie rushed to the defense of the area. “It's sort of a supply dump,” Currie said. “In
fact, it’s not any dump, it’s a storage area. If a building is torn down, what we don’t destroy or
turn over to the contractors, we consign to the area behind the laundry.”

IMMUTABLE RELIC
Currie was not sure exactly when the storage area had been instituted. Fortunately, however, College Engineer Oscar J. Thies happened
to be present. Thies said, “I think the brick building of the heating plant was built around 1915 or 1920.
Since then, the area has been used for storage. The College has since put up a very fine fence and
has put up shrubs to shield it.” Thies said that before the building of the new fraternity court in 1957,
the entire area of college property behind the laundry had been used for this purpose. Then, with the advent of
the court, the fence with its struggling bushes had been put up, and the storage area confined within it.

And so, while buildings rise and fall, the college storage area remains, an immutable relic and record of their falling,
and a potential heyday for the archaeologists of post-fallout America.

Freshman Council Chooses President
The Freshman Council elected Randy Ranson president in its organizational meeting this week. Other officers who were elected include Dick
Bates, vice-president; Hugh Allen, secretary; and Jerry Martin, treasurer. Ranson will serve as a non-voting member of the Student Council
until the second semester, when he will have voting privileges. Freshman Advisor Bob Stone praised Ranson for his work on
Freshman Parent's Day. “He did an excellent job of presiding.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Gross
Lord
Purcell
Horton
McGeachy
Ratliff
Jackson
Minter
Rhodes
Johnston
Pierce
Schenck
Lammers
Plott
Threlkeld

Open Houses Council Meets, Discusses Mooresville-Davidson Drive-in, Additional Gun Cabinets
The Student Council met Wednesday, Nov. 8, and discussed increasing the number of gun cabinets in the basement of Belk
Dormitory. A construction order has been issued, and following the completion of the new cabinets, there will be a meeting
of all students owning firearms to inform them of the new Student Council regulations governing the possession of firearms on
campus.

Other business included the election of Joe Kelley and Duncan Morton as representatives of the student body at large and
of the Student Council, respectively, to the Faculty Athletic Council. The council also discussed information concerning study abroad. The council
concluded the meeting by appointing a chapel program committee to select and invite speakers as well as to plan chapel
programs. The council members appointed to this committee were D. G. Martin, Danny Carrell, and George Trask. Trask, student body
president, stated that this committee would not only select and invite chapel speakers, but would try “to establish some unified
campus-wide program to make the student body more aware of the chapel services.”

"Y" Seminars Study Luther, Peace, Life
The YMCA will sponsor three study groups in the fields of theology, ethics, and literature during the period between Thanksgiving
and Christmas holidays. The theology study group will read three essays by Luther, “Babylonian Captivity of the Church,” “Concerning Human
Freedom,” and the “Address to the Christian Nobility of the German Nation.” The ethics group will consider a series of
short booklets on the arms race and world peace. The pamphlets, published by the Center for the Study of Democratic
Institutions, include “Community of Fear,” “A World without War,” and “Permanent Peace.” The third seminar will discuss Eugene O'Neill's play
“The Iceman Cometh.” Each group will meet twice.

REGINALD GARDINER
Series Artist Tells Tales Witty And Wise
Reginald Gardiner will tell “Tales Witty and Wise” in Chambers Auditorium on Nov. 14 at 8:15 p.m. He will be
the second of six performers to participate in this year’s Artist Series. After being graduated from the Royal Academy of
Dramatic Arts in England, Gardiner played various roles, including Shakespeare, Shaw, and O'Neill, in that country. He made his American
debut with Beatrice Lillie in New York in “At Home Abroad.” Gardiner returned to England for a command performance before
the late King George VI. Back on Broadway, he played in “The Show’s On.” Eleanor Powell, who was also in
this show, took him to Hollywood with her for a part in her movie, “Born to Dance.” Since then, he
has appeared in several movies, the most recent being “Back Street.” On television, Gardiner has appeared on various programs, including
“Playhouse 90” and the Ed Sullivan Show. In spite of his success on television and in movies, Gardiner prefers the
stage. He has recently played in several Broadway hits, including “The Reluctant Debutante.”

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina

Noted that with the additional projector, the Film Committee will be able to secure more and better films than has
been possible with the 16 mm. projectors. The College Union Film Committee announced this week that it plans to rent
two 35 mm. projectors for a trial period of two months. The new projectors, to be used in addition to
the 16 mm. projectors already in use, will enable the Film Committee to secure any film in print within 30
days after its showing at the campus in the Carolinas. The first film to be shown with the new projectors
will be "Gone With The Wind," which will be shown Nov. 17-30 at 2 and 7:30 p.m. This will mark
the first time such a film has been shown on campus. The price of 50 cents will include the cost
of renting the projectors. The new projectors are being rented from C. G. Lawing, Charlotte projectionist, with the option of
buying them at the end of the two-month period. If they should be bought, the rental money will be applied
to the purchase price of $1,000.

Military Fraternity Plans Active Year
Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, held its formal initiation on Nov. 7. The tapping ceremonies were held during the
regular drill period on Oct. 10. Since that time, the new pledges have been learning the nature of the basic
principles and the activities of the fraternity. Clarke, plans an active program this year in an effort to make the
fraternity a more influential force on campus. The first event on the calendar for this year is the annual Thanksgiving
Turkey Shoot, to be held for the faculty on Nov. 23. Clark and several other members of the local company
will attend the National Society Convention Nov. 17 and 18 in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Fallout Shelters
(Continued From Page One)
People with the means of radiation detection and measurement, Hopkins has been conducting a course in the use of radiological
instruments. It has been attended by 24 people from Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville. The problem under consideration now in Davidson
is that of communication. “Some few qualified people should have the instruments for reliable information. This information could then be
transferred to available equipment for broadcast to the various shelter areas,” says Hopkins. Plans are moving ahead to adapt the
FM truck-radios of the Withers Electric Company to a predetermined citizens broadcast band common to all shelter receivers. Alarm equipment
is also being tested by the telephone company and Duke Power Company. College officials have just begun making plans for
fallout shelters on the campus. At present, only one area, the basement of Dana Science Laboratories, is safe against atmospheric
radiation and fallout. This area would probably have sufficient room for only a small percentage of the student body. A
college committee has been organized to remedy this deficiency, but no definite action has been taken on storage of food
supplies or additional shelter construction. “We are looking for some communications system to connect the various shelter areas on campus,”
states Grover Meetze, Director of the Physical Plant of the College. “We already have qualified physics students who know how
to designate radiation,” says Hopkins. “Others will lead students to shelter areas now in the planning stage.” Dr. Hopkins has
been taking air samples containing fallout from Russia’s recent series of nuclear tests, and he reports that the radiation counts
seem only slightly above normal, unlike Gastonia which, because of meteorological conditions, has the greatest increase in radiation in the
country.

Discussion Held On Bonhoeffer
The works and influence of Dietrich Bonhoeffer, German pastor-theologian, will be the subject of two discussions to be led by
Mr. Val Frakes and Dr. George Staples on Nov. 20 and 27 at 4 p.m. in the College Union. The
lecture-discussion programs, based on two devotional works, "The Cost of Discipleship" and "Life Together," differ from the Tillich discussion groups
in that the students are expected to know little of the subject matter. As the group will be kept small,
all those interested should register at the YMCA office by Nov. 15. Bonhoeffer, a victim of the Nazi purges at
the end of World War II, was a leader in the field of practical theology. The discipline of Christian life
and the ethics of the Christian man are points of major emphasis. Believing the Church to be growing weaker in
the 20th century, he advocates the increased use of confession in Protestant Christian life and the general application of theology
to everyday life.

Academic Calendar For 1962-63 Session
The following condensation of the academic schedule for 1962-63 was adopted at Wednesday’s faculty meeting:
- Thursday through Tuesday: Orientation Period.
- Monday and Tuesday: Re-examinations.
- Monday: First Faculty Meeting. Registration of Sophomores, 2:00 P.M.
- Tuesday: Registration of Juniors, 9:00 A.M. Registration of Seniors, 2:00 P.M.
- Wednesday: Classes Begin.
- Wednesday, 4:30 P.M.: Thanksgiving Recess Begins.
- Monday, 8:20 A.M.: Thanksgiving Recess Ends.
- Saturday, 12:10 P.M.: Christmas Recess Begins.
- Thursday, 8:20 A.M.: Christmas Recess Ends.
- Friday: Mid-year Examinations Begin.
- Saturday: Mid-year Examinations End.
- Sunday, Monday, Tuesday: Mid-term Recess.
- Wednesday, 8:20 A.M.: Second Semester Begins.
- Saturday, 12:10 P.M.: Spring Recess Begins.
- Saturday, 2:00 P.M.: Re-examinations.
- Monday, 8:20 A.M.: Spring Recess Ends.
- Wednesday: Second Semester Examinations Begin.
- Thursday: Second Semester Examinations End.
- June 1, 2: Saturday, Sunday: Commencement.
- June 7, 8: Friday, Saturday: Re-examinations.
