FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

Lefty And Attitude Sum It Up

The basketball season officially ended last Saturday night and speculation is in order. On paper, the 1960-61 season finds Davidson
in a not unfamiliar position — more defeats than victories, and last place in the Southern Conference. And yet, a
close analysis of the year indicates that there was something unique about this one — something that cannot be measured
in games won and lost. We tried to come up with an answer to this uniqueness, and decided on two
words that sum it up — Lefty and attitude.

Coach Lefty Driesell came to Davidson College in the fall with an outstanding high school coaching record. He was described
in Virginia coaching circles as “unbeatable on his home court, and virtually the same elsewhere.” His most outstanding recommendations were
his ability to teach a boy how to play basketball, and then get him fired up for a game. Despite
all these assets, Driesell had two strikes against him when he arrived. He was inheriting a team that had won
but five of 24 games a year ago. There was a general indifference toward the sport existing among players and
students. Area basketball fans claimed, “That poor guy is gonna get knocked off his cloud when he sees his material.”
But Driesell saw his material, began rounding it into shape, and stayed on his cloud. He spoke of Davidson’s possibilities
of being the next conference champion. He talked of national rating. He talked about the time when “people will flock
down here to watch us play, instead of Duke or Carolina.” And the skeptics smiled.

On the day before the season’s opener, the rookie mentor told a newspaperman, “I just don’t think it will be
a losing season.” The next night, his “new look” Wildcats beat Wake Forest, 62-59. And the skeptics frowned. The long
drought then set in, and things seemed at a norm again. Whatever was wrong during those dismal three and a
half weeks, which saw the ’Cats drop seven straight games, Driesell soon found out. He juggled his lineup, and came
up with one that took eight out of the last fifteen games. If Driesell didn’t vastly improve Davidson’s record this
year, he did institute something that will prove valuable in future years — a winning attitude. The players entered each
game believing they could win. Driesell’s theory on winning is not blind optimism or idealism. It is sound fact that
has been proved by the world’s Davids over and over. His theory is summed up on the sign that hangs
in the players’ dressing room: “If you want to win badly enough you will.”

Picking The Winners Of The Archaic Tournaments

Archaic is the word to describe the Southern and Atlantic Coast Conference basketball tournaments that get underway this weekend at
Richmond and Raleigh, respectively. For three hectic days, won-lost records will be thrown out the window as each conference seeks
a champion — and all-time attendance records. In the span of 72 hours, the team that will represent each conference
in the NCAA playoffs will be decided. Meanwhile, the rest of the nation’s conference champs, already decided in regular season
play, sit back and pray for Virginia and VMI to win. We are very much opposed to the tournament system,
no matter how much money it nets. We believe that the team who proves that it is the best during
a three-month span is the champion — not a team that gets hot three straight nights.

Despite our sentiment, we admit some exciting basketball is in store. We'll also stick our necks out and pull two
predictions from the crystal ball . . . West Virginia to defeat The Citadel in the Southern’s finals, while Wake
Forest is nipping Duke down at Raleigh.

HELPING TRACKSTERS Polley And Staples Assume New Duties By STEVE CLARK Davidsonian Sports Editor

Ever wonder why a Bible professor and a college chaplain are assistant track coaches at Davidson this year? Well, when
graduation eliminated several key track men last year, and when Coach Meath Whittle headed south to pay several schools a
visit this semester, the school authorities decided they would have to call on something more powerful than a pep pill
or a pep talk in order to maintain our winning ways on the cinders this spring. So they called on
two men who have a very intimate relationship with a real Power. Dr. Max Polley and Dr. George Staples were
recruited. Seriously, there are better reasons than these men’s religious influence that have given them their new positions.

DASH-MAN POLLEY Dr. Polley was an outstanding dash-man while at Albion College, Michigan. He ran the 100 and the 220-yard
dashes. His best time in the 100 was a respectable 10.2 seconds. Polley explained, “We were in conference meets.”

Davidsonian The Davidson College

Sgt. Jim McCurry, who coaches the riflers, expects to place fifth in the meet behind powerhouses West Virginia, Citadel, VPI
and VMI. “With a good day we might take fourth,” he added.

STATE CHAMPS McCurry's gunslingers were victorious in the state tournament last Saturday at A & T College in Greensboro.

Carolina's Don Harper Paces ROTC RIFLE TEAM

This week's “Wildcat of the Week” honors go to Don Harper, leading scorer of the highly regarded Davidson ROTC rifle
squad. Last week, Harper, paced the local marksmen to the state title, when he fired scores of 376 and 373
out of a possible 400 points with his trusty .22 caliber rifle. These scores enabled him to be Davidson’s high
man, and he finished second only to Carolina’s ace when everyone's scores had been totaled. The state meet was a
four-position contest, but regular season matches are three-position affairs. In regular season, Harper’s best score was an excellent 287 out
of a possible 300. Harper is a senior from Rock Hill, S. C., where his rifle career started. “I used
to do a lot of hunting,” he admits, “and that’s how I got interested in shooting. My freshman year, the
ROTC instructor made an announcement about the rifle team. I decided to give it a roll on certain nights. On
nights it didn’t roll, Markee was ’Cats, in addition to his 10.7 re- By GEORGE PEPPER Sports Writer

ROTC rifle team will travel to Blacksburg, Va., tomorrow for the highlight match of the season — the Southern Conference
tournament. Air Force ROTC unit and the Tarheel’s Navy ROTC unit placed second and third respectively. Forty-five riflemen from various
ROTC units throughout the state entered the competition. When the smoke had cleared, Davidson gunners had placed three men in
the first six. They were as follows: Don Harper, second place; Bill Blakely, third, and Marvin Rozear, sixth. All three
were elected to the All-State rifle team.

18 TROPHIES In addition the team brought home eighteen of the twenty-seven trophies awarded. The trophies are currently on display
in Colonel Adams’ office. Following the outstanding performance at the state meet, the sharp-shooters enter the tough conference meet with
an overall record of 18-7. In addition to the All-State marksmen, Jimmy McBride, Ronnie Lewis, James Young, Bob Barringer, Mac
Foster, and Skip Goodwin have contributed much to the rifle team’s success.

By BILL PRIDGEN Davidsonian Sports Writer

2 Tournaments Tomorrow

Davidson's matmen left yesterday morning for the West Virginia University campus and the Southern Conference tournament. Tuesday night, Coach Charlie
Parker’s men endedTheir regular season by blanking Pfeiffer, 30-0. Thus they will carry to Morgantown a 5-5 overall record. Parker
described the Pfeiffer shutout as a "great team effort." Each Wildcat was a standout in his event, making it hard
to point out any single outstanding wrestler. Ken Barger (123), Tom Wright (130), Charles Trask (137), Linton Wray (147), and
Ben McCoy (157) won decisions. Meanwhile, teammates Harry Brown (167), Butch LeDoyen (177), and Cliff Thompson (heavyweight) were pinning their
opponents. Held there this weekend. "VPI boys are just too tough," he commented. "My gosh, two of them almost made
the Olympic team." Davidson finished fourth last year, and chances of moving up are pretty slim.

Indoor Trackmen Prepare To Go Out

Last Saturday, the Davidson College indoor track team never got going and finished last in the Southern Conference tournament at
Lexington, Va. A swift Furman nipped VMI by one point for the coveted championship. The Citadel finished third. Coach Roger
Thrift explained, "Competition was really keen. Some of our boys couldn't get by the trials." Parker was most pleased with
the definite improvement his men showed in this victory. Earlier in the season, the 'Cats had downed the Falcons by
a score of 23-11 on the Pfeiffer mats. Parker designates VPI as the definite favorite in the conference tourney. "VMI,
Citadel, and West Virginia are all contenders, but those VPI boys are just too tough," he commented. "My gosh, two
of them almost made the Olympic team." Davidson finished fourth last year, and chances of moving up are pretty slim.

By JERRY TRAMMEL
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Last Saturday night the Davidson Wildcats were halted in their final bid for a berth in the Southern Conference tournament
by the accurate shooting of The Citadel.

BAD NIGHT

It was a bad night for the Wildcats from the very beginning as the ball was fumbled, passes were intercepted,
and baskets were just barely missed. Coach Lefty Driesell tried desperately to salvage the game by liberal substitutions, but he
was unable to find a winning combination. Managing to cut an early Citadel lead to six points, the Wildcats trailed
at halftime by a score of 36-30. However, All-Conference Gary Daniels led the Bulldogs in a second-half surge. Daniels finished
with 25 points. Jarman led the Davidson scoring with 24 points, while Joe Markee tallied 14. The Citadel game was
typical of the hot and cold character of the Wildcats’ 1960-61 season. Having lost to the Bulldogs by only one
point at Davidson, the Wildcats dropped the all-important game there by a total of 24 points.

FINISH WITH 9-14 MARK
Hoopsters Close Season; Driesell Looks To Next One

One of the season’s brighter spots was a surprise win over Wake Forest, at that time ranked 11th in the
nation. On the other hand, the season’s most embarrassing defeat was suffered at VPI by a score of 105-59. The
Wildcats lost 14 games by a total of 88 points for an average of less than 7 points. The worst
home-court defeat was to VPI 79-72. With an overall record of 9 wins and 14 defeats, the Wildcats managed only
2 out of 12 Southern Conference contests.

OUTSTANDING PLAYERS

Senior Co-Captain and honorable mention for All-Conference Joe Markee led the team in scoring and rebounding. He poured in 308
points for an average of 16.5, and he added 224 rebounds for a 10.7 average.

REMEMBER WAKE FOREST?
Honorable Mention Markee Recognized On All-Loop Team

Sophomore Bill Jarman collected 351 points and 191 rebounds for respective averages of 15.3 and 9.1. Bill Shinn, a senior,
who had to fight his way back to his starting position, came on late with some accurate shooting to mark
up 197 points. From its 1960-61 squad, Davidson loses four seniors: guard Bill Cannon, forward Bill Shinn, center Jim Nuckolls,
and forward Joe Markee. Coach Driesell is already planning for next year. He insists that those who will return begin
individual workouts immediately to develop jumping power and shooting accuracy. He has high hopes for the 1961-62 Southern Conference struggle.

President Mike Van Doeren commented that discussion was good, and that the council hopes to come up with a satisfactory
plan. In addition, IMAC tentatively scheduled the I-F track meet for Monday, March 20, and Wednesday, March 22. However, weather
may again cause indefinite postponement of the meet. Meanwhile, basketball and handball action continued this week.

BASKETBALL

Monday: The Betas won their fifth game in a row as Bill Wallace and Tommy Hamilton hit 16 and 14
points respectively, in a 86-42 upending of the Independents. Earl Cole hit 14 for the losers. Lee Cory popped in
17 points and Doug Orr hit 16 to lead the SAE’s to an 82-16 walloping of the Sigma Nus, whose
only bright spot was Bill Kirkland with 10. The Pi Kapps had to pour it on in the last few
minutes to edge the ATO’s, 36-31. Quinton Boyd gunned in 13 for the winners. The Sigma Chis made use of
the free throw line in the final quarter to pull away from the Kappa Sigs and win, 39-30. Freshman Billy
Barron paced the Chis’ attack with 11, while Kappa Sig frosh pivotman Jim Fuller hit 13.

STANDINGS

W L
Kappa Alpha 5 0
Kappa Sig 6 1
Phi Gam 5 1
Beta 5 1
SAE 5 1
Sigma Chi 4 2
Phi Delt 3 2
Independent 2 4
ATO 2 5
Sig Ep 1 5
Sigma Nu 0 6

Wednesday: Hight Redmond scored 16 as the KA’s roared into first place with a 50-41 victory over the Pikas. The
Phi Delts handed the Betas their first loss and a 51-25 shellacking as Van Austin and Andy Boggs scored 13
each. The Phi Gams won their fifth in a row by downing the Independents, 57-41. The Pi Kapps defeated the
Sig Eps. The Sigma Chis clipped the ATO’s. The Kappa Sigs walloped the Sigma Nus, 68-37.

KA’s Scorch I-F Nets; IMAC Tables New Duties

Wednesday night, the Intramural Athletic Council tabbed new constitutional and eligibility laws, and will vote on them at next week's
meeting.

The Sigma Nus. The SAE’s downed the Betas, the Sig Eps clobbered the Independents, the Phi Gams clipped the Sigma
Nus, the ATO’s edged the Phi Delts, and the Sigma Chis beat the KA’s.

HANDBALL

The Kappa Sigs defeated the SAE’s, the Sig Eps whipped the Pikas, the Independents forfeited to the ATO’s. The Sigma
Chis beat the Phi Gams, Phi Delts knocked off the KA's, and the Betas won by forfeit from the Sigma
Nus.

Haynes Kelly (KA) shoots as Aubrey Lancaster (Pi Kapps) defends.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.
