Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO — FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1961
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Who's Out Of Step?

Student and trustee action on the problem of college integration occupied the headlines of campus newspapers at Wake Forest and
Emory University this week. The situation in both instances brought to mind our own; their success and speed only served
to remind us of our lack of progress.

In Winston-Salem, where the student body has been supporting a student from Nigeria all year, the plea went out again
to the Baptist State Convention meeting this week for complete integration of the undergraduate school. There, the students are very
much a part of the effort to integrate that church-related campus completely. Trustees have already lowered the racial barrier to
graduate school, night school, and summer school.

One year ago, Davidson and Wake Forest, both church-related, intensified attempts for change regarding integration. The faculties of both schools
supported integration. Today, Wake Forest has enjoyed some success. Much of this is due to student effort (See also editorial
reprinted on this page).

In Atlanta, members of the student body and faculty of Emory have been striving for integration for some time. They
were encouraged by the fact that Emory will consider advice from students and faculty regarding integration. They are working towards
integration despite Georgia's laws which deny tax-exempt status to private schools operating on a segregated basis. Despite this, and encouraged
by trustee statements, students and faculty are pressing for the next logical step—defying the unjust state laws even at the
risk of financial loss to fulfill what they feel is an essential step for a church-related college of high standards.

There are those at Davidson who also feel essential steps must be taken on the integration issue. Last February, we
were heartened by trustee approval of admitting Congolese. Unfortunately, we have no Congolese student this year, and the administration reports
it is unlikely we will find an acceptable student in time for registration next fall. Thus we lag behind our
sister institutions to the north and south—both in advances in eliminating racial segregation and prejudice and in campus discussion and
action. The faculty has said little recently. Students seem unconcerned since the failure to receive a Congolese this fall. When
efforts should have been stepped up, they were not. But if any progress is to be made, the college family—administration,
faculty, and student body—will have to make itself heard. This should be done in preparation for the trustees meeting in
February and in honor of a new policy. We salute the Wake Forest group urging integration. We salute the Emory
trustees. We envy them. We are ashamed that Davidson is not the church-related college leading the way for the South.

Free Press We Give Thanks

THE DAVIDSONIAN feels that it is appropriate to comment here on the recent suppression of a student columnist at Randolph-Macon
College (see article on this page) both from a moral responsibility to support a fellow journalist and because the case
is so happily inapplicable to the Davidson scene. Phil Whitacre was suppressed and punished for commenting on what seems to
be a universal collegiate problem, the cafeteria food. The administration’s subsequent action seems to indicate a true need for reform.
The columnist made a number of good suggestions and one rather rash one. The reaction of the administration, however, is
much more shocking than Whitacre’s comments. Not only was this muzzling of the press uncalled for under the circumstances, but
it violates the ideals of both democracy and education. Just as a free press is necessary to a free nation,
free expression of student opinion is essential to a real liberal education. Education is not brain-washing; it should be a
free search for the good and true—a free search by both the faculty and students. If the Randolph-Macon administration silences
the press on account of a dining hall gripe, what would they say to an editorial attacking segregation, the administration,
the trustees, or any issue which did not fit the administration’s public-relations image?

Of course, freedom implies responsibility—the critic should be responsible in both the object and method of his criticism. And freedom
should be worth fighting for. We are puzzled that the Yellow Jacket's editor has made no effort to defend his
columnist and the freedoms to which he as a newspaperman should be devoted. Phil Whitacre’s case reminds us that a
college administration has extraordinary powers over its students, and that some administrations are not unaccustomed to misusing these powers in
a most immoral way, chaining necessary liberties and smothering truth wantonly. Phil Whitacre’s case also reminds us that this is
not the case at Davidson. We are happy that at the recent Collegiate Press Convention in Miami, Davidson became known
as “that liberal college.” Fellow delegates were amazed at Davidson's long tradition of freedom of the press and free expression
of student opinion.

We are all most fortunate in having a President, who as a former DAVIDSONIAN Editor, realizes fully the necessity of
freedom of the press and an administration and faculty which, although not always agreeing with our opinions, have always defended
our right to express these opinions.

L. K.

The Vagabonds And Their Patrons

The Vagabonds scored favorably last week with their production of Anouilh’s “Antigone.” Attendance was especially good for the three performances,
with eight people even watching the play from the light booth Friday night when seating space was unavailable. Those eight
were students from Lees-McRae College who made the trip just for this performance. It was particularly gratifying to the cast
and stage crew that someone was that interested, even to the point of standing throughout the performance. Response was favorable
from other nearby colleges, too. Students from Charlotte College, Queens and others made the trip to Hodson Hall. Over 200
students from other colleges attended during the three nights, some from more than 100 miles away. Unfortunately, this surpassed the
number of Davidson students present, who had a choice of three nights and a distance of only a few hundred
yards at most. Some 198 Davidson gentlemen made it. The performances were good, and the attendance was good. But then
look at the people attending. We congratulate the Vagabonds on their success. We look forward with great anticipation for a
restaging of the Wakefield Master’s “Second Shepherd's Play” between Thanksgiving and Christmas. That play was one of the group’s first
and best received successes. It is a play well worth becoming a Davidson holiday season tradition. Could we make that
request, Vagabonds?

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Lee Kirby

BUSINESS MANAGER
Don Saunders

Associate Editors
Bill Hagen
Mac Plaxico

Sports Editor
Steve Clark

Assignments Editor
Jeff Wampler

Feature Editor
Bill Ruth

News Editor
Sam Fort

Managing Editors
David Jorden
Gene Adcock

Photographer
Joe McCutchen

Cartoonists
Doug Ackerman
Joe Howell
Dan Adams

Advertising Manager
Ed Willer

Circulation Manager
Clay Atkins

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Pass In Review!

European integration

BY RUDY GLARNER

The problem of European Economic integration has been discussed in recent articles, but none has brought in the problems of
the small nations. Switzerland has always taken a very positive position to the whole idea of European integration. For a
small nation, the freedom of international markets is a most important factor. A small nation needs as large a foreign
trade as possible.

NEUTRALITY

However, Switzerland, if she wants to retain the neutral tradition she has had for such a long time, could not
blindly join any of the new international organizations. Neutrality, as a principle of foreign policy, forbids Switzerland to enter any
coalition or organization which is directed against another group of states. It is impossible for her to join any treaty-group
which has a military character, a unilateral economic goal, or which could make any restrictions to her sovereignty. Also, Switzerland
could not join an organization which unifies the tariff of foreign trade or blocks foreign trade.

The hesitation of Switzerland to join those organizations has often been interpreted as an egoistic position. But Switzerland has shown
that she wants to help the European integration as much as is possible by her joining the EFTA or Outer
Seven. She could never have joined the Common Market because of the points discussed above.

GREAT BRITAIN

England's entering the Common Market makes Switzerland's position more difficult. When Great Britain enters the Common Market, other nations of
the EFTA will enter too. Again Switzerland will be faced with the question of either joining the Common Market or...

Court Sees Gambling Rule As ‘Reasonable Restraint’

BY HARRISON WELLFORD
Honor Court Chairman

In light of President Martin's comment in chapel last week concerning the Executive Committee’s recent interpretation of the gambling rule
in the Student Body Regulations, the Honor Court would like at this time to make its position clear on this
matter. The Executive Committee’s statement is as follows: “Gambling is defined as an organized game of skill or chance, the
main purpose of which is the accumulation of money and in which more than two people are involved.” Although the
Honor Court has operated in the past in essential agreement with this interpretation of gambling, it feels that some elaboration...Here
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ORGANIZED GAMBLING

The Honor Court is concerned particularly with gambling that has been organized over a significant period of time and in
which the motive of the participants has been to gain a definite monetary reward rather than to enjoy the sport
of a game of chance. This interpretation would apply in particular to any gambling organized by influences outside the college,
although the actual incidence of gambling must take place on the Davidson campus. The above interpretations are presented with the
realization that they do not encompass specifically all cases that might arise under the gambling rule.

BEYOND ABILITY

It is perhaps beyond the ability of any rule to delineate the nature of every instance of gambling that might
be considered ungentlemanly conduct. The Court feels that the purpose of the gambling rule in the Student Body Regulations is
mainly to exercise a reasonable restraint in the area of gambling. The Honor Court will endeavor to judge each case
on its own merits, taking into consideration all circumstances involved, and then to render a decision in keeping with the
spirit of the rule and in the best moral interest of those students concerned.

I don't know what decision Switzerland will take nor do I know if there have been any changes in tendency
concerning this question.

FREE TRADE

I believe that Switzerland will still try to do as much as she can for free trade and help to
build up an atmosphere of understanding among the nations of the free world. Switzerland is convinced that she can contribute
much more in seeking for a general understanding and a freer trade among the free world than by joining this
one organization. This organization would surely restrict Switzerland's neutrality and sovereignty. It would be no longer possible for Switzerland to
serve all the nations equally as she does now.

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten,
double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with
the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should not be received later than 6 p.m.
Wednesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 218, Davidson, N.C.

Observer Lauds Spirit Of Wake’s Persistence (From The Charlotte Observer)

The younger generation is usually several steps in front of the adults in willingness to knock down artificial barriers based
on race. Back when a mob was raging outside a dormitory at the University of Georgia, demanding the expulsion of
Negro student Charmayne Hunter, white coeds were in her room making her welcome. And, at Wake Forest College, a group
of students persists in extending a helping hand to a youth from Ghana in an effort to break the college’s
color bars.

The Wake Forest students’ support of 19-year-old Edward Reynolds is regarded by many adults as unrealistic idealism or youthful irresponsibility.
But we would wager that their feelings and actions eventually will be a strong factor in the admission of Negroes
to the undergraduate school. The student leaders have shown determination and ingenuity in raising funds to get the African youth
here and enrolling him in Shaw University at Raleigh. They won’t be satisfied, however, until the trustees of their college
admit Reynolds or some other scholastically qualified Negro student to the Baptist school.

In fairness to the trustees, it should be said that they have approved admission of Negro students to graduate schools
and as special students in evening classes and summer sessions. But they have been reluctant to accept undergraduates until the
denominational pulse stops racing. The students, answering only to their own convictions in the matter, have contributed to policy changes
already made. They have done so at personal sacrifice of time, energy, and money. We're betting their youthful idealism will
before long be fully rewarded, for theirs is an idea whose time has clearly come.

Student Eats Words At Randolph-Macon BY DON SAUNDERS Davidsonian Associate Editor

The student voice of Randolph-Macon Men’s College, Ashland, Virginia, is nervously quiet these days. The Yellow Jacket had found itself
the center of controversy in an apparently long-standing feud between students and the cafeteria food service. Then, in a quick
move last month, the college administration took action against Phil Whitacre, a columnist on the paper.

In a column on Sept. 29, Whitacre wrote on the evils of a cafeteria in which all students must take
their meals. He had a number of gripes: the building was designed before a large increase in enrollment, and is
too small for the number of students fed; service had become sloppy; and students felt prices of “extras” were too
high. In his article, Whitacre made a number of constructive suggestions which were later followed. He also said: “I would
hate to suggest a food strike such as was so successfully carried out at High Point College a few years
ago with very favorable results. But I am not so sure I would not oppose the idea if such were
needed. Right now I am convinced that it is not necessary.”

It was to this paragraph that college officials took offense. In surprise action, the writer was charged with technically inciting
a riot, and hailed into the president's office. Administration officials objected to mentioning High Point College “in other than praise
or announcement.” Because Whitacre is over 21, he could have been threatened with legal action. After a closed conference with
the president and the dean of students, it was decreed that Whitacre would resign from his post as columnist on
The Yellow Jacket. Although no legal action was taken against Whitacre, he was refunded his board money and is now
refused service in the cafeteria.

Today no one will talk about the incident. No editorial comment has ever appeared in The Yellow Jacket; everybody seems
to fear further reprisal. A student committee has been formed to investigate cafeteria conditions in a manner seemingly more fitting
to the college administration. Whitacre now eats at the local drug store. Apparently a respected campus leader, he is serving
as editor of the college annual. That publication's name: The Yellow Jacket.

In New Traffic Court Students Pay, Appeal BY GREG GOVAN Davidsonian Staff Writer

In obedience to the command of John Kuykendall, the students went forward to pay their fines to Mrs. Fleagle or
stepped to the back of the room to tell their “gripes.” Traffic court was in session in 126 Chambers.

THE DAVIDSONIAN later interviewed Richard C. Burts, dean of students, about the new court. Asked for a general comment, Burts
stated that he was “quite pleased with the operation.” And while there was no definite evidence to back it up,
there seemed to be a decrease in the number of violations. “The men are just plain co-operating,” Burts commented, and
added that the problem of traffic was no longer being paid just lip-service. Despite the fact that the watch on
traffic has been doubled with the addition of Security Officer Smith, the number of violations has decreased because the students
are at last becoming aware that traffic is something of importance.

DOLLAR FINE

Burts explained that the fine for a violation was one dollar. While the fines do not increase with a repetition
of offenses, there is an “accumulative effect.” A great accumulation of offenses may prompt the court to restrict the car
of a multiple offender.

Why was the court organized? Burts stated that he had worked with a similar organization before, and its necessity was
illustrated here because of the burden on Mrs. Fleagle of collecting the fines piecemeal. “But more important,” he added, “there
existed an unsatisfactory situation as regards students’ extenuating circumstances.” The appeal system was not meeting the needs.

TWENTY CASES

Now, every week the court hears about 20 cases, of whom between five and ten will probably appeal their tickets.
“We usually split up the middle on letting the appeals stand,” said Burts. “This should show the students that we
know how to say ‘yes’ also,” he added with a smile.

In addition to the Dean of Students (or Mr. Kuykendall, in his absence) and whomever may be needed to handle
extra loads, there is present a Student Council observer. His purpose is to be an impartial observer and evaluator of
the court’s activities.

“Of course, it is really too early to make any definite observations. We really haven't had a chance to seriously
evaluate the court,” Burts remarked.

ENTIRE TRAFFIC PROGRAM

As a special emphasis, Burts pointed out that it was a mistake to think of the court as merely a
parking ticket program. In reality, though the majority of its cases involve parking, the court is part of the entire
traffic program, and is set up to handle registration, speeding, and other violations, though the last two have not been
encountered as of yet.

By way of evaluation, Burts summed up the court as being very successful, both from the standpoint of making the
students more traffic conscious and creating better student relations by a streamlining of the appeals process. Back in room 126
on Fridays, the students are apt to agree to the first point, and three or four are sure to heartily
endorse the second.
