FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1961 — Sideline By STEVE CLARK

THE LAST GAME is over for thirteen Davidson football players tomorrow afternoon when the final gun sounds at the end
of the Wofford game. Thirteen seniors will take off the old pads for the last time and hang up that
famous piece of athletic equipment that David Dakin made so popular for the last time. Some will be glad; some
won't. But regardless of each man’s personal feelings when he finishes his football career, all will have something in common.
All of them have put in four hard years of work for Davidson College. All of them have sweated, knocked
heads, received innumerable bumps and bruises, and put in long hours of practice trying to be a better football player.
And yet, it sometimes seems that all of this has been for nothing. If Davidson beats Wofford tomorrow, it will
be only the third time these seniors have tasted victory on their home field. But the work was not wasted.
For most, playing football earned them a college education. For all, it instilled a true feeling of team spirit and
created the healthy desire to win. They have been a part of the most tangible aspect of the Davidson Spirit.
And so tomorrow is the day when thirteen shed their football suits for the clothes of Dr. Ernie Patterson’s cruel
world. We believe they’re better men for it. We salute Booker Clark, Jerry Sheffield, Jennings Snider, Bill Whittington, Lou Zirkle,
Bill Salzer, Bill Shumaker, Dave Lovette, Cecil Holcomb, Bruce Usher, Duncan Morton, Lynwood Mallard, and Bob McAllister. Thanks, fellows. Davidson
College is indebted to you for a job well done.

NOTES

THE WOFFORD SERIES began in 1914, and since then Davidson has won 19, lost 4, and tied 1. Wofford won
last year, 6-0.

RUMORED that Lefty Driesell wants to play Cincinnati in basketball next year. The Bearcats defeated Ohio State a year ago
for the national championship.

HATS OFF to Joe Martin and his cheerleaders for the fine job they have been doing this year in stirring
up school spirit. They plan to continue their work during basketball season and will even be selling tickets in the
dorms to the Wake Forest opener in Winston-Salem on Dec. 2.

THE CRYSTAL BALL (29-18)

DAVIDSON wants to break even so bad they can taste it. And we believe they will. Wofford is good, but
an inspired Wildcat band playing their last game of the season should be too much for the Terriers. Pick Davidson,
21-13.

The fact that The Citadel is Southern Conference champion should give Florida State just enough incentive to beat the Bulldogs,
who should suffer a letdown after last week's title clincher. Pick Florida State, 7-3.

Richmond could really bring the conference some prestige if they won tomorrow. But that’s just about the biggest if I
can think of. The Spiders play number two nationally-ranked Alabama, and the Tide isn't going to stop rolling this week.
Pick Bama, 28-7.

Other predictions: Furman 21, East Carolina 7; VMI 20, Buffalo 6; Wake Forest 14, VPI 0; Penn State 14, West
Virginia 7; and Army 28, William & Mary 6.

BUTCH LEDOYEN (on left), university wrestling team captain, works out with freshman ED BOSTON. Both varsity and frosh matmen began
full-scale practice this week in preparation for their Dec. 1 opener at Pfeiffer. COACH CHARLIE PARKER considers this year’s mat
team one of the finest ever.

New Shipment NAVY CAMEL HAIR V NECK SWEATERS CARDIGANS ALSO Bush Wilson, Ltd.

Comments

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG DAY

Wofford Here Tomorrow ’Cats Seek To Break Even in Season Finale

The Davidson football team will be out to finish the season on a high note tomorrow when they face Wofford
at Richardson Stadium. The Wildcats are looking to break even for the season with a win.

Rifle Team Beats PC Behind Rozear

The Davidson rifle team won their first match of the season last Friday by defeating Presbyterian, 1336-1297, on the firing
range in the basement of Belk Dorm. Marvin Rozear was high man for the ’Cats with a 284 total, out
of a possible 300. It was the second-highest score Rozear has ever fired and only a few points away from
the school record. Other ’Cat riflemen include Bill Blakely, Bob Barringer, Jim Young, Ronnie Lewis, Joe Burdette, Bill Pridgen, and
Hubert Bell. Sgt. Mac McCurry, team coach, believes this year's team will be “about the same as last year.” Last
year the riflemen compiled an 18-15 record. The rest of the schedule is as follows: Nov. 17—Furman and Clemson at
Furman; Dec. 1—at PC; 2—N. C. State, here; 9—The Citadel and East Tenn. St., here; Jan. 12—Wofford and Wake Forest,
here; Feb. 16—Furman and Clemson, here; 23—at Wofford; March 2—Southern Conference tournament at Fort Lee, Va.; 3—NRA Sectional at Ft.
Lee; 16—PC, Wofford, Furman, and Clemson at Clemson.

Wildkittens Jell; End Season Today

The freshman football team closed out their season by entertaining Gardner-Webb Junior College at 3 p.m. today in Richardson Stadium.
Gardner-Webb is champion of their conference and had four straight wins going into today's game. The Wildkittens now have a
1-3 record following last Saturday’s upset of nationally-ranked Ferrum Junior College, 26-25. The ’Kittens knocked Ferrum out of a possible
junior college Rose Bowl invitation. The ’Kittens' touchdowns came on short runs by quarterback Barry Story and halfback Tommy Worrell,
and a pass from Story to end Sam Grimes. Worrell scored twice, and Story kicked the two deciding extra points.
Coach Charlie Parker feels the team has finally jelled and will be ready for varsity competition next year.

FUTURE GRIDIRON STARS? — Two young local lads seem to be star gazing as the Davidson football team prepares for
its final game with Wofford tomorrow afternoon in Richardson Stadium. (Davidsonian Staff Photo by Joe McCutchen.)

PHI DELTS, KA’S, FIJIS TIE FOR THIRD

K Sigs, Betas Share I-F Flickerball Crown

The Betas could not overcome a 25-7 halftime deficit in their completion game with the SAE's on Wednesday and lost
32-20, thus giving them a tie with the Kappa Sigs for the I-F flickerball championship. The game was interrupted earlier
in the season due to the injury of SAE Tommy Tuttle, with the clock showing 23 seconds left in the
first half and the SAE’s leading, 25-7. The 23 seconds and the second half were played Wednesday, and the Betas
could only narrow the margin to two TD's as they outscored the SAE’s 13-7 in the second half. The IF
game of the week came on Monday, however, when the Kappa Sigs and KA's battled for what turned out to
be a co-championship. Since both were sporting 9-2 records, the winner was assured of either a co-championship with the Betas
or sole possession of second place at the least. Led by Johnny Rogers, Jimmy Hendricks, and Johnny Almond, the Sigs
won, 32-25. But they had to come from behind to do it. The KA’s led at halftime, 19-12, and increased
this margin to 25-12 early in the second half on a long play from Rick Smyre to Nat Watson to
Jerry Shelton. Other action this week went as follows: Monday — the Phi Gams clinched a tie for third place
by downing the Pikas; the Phi Delts did the same with a 26-19 win over the ATO’s; and the Betas
whipped the SPE's, 66-7. Wednesday — the Sigma Chis squeaked by the Sigma Nus, 13-12; and the Pi Kapps garnered
their first win by downing the Independents, 31-20. The Betas now hold an early lead in the overall I-F standings,
with the Phi Delts and Kappa Sigs close behind in that order. The swimming meet will be sometime before Thanksgiving
and the wrestling meet is scheduled for shortly after that holiday. I-F basketball should get underway soon.Sometime before Christmas.

GES

“LOOK WHAT I FOUND!” says Beta flickerball player HANK competition next year.

Lopp’s Long Runs Excite ‘Cat Fans

One of the most exciting runners Davidson has had in a long time might be the best way to describe
sophomore halfback Dave Lopp, our “Wildcat of the Week.” Last weekend at William & Mary, the speedster from Lexington, N.C.,
took a pitchout from quarterback Earl Cole and stepped 61 yards down the sidelines for the first of his two
TDs in that wild fourth quarter. His second tally came just moments later, following a recovered fumble by Booker Clark
on the Indians’ five, when Cole hit him with a quick pass in the endzone.

Lopp seems to have a knack for the homerun play. He electrified Davidson fans in the Homecoming clash with PC,
when he intercepted a pass early in the game and returned it 75 yards to paydirt. He also ran well
against VMI. In that game, a collision with a fellow teammate kept him from returning a punt 62 yards to
paydirt.

DAVE LOPP

But the Kappa Sigs caught fire and roared right back after the kickoff on a 54-yard scoring play from Rogers
to Hendricks to Almond. Another TD moments later gave the winners a 26-25 edge, and a Rogers to Eddy Earle
TD pass iced the game.

FINAL STANDINGS

Betas 10 2
Kappa Sigs 10 2
KA’s 9 3
Phi Delts 9 3
SAE’s 8 4
ATO’s 6 6
Chi 6 6
Independents 4 8
Sigma Nus 3 9
Pikas 2 10
Phi Gams 1 11

TRY OUR DAILY SPECIAL LUNCHEON: CHOICE OF MEAT, TWO VEGETABLES, HOT ROLL, TEA OR COFFEE ONLY

WE ALSO SPECIALIZE IN PIZZA

All Our Food Prepared By “JEFF THE CHEF”

ALL KINDS OF SANDWICHES
COLD DRINKS

CONNOISSEUR
NORTH MAIN, MOORESVILLE

See on Saturday, November 18.

ACERMAN as he catches touchdown pass against the SPE’s in Monday’s I-F action, which ended Wednesday with the Betas and
Kappa Sigs tied for the championship. Sig Ep RUSS FERRELL (left) defends on the play.

Visit Duke Booters This Monday Afternoon

BY BILL PRIDGEN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

This afternoon the Davidson soccer team met a newly formed Appalachian team here. The ‘Cats were heavily favored in the
match. Monday afternoon the booters travel to Durham to meet one of their toughest opponents of the season—Duke. Earlier this
year, the Blue Devils whipped N.C. State, 10-0, a team that tied Davidson, 3-3, here last Thursday.

Coach Harry Fogelman commented on the Duke match by saying, “Using comparative scores, they should beat us by 8 or
9 goals. In everyone's (coaches, referees, press) opinion, they have the best soccer team in these parts.”

The Wildcats will carry a record of two straight victories over the Blue Devils to Durham. In 1959 they toppled
the Devils, 1-0, and last year they clipped the Methodist men here, 3-2.

This past Tuesday, Davidson lost a heartbreaker to Pfeiffer, 3-2, on the Falcons’ home soil. Trailing 2-1 in the second
half, the scholarship-rich Falcons rallied for the win, their ninth of the season. The 'Cats are now 4-2-1. Joe Kelly
and Allen Jones booted goals for the ‘Cats. Kelly and Fred Schoen are the team’s leading scorers.

Fogelman tabbed the Pfeiffer match “a well-played match by both teams,” and he added that his team could easily be
undefeated right now if a few extra breaks had fallen somewhere along the way. The ‘Cats have outscored their opponents,
24-13, and have lost only one match by more than one goal—to UNC, 0-2.

Following the Duke match, Davidson closes out its soccer season at Emory in Atlanta, Ga., with an even record.

PAGE THREE

Tomorrow at 2 p.m., the Wofford Terriers visit Richardson Stadium on Charlotte-Mecklenburg Day. Coach Bill Dole’s men currently have a
3-4 record following a 31-30 heart-stopping victory over William & Mary last weekend. Leading 31-14 in the fourth quarter, the
‘Cats survived a last-minute barrage by the Indians, who gambled for two extra points instead of kicking for the “sure”
one and a tie. But the Davidson defense arose to the occasion, and the ‘Cats had themselves a conference win,
which enabled them to escape the cellar.

There were many heroes in the William & Mary win, but the following stood out in particular: Earl Cole, who
threw for two TDs; Alex Gibbs, who caught one of Cole’s TD passes and who threw one himself to Jerry
Sheffield; Dave Lopp, who scored two TDs; Booker Clark, who recovered a timely fumble and who played his usual bang-up
game; and Bruce Usher, who booted a 19-yard field goal and the four deciding extra points.

Wofford combines a strong aerial game and a devastating ground game for their offensive machine that has scored 162 points
in 8 games. This offense has enabled them to compile a 5-2-1 record, with wins over Elon, PC, Newberry, E.
Tenn. St., and Catawba. Their losses were to Howard and Furman, and they tied Lenoir Rhyne on opening night.

Quarterback Tommy Ellis is the big wheel in the Terriers’ offense. He hurled two TD passes in the Lenoir Rhyne
game, and he outclassed Furman’s highly touted Bill Canty in their game, which Furman won by the slim margin of
12-7. Halfback Bob Roma is a powerful runner, who romped 84 yards for a TD against Furman and who tallied
3 times last week against Catawba.

Dole plans no radical changes for the club's final game. However, several injuries against William & Mary may force him
to make some personnel adjustments. Defensive end Jennings Snider was injured and is not expected to see action. Also, defensive
halfback Bob Cordle was reinjured and may have to sit this one out.

Probable starting lineups, offensive and defensive, are as follows:

Offense
LE—Booker Clark
LT—Mike Owen
LG—Morris Williams
C—Joe Ansley
RG—Dave Lovette
RT—Bill Dole, Jr.
RE—Bill Whittington
QB—Earl Cole
HB—Alex Gibbs
HB—Joe Jones
FB—Bob MacAllister

Defense
LE—Mickie Slaughter
LT—Bill Salzer
LG—Dick Voorhees
RG—Eddie Crutchfield
RT—Russell Walls
RE—Fred McGuirt
LB—Carl Hunt
LB—Bruce Usher
HB—Dave Lopp
HB—Kent Tucker
S—Duncan Morton

Finish 5th In State Meet

BY DENNY PHILLIPS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

North Carolina nipped Duke to take the honors while Wake Forest ran away with the Tech honors in the State
Cross-Country Meet held this past Monday in Raleigh. Duke’s Jerry Nourse set a new course record of 20:52, but UNC
managed to take the team trophy for the second straight year. The final point tabulation showed UNC 35, Duke 37,
Wake Forest 104, Catawba 123, Davidson 126, N.C. State 132, and Atlantic Christian 228.

Sterling Martin, Davidson's top runner, finished 7th in 22:21. David Gilmour was 24th at 23:53, Bob Scales 30th, Charlie Rowe
32nd, and Tim Spiro 33rd.

Wake Forest's Cal Brown captured freshman honors with the time of 10:40.5. The freshmen ran 2 miles while the varsity
course was 4 miles. The Wake Forest frosh copped the team trophy with a low score of 42 points. They
were followed by Duke with 60 points, UNC 61, Davidson 65, Pembroke 154, N.C. State 189, and Campbell 206.

Chester Davis, Davidson's best freshman, finished a close second in 10:43. Other frosh runners from D.C. were Tommy Heffner 5th
at 10:55, Denny Phillips 9th, Ronnie Reese 22nd, and Lewis Norman 27th.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Tastee - Freez
OLD CHARLOTTE HIGHWAY
CORNELIUS

SERVING
HOT DOGS
HAMBURGERS
BARBECUE
CHEESEBURGER
CHUCK WAGON STEAK
MILK SHAKE
SUNDAES
BANANA SPLITS
CONES

HOURS
MON. — SAT. 10-10
SUN. 2-9
OPEN AFTER VESPERS
