/ The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Needed: Student Representation

Perhaps the most significant of the myriad of political promises and proposals swirling about during last week’s campus presidential campaign
was Wyche Fowler's plan to “agitate for student representation on every faculty committee involving student affairs.” This is a progressive,
urgently needed, and not-impractical suggestion. Since the Student Council voted to lift the albatross of drinking rule enforcement off its
own shoulders and hang it around the faculty's neck, at least one faculty committee has been in grave need of
student representation. The drinking problem now sits squarely in the lap of the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social
Life, a group that has had to be quite active this year. This is not to say that the committee
is incapable of doing its job by itself — that it needs help from the students. But we do feel
that the committee could get the job done quicker, more realistically, and more fairly if it had accurate information on
student feelings and conditions surrounding student problems. The way to better information is not through an occasional meeting with IFC
members. The way is through permanent student representation on the committee. As Fowler said, this representation would be for purposes
of communication and not for a voting voice. And why does the committee need information? Simply because most of its
members have never been to an after-dance party, have a rather distorted view of what goes on at these parties,
and have little conception of the mess that would result if action were taken to curfew or chaperone these functions.

The Faculty Fraternity Committee is not the only group that needs student representation, although the consequences of not having student
representation are more severe in this case. We would add to the list Committees on the College Union, Debating and
Dramatics, Artist Series and Public Lectures, and Religious Life. Presently only one group classified under “Committees of the Faculty” has
student representation. This is the Publications Board, which even has a student chairman. Student participation here has certainly not been
detrimental.

Student-Faculty relations at Davidson are excellent — when the relationships exist on an individual basis. But when groups of students
and groups of faculty try to negotiate, they often seem separated by some high, cold barrier. It is almost as
if the old-fashioned relationship of the austere headmaster and the prank-playing schoolboy still exists. The only way to solve the
problem is to get the relationship back on an individual basis. And the only way to do this is to
have permanent student representation where student matters are concerned.

Is The Court Dead?

Yesterday when the student body passed the revised Student Body Constitution, many students thought they had voted to kill the
Court of Control. But is the Court of Control dead? At present we do not think so. Section 5 of
the new By-Laws says that the Freshman Court will be composed of the Freshman Adviser, who will be the judge
of the court, and seven members selected by the Student Council. This Freshman Court will “hear, investigate, and deal with
charges of upperclassmen against Freshmen exhibiting improper conduct, violating the Freshman Regulations, or breaking the traditions of the College.” There
is no difference between the new Freshman Court and the Court of Control, except that the Freshman Advisor is now
head of the court. What assurance do we have that the rising Senior Class will not elect a Freshman Advisor
who favors hazing, chapel call-downs, and severe punishments?

The Invisible Man

George Trask did Wednesday what no student at Davidson College has done before or is likely to do again. He
won the presidency of a student body of which he is not a member. He won from a distance of
some 4000 miles. He won without answering a question or defending a policy. According to the new student body constitution
that was approved yesterday — a constitution which he planned and constructed himself — George Trask will not legally be
president of the student body when he is “inaugurated.” As a matter of fact, he will not even be a
member of the Student Council. For George Trask’s constitution says that no student who withdraws from the college for any
reason can be a member of the Student Council. We trust that by a series of bureaucratic maneuverings likely to
be understood only by incumbent president Henry Shue, George Trask will somehow be allowed to garb himself in the mantle
of authority without any legalistic impedimenta. That’s O.K. with us. The point we’re trying to make is this: The student
body of Davidson College has made a long gamble on an invisible man. We are gambling that George Trask will
be able to grasp the reins of student government in September and spur his steed into a gallop. He will
need to gallop because he will have lost an entire month of valuable experience this spring. We are gambling that
George Trask will be good — good enough to revive in September a governing body that has lain dormant since
April. When we make this gamble we are trusting the invisible man to be mature, rational, and progressive. He has
undertaken an obligation. We have no reason to fear that he will not be able to fulfill his obligation. In
his campaign speech in absentia, Trask linked himself with a Student Council that, among other constructive accomplishments, “revamped the Court
of Control in favor of a more mature, realistic approach toward the entering freshmen.” If he conducts his administration in
keeping with this tone, we're all for him. The gamble will have paid off.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Tom Colvin

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ervin Duggan

Associate Editors
Bob Moore

Managing Editors
David Jordan
Don Saunders

Assignment Editor
Mac Plaxico

Sports Editors
Steve Clark
B. Millner
Charlie Rowe

Feature Editor
Leonard Richardson

Photographers
Jerry Abernathy
Marty Lafferty

Advertising Manager
Olin Nisbet

Circulation Manager
Jimmy Platt

Assistant Bus. Manager
Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

By TOM COLVIN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“The development of the individual and the nation demand that education at every level and in every discipline be strengthened
and its effectiveness enhanced. Above all, schooling should fit the varying capacities of individuals; every student should be stimulated to
work to his utmost; authentic concern for excellence is imperative.” — from Goals for Americans, the Report of the President's
Commission on National Goals.

As usual, the student body presidential race turned up several suggestions concerning new areas for Student Council activity. One worthwhile
suggestion, put forward by candidate Wyche Fowler, received only scattered attention: He suggested that students and the council should develop
a sense of responsibility in higher education.

MEET CHALLENGE

Historian H. G. Wells once wrote: “Human history becomes more and more a race between education and catastrophe.” The threat
of nuclear warfare and the Russian Sputnik have driven Wells’ message home with force. We must meet the Russian challenge
in the realm of ideas, and we must discover a way to control forever the tremendous destructive power, which we
ourselves have created. As President Kennedy put forth so forcefully during his campaign, we must strive for excellence, both individually
and as a nation, in order to measure up to the challenge of our age. We must prepare ourselves for
a world in which, as Thornton Wilder said, “every good and excellent thing stands moment by moment on the razor-edge
of danger and must be fought for.”

AWARENESS

With an awareness of these challenges has come a great increase of interest in education. In the past four years,
there have been published an array of reports on education. All of these sources have arrived at the same conclusion:
our schools must provide better education for larger numbers of students.

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

Dear Editor:

I think that the second paragraph of last week's editorial, “On Campus Reac...“tion,” by Tommy Colvin was unnecessary, unethical, and,
at once, untrue. How did Mr. Colvin know that Dan LaFar was “imaginative” when he was a high school student
during LaFar’s term of office? If he relied on what others had told him about LaFar, as seems probable, then
he is guilty of what I consider to be shabby journalism. The DAVIDSONIAN fails in its position of “The News
and Editorial Voice of Davidson College” when evidently assumed knowledge is used in order to prove a point. The most
glaring violation of ethics and truth was when he termed Dee Green as “ineffectual.” Since I have been at Davidson,
the most worthwhile improvement in the honor system came last year under Green’s leadership when the way was opened for
students expelled for an honor offense to return. I doubt if the student who returned this year as a result
of this change thinks Green was “ineffectual.” Green was quite active also in having the after-dance party pledge by fraternity
presidents deleted from the Student Body Regulations. These are, among others, two reasons why I do not think he was
“ineffectual” as Colvin claims. I think that the paragraph was unnecessary because it was unrelated to Colvin’s hope for mature
judgment in elections. I think that it was unethical because it judged when such judgment was unnecessary and especially because
two past presidents were needlessly judged unfavorably. Finally, I cannot help wondering if Mr. Colvin ever asked “well-intentioned” Ross Smyth
or “ineffectual” Dee Green if he could be of any help to them, or if he ever showed them a
way to better perform their duties.

Bobby Auman
BOB MARQUIS
BOB PIERCE
CARY MORROW

Dear Editor:

Hugh Cannon's speech last week was vaguely reminiscent of Dr. Martin’s speech to the faculty last fall. After Martin’s speech,
we expected shortly some announcement of a special, permanent faculty committee to study ideas related to the tutorial system. Of
course, the administration could never admit any faults within the current classroom approach, but their interest in continued improvement is
foregone. Now we must admit that the lengthy applause given Cannon by the student body was probably indicative more of
disapproval of the current system than enthusiasm over Cannon’s proposals.

YOU’RE THE ONLY ONE ARGUND

Auman Blasts Editorial; Fro. 33 Hit Many Issues

BOB AUMAN

Discontent among students is probably selfish (though Mr. Currie evidently thinks we have a group of little demi-gods running around
in our dorms), although a few freshmen may not yet be snowed by the volume of fact assimilation. As for
the professor’s salaries, we didn’t know we were so pitifully poor. It’s amazing that we have no faculty committee seeking
federal aid (on their own behalf). But then, $10,000/year would probably exasperate a Davidson professor beyond reparation. Maybe we could
undertake a 20-year plan to raise salaries in line with good conservative, southern policy. We're sure that the trustees will
come up with an alternate plan when academic changes prove unacceptable. Perhaps the next building will be an observatory, or
another ROTC headquarters. Maybe we can improve the liberal aspects of our liberal education by adding some more inspiring required
courses. We have confidence that we can continue to have a strong faculty drawn from Wildcat Club ranks.

Bob Marquis
Bob Pierce
Cary Morrow

ALL YOU EVER DO IS LIE ON TOP SS Liat XGHTISE.. YOU SHC. 3 CAIS 22 S275!

Our leading educators and politicians have outlined the goals which we must meet within the next ten years. Response to
the call for support of education has come from many sectors of American life. The philanthropist, industry, the Church, government,
the P. T. A. — these are some of the groups that are beginning to take steps to bring education
up to the standards it must meet in order for us to continue to face up to the challenges of
our times. Perhaps, as students, we should stop to investigate our role in all of this, for, indeed, if anyone
should be interested in education, it should be us. It has often been said that one of the functions of
education is to provide the country with responsible citizens. Thus, we should accept some responsibility in the present campaign to
improve education in the country. We bear not only individual responsibility, but also corporate responsibility. As individuals, we should try
to display an “authentic concern for excellence.” As a student body, we should do our part in improving the quality
of education here at Davidson.

COUNCIL ROLE,

Last year, there was a great deal of concern about Davidson’s educational standards, but it took the form of bitter
criticism rather than constructive action. The Student Council, through responsible leadership, could play an important role in improving Davidson's educational
standards. Instead of scattered, individual criticisms and suggestions, the student body would provide the college with a comprehensive picture of
student opinion on the subject. Moreover, the diverse student views would be distilled and closely examined in order to come
up with the soundest and most mature student opinion.

FOWLER SAID

Candidate Fowler, in the statement circulated around the campus the night before voting began, had the following to say: “Here
is an era which could be tremendously expanded at Davidson. These are not all innovations necessarily, but are programs which
could be enacted through student-faculty willingness and cooperation: (1) Qualified students should assist in procurement trips to high schools, selling
the student viewpoint of college... (2) Sponsor student forums on pertinent issues to the college, such as teacher evaluation for
the administration, curriculum changes, etc... (3) Sponsor and/or coordinate extra-curricular educational projects: campus forums, films, exchange programs, lectures, etc.”

By activity of this sort, the Student Council would be concerned not only with the drudgery of legislation, but also
with the very innards of an educational institution. As an issue which concerns the country, Davidson College and the student
himself, it is an area which can ill-afford to be overlooked.

FOCUS

The Doubtful Rumors Hint Rusk Will Resign

By ERVIN DUGGAN

Why all the whispers about Dean Rusk? President Kennedy’s Secretary of State — and Davidson’s present most illustrious alumnus —
is a retiring man who seems to shun publicity. He hasn't been making much news — since he is not
given to speech-making or globe-trotting — and his public statements are mild, guarded, almost prosaic. His actions and statements as
a public figure haven't been “good copy.” Could this be why the news magazines print hints of conflict and dissension
in Mr. Rusk’s department, “news” of dissatisfaction on the part of the Secretary? Most often they are stories of conflict
with Adlai Stevenson. In the early days of the Kennedy administration, U. S. NEWS AND WORLD REPORT stated that Stevenson
had shrugged off his new boss as merely “a technician and a bureaucrat.” The story was hotly denied by Stevenson,
but U. S. N. & W. R. stuck to its guns, publishing the next week a full account of Stevenson’s
alleged comment to “a European diplomat.” There have even been statements that Rusk and Kennedy are at odds. HUMAN EVENTS,
a conservative Washington newsletter which seems to dislike Rusk without really knowing why (perhaps it’s a matter of guilt-by-association: Rusk
was once close to Dean Acheson), reported in a recent issue that Rusk is bothered by Kennedy’s practice of having
returning diplomats report to the White House first, and not to their immediate superior at State. In addition, it is
said that Rusk resented bitterly Kennedy's recent surprise visit to a State Department briefing — observing that it was unprecedented;
the Secretary, hinted HUMAN EVENTS, doesn’t like to be checked upon too closely. The writers recall Rusk’s statement at his
Senate confirmation hearing: a flat, “I shall be in charge of the State Department.” They point out that Rusk now
may be irritated at the lack of autonomy he is being given by the President, who wants to guide department
policy personally. Small wonder that U. S. NEWS and HUMAN EVENTS are both betting money that Rusk will be the
first high official to leave the Kennedy administration. Both have predicted it, and HUMAN EVENTS, referring to Rusk as “the
cautious old bureaucrat,” observes that Rusk has not retired from the Rockefeller Foundation: he is on an indefinite leave of
absence granted by the Foundation, ensuring him a place with the Foundation should he quit his Washington duties. The stories
are, of course, undocumented. They may be true, or they may have only a kernel of truth dressed in speculation,
like most gossip. Chances are, when the Secretary begins his traveling to conferences, when he makes a speech or a
dramatic announcement, or when he is at the helm of the State Department in a red-hot crisis, the whispers will
stop and the news will begin: the petty will give way to the momentous. It probably won't be long.

YOU GOT IT WRONG, KID...ALL WRONG...
