PAGE FOUR

Torchlight “Mayhole” Fling
By RICK vonUNWERTI
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Converse, Sweetbriar, Salem, Queens — all will celebrate the arrival of May this weekend. Davidson has had her Mayday —
on Mayday. According to the sign erected next to the hole in the sidewalk leading from Chambers Building to Belk
Dormitory, Monday night marked Davidson’s first annual Mayhole Dance.

DEDICATED HOLE
As is the custom, May was ushered in with beautiful pageantry. The theme was brought out in the dramatic reading
of a selection from Canto IV of Dante's Inferno, while the festive throng gazed into the symbolic Mayhole. Only one
bystander violated the sacred and venerable Hole by unceremoniously falling in. “The Hell can Limbo like me.”

At the height of 28 inches, the first torch sputtered and died. Another was quickly passed as the light was
rapidly waning. At the last minute, Cop Linker's flashlight was rushed to the scene, and the show went on. Torches
flickered as participants writhed and contorted sensuously, edging, each turn, under the equally symbolic Limbo Stick. The ancient fertility rite
took on a Latin American character in the form of a Limbo contest. Still, the dancers strained to inch under
the bar, balanced on their insteps, torsos perfectly horizontal. The festival continued with a brief time out for two exhausted
participants.

Elliott And Daniel Accept New Posts
Patrick F. Elliott, instructor in English, and William W. Daniel, visiting instructor of philosophy, are leaving Davidson at the end
of this year. Elliott, after one year at Davidson, will return to the University of Chicago to complete his dissertation,
a theological analysis of the work of Herman Melville. “I am excited about being able to go back because of
the intellectual, cultural, and social stimulation that Chicago offers,” he said. Elliott may also accept an assistantship there to teach
a course combining religion and art.

Daniel will go to Winthrop College next year to teach in what he regards as a more permanent position. In
returning to Davidson this year, he replaced Professor of Philosophy George L. Abernathy, presently on leave of absence. Daniel will
be in the philosophy department at Winthrop, which will be expanded and altered considerably in the next two years. He
will also teach a philosophy of science course, which he stated Davidson should include in its curriculum.

For Congo Relief
The Davidson College YMCA has decided that the offering for the May 7th vesper service, at which Dr. Paul E.
Sherer will speak, will go toward relief of the famine now sweeping the Congo. The vespers collection will be used
to pay the freight on government surplus food to be sent there through the Presbyterian Board of World Missions. $1
will send 400 pounds of food. The food will be distributed in the particular area around Luluaburg Station, where nine
of the missionaries are Davidson graduates. Mrs. David Miller, wife of one of these men, spoke to the Davidson student
body recently. Presently there are 300,000 people living on starvation diets around the station.

The speaker for vespers, Dr. Sherer, is the professor of preaching at Union Theological Seminary in New York. He is
a graduate of the College of Charleston and took his theological training at Mount Airy Seminary in Philadelphia. Sherer has
served as pastor of a Lutheran church in New York City, was one of the associate editors of The Interpreter’s
Bible, and has been a Lyman Beecher Lecturer at Yale.

Intern Frakes To Aid Vesper Collection In Chaplain’s Office
The Danforth Foundation has chosen Davidson College as one of the 20 institutions to participate next year in its Seminary
Intern Program. The purpose of the program is to give theological students an opportunity to observe first-hand the religious life
on a college campus and to induce more of them to go into college work.

Forrest V. Frakes, a graduate of Stanford University, will assist Dr. George Staples in the chaplain’s office. Frakes is currently
completing his second year at Union Theological Seminary and will return there to complete his work after his year here.
Intern Frakes will spend one fourth of his time helping Dr. Staples in regular college programs. The other three fourths
will be free for him to read, to observe campus activities, and to work with specific groups at the college.

The Danforth Foundation, established by Mr. and Mrs. William H. Danforth of St. Louis, is devoted to the support of
religion in higher education. Senior Henry Shue was recently awarded a Danforth Graduate Fellowship, and he plans to take it
after using his Rhodes Scholarship at Oxford. Dr. Max Polley of the Bible Department is the present Danforth Associate at
Davidson, with the job of administering money for the support of religious discussions and fellowships on the campus.

Student Organists Will Give Recital
The final program on the Organ Recital Series will be presented at 4 p.m. Sunday, in the college church. Participants
will be Lewis Steele, Richard Callaway, Elwood Hartman, and Bill Pruitt.

In recent competitive auditions, Pruitt was selected as the winner from the Davidson Student Guild Group to participate in the
Southeastern Regional Convention of the American Guild of Organists to be held in Charlotte, May 7 through May 10. Callaway
was the runner-up. Pruitt will compete with student organists from North and South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, beginning at 10:30
a.m., Monday, at St. Mark’s Lutheran Church in Charlotte. He is the first Davidson College organ student ever to participate
in this annual contest.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1338 W. Morehead

WELCOME FOR FINE FOOD DURING COMMENCEMENT
COME TO STONESTREET CAFE
REGULAR PLATE LUNCHES
WESTERN STEAKS
CHOPS — SANDWICHES
CLOSED ONLY MONDAY: 6 A.M. ‘til 10:00 P.M.
OPEN 24 HOURS
STONESTREET CAFE
450 N. MOORESVILLE

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1961was accompanied into the hallowed inner circle, and the contest was resumed. Torch after smoking torch was
passed in until the supply was exhausted. The ceremonial chant continued throughout the contest, choruses of “Roll Your Leg Over.”
The singers were encouraged by shouts from the jury.

For Monday night's festive celebrations — the Limbo Contest — the course was set by the haunting chant “Limbo, Limbo,
Limbo like me.” Cries of “Change the record!” or “Cut that damn thing off!” were heard as the contest progressed.
By midnight the bar was down to 24 inches, with three contestants remaining. At 12:05, two of the three were
eliminated, and Porter Halyburton was proclaimed Davidson's first King of the Mayhole amid wild applause. His court consisted of the
two runners-up, Chip Derrick and Bob Hartness.

The DAVIDSONIAN was able to obtain the reaction of only one member of the college administration, Cop Linker. “I think
it’s all right,” he said. “It gave the boys a chance to let off some of the Spring pressure.” “The
Mayhole Dance may be a new tradition,” he continued. “I'll say we've certainly never had anything like it before.”

“COLLEGE SPONSORED”

The DAVIDSONIAN was unable to determine the source or instigators of the demonstration. Cop Linker, however, seems to think it
must have been a “College-sponsored thing. They dug the hole,” he observed.

Union Book Store To Sponsor Sale

The “Knovel Knook” will sponsor a sale of paperbacks, used books, and used records next Monday and Thursday, from 8-11
p.m. and 8:30-11:30 p.m. respectively. The sale, entitled the “Paperback Panorama,” will feature paperbacks at a 10 to 40% discount.
Free drawings for books will occur every fifteen minutes and books and records will be auctioned off the last 45
minutes of each night.

Students or professors wishing to sell any books or records should turn them in at the “Knovel Knook” before each
night's sale. The name of the seller and the price he wishes to receive for the book must be written
on a slip of paper. A book may be auctioned off but at the seller’s risk. A ten-cent handling charge
will be required.

Although it is not definite whether they will accept, several professors have been invited to present short reviews and critiques
of well-known works each night.

(Davidsonian Photo By Wyche)

Marlin Interview
(Continued From Page One)

...ials on the science program and a possible integrated course. Martin discussed his investigation of this type of program. “Institutions
having this type are very limited. I haven't found any who are interested in the same idea we have in
mind,” he said.

GREYHOUND DAVIDSON SUMMER SPECIAL

Wherever you're going—home or holiday trip—take advantage of these low, low Greyhound fares:

Charlotte, N.C.
One Way: $1.75
Round Trip: $3.15

Charleston, W. Va.
One Way: $5.80
Round Trip: $10.45

Norfolk
One Way: $9.80
Round Trip: $17.65

Washington
One Way: $10.65
Round Trip: $19.20

Atlanta
One Way: $7.90
Round Trip: $14.25

New York
One Way: $15.80
Round Trip: $28.45

Nashville
One Way: $11.25
Round Trip: $21.55

ALL Prices Plus Tax

WHITE DRUG CO.
TW 2-2111

Greyhound... leave your cares at school... and leave the driving to us!

DORMAN WILSON works at his job in Industrial Dynamics. The metal stamping shop has been recently established in the old
post office building. (Davidsonian Photo by Wyche)

Industrial Dynamics: Town’s New Industry
By FRANK STAFFORD
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Industrial Dynamics, Inc. started moving machinery into the old post office on March 31 to become the newest industry in
the town of Davidson. The industry is a metal stamping shop, utilizing some four punch presses, milling and casting machines,
and employing five men.

“We do not manufacture a product as such,” explained F. H. Pittenger, manager of the shop. “This is a job
shop. We give quotations to anybody to make any part that lends itself to press application.” At the present time,
the shop is working on an order for the government.

According to Mayor F. L. Jackson, permission has been granted for the shop to remain in the old post office
building for a period not to exceed six months. Jackson explained that the location was “an institutional area” which was
not zoned for industry, but an exception was made because the shop “got hold of a big order.”

Plans have been made to locate the shop permanently on Griffith St., which is between Davidson and highway No. 21.
Mayor Jackson revealed that plans to extend the town limits to include this location are already underway, and town engineers
are readying specifications for water and sewer line bids.

The shop is independent, in that it is not part of a larger chain of shops. Pittenger stated, however, that
it was owned by a Mr. Twyman from Detroit, who “does have other interests in a variety of other things.”

Why did Industrial Dynamics choose Davidson for its location? “One of the main attractions was the college,” Pittenger said. “It
is nationally known, and has become even more so recently.” He also explained, “The Charlotte area, from all forecasts, seems
to be the growing area to get into. There's lots of water, transportation, climate’s good—just all the plus factors that
attract business.”

This is the industry that has been “under cover” for a long while. Everyone knew that an industry was coming,
but nobody (not even Mayor Jackson) knew who it was except one man who negotiated with the company. When asked
about the secrecy, Pittenger agreed that they had “been reluctant to put out much publicity. Until something exists,” he said,
“talk can produce too many different ideas. It is better to wait until the fact exists.”

COPYRIGHT © 1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY. COCA-COLA AND COKE ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS.

In over 100 countries people get that refreshing new feeling with Coke! Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina.
