Che Dauidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Again: Delayed Rush

With an exchange of sighs and cynical comments, fraternity men will fill out another poll next week. This one deals
with an old, and perhaps tired issue, at that: delayed rush. This topic still has an amazing vitality. After last
year's bold stand by the combined fraternity presidents strengthening pledge regulations, the faculty removed the spectre of Sophomore Rush which
haunted fraternity court for months. Now, however, new demands are being heard. The superficialities and insincerities of our early rush
system are under scrutiny by the IFC, and by the fraternity presidents. This time there is no faculty pressure, direct
or indirect. But if enough student opinion can be mustered in favor of some form of delayed rush, a new
vitality might appear around fraternity court.

The evils of the present system are many: fraternities are forced to give an inaccurate picture of themselves in order
to attract freshmen. The importance of fraternities is too often overrated, but brand-new freshmen can't see this. In one hectic
week, fraternities cannot get to know their choice rushees; the Rush Week Veneer is worn by all parties. We favor
rush at the beginning of the second semester. The advantages inherent in such a system have been heard before. Without
a whole year’s worth of disadvantages to hinder acceptance of delayed rush, we are hoping fraternities will see the need
to install a new system.

Many can find disadvantages in second semester rush. The problem of the first semester moratorium is the toughest. Two objections
are always uppermost: what about freshman social life, and what about dirty rush? On the problem of social life: except
for a few blind dates and an occasional ride, what does a fraternity give its pledges during the first semester?
We would like to see more exchange dances, sponsored by the Union and even the Freshman Council. Provision could perhaps
be made for freshmen to keep cars on campus over weekends. Although last year’s plans for enlarged Union facilities were
sometimes derided, we feel that for one semester the freshmen could have a profitable social life independent of fraternity membership.

Martin Tries Again

In student assembly Monday morning, President Martin will resume the practice he started last year: he will hold a question-and-answer
session with students. Many had wondered if the open interview would be continued this year. The delay occurred because in
many ways last year's sessions were unsatisfactory. Although the idea was good, it was almost worked to death. Students ran
out of questions, and President Martin got tired of answering the same questions over and over again.

If students respond to Monday's opportunity, the practice will undoubtedly be continued, perhaps once more this semester, and twice next
semester. And the opportunity is great. It is a chance to air definite controversies, clear up misunderstandings, and put the
administration on the spot about its policies, without getting personalities and pettiness injected. Although President Martin reportedly looks forward to
the sessions with fear and trembling, he is to be commended for consenting to resume the practice. We expect interested
students to question him on such subjects as the dance-weekend pledge, Executive Committee action on the Honor System, and the
immediate goals of the new 15-year plan.

The problem of dirty rush is stickier. On a small campus such as ours, where most fraternity men know each
other, and where most rivalries are taken out on the flickerball field, the bitterness between groups is usually kept to
a minimum. Would jealousies and backbiting break out on Patterson Court? It would take time, perhaps, to overcome the petty
intrigues that characterize our present rush system. But fraternity men would eventually realize that actions speak louder than words, especially
in the “intimate” arena that is Davidson. Each fraternity would be permitted to hold a limited number of open houses
during the semester. In addition, each fraternity would be allowed to invite a select group of rushees to off-campus parties,
perhaps at a fee uniform for all fraternities. Fraternities would not be allowed to feed freshmen in fraternity houses, except
by special permission. But there would be no way to prevent the casual “dropping in to watch TV” on the
part of freshmen. Enforcement of whatever rush regulations are necessary should be left up to the fraternity presidents, the IFC,
and perhaps to the Freshman Council; for dirty rush hurts the rushee as well as the fraternity. No freshman should
be rushed to the point of expecting a bid when the fraternity as a whole is not interested in him.
The fraternities know this, and the Freshman Council might be an effective voice to calculate freshman feeling. Rush dates could
be sent out the last week in the first semester, and only those freshmen with “C” averages would be eligible
for rush. Two, or at most three nights of parties would suffice to “get serious” with select groups of rushees.
Pledging would take place in the middle of the first week of the second semester. An accelerated pledge program could
have pledges ready for initiation by the middle of April, at the latest. Here, then, are our suggestions. The student
body is tired of hearing about delayed rush. But we need a change in our too-hasty, insincere rush program. We
think second semester rush is the best answer.

D. B. S.

Discussion of these issues is important. When they can be talked about in a calm, impersonal manner by the key
figure in the administration, no better opportunity exists for the student body to seek clarification on vital campus matters.

Welcome

As sure as November brings autumn colors, Thanksgiving, and the ROTC turkey shoot, it finds almost 270 freshmen awaiting the
annual parents’ day. Maybe it’s the autumn melancholy the Romantic poets used to write about; maybe it’s just being away
from home for two months for the first time; but we’ve always noticed that there’s hardly a freshman who doesn’t
look forward to having the folks down for Freshman Parents’ Day. Even mature college men are just a little bit
anxious to show off their new environment and to reassure Mom that everything is really well. The campus is still
wearing its sporty fall togs. The freshman dorms are all clean and waiting. Welcome, freshman parents — your boys are
glad to see you.

D. B. S.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Lee Kirby

BUSINESS MANAGER
Don Saunders

Associate Editors
Bill Hagen
Mae Plaxico

Sports Editor
Steve Clark

Assignments Editor
Jeff Wampler

Feature Editor
Bill Ruth

News Editor
Sam Fort

Managing Editors
David Jordan
Gene Adcock

Photographer
Joe McCutchen

Cartoonists
Doug Ackerman
Joe Howell
Dan Adams

Advertising Manager
Ed Willer

Circulation Manager
Clay Atkins

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Parent’s Day ’61 . . . Ackerman

Cafeteria Evaluated; Students Criticize Line

The David Ovens College Union, site of cinema and Slater System, will have a $150,000 portion of the new 15-year
financial drive. What, at present, are its needs, especially in the oft-commented-on cafeteria? Even more, what are its present main
faults, in connection with these needs, as seen by the students? Food quality is no longer the most verbalized of
the present faults. Typical freshman feeling seemed to be represented by the statement of the cafeteria doing a “fairly good
job” even though most of them qualified by saying that they could not, of course, compete with the fraternity boarding
systems that allow more specialization. The main freshman complaint was that the breakfasts are not kept warm.

IMPROVEMENT EFFORTS

George B. Shaw, Manager of the Slater System, stated that an effort to improve the food

A Fickle Fellow, To Say The Least

The most widely used textbook for college economic students is “Economics, An Introductory Analysis,” familiar to Davidson veterans of Economic
21-22. The author is Prof. Paul A. Samuelson of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He also is president of the
American Economics Association. Here are extracts from successive editions:

First and second editions, 1948 and 1951: “If price increases could be held down to, say, less than 5 per
cent per year, such a mild steady inflation need not cause too great concern...”

Third edition, 1955: “If price increases could be held down to, say, less than 3 per cent per year, such
a mild steady inflation need not cause too great concern...”

Fourth edition, 1958: “If price increases could be held down to, say, 2 per cent per year, such a mild
steady inflation need not cause too great concern...”

Fifthedition, 1961: “Price increases that could be held down below 2 per cent per year are one thing. But...” And
on the TV program Meet the Press, March 1961: “... if we can hold things down so that the official
index of prices goes up by no more than 1.5 or 2 per cent, I shall be very content.” Some
people hope the professor will keep on talking and that his book will go through many more editions. Courtesy of
Business News Features is being made. In fact, to supplement this effort, the Union meal ticket now costs $200 per
semester, an increase of $.02 per meal. Lack of adequate facilities was the direct, or indirect, cause of most of
the complaints leveled. It is obvious to even the most casual visitor that the tables are crowded together. This was,
in essence, the mainspring of a freshman’s suggestion of “another main thoroughfare” for student entrance and exit to the Union
than via the eating area.

MEAL LINE CRITICIZED

Students were most sensitive on the factor of waiting in line. Although most acknowledged the trouble of setting up a
temporary line, many criticized the cafeteria for not instituting a second one sooner when needed. The lack of a permanent
second line to speed things up was mentioned especially by students who have had to rush from fourth period classes
to eat, and then to a lab or fifth period class. The granted slowness of the line, which also results
from a want of kitchen equipment, added to the frequency with which athletic teams are allowed to break in front
on weekends, has raised several angry queries as to whom service is due first. It should be mentioned here, though,
that the cafeteria has definite plans to correct many of the above physical inadequacies along with the general enlarging, improving,
and rearranging which will be completed if the funds of the 15-year program are secured.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Students Discuss Chapel Talk, Dance Weekend Saturdays

Durham

Dear Editor:

Upon reading the articles and editorial in last week's DAVIDSONIAN regarding academic scheduling, I was immediately struck by the fact
that no mention was made of the Saturdays during Midwinter's and Spring Frolics Weekends. Having attended Saturday classes during these
dance weekends for the past two years, it has been my feeling that generally students are neither particularly eager nor
well prepared to attend the classes on these days. This causes one to wonder just how much is accomplished in
these classes and if they are really worth continuing under the present circumstances. Among the possible solutions to remedy this
situation might be either to continue the classes and break down and distribute the dance weekends on the Saturdays throughout
the semester or to make the Saturdays of dance weekends holidays. Of course, the present situation does have its advantages;
holding classes on these two Saturdays adds to the total number of class days per semester and at the same
time does not adversely affect the students or professors.

Rodger Durham

Edgar

Dear Editor:

According to Professor Goodykoontz we do not have to make a choice between being dead or red. Rather, the choice
is between life and death. I agree with the professor in that the first choice, “red or dead,” need not
be made. There is no reason why we should be red or dead. I also value my life, but I
believe that the way to save that life is to be found in some positive Goldwater-type vim, vigor, and vitality
in our foreign policy, rather than giving all up for lost and accepting defeat at the outset. If we acquiesce,
we will surely all be red, and most probably a lot of us will be dead too (if not as
a result of the bomb, then by execution for crimes against the state). We must not let the crashing of
bombs drive us into a state of panic. We must not spend our time trying to find a scapegoat in
a poor little ol’ Senator from Arizona. Let's choose to save our skins by calling the big Russian bluff with
our own nuclear strength, for which Mr. K has due respect. Let's choose life; life that affords us something that
many overlook in these trying days — liberty.

Al Edgar

Khrushchev Given Reason To Regret Parthenon Error

BY COSTAS STATHOS

Who could ever imagine that the Parthenon could fight Communism? And yet, it did! We usually say that the classical
world lies far back in the past, and for all of us it is something quite inanimate. This picture, however,
is bound to turn upside down if we consider the following facts: August 1961: In a feverish speech in Moscow
Premier Khrushchev declares: “... we will destroy all Greece and the Parthenon too if... etc.” This is a historical phrase.
It was just a threat, no doubt. But it proved to be quite a heavy blow on the face of
the orator himself. How? October 29, 1961: Elections in Greece. The Free Popular vote—a thing that sounds Greek to Mr.
Khrushchev—pushed the National Radical Union (right wing) ahead. Then followed the Union of the Center (a coalition of the “prodigal
sons” of politics, who are destined—who knows by what mysterious forces—to play the role of a foil) and lastly the
Pan-Democratic Agrarian Front (actually the Communist party under a mask). It was reported that the left wing party lost a
great deal of its power. The carrier of Kremlin’s principles—if they may be called so—the peace-loving party—that proved its lust
for peace in the years after the German occupation by throat cutting—lost its prestige. This happened chiefly because Khrushchev made
that pitiful mistake. God bless him! Some simple pieces of white marble to have such influence on political affairs; unbelievable!
This at first seems illogical. But the key is that the Parthenon does not represent merely an idea. It is
an integral part of Greek life. It would not seem so far-fetched if we say that Greeks cannot do without
the Parthenon just as Americans cannot do without... the dollar. Now, how can we compromise these two things, the Parthenon
and the Dollar. The Spirit and the Matter? It is because the Parthenon for the Greeks is at the same
time a dollar-making machine. Just think of the increasingly rising touristic movement—mainly based on the object of Mr. Khrushchev's menace—which
lately tends to overcast all other sources of national income. So the threat was double. But his expectations went with
the wind. Let us hope that he will draw a useful lesson out of it and that he will hold
his tongue from now on. O.K. take it easy Mr. Khrushchev! Drink your vodka and let us alone!

Birchophrenia, New Psychosis?

BY WYCHE FOWLER

Flipping through my psychology textbook, I ran across the following conversation between a paranoid schizophrenic and his doctor:

Dr.: What’s your name?
Pt.: Who are you?
Dr.: I'm a doctor. Who are you?
Pt.: I can’t tell you who I am.
Dr.: Why can’t you tell me?
Pt.: You wouldn’t believe me.
Dr.: What are you doing here?
Pt.: Well, I've been sent here to thwart the Russians. I'm the only one in the world who knows how
to deal with them. They got their spies all around here though to get me, but I'm smarter than any
of them.
Dr.: What are you going to do to thwart the Russians?
Pt.: I'm organizing.
Dr.: Whom are you going to organize?
Pt.: Everybody. I'm the only man in the world who can do that, but they’re trying to get me. But
I'm going to use my atomic bomb media to blow them up.
Dr.: Say who are you?
Pt.: I'm a doctor here.
Dr.: You don’t look like a doctor. You look like a Russian to me.
Dr.: How can you tell a Russian from one of your agents?
Pt.: I read eyes. I get all my signs from eyes. I look into your eyes and get all my
signs from them.
Dr.: Do you sometimes hear voices telling you one is a Russian?
Pt.: No, I just look into eyes. I got a mirror here to look into my own eyes. I know
everything that’s going on. I can tell by the color, by the way it’s shaped.
Dr.: Did you have any trouble with people before you came here?
Pt.: Well, only the Russians. They were trying to surround me in my neighborhood. One day they tried to drop
a bomb on me from the fire escape.
Dr.: How could you tell it was a bomb?
Pt.: I just knew.

Maybe “Birchophrenia” will be the next problem to be tackled by the nation’s psychiatrists.
