FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

We're On Our Way

If Lefty Driesell is strutting around the campus this week with an ear-to-ear grin similar to one a proud new
father might wear, he has plenty of reasons. Saturday, Fred Hetzel, a 6-8 high school basketball All-American from Washington, D.C.,
accepted a full grant-in-aid to attend Davidson.

“This will get our basketball wheel rolling,” proclaimed Assistant Coach Joe Hunt, referring to Hetzel’s decision. Hunt, who had been
highly instrumental in Driesell’s recruiting program that promises to make Davidson College a basketball powerhouse in the very near future,
cannot say enough about Hetzel. “He’s the finest high school ball player I saw this past winter,” declares Hunt, “and
that includes players in the majority of the eastern states — Kentucky, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina, and a
few others.”

“He'll be the core of a tremendous basketball team here,” says the freshman mentor, who is anxiously awaiting the chance
to handle next year’s frosh team, which should be the greatest in the history of the school.

Hetzel chose Davidson over 80 colleges that had given him scholarship offers. His outstanding record explains his many offers. He
was All-Metropolitan for three years in Washington, and made three high school All-American teams this past season. He has never
averaged below 20 points a game in his career, during which he amassed 1210 points for Landon prep school.

But Driesell isn’t primarily interested in Hetzel as a scorer. “We're going to have plenty of other boys that can
score,” says the young coach. “Hetzel’s the big man we need; he can get the ball for us.”

Meanwhile, Driesell continues arranging his schedule for next season. Newcomers to the list include Duke, George Washington, and Alabama. Catawba,
Pfeiffer, and VPI are being dropped.

Martin Elected Captain

D. G. Martin has been elected Captain of next year’s basketball team by his teammates. Martin, a rising senior, played
in spots this past season, and is noted for his hustle and rebounding ability. His best performance came in the
second Furman game at Greenville, S.C., when he scored 12 points, grabbed seven rebounds, and put a tight defensive job
on the Paladin’s Gerald Glur. Coach Driesell commented, “I think the boys made a real good choice in D. G.
He has an excellent attitude, tremendous desire and hustle, and will be a good team leader.”

Eberhart Gutted It Out

Last Saturday the track team ran away with the Davidson Relays with 76 points, followed by Lenoir Rhyne’s 23. Many
Wildcats were truly outstanding that afternoon—Linton Wray pole vaulted 12 feet, 1 inch; Hugh Murray broad jumped 21 feet, 10½
inches; and John Chiles hopped-skipped-and jumped 43 feet, 6½ inches. But we feel the greatest performance of all was put
on by Dick Eberhart, a member of the fleet 440-yard relay team. It seems that Eberhart, who was spiked on
the heel as he took the baton from a teammate, ran his 110-yard leg with a six-stitch gash in his
foot. He could have quit as soon as he was stepped on, and no one would have said a thing.
But he didn't, he ran his part, and Davidson won.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE

BY JOHN SPRATT Davidsonian Sports Writer

The ’Cat tennis team headed south to Charleston in the Southern Conference tournament at The Citadel, yesterday, today, and tomorrow.
Although the local netmen claim a record that can boast only four wins, Coach Semi Mintz is hardly skeptical. To
the contrary, confident would be a much better adjective for the youthful Davidson mentor.

CITADEL FAVORED

In so far as records go, Mintz will concede the favorite position to The Citadel. But for George Washington, defending
conference champ, he predicts only a fourth. And Davidson, in Mintz’s opinion, should finish better than last year’s third. With
no qualms whatsoever, Mintz prognosticates definite victories in the number three doubles match and the number six singles match. In
number one doubles and number five singles, he calculates the odds at “over a fifty-fifty chance.”

“Of course a lot will be determined by the drawing after we get down there,” adds Mintz. “We were overscheduled
this year,” continues Mintz. “We've got a better team than our record would indicate.”

ORR NUMBER ONE

Top-seeded Doug Orr will lead the ‘Cat netmen with Bobby Austell in the number two position and Finley Lee in
the number three position. Nick Cooper, Bobby Snead, and Andy Sherrill complete the Wildcat tournament roster in the fourth, fifth,
and sixth slots respectively. Andy Sherrill and Nick Cooper go into the tournament playing the best tennis in Mintz’s opinion.
Sherrill and Austell have compiled the best regular season records. According to Mintz, “There’s a rumor that a bunch of
students are going to The Citadel to the tournament.”

Showalter Elected IMAC President; Fraser New Veep

Graham Showalter was elected president of next year’s Intramural Athletic Council at Wednesday night's meeting. Other new officers are: Keith
Fraser, vice-president; and John Boylin, secretary. Showalter, who succeeds Mike Van Doeren, is a rising senior, and is a member
of Sigma Chi. Fraser, a rising junior, belongs to Pi Kappa Alpha, while Boylin is a rising junior and a
member of Pi Kappa Phi.

Other Council representatives for 1961-62 are as follows: ATO — Paul Duvall; Beta — Steve Clark; KA — John Sharpe;
Kappa Sig — Bob Hord; Independent — Al Mullen; Phi Delt — Buddy Rives; Phi Gam — Mims Rogers; SAE
— Tony McNay; Sig Ep — Forrest Roles; and Sigma Nu — Buddy Brauch.

In addition, the Council completed its work on revising the rules and regulations of I-F sports. One of the big
rule changes concerning eligibility is that a freshman who earns a numeral in a sport will be eligible for that
sport in the I-F league the following year, if he decides not to go out for the varsity.I think it’s
tremendous.” “And that's quotable,” he concludes.

MINTZ OPTIMISTIC

DOUG ORR (left) and FINLEY LEE, co-captains of this year’s tennis team, are leading the team at the Southern Conference
tournament in Charleston, S.C., this weekend.

RIDING 3 GAME STREAK

Their 8-13-1 overall mark. Coach Tom Stevens’ crew is currently riding a three-game winning streak and has triumphed five times
in the last seven games. Richmond is “a real good team” according to Stevens. The Spiders are currently leading the
conference, due mainly to Charlie Revere, an All-Conference pitcher a year ago. At the plate, the Spiders are paced by
outfielders Tom Booker and Bob Stewart. Against Richmond, Stevens plans to start Tommy Hamilton on the mound. Hamilton now has
a 5-5 record. George Washington should be an easier foe for the 'Cats. The Colonials, led mainly by sophomores, are
strong in pitching and in the field, but don’t have many good hitters. All-Conference Dennis Hill, a stumpy southpaw, will
probably hurl against the locals.

Last Saturday, the baseballers met VMI in a doubleheader at Lexington, Va. Hamilton hurled a beautiful two-hitter in the first
game, but Davidson lost, 4-1. In the nightcap, Tommy Harris stymied the Keydets on six hits and got credit for
the 5-1 Davidson victory. This past Tuesday afternoon the squad played The Citadel in the first of a two-day series.
It proved to be a long afternoon for both sides, as Davidson prevailed in a three and a half hour
marathon, 20-19. Citadel jumped off to a 9-0 lead after two innings, but the ‘Cats came right back in the
third, when they knocked All-Conference Dick Almes out of the box in an eight-run merry-go-round. Harris thumped a homer and
a double during the inning. In the bottom of the ninth, Citadel once again had a comfortable lead, 19-13. But
the never-say-die Davidsonians tripped seven runs across the plate as The Citadel machine fell apart. “It was a wild and
woolly marathon!” exclaimed Stevens.

Meanwhile, I-F softball and tennis action continued. In Monday’s softball action, the Sigma Nus forfeited to the Kappa Sigs, and
the Sigma Chis downed the Betas, 16-12. All other games were rained out. Wednesday, the Phi Delts knocked the KA’s
from the unbeaten ranks, 24-20; the SAE’s clobbered the Betas, 20-8.

WE OFFER
1. Two Week Paid training
2. Excellent salary
3. Car Furnished (if qualified)
4. Excellent working conditions
5. Continue part-time next fall

$1000.00 CASH SCHOLARSHIPS PLUS 2 MGA SPORTS CAR

CALL MR. FORD
Columbia AL 4-4126
Charlotte 376-6596

10-12 Week Summer Employment
1. Be above average in appearance, intelligence, aggressiveness
2. Possess an open mind and willingness to follow instructions
3. Have a driver’s license
4. Desire above average earnings

10 DAY PAID TRIPS TO LONDON, ENGLAND
SALARY $56.50 to $96.50 PER WEEK (depending on qualifications)
WORK IN OFFICE OF YOUR CHOICE
Gastonia Raleigh

In Charlotte, It’s THE STARLIGHT ROOM
For Fine Food
Steaks And Lobsters Are The Chef's Specialty
Entertainment
2115 N. Tryon
Call ED 3-7144 For Reservations

FORGET, HELL!
The original “FORGET, HELL!” Rebel Print in Full Color with handy mail to your Damnyankee friends. Get your copy at
the STUD today! Only $1 Each With This Ad ONLY $.75

Red Hot Diamond Men Visit Richmond, GW

This afternoon the Davidson baseball team left for a weekend tour and games with Richmond tomorrow, and George Washington on
Monday. Both are conference games, and the 'Cats get a chance to better their 5-6 conference record as well as
their 8-13-1 overall mark. Coach Tom Stevens’ crew is currently riding a three-game winning streak and has triumphed five times
in the last seven games. Richmond is “a real good team” according to Stevens. The Spiders are currently leading the
conference, due mainly to Charlie Revere, an All-Conference pitcher a year ago. At the plate, the Spiders are paced by
outfielders Tom Booker and Bob Stewart. Against Richmond, Stevens plans to start Tommy Hamilton on the mound. Hamilton now has
a 5-5 record. George Washington should be an easier foe for the 'Cats. The Colonials, led mainly by sophomores, are
strong in pitching and in the field, but don’t have many good hitters. All-Conference Dennis Hill, a stumpy southpaw, will
probably hurl against the locals.

Last Saturday, the baseballers met VMI in a doubleheader at Lexington, Va. Hamilton hurled a beautiful two-hitter in the first
game, but Davidson lost, 4-1. In the nightcap, Tommy Harris stymied the Keydets on six hits and got credit for
the 5-1 Davidson victory. This past Tuesday afternoon the squad played The Citadel in the first of a two-day series.
It proved to be a long afternoon for both sides, as Davidson prevailed in a three and a half hour
marathon, 20-19. Citadel jumped off to a 9-0 lead after two innings, but the ‘Cats came right back in the
third, when they knocked All-Conference Dick Almes out of the box in an eight-run merry-go-round. Harris thumped a homer and
a double during the inning. In the bottom of the ninth, Citadel once again had a comfortable lead, 19-13. But
the never-say-die Davidsonians tripped seven runs across the plate as The Citadel machine fell apart. “It was a wild and
woolly marathon!” exclaimed Stevens. Hamilton got the win since he came to relieve in the eighth inning when the ‘Cats
trailed. Wednesday afternoon, the locals once again knocked off the Bulldogs, 7-2. Giving up just seven hits, Harris picked up
his second victory. The Harry Smith-Tommy Tuttle double-play combination clicked four times, and Tuttle provided the hitting punch with a
triple, and two singles in five trips to the plate. Other stick men were Ed Hines (2 for 3), Harry
Cline (2 for 4), and Russ Cotton (2 for 5). “Without a doubt, it was our best game,” declared Stevens
proudly.

Golfers Hit Loop Tourney Host Citadel Favored In Charleston Affair

Golfers Put Title On Line Tuesday

The Davidson College golf team leaves Monday for Richmond, Va., and the Southern Conference golf tournament, of which they are
defending champions. The season's climax is being held at the Richmond Country Club on Tuesday and Wednesday, May 9-10. The
team had their final warm-up for the tournament as they matched N.C. State in Charlotte. The Wolfpack defeated the Wildcats
in an earlier match in Raleigh. Coach Tom Scott's men dropped the sixth of ten matches this season to Wake
Forest, 19-8. No ‘Cat won his match, but Stanley and Keiter tied their men.

Only returnee from last year’s champs is Verner Stanley, who was medalist at last year’s tournament (75-73-148), and who has
proved his golf capabilities again this year. Besides Stanley, other outstanding performers in last year’s tournament who will be in
action next week are Dick Horne of The Citadel, Ed Prentice of Furman, Barclay Andrews of VPI, and Jim Flippen
of VPI.

This afternoon, the linksters are in action against Wake Forest. Picking up the slack of last year's graduates have been
seniors John Crute, John Keiter, Sanders Dallas, Claude Finney, and Jim Smith, and sophomores Frank McPhillips and Haywood Evans.

First Baseman TOMMY HARRIS (center) stretches for a low throw as Citadel runner nears base. Harris helped bat and pitch
Davidson to two victories over the Bulldogs this week, 20-19 and 7-2.

WON'T FALL DOWN UNLESS YOU DO!!!

The Adler Shape-Up is guaranteed not to fall down or your money back! It's the first cotton crew sock that
is. In men's sizes, white 79¢, eight great Ivy colors, 89¢ a pair. At fine stores.

ADLER SHAPE UP

THE SHAPE-UP, BY ADLER, AVAILABLE IN WHITE AND COLORS AT Rush Wilson Ltd.
