FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1961 PAGE THREE By JOHN SPRATT Davidsonian Sports Writer The ’Cat tracksters make their final appearance of the year today and tomorrow in their annual Southern Conference Meet. The highly touted Davidson Mile Relay team, from left to right, ED KIZER, JOHN SHARP, ROGER BEEBE, and JOHN HARRIS, loosen up for the Southern Conference Meet being held this weekend in Norfolk, Va. (Davidsonian Photo by Gene Wells.)

FURMAN FAVORED Cindermen Sprint For Trophy In Conference Meet At Norfolk

The season's climax is being staged on neutral grounds, Norfolk, Virginia's Foreman Field, in an attempt to attract larger crowds. All events will be under lights with trials Friday night and finals Saturday night. Coach Roger Thrift, finishing his one-season fill-in stint for Coach Heath Whittle, takes to Norfolk a thirteen-man team that has compiled three outdoor victories against one heartbreaking loss to VPI, 71-69. He has high hopes for dashmen Ed Kizer and Bob Cordle, and rightful confidence in the mile relay foursome — John Harris, Kizer, Roger Beebe, and John Sharpe. 

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

Although Thrift is not overly excited about 'Cat prospects for winning the conference meet, he believes they should cop a place in the broad jump, John Childs in the hop-skip-and-jump, and Keith Fraser in the high jump. “But as far as winning goes,” injects Thrift, “it’s going to be tough. How we'll do, I don’t know; it’s almost impossible to say.” Thrift lists Furman, The Citadel, and VMI as likely victors, marking Furman for the best odds. However, illustrating the tissue-thin difference between the top contenders, he notes that it’s anyone’s game.

SAE's and Delts Vie For I-F Crown

AN EXCITING YEAR

Going into the week of exams, either the SAE’s or Phi Delts are sure to be winners of the intramural crown. Hoping to extend a four-game winning streak, the Davidson baseball team collides with a powerful Wake Forest nine at 7:30 tonight on the Mooresville High diamond. The Deacons hold the aces on a determined Wildcat squad. They are currently riding third place in the Atlantic Coast Conference with a 9-4 loop record, and an overall 22-7 mark. Their assault includes such standouts as hurlers Bob Plemmons, Jerry Galehouse, and Bob Muller; outfielders Jay Franklin and Jerry Goodman, and first baseman Roger Coon. Coon recently smashed the conference RBI record when he knocked in his 36th run.

Last season the ‘Cats bowed to the Deacs, 26-7, but better pitching and better balance have made Coach Tom Stevens’ crew a real threat, and the likelihood of another lop-sided game is improbable. 

WAKE FOREST IN MOORESVILLE By MEL McKENZIE Davidsonian Sports Writer

On last weekend's tour, Saturday's game with conference leader Richmond was rained out, but Monday's game with George Washington was played as Davidson triumphed, 4-2. Stevens sent Hamilton, Harris, and Showalter to the mound, with Showalter getting the win. Ed Hines (3 for 4), Harris, and Jerry Shelton paced the hitting attack.

Put Win Streak In Tonight’s Finale

The ‘Cats now stand 6-4 in the conference and 9-13-1 overall. Stevens cites as reasons for the late season lunge, “Ever since Georgia Southern the boys have really played as a team. Hitting and defense have improved tremendously.” Hamilton and Harris have been mainstays on the mound, while Harry Cline, Russ Cotton, and Harris have added punch at the plate. Cline leads the regular hitters at .341, and Shelton has rapped out .346 in less playing time. Harris leads in RBI's with 16.

Golf Scores Soar; VPI Captures Title

VPI succeeded Davidson as Southern Conference golf king Tuesday and Wednesday at Richmond, Va. After a bad first day performance, Davidson managed to finish fifth. Verner Stanley paced the Wildcats with a 79-72—151, and closed out a brilliant golf career at Davidson. However, Stanley failed to retain his position as conference medalist, which went to Bob Haney of George Washington.

“Easy-Going” Snead Nets Two First Places By JERRY TRAMMEL Davidsonian Sports Writer

This week’s “Wildcat of the Week” is referred to by many as “easy-going.” Regardless of how “easy-going” Junior Bobby Snead may be, Bobby Snead was talented enough to take top honors in the number five slot at the Southern Conference tournament last weekend. In order to capture his division, Snead had to fight through three rounds of competition. In the first match, he easily eliminated the Richmond entry. The second round was a little tougher. Facing Remy Aronoff of William & Mary, Snead dropped the first set, 5-7; fought back from a 2-5 deficit in the second set to win, 8-6; and finished strong in the third set, 6-0. Snead upset his division's defending champion, Thurmond Bishop of The Citadel; in straight sets, 9-7 and 6-2, for the championship. In addition to his singles’ championship, the six-foot junior from Richmond, Va., joined with Bobby Austell and captured first place in the third division of doubles competition.

PRAISES MINTZ

Snead has nothing but praise for Semi Mintz and his coaching efforts this year. Says Snead, “Semi deserves a tremendous amount of credit for our showing in the tournament.”Snead is pre-med and plans to study medicine at The Medical College of Virginia.

SUMMER EMPLOYMENT — COLLEGE STUDENTS
Largest Company In Its Field Has Summer Employment For YOU. If Qualified, Your EARNINGS WILL BE IN EXCESS OF $125.00 WEEKLY.

When the last lap of the mile relay is run tomorrow on Norfolk's Foreman Field, the athletic year 1960-61 will be Davidson College history. It’s been an exciting year to say the least. According to won-lost records, it hasn’t been a successful year for old DC. And yet, hasn’t it? We believe it has. We tried to pin-point our reasons for saying this and came up with four characteristics of this year’s action in sports — upsets, strong finishes, close games, and a rise in school spirit.

One might call 1960-61 the year of the upset. If one had witnessed only the VPI football game, the Wake Forest basketball game, and the second baseball game with The Citadel, he’d call you a nut when you informed him that none of the teams in the three major sports won more games than they lost. On the other hand, if a guy saw only the Wofford football game, the Catawba basketball game, and the West Virginia baseball game, he’d think you were crazy when you told him the three major teams won quite a few ball games.

Ironically, all three major athletic teams improved as each season progressed, and all finished strong. The gridders won two of their last three encounters; the cagers swept five of their last nine; and the baseballers (with one game left to play) have triumphed in six of their last eight contests.

It was a good year for the spectator. Many close games, some decided in the last few seconds of play, kept fans on the edge of their seats all year. The football team’s heartbreaking loss to Furman, 22-21, held Wildcat rooters spellbound for four quarters. The Citadel’s 74-73 squeak over the Cat hoopsters in Johnston Gym was another heart-stopper. And the baseball team’s amazing 20-19 come-from-behind victory over The Citadel thrilled the few remaining fans who stayed for the three-hour marathon.

As a result of these other characteristics, the year 1960-61 saw a rise in school spirit at Davidson. The pep band, the welcome extended by students and faculty to the football team when it returned from VPI, the full and noisy gym on several occasions, and the frequent razzing of visiting baseball teams are just a few earmarks indicating more interest in athletics.

As usual, the minor sports fared better than the major ones. Soccer, probably the most outstanding of the minors, attracted much attention after a 3-2 victory over tough Duke. Cross-country, swimming, track, and tennis completed good seasons, while wrestling and golf didn't fare as well as expected.

An old saying goes: “You win a few, you lose a few, and some of 'em are rained out.” And that’s what makes up the wonderful world of sports. The desires to take a chance, to do something thrilling, to be active, to taste victory — these are healthy emotions everyone should have. They are as much a part of the American way of life as the desires for freedom, achievement, knowledge, and economical well-being.

Applicants Must Be:
Neat in Appearance
Aggressive and Ambitious

Students selected will be eligible on a local level for:
A) 30 CASH SCHOLARSHIPS
B) One of many JET-PLANE TRIPS AROUND THE WORLD
C) One of several AUSTIN-HEALEY SPORTS CARS.
— WIN ONE OR ALL —

For Interview Appointments, PHONE: 333-7906, CHARLOTTE 9 A.M. — 3 P.M. ASK FOR MR. FELDMAN

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

Other softball contenders are the Phi Gams (8-2) and the Kappa Sigs (6-2). The IMAC urges every team to get its make-up games played as soon as possible, and that the winner of every game be posted on the sheet at the equipment check-out room in the gym.

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

COLLEGE MEN
10-12 Week Summer Employment

YOU MUST
Be above average in appearance, intelligence, aggressiveness.
Possess an open mind and willing to follow instructions.
Have a driver’s license.
Desire above average earnings.

WE OFFER
1. Two Week Paid training
2. Excellent salary
3. Car Furnished (if qualified)
4. Excellent working conditions
5. Continue part-time next fall

$1000.00 CASH SCHOLARSHIPS
10 DAY PAID TRIP TO LONDON, ENGLAND
1 MGA SPORTS CAR
SALARY $56.50 to $96.50 PER WEEK (Depending on qualifications)

WORK IN OFFICE OF YOUR CHOICE

Charlotte 376-6596
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina