Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A Shift Of Emphasis

Hugh Cannon, '53, ex-Rhodes Scholar, raised a little stink here last Tuesday. The stink had some people reaching for deodorant that couldn't quite clear the smell away. In his calm, concise, penetrating manner, Cannon said that Davidson education is a little sick, and to be perfectly frank about it, it’s going to take a good bit of money to make it well.

Cannon summed up what THE DAVIDSONIAN said a month ago about poor professors, but he added the reason: Davidson cannot bid high enough in the open market. He pointed out that Davidson likes to compare herself with the likes of Williams, Amherst, Oberlin, and Swarthmore — but Davidson cannot compare with these schools in the amount she pays her faculty.

It is true that faculty pay here has increased about 25 percent in the last four years. It is also true that in this area Davidson ranks close to the best liberal arts colleges in the South. But how many really outstanding liberal arts schools are there in the South? And how many mediocre schools are there to pull down the average? We've not heard Davidson officials lately say that they hope we can be as good as Elon, Catawba, or Lenoir Rhyne.

For really fine teachers, Davidson must compete not only with the “best liberal arts colleges in the South,” but with the state-supported schools and a few of the best liberal arts schools in the East. It’s a rough game and we often end up near the bottom of the pile. Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston admitted to Hugh Cannon, “If I could offer $1000 more, it would help.”

The need applies not only to securing the best men but to getting more men. The one-man department is still a nemesis to liberal arts education. If we admit the need for more money for teachers, we must face the problem of where to get it. Cannon suggested that we had put too much into buildings. The trouble is, the buildings are there — it’s too late to tear them down and we can’t sell them. But Cannon had a point. Davidson has perhaps put too much emphasis on the physical plant.

We do not accuse the administration of sloughing off in the area of hiring good teachers just because there has been a concentrated building program in progress. We do feel, however, that it is high time to shift the emphasis. It is time to put the teaching end of education in the forefront. No more buildings are being planned at present — we don’t need any more. But we do need better teachers and more teachers.

On Campus Reaction

An election season always invites journalistic comments and observations. Failing either to rise above the situation or to subdue our journalistic instincts, we venture into the dangerous ground of political commentary.

Tradition calls for a year of reaction! Imaginative Dan LaFar gave way to well-intentioned Ross Smyth, hard-working John Kuykendall stepped out in favor of ineffectual Dee Green, and productive Henry Shue hands the reins to — well, that’s the question.

By anyone’s standards, this has been a successful year for the Student Council. It has been a year of progress and change, but not of rebellious discontent. It has been a quiet year, with the responsibilities of leadership in capable student hands. We want some more of the same.

We do not contend that change is inherently good. However, we do maintain that one should follow the path of constant self-examination with an eye toward possible improvement. This year’s Student Council serves as an excellent case in point. Through a mature approach of thorough discussion and investigation, the Council has produced and approved several important and sound proposals. Through continuous self-examination, the Council was even prompted to reverse its action on three major issues, displaying the mature trait of recognizing its own mistakes and doing something about them.

Nor do we believe that the vigorous crusader necessarily holds the key to success. But we do feel that vigorous leadership is essential for a successful and productive student government. We hope that the candidates — not just in the race for student body president, but in all the elections — will approach all issues with maturity, imagination, and vigor. As with years past, the coming year is full of many possibilities. We only need the leaders to point these possibilities out to us. And, as we hope for the best from the candidates, we likewise hope for the most thorough and most mature judgment of the student body in its selection of officers for the coming year.

T. B.C.

A Gamble With The Council

Next Thursday the Student Body will vote on the proposed revision of the Student-Body Constitution. A two-thirds vote is necessary to pass the proposed constitution. We favor its passage.

Article X is the key to the effectiveness of the revised constitution. It reads as follows: “The Student Council may adopt by a two-thirds vote of the entire council such by-laws as shall not be in conflict with this constitution.” Under the present constitution, it is necessary to obtain a two-thirds affirmative vote by the student body to adopt a new by-law. This rule weakens the power of the Student Council and unnecessarily delays, even sometimes defeats, constructive legislation.

We realize that Article X gives the Student Council as much power to pass bad legislation as good legislation. But Student Council members are better informed about the merits of a proposed by-law and can vote more intelligently than the average Davidson student. We are willing to take the chance that the Student Council will pass constructive legislation.

The Student Council has removed many of the details of the present constitution and has made the proposed constitution more flexible. The body of the constitution has been shortened and the articles governing the Freshman Advisor and the Freshman Court have been placed in the by-laws. These articles will be under direct control of the council and can now be immediately changed by the council if they prove undesirable.

R.L. M. B.

Millner

Charlie Rowe

Feature Editor

Leonard Richardson

Photographers

Jerry Abernathy

Marty Lafferty

Advertising Manager

Olin Nisbet

Circulation Manager

Jimmy Platt

Assistant Bus. Manager

Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Another Five Local Reaction Year? . . . By Millner

“Won't Serve Them”

By RICK von UNWERTH

Davidsonian Staff Writer

Five businesses in Davidson which are often patronized by students have stated to the question: “What will you do if these Negro students ask you for service?” replies ranged from “I'll ask them to leave” and “I'll close that door and go home,” to “Anybody that feels with them is a damn fool!” All were not this vehement; some merely said, “I hope they don’t try,” “No comment,” or “I'll cross that bridge when I come to it.” But the implication was this: For the most part, the Congolese students will be treated exactly the same as the Negro citizens of the town.

FOUR-YEAR STUDENTS

President D. G. Martin announced that the Congolese “will be regular four-year students seeking a degree.” He stated that the primary objective in accepting students from the Congo is to “train leaders to return to the people of Africa.” Concerning the treatment of the Negroes when they come to Davidson, President Martin said, “I would hope that the student body would feel the same way as the administration.” In the event of any problems, he felt that if necessary the college would take steps to make their stay trouble-free.”

TOWN INTERVIEWS

The DAVIDSONIAN questioned several proprietors of local business establishments on their attitudes toward the admission of these Negroes to Davidson.

Hattie Morgan: said, “I'll let them come in on the other side (the grocery store) just like the others. But,” she stated emphatically, “rather than have them in here, I'll turn this side into a private club, admitting white ‘members’ only. If I opened it up to them (Negro students) I'd have to open it to the others.”

BAD EFFECT

Hugo Sapp, owner of the College Cut-Rate Drug, said that “The effect on the local Negroes will be bad,” and he referred to the integrated conference held at Davidson four summers ago, when “both the Negroes and whites of the town disliked seeing Negroes and whites having

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

Careless Remark Could Do Damage

Dear Editor:

While leaving the recent smash hit at the College Union “Intruder in the Dust,” I overheard the following remark: “I guess this means we all gotta go join the (censored) Nigger picket lines!” I could not help thinking at the time about what effect this careless remark about a movie not concerned with an issue more provocative than legal justice would have had if it had chanced to fall upon the ripe ears of one of our prospective Congolese students. I propose that we all take a good look at ourselves and seeIf we are prepared to accept the responsible challenge of associating with Congolese students. Remember, admitting students from an impressionable country whose people already are torn by doubts about Western feeling due to slanderous Russian propaganda concerning Lumumba’s recent murder is a great deal more dangerous than mere integration with U.S. Negroes would have been. The Congo is a country ruled by Negroes, and its people will scarcely be able to tolerate or even understand the humiliation of being kept out of eating places and insulted by remarks perhaps not even intended to be derogatory. There would not be this danger with “local” Negroes whose pride has been “conditioned” so to speak, but with Congolese students here, it is impossible to evaluate the damage done to American-Congolese relations by one careless comment. Their refusal to serve any Negro Congolese students who come to Davidson. These tradespeople stated unequivocally this week that they “won’t serve them.” blanket parties together and that sort of thing. “The Negroes around here won't have anything to do with them,” he added.

WON’T SEAT ‘EM
Mrs. Sapp said, “Most of the Negroes are very nice and we serve them over the counter and let them move out. But I don't care if they're from Timbuktu, we won't seat them.” She felt that “Anyone who does is asking for trouble. If you let one in, you'll have to let them all.” She explained “I have a lot of good friends in this town that are Negroes, and there are many white people here who would help them in any way possible. But most Negroes aren't ready for integration, and there’s no use in lowering our standards.”

BARBERS’ POLICY
The policy of both of Davidson's barber shops at present is not to serve any Negroes. Hood Norton, owner of one of these shops, said “Some of those boys (Negro students) at that conference tried to get in, but we wouldn’t serve them. The same thing will happen next year. I'll have to ask them to go get their hair cut in Charlotte or somewhere.” Norton asked, “If they bring in foreign students, why can’t they admit locally educated colored people?” He again stated that his shop would continue its present policy. Ralph Johnson, the owner of Johnson’s Barber Shop, believes that “the issue (integration) has grown out of proper proportion. I don’t think it should be that much of a problem.” Asked about what he would do if one of the Congolese students comes in for a haircut Johnson replied, “I would like to cooperate with the college, but I'll cross that bridge when I come to it.”

MOVE ON OUT
Mary Potts at the M&M Soda Shop said “The fact that they are Congolese wouldn't make any difference. I'll serve them at the counter, just as I do the other now. After they've been served they can move on out, the same as the others. “If I seated them, it would start others doing the same thing.” Her partner, Murray Fleming, expressed the same feeling.

Janitor Remembers Body-Snatching Past
By ERVIN DUGGAN
Preyer Infirmary—The antiseptic gloom, the pills, the bed that’s too short, the endless temperature-taking (with a shrill, “Your fever’s DOWN today, Mr. Doogan!”): they’re all a part of Davidson's deviously calculated punishment for being sick. But, like an angel who's stumbled accidentally into hell, there’s James, the infirmary janitor. Late in the afternoon he comes in to sweep: humming, pushing a rag mop, carrying a big white dustcloth. You interrupt his singing with a question: “How long have you worked here, James?” “Bout fawty yeahs.” He pulls an enamelled pin from his pocket, hands it to you. He takes back the pin, resumes his sweeping for a moment, then leans on his mop: “Oh, dis place sho’ has changed. Puhfessuh Thies is de onlies one lef' on de faculty dat was yeah when I came on.” He asks if it’s true, what he’s heard about Professor Thies’ approaching marriage, grins broadly when you tell him it’s true. “Zat right? To de guess house lady? I ’clare. James smiled a half-smile, remembering the old days. “You know, dey use to have a medical college downa— de street; train boys to be doctuhs.” He names a list of the old medical faculty: Dr. Monroe, Dr. Skinner, Dr. Peters... , “Dem was hoss an’ buggy days. Lotsa times I he’p ’em hitch up, me an’ my daddy an’ de doctuh. Tuck longer t’ git somewheah den, but dey got dere.” He tells the story of a fraternity — “eithuh de Betas or de Pi Kappa Phis” — which put a corpse in one of the columns of Old Chambers; and he has a story of a student caught at body-snatching. “I know de boy dat did it. Good boy, too. His daddy was a preachuh. “I wukked in ol’ Watts ‘fo’ I come ovuh heah. One time dis boy axed me if I knowed wheah dey was a pick an’ shovel. I tol’ him wheah t’ git ’em, but I Widn’ he’p him git ’em. “Well, he went up to de cullud graveyahd — you knows wheah de cullud graveyahd is — an’ got de body. He dug up jus’ about half of dis new grave an’ jus’ got de top paht of de body. "Den he tuck it back to Watts an’ boiled it an’ boiled it, an’ set de haid up een his winduh. “One of mah fren's dat wukked ovuh at Miz Gaston’s boadin’ house walked pas’ de dommito’y one day an’ say, ‘I ‘clare, James, dat look lak my daddy een dat winduh.’ “So I went up in de boy's room an’ saw dem clothes all caked wid mud, an’ dat pick, an’ I says, ‘Well, less us go to de graveyahd an’ see if da’s yo’ daddy.’ ” “We went ovuh dere, an’ sho’ ’nuff, his daddy was gone.” What did the college do to the body-snatcher? “Dey ship de boy. Dey ship him an’ chahge him five hunnud dollahs fuh damages. His daddy come up befo’ de faculty an’ explain. Dat boy was gonna be a doctuh. “Dey made de boy tak de body back an fix de grave jus’ lak it was. Made him put de haid back, an’ a a“ Ql " James starts to push the mop, slowly, staring at the floor.

YMCA PRESIDENT REPORTS
‘Y’ Cabinet Adopts ‘Rights’ Resolution
By JIMMY RICHARDSON
In its regular meeting of February 7, 1961, the cabinet of the Davidson College YMCA adopted unanimously with one abstention a resolution to the effect that we, as a cabinet, “express agreement with the object of achieving equal rights, in all relationships of life and with the use of the peaceful, non-violent technique for achieving the objective.” In other words, we stated that we appreciate and understand the student viewpoint that existing social conditions require effective protest such as “sit-ins,” picketing, and boycotts.

MORAL SUPPORT
What does this action mean to the student body of Davidson College? It means that the YMCA Cabinet is giving its moral support to the protesting students everywhere who are sincerely seeking equal rights for all men regardless of race or color. The cabinet wants it clearly understood that it is NOT speaking for Davidson College, the Davidson College YMCA, the faculty, the administration, or the student body but only for the members of the Davidson College YMCA Cabinet.

NOT ENTIRE YMCA
This resolution has been sent to all of the other YM-YWCA organizations in the Southern Region of the National Student YM-YWCA. In the resolution it was made perfectly clear that this was an action of THE CABINET of our YMCA and not an action of the entire YMCA of our college. The purpose in sending the resolution to these other Y’s was to show Negro and White students across our Southland that there are at least 17 Davidson students who are sincerely concerned in the Negro’s fight for equal rights and privileges. The National Student Christian Federation has provided a “Legal Aid and Scholarship Fund” for the purpose of financially aiding any student who needs legal aid as a result of seeking equal rights for all persons.

VESPERS OFFERING
In order to provide the Davidson student who wishes to do so an opportunity to show his tangible concern for these students, the cabinet has decided that the vespers offering this Sunday evening, March 5 will go in its entirety to the NSCF for the above purpose. Those who do not agree with this view are perfectly free not to participate in the offering. Those who do agree may make their financial contribution in this manner.

PRIOR TO PICKETING
I think that it is important that the student body note that this action by the YMCA Cabinet was taken prior to the movie picketing that has occurred recently in Charlotte; it has in no way grown out of this action in Charlotte but preceded it. The cabinet felt that the unequal rights given to Negroes demanded that as a cabinet we voice our concern and witness to the faith of our individual consciences. We do not judge the stand that is taken by any other person on campus. We simply pray we may be led to do what we feel that we, as individuals, should do.