PAGE FOUR

Summer — BY BILL HAGEN
Davidsonian Assignments Editor

The girl in white stumbles and falls, exhausted, on the sandy beach. She looks back, and we see three young men wading out of the ocean after her. They are dressed, respectively, in bermudas, a suit, and sports clothes. The three press forward and a waiting solitary figure appears in front of her. She rises, runs toward the single smiling boy and hesitantly reaches out for him. The touch of the couple's hands instantaneously infuses the picture with color. The pursuers turn, with complete lack of emotion, and walk back into the ocean.

GOOD DIRECTING

Thus ends the final scene of “Odalisque,” David Simpson's “latest” film effort which was shown last weekend in the Union. With experience consisting only of “watching foreign movies and a mock western produced in high school,” Simpson's film contained some surprisingly good camera work and direction. It will also be remembered that he personally managed, successfully, last year's Fine Film Festival and plans, in addition, to have an Experimental Film Festival this year.

“Odalisque” was shot last summer and arose out of the idea to make a short out of a comedy-ridden chase sequence. It was later changed to a symbolic dramatic pursuit and took approximately three days to film. Geneva Ritchie, a sophomore from Agnes Scott here for summer school, played the girl chased in “Odalisque.” She is presently majoring in psychology and has had no previous dramatic experience. Miss Ritchie, whose home is in Concord, will also star in Simpson's new movie, to be shot during Christmas vacation.

NEXT PICTURE

Ambitious preparations have already been made for this 45-minute sound and color movie, which will be filmed in Nassau. From the book, The Girl Beneath the Lion’s Head by Andre P. Demandigargues, the young producer has written a sizable script complete with camera directions. Simpson commented that, “the sensuously beautiful book concerns the transformation of a mentally unbalanced girl into a mature woman through a single night’s ritualistic love of her own design.” David Simpson, who names “Hiroshima Mon Amour” as “the best movie I have seen,” plans to go to France to study under one of the famous producers there after his graduation from Davidson.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brown
Griffin
Scott
Burts
Kelton
Stroud
Currie
Lilly
L. Daggy
Lloyd
Whittle
Gable
Martin, J. G.
Williams

Alumna’s Bonnie Day Grows By Degrees

BY BILL RUTH
Davidsonian Feature Editor

At Commencement last May, Miss Bonnie Ethel Cone, President of Charlotte College, became the first woman ever to receive any kind of degree from Davidson. She was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree for her outstanding work in the field of education. On the same day she received the first honorary degree ever awarded by that college. Miss Cone was graduated from Coker magna cum laude in 1928, and since that time has spent her life enthusiastically helping other people.

COLLEGE DIRECTOR

She taught school in South Carolina and was a mathematics teacher in Charlotte, and she even taught at Duke, being the only woman on the men’s campus during World War II. In 1946 she took a teaching position at Charlotte College and one year later became Director of the college. “I would like to say how pleased I am to have received an honorary degree from Davidson,” said Miss Cone. “It is really one of the highlights of my life. I am proud to have been there to participate in commencement exercises.”

During the past fifteen years, she has helped in the rapid development of Charlotte College from an extension of the University of North Carolina to its present junior college position. Due to the efforts of Miss Cone, the college is proceeding with a rapid construction program. “Our first two buildings, to be used for liberal arts and engineering science, will be dedicated on Sunday, October 15. They will supply 62,000 square feet of additional space to the College,” she continued.

MORE CONSTRUCTION

“All of the buildings are air-conditioned, and the science laboratory is equipped with the most up-to-date facilities. We are now in the process of planning two more buildings, a library, and a college union. With the passage of the state-wide tax issue, we will be able to complete a fifth building.”

Theft Complaints Bring Court Action

Five complaints of thefts involving a total of about $40 have been registered with the Honor Court in less than two weeks, Chairman Harrison Wellford announced this week. Each of the five acts of stealing occurred in the afternoon and involved cash which had been carelessly left in dormitory rooms. In connection with one theft, a student was apprehended and dismissed this week.

The linking of stealing and dance weekends brought the explanation from the chairman that the need for cash was the usual cause of violations at such times. He went on to note that in the past as well as this year reports of the disappearance of money always increased in the two or three weeks prior to dances. Warning that students “be reasonably careful about leaving temptations around,” Wellford pointed out that in each of the five cases the money had been left in plain sight.

Homecoming Weekend

Homecoming Weekend will be highlighted Saturday afternoon at 2:00 when the Wildcats entertain the Blue Hose of Presbyterian College for the Homecoming football game. The cheerleaders’ contingent of the Peon Army, under the command of Joe Martin, will lead Davidson’s newly acquired wildcat mascot to her first game as the team’s namesake.

During the halftime activities, the new President, President-elect, and two vice Presidents of the Davidson College Alumni Association will be named. Concluding this year’s formal Homecoming activities will be a semi-formal dance in the gym to the music of Ralph Flanagan and His Piano and Orchestra. During the dance, the Four Aces, a top recording group, will present a concert.

SIGNING UP for rooms; another Davidson tradition. Mrs. Moore maternally officiates as students participate in the ceremony. (Davidsonian Photo by McCutchen.)

Frosh Group Meets, Plans Class Project

Under the leadership of Freshman Adviser Bob Stone, the newly-elected Freshman Council held its first meeting this past Monday. It was highlighted by a talk from C. Shaw Smith; the acceptance of the first class project, and maybe some studying before classes on Monday.

39 Cadets Receive DMS At Ft. Bragg

Thirty-nine Davidson cadets were designated Distinguished Military Students for the school year 1961-62. To achieve this honor, cadets must have demonstrated outstanding qualities of leadership, moral character, and aptitude for military service.a DMS rating to be aimed at Richardson cadet must be recommended for Scholars: and the appointment his performance at ROTC sum. of the committees to handle the summer camp at Fort Bragg, and aspects of Freshman Parents Day on Nov. 4 at Davidson. In an opening address, Smith, director of the College Union, emphasized the job that council members would be expected to do and the importance of their position. 

"These students have the opportunity to take a regular Army commission rather than a reserve commission, if they so choose."

The cadets who earned the DMS rating were Jim Alexander, Andy Boggs, Walker Clarke, Harry Cline, Herb Collins, Pat Currie, Duke Davis, Harold Fisher, Bill Gerhardt, Bob Hartness, Cecil Holcomb, Bob Hord, Jim Jamison, Joe Kelley, George Kundahl, Paul Leonard, Dave Lovette, Bob McAllister, and Bob McFarland. Also receiving this commendation were Lynwood Mallard, Tom Martin, Mac Mitchell, Duncan Morton, Tom Patrick, Dave Page, Lowry Reid, Buddy Rives, Pat Rush, Jerry Shelton, Gibson Smith, Bob Stephens, Bob Stone, Floyd Walters, Skeeter Watson, Bill Whittington, Jim Woods, and Linton Wray.

Smith also stressed that other Freshmen Councils had paved the way for this one but had not done all the good there is to be done. "If you do on the council what you meant to do before you came to Davidson, you can accomplish anything that you want to," said Smith.

Stone suggested and led in the discussion of the first Freshman class project for the year. It is to be the raising of money to establish a fund to buy tickets for Richardson Scholars to concerts, plays, and other programs in the Charlotte area. Councilmen were asked to present the idea to their respective halls and to solicit donations from each freshman by Wednesday. The council feels that the concert tickets would serve two purposes. First, it would show the foreign students an aspect of our culture that they might not normally see. Secondly, it would set an example for all students to follow of making our guests feel at home throughout the school year.

BOARD OF VISITORS

On Tuesday, October 9, Miss Cone was notified that she had been appointed to the Board of Visitors. This year's enrollment at Charlotte College is 914 students as compared to 697 last year. The stolen money had been in the open or in an obvious place such as a desk drawer. Wellford also emphasized that if students wished to have stolen articles returned, "chances of getting it (the stolen article) back are a lot better if the Court learns about it immediately."

HOWARD HUGHES DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS

If you are interested in studies leading to a doctor's degree in physics or engineering, you are invited to apply for one of the several new awards in 1962 on the Howard Hughes Doctoral Fellowship Program. This unique program offers the doctoral candidate the optimum combination of high-level study at an outstanding institution plus practical industrial experience in the Hughes laboratories. Each Howard Hughes Doctoral Fellowship usually provides about $8,000 annually. Of this amount, approximately $1,800 is for tuition, thesis and research expenses, other academic fees, and books. The remainder is composed of salary earned by the fellow and a stipend. Howard Hughes Doctoral Fellowships are open to outstanding students. A master’s degree, or equivalent graduate work, is essential before beginning the Fellowship Program.

HUGHES MASTERS FELLOWSHIPS

The Hughes Masters Fellowship Program offers unusual opportunities for education leading to a master's degree and, in addition, provides each fellow with practical experience in the professional field of his choice. Approximately fifty new awards will be made in 1962 to qualified applicants possessing a bachelor’s degree in engineering or physics. Most of the award winners will be assigned to the WORK STUDY PROGRAM and will attend a university sufficiently near a facility of the Hughes Aircraft Company to permit them to obtain practical experience in a professional field of their choice, by working at the company at least half time. An appropriate stipend will be awarded.

A small, highly selected group will be offered a FULL-STUDY PROGRAM. Participants in this program will receive fellowships that permit them to attend an outstanding university on a full-time basis during the regular academic year with a substantial stipend. After completion of the Master's Program, fellows are eligible to apply for HUGHES STAFF DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS.

For both programs, typical areas of research and development to which fellows may be assigned while working for Hughes include: weapons control systems, infrared search and track systems, advanced propulsion systems, parametric amplifiers, masers, lasers, microwave tubes and devices, electron-tube and solid-state displays, semiconductor materials, antenna arrays, aerospace vehicles and trajectories, plasma electronics, solid-state, atomic, nuclear and aerospace physics, propagation, mechanics of structures, chemistry and metallurgy, systems analysis, human factors and analysis, network analysis and synthesis, microminiaturization, communications, data processing, information theory, simulation. The classified nature of work at Hughes makes American citizenship and eligibility for security clearance a requirement. Closing date for applications: January 15, 1962.

How to apply: To apply for either the Howard Hughes Doctoral Fellowship or the Hughes Masters Fellowships write Dr. C. N. Warfield, Manager Educational Relations, Hughes Aircraft Company, Culver City, California.

Creating a new world with ELECTRONICS

Hughes

HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY

An equal opportunity employer.

BILL and HAZEL SURINKLE

THE CONNOISSEUR RESTAURANT DRIVE-IN

ON THE WAY TO SALEM

EAT DINNER WITH US

PIZZA B. B. QUE SANDWICHES COLD DRINKS

N. MAIN, MOORESVILLE

Fellowship programs

MOST READ NON-CURRICULAR BOOKS DURING 1960 - 1961

No. Times Read
Goldwater: The Conscience of a Conservative 26
Lee: To Kill a Mockingbird 21
Shirer: The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich 18
Lampedusa: The Leopard 17
Swarthout: Where the Boys Are 16
Michener: Hawaii 16
Wilson: Ritual in the Dark 15
Slaughter: Pilgrims in Paradise

List compiled by Carrie L. Brittain, Circulation and Reference Librarian.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

STUDENTS FREE WITH PARENTS

THE OAKS MOTOR COURT
344 South Main Street
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
Owners and Mgrs.
TELEPHONE 663-5693

AIR-CONDITIONED INDIVIDUAL HEAT FULL BATHS FREE TV

"Our next step is to become a four-year institution," she added. Charlotte College stands as a real measure of the accomplishments of Davidson's alumna.

By 2:00 p.m. Sunday, 600 tired and sleepy girls will have checked out of the dormitories to make room for their weary dates hoping for a little rest.

Send your order today. Enclose check or money order. Use coupon below.

The Christian Science Monitor
One Norway St., Boston 15, Mass.

Send your newspaper for the time checked.
6 months $5.50
1 year $10.50
College Student
Faculty Member

Name
Address
City
Zone
State

"This special offer available ONLY to college students, faculty members, and college libraries."

Stone also appointed chairmen to four committees for Freshman Parents Day. They are as follows: Pete Coggeshall, publicity; Dan Campbell, tours; Jerry Martin, reception; and Dick Bates, registration. Tom Cobb, a freshman cheerleader, made an announcement concerning freshman participation in the Homecoming Rally. He emphasized that the march through upperclass dormitories should be done in as orderly a manner as possible and that no riot was to be provoked. He also asked the council members to exert their influence to keep the rally from becoming a beanie burning affair.