Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Fresh Breeze From The Hill

Dean Richard C. Burts was late to his first DAVIDSONIAN interview. “How long do you wait for a professor? A
doctor? A college administrator?” said the new dean as he showed three of the staff into his office. The dean
had let a student use his telephone during lunch hour. “I waited as long as I could but he still
hadn't finished!” he said.

“I have nothing to say about shirttails!” cracked Dean Burts when we tried to draw him out on the rumor
that he would attempt to make the Davidson student body tuck in its collective shirt. Dean Burts’ attitude is typical,
we hope, of a new look on the Hill. We were extremely pleased by the friendliness and amicability of this
man, new to us and to Davidson College. We talked seriously about some of the issues on campus: fraternities, drinking,
the new traffic court (see story on page one). And we detected, or hope we detected, a strength and fairness,
together with a real respect for student opinion, in this man from Mercer. We are looking forward to more discussions
in the future.

Ten days into the new semester is hardly the time to expect miracles or drastic changes in policy. But we
are grateful for all the signs shown so far. As the new dean learns more about Davidson, and as we
get to know him better, we are counting on a fresh breeze to blow from the Dean of Students office.
If it can revive the tired opinions of even a few members of the so-called College Family we will have
been benefitted.

D. B. S.

New People, New Spirit, Old Songs

At their opening meeting almost two weeks ago, the Class of 1965 sang the alma mater. That put them ahead
of most Davidson students who only sing it (or mumble through it) once during their college careers — at graduation.
We were pleasantly surprised and embarrassed when Dean Burts, a newcomer so to speak, made the suggestion and Joe Martin
led in the singing — pleased, because an alma mater is meant to be sung, and embarrassed, because we seniors
were caught not knowing the words any better than the freshmen.

This episode was the start of a determined effort on the part of our new dean and our new cheerleader
to revive a meaningful school spirit. There could be no better start than to restore the spirited singing of our
fight song and alma mater at athletic events, pep rallies and other student convocations. We support them wholeheartedly in this
effort.

Yesterday, Joe and the cheerleaders and the freshmen showed us a thing or two about this new drive. He has
proved he has backing of the Class of ’65. Coach Dole has some mighty high hopes for this season and
rightly so with the fine team he has assembled. Coach Driesell is talking of big-league basketball and just look at
his freshmen. But victories aren’t essential to a revival of the spirit that Dean Burts or Joe or the freshmen
are anxious for. Nor do we need riots to prove its existence. It’s a pride that reaches beyond Richardson Field
into the dorm, or classroom or wherever Davidson men assemble. It’s an awareness of the fine things Davidson has been
in the past and can be in the future.

Let's sing along with the freshmen. They are planning to teach us the words, and a few things about Davidson
in the process.

Innocuous, Inane, Ineffective

Again this year the Entering Freshmen have been subjected to the Faculty Reception. We might suppose the custom is almost
as old as the college’s 125 years. The tense attempts at conversation and almost strained smiles are certainly much older.
And although we cannot believe there has ever been another Dr. Chalmers Davidson, perhaps there was some professor just as
personable, if not so genealogical, to animate the line 125 years ago. Undoubtedly, the rite held little profit or pleasure
for anyone. It is not pleasant, but it is no ordeal. It has simply become innocuous.

Hallelujah. After long years of DAVIDSONIAN campaign and general griping, the Student Body owes its thanks to President Martin and
the Administration for the ten percent reduction in the list price of texts in the College Book Store this fall.
The move is part of a new policy to make profits, which had formerly been placed in a student loan
fund, directly available to the students. By retaining half of the 20 percent discount which the college generally receives from
the publishers, the bookstore should be able to cover operational losses and costs, including Mr. Kimbrough’s salary. Most students are
not aware that the college makes no charge for overhead and bookkeeping costs. But most of us are aware of
the rising publisher’s prices of textbooks over which neither the college nor we have any control. The annual rise amounted
to between five and ten percent this year and will continue indefinitely. The bookstore could well help students meet inflationary
prices by expanding its operations to include a used book exchange. The value of such a service has long been
realized by other colleges where college-operated exchanges have existed for years. Since the YMCA discontinued its exchange service several years
ago, the Union has been the lone operator in this field. A centralized, efficient book exchange would be the logical
implementation to what we think is a very proper and just change in bookstore policy.

LK

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Lee Kirby

BUSINESS MANAGER
Don Saunders

Associate Editors
John A. Carson
Mae Plaxico

Managing Editors
Steve Clark
Bill Hagen
David Jordan
Gene Adcock

Feature Editor
Rick von Unwerth

Photographers
Jerry Abernethy
Marty Lafferty
Bill Wyche

Advertising Manager
Ed Willer

Circulation Manager
Jimmy Platt

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

DEAR FRESHMEN

The Making Of A Man?

By JOHN A. CARSON
Davidsonian Managing Editor

You have just been through the most unusual week of your life. Probably each of you began the week feeling
pretty important. You were astounded at the friendliness of the upperclassmen, and at their sincere interest in you. Tuesday afternoon
your room was flooded with fellows from your favorite fraternity — they seem to really like you. They kept coming
— each with a warm smile and firm handshake. Wasn't it something at the house Tuesday night! More smiles, handshakes,
big welcome, “Glad to have you down... Hope you'll come back.” It seemed almost like a dream. You had expected
to come to Davidson as a lowly freshman, to have to get around on your own, to feel insignificant and
lost in a world of college sophisticates. But all of a sudden, there you were: sophomores, juniors, seniors — all
swarming your room, rolling out the red carpet for you.

But then you noticed it was Wednesday afternoon, and though there had been some fellows from other fraternities by to
see you, THEY were not around. You met one of THEM in the hall — the same one who walked
you back to the dorm last night. He grunted a half-way friendly “hello” as he brushed past you. Then you
realized it. You were no longer one of THEIR boys. But why? You tried to be friendly. You wore your
finest clothes. You tried to speak to everyone at least once. You did your best, but suddenly they're gone. And
so it went. Some of you felt big all week; others felt smaller each day as you watched them flock
around the guy next door. And yet no matter how big you felt at times, surely you began to grow
weary during the latter part of the week. You got sick of smiling at the hounds as they visited your
room more and more. You got tired of shaking hands with a hundred different fellows each night. You began to...Here
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

fee) that they were getting as tired of visiting you as you were of seeing them. Not to mention your
studies. Thank goodness you could retreat to the library for a while each afternoon. But it’s all over now. Some
of you are in the fraternity of your choice, others chose a lesser one, still others remain independent. At any
rate, you are now once again a person. The upperclassmen have abandoned your dorms. No more big smiles, handshakes, small
talk. It’s all over. Now you're just another student — one among a thousand. You are going to need a
lot more than that big smile and firm handshake in order to get by. Rush Week is over. Classes are
well under way. Freshman regulations go into effect tomorrow. You'll soon be getting to know what Davidson's really like. Best
of luck.

The DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten,
double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with
the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should not be received later than 6 p.m.
Wednesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 218, Davidson, N.C.

The Breaking Of A Man . . .

DEFINITION, EDUCATION, ENFORCEMENT

TEDIOUS, EXHAUSTING

The Trial Of A Man

By RICK VON UNWERTH
Davidsonian Feature Editor

This day marks the close of one of the most tedious, exhausting, nerve-frazzling weeks that any Davidson man can go
through. For some, it was immeasurably rewarding; for others, it ended “. . . not with a bang but a
whimper.”

Howell ..

By | sf. soe"

Honor Court Chairman Presents Plan For Year

By HARRISON WELLFORD
Chairman of the Honor Court

Last spring, in the wake of a serious increase in thefts and other more nebulous infringements on the code of
honor at Davidson, THE DAVIDSONIAN called for a comprehensive program of definition, education, and enforcement of the Honor System as
a means to recharge the Davidson atmosphere with the spirit of honor that for so long has been one of
the most cherished traditions here. It was felt that one of the main reasons students were not enforcing the Honor
System was because they did not fully understand what the Honor System really is.

As an outgrowth of these concerns, the Honor Court, through the cooperation of THE DAVIDSONIAN, will initiate this fall a
series of articles which will attempt to clarify, re-interpret, and re-evaluate the system of honor at Davidson and the individual
student's relation to it. In this premier article of the series, the Honor Court would like to outline briefly some
of the areas where it feels clarification is necessary and to mention how it hopes to implement a vigorous program
of definition, education, and enforcement.

Briefly, the areas where the Court feels clarification and interpretation are needed lie in the distinction between duty-bound and honor-bound,
and the responsibility that the former carries for the individual student; in the whole spectrum of pledged work, from reviews
and makeups to book reports and the misuse of spot boxes; in the clear delineation of Honor Court jurisdiction, with
the possible extension of student body regulation jurisdiction to include dormitory behavior and the defacing of library possessions; in the
practice of diving, that is, feigning illness so that one will not have to take a test at the prescribed
period; and in the drinking rule — exactly what it encompasses as interpreted by the Court.

The Honor Court will strive to carry through its program by a series of measures. It will work with the
faculty to tighten areas where laxness, as in the re-administration of old tests, might induce or encourage dishonesty; and the
Court will cooperate closely with the Student Council and Mr. Currie’s office to plan coordinated policy in regard to upholding
the Honor System. By emphasizing its concern with basic dishonesty and in working to introduce an amendment to give expression
to this concern, the Court will strive to counteract any false impression that honor at Davidson is limited to the
confines of the technical articles listed in the Constitution.

Finally, by introducing a thorough system of education through chapel programs and DAVIDSONIAN articles, the Honor Court will work to
keep the student body informed of Court interpretation and policy regarding issues arising under the Honor System and Student Body
Regulations. This is your Honor Court's program and the means it will use to forward its success. Yet whatever the
efforts of the Court, and the other branches of student government, this program to reinstall a vibrant spirit of honor
at Davidson will fail without the concerned cooperation and interest of each individual member of this student body. Honor cannot
be imposed from above, for it rests within each man’s conscience. This Court can only try to create an atmosphere
conducive to honor; in the end, the responsibility for making a decision to uphold honor lies with each of you.

Saturday and Sunday was all smiles. At that time the “What's your major” ’s and “What did you think of
Orientation” ’s were still friendly. By Wednesday the grins became a little gritty. The early hour sessions after the parties
began to show in the faces and conversations of the fraternity men; freshmen began to hide out in the library
and the gym. Books and studies struggled futilely for the upper hand in the hand-grabbing competition, with another night of
parties looming large. At the parties, brothers and Rushees alike had to present their best, and each man’s best had
to be “natural.”

HARD

It was hard on the freshmen; harder, much harder on the upperclassmen. From two to six or eight hours a
night of wrangling, boredom, anxiety — the complete spectrum of emotions drained a share of spirit from every boy at
every house. Thursday and Friday the talk was, in most cases, no longer cheap. The wire wasn’t far off. You
got with “your boy” and you explored each other. The Rushees showed what they wanted, and the fraternities showed them
hard that they had it. The singing was a little softer, a little closer, a little more reverent. The handshakes
were fewer and longer; a squeeze on the shoulder replaced the pat on the back.

BIDS ISSUED

Friday night brought the final session, and nobody minded the heat. When the parties were over and the hands were
wrung, cheeks had dried, and the last stirring phrase had died away, the grim business of the bid was met
head-on. The night brought chuckles and groans, relief and hurt, clash after clash among the closest of friends. Feelings were
trod on and a new side of the sophomores was seen. But the central theme was sustained: The best interests
of the essence of “fraternity.”

Saturday afternoon was the culmination of a one-hundred-and-sixty-eight hour week. For many it was jubilant; for some it wasn't. For
all it was a relief. But it’s over now — for better or for worse.

The Freshman ...

Ravings Of A Statistician

The Class of ‘65 ...

Numbers 275 Freshmen, 31% of the 886 High School Seniors who applied, 69% of the 402 who were accepted for
admission, ... originates in 26 states and one foreign country; is 12% Yankee (2% a few years ago) but 13%
rebel Alumni-sons. The “mean” Freshman ... scored 569 on the College Board verbal test, 610 on the math. ... beat
the “mean” Seniors 37 points on the verbal and 40 on the math sections of the College Boards. The “average”
Freshman won slightly more than two athletic letters in high school. 66 are 6’ 2” or over. One in five
Freshmen was president of his class or of the student body in high school. One in thirteen was newspaper or
annual editor. Eighty applied only to Davidson. Fewer than twenty were rejected by other schools, and Davidson Freshmen rejected acceptances
from 95 other schools to come here.

Verbal
Applied Accepted Enrolled
750-800 6 3 3
700-749 29 23 10
650-699 83 58 38
600-649 100 68 42
560-599 159 88 64
500-549 196 94 65
450-499 142 50 39
400-449 107 18 16
350-399 42 0 0
300-349 22 0 0
250-289 1 0 0
Totals 886 402

(Class of) Mean Scores
Verbal 499
Math 534

Math
Applied Accepted Enrolled
750-800 15 14 10
700-749 51 40 23
650-699 104 76 51
600-649 155 89 57
560-599 212 100 73
500-549 173 58 45
450-499 103 16 12
400-449 44 8 6
350-399 22 1 0
300-349 5 0 0
250-289 2 0 0
Totals 886 402 271

(Class of) Mean Scores
Verbal 569
Math 610

NOW LOOK WHAT YOU'VE DONE... YOU'VE BURIED YOUR R

---
