FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

BIG BROTHER IS WATCHING YOU — The man in stripes carefully observes Wildcat soccerman ALAN JONES (black uniform) as he
dribbles by Belmont Abbey player here Monday. (Davidsonian Staff Photo by Joc McCutchen.)

Sideline Soccermen Carry 5-1-1 Record To Unbeaten Pfeiffer Wednesday

This coming Tuesday Davidson's booters will journey to Misenheimer to match with the undefeated Pfeiffer squad. Pfeiffer has a 7-0
record, with wins over N.C. State, South Carolina, Emory, Appalachian, Washington & Lee, Randolph Macon, and Belmont Abbey. Coach Harry
Fogelman is expecting a real match with the Falcons, and that they have “a very good team with two excellent
inside men.”

In a home match Monday afternoon, the Wildcats defeated Belmont Abbey, 4-3, in overtime. Davidson had won a previous match
from the Abbeymen, 6-2. Fogelman complimented the Abbey booters by saying, “They played much better than the first time we
played them.” Of his own team’s performance he stated, “We played well, but we just couldn't seem to score right.
It was a real team effort though.” Against the Abbey, Joe Kelly accounted for 2 goals, Greg Winkler for one,
and Fred Schoen the other. Schoen’s goal was the deciding one in the overtime. Two of the Abbey's goals came
on penalty kicks.

In Wednesday's action, Davidson’s freshmen booters played N.C. for their first match of the season against a newly formed Guilford
College team. Although the frosh lost, 0-3, the match added much to the experience of the players, many of whom
had never been in a soccer match. Several freshmen who showed promise in the match included Glenn Hanes, John Curry,
Abbot Whitney, and John Faulkenberry. Davidson's soccer schedule for the remainder of the season includes Duke, Appalachian, and Emory.

Comments | STEVE CLARK

TOP TWENTY?

OVERHEARD THIS WEEK was the fact that many students are planning a big exodus to the two opening basketball games
this season. The opener is in Winston-Salem on December 2 against Wake Forest, defending Atlantic Coast Conference champions. Then on
December 5, the ‘Cats play in the Duke University Field House. Needless to say, these two games are rugged starters.
It’s kind of like having two 50-megaton bombs fall in your little shelter within three days. Duke and Wake are
rated 1-2 respectively in the South in the pre-season polls, and both are assured of national ranking when the season
gets rolling. What would happen if Davidson upset both of them? We'd be in the Top Twenty, my friends, that’s
what.

TIDBITS FROM HERE AND THERE

DAVIDSON’S next soccer foe, Pfeiffer, gives out soccer scholarships, since they have no football team. Small wonder they’re undefeated this
season.

THE FRESHMAN SOCCER TEAM'S match with Guilford here Wednesday resembled a PE match. The frosh had practiced together all of
one day, and Guilford had been assembled a whole week. Most of our boys had on PE shirts, pants, and
tennis shoes.

CAPTAINS for tomorrow’s football game are Joe Ansley and Bill Dole, Jr.

CITADEL’S place-kicking specialist, Bill Gilgo, is making a determined assault on Bruce Usher's Southern Conference record for the most field
goals in one season. Usher set the record as a freshman in 1958 with four 3-pointers. But Gilgo has a
talented toe. The senior end from Washington, N.C., has booted three this season—a 43-yarder against Richmond, a 27-yard one that
beat William & Mary with two seconds remaining in the game, and a 21-yard one that nipped Furman. His 43-yarder
broke West Virginia’s Johnny Thackston’s 39-yard record for the longest field goal. Gilgo has another record too. His 20 point-after-touchdown
placements last season are tops in that category.

THE CRYSTAL BALL

HOPING TO REACH 30 rights this week, our crystal ball (25-17) foresees the following events: Davidson travels to William &
Mary tomorrow to play a team that has had more than its share of trouble. But so has Davidson. However,
a good week of practice and a sheer determination not to finish in the conference cellar should pull the ’Cats
through. Pick Davidson, 14-8. The Citadel can sew up the conference championship with a win against sophomorish VMI. Of course,
VMI is the defending champion and would like to repeat. This one can be a real thriller. In the battle
of the military-minded, pick experienced Citadel, say by a Gilgo field goal, 10-7. Other games: Memphis State 28, Furman 15;
West Virginia 20, George Washington 13; and Richmond 14, VPI 7.

Announcing The Addition Of Another Outstanding British Import

Cox-Moore Sweaters

Combined with Allen Paine and J. G. D. McGeorge giving us the Finest Collection in this field

Rush Wilson, Ltd.

Hoopsters Prep For Wake Forest Opener

BY BILL PRIDGEN Davidsonian Sports Writer

The varsity and freshman basketball teams continued their workouts this week in preparation for the big opener at Wake Forest,
Saturday night, Dec. 2. Coach Lefty Driesell has had his varsity working on the fast break, and they have been
using it to advantage in scrimmages against Coach Joe Hunt's talented freshmen. Junior Bill Jarman has been looking especially good
in these early workouts, and Driesell is counting on him to better his 15.3 average a year ago. In addition,
Jarman collected almost 10 rebounds a game last year.

On the Monday following the Thanksgiving recess (Nov. 27), the varsity and freshmen will tangle in a regulation game down
in Johnston Gym. In this game, students will get a good chance to see the potential of this year’s varsity
and also the talents of the much-heralded frosh. All proceeds from this game will go to the Living Endowment Fund.
Following the Wake Forest encounter, the cagers travel over to Durham, N.C., for a contest with the Duke Blue Devils.

State Meet On Tap Next For Harriers

The varsity and freshman cross-country teams travel to Raleigh, N.C., this coming Monday to run in the State Meet. The
varsity will run a 4-mile course, while the frosh are slated for only a 2-mile jaunt. Other teams competing in
the meet include Catawba, High Point, Duke, N.C. State, Pembroke, UNC, and Wake Forest. N.C. State is the host team,
and the meet will be run on their course. In last year’s meet, Davidson finished behind Duke and Carolina for
third place. Those two are favored again, but Wake Forest is a real dark horse.

STERLING MARTIN

Sterling Martin, Davidson's star runner, is assured to be up front somewhere when the race is finished. Martin was fourth
in last year’s State Meet. This past Wednesday the harriers were defeated by VMI, 20-45, despite Martin's winning effort. The
Keydet frosh also nipped the Wildkittens, 28-29. Chester Davis and Tommy Heffener paced the local frosh.

Tankmen Take Dips As Season Nears

The Davidson swimming team began practice last week in preparation for its opening meet at Appalachian, December 9. Coach Dwight
Shoe has not had a real opportunity to look athis personnel yet due to his work with the football team,
but if past performances mean anything, he has a pretty good nucleus to work with. Captain of this year’s team
is Stefan Young, outstanding performer in the breaststroke. Year before last, Young held the conference record in this event. Other
performers Shoe will be counting on include Tom French, backstroke artist; Bill Whittington, who placed second in conference diving last
year; Carter Mebane, to whom Shoe refers as his “replacement for Tom Hudgins,” last year’s outstanding freestyler; and sophomore Jack
Hollenbeck, whom Shoe calls “a tremendous swimmer.”

Davidsonians meet J. C., 63, a team that trampled Davidson, 35-6. Captain Donald Threlkeld is apparently unworried about the match.
He feels that his boys are taking their errors in stride and steadily improving. “Inexperience is the big factor,” says
Coach Threlkeld, “especially when you play teams of such calibre.” And the part-time ‘Kitten mentor believes his team will lend
appreciable aid to the varsity next year, especially in Tommy Worrell and Pat Fisher at halfback, Jay Rogers at tackle,
and Steve Heckard at end.

SOPHS 74, FROSH 73
The sophomores nipped the freshmen basketball team 74-73 in a nip and tuck game last night. Terry Holland, Lymon Dillon,
Bill Beerman, and Howard Arbuckle paced the sophs over the highly touted frosh unit.

Betas Nip Phi Delts; Take Flickerball Lead
Beta Theta Pi grabbed the lead in the I-F flickerball race yesterday afternoon by nipping Phi Delta Theta, 19-18, in
the I-F game of the week. The Betas had to stage a dramatic comeback for the victory, however. The Phi
Delts held the halftime lead at 12-6, and increased this margin to 18-6 shortly after the second half had begun.
But on the kickoff following the Phi Delts’ third touchdown, the Betas took it all the way back to paydirt.
Billy Mills broke loose down the right sidelines and flipped a 20-yard pass to Steve Clark for the TD. Tommy
Hamilton then hit Mills in the endzone for what proved to be the deciding extra point. The Betas’ breaks continued
when on the ensuing kickoff, Mills’ kick rolled dead on the Phi Delt one-yard line. Hamilton raced downfield and downed
the free ball, giving the Betas possession on the Delts’ nine. Four plays later, Hamilton passed to Clark, who flipped
to Jamie Long for the deciding TD. With two minutes left in the game, the Betas made a goal line
stand on their own nine, ran out the clock when they took over.

Other action this week went as follows:
Monday—Phi Gams 32, Sigma Nus 14; SAE’s 52, Independents 18; ATO's 23, Pikas 13; KA’s 33, SPE’s 0.
Wednesday—Betas 46, Sigma Chis 6; Phi Delts 39, Pi Kapps 0; Kappa Sigs 30, SAE’s 12; and Pikas 6, Sigma
Nus 0.
Thursday—KA’s 25, Independents 19; ATO’s 20, Sigma Chis 13; and SPE’s 26, Pi Kapps 12.

STANDINGS (through Thursday)
Beta
Kappa Sig
KA
Phi Delt
Phi Gam
SAE
ATO
Sigma Chi
SPE
Independent
Pika
Sigma Nu
Pi Kapp

THE TWIST? — GREG WINKLER appears to be twisting as he kicks the ball toward three teammates against Belmont.

Cats Visit William & Mary
Both Teams Seek To Escape Loop Cellar
BY STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

The Davidson College football team gets its last chance to win a Southern Conference game this season tomorrow at 2
p.m. in William & Mary’s Cary Field Stadium. The game will be the battle for the conference cellar since Davidson
is 0-4 and William & Mary is 1-4 in loop play. Consequently, tomorrow's loser will sew up last place for
this year.

William & Mary has played excellent ball at times this season—much better than their 1-6 overall record would indicate. The
Indians’ losses have been to VPI (6-20), Virginia (6-21), Navy (6-44), The Citadel (8-10), George Washington (12-49), and VMI (7-14).
Their lone win was over Furman (19-6), who whipped Davidson earlier in the season, 45-19.

LIKE HOME
A strange thing about the Indians is that they seem to perk up in their own stadium. Following three straight
road losses at the first of the season, they came home to upset Furman, who was undefeated at the time.
The next week at home they played the socks off Citadel, whose field goal with two seconds remaining in the
game was the margin of victory.

In many ways, William & Mary is very much like Davidson. They have an excellent first team, but depth is
a problem. They are not tremendously heavy (line averages about 208 pounds per man), but they can move quickly. Starting
for the frosh on offense Saturday: LE—Steve Heckard, LT—Don Hall, LG—Bruce Dalton, C—David Walker, RG—Bill Wilson, RT—Jay Rogers or Steve
Schoen, RE—Sam Grimes, QB—Barry Story, HB—Tommy Worrell, HB—Pat Fisher, FB—Alex Wyatt.

Unlike most of Davidson's opponents this season, William & Mary relies on a ground attack rather than a passing one.
Senior quarterback Calvin Cox can throw, but prefers to hand off to speedy halfbacks Roger Hale and Charlie Weaver. Hale
was the team’s leading scorer last year.

TOP RUSHERS
The team’s leading rusher is H. C. Thaxton, 200-lb. blockbusting senior fullback. Also, alternate quarterback Dan Barton is an excellent
runner, who scored two TD's in the Furman upset. Top linemen for the Indians include lettermen ends Ernie Phillips and
Dennis O’Toole, 230-lb. sophomore tackle John Sapinsky, guard Eric Erdossy, and pivotman John Gravely.

The Indians have been hindered all season by a leaky defense and numerous penalties. Also, Coach Milton Drewer has had
somewhat of a problem with the attitude of his players, whose lack of pep has been a concern for Indian
followers.

SECOND SHUTOUT
Meanwhile, Coach Bill Dole seeks a way to get his Wildcats’ offense rolling again. Last weekend's 20-0 loss to Richmond
was the ‘Cats’ second straight shutout after averaging almost three touchdowns a game in the first four games. Richmond simply
overpowered Davidson, who managed only 6 first downs, 58 yards rushing, and 78 yards passing. Sophomore quarterback Earl Cole was
practically the only bright spot in an otherwise dark afternoon for Davidson.

Next weekend, the ‘Cats return home for their final game as the Wofford Terriers invade Richardson Field for Charlotte-Mecklenburg Day.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE STANDINGS
Conference All
W L Pct. W L Pct.
The Citadel 4 1 .800 5 2 .714
VMI 3 2 .600 4 3 .571
George Washington 3 2 .600 3 4 .428
Richmond 3 2 .600 3 4 .428
Furman 2 2 .500 5 2 .714
VPI 1 2 .333 2 5 .286
West Virginia 1 2 .333 3 4 .428
William & Mary 1 4 .200 1 6 .143
Davidson 0 4 .000 2 4 .333

THE CONNOISSEUR RESTAURANT
B.B. QUE DRIVE-IN
SERVES LUNCHES, SPECIAL SUNDAY LUNCHEON DINNERS, ALL KINDS OF SANDWICHES, PIZZA, COLD BEVERAGES
N. MAIN, MOORESVILLE (On The Way To Salem)
