Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1961
(Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Concerning ‘Fresh’ Freshmen

In only a few weeks our “cocky” freshmen have stirred ripples, even waves on the smooth, cool waters of Davidson tranquility. They have criticized our system and tradition with an unusually fresh eye and unaccustomed enthusiasm. We, the Establishment, have replied with the accustomed vigor that their enthusiasm is unusually “fresh.”

Freshman criticism does perhaps lack the depth of experience. It is impossible to understand Davidson tradition in three weeks. It is impossible to know all the history or have collected all the facts. Freshmen, being four years younger than Seniors, cannot be expected to criticize with senior maturity. But a man new to Davidson has two great advantages in his youth and inexperience—the ability to criticize independent of the system and enthusiasm.

The change from freshman to upperclassman, the fitting-in to our system, implies learning to live with some of its incongruities, but we go further. The incongruities, the injustices become our accepted norms. Having “fit in,” we settle into a routine of lethargy, and indifferent mediocrity. The enthusiastic freshman becomes the tired senior.

The process of trimming down the freshman has begun. He will be honed to sharpness, reduced to coolness, oiled to smoothness. Before the decay begins, the Establishment can learn from its neophytes. We can gain from their new look at us and their open enthusiasm. Let’s at least give them an unbiased hearing. Davidson is embarking on new seas of opportunity. It needs young navigators. To the Freshmen we can offer the counsel of experience: Change is unwelcome at Davidson. We can also offer a challenge: Davidson can be changed.

L. K.

Needed: Cure For ‘Culture Anemia’

The new Cunningham Building is about ready for dedication. A rash of “fine arts” will mark its debut in two weeks. But after Oct. 27, what happens? Let's be honest. Unfortunately, Davidson is “culturally” sick. True, we have several fine lecture series. There are an abundance of clubs and organizations. But the “fine arts” overall fare badly.

In the past year we have seen a rejuvenation in one area, dramatics—but only through a dedicated, prodigious, back-breaking program. And labors are being rewarded this fall with renewed emphasis on dramatics, a new department, and an encouraging student turnout. Yet, still, art and music—with the glaring exception of the Male Chorus, which has a healthy reputation and a week-long spring tour—are not in! Playboy pinups are the extent of “art appreciation” indulged in by most Davidson Gentlemen. And classical music doesn’t stand a chance against rock and roll.

If we expect the new building to mean anything at all to the average student, some ambitious plans and programs must be initiated. The whole student outlook and orientation to “fine arts” will have to be changed. The cure and recovery will take time, even with careful prescription. Naturally, much will depend on the nature and quality of programs presented. The concert band has a good nucleus. In fact, each year there is a promising freshman turnout; then as the neophytes discover that the band isn't “in,” they quickly fade out. Perhaps improved facilities and a new, enthusiastic director can alter this trend.

Yet a lesson should be learned from the Vagabonds. A number of ambitious, well-publicized programs should be begun as soon as possible with a “different” approach. Charlotte is nearby with exceptionally wide and varied offerings, which all too frequently go unnoticed, or it’s too troublesome to get tickets. The new building could furnish a ticket office that would publicize locally all concerts, plays, art shows and the like in nearby areas. Provisions could be made with Ovens Auditorium for this office to handle ticket sales here on the campus. Most of these series—Charlotte Opera, Symphony, Oratorio Singers, Theatre League—have special rates for students anyway.

In the realm of art, a boost could be furnished with a Davidson-sponsored state collegiate art contest. It would show off the new building, aid our problem and furnish a real art service. Students from schools all over the State would be invited to submit entries with distinguished art personalities judging. These could be displayed and winners announced at a special weekend conference which would feature noted art lectures.

We can’t step right into the Cunningham Building and derive much immediate benefit, regardless of how fine the stage might be or how excellent the acoustics. We have to cure a “culture anemia.”

Faculty Votes Its Confidence

Faculty action was taken this week to implement recommendations made by last year’s Honor Court (see page one). These recommendations Scott Lacy, past Court chairman, and Harrison Wellford, present chairman, presented to the faculty last spring. Although the faculty at that time unanimously accepted a statement of policy concerning pledged work, there were no indications that several other proposals would be acted upon. Specifically, the problem of using old reviews or repeating reviews for make-up sections was not tackled.

This week the faculty heard a strong recommendation from its Judicial Committee on this very issue. When this proposal is carried out it will provide a much-needed clarification of a serious problem. Last year's Honor Court report called attention to these practices which were called “encroachments on the Honor System.” We think Lacy and Wellford can be proud that the faculty has been so willing to show its faith in our Honor System to adopt their statement of pledged work and their recommendations for improving the test system.

Although this year’s Honor Court has already drawn heavy fire, it has shown its continued desire to develop at Davidson a workable, effective code of honor which will apply to all parts of campus activity. We trust faculty support will be forthcoming on other serious recommendations recently presented by the Court. Meanwhile, the students and the Honor Court have received a vote of confidence.

D. B. S.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Jordan

BUSINESS MANAGER
Gene Adcock

Associate Editors
Lee Kirby
Photographer
Joe McCutchen
Don Saunders
Cartoonists
Doug Ackerman
Managing Editors
John A. Carson
Joe Howell
Mac Plaxico
Dan Adams
Sports Editor
Steve Clark
Advertising Manager
Ed Willer
Assignments Editor
Bill Hagen
Circulation Manager
Bob Llewellyn
Feature Editor
Rick von Unwerth
Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Young Navigator? . . .

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Trotter Protests Double Threat; Spirited Frosh Not Frightened

Trotter

Dear Editor:

I had originally drafted a very lengthy letter seconding and defending Mr. Jan Papra’s letter attacking the Honor Court. It would seem that a modification is in order however, as both sides of the issue have already been drawn to such an extent that anything further of value could not be added by my feelings. It need only be said his views were set forth with much more evidence of thought and serious concern than is true with the usual letter of vehemence. He not only attacked his subject, he suggested just and sensible measures to remove the cause of his displeasure—measures which showed his sincerity. His letter was a move of courage and conviction, and as such, was obviously destined to be sniped and snarled at as soon as it appeared in print.

There are, nonetheless, two points—side issues if you like—stemming from this letter which need airing.

One: Naturally Mr. Papra did not get to hear the full story of the Honor Court—of its attempt to take into consideration extenuating circumstances; none of us did. The assembly talk by which we freshmen were introduced and indoctrinated into this “tradition” was calculated to terrify us into shape. It seems to be part of the system here. (At our first Vespers, we were told in the most positive and persuasively preachers-can-be-OK-guys-too terms, that the coming years would be “the worst of your lives.”) We were treated to a detailed and carefully enumerated account of what would happen to us if we were guilty of an honor offense—point after point was read in appropriately judicially grim tones, telling us just how useless it would be to continue living if we were dismissed from this school, just how painful and horrible it would be to face family, friends, life itself under any conditions. There was no mention of extenuating circumstances, only a rigid, monolithic Threat. Many of us left that assembly thinking: Just what is Davidson College that it should have the power of God Almighty to wreck an entire life by a simple, surgically private amputation of a man’s future?

Two: Some of the letters disagreeing with Mr. Papra either insinuated or openly stated that he had no right to speak out or take the initiative. Who, pray, does? The act of writing that letter demonstrates that this year's Freshman class may not be as susceptible to the Davidson System as previous ones have been. The “Davidson Gentleman” does not exist; he is a myth. Thank God... . But what represents him? I believe I can speak from more than “three weeks’ experience” for I have lived in Charlotte my entire life and have seen these specimens many times. They fill our upper middle class executive positions, they are smart, (but not too intelligent), they teach our Presbyterian Sunday school classes, they dress nicely, they are Clean-Cut, and for the most part they are hopeless mediocrities.

The secondary importance of Mr. Papra’s letter is that it may foretell the advent of a current of fresh air, circulating through the rusty verbal ivy of Davidson. It represents an open voice of dissatisfaction. Bob Stone has already intimated that this class shows too much spirit sometimes. Might this not be translated that we are not above speaking out when we feelHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

like it? Does not Mr. Papra’s letter show that some members of the Freshman class are not going to let themselves be made into symbols of a ragged concept of “well-rounded,” “liberal (?)” education? But perhaps it does not—indeed already the stamp of lukewarm similarity may be seen on the faces of some who were, a few months ago, almost individuals. Yes, it may be “unfortunate that one who has been here only three weeks” speaks out violently against what he considers, rightly, to be awkward, unjust, and sadly in need of reform and clarification. But how much more unfortunate that those who have been here three years speak out so seldom. And finally, how outright tragic, that most of those who leave this school as graduates, rarely speak out about anything whatever... Maybe not this time.

William R. Trotter

Ivey

Dear Editor:

I am deeply concerned with the health of the Davidson student body. Observing the sudden siege of post-nasal drainage and throat congestion at Sunday’s vespers, one would conclude either that we're a very sick group, or that there are certain students here who are quite open with their feelings about the length of time a speaker should use. I was, of course, delighted to find that there are those among us who know how to tell time. Yet I was equally as disappointed at their very crude manner of displaying this ability. Although I seriously doubt that ten extra minutes of vespers would tend to make any of us “over-religioned,” I’m sure that there is a more tactful way of controlling the length of vespers. Having been a Davidson “Gentleman” only four weeks, I am quite wary of expressing my candid opinions in THE DAVIDSONIAN, for fear of starting a schoolwide controversy over vesper speakers, or something. Therefore, since I cannot comfortably assert the above views, I will at least say that I think the Smith Brothers could’ve made a killing here Sunday night. Perhaps we can schedule them for next year...?

Bob Ivey

Stathatos

Dear Editor:

I would like to express my personal opinion—a little bit late, I know—regarding the editorial “Wandering in the Wilderness” and especially the following paragraph:

Foreign students naturally want to become acquainted with all aspects of American life, not just Chambers and their dormitories. They cannot be of service to us unless they have ample time to participate in our activities, lead our discussions or just sit down over a cup of coffee.

No doubt that we do want to get acquainted with American life—after all that is one provision of the Richardson Scholarship Program—but it is quite impossible for us to know all aspects of American life in one year's time. Furthermore, “Chambers and dormitories” are a piece of American life, aren't they? Isn’t the college life interesting? On the other hand, I dare say that the phrase “... they cannot be of service to us...” sounds quite chauvinistic, to such an extent that one is liable to draw the conclusion that there is absolutely no concern for us and our future. Before I came here I was aware of what I was expected to do. I do want to get acquainted with American life—not merely to be of service to you but to be of service to me and my country, too—but I don't want to get behind in my courses. I haven’t come here for the sheer fun of it. I interrupted my studies for something better. I came with the double purpose to study and at the same time get acquainted with this country, its people and their way of thinking and living. I expect this year to be profitable to me in many ways. It is quite true that I—any of us, I think—meet with lots of difficulties so that I am absolutely doubtful about the final results. But at least I will try to realize the expectations based on me. How can I get acquainted with your educational system if I am not a student?

Costas Stathatos

Student Doubts Chances For German Reunification

Editor’s Note: The following is the first of a series of student political commentaries in cooperation with the International Relations Club. Kirby studied last year at the Free University of Berlin.

BY LEE KIRBY

The present Berlin situation has forced the West to evaluate once again the whole German problem, including the cries for reunification heard from both the German Federal Republic and the German Democratic Republic. Most Germans in both these countries give at least token expression to the belief that a permanent solution to Berlin’s division can be found only in a peaceful and permanent union of the two German nations. We are forced to ask ourselves if such a union is now possible in peace. There can be no union if the German people and the two German governments do not want union. There can be no peaceful union if Germany’s World War II enemies are opposed to it. The first obstacle to reunification is the almost neurotic fear of Germany which the peoples of Western Europe as well as the eastern Europeans harbor. It was this fear which divided Germany in 1945. The English, French, Dutch, Scandinavians, and Slavs have forgotten two world wars. We must assume that the grassroots population of these countries will not favor German reunification for a long time. We can say that most Germans want reunification. It is only natural. Many refugees would welcome the opportunity to return to their place of birth, families could be reunited, Germany could once again be a proud nation undivided. There are, however, undercurrents of dissension. Almost all of German Catholicism lies in West Germany where Catholics number about 43% of the population and control the Christian Democratic Union (CDU), the political party which has been in power since the foundation of the Federal Republic. East Germany is almost entirely made up of Protestants and Communists. If the two nations were united, Protestants would outnumber Catholics almost two to one. Feeling runs between Catholic and Protestant about like that between Southerner and Yankee here. Catholic Adenauer has been known to refer to Protestant Berlin as the “City of Heathens.” His near-slanderous reference to Socialist Willi Brandt’s birth outside Christian wedlock is now famous. The rightist-Catholic CDU has, therefore, a vested interest in the division of Germany, since unification with the Protestant and traditionally “left” section of Germany would mean the loss of its present power. The West Germans are proud of their startling economic recovery since the war. Many of them resent the prospects of another period of hardship to put East Germany on its feet after the proposed reunification. Bearing one of the world’s heaviest tax loads, the West German is tempted to gripe about such a large part of his taxes going to aid refugees from the East, many of whom are suspected of seeking only a soft life in western prosperity. On the other hand, many East Germans dislike being referred to as “our poor brothers across the borders.” They are proud of their own more limited recovery and, in part, idealistic about the prospects of building a Socialist state in the homeland of Marx and Engels. They point to the number of former Nazi industrialists, judges, and government officials still in power in West Germany. Many fear that reunification will endanger the success of their Socialist experiment. There is, then, severe opposition to German unity in Europe and even within Germany itself. This article will be continued next week.

1958-59 STUDENT COUNCIL

Trask Cites Statement About Court Function

BY GEORGE TRASK

Student Body President

I am quoting below a statement by the 1958-59 Student Council which I believe best states the function of the Honor Court in its relation to the Honor System and the Student Body Regulations. When this statement was made the functions of our present Honor Court were carried out by the Student Council. However, it was this 1958-59 Student Council which conceived the Honor Court and sponsored its acceptance by the student body. I therefore feel that this statement expresses the original intentions of the Honor Court, and I further feel that these intentions have not changed during the ensuing years. The statement reads as follows:

“We, the Student Council of 1958-59, make the following affirmation: having taken as our oath of office a pledge to uphold the honor system and the student body regulations, we do now re-express our intention to do so.

“Further, we believe firmly in the spirit of these laws and, though not at the expense of neglecting a continual and critical examination of them, do plan to maintain this spirit.

“We feel that the letter of the law is robbed of its meaning without the spirit. Specifically, we shall endeavor to abide by the innermost convictions of conscience and to cease the rationalization, justification, and gentle winking that often characterize us as a body insofar as is humanly possible.

“We are able to make this statement only for ourselves; however, just as the letter of the law is dead without the spirit of the law, so we feel is the conviction of the Student Council empty without the accompanying and coexistent conviction of the Student Body.

“Therefore, we make appeal to you that you seek to grasp the spirit of these regulations to which we have subjected ourselves and join with us in striving for a positive rather than a negative interpretation of them.

“If you do not feel so inclined, we very strongly urge that you petition for the liberalization of any of these laws by which our conduct is now guided.

“We shall interpret a failure to petition as a positive vote of confidence for the stand which the council has taken and as expression of a desire to enforce the present regulations.”

There has been no petition.