PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Music Department Gives Aid To Talent

The college Music Department is making available several awards for present and future students at Davidson. These awards will run
from $100 to $600 per year and are renewable. To qualify, one must be a student at the present time
or must be accepted for admission. Donald Plott, head of the department, said the grants are designed to encourage musically
talented students to apply to Davidson. Before the new program, only five music scholarships were awarded, including the Theodore Presser
Scholarship, given by the Presser Foundation in Philadelphia. It is estimated that seven or eight will be given next year,
with the majority going to incoming freshmen. First consideration will be given to music majors, but it is not essential
that a student be a music major to be eligible, Plott explained. Full information on the program may be obtained
from him.

Symphony Orchestra To Play Here Tuesday

The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Henry Janiec will make its third appearance at Davidson College when it
plays at 8:15 p.m., Tuesday, February 21, as a part of the current Artist Series. Robert McDonald, young pianist from
South Carolina, will be soloist with the orchestra in Schumann's ‘Concerto in A minor.” The Charlotte Symphony was born in
the depression years. Drawing musicians from diverse occupations, the orchestra was and is made up of teachers, lawyers, doctors, professional
musicians, housewives, and students. This season marks the 29th consecutive year of performances. Guillermo S. De Roxolo, Guy Hutchins, James
Christian Pfohl all held the baton over the years. Though its trials have been numerous and severe, the Charlotte Symphony
has never missed a concert season. Many renowned artists have appeared with it. Henry Janiec, the present conductor, will return
for his third year as music director. At Davidson, the orchestra will play Schubert's “Fifth Symphony,” the Prelude to Hansel
und Gretel by Humperdinck, and “Swan Lake.”

Vespers Features Methodist Minister

Dr. Charles C. Noble will deliver the sermon at the vespers service this Sunday, Feb. 19, in the Davidson College
Church. Dr. Noble is a graduate of William College and Union Seminary in New York. He is an ordained Methodist
minister and served congregations in New York and Connecticut until 1945. At that time he became dean of the chapel
at Syracuse University. He still holds this position. He is the founder and first president of the National Association of
College and University Chaplains and a former member of the International Council of the YMCA.

Judicial Board Debate Closes In Stalemate

The Student Council has ended in a stalemate after several weeks of debate and discussion about the proposed Judicial Board.
Meeting twice this week, the council decided that it was so evenly divided on the issue it would invite faculty
members to its meeting next Monday night in a further attempt to reach a satisfactory solution. Monday night the council
rescinded its action to create a Judicial Board in the new constitution by a vote of five to six after
a previous vote, five to six also, had voted down a proposal to table any action on the board.

TIE VOTE

Meeting during Wednesday's chapel period, the council discussed the question of requiring council members to take an oath making them
honor bound to uphold the Student Body Regulations. The vote on this question ended in a tie. These two issues
are closely related, as President Henry Shue pointed out, in that the new proposals for a Judicial Board and no
oath are part of a new concept of honor. Under this new concept, only violations of the Honor System are
to be tried by the Honor Court, while Student Body Regulations violators are to be tried by the lesser Judicial
Board. Proponents of this plan say that it recognizes the current attitude toward the Honor System among students and offers
a way to restore the sense of honor. Those proposing this measure agree on the problem but do not feel
that the new system will improve the situation, and may serve to seriously upset the student government. Several hours of
council time have been devoted to the discussion of this issue and at least three votes have been taken. This
coming Monday night the council hopes to reach a final decision on the board and the oath.

94 Senior Cadets Get Assignments

Davidson's 94 MS IV cadets have received their branch assignments for active duty, Capt. David Hampton of the ROTC cadre
reported this week. They will be notified later of their tours of duty. Earlier, the seniors had indicated their first
three branch choices. A total of 56 percent received their first choice; 19 percent their second preference; and the remaining
25 percent were assigned to their third listed branch. Artillery drew the largest number of Davidson men, 31. Other branches
with large numbers assigned were medical, infantry, and military police, six. The remaining seniors will join a total of nine
other branches.

Vagabonds Present Awards For Student, Faculty Acting

Awards were presented for work in drama this semester at a Wednesday night party celebrating the merger of the Red
and Black Masquers and Vagabonds. New members of Alpha Psi Omega, national honor society in college dramatics, were also pledged
Wednesday night. Initiation of the new members will be in about two weeks. Mrs. Lucy Johnston was chosen as the
best leading actress for her performance in THE MATCHMAKER and Walter Bost was chosen as the best actor in a
leading role for his performance in ST. JOAN. Mrs. Lietta Marrotte was selected as the best supporting actress, Dr. Sam
Maloney was chosen as the best faculty actor, and Don Stowell was selected as the best student actor in a
supporting role (all for performances in THE MATCHMAKER).

CAPTURES AWARDS

The Matchmaker captured all the technical awards (for sets, lights, stage management, props, and make-up) except for a tie with
ST. JOAN in costumes. These awards were voted on by those who have worked in Vagabond productions this year. The
votes were pro-rated in terms of the ratio of the number of voters who had seen the various plays.

ALPHA PSI OMEGA

The new members of Alpha Psi Omega are seniors: Hansford Epes, Tom Covington, Bob Denham; juniors: Walter Bost, Bob Phillips,
Buddy Brauch, and Bill Pruitt; sophomores: Tom Wright, Pat Douglas, and Ben Cole; and freshman: Frank Gohike. The Vagabonds are
sponsoring a play in the North Carolina one-act play contest. Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz said that the play to be
entered in the contest will be selected from a group of one-act plays which will be presented here as the
seventh production under the subscriber plan.

REGIONAL CONTEST

Because the dates of the regional contest conflict with the Male Chorus’ annual trip, key actors in previous Vagabonds’ one-act
plays will not be able to participate in the contest. Therefore, a play tournament of mostly new plays will decide
the play entered for Davidson. The Vagabonds are eager for any group—fraternities, both social and honorary, English classes, etc.—to enter
a play. Goodykoontz stated that one fraternity had already accepted and that others will probably enter. The plays must be
under 30 minutes in length and ready by early March.

NEW STUDENT POLICY!

STARTING THIS WEEK ALL STUDENTS WILL BE ADMITTED FOR 50c WITH THIS COUPON... A new Coupon will be issued each
week

Members of the Junior Class will not be required to report their attendance at Vespers this Sunday.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1961

Gay Carnival In Panama Is “Last Fling Before Easter

By TONY DIAZ Davidsonian Feature Writer

Editor's Note: The writer came to Davidson in 1958 from Panama as a Richardson Scholar and is now a junior.
The history of Carnival in Panama dates back to 1673 with the beginning of a brave new city. Today with
the traditions of nearly three centuries behind her, FRANK PORTER GRAHAM, U.N. mediator between Pakistan and India, speaks with DAVIDSONIAN
staff members after his appearance in assembly last Tuesday. Speaking on the moral force of the United Nations, Graham pointed
out the need for support of the U.N.’s policy.

Graham Expresses Faith In Today’s College Man

By BOB MOORE DavidsonianAssociate Editor

“I don’t find that there is a lack of commitment among college students today,” said Dr. Frank P. Graham. Dr.
Graham sat down and folded his hands. “I can give you an example of student commitment. Al Lowenstein, a Yale
student, petitioned the United Nations for an African tribe after his trip to Africa.

“Al’s action has helped focus attention on Southwest Africa and he is now appearing before the World Court. I often
see student commitment like this as a member of the United States delegation to the U.N.

“The backwash of the McCarthy era did have some adverse effect upon young people joining good causes; this is passing
away.

“I never have thought that this was the lost or the scared generation. I read THE DAVIDSONIAN last night—that didn’t
sound like the scared generation to me.

Trustees Open (Continued From Page One)

members have no doubt done a great deal of thinking on this matter; probably a great many are in a
state of transition of thought on it.”

"Take your own Rhodes Scholar at Davidson who has taken some stands of conscience. You haven’t turned your back on
him; you elected him president of the student body.”

We asked Dr. Graham if he had seen evidence of increasing emphasis on materialism among college students when he was
president of the University of North Carolina and now in his visits to different colleges.

“There is some materialism,” he replied. “But remember that victories are never completely won. You have to keep up the
struggle. Jefferson made his stand; Jackson made his stand; so did Wilson and Roosevelt. Democracy is never finished business, the
struggle is always eternal.

“You've got a great president here at Davidson College who stands for freedom. He hasn't tried to censor your newspaper,
has he?”

We asked the white-haired man what he thought was the greatest need among college men today.

“Young men need to have strong spiritual resources, real commitments, thorough study, and hard work. They need religious commitment about
human brotherhood and American freedom. They should enter the struggle to end the arms race and make a stronger United
Nations for peace—upon which depends the survival of the human race.

“If I didn't believe in the youth of today I'd give up.”

Panama City celebrates the four-day pre-Lenten period with a flair all of her own. Like the Rio de Janeiro Carnival,
like the Mardi Gras in New Orleans, Carnival in Panama is a last fling of gaiety before the forty quiet
days preceding Easter.

In the sophisticated capital the streets are filled with people wearing the traditional costumes: the delicately embroidered flounces of the
“pollera,” the wide cotton shirt of the “montuna” or “tumba hombre” (knock the man down!), the homespun fringed shirt and
cotton pants of the “montuno.”

FEVERISH ENTHUSIASM

Carnival season usually begins right after Christmas when the private clubs and groups post nominations for their queens. Competition and
rivalry run high, and private parties as well as parties at the clubs keep the general enthusiasm at fever pitch.

By the Saturday before Ash Wednesday carnival is in full swing. These carnivals have been “official” (government sponsored) since 1910,
so that night the official queen is crowned in an impressive public ceremony, and there begins a four-day festival during
which many people boast that they do not sleep at all.

COSTUMED REVELERS

At almost all hours of day or night the streets are filled with open cars or trucks, each bearing a
load of costumed revelers. Carriages, relics of the canal construction days and drawn by horses looking old and tired enough
to be of the same vintage, provide leisurely transportation for tourists and residents alike.

As the pale dawn of Ash Wednesday creeps over Panama City the last of the carnival rites is performed, the
mock-solemn “burial of the fish” signifying that carnival is over, and the sober period of Lent begins.

ECHO LINGERS

In the streets there still lingers for a while the echo of carnival, the reverberation of a lilting song, the
tap of dancing feet. On the terrace of the Union Club, where the flags hang motionless in the morning sunlight,
the ghost of the gay assemblage seems to move silently about the floor. Again, in the imagination, the flute and
the drum beat their rhythm, again there is a graceful invitation, the polite flirtation of the dance of the “tamborito,”
the quick shuffle and swinging hips of the “cumbia.” Still, there lingers the memory of laughing faces, sparkling eyes and
curving lips.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Martin Names (Continued From Page One)

passed the general examination for the PhD degree. He is currently completing a dissertation on Johann Christian Gunther. He holds
membership in Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. Mrs. Winkler is the former Ellen Morrow of Uniontown, Pa. They
have two children: son John, age 5, and daughter Laura Ann, born February 2. Both professors will move their families
to Davidson during the summer.

Uris Arrives (Continued From Page One)

Both men will be eating in fraternity houses for three meals Thursday. Bob Denham has charge of arranging the schedule
with fraternity houses for these meals.

MORE STUDENT CONTACT

Richards agreed that “there is room for improvement” in student-trustee contact. He said that “it is desirable for trustees to
know the mind of students and for students to know the mind of the trustees. These men are good men,
reasonable, and desire to know the facts.”

The board president was asked if something like the alumni college, held every spring for several days, “just for trustees,”
was practical. “I don't see why it shouldn't be so,” said Richards. He felt most trustees would be willing to
take a couple of days to attend classes, some extra-curricular activities, and even stay in the dormitories.

After Vespers

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Brown
Kelton
J. G. Martin
Daggy
Lilly
Scott
Fleming
Lloyd
Stroud
Gable
Marrotte
Tucker
Griffin
Watts

Open Houses

PHONE 596-0115

They PEDDLE Their Looks... Their Talents... Themselves! —plus— LONELY SEX Sun. - Mon. - Tues. - Wed. 9th - 20th
- 21st - 22nd FOX DRIVE-IN THEATRE

A Retreat to a NUDIST CAMP in a Secluded Paradise! Starts Thursday 23rd

—STUDENT COUPON— 50c and this COUPON will admit any students to the DRIVE-IN THEATRE From—Feb. 16th to—Feb. 23rd!

“GIVE A MAN A TOUGH JOB AND A CHANCE TO GO SOMEWHERE... AND HE'LL BREAK HIS NECK TO DO IT”

In 1958 when Bill Ebben was only a few months away from his engineering degree at the University of Detroit,
he was in touch with 15 prospective employers. He chose the Michigan Bell Telephone Company because: “This company offered the
kind of engineering management opportunity I wanted—and they weren’t kidding.”

One of Bill’s first assignments was a survey of Central District to find out how long available building space could
accommodate the switching equipment required by rapid telephone growth. “I wasn’t given any instruction,” Bill says, “I was just told
to do the job.” So Bill did it. His report became the guide for planning and budgeting future construction.

On his next move, Bill proved he could handle supervisory responsibility. He was sent to head up a group of
seven engineers to design a new long distance switching center for Saginaw, Michigan—a $4,000,000 engineering project.

Today, Bill is on the staff of Michigan Bell's Program Engineer. He’s working on a system for mechanized control of
telephone construction costs. How does Bill feel about his job? “Give a man a tough job and a chance to
go somewhere—and he'll break his neck to do it. Of course, I don’t think I’m going to be running the
business next year—but I’m getting every opportunity to hit the top. You don’t worry about opportunity here—you worry about whether
you're as big as the job.”

If you're a man like Bill Ebben, a man who can size up a job, figure out what needs to
be done, and then do it—then you should get in touch with one of the Bell Companies. Visit your Placement
Office for literature and additional information.

“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive and imaginative men we
can possibly find.” Frederick R. Kappel, President American Telephone & Telegraph Co. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
