LACY DEPLORES STUDENT THIEVERY (See Page Two) VOL. XLIX

COURT DEFINES PLEDGE
Faculty Accepts Honor Statement
By KNOX ABERNETHY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The faculty unanimously accepted an Honor Court statement of policy concerning pledged work presented by Scott Lacy, chairman of the
Honor Court, and Harrison Wellford, a member of the Judicial Committee, at the regular faculty meeting Tuesday afternoon. The report
was referred to study and discussion at the next faculty meeting.

The resolution presented to the faculty the problems of “diving,” “spotting,” and disclosing the test to students of other sections.

FACULTY CONCERNED
Faculty members generally expressed concern for the problem but were pleased by the court's action. Professor R. R. Bernard, head
of the Mathematics Department, stated that he was delighted that the faculty had seen the problem “since it is undoubtedly
partly our fault.”

The report from the Honor Court to the faculty was originally drawn up by Wellford with Lacy’s assistance and was
recently approved by ODK and the Honor Court. It is part of the court’s present effort to promote a better
spirit of honor at Davidson, an issue which was primarily aroused by the Student Council’s recommendation that the court start
work with the faculty in defining more clearly the meaning of pledged work and the offenses which the honor system
covers.

CLARIFIES STAND
“In light of practices currently in evidence among the student body,” the report states, “the Honor Court, feeling that these
practices are encroachments on the Honor System, would like to clarify its interpretation of the section of the Student Body
Constitution relating to them.”

Under the jurisdiction conferred upon it as an upholder of the pledge defined in Art. 9, Sec. 6 of the
Constitution, the Honor Court “wishes to make clear that the following practices are violating the Honor System: (1) the taking
of a test from a classroom after the professor has specifically stipulated that the test is not to leave the
classroom. (2) the disclosure of a test given in one class section to students of another section of the class,
or to students who are to make up the same test when the professor of the class sections has specifically
stated that there is to be no disclosure of tests between sections or to persons taking make-ups. (3) the use
of any test acquired or disclosed in the above manners by any student in preparation for a testing period.”

PROMOTE AWARENESS
The next five paragraphs of the report discuss misconceptions held by the student body concerning the meaning of pledged work,
explain the practice of “diving” and use of old writs and reviews as “spots,” then make recommendations to (Continued on
Back Page)

Council Designates New Freshman Court
The Student Council met last Monday night to elect the members of the new Freshman Court, as well as settle
some other issues. Elected to the court were rising seniors D. G. Martin, R. Henry Moore, and James Davis; rising
juniors Larry Leafer and Danny Carrell; and rising sophomores Wiley Horne and Howard Arbuckle. These men will serve under the
recently elected Freshman Advisor, Bob Stone.

The council suggested that the new Freshman Regulations, which had recently been drawn up, be made a by-law, and therefore
not subject to change by future councils with a simple majority; but this motion failed to pass. These regulations are
basically the same as those of years past. However, the “walking on grass” clause has been omitted, and a rule
providing for nameplates on doors in the dorms added.

“We think now that there is a reasonable purpose for all the regulations,” president Henry Shue said. He indicated that,
in correlation with the spirit of the new court, all regulations could be thought of as being in the good
interests of the freshmen, and the omission of chapel proceedings would eliminate any attempts at embarrassment. He further said, “The
success of the new system will depend on the personalities of the men on the court.”

The inauguration of the new council will take place in chapel on Monday. Hutton Barron and Jack Taylor were elected
as the two seniors to remain on the council with Shue for the rest of the year. Ken Kelly, the
new First Vice-president, was selected to serve as acting President of the Student Council for the rest of this semester
due to the absence of George Trask.

It was suggested that a by-law be passed providing that all motions in the future be tabled for a week
before voting. This would serve to eliminate hasty decisions on the part of the council, and also would provide the
student body an opportunity to discuss the new legislature with the council members. This did not come to a vote,
since the council decided it was better to wait until next year on this issue.

By BILL RUTH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

ROTC Load
The freshman ROTC requirement will be reduced to one hour of classroom study and a one-hour drill period next year.
Sophomore requirements will remain at two classroom hours.

In a meeting last Tuesday, the faculty decided to reduce the freshman requirement to one classroom hour with the stipulation
that an additional hour of some other academic subject approved by the ROTC Department be substituted. This course need not
be taken during the freshman year but may be put off until a later time.

Freshmen will now attend ROTC one day a week each semester. This will give them a total of two hours
credit for the entire year. They will also be attending drill each semester. The course change was recommended by the
ROTC Department, hoping to lighten the heavy schedule imposed on freshmen. It follows changes in the program for Advanced ROTC.

Friday To Speak At Commencement
William C. Friday, president of the Consolidated University of North Carolina, will deliver the commencement address to the class of
1961 at 4 p.m. Sunday afternoon, May 28, in Chambers Auditorium. The baccalaureate service will take place that morning in
the College Church.

Verner Stanley, president of the Senior Class, announced this week that no Class Day exercises will be held this year.
These exercises, which featured humorous speeches by a mock valedictorian and salutatorian, will be replaced by an

DR. LISTON POPE
Phi Bete Sponsors
Divinity Dean's Visit
Dr. Liston Pope, Dean of the Yale Divinity School, will be on campus next Thursday. He will speak in chapel
and again Thursday night in the Union. The topics of his talks will be announced later.

Pope, sponsored by Phi Beta Kappa, will be available for conferences Friday and will possibly visit classes. Formerly associate pastor
of the Wesley Memorial Church in High Point, N. C., before joining the Yale faculty in 1938, he became the
Stark Professor of Social Ethics there in 1947.

Dr. Pope is a member of the executive committee of the World Council of Churches and is chairman of the
executive committee of the American Association of Theological Schools. He serves on the National Council on Religion in Higher Education
and is also the director of the Rockefeller Brothers Theological Fellowship Program.

In 1949 Pope was a Rosenwald Fellow and Phelps-Stokes Visitor to Africa. Pope is the author of Millhands and Preachers
and The Kingdom Beyond Caste and has edited Labor's Relation to Church and Community.

Extra $75 Deposit Due July 1
All students returning to Davidson next year must pay an extra $75 tuition deposit by July 1, M. W. McGill,
college bursar, announced to THE DAVIDSONIAN today. This fee is in addition to the $25 deposit paid last month.

“This system of payment is designed to help assure the attendance of those students who have indicated they will attend
Davidson, and the payment will not be refunded in the event the student withdraws between July 1 and the opening
of college,” McGill explained.

The college has been requiring a $100 deposit from applicants accepted for the next year’s freshmen class, but has previously
required only $25 from present students. McGill stressed this is not an additional cost as students will pay $100 less
when registering in September.

McGill also announced an increase in the cafeteria board fee from $375 to $400 per year. “The present rate has
been in effect for more than three years during which time the cost of food, labor and other expenses has
risen sharply,” he said.

McGill indicated the increased tuition deposit is largely because of the rooming situation. The $25 fee no longer assures a
definite enough knowledge of the number of students returning, with the result that student openings are not filled.Informal program now
being planned by senior Ben Sparks. The formal commencement exercises will be preceded by the traditional processions of seniors and
faculty in full academic regalia. Stanley will present the class gift to President D. G. Martin during the graduation exercises.
Following the commencement program Sunday afternoon, the seniors will march to the flagpole for the traditional lowering of the class
flag.

No plans have been made to change the sophomore requirements from the present two classroom hours and one hour drill
each week. The faculty also decided to offer a seminar in Russian studies. This course will be taught by Andrei
Lobanov-Rostovsky, visiting professor from the University of Michigan. He is being brought to Davidson next year under the sponsorship of
the John Hay Whitney Foundation and will also teach courses in Russian history and elementary Russian.

The English Department will offer a course in dramatic literature under the direction of Drama Department head. In addition to
this survey course in drama, Sneden will direct all dramatic activities in conjunction with the new Cunningham Music and Fine
Arts Building. The faculty members participating in the planned, integrated humanities course were also announced. Prof. Daniel Rhodes will serve
as chairman of the committee which includes Professors Abernethy, Polley, Labban, McGeachy, and Dr. Richard C. Cole, recently named professor
of English. Instructors for the second year of this course, which will begin in September 1963, have not yet been
named.

Otts Lecture Series Brings Dr. Joseph Sittler Sunday

Dr. Joseph Sittler, Professor of Theology at the University of Chicago, will deliver the last speech in the Otts Lecture
Series on Tuesday, April 18. While at Davidson, he will also conduct a YMCA forum, preach in vespers, and speak
in chapel. For his Otts Lecture, Sittler will speak on "Violence and Meaning." The lecture will be held at 7:30
p.m., on April 18, in Lingle Chapel. "God Is No Gentleman" will be the topic for his vespers sermon Sunday
night. Dr. Sittler will speak in chapel on Monday. The chapel speech will be followed by informal discussion and coffee
in the Union. He will also take part in a Y-sponsored forum in the Union Ballroom at 8:15 Monday night.

Sittler holds degrees from Wittenberg College, Hamma Divinity School, and Wagner College. He has taken graduate study at Oberlin, University
of Chicago, Western Reserve, and the University of Heidelberg. He has served as president of the American Theological Society, theology
professor at Chicago Divinity School, and pastor of an Ohio church. He has been a delegate to such meetings as
the World Council of Churches, the Ecumenical Conference on Faith and Order, and The Lutheran World Federation. His books include
Doctrine of the Word and Structure of Christian Ethics.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1961 RED AND BLACK SCRIMMAGE TOMORROW (See Page Three) NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

Reynolds Lectures

Shapley’s Visit Marks End Of Initial Series

Theologian and Philosopher Paul J. Tillich and Dr. Henri Peyre, Sterling Professor of French at Yale and President of the
Modern Language Association of America, will be the first two Reynolds Lecturers for next year, Dean Frontis W. Johnston announced
today. There will be at least three other distinguished men of different fields brought to the campus next year as
part of the Reynolds Lectures. The series was established at the beginning of this year by a grant from the
Reynolds family.

SHAPLEY COMPLETES

Dr. Harlow Shapley’s visit to Davidson this week completed the lecture series for this year. The other two men brought
here earlier were Archibald MacLeish and Arnold Toynbee. Tillich will be on campus November 16-18. Born in Prussia, Tillich is
now a professor at Harvard, after having taught at Union Theological Seminary in New York for 22 years. He is
best known for his books The Protestant Era, Systematic Theology, and The Courage To Be. Peyre, born in Paris in
1901, will be at Davidson October 23-24. He is the author of numerous books and articles on modern French literature,
French classicism, and comparative literature.

‘MEN OUTSTANDING’

When asked to comment on this year’s Reynolds series, Johnston said, “In this first year, the men have been outstanding.”
He believed the series had made a successful beginning and the program was a “very worthwhile thing.” Dr. Shapley delivered
the third of the Reynolds Lectures Monday night on “Galaxies and Men.” In assembly Tuesday, Shapley talked on “Cosmic Evolution.”
He also participated in a bull session Tuesday afternoon at Pi Kappa Alpha house. Johnston commented that the “bull sessions
have been very good, and perhaps more important than the formal lectures” because of the first-hand contact the students get
with these men. Johnston said that in presenting the program, Davidson has fulfilled one of the vital functions of the
liberal arts college, which is to enrich the community with cultural offerings. In summing up, Dean Johnston said, “It will
be very difficult to duplicate this year’s program.”

IFC Adds D Club Foolies, Collegians To Frolics Fest

Hank Ballard and the Midnighters and the Collegians of East Carolina will play for Spring Frolics, April 21 and 22.
Mrs. J. B. Moore announced that Belk and Richardson Dormitories will be open for dates after 3 p.m. on Friday.
Present occupants of these dorms may sign for rooms on Monday and anyone else may sign up after drill on
Tuesday. Girls must be out of the dorms by 2:30 p.m., Sunday.

Friday afternoon there will be a tennis match with Cincinnati here at Davidson. At 7 p.m. that night the D
Club will present a talent and variety show, the D Club Foolies. Students will have to show their dance tickets
at the door. From 8 to 12 the Midnighters will play for the dance in the gymnasium. Several years ago
the Midnighters recorded many top rhythm and blues records such as “Sexy Ways,” “Work with Me Annie,” and “Switchie Witchie
Tichie.” Recently, featuring Hank Ballard, they have made the best seller charts with “Finger Poppin’ Time,” “The Twist,” and “Let's
Go, Let's Go, Let's Go.” There will not be a concert Saturday afternoon. At 8 p.m. Saturday, the Collegians from
East Carolina will play. The Collegians will feature Betty Lane Evans, Miss North Carolina of 1958, on vocals. The dance
will end at midnight.

Easy-Going Millner Ran Paper His Way

By DON SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Associate Editor

In his last DAVIDSONIAN as Editor, John Aitken Sneden, Jr. pictured himself in a cartoon as a pair of crossed
eyes, ready to seek refuge at the Happy Hills Rest Home. “I guess that’s the last of those damn liberals,”
someone is saying as Sneden and his staff are locked up.

Maybe his words sound different in print, but actually Sneden's an easy-going, quiet sort of guy. For example, over the
spring holidays, while Florida beaches were crowded with the country’s collegians, Sneden and a couple of others took off for
a few quiet days of fishing in the Okefenokee.

Most of Sneden's staff remembers, not the flaming words he used against the Trustees, the IFC, or Sophomore Rush. They
remember more run-of-the-mill things. “Godwin, your page was full of typographical errors this week — I liked your layout.” “Saunders,
your back page looked pretty good, but put the Student Council story on the front page next time.” “Jordan, you
didn’t get all the extra adjectives out of Herb’s blurb about the Artists Series.”

From first page to last, though, this was always Sneden's paper. He not only wrote editorials; he usually did the
cartoon, at least one news story, often wound up taking most of the pictures, helped with layout on all four
pages, wrote heads, and even took over as proofreader. Ask him sometime why at midnight every Wednesday he'd drive to
a dark farmhouse outside of Cornelius so THE DAVIDSONIAN could run pictures in its pages. Or ask him about the
wild rides to Charlotte or Mooresville, to pick up the photographic cuts while the press here in town was waiting
to roll.

Yet with all these goings-on, Sneden squeezed in some study time on his major, and found time to court (and
get engaged to) one of the cutest school teachers any high school student ever saw. Next year Sneden goes into
the big time — though in a small way. He'll start work for The Charlotte Observer this summer as a
general staff writer and reporter. After this summer, perhaps the Army will get him.

The new staff, with four or five men now filling Sneden's many positions, will remember his devotion to the paper.
And, as all of us have said more than once, “Sneden's way was the best.”

JOHN AITKEN SNEDEN, JR., OUTGOING editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, rocks back and props his feet on the desk, as he
enjoys a new sense of freedom in the Davidsonian office. (Davidsonian Photo by Wyche)
