FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sideline Comments
By STEVE CLARK

A BLOW TO BASKETBALL

The recent basketball scandal involving some of the nation’s colleges was a tremendous blow to basketball coaches and athletes everywhere.
A thorough expose appears in this week’s Illustrated, and insiders tell us there is more to come. One police officer
commented, “Just wait until it all comes out, it'll make 1951 (referring to the scandals that year, when 32 athletes
from seven colleges were involved in 86 fixed games) look like peanuts.”

The thought of watching a fixed game makes us sick. When we go to a basketball game, or any athletic
contest for that matter, we like to think that every contestant is giving it all he’s got.

Naturally, Davidson College is not involved. We think this is worthy of compliment, and it is our sincere wish that
Davidson will never be involved in any such business — no matter how big time we might get.

WHOSE FAULT IS IT

Just whose fault is it when an athlete who loves the game in which God has bestowed him a tremendous
amount of talent, decides to affect the outcome of the game by letting up? Does the answer lie in home
training? Maybe it is the coach's fault. Or possibly the athlete just hasn’t any scruples. Of course, it is impossible
to pin-point any one cause for this heartbreaking tragedy. Most authorities agree, however, that the majority of the blame should
be placed on the fixers. When some slick character sticks a fat check in some college boy’s face, the check
can’t help but look like a good deal for three or four missed field goals.

Coach ‘Lefty’ Driesell jokingly commented this week, “That’s why we lost so many close games. My boys were shaving points.”
He laughed, and continued on a more serious note, “You can’t blame the boys. Most of them are somewhat poor,
and a thousand dollars looks awfully good to them.

“The player doesn’t actually have to throw the game,” Driesell explained. “All the bookies are interested in is the point
spread, and if a team favored by fifteen points wins by only three or four, they make money.”

LEFTY, A GOOD RECRUITER

Driesell is doing an excellent job recruiting thus far. Every boy he is “rushing” has been an outstanding player in
high school, and, more important, a good student. As Driesell says, “I’m not going after a boy unless he’s a
good student and can get in here.” The young coach had six outstanding boys visiting the campus last weekend. One
was a 6-7 fellow from Kentucky. Many sportswriters and coaches up that way rate him as the best high school
cager in the Blue Grass State this season. He averaged around 27 points a game, and is a sure-fire bet
for All-State when that honor is announced. The word is around that the youngster is interested in Davidson College.

Already signed and headed this way is Tommy White, 6-5, 185-lbs., from Mount Airy, N. C. As a junior, White
had to share the spotlight with Mike Cook, who started for North Carolina’s frosh this year and is expected to
step into York Larese’s shoes next season. This season White had the spotlight all to himself, as Mount Airy went
undefeated for the second straight year to be 3-A champions again. Although not a terrific scorer (13 points a game),
White is a horse off the backboards. He collected 450 during the season, 25 a night in the state tournament.
He was All-Conference, All-county, First team All-State, and All-American.

Big Ten Squad Could Be Tough
By GEORGE PEPPER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College tennis team will face the netmen of Ohio State University here tomorrow afternoon in the season’s third
match. It will be the first time OSU and the ’Cats have mixed on the courts, and the match promises
to be a good one. Co-captain Finley Lee agreed with this and added, “The Big Ten is generally a pretty
strong conference, and out of 20,000 students they ought to have a fairly good team!” The ’Cats themselves are looking
pretty good, according to Lee, with the returning lettermen under pressure from hard-hitting newcomers.

Doug Orr and Lee, team co-captains, hold down the numbers one and two spots, but the remaining four slots are
being hotly contested by seven netters. The squad has a busy schedule for next week, meeting The Citadel at Charleston
on Monday; Michigan State, here Thursday; and Furman, here Friday. The Citadel is considered one of the best in the
conference, with three or four outstanding men coming up from last year's freshman team. Michigan State, another newcomer to the
schedule, should bring an impressive team to the Davidson courts. In addition to Orr and Lee, Nick Cooper, Andy Sherrill,
Bobby Snead, and Stefan Young should round out the top six positions.

Last Saturday Coach Semi Mintz’s squad defeated Pfeiffer 8-1. With the two Pfeiffer victories under their belts, and considering the
amount of practice the team has had, the netmen should fare well in this season’s competition.

Phi Delts, Pi Kapps, ATO's

On April 5, the second meet, two I-F Pace I-F Qualifying Meet

Redmond Receives Most Votes For LF All-Star Team

Inclement weather forced IMAC president Mike Van Doeren to reschedule for this Monday at 4 p.m. This past Monday I-F
tracksters qualified for the following events: the 100-yard dash, the 220-yard dash, the 120-yard low hurdles, the broad jump, the
shot put, and the discus. Those qualifying in the above events joined with all entries in the 440-yard run, the
660-yard run, the three-quarter mile run, and the quarter-mile relay for today’s finals.

Van Doeren announced the LF All-Star basketball team earlier this week. Voting was conducted Tuesday, and when all the ballots
had been counted, Hight Redmond, a KA senior, had received more votes than any other league player. Thus Redmond is
captain for this year’s I-F dream team. He leads a host of good players, which make up one of the
most powerful All-Star contingents in Davidson history.

First team:
F—Ed Hines, 6-2 Jr., SAE
F—Jim Fuller, 6-1 Fr., KS
C—Mike Showalter, 6-4 Jr., SX
G—Hight Redmond, 5-10 Sr., KA
G—Quinton Boyd, 6-0 Sr., Pi Kapp

Second team:
F—Bob Denham, 6-2 Sr., Phi Delt
F—Keith Fraser, 6-3 Soph., Pika
C—Lee Cory, 6-3 Sr., SAE
G—Tommy Hamilton, 5-10 Soph., Beta

Wake Forest The Experts’ RAIN POSTPONES MANY CONTESTS

I-F VOLLEYBALL action continued this week. Here Pika Ray Thomas backhands the ball as KA Tom Green leaps to block.

By JERRY TRAMMELL
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Among the other spring sports that attract attention at Davidson College, baseball is making its yearly return to the campus.
This afternoon the varsity team was scheduled to take on the Hampden-Sydney team at 3 p.m. Yesterday, the diamond men
dropped their second 5-4 decision, this one to Pfeiffer, who scored in the last inning. The Wildcats have one other
game before spring holidays, and that will be a contest here next Thursday with Mercer College.

The Wildcats have been working hard in practice, and the Wildcats will have a busy week next week as they
prepare for the West Virginia game and the road trip.against West Virginia. Although little is known about the opposition, the
Wildcats are expecting a tough game, typical of West Virginia's athletic teams. Gametime is 2 p.m.

Rain Halts Track Meet With Indians; Reset For Tuesday

Though Wednesday’s schedule called for a meet on the local cinders between Catawba and the local trackmen, sloppy weather turned
out to be the only victor. Due to misty rain and overcast skies, the meet was rescheduled for Tuesday, March
28, at 3:30 p.m.

SPRING TRIP

During the spring holidays, the Davidson men will be doing more than just basking in the sun. They have scheduled
a heavy slate of top-notch competition which includes Kentucky and Georgia Southern. On April 3, they meet both Kentucky and
Georgia Southern in a double-header at Collegeboro, Ga. The following day they will meet Georgia Southern again.

FINALS TODAY

In Monday's qualifying meet, the Phi Delts, Pi Kappas, and ATO’s placed more men in the finals than the others.
Meanwhile, volleyball action continued this week. Outside games were called off Tuesday afternoon, but inside competition went on. Wednesday, both
outside and inside action was completed. In Tuesday’s games, the ATO’s stomped the Sig Eps, the SAE’s beat the Sigma
Chis, and the KA’s downed the Pi Kapps. Wednesday's results were as follows: the SAE’s whipped the Sigma Nus, the
ATO’s beat the Pi Kapps, the Kappa Sigs clipped the Sigma Chis, and the KA’s bombed the Pikas. The Phi
Delts edged the Betas, the Phi Gams whipped the Independents, the Pi Kapps beat the Sig Eps, the Kappa Sigs
stomped the Sigma Nus, the ATO’s downed the Pikas, the Betas nipped the Sigma Chis, the KA’s clobbered the Independents,
and the Phi Delts topped the Phi Gams.

Win Was Downfall

Wake Forest’s recent surge in the NCAA tournament was a wonderful thing for Atlantic Coast Conference basketball, so they said.
Go back to December 3, 1960, though, and you'll say it was even better for Southern Conference reputations. That was
the night Davidson College opened its basketball season, and Coach Charles “Lefty” Driesell made his debut as a college coach.
Incidentally, Davidson won the opening game — beat some team named Wake Forest, 65-59. That game caused the basketball “experts”
to throw away the record books and start guessing. But if you think that one made the Southern Conference glow,
think how North State Conference fans felt three nights later when Catawba edged Davidson, 54-52. When that one hit the
papers, the “experts” quit guessing and started flipping their coins. But hold on, this research isn't over yet. Imagine how
the blue-eyed, dark-skinned folks down in eastern North Carolina felt when Pembroke knocked off Catawba sometime later. When the wire
services turned this one loose, the “experts” flipped their coins at the Salvation Army Santa Clauses and retired to the
securities of a steady job.

Stanley Paces Opening Win

By MEL McKENZIE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson golf team will cross clubs again against High Point College at High Point this Wednesday. The linksters are
hoping for a second straight victory. Monday, Davidson opened with a big punch against the same High Pointers. Captain Verner
Stanley, last year’s medalist in the Southern Conference golf tournament, led the ‘Cats to a 19-2 victory. Stanley defeated Stan
Kinney, 2-1, in match play and finished with a 72. The match medalist, Stanley ended the day two strokes under
Kinney. The rest of the team all stroked around 78.

REBUILDING

Suffering from last year's graduation, Coach Tom Scott entered one sophomore and four seniors. In a rebuilding period, Scott is
counting on rookies Haywood Evans, Mims Garland, and Jim Smith for future reference. Stanley-Crute defeated S. Kinney-Morris, 2-1; and Dallas-McPhillips
defeated Beasy-G. Kinney, 3-0.

SHOULD IMPROVE

Scott said this week, “I am pleased with the results. The match was encouraging, but the boys’ scores should improve
as they start playing more.” One of the highlights of the 1961 season is the Greenbrier Invitational Tournament at White
Sulphur Springs, W. Va., April 1-2. The squad will see action there during the Spring holidays. Scott has not yet
decided on a permanent lineup. “Some of the boys, Dallas for one, won't be able to make it up there
because of other commitments,” he said.

1961 D Club Initiates Nineteen Members

The Davidson College D Club initiated nineteen members Wednesday night, President Harold Bynum announced. The following lettermen became members of
the club: Chase Hunter, Larry Leafer, Linton Wray, David Dakin, Bill Jarman, Ben McCoy, Tom Wright, Gordon LeGrand, Bob Scales,
Ken Kelley, Lou Zirkle, and others.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Air Force

Decidedly not. In fact, most executive jobs are on the ground. Of course, all officers may apply for pilot and
navigator training if they meet the eligibility requirements. There will always be a need for piloted aircraft. And it is
foreseeable that in your working lifetime, there will be piloted spacecraft—piloted and navigated by Air Force officers. But right now,
there is also a big future for college-trained Air Force officers on the ground. New and exciting technical jobs are
opening up. Important administrative positions must be filled as World War II officers move into retirement. How can you—a college
student—become an Air Force officer? First, there’s Air Force ROTC. Then for college graduates, men and women in certain fields,
there is Officer Training School. The graduate of its three-month course wins a commission as a second lieutenant. Other ways
are the Navigator Training program, and the Air Force Academy. Some benefits that go with being an Air Force officer:
Starting salary plus allowances compare with the average in equivalent civilian jobs. Then there’s free medical and dental care, thirty-day
vacation, the chance to win graduate degrees at Air Force expense, and liberal retirement provisions. No, Air Force officers do
not need wings to move up. There's plenty doing on the ground. Perhaps you could be one of these young
executives in blue. Ask your local Air Force Recruiter. Or write, Officer Career Information, Dept. SC13, Box 7608, Washington 4,
D.C., if you want further information about the navigator training or Officer Training School programs.

U.S. Air Force

There’s a place for professional achievement on the Aerospace Team.

United States Air Force Ad No. NY 61-3037
Finished 2-6-61 Adset
B&W Ad—5%” x 10”
1525 Senior College Newspapers (Dept. No. SC13)—March 1961
Junior College Newspapers (Dept. JSC13)—March 1961
JOHN & ADAMS, Inc., New York
