FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1961

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

NEXT YEAR'S SCHEDULE

FOUR of the eight games on next year's football schedule are slated to be played on the local gridiron. Besides the usual opener with Catawba (which may be played in Charlotte pending installation of a new lighting system in Richardson Stadium), the Wildcats will play host to William & Mary, Furman, and Richmond. William & Mary will be our Homecoming foe. The same teams that were played this year will be played again next season, but the order of the schedule has been somewhat rearranged.

Tentatively, here is the 1962 football schedule:

Sept. 15 — Catawba, HERE
22 — The Citadel, There
29 — Wofford, There
Oct. 6 — Presbyterian, There
13 — William and Mary, HERE (Homecoming)
20 — VMI, There
27 — Open date
Nov. 3 — Furman, HERE
10 — Richmond, HERE

The 1963 schedule finds Wofford being dropped from the schedule and replaced by Lehigh. Indications are good that a yearly series will continue with Lehigh, a small Pennsylvania school in the Middle Atlantic Conference. Another member of that conference, Lafayette (located in Easton, Pa.), will be played in 1964 and 1965. Also, there is a good possibility that Colgate, an independent Ivy League-type school in Hamilton, N.Y., will be played in '64.

PENNSYLVANIA TURNS ‘EM OUT; FURMAN GAME SHOULD DRAW

IT SEEMS that Coach Bill Dole and his men are going to be facing quite a few Pennsylvanians in the next few years. However, we'd bet he almost got his fill of Pennsylvania lads this fall. The rosters of William & Mary and Richmond are loaded with boys from the Keystone State, and seven members of the first team All-Conference were born and raised in—you guessed it—Pennsylvania.

EDDIE TEAGUE, head football coach at The Citadel, was named Southern Conference Coach of the Year this week. Teague completed his fifth season at The Citadel, and directed the Bulldogs to their first conference championship and a 7-3 record.

IF BILL JARMAN maintains his current scoring pace, he will certainly be one of the nation's top scorers this season. Jarman carries a 32.5 average to VMI tomorrow night.

JOHNSTON GYMNASIUM should be flowing to the rafters next Friday night when Furman comes here for a conference clash. That's the night before we go home for the holidays, and every student should make an attempt to be at this game. We all should have little if no work to do that night, and the game will be a good way to let off steam after this current period of reviews, term papers, etc. While we're there, let’s make some noise. We've yet to get even with the Paladins for their one-point victories in football and basketball last year.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Grapplers Thump Pfeiffer And Duke

The Davidson wrestlers subdued their first two opponents of the season, by downing both Pfeiffer and Duke by identical scores, 17-11. Results of last Friday's Pfeiffer match were as follows: 123-Woodward (P) defeated Barger; 130-Wright (D) defeated Crumbley; 137-West (P) pinned Brown; 147-McCoy (D) defeated Stokes; 157-Hand (P) defeated LeDoyen; 167-Mills (D) defeated Albie; 177-Alexander (D) defeated Asher; and heavyweight-Walls (D) pinned Goodner.

Yesterday's Duke match went as follows: 123-Dow (Duke) defeated Barger, 5-2; 130-Donnelly (Duke) pinned Wray; 137-Brown (Davidson) defeated Johnson, 7-0; 147-McCoy (Davidson) defeated Politi, 6-4; 157-LeDoyen (Davidson) defeated Morris, 4-1; 167-Stane (Duke) defeated Mills, 8-6; 177-Day (Davidson) defeated Lomer, 4-0; and heavyweight-Walls (Davidson) pinned Menge.

This coming Tuesday night at 7:00 the wrestlers take on rugged North Carolina here on the local mats. Coach Charlie Parker regards the Tarheels as “a lot tougher than Duke,” but says the real test comes next Friday afternoon at 3:00, when VMI invades the campus for a bout.

Outscoring two All-Americans in the first two games of the season, Bill Jarman, our "Catfish of the Week," has been on fire. Coach Dwight Shank's swimming team dunked their first two opponents in what the young coach termed as “conditioning meets.” The Catfish clipped Clemson a week ago in the local pool, 64-31, and then visited Appalachian yesterday for a 68-28 victory.

First place winners in the Clemson meet were Carter Mebane (220 and 440-yard freestyle), Barry Branch (50-yd. freestyle), and Bill Hull (200-yd. backstroke).

Following that game, Coach BILL JARMAN, 6-5 junior, has burned the nets in the ‘Cats' first two games. Jarman takes the court tomorrow night as the cagers seek their first win.

PAGE THREE

VMI TOMORROW, GW MONDAY

Victory Starved Cagers Visit Conference Foes

Following two initial setbacks to two of the nation's most powerful cage teams, the Davidson Wildcats get back into their class at 8 p.m. tomorrow night, when they travel to Lexington, Va., for a contest with their first conference foe—VMI.

Last Saturday night, Wake Forest, the nation's 3rd ranked team, overpowered the ‘Cats in Winston-Salem, 96-62. The Deacons, seeking revenge for last year’s loss, harassed the ‘Cats with a tight man-to-man defense, and hit on more than 60% of their shots for the victory.

JARMAN SHINES

Davidson's Bill Jarman was the night's high scorer with 30 markers, 7 points better than Wake’s highest man, All-American Len Chappell, who tossed in 23. On Tuesday night, Jarman outscored another All-American,Duke's Art Heyman, by 35 to 28, but the other Blue Devils scored more than enough to make up for the deficit as they crushed the outmanned visitors, 117-72. Tomorrow night's game is a 32.5 scoring average to VMI fray: his average as a sophomore, and may be in line for All-Conference honors.

Frosh Seek Taste of Victory Tonight

The highly touted Davidson freshman cagers, nipped at the bud in their first two games, lost to Columbia, S.C. tonight to take on the University of South Carolina Gamecocks. The game begins at 6 p.m. and is the preliminary to the South Carolina-Virginia clash. Last Saturday, several key freshmen, Bill Whittington (diving), Stefan Young (100-yd. fly), Tuck Hollenbeck (100-yd. free), and “Lofty” Driscoll exclaimed, “He did a terrific job and should get all the credit in the world.” The Kittens got into foul trouble early in the game, as they fell to Wake Forest, 91-90. Charlie Davidson's first in the conference; VMI's second. This past Tuesday night, the Keydets lost to conference kingpin West Virginia, 80-56. In an earlier encounter, VMI lost to Clemson, 87-74.

BEST SHOOTER

Pacing the VMI attack is All-Conference Norm Halberstadt, whom Driscoll calls “the best outside shot in the conference.” Last year, the 6'0" senior from Brooklyn, N.Y., led the Keydets in every department as he threw in an average of 22.5 points a game. A good crop of sophomores gives Coach Weenie Miller his best prospects for a winning season in nearly a decade. 6'7" Bobby Watson is the big man under the boards that the Keydets have been lacking, and 6'3" Bill Blair is expected to share the scoring load with Halberstadt. Following the VMI game, the Wildcats swing on farther north to Washington, D.C., for a Monday night encounter with George Washington, the “Cinderella” team a year ago, when they won the conference tournament after compiling a dismal 3-9 record during the regular season.

SPARKPLUG

Pacing veteran Coach Bill Reinhart's quint is All-Conference Jon Feldman, a 5'10" sparkplug, who averaged 20.4 last year. GW opened their season with an 80-74 victory over VPI, but lost to powerful St. John's on Wednesday night. To wind up the pre-holiday activity, the Wildcats return home next Friday night for an 8 p.m. clash with Furman. Tommy Fronech (200-yd. backstroke), in addition, the Wildcats relay team, composed of Hollenbeck, Mebane, Bill Ambrose, and Jim Moore, covered 400 yards in 3:57.4 for a victory. Yesterday against the State Teachers at Boone, practically the same men came through with victories, and Delta Vandersee, Richardson Scholar, contributed a first place in the 200-yard breaststroke.

On Tuesday night, Jarman surpassed his opening performance as he dropped in 36 points against highly regarded Duke. Thus he outscored All-American Art Heyman by 7 points, the same margin by which he eclipsed Chappell. In the Duke game, the Wildcats center hit 13 goals and 8 charity tosses. Jarman, a pre-med major, should easily better his 15.3 average.

Sign up for Advanced Army ROTC... And right away, you'll feel better about your Military Obligation... Because you know, as an officer, your military service will be a stimulating and rewarding experience. You will enjoy the pay, the prestige, the traditional privileges of an officer... your military service can pay off handsomely in later life. For example, ROTC can be tremendously helpful when a man starts his climb up the civilian ladder. Success in the executive areas of business and industry comes earlier and more substantially to the man who can lead. Few are born leaders; but leadership can be learned. And Advanced ROTC is a great place to learn it... you will be contributing to the limit of your potentialities in one of the biggest jobs we face today... you can help keep America so strong the war the whole world dreads need never happen. During your 2-year Advanced Army ROTC course, there will be a subsistence allowance of $535. Uniforms and military textbooks are paid for. There is a $117 allowance for your six-week summer camp training, plus travel allowance. And when you're commissioned, a $300 uniform allowance. And then, of course, there is the warm sense of accomplishment you will feel in June 1963 when the gold bars of a Second Lieutenant are pinned on your Army uniform.

Marcon paced the frosh with 20 points—18 of them coming in the first half. Marcon fouled out early in the second half. Other top scorers were Don Davidson, 17; Phil Squires, 17; Fred Hetzel, 14; and Dave Thomas, 12.

On Tuesday, the Kittens fell 75-71 to the Baby Blue Devils, as a last-minute press failed to trim the margin.

AND THEY'RE OFF! — Four fraternity swimmers hit the pool at the beginning of the 75-yard individual medley in Monday night's I-F swim meet. They are (from the bottom of the picture up) DENNIS PHILLIPS (Pi Kapp), KEITH FRASER (Pika), CHARLIE ROWE (KA), and ZACH SMITH (Beta). The Phi Delts won the meet. Closest competitors were the SAE's, KA's, and Betas.

THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: LOREN GERGENS

Three years ago he was an economics major in college. Today he is a salesman introducing Bell System products and services to business executives. Loren Gergens and his sales staff have improved the communications efficiency of many firms by analyzing their operations and recommending advanced Bell System products and services. Loren Gergens of Mountain States Telephone & Telegraph Company, and the other young men like him in Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country, help make your communications service the finest in the world.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES