a4

THOMASON CHALLENGES DUGGAN’S EDITORIAL (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

RAIN INTERRUPTS SPORTS SCHEDULE (See Page Three)

VOL. XLIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1961 NUMBER TWENTY-TWO

Toynbee Comes Sunday Evening
By JOHN Dashiell
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Speaking on the topics “Does History Make Sense?” and “The Outlook for the West Today,” Historian and Author Arnold J.
Toynbee will be featured in the second of Davidson’s R. J. Reynolds Lectureship Series next week. He will arrive on
campus Sunday evening.

Dr. Toynbee will be here Monday and Tuesday, and will, in addition to the above-mentioned topics, deliver lectures. Author of
the 10-volume work, A Study of History, and former Director of Studies at the Royal Institute of International Affairs, Toynbee
is a prominent figure in historical scholarship. This spring, an additional volume in his Study of History series will appear.
It will be entitled “Reconsiderations.”

Recently, Toynbee attracted nation-wide attention by comparing the Israeli treatment of the Arabs in 1948 to the Nazi persecutions of
World War II. He stated, “It is impossible to be wicked more than 100 per cent. For example, I don’t
have to kill more than one man to be a murderer.”

SCHEDULE SET
A tentative schedule for Dr. Toynbee has been planned. Monday at 9:20 a.m., he will meet with History 111-112. An
informal discussion will follow his lunch at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity house. At 8:15 p.m., in the Morrison Room,
he will present his lecture, “Does History Make Sense?” President Martin will be presiding, and a question and discussion period
will follow.

Tuesday at student assembly, Dr. Toynbee will deliver his second lecture, “The Outlook for the West Today.” There will be
a coffee hour for students and faculty at the College Union following this address. He will have dinner in the
Union with members of the History Department. At 8:15, he will conclude his visit with an open meeting with history
honors students and history majors. The suggested subject for the meeting is “Philosophy of History.”

The R. J. Reynolds Lectureship Series is part of an endowment made to Davidson in 1959 by the Z. Smith
Reynolds Foundation. This provides for four or five lectures during the course of a normal year. The program was initiated
last fall by Archibald MacLeish, author of “J. B.”

Mansell Will Head YMCA Next Year
Frank Mansell was elected president of the YMCA in student balloting early this week. Also elected to top Y posts
were Alec Morgan, vice-president; Sam Glasgow, secretary; and Phil Burks, treasurer.

Mansell, president of Sigma Nu fraternity, has been active in many of this year’s Y activities, including last fall’s Freshman
Camp. He defeated Joe Robinson, head of this year’s Book-of-the-Year program and member of Phi Delta Theta.

Vice-president-elect Morgan defeated Spud Stewart by a margin of only two votes in balloting Wednesday in which about 35 per
cent of the student body participated. In the other contests, Burks won by 10 votes and Glasgow by 70.

Freshman members of the Honor Court were also decided this week in a final run-off. Elected were Charles Rowe and
Stafford Warren.

Jordan Defeats Editor Of DAVIDSONIAN In Light Vote Today
David Jordan, R. D. Jackson, and Rob Abernethy were elected editors of Davidson’s three major publications in this morning’s balloting.
Jordan took the top DAVIDSONIAN post, Jackson, the editorship of Scripts ‘n Pranks, and Abernethy won a similar position on
Quips and Cranks.

Jordan has had experience on THE DAVIDSONIAN staff since his freshman year when he was voted the D. Grier Martin
Award for the best freshman writer. He has also worked on The Miami Herald under the journalism apprenticeship of the
Wall Street Journal.

C. S. Smith Heads Vags
C. Shaw Smith, director of the Union, will head a new steering committee for the Vagabonds, which was appointed this
week. The committee will plan and supervise the drama groups’ activities for the remainder of the year. Smith will be
assisted by eight other members. Student representatives are Hansford Epes, Don Stowell, Walter Bost, Frank Gohlke, and Neal Bushoven. Dr.
W. F. Goodykoontz, Mrs. H. T. Lilly, and Mrs. Marjory Murphy will represent the faculty and community.

Smith indicated that Vagabonds’ affairs would go through the Student Activities Office now. The arrangement will definitely continue until the
arrival next fall of John Sneden, Jr., who will lead the new drama department. The steering committee’s future will be
decided on then.

The Vagabonds won three “distinguished” ratings in the regionals of the Carolina Dramatics Association's play festival in Charlotte last week.
“The Lottery,” “Dark Lady of the Sonnets,” and “The Second Shepherd’s Play” have earned the right to compete in the
state festival at Chapel Hill, April 10, at 8:15 p.m. in the Morrison Room. “The Devil and Daniel Webster” won
“excellent” ratings but will not be eligible for the state contest. The plays were judged by two actors from the
Charlotte and Gastonia Little Theatres.

In addition, the Vagabonds won three of the top four acting awards. Dr. Ernest Patterson, who portrays Mac in “The
Second Shepherd’s Play” received the leading actor award. Frank Gohlke, who played the fool in “Escurial” and Mrs. Marjory Murphy,
who played Jill in “The Second Shepherd’s Play” won the awards for the best male and female supporting roles.

MR. E. S. DOWDY prepares Milner’s DAVIDSONIAN. Davidson Printing Co., spends two or three hours every Friday evening printing, cutting,
and folding the paper.

Pre-meds and science majors may not be able to participate fully in the new humanities program, Dean Frontis W. Johnston
said this week. The inter-departmental course was approved by the Curriculum Committee a few days ago. The science major would
have no trouble taking the humanities schedule his freshman year, but would not be able to take six hours of
humanities, a language, two science courses, and ROTC during either semester of his sophomore year. The only alternative seems to
be to put off the humanities until the junior year.

COMMITTEE WON'T SAY
“The Curriculum Committee was unwilling to say anything about putting off the second part of the program until the junior
year,” Johnston said. “There are a good many details that we haven't ironed out yet and this is one of
them.”

Johnston, dean of faculty and chairman of the Curriculum Committee, said that the program would be open to 80-90 freshmen
in the fall of 1962. The course is voluntary for both students and instructors. Furthermore, a student may drop out
of the program after the first year and probably still retain the full 12 hours credit.

SIX-MAN TEAM
Six professors will conduct the program. These six will likely be selected from a sizeable group of volunteers next week.
During the summer they will make an intensive eight-weeks study in the areas included in the program: chiefly philosophy, religion,
history, and the arts. The course will meet every day — sometimes in full lecture group, other times in informal
discussion groups of about 15 students each. Each of the six professors will have his own small group with which
he will work for the entire year.

They have a very famous humanities program. This started talk and exploration at Davidson. Several classrooms in Chambers will be
remodeled to contribute to a more suitable atmosphere for the small, informal discussion groups.DA | of 228 to 140. Jackson,
newly elected humor magazine editor, is a pre-med major from Jacksonville, Florida. He is presently a member of this year’s
Scripts ‘n Pranks staff as well as Sigma Upsilon and Eumenean Literary Society. “In my opinion, the Davidson humor magazine
lacks one essential element — humor,” stated Jackson. Jackson won over Bill Pruitt by a vote of 233 to 142.
Abernethy has been activities editor on the annual and has also worked on The Wildcat Handbook. He is a pre-med
major from Charlotte and a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. The voting for this position was conducted only among
the rising senior class who traditionally elect men to this job. Abernethy received 77 of the votes cast while his
opponent, Phil Patrick, received 40.

Problems majors may find it difficult to integrate humanities programs adopted by the faculty eight pretty heavy load. This won't
be a textbook course. We are planning to order a good many new books for the library.”

ORAL PRESENTATION

Johnston also said that they would emphasize oral presentation in the small groups. The student may or may not have
time to prepare what he is going to say. “We anticipate a good bit of student participation,” he commented. “We
hope that the lectures can tie together what is discussed in the small groups.” The integrated humanities program has been
under consideration by Davidson College professors for nearly two years. “This is not a new idea in college education,” Johnston
said. “We first became interested in it out at the Danforth Curriculum Workshop at Colorado. We talked with Professor Aragon
of Reed College, Oregon.

HARLOW SHAPLEY

A subcommittee was appointed. Shapley Lectures On Cosmography Harlow Shapley, lecturer on cosmography at Harvard University and author of six
books and more than 200 technical scientific articles, will deliver the third presentation of the R. J. Reynolds Lectureship series
of Davidson, April 9-12. Topics at his two major lectures are “Stars, Ethics and Survival” and “Cosmic Evolution.” The Curriculum
Committee sals and elaborated on them.

CLASSROOM CHANGE

Problems to be solved, it is possible that survival, will be presented April son Room, with a period of questions
and discussion following. At 10:20 a.m., April 11, he will speak at the student assembly on “Cosmic Evolution.” This will
be followed by a coffee hour in the Union for students and faculty. His final presentation will consist of an
open meeting in the Science Lab of Sigma Pi (honorary fraternity).

JACKSON ABERNETHY

Six Queens Sororities Vie In 2nd Olympics Tomorrow

Six Queens sororities will vie tomorrow on Richardson Field for the winner’s trophy in the second annual Davidson-Queens Olympics, sponsored
by Alpha Tau Omega. Because of a football practice in the stadium, the field day will be held at 3:30
p.m., rather than at 2:30 as originally planned. According to co-chairmen Jim Jamison and Ben Shappley, “the girls are really
excited about this and have been practicing all week.” They will participate in “10 ridiculous events,” which include an egg
throwing contest, pie throwing at the coaches, and a special surprise event to be announced tomorrow at the Olympics. All
proceeds will go to the Holy Angels Nursery, in Belmont, which has been chosen as the charity for this year.
The nursery now provides a home for 15 retarded and handicapped children, and the donation will make an expansion possible.
Profits from last year's Olympics went to buy artificial legs for Dickie Bryant of Charlotte, who lost his own legs
in a train accident.

A scooter race will feature six Davidson professors hot-rodding against six professors from Queens. Entries as of Wednesday included Prof.
Jim Gross, Dr. J. G. Martin, and Dr. Sam Maloney. Highlighting the afternoon will be the selection of the “Sexiest
Man on Campus.” Each fraternity has nominated a candidate for the contest, and the winner will be selected by judges
at the Olympics. This will take the place of last year’s Ugliest Man on Campus Contest.

In case of rain, the Olympics will be held in the gym.

‘CASH’ JACKSON

More To Davidson Than Meets The Eye

Davidson is not only a place of books, students, and a road to Charlotte, but it also contains a population
(2500 resident) and a fertilizer plant (also resident). Assuming that there was more to Davidson than meets the eye, THE
DAVIDSONIAN questioned Mayor F. L. (Cash) Jackson about his town and also about the relations of the college to the
community. “If you speak of the relation between the college and the town, they are one,” quipped Jackson. “Move Davidson
College and you've got just a wide spot in the road.

“For instance, back in 1924, the college Another company, as yet publicly unidentified, has purchased land in the community and
will probably be in operation in about six months. The recently completed Town Hall has ample space for four pieces
of fire fighting equipment, a town office, three assembly rooms, a fireman's kitchen, a police office, and a two-cell jail.
“The college is not taxed: it pays a flat fee of $1200 which is roughly equivalent to the tax that
would be paid. The various buildings in town that the college owns are not taxed either.”

The town employs an accountant, a clerk and three policemen working in 8-hour shifts. There is a 30-man volunteer fire
department plus an attendant with an open wire phone to answer fire calls. The college paid for about half of
the firefighting equipment.

As for law enforcement, Mayor Jackson said, “I’m the only man in town who can issue a warrant. Violators are
only fined up to $100 and 60 days. The cases I don't like to handle. There are still a great
many details to be worked out and planned for Dr. Shapley. His lecture, “Stars, Ethics and Survival,” will be presented
April 12 at 8:15 p.m. in the Science Lab of Sigma Pi (honorary fraternity). We, of course, always covet the
understanding and cooperation of the students. Relations between our officers and students have been unusually good for the past several
years. But friction is always possible. “Right now we are particularly worried about students and professors coming out into Concord
Street without stopping for the light. We are sworn to uphold the law and would hate to have to create
a scene because someone violated it.”
