é Che Bavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A Spirit And A Tradition

The report of the Davidson College Board of Visitors released today formulated our academic and financial goal for the next
ten years:

Our goal is to make Davidson the best college of its type—not just in the South, but in all of
America. With a steadily improving student body, faculty, and campus plant, this church-related liberal arts college for 1,000 men can—with
generous support from our friends and the alumni—achieve this goal in the decade ahead.

We are pleased with this objective and the general aims of the new ten-year plan, but we must ask ourselves
if $20,487,523, a faculty of scholars, a student body of the nation’s most intelligent gentlemen, and 25 modern major buildings
will make us the best college of our type in America. Davidson is not the first college to attempt this
goal, and if we fail, we will not be alone in failure. Other institutions have sallied off with sums greater
than $20,487,523 only to discover that something more is needed.

To be truly great, a college must have tradition and spirit—a liberal tradition of a spirit of free and excited
search for the answers to real questions. We must have good professors; but primarily, we must have a dynamic, creative
faculty freed of a subtle web of oaths and restrictions. We must seek well-qualified students, but fewer cool guys and
more live guys. Our students must be different, vital men with different, vital ideas not just candidates for the Presbytery,
Bar, Chamber of Commerce, and AMA. We must cease to be afraid of new men and new ideas, of experiment,
and of controversy. Education is not a finish of dull glazing. It is a bold search. It is this bold
spirit which we must encourage if we intend to be first among colleges.

Furthermore, we must develop, cherish, and ensure a liberal tradition of free thinking and freedom to think in which a
first-class spirit of inquiry can survive and grow. Davidson must be conservative in preserving the liberal areas in its present
tradition and liberal in making changes in the restrictive, conservative areas. Robert Hall Morrison has said, “We begged the college
into existence.” However, not the most ingratiating of the representatives of Madison Avenue among us can beg us into first
place among America’s small church-affiliated liberal arts colleges. The real progress must be a change from within.

L. K.

Can Davidson Be Sincere?

Dr. Henri Peyre spoke right to the heart of several matters of local interest in his observations on education in
Tuesday’s assembly. Fortunately, he had a captive audience then; his other addresses and enlightened comments fell upon very few ears.
The activities of the last four days reflect the very dangers and problems he recognized in American education. Perhaps today
he is less praising of Davidson. We do breed businessmen; we don't dare cross business; we aren't making the “imaginative
use of freedom,” Peyre called for.

His side comments about fundraising, “sincerity,” and the bowing of education to business turned out to be prophetic. The words
must have haunted him Tuesday and Wednesday as he was ignored in the college’s all-out preparation for our really important
“Guests” this week. He could not avoid noticing (could anyone?) this slight, by both students and administration. No major member
of the college family introduced him, accompanied him, or attended his addresses; yet he saw them all come out Wednesday
night at the deluxe “dinner-party” for the Board of Visitors. It is ludicrous to compare his reception with that afforded
to the Visitors with their influential positions and well-lined pockets.

We realize that Davidson has to compete in a vicious business world for the money it needs to carry out
its program. We are grateful to Mr. Dana; we are appreciative for all that the Board of Visitors is able
to accomplish. We should express this gratitude and appreciation. But there is a point beyond which a college cannot afford
to compromise. We treaded that point unsteadily this week.

Madison Avenue might well take notice of our smooth, organizational tactics. Surely, they have nothing over our public relations men
in turning out elaborate, glib brochures to attract the buyer. We have something valuable to offer. But it isn’t something
to be put up for bids on the market. We in America have educated for business too much, Dr. Peyre
commented. We at Davidson are dedicating our time and energies to business too much. What scholar or educator (obviously not
Dr. Peyre) would ever receive the red-carpet treatment, and right-at-the-elbow attention given our Guests this week “who really count?”

The Reynolds Lecture was a come-on—money well spent to record in the next brochure that we had Dr. Henri Peyre
on campus. Our college family gained so much from his visit. His coming is another indication Davidson is well on
the way to being THE best college of its type not only in the South but in all America. Can
any of this be sincere?

Without Comment

Ross Rossaza Concert, Friday night — 10 students attending
‘Gala’ Performance, Monday night — 12 students attending
Dr. Peyre, Reynolds Lecture, Tuesday night — 23 students attending
Dr. Peyre, Open Discussion, Wednesday afternoon — 16 students attending
Phi Delt, Kappa Sig Flickerball Game, Tuesday — 100 students attending

Haven't We Left Something Behind?

By Adams

Art's ‘Gala’ Is Step Along

Faculty Funds Are Main Item In New Program

BY BILL HAGEN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The new 15-year program’s main monetary emphasis will be in the realm of attracting, training, and holding high-caliber instructors. Six
million dollars alone will be collected and invested to provide for $240,000 a year to increase faculty salaries. This will
help correct the disparity presently existing between Davidson professors’ salaries on all levels, and the average for typical men’s liberal
arts colleges in the South. Incentives and travel-research grants will be used both for salary increments, graduate study, and for
research projects involving travel. Under the new program, an additional $48,000 per year would be available. Over a million dollars
will be needed if Davidson is to endow and to modestly increase its six “key” chairs which will attract top-flight
scholars.

Endowment needs other than faculty total $6,900,000. In the areas of student scholarships and the international student program, 3½ million
dollars is needed; both to maintain and expand. With an aim of increasing the library's book stock from 87,000 to
150,000 in the next decade, $20,000 more a year will be necessary. 12 million dollars will be needed to pay
for additional instructional equipment, a specialist to care for it, and for maintenance of the present physical plant. The physical
education program, which cannot be supported solely by gate receipts, will require a $400,000 endowment to keep up its present
standards.

Harding Analyses Economic Problem

BY STEVE HARDING
Richardson Scholar

This article is primarily intended as a layman's analysis of Britain and the Common Market and is not meant to
cover more than just a skeleton of the facts. There are at the moment two thriving economic groups in Europe:
THE EUROPEAN FREE TRADE AREA, referred to as EFTA or “The Seven,” which consists of Britain, Portugal, Norway, Sweden, Denmark,
Austria, and Switzerland; and THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY, EEC or “The Six,” which is made up of West Germany, France,
Belgium, Italy, and Luxembourg. The EEC is always termed “THE COMMON Market.” A rough indication of relative incomes is, for
“the Seven,” $108,000,000,000 (pop. 89 million of which Britain’s contribution is 52 million) and, for “the six,” $174,000,000,000 (pop. 167
million). A comparable figure for U.S.A. is $519,000,000,000 (pop. 177,000,000).

The idea of rapprochement is not new. However, Britain is not prepared to sign “The Treaty of Rome,” the Common
Market Constitution, as it stands. She wants concessions for British farmers and for the Commonwealth which are not forthcoming. Before
further comment, it might be worth looking at the aims of the Common Market. The program due for completion 1970-73
includes:

1. Common Internal Tariffs
2. Common External Tariffs
3. Common Agricultural Tariffs
4. Free Labor Movement
5. Common Transport Policy
6. “Fair Competition” Rules (i.e: no monopolies)

The Students Speak Out

The Academic Scheduling Poll taken last Tuesday by the Student Council and THE DAVIDSONIAN gave a fairly clear picture of
student body opinion. Although only about 400 students completed it, we feel that at least three suggestions have great student
approval:

1. Continue the present eight-day examination schedule.
2. Provide a one or two day reading period before exams begin.
3. Extend the semester break to about four days.

A great many students suggested extending Spring Holidays as well as the semester break. Many showed they had given at
least some thought to the problem by suggesting that school run later in June. The advantages of an early Commencement
are outweighed in the minds of most students by the desire for more time off during the school year. The
Academic Scheduling Committee has had some of its questions answered. It’s now up to that committee to attempt a schedule,
certainly in time for next year, which will answer a few of the students’ complaints.

D. B. S.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Jordan

BUSINESS MANAGER
Gene Adcock

Associate Editors
Joe McCutchen
Lee Kirby

PhotographerIt would considerably improve her ailing economy; surely the question is not “Should Britain join the Common Market?” but “When
(at what point) should Britain join the Common Market?”. This is the problem as many people see it. Since writing
the above, Britain has pledged to join the Common Market. She now believes that the necessary safeguards for British Agriculture
and the Commonwealth can be obtained without alteration to the major articles of the Rome Treaty, but by simply adding
protocol—the language that Europeans understand. The Government has got off to a good start and many people welcome a positive
approach. However, it must expect some hard bargaining in the months that lie ahead as the problems involved are far
from over. But it is commendable that they have set off on the right path. Those opposed to Britain’s entry
might do well to consider what will happen if Britain stays out.

Steve Harding

To broaden the work of the chaplain’s office and other religious endeavors, the college must collect 450,000 dollars. Non-academic employees,
administrative expenses, and the counseling and clinical programs will need the income provided by $850,000 to initiate “must” expansion. Improvement
of Davidson's physical plant will entail the expenditure of more than 4½ million dollars. In the library, plans for the
building of a special room to house rare books, a reserve room, enlarged stacks, and for air-conditioning are in process.
The success of the language lab has initiated the proposals for its enlargement. The facilities of sports, involving tennis, golf,
and intramural sports need modernization. This, coupled with the planned development of facilities for water sports on Lake Norman, will
necessitate the raising of $150,000. Besides repairs on present housing, further work will be done in the faculty sub-division type
of construction. $350,000 will pay the cost of renovation and expansion of the Carolina Inn, including 30 motel-type units and
dining facilities. The Guest House will need $40,000 for renovation into its new function as Alumni Center. The money will
also be used to continue its functions as a guest reception center, and a “center for programs of continuing education.”
125 thousand dollars, if raised, is earmarked for new equipment for the laundry and parking, walk, and drainage improvements. Heating
and air-conditioning, and electrical system modernization are needed in several of the buildings. Also, in Chambers Building alone, new lecture
rooms, auditorium changes, and an audio-visual aids center will require approximately $250,000. The College Union, to improve its eating facilities
and to put in a separate snack bar and separate dining rooms, will need some $150,000. This will also be
used for air-conditioning and expanded meeting space. Due to the increased number of students majoring in a science and the
recent advances in the physical sciences, some $123,000 will be spent, if collected, for new equipment and the replacement of
old equipment. Finally, to culminate the “completeness” of Davidson College, $40,000 is required. Using the money, a greenhouse will be
constructed to help supplement the work of the Biology Department.

A Cautious Cultural Climb
BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Despite such “last minute minor crises” as wet paint, dirt-tracking workmen, and the Board of Visitors, the J. R. Cunningham
Fine Arts Center remained the focus of attention this week as the “Gala Celebration” was climaxed with the formal dedication
of the building on Thursday. The five-day festivities were designed to introduce not only the center but also the people
and arts which it houses. And amidst crashing curtains and scanty audiences some progress was seen to be made towards
this goal. But the Muses in their new temple were somewhat “less than bubbly” over the success of the “Gala.”
While no one was willing to comment upon the minor, or major, limitations of building and student response, there were
indications that optimism was wearing a little thin. Hardest hit by gremlins was the drama department, step-child of the Davidson
fine arts. Sitting in his narrow office, John A. Sneden, Director of Dramatics explained the situation. “When this building was
designed, drama at Davidson was all but dead.” The Vagabonds successfully revived interest in drama last year. And in January,
the position held by Sneden was created. The problem was then to integrate the necessary facilities into a building designed
as a recital hall. Sneden commented that his office, which appears on the blueprints as a broom closet, is indicative
of this. “We are very thankful for what we have, however,” he said. “The lighting board and sound system are
fantastic... that is, excellent. And the facilities are certainly better than drama has ever had.” But there are unmistakable disadvantages
when one is a step-child, or even a newly-returned prodigal. It was found that the main curtain let too much
light through. A lining was the three hundred pound answer. Unfortunately, there was no compensation for the added weight, and
after one hour of lined, opaque glory, down it came. Though remedied, the curtain now obstinately refuses to stay closed,
and must be held during scene changes, hurting the audience’s eyes because it is white and not a soft dark
color. Even the stage wagon, solution to the problem of providing the same stage for the acoustically different drama and
music departments, was under the jinx. After all provisions were made for the performance, it was found that the wagon
could not be rolled onto the stage without being trimmed of its electrical system bulges. Emergency surgery was performed and
the wagon rolled, minus junction boxes. But these minor crises in the building that was “meant to be shown, not
used” were not as alarming as the death of student response. The advocates of Davidson’s culture sterility won the opening
battle when only 12 non-participating students sat in the “Gala” audience. It was hoped that participation would take a turn
for the better at Thursday’s voluntary formal dedicatory service. Donald B. Plott, head of the music department, expected good turnout;
“We'll snag a few students on the way to the PO,” to supplement the crowd of interested spectators. Still, everything
was not so gloomy as might seem to be the case. Plott's department faced a “little experimentation with the sound”
as the only problem, along with the tacitly recognized absence of audience. And in the other wing, Fine Arts Professor
Douglas C. Houchens could complain, openly, only of a “rushed” atmosphere; his “clean cut” facilities were without fault, with the
possible exception of the handy window to the outside in one wall of the room which is used to receive
art exhibitions. Generally, Davidson’s latest showcase (in the tradition of Patterson Fraternity Court) may serve as headquarters for the fine
arts quite well, once a few bugs are ironed out. But if the apathy of the student body is any
indication, the building’s sole use will be a bulky monument to rich benefactors. For the present, Cunningham Fine Arts Center
stands, all too empty. The embryonic art collection, the performances, and the building itself are useless without attendance. And as
doors refused to open, curtains refused to close, workmen refused to leave, and President Martin and a group of visiting
dignitaries found a stack of beer cans that were “part of the props” for “Taming of the Shrew,” everyone stemmed
the flow of blood, sweat, and tears long enough to wonder what John R. Cunningham would say to dedicate his
showcase.

Students Hit Short Holidays

Have you ever wondered what students write in the space designated for comments in a student poll? THE DAVIDSONIAN has
taken a long look at the remarks on this week's Academic-scheduling ballots. The upshot of the opinions are summed up
very well by one sophomore’s remark: “Davidson has... shorter holidays than any other four-year college in this state. Certainly the
student body deserves more than this pittance.” A senior referred to graduation as the “ridiculous exodus in May.” He wants
the exodus to come in June, with the extra time being added to the mid-semester “break” in order that it
may justify its name. A sophomore who wants six days taken from class time to make a reading period before
exams believes that “class time itself is hardly indicative of the amount and quality of work done since so many
classes are essentially farcical.” One student who wants the exam schedule arranged on “logic, for a change” believes that exams
should end on a Saturday and that a vacation should be given the next week, to include the weekend. “A
weekend is the only chance the average Davidson student has to date.” He circled “senior” on the ballot and under
it wrote “who has definite ideas due to many scheduling frustrations!” He did not say whether or not the frustrations
came from scheduling classes or dates...

Don Saunders
Cartoonist: Doug Ackerman
Managing Editors: Bill Hagen
Sports Editor: Mac Plaxico
Assignments Editor: Steve Clark
Feature Editor: Bill Ruth
News Editor: Sam Fort
Circulation Manager: Clay Atkins
Assistant Bus. Manager: Rick Finch

The main reasons against Britain joining EEC are:
1. The effect on British Agriculture which will have to be completely reorganized to fit into European pattern.
2. The effect on our relations with...
