Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1961
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

The Great Schism

The growing alienation between science and the liberal arts here at Davidson is becoming frightening. We are fast being divided into two groups, roughly distinguished as the pre-meds and others. Davidson has a fine pre-med program of which we can be well proud. Graduate schools and prospective students are aware of it and more and more pre-med majors are drawn to the campus each year. Actually, the number is already out of proportion to the student body enrollment. Even more serious, however, is the growing failure to fulfill the true liberal arts goal. Pre-meds and other science majors are swamped by their required science courses. The old basic required courses are not sufficient to provide a real, integrated liberal arts background, and the science major is unable to pursue many advanced courses in the humanities.

Last month, with the faculty's approval of the new interdepartmental humanities course, it appeared here was a partial solution, a means to bridge the widening gap. By substituting this for the old program, the science major could more likely obtain an “appreciation of the interrelationship of all knowledge and culture.” Now, its fate as a possible remedy is seriously threatened. It is no secret that many professors in the science departments strongly oppose the new program. They are perfectly satisfied with the present science program to the point of a frank “hands off” request to the faculty. They will not likely encourage “their boys” to enroll in the program. Yet, without their support, the program can at most be a hollow success. The science major, for whom the course is most needed, is now the one least likely to take it. He has a serious scheduling problem which leaves him with three possibilities according to Dean Johnston: not take the course at all; take only one year of it; or take the second half his junior year. The first two we would prefer to dismiss immediately. Only one year of the course would hopelessly complicate fulfillment of required hours in English, Bible and history, while leaving the student with a spotty, incoherent program of study. That leaves the possibility of a junior year course, which is indeed preferable if a continuous program is impossible. We don’t believe it is. A cooperative attempt on the part of the planning committee and science men to work out a schedule might well prove successful. One quick suggestion comes to mind — delaying fulfillment of the language requirement until the junior year. Whether the humanities comes in the sophomore or junior year, willing support from the science departments is still essential. The course will necessitate careful planning. Similar ones have failed in many schools. While the intensive preparation outlined by Dean Johnston is encouraging, we hope foremost attention will be given to the pre-med’s dilemma and definite provisions made enabling him to complete the full two-year course. Otherwise, the hopeful remedy will only serve to drive deeper the wedge of separation.

To Catch A Thief

Honor Court Chairman Scott Lacy says elsewhere on this page that over $350 has been taken from the dormitories since last September. In addition, several articles of clothing are missing, presumably stolen by members of the student body. This comes as a shock to most of us. Lacy cited one incident of theft over Midwinters weekend when more than $100 was stolen from four rooms on the same hall. He can name other incidents. And he says his total figure is a conservative estimate. Stealing is one of the hardest crimes to trace on the Davidson campus. There hasn’t been a person caught for stealing in the four years that the Senior Class has been here. But the problem has never been great: maybe a total of $10 would be missing, perhaps misplaced, over an entire year. Then too, stealing is one of those practices which cannot be condoned. Most of us take it for granted that, at Davidson, we are in the company of fairly honest people. Indeed, anyone who locks his room is considered pretty much an oddball. If we ever stop to think about it, we are usually proud that our honor system makes it possible to leave doors unlocked. The situation has changed, apparently. However much we may deplore the change, we agree that it’s high time we knew about it. It’s time, too, to change our attitude toward the Honor Court’s efforts to enforce our own honor system. Lacy’s court has done a commendable job this year in other areas of study. (See story on page one). But, as is usually the case, student cooperation has been nil. Real enforcement of the honor system is up to the student body itself. Maybe more of us will realize this when our own cash is stolen. But why tempt a thief? The time to use a little precaution is now. D. B. S.

The Artist Series’ Role

This week the new Reynolds Lectureship Series brought astronomer Harlow Shapley on campus as its final presentation in the highly-successful 1960-1961 series. He won the same active student interest enjoyed by the two other distinguished lecturers in the series, Archibald McLeish and Arnold Toynbee. The Artist Series, on the other hand, suffered this year from a lack of student support as indicated by the limited attendance at most of its six presentations. Despite a good crowd at the finale production, “Volpone” last Friday night, it looks like a bleak season in retrospect. One reason for this apathy might lie in the type of programs presented. As the college catalogue states, about half the numbers are concerts; the others “feature personalities in the fields of national politics, international affairs, science, literature, and the arts.” The Artist Series could better live up to what its name implies by sponsoring musical, dance, and drama programs, leaving the lecture-type program to other organizations on campus. A score of organizations bring lecturers during the year; the Artist Series should concern itself with concerts, not speakers. The main problem facing the series every year concerns finances. Their small budget cannot bring six or seven well-known, highly paid performances to Davidson, so the Committee concentrates on “performers on their way up.” A high price tag does not necessarily promise a higher quality program, but we hope the committee will consider booking fewer than the customary six or seven performances if this step can bring programs that would make the series more vital. More tickets would be sold at the door if top-notch performers were booked. This would permit the series to operate on a higher budget. The role of the Artist Series should be to educate the student’s cultural taste through programs by which he is enlightened as well as entertained. Perhaps the two students recently added to the committee, Alden Miller and Joe Robinson, can make the series more alive with their suggestions on this point. The Artist Series does not have the same role as the IFC Concert Series, but we believe students would be more ready to attend a modern jazz concert than an operetta. The Artist Series is in competition with scores of other activities for a portion of each student’s time. By giving consideration to the ideas of the students on the committee and by limiting the programs to music, dance, and drama performances, the Artist Series can be made more valuable.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Leonard Richardson

BUSINESS MANAGER
Don Saunders

Associate Editors
John A. Carson
Mace Plaxico

Managing Editors
Steve Clark
Bill Hagen
David Jordan
Gene Adcock

Feature Editor
Rick von Unwerth

Photographers
Jerry Abernethy
Marty Lafferty
Bill Wyche

Advertising Manager
Olin Nisbet

Circulation Manager
Jimmy Platt

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Help!..............
By Howell Judge

Of Honor Court Views Theft Problem

No one needs to be told that “one rotten apple will spoil the barrel.” This is an old cliché, yet it is one that has much application to our situation at Davidson. There is at least one “rotten apple” here, and, in spreading his influence throughout the student body, he is destroying something very vital to this college, the Honor System. There are many things that are wrong with it. There are the frequent “dives” of tests or the copied book reports, but things such as these do not pose the greatest threat. Stealing is our biggest problem, and the longer it continues, the more ineffectual our System becomes.

PROBLEM GROWS

In the past year and a half the thievery problem has gotten ridiculously out of hand. Over $350 has been taken from the dorms since last September, in addition to many valuable items of clothing. It is the opinion of us on the Honor Court that most of the money, and at least some of the clothing, was stolen by students. Unfortunately, we have been unsuccessful in catching the thief. We have failed for two reasons. In the first place we have neither the time nor the training to do an efficient job of sleuthing. Secondly, and most important, we have found that the average Davidson student inadvertently places barriers in our path.

STUDENTS CARELESS

Most of you students take it for granted that the Honor System works. You think nothing of leaving your wal-lets lying on the bed or in some other equally conspicuous spot. You leave your rooms open and pay no heed to strangers roaming the hall. All this would be possible if we had an Honor System that functioned at 100% efficiency; but we don’t; and trustfulness has become a luxury we can no longer afford. I am not appealing to you to become amateur Dick Tracys, I only want to bring the situation to your attention and appeal to you to use more discretion in your safeguarding of valuables.

SHAMEFUL

It is shameful that an article like this should ever have to be printed in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Ordinarily we would keep it quiet, but due to the gravity of the situation, we felt it would be better to inform all of you of the problem. It is too bad we should have to endure such a snake-in-the-grass, but since he is very much a harsh reality, please be careful.

Davidson Truly Guards Ideal Of Free Speech

By ERVIN DUGGAN

It happened in South Carolina, a proud state settled by dissenters — the Huguenots — and cherishing a history of dissent herself. It happened in the State which honors the memory of James Petigru, a Charlestonian who stood bravely against his fellow-citizens in the Revolution — and won their respect for his firmness. It happened in the State who long ago welcomed to her seminary a Darwinist preacher who had been scorned as a radical in other states.

In the legislative chambers of South Carolina two weeks ago Frank Porter Graham was labelled a “radical” and a “leftist,” all but a corrupter of youth. And Winthrop College was officially censured by the Legislature for allowing Dr. Graham to speak his mind on the Negro sit-in movement. It is significant to note that the Legislature made no attempt to refute Dr. Graham’s views. There was never a rebuttal — only the official condemnation. The gentlemen did not act in the manner of champions of the right determined to set the record straight; they responded unreasonably, emotionally, childishly, like men afraid.

And now their action is defended by some as “in no way contrary to the ideal of academic freedom or the guarantee of free speech.” Academic freedom, say the defenders, is not for “crackpots.” And what the South Carolina legislature does, they assert, is the business of South Carolina and her people. Such a defense is at best questionable and at worst foolish. For who is competent to select and censor the “crackpots” of today? Socrates was a “crackpot” who died for corrupting the impressionable youth of Athens with his upsetting ideas. The early American settlers were religious crackpots who came seeking freedom and stayed to establish this country as a refuge for heretics and a lighthouse of liberty. Thomas Edison was a crackpot. And Henry Ford. And Woodrow Wilson.

And in the old tradition of narrow-minded men, the lawmakers of South Carolina have condemned a “crackpot” again, as they did a few years ago when they forced the resignation of a dean in their university who dared question segregation. They have failed to see that education must move on the wide road of free discussion, whether it be midnight bull sessions in the dormitory, heated clashes in the classroom, or one man’s statement of his convictions to an audience of “impressionable” youths. Is the business of the legislature the business of South Carolina alone? Certainly not. When any legislature threatens free speech — even the speech of a “crackpot” — the threat is against all of us, not merely against the people of that state.

Frank Graham advocated no treason. He said at Davidson exactly what he said at Winthrop. And here, he was not condemned. His hearers, almost all of them intelligent conservatives, rejected his opinions but applauded his concern and his deep sincerity; they treated him as gentlemen should treat a gentleman. When Frank Graham on his visit to Davidson called this college “a temple of freedom and of religion,” some of us doubted him a bit. But now we are indebted to the gentlemen in Columbia for proving us wrong. Davidson College, by comparison at least, is a temple of freedom. We should be proud of that — and guard the doors of the temple to keep them open, and keep kindled the light in the temple, and cherish the learned crackpots who are priests of the temple where liberty has arisen.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Salem Holds Car Wash; Ferris Lauds Maverick

SALEMlTES

Dear Editor,

For the past two months, Salem students have begun to look beyond their brick walks, ivy-covered walls, and ancient traditions. On March 23, the student body voted overwhelmingly to adopt twelve refugee students for next year. Each class will sponsor three students, providing scholarships for their education in their native countries. This program will be financed by class and organizational projects. We, the sophomores, are planning a sloppy, soapy spectacular: a Car-Wash! — and this, dear Davidsonians, is your opportunity to see sharp Salemites, circle-pins and all, on their hands and knees washing your car! (if not your car, any car you can bring.) If you’ve ever had a good date at Salem, isn’t this an excellent way to show your appreciation? If you’ve dated nothing but losers here, wouldn’t it be satisfying to see them lowered to the position of scrubwomen? This rare opportunity plus music and refreshments is yours for only twenty thin dimes! Seriously, we do hope that you will bring your cars to Salem to be washed on Saturday, April 15 between ten and four, for the success of this project is vital to our refugee adoption program! The Sophomore Class, the entire student body, and twelve refugee students will be grateful to you!

The Sophomore Class
Salem College

BILL FERRIS

Dear Editor,

In response to Ervin Duggan’s article on Charley Reed several weeks ago, I would like to point out that the situation at Davidson isn’t completely hopeless. There are still a few individuals that have not “been frozen out by the icy blasts of collegiate coolness.” The past ROTC drill period of March 28 was supposedly the toughest of the year. Cadets were inspected by the cadre as well as their cadet officers and there was a solid hour of drill. All this was widely publicized before the drill to ensure a wide sale of tickets to the ROTC Ball, since the purchase of a ticket exempted a cadet from the drill. There were a few who refused to buy a ticket. One of these cadets decided to dress appropriately for the unusual drill. His face was covered with war paint, and a large feather drooped from his ROTC hat. A bayonet hung in his weapons belt, and his shoes were on the wrong feet. Thus prepared for all types of warfare, this brave soldier came to attention. He was soon approached by the serious faces of the cadre and awarded 25 demerits for his efforts. This cadet may fail ROTC, but he has proved that there are a few individuals at Davidson willing to stand up for their beliefs. In the “serried rows” of “identical plants” there are a few unpulled weeds, and I say hats off to them.

Billy Ferris

HOW CAN I PLAY BASEBALL WHEN I’M WORRIED ABOUT FOREIGN POLICY?