Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO (All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1961

North Of Main, East Of New York

In recommending the abolishment of the faculty rule prohibiting drinking by any student attending an off-campus event sponsored in whole
or in part by the college, the Student Council has reflected what seems to be the consensus of student opinion
and what is certainly common sense. The problem involved is not what beverage students use to quench their thirst while
attending a conference hundreds of miles from Davidson, North Carolina, but how their conduct reflects on Davidson College. Every student
should be made aware of his responsibility to represent the college well. If he violates this responsibility, he should be
punished. The general rule regarding gentlemanly conduct is sufficient to this purpose and does not involve the complicated questions of
the enforcement of the rule, its jurisdiction, and its basic justice—questions which the faculty probably could not clarify even if
it should try. We think their recommendation is sound and just.

Caesarean?

The Scripts ‘n’ Pranks is not coming out until February, the staff announced this week, because of a desire for
a “creative” issue. That is probably the best Christmas gift the erstwhile literary-humor magazine could give us during this season
of creativity. The expensive pain inflicted on the campus for the past few years in the form of a magazine
has been horrible to endure. Finally, we are being spared. The plight of the Scripts ‘n’ Pranks is well known
to all. It has been neither a literary nor humor magazine for some time. Recognition for the former quality might
be extended to “Enigma,” the product of the creative writing class, or the freshman writing booklet, but not Scripts ‘n’
Pranks. Editor Jackson won last spring on a platform calling for an end to that pretense. He proposed a humor
magazine with no apologies. The only question was whether he could come up with enough material. Evidently, he couldn’t. At
least not for a fall issue. Then, there is the matter of money, the staff claims. All publications begin squabbling
for “their share” of the student activities fee each fall. The magazine has not fared poorly—either this year or in
the past. Its budget request was not cut $300—just $250. The Finance Committee, after studying the proposed budget, saw no
need to grant it more than $1,950, or $2.05 per student. We can hardly wait to see those two humor
magazines which will cost each of us $1.025 per issue! We wonder if students would have remained apathetic about the
magazine last year if each had known he had shelled out $2.25 for those three miscarriages of the Muse. Editor
Jackson still promises healthy offspring. But, with the Muse’s case history, there is still concern over possible misbirth. Frankly, we
don’t even think she is pregnant! We can only hope for a quick gestation and trust in the fertile mind
of R. D.

Amendment Merits Approval

Those of us who are seniors remember the discussion that was still going on our freshman year over the death
of a student in the dormitories as a result of an accident with a rifle. Since the passage of the
amendment to the Constitution prohibiting firearms in the dorms, the Student Council has tried to relegate all weapons to the
gun room in the basement of Belk. They have been unsuccessful. Students complained of a lack of space and decried
the unavailability of their weapons for hunting trips. Storing guns in fraternity houses has followed too often, and the Student
Council is to be commended for sound proposals to eliminate this hazardous practice. Now that the gun room has been
expanded and checking out procedures streamlined, no student has an excuse for keeping a rifle anywhere except in the basement
of Belk or in the locked trunk of his car. It is too easy to picture another mishap such as
the one that occurred in 1958. This kind of tragedy ought not be repeated, thanks to this important piece of
legislation proposed by the council. It deserves the approval of the student body next Monday.

About Letters

We have always encouraged letters to the editor. We are grateful for those we have received this year, most particularly
those which have been in opposition to our views. It is only in this manner that THE DAVIDSONIAN can create
a profitable exchange of ideas with our readers and also provide them with an opportunity for expressing adverse opinion. However,
we would remind readers that we have a legal and moral responsibility to refrain from printing articles and letters which
are slanderous, libelous, or overly defamatory. Responsible criticism will always be welcome.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF —— David Jordan
BUSINESS MANAGER Gene Adcock
Associate Editors Tom Kirby
Photographer —— Joe McCutchan
Don Saunders Cartoonists Dewy Ackerman
Managing Editors Bill Hopen, Tom Howell, Mac Plaxico
Dan Adams Sports Editor Steve Clark
Assignments Editor —— Jeff Wampler
Feature Editor Bill Roth
News Editor Sam Fort
Advertising Manager —— F. Willer
Circulation Manager —— Clay Alicing
Assistant Bus. Manager —— Rick Finch
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Trask Explains Proposal

BY GEORGE TRASK
Student Body President

The Student Council's proposal to amend the Student Body Constitution “to prohibit the keeping of firearms anywhere on the campus
of Davidson College without the expressed permission of the Student Council” has raised questions in the minds of some students
as to the implications of the amendment. The purpose of this proposed amendment is NOT to outlaw firearms on the
campus but rather to ensure that all firearms are stored safely in places where they will not endanger the lives
of any students. At present, the Council prohibits the keeping of firearms in the dormitories yet ignores such buildings as
the fraternity houses. Presently charged with the responsibility to keep firearms out of the dormitories and to provide a safe
and convenient gun room in the basement of Belk Dormitory, the Council feels that it would itself be responsible, if
only indirectly, for any shooting accident occurring on the campus as a result of student negligence. The Student Council, if
the proposed amendment is passed by the Student Body on Monday, will grant permission to any student to keep his
firearm on the campus if he stores it either in the gun room provided for his use or in the
trunk of his automobile, making sure that the trunk is locked at all times. Permission to keep a pistol on
the campus will not be granted under any circumstances, as the college prohibits the possession of pistols at Davidson.

Resolved: Red Threat Isn’t Really Debatable

BY DON SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Associate Editor

It was over a week ago that the controversial Lewis-Patterson “debate” took place before an angry crowd in steaming Chambers
Auditorium. But “fried Patterson” has been on the menu at almost every meal in the Union and around the fraternity
court. Fulton Lewis III has been dished up diligently as food for the gander. “He really showed that guy Patterson,
didn’t he?” is a standard intonation of thanks and praise.

DIFFERENT APPROACHES

To those who thought last Thursday night’s “spectacular” was a debate, we can only suggest they recall Patterson’s opening statement
and remember how careful he was to discuss Communism as a philosophy, not as a political organization or a fifth-column
movement within the U. S. It was Lewis who set up the straw man of the Communist Party in the
U. S., and from a well-prepared speech proceeded to destroy an argument that never belonged to Patterson.

DEBATE?

The whole question of whether the program was a debate at all is cloudy. Certainly, there was never a clear-cut
topic under discussion; no “affirmative” or “negative” sides were assigned. All the oratorical tricks and gestures were used by both
participants. But all this shows is that a debate is no way to determine the validity of an argument. Both
men guided facts: Lewis from a reservoir he has been paid to accumulate, Patterson from a fund of private research.
Yet Profs. Lloyd and Gandy-Koontz also had facts which their reservoir failed to cover. No one seems to know exactly
what happened in those notorious student riots in California.

ETHICS EXPECTED

We feel Patterson did misjudge his opponent. He expected this young spokesman of the New Conservatism to have enough intellectual
and philosophical arguments at his disposal to carry on a literate discussion of one of the most controversial topics of
our day: how far does the inherent right of the individual, or the group, to...Here is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

free expression extend, and what justification can be made for the silencing of opposition to government policy? REAL QUESTION Clearly
communism is a philosophy totally alien to the American mind. Need we be afraid that the ideas of Harry Bridges
will sway the multitudes of California? Let us keep a sense of proportion and remember the liberal tradition of dissent
on which this nation is founded. To the doctrinaire conservatives we pose a rhetorical question: In what great nation have
the oppressed of many lands found freedom from intellectual tyranny? To what nation did Einstein, Thomas Mann, Tillich, and others
come seeking the right to study and write free from oppression? Last week's debate, we propose, proved nothing except the
Scripts ‘n’ Pranks - Fall Issue 1961. Frakes Mr. Fulton Lewis Jr. has visited the campus, and like Prometheus he
has brought us secrets from the gods on Mt. Olympus. His wisdom must come from the gods—for it is beyond
earthly warlock. We have learned that in dealing with Russia, diplomacy, power, and intransigence are more desirable than aid and
negotiation. More startling, we have learned that Lewis self-disclaimed his assertion that Communism had its inception in the “twisted sick-mind”
of Karl Marx. One can only regret that Freud and psychoanalysis came too late to prevent Das Kapital and all
those nasty things Marx said about 19th-century capitalism. LEWIS'S BAD HABITS More seriously, while Mr. Lewis is not as extreme
as I feared (he is not a Minute Man), he has two bad habits. The first is a tendency to
tell a part of the truth—whether this is intentional or the unwitting result of fervent convictions I do not know—rather
than the whole truth. The reference to Operation Abolition, for instance, never even mentions one important fact which Mr. Lewis
admitted was true in conversation before—namely, that some of the people who organized the protests and picketed the HUAC hearings
in San Francisco were unduped-by-Communists, loyal Americans who find great fault with the Committee and its practices. The film leaves
the impression that everyone who organized the protests, who picketed, or who rioted was either a Communist or the unwitting
dupe of Communists. TELLS PART TRUTHS The film does not tell the whole truth about the opposition to the HUAC
in California. This is the film’s greatest “half-truth” although there are others. In his conversation and statements here at Davidson,
Mr. Lewis over and again demonstrated his tendency to tell only a part of the truth in a way that
is damning for those with whom he disagrees. Mr. Lewis cannot quite resist the temptation—and this is his second bad
habit—to suggest that political and social liberals are inspired by Marx or in some insidious way are under the “influence”
of Communism. Succumbing to this temptation all but precludes any intelligent and informative discussion over the desirability of federal aid
to education, a medical program for the aged, the recognition of Communist China, etc. SENSE OF VALUES Conservatism, if it
is to continue to be a respectable and vital force in American society, must seek spokesmen who can present the
conservative case without presenting half the truth in order to do so. I must find men who can distinguish conservatism
from patriotism, and whose passionate attachment to conservative values does not blind them to the equal loyalty of their liberal
opponents. If men of Mr. Lewis' habits become the representatives of American conservatism, the latter will become an intellectual and
moral sham—unworthy of serious attention. Val Prokes Assistant to Chaplain Edgar Within the past year or so there has been
much weeping, wailing, gnashing of teeth, and even some praise, concerning a certain rejuvenation of conservative sentiment in the U.S.
At least the word, conservative, no longer bears a bad connotation—it is no longer a dirty word. However, the press
in both its editorial and news columns (if the two can be separated) has begun to prefix the word conservative
with “ultra.” Thus where Barry Goldwater used to be a conservative senator from Arizona, he is now called an “ultra-conservative
spokesman” just to make sure that the reader gets the point. There are no more just plain conservatives. BIRCHERS It
is only natural, then, that one of the latest political phenomena, the John Birch Society, has been labeled “ultra-conservative.” Among
other things the Birchers have been labeled as anti-semitics, lunatics, crackpots, and fascists. The product is that they possess a
bad reputation. The result is that the entire conservative strata has been tainted in the public eye by the John
Birch Society. All conservatives are now “ultra,” and we are to be told that it is impossible to separate one
“ultra” from another “ultra.” Liberals have had the same trouble with this sort of distortion. For years we have been
hearing of ‘ultra’ liberals and their socialistic or communistic tendencies from groups such as the Birchers. President Kennedy, in criticizing
this tendency recently, said that these ultra conservatives make the mistake of equating the Democratic Party with the welfare state,
the welfare state with socialism, and socialism with communism. OVERSIMPLIFY It is interesting, however, to find that the same type
of people who have this tremendous revelation regarding the mistaken views of the “ultra” conservatives can turn right around and
equate the Republican Party with “ultra” conservatism, “ultra” conservatism with the John Birch Society, and the John Birch Society with
Fascism. Beware: The tendency toward oversimplification and exaggeration is not a particularly healthy sign in any public servant or teacher
who is guilty of it. At Eadie.
