LOCAL BUSINESSES WON’T SERVE CONGOLESE (See Page Two) Che Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College CAT WRESTLERS IN LOOP TOURNEY (See Page Three) VOL. XLIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1961 NUMBER NINETEEN

Five Presidential Aspirants Debate In Monday Chapel
By JOHN CARSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

A majority of students elected as nominees for student body president on the first ballots. Students will cast votes for one of these next Tuesday, and will continue each succeeding day until a candidate receives a majority vote. Chapel period Monday will be devoted to five-minute speeches by each of the nominees, with the exception of Trask who is at present studying in Europe. His speech will be read by Henry Shue. Monday evening at ten in the Morrison Room of the Student Union, the candidates will hold an open forum, at which time they will answer questions from the floor.

Tony Diaz, from Panama, came to Davidson his freshman year under the Richardson Scholarship Program. He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, of which he was rush chairman this past fall. He played soccer his freshman and sophomore years, and is a member of the Sigma Delta Psi honorary athletic fraternity. He also belongs to the French Club.

Wyche Fowler, from Atlanta, Ga., represented Davidson at the SCONA (Student Conference On National Affairs) this fall. He is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, and is serving this year on the YMCA Cabinet. He played basketball his freshman year.

Ed Grimsley, of High Point, N. C., a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, was elected as a member of the Honor Court last spring. He played soccer his freshman, sophomore, and junior years, and was a member of the Freshman Council.

Joe Martin, from Columbia, S. C., is a Dana Scholar, and is vice president of the Male Chorus. A member and this year rush chairman of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, he also is editor of the fraternity section of Quips and Cranks. His freshman year, Martin was secretary of the Philanthropic Society and served as delegate to the Southern Regional YMCA conference.

George Trask, from Beaufort, S. C., is spending this semester at the University of Vienna under the European Studies Plan of the University of Chicago. He served on the Student Council this year as first vice president, and was a class representative his sophomore year. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

HUGH CANNON begins a reply to President D. Grier Martin during a brief encounter on Davidson education at a coffee hour in the Union following Cannon's Tuesday assembly address.

Glib Grad Hits School, Backs Sanford’s Plans
Hugh Cannon, a distinguished young grad, came back to Davidson last Thursday and talked education and politics. He told President D. Grier Martin that Davidson didn’t need a fine arts building and he told newspaper reporters that Governor Terry Sanford is going to get his public school money.

Cannon and Martin engaged in a brief but spirited exchange of opinion during the coffee hour following Cannon's assembly address. The young lawyer questioned the practical use of at least one of Davidson's brand new buildings. “Davidson needs a fine arts building like a hog needs hip pockets,” he said, suggesting that the money could have been better used for increases in faculty salaries. He commented about the high percentage of Davidson alumni on the faculty. When it was pointed out to him that several of these men had had better offers from other institutions, he replied, “That’s just the point.”

McCord Delivers Next Otts Lecture
Dr. James I. McCord, president of Princeton Theological Seminary, will deliver the third of four Otts Lectures, Tuesday, March 7. The subject of his Tuesday lecture is “The Recovery of The Personal.” In addition to the Otts lecture at 7:30 in the Lingle Chapel, Dr. McCord will speak at vespers Sunday night, to a YMCA forum Monday night at 8:15 in the Union ballroom, in Tuesday Chapel, and in several individual interviews.

A native of Texas, Dr. McCord served as Dean and Professor of Systematic Theology in Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary at the age of 25. He studied at Austin College, Union Theological Seminary, Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary, the University of Texas, Harvard, and the University of Edinburgh. The University of Geneva, Knox College, Maryville College, and Princeton University have given him honorary degrees, as has Davidson (Doctor of Letters). Past president of the North America Area Council of World Churches, Dr. McCord has attended every major ecumenical conference held by the World Council of Churches, founded in 1948.

Dr. McCord follows Dr. Paul Lehman and Dr. Albert Outler, who spoke first semester. Dr. Joseph Sittler will conclude this year’s series on April 16-18. The four men have been directing attention to “Perspectives in Contemporary Theology,” the theme of the 1960-61 Otts Lectures.

Sec.-Treas. Voting Is On Monday
By DAVID JORDAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Ken Kelley was elected first vice-president and John Killian second vice-president of the student body in run-off elections today. Freshman John Spratt and Rick von Unwerth survived balloting for the secretary-treasurer position and will compete in a run-off vote Monday.

Sophomores Kelley and Killian defeated Bob Cordle in the fourth day of voting for vice presidential positions. Balloting began Tuesday, following student body nominations at chapel Monday. In the race for the only student body post open to freshmen, Wiley Horne was eliminated today. He, Spratt, and von Unwerth had remained when Thursday's voting narrowed the field from five to three candidates. Approximately 500 students cast ballots today. The polls were open in the main hall of Chambers from 9 a.m. until 1 p.m. The total number of votes represented slightly over one-half of the student body. Kelley, in winning the top vice presidential spot, continuesto hold a major student government office. This past year he has served as secretary-treasurer of the Student Council. A native of Jacksonville, Fla., he is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He served on last year’s Freshman Council and has been on the swimming team for two years. Killian was also a representative on the Freshman Council last year and has been his class’ representative to the Student Council this year. A member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity, he is from Franklin, N.C. The secretary-treasurer race was forced into another run-off when no candidate succeeded in obtaining 50 percent of the votes cast today. Spratt, from York, S.C., is president of the Beta Theta Pi pledge class. He is presently serving on the Freshman Council. A member of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity, von Unwerth is a DAVIDSONIAN reporter. He has served six months in the Marine Corps and is a native of Augusta, Ga. 

The 14th annual Fine Arts Festival of Davidson College began this evening when Dr. Louis Rubin, educator and author, spoke in the College Union on the subject “The Two Countries of Modern Southern Literature.” The series, which will continue throughout March and April, will also feature such personages as John Crowe Ransom, LeGette Blythe, and Fred Wolfe, brother of the late Thomas Wolfe. 

SOUTH’S GIFTS

The general theme of the festival is “The South's Contribution to Contemporary Arts,” and the activities planned for the two-month period will exemplify this topic. All of the events of the festival are free and open to the public. The second event in this series will be on Wednesday, March 15, at 8:15 p.m. in the Union. At this time there will be a panel discussion of “Thomas Wolfe: His Fiction and His Panel members are: North Carolina Author LeGette Blythe, Professor Richard Walser of N.C. State College, and Fred Wolfe who will serve in an advisory capacity and answer any direct questions put to him.

ART TECHNIQUES

Festival activities will continue on Wednesday, March 22, when North Carolina Artists Raiford Porter, John Brady, and Philip Moose will demonstrate techniques used by contemporary painters. John Aldridge, author of the novel Party at Cranton, will speak here April 14 on “Younger Southern Writers.” Aldridge, who has taught and lectured at various colleges throughout the country, is presently Critic in Residence at Hollins College.

RANSOM SPEAKS

On Thursday, April 27, John Crowe Ransom, poet, critic, and editor-founder of the Kenyon Review, will lecture in conjunction with the arts festival.

(Continued on page four)

Kelley, Killian Win Veep Posts; Spratt, von Unwerth Still Vie

NEW DEAN OF STUDENTS RICHARD BURTS was guest of honor at a special tea last Saturday when he and his family visited the Davidson campus. Pictured above with Dean Frontis Johnston (right) and President D. Grier Martin, the Mercer dean was introduced to members of the administration and student personnel workers. Burts was here primarily to check renovations on the Julia Johnston house (across from Martin’s Manor), where his family will move this summer. While on campus, he conferred informally with Dean John C. Bailey, whom he replaces next fall.

Romulo To Speak For Artist Series

The Davidson College Artist Series will present General Carlos Romulo, famous Philippine statesman and Ambassador to the U.S., to the campus, 8:15 p.m. Friday, in Chambers Auditorium. Ambassador Romulo will speak on “The Asia America Does Not Know.” 

In World War II General Romulo served as General Douglas MacArthur's aide-de-camp in Bataan, Corregidor, and Australia, and accompanied MacArthur and liberating forces in the invasion of Leyte and later in the recapture of Manila. Following the war, Romulo headed the Philippine delegation on several different occasions to the United Nations. 

Gen. Romulo holds the Philippine Congressional Gold Medal of Honor, the United States Legion of Merit, Degree of Commander, and the Golden Heart Presidential Award, the highest Philippine decoration.

What is next for the crumbling brick building that has housed slaves, a missionary-minded widow out to save sinful students, and presently laundry soap? The college is now searching for some new use “fitting” to the historic building's past. This little house, which stands next to the college laundry, was built before the Civil War to house servants for the “Sparrow’s Nest.” A certain Mr. Sparrow, one of the prominent citizens of early Davidson, had built his home on the lot next to the present site of Richardson Dorm.

FOUR DAUGHTERS

He had four attractive daughters who managed to charm a goodly portion of the nearby student body. It became the fashion of the young men to visit the Sparrow home. In time, things got so cozy that the place was fondly spoken of as the “Sparrow's Nest.” All four of the girls, incidentally, managed to marry Davidson men. 

Mr. Sparrow could not, of course, get along without his servants, and in order to have them near he built the red brick building which still stands today at the back of Belk. As time went on, the “Sparrow's Nest” slipped out of the hands of the family. It became one of the cheapest boarding houses in Davidson. A student could eat there for $18 a month and many a student, finding himself in a financial pinch, took his meals at the “Trough.”

RELIGION, BEER

Sparrow’s little brick house continued to see several uses during these years. Perhaps the strangest of all occurred when the college somehow began sponsoring a widow who took up residence there. It became her business to sleep there at night and to sally forth in the daytime giving out religious tracts to the students. Presently, it serves as a storeroom for the college laundry. 

By JIM WILLIAMS Davidsonian Feature Writer

It is filled with sacks of powdered soap, machinery parts, and bottles of various shapes. Although the building has been redone several times since the 1860s, it still appears to be crumbling away. Huge cracks are visible and new brick supports weak spots.

WHAT NOW?

The big question is what’s to become of it now. Robert Currie, college business manager, says that the section between the laundry and Richardson is due for a beauty treatment this spring. Probably the old building will come in for its share of face-lifting. There has been some speculation if it could be put to some real use, since it is one of the oldest buildings on campus. Currie has spoken of the possibility of placing the night watchmen headquarters there with the addition of some kind of night information center for visitors on the campus. Another idea favors placing vending machines there for the use of the student body. Still another suggestion would move the new student bookstore into the old building.

CENTURY-OLD STRUCTURE—better known as “that little house next to the laundry,” has served every purpose from slave quarters to a storeroom for Mr. Stacks. Plans are being made to remodel it this year.