The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Twelve On Trial

This week, as in years past, a letter went out from the dean's office to fraternity presidents containing the dance weekend pledge which the presidents and the next two ranking officers of each fraternity will have to sign in the dean's office Monday morning. That pledge reads as follows:

"I attended the dances and other campus activities of the dance weekend referred to above. To the best of my knowledge and belief, all the above activities were conducted in accordance with the standards of the college. I saw no drinking, nor did I see evidence of the effects of drinking, during the dances, at the fraternity house, or at any campus activity which involved members of my organization."

The regulation requiring this pledge is ridiculously unfair to those involved, particularly since two new factors have entered the picture in the past year. Because of the Honor Court’s move to include all official documents in its interpretation of lying under oath, this pledge is governed by the honor system. Secondly, last year, the student body removed the “under the influence” rule from its regulations. Presidents are now required by the administration to enforce a rule for which the student body, the Student Council, and the Honor Court have clearly cast off responsibility.

But of more concern, is the bind in which they find themselves. Most any president will admit that it is well nigh impossible to go for a weekend without observing the “effects of drinking” on the campus. If he is perfectly honest, he will refuse to sign the pledge—which would probably mean social probation or some punishment for his fraternity. If he compromises to save the fraternity, he violates the Honor System and most serious repercussions could follow. Furthermore, any member of the fraternity aware of the “compromise” is honor bound to turn in the pledge signers to the court for lying. Someone might take the Honor System seriously; it would be a messy problem for the court.

Years ago, another pledge was required, covering off-campus affairs. It was discontinued by former Dean Bailey. The on-campus pledge was retained, but kept deliberately vague. No one has ever been specific about just what it implied or what penalty would ensue if it were not signed. Fraternity presidents have been forced either to turn their heads, or get others to sign the pledge, excusing themselves on the basis of not having attended all affairs.

Deliberate vagueness is no longer possible. The new Honor System interpretation seeks to eliminate just such vagueness in all areas affected by the system. Honor Court Chairman Harrison Welford, President George Trask, and this editor appealed to the Executive Committee several weeks ago to reconsider this pledge and eliminate it or change policy concerning it. A special request was made for a decision to come before this weekend. No word has been heard from them. We sympathize with those 36 men and their unpleasant duty and unfair obligation Monday morning.

Don't Drive “Carefully” - Don't Drive!

Someone told us the other day, “I consider my car as my own private property. The college has no jurisdiction over what I keep in it.” This fellow had been duped, of course. The administration this year made it very specific that if a student’s car is on college property, the college has the right to search it if it so desires.

Whether the student body approves or disapproves of this is irrelevant at the moment. But consider the possibilities of the idea that a car is a bit of private property in a wilderness of college-owned land. Or, to reverse an image, a car is a wet haven on a dry sea....

--A new fad sweeps the campus: the “car-party.” Ten or 15 carloads of couples form a circle with their cars, like the covered-wagon circles of old. A well-known combo sets up in the middle, and the party “takes off.” (Have you ever tried to twist sitting down?)

--Rush Wilson stocks the latest Ivy League accessory, the car-bar. Manufactured for the college trade, these unusual gadgets fit the glove compartment door, to be closed and locked up when not in use.

--The legal hassles might be tremendous. Could students riot from cars, when they are not even allowed to throw water in the dormitories? Would the Davidson Lion’s Club be permitted to sell coke and ice to students after 11:45 p.m.? The overworked Honor Court would have to spend hours in deliberation.

In this mechanized age the automobile has been the source of numerous developments, anyway—the drive-in movie, the lovers’ lane. Why not the “car-party”?

D.B.S.

And, we can all be proud of the college publicity panderers who have told every important Southern newspaper that we are “enthused” about our new wildcat, which is no “tame tabby.” I enthuse, you enthuse, he enthuses, we are enthused about the creation of a new English word at Davidson; we're no tame tabbies.

L. K.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Lee Kirby

BUSINESS MANAGER
Don Saunders

Associate Editors
John A. Carson
Mac Plaxico

Managing Editors
Steve Clark
Bill Hagen

Assignments Editor
Rick von Unwerth

Feature Editor
David Jordan

Gene Adcock
Photographer

Joe McCutchen
Cartoonists

Doug Ackerman
Joe Howell
Dan Adams

Advertising Manager
Ed Willer

Circulation Manager
Bob Llewellyn

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Thus Saith Isaiah
By Ackerman

German Student Views Reunification Question
BY JURGEN HYE
Richardson Scholar

I would like to dissent with the opinion presented by Lee Kirby in the last DAVIDSONIAN. Let me begin with the point that there can be no reunification if the German people and the “two German Governments” do not want a reunification.

Kirby points out that there are undercurrents of dissension in the Federal Republic of Germany and in the so-called German Democratic Republic. He says the rightist Catholic CDU has a vested interest in the division of Germany, since unification with East Germany would mean a loss of its present power. East Germany is made up almost entirely of Protestants and “Communists”. From this statement, we must draw the conclusion that West Germany's internal politics is a matter of religion. To correct this opinion I want to present some facts.

In West Germany the Catholics number about 43 percent of the population, but the federal election for the Bundestag ran 51 percent with only 43 percent Catholics. Where are the 26 percent of Protestants in favor of the SPD and where did the CDU get 8 percent of the votes of non-Catholics? Another example: my hometown (Schweinfurt) has a majority of Catholics. Despite this fact the mayor and most of the City Counsellors are Social Democrats. The conclusion is that the supporters of the CDU come from all the nonsocialist circles of the population and not from the Catholics only. The name, Christian Democratic Party, characterizes the fundamentals of the party's program, which demands Christian responsibility for political conduct. Protestants are regarded as Christians, too. The CDU does not have to fear the Protestants of East Germany. Most of the refugees join the CDU or support its opinion.

The ideas of the Federal Government have been based on the principle that German Reunification must come about by peaceful means only and in freedom. The Four-power Conference in Berlin in 1954 put forth the following proposals for German reunification: Free elections throughout Germany and the convocation of a national assembly resulting from these elections. The CDU agreement shows that the CDU does not fear the Protestants of East Germany. The Soviet Union rejected these proposals. There are many other examples of the efforts the CDU made for reunification.

Kirby says further: “Many East Germans are proud of their own more limited recovery and in part, idealistic about the prospects of building a Socialist state in the homeland of Marx and Engels,” and “... reunification will endanger the success of their Socialist experiment.” That sounds like East German propaganda. I do not need to go into details, because some facts make these sentences ridiculous. Is it pride in the “success” of the Socialist experiment that caused four million people to leave East Germany or caused men to fight against tanks with their fists, with sticks, and with stones? These actions came only from desperation.

In conclusion, I wish to say that the internal politics of the Federal Republic are not a matter of religion, that the Federal Government, which means the CDU, has a vested interest in the reunification, and that, I dare to say, 90 percent of the East German population is against the regime ofEast Germany, which is dictated by the Soviet government.

Crafty Coeds | Shoot The Shaft
BY JOHN A. CARSON
Davidsonian Managing Editor

With the announcement of another Dance Weekend, the Davidson Post Office is suddenly swamped with letters to girls’ schools near and far. The answers flow in one by one. For many, they are in the form of a grateful “yes,” but, alack, there are always those who receive the inevitable shaft.

Shaft letters come in a wide variety of types and manners. Some are of the “oh so sincere” (in fact, often nauseating) variety; others, a bit more blunt, “thank you, but...” while still others are downright nasty, the “would you please quit bothering me” type. We are indebted to Joe Martin, president of Beta Theta Pi, for the following excerpts from actual letters written to Betas upon various dance weekends. The names have been omitted to protect the shafted.

A “martyress” from Salem writes: “You were so sweet to ask me to Homecoming, but I can’t possibly come. I have to attend a YWCA meeting in Durham that weekend...”

Not quite so noble, but equally sincere is this poor lass: “I’d love to come to your Homecoming weekend, no kidding it sounds so ‘bitchin,’ but I’ve got Saturday classes that are impossible to cut as well as Friday classes, and to be quite blunt...”

Speaking of studies, how’s this one: “I have been out of town for the past two weekends and just cannot neglect my studies again...”

Thinking that excuse didn’t sound too hot, she tried to smooth matters out, helpfully adding: “If there is anything I can do to help you get someone who can come up, please just let me know...”

Here indeed is a real heart-breaker: “I really wish I could come up for the weekend of Oct. 22, but unfortunately Florida plays some silly team and I have already accepted an invitation to that. I really do wish I could come up, because I know we’d have fun...”

The cruel hand of Fate often steps in to upset would-be romances. Who would have ever guessed that: “Gosh, the weekend of Oct. 22 really sounds fabulous! I really can’t think of anything I’d rather do. There’s only one drawback—Sunday afternoon my parents called and said that my sister got engaged Friday night, and...”

From Mary Baldwin comes this excellent self-evaluation: “Boy, are you going to think I’m stupid! When I wrote accepting your invitation I already had a date for V.M.I. Midwinters, but I didn’t realize that both your Midwinters and their Midwinters were the same. Since I already had that date, I’m afraid...”

One thing about this girl, you’ve got to admit she’s honest: “I am sorry to have waited so late before answering your letter. I will not be able to come to Davidson for Midwinters. I also really think it would be better if we don’t date or write any more.”

And, finally, from W.C. we get the last word: “I understand everything in your letter very well. There’s no misunderstanding or anything. However, a lot has happened since I saw you last. I have been dating off and on since Christmas, and at the present time I’m not dating anybody else. I really and truly feel that we both would be better off not writing or dating each other...”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Love, Pruitt Proclaims Davidson’s Culture-Consciousness
Pruitt

Dear Editor:

There may be a culture anemia rampant at Davidson, but it seems the editor would inform himself further before expressing himself about it. The editorial on this subject in the last DAVIDSONIAN reminds me of the misstatements made last year regarding that oasis of culture in a desert of apathy, the Fine Arts Building. You have hinted that the gala dedication of this edifice might be a flash in the pan affair and that gimmicks (i.e. “different” approaches) are necessary to lure the pin-up loving Davidson Gentleman into culture.

First, I do not think that the Davidson student is so starved. Culture is not something to lure people into as if it were a side show at a circus. The result of that would probably be the country-club-culture name-droppers, of which we have plenty. And the Male chorus is not such a glaring exception as you may think.

In the last three years attendance at organ concerts has increased, the band has a woodwind ensemble (will have two) and a brass ensemble in addition to its rejuvenated concert capacity. Not to mention the music convocation being repeated this year.

Second, an approach similar to the Vagabonds last year is not desirable or necessary. The result of such efforts is a back-breaking responsibility on a few, sloppy productions resulting from an overly ambitious program, and, for many, neglect of studies for a worthy, but overly emphasized, cause.

Lastly, the abundance of clubs and organizations are in many cases remnants of once vital groups which are left over in a hibernating state, but to wake them all up would be more than the surprisingly few who keep them in existence could do. They are not necessary. A student body of our size does not need to try for such diversification. We can't have everything and do everything. A genuine interest in these clubs and in the fine arts on the part of the entire student body would be a boon to us all, but a crash program to “cultivate” us all would be a fiasco.

Lastly (again, as the preacher said), I should like THE DAVIDSONIAN to inform itself adequately on these issues (including the articles on foreign students and studies) before giving its words of wisdom. Agitation for its own sake is ridiculous. And it’s worse if it is not informed.

Bill Pruitt

Harding

Dear Editor:

I read with interest your article last week about the Foreign students, but would like to cast more light on what must by now be a perennial question—What is the function of the Richardson Scholars?

As I see it the main purpose of having Richardson scholars at Davidson is so that they can promote and foster an interest in their respective countries. Indeed, a knowledge of the background and traditions of countries less than a day's journey away should constitute an essential part of the education of “The Davidson Gentleman,” and it is a pity that the vast potential of knowledge available is not being more readily tapped. Why is this and what are the Richardson Scholars doing?

Well, as we have come to a college, we are expected to work. We know this, you know this, and the faculty knows this. However, so much emphasis is placed on our academic work, for which few of us, if any, receive credit in our own countries, that those students whose command of the language leaves room for improvement find that they have to spend much of their spare time immersed in their studies to keep abreast with the natives.

On top of any individual engagements that we may have, some very worthwhile excursions are arranged for us which we really do appreciate. However, these necessitate our missing classes and these cannot but have an adverse effect on our grades as they are not easily made up.

Below are a couple of proposals that I feel would help to restore the balance between what we get out of Davidson and what we put in by giving us more time to discharge our obligations to the student body.

Work of Richardson Scholars should be evaluated on an individual basis. The students should not be graded relative to the American system of marking where their grades would not afford an accurate indication of how hard they had worked. Also, they should be excused work that they miss when giving lectures away from the campus and when participating in organized excursions, unless the work missed is directly related to the work proceeding it. They would have to make up a class which was part of a sequence of classes.

There will be many people who will resent my criticism and my “biting the hand that feeds me” (that is understandable), but surely in a progressive college such as Davidson there is room for constructive suggestions from whatever quarter they may come. I hope that they will each be considered on their own merits and I personally feel that should they be put into practice it will result in the Richardson Scholars becoming a more integral part of Davidson Society to the mutual benefit of all.

S. M. Harding
Richardson Scholar

THE DAVIDSONIAN appreciates the expression of the spectrum of student opinion which it has received in letters to the editor in the past weeks. We hope it will continue, and remind our readers please to limit their letters to 250 words, double-spaced, typed. We also welcome longer articles, but request that they be cleared with the editor. Letters should be received no later than 6 p.m. Wednesday. The mailing address is Box 218, Davidson, N. C.