COLLEGE PRESS AND ITS FREEDOM (See Page Two) 

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

(SOCCER TEAM ENDS SEASON See Page Three)

VOL. L

Lewis And Patterson To Air Red-Hot Topic
BY GEORGE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Fulton Lewis III, noted conservative spokesman, will arrive in Davidson Thursday, Nov. 30, for a program with economics professor Dr. Ernest F. Patterson on the role of the House Committee on Un-American Activities in combating Communism. “This program should be extremely educational and beneficial for all students,” declared Bill Denham, who along with Tom Ross is responsible for the YMCA’s securing Lewis. Denham then added, “Mr. Lewis is a real sharp guy.”

Although it is not yet certain whether it will be a debate or a discussion, the Patterson-Lewis program will be held Thursday night at 8:30 in Chambers auditorium. Earlier that morning during chapel Lewis will speak on a subject of his own choosing. “There is also the possibility of a coffee hour after chapel and a talk at one of the fraternity houses that afternoon,” Denham stated and then went on to say that the YMCA was open for an invitation from any fraternity which wanted Lewis as a guest for lunch.

The Patterson-Lewis program will be both a follow-up to last year's showing of the film “Operation Abolition” by the ROTC department and the first of a series of YMCA programs this year on Communism. Lewis was technical director of “Operation Abolition” and served for 22 years as a research analyst for the HUAC, during which time he witnessed the student riots against the Committee hearings in San Francisco in May of 1960. “Operation Abolition” is a documentary film on these riots.

Holiday Cuts Policy Remains Unaltered

In action taken last week the Executive Committee of the Faculty turned down a request by a student to put into effect single cuts during the days preceding the Christmas holidays for those who must leave early in order to begin jobs. “This action was taken strictly in view of the calendar,” said Dean Burts, “and does not set a precedent for future years.” Since there is already a nine-day holiday before Christmas, the committee felt any further concession to be unnecessary. However, in years in which the preceding vacation is not so long, single cuts may possibly be put into effect.

Chapman Reviews ROTC Department

Maj. Gen. Ethan Allan Chapman, Commanding General of the XII U. S. Army Corps, will inspect the Davidson ROTC Department and review the ROTC Cadet Corps on Dec. 5. Gen. Chapman is a graduate of United States Military Academy in the class of 1933. During World War II, he served with Allied Force Headquarters in Italy. Following the war he was executive officer to Gen. Alfred N. Gruenther, who was then Army deputy chief of staff for plans; later he was assigned to SHAPE in Paris and served on the staff of Generals Eisenhower, Ridgeway, and Gruenther. More recently he was deputy chief of staff for administration with the Eighth U. S. Army in Korea and served as Seventh Infantry Division Artillery Commander. His last assignment was as assistant deputy chief of staff for the North American Air Defense Command. Then in September of this year, he was sent to Atlanta as XII Corps Commander.

On his visit to Davidson, Gen. Chapman will inspect the facilities of the ROTC Department. He will have lunch with college officials and then inspect the Corps of Cadets in a review at Richardson Field. This inspection is held each year at the invitation of Davidson’s ROTC Department to the XII Corps Commander.

Circuit-Riding Poet Will Visit Davidson

Late in the evening of Nov. 11, the recently constructed Cunningham Fine Arts Center lost its standing as Davidson’s newest building. Several unknown students, eager to add another building to the campus, placed alongside the utilitarian Chambers building an equally useful structure. Its previous owner was not available for comment when the building and the Sears Roebuck catalog that it contained were removed by college authorities. (Staff Photo by McCutchen.)

Tillich Concludes Lectures

At Saturday Convocation, Dr. Paul Tillich will conclude his three-day visit to the Davidson campus tomorrow when he addresses the second annual Sacred Music Convocation. The convocation will be meeting all day Saturday in the College Church and the Fine Arts Building.

Council Redefines ‘Campus’

In direct opposition to the faculty’s Executive Committee definition of the college campus as the town limits of Davidson, the Student Council reaffirmed a two-year-old council interpretation of the campus as “College property east of Main Street and north of Concord Road.” “This is merely to limit the jurisdiction of the Student Council to a very clearly defined area,” commented Student Body President George Trask.

The Christmas Gift Fund Committee of the YMCA has lined up four distinctive projects that it feels are worthy of student support. The student body will select the one they prefer to contribute to in an election on Nov. 27. Each of the projects will have been presented to the student body before the election, which will be the day after Thanksgiving vacation ends. The winning project will receive the money from the YMCA Gift Fund Drive which will be held from Dec. 4 through Dec. 8.

Potential Projects

Two of the potential areas for aid have already been presented in assembly. On Tuesday, students were told of the need for a reading room for Japanese students in a tuberculosis sanitarium in Tokyo. If this project is chosen, the money will go toward building the room and furnishing books. Yesterday, students were informed of the Fresh Air Fund, a project sponsored by the New York Herald Tribune newspaper and magazine. It gives an opportunity for children from slum areas to attend camp for two-week periods in the summer. On Monday, a project to buy laboratory equipment and textbooks for Taijon College in Korea will be presented. This newly-established college is finding it difficult to begin full operation because of its lack of equipment and books.

One Project Local

Bob Stone will present the fourth project, which is local in nature.Present the fourth project to any interested students in a voluntary chapel in Chambers Auditorium next Wednesday. Stone brought the project to the attention of the Gift Fund Committee last Monday, too late for it to be given council’s “campus” will apply to drinking and gambling regulations; however, the town limit ruling will serve for “campusing” decisions. The Executive Committee's definition of gambling as “an organized game of skill or chance, the main purpose of which is the accumulation of money and in which more than two people are involved" was endorsed by the council. Trask also announced that Tony Diaz and another student, in First S in regular chapel. He proposes that student money go to the John Luke Memorial Community Center in Glendale Springs, N.C. The people there cannot afford a heating system for their new community center. Some of the money would be left over to help furnish the building. John Williams, co-chairman of the Gift Fund Committee, is in charge of the presentations in assembly. Bob Moore, the other co-chairman, is this year's director of the Financial Drive.

$4,000 GOAL

Moore said that the goal has been set at $4,000. “Last year we gave about $3,000 but I believe that if every student gives half as much as he is capable of giving, this year’s goal can be reached,” he said. Moore added that there will be a student on each dormitory hall to solicit funds. This student will contact everyone on his hall and give him a Gift Fund envelope.

Cumming Finds Error — Settlement Site

Dr. William P. Cumming has the Atlantic coast from Florida to South Carolina in an uproar because of the scholarly map study he did in Europe in 1958-59. Dr. Cumming found a map in the Museo Naval in Madrid which will have a profound influence on the pinpointing of coastal historical points and which already proves that one U.S. Government historical marker is in the wrong spot. The Department of the Interior placed a ten thousand dollar monument on the tip of Parris Island, S.C., to supposedly mark the spot of the first settlement in North America, made by French Huguenots under the leadership of Jean Ribault in 1562.

CONCLUSIVE PROOF

An old fort was found at the spot by a Major Osterhout of the Marines. The South Carolina Historical Association maintained that Charlesfort, the original settlement, was located at another site on the island. Dr. Cumming’s map, drawn by a member of Ribault’s expedition, proves conclusively that the actual site of Charlesfort is within the town limits of Port Royal, on nearby Beaufort Island. The coast from the St. Johns River in Florida to upper South Carolina is preparing to celebrate its quadricentennial, dating from Ribault’s first settlement next spring. The whole area is interested in the almost 50 names shown on the map whose locations have long been uncertain.

HISTORICAL BENEFIT

A Hilton Head Island historian has already written to Dr. Cumming, asking him to come there with his photo-copy of the original map and aid in the setting up of historical markers on the island. On Friday, a representative of the Charleston, S.C., Courier is expected to talk to Dr. Cumming about the fort site. There is no doubt that (Continued On Page Four)

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The second Reynolds Lecturer of the year, and a noted theologian, Dr. Tillich will speak on “The Expression of Religion Through Liturgy and the Arts.” His talk is scheduled for 10 a.m. in Hodson Hall. Tonight, he speaks on “Dynamics of Faith,” also in the Fine Arts Building.

WORKSHOP

The convocation will run all day with a special luncheon planned for those attending in the College Church. Registration will begin at 9 a.m. A featured part of the convocation will be a workshop conducted by Dr. Oswald Ragatz, university organist for Indiana University. One of the nation’s prominent young organists, Dr. Ragatz will talk on “Phrasing and Articulation in Organ Music—the Organists' Salvation.”

MALE CHORUS

The morning session will be held in the Fine Arts Center. Following Dr. Tillich’s address, there will be a symposium on Liturgical Practice in the Reformed Church Tradition. Participants will include Dr. George Staples, college chaplain; Dr. Ragatz; Dr. Lord; and the Rev. John W. Vannorsdall, Lutheran minister to students at Cornell.

The Male Chorus will open the convocation with a concert of sacred music. They will sing portions of “Missa Sar Regina” by Jean Langlais. It will be one of the first performances of that work in the United States. They will be accompanied by the brass ensemble.

INSTRUMENT SOLOS

The concert will also highlight solo performances with various instruments. Bill Proitt will play an organ solo, and Joe Robinson, the oboe. Dr. Ragatz will conclude the convocation with a recital on the Frank Schlicker organ. This recital will show the role of the organ in church music from the Baroque period through contemporary times. Special displays are being furnished for the convocation by the Church Service Society, Music Ministry, published by the Methodist Church, and Brodt Music Company of Charlotte.

Chemical Society Receives Eleven

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemical fraternity, initiated 11 new members at its regular meeting last Tuesday night. Among those inducted were: Harold Fisher, Eugene Wells, Stefan Young, David Dakin, George Neely, Alexander Teass, Paul Purington, Thomas Sparrow, Gorden Mitchell, Routt Keiter, and John Goodin. Dr. J. G. Martin announced that Dr. John Turkevich, Phi Beta Kappa lecturer, will speak on “The World of Fine Particles” on Nov. 27 in the Martin Science Hall. This lecture is sponsored jointly by the chemistry department and Gamma Sigma Epsilon. It will be open to the public. Faculty advisor R. W. Gable also announced that Paul D. Whitner of Winthrop College will speak on “Carcinogenic Compounds” at the next meeting Dec. 5.

Circuit riding has returned to North Carolina. Gone are the days of the hell-fire-and-damnation, horseback-riding preacher. But in his stead has arisen the poet ably equipped with an automobile. The first such poet to invade the Presbyterian stronghold of Davidson will be George Garrett, who will read here on Nov. 30. Garrett, who in his time has been a bartender, football coach, prospector for Texaco, college professor, soldier, and poet, will be the first circuit rider in the newly-formed North Carolina Poetry Circuit. The diversified poet, a native of Florida and a graduate of Princeton, is a member of the faculty of Rice Institute in Texas. In 1959 he won the Grand Prix de Rome and the “Sewanee Review” Fellowship. In 1960 he had a Ford Foundation Fellowship for study at the Alley Theater in Houston. He is poetry editor for the “Transatlantic Review,” has published two novels, a book of short stories, and three collections of poetry, the latest of which is “Abraham's Knife.” Turned up in a gleaning of the Davidson library was a copy of an earlier collection entitled “The Sleeping Gypsy and Other Poems.” The Poetry Circuit is being sponsored by the Poetry Center of New York City and the University of North Carolina Press. Contributions from the member schools will make it possible for two poets to ride circuit each year. Seven Tar Heel schools will participate in the first ride. They are Davidson, UNC, State, WC, Duke, Wake Forest, and East Carolina. Joining the group in time for the second ride will be Hollins. Circuit readings are open to the public at no admission charge, provided there is space. But Garrett will depart from Davidson $120 richer, the amount each member school is contributing for each poet's visit.

Wellford's Piqued

Harrison Wellford, judge of the Honor Court, expressed the court's dissatisfaction Wednesday with the Student Council’s ruling on “Campus.” He gave THE DAVIDSONIAN an official statement which read: “The Honor Court would like to express its disappointment at the decision of the Student Council in defining the campus limits of Davidson College, particularly since this decision was made without any effort to consult the opinion of the court. The court had hoped that this year would be the occasion of greater cooperation between the court and the council in matters of this nature.”

At the meeting Wednesday, the Student Council at the University of North Carolina, Davidson will participate in a Human Rights seminar in Chapel Hill, December 9-10. The seminar’s theme will be “What Now In Human Rights?” Representatives will be chosen from applications submitted to Trask, including an essay on the applicant's reasons for wishing to attend. The program is sponsored by the National Student Association, the YMCA, and the YWCA.