MILLNER DEFENDS EDITORIAL RIGHT (See Page Two)

Leshem And Panel Debate ‘Exodus’ Issue

TEMPERS FLARED and caustic remarks were exchanged in the Book-of-the-Year discussion Wednesday night. Leon Uris was quizzed by a panel
of faculty members and visitors on some basic principles of Israeli nationalism. Panel members pictured above are: Dr. Ernest Patterson,
Rabbi Israel Gerber, Edmunds Hanauer, and Dr. Daniel Rhodes. At right are Consul Moshe Leshem and Uris. Picture left: Uris
speaking in chapel Thursday.

Author Of ‘Exodus’ Felt He Had A Best Seller
By KNOX ABERNETHY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Wednesday afternoon, Uris was in the Guest House. THE DAVIDSONIAN staff traipsed across the campus to meet the big guest.
As they were introduced to Uris, two strangers wandered into the room. They were not introduced but sat down on
the sofa anyway. Everyone was seated, staring at Uris, who looked tired and bored. A tall man in shirt-sleeves came
in, introduced by Uris as his friend, Mr. Leshem, from the Israeli consulate in Atlanta.

SMALL TALK

The small talk began. Why did Uris accept the invitation to come to Davidson? Uris replied that he had business
in the east and also wanted to see Leshem. Then one of the strangers started in—a short, dark, curly-haired student.
What about the reviews of Exodus, that the book is a distortion of history? “Which reviews? There were 900 reviews
of Exodus and they were a hundred to one favorable,” came Uris’s reply.

ATTACK CHANGED

The attack changed; don’t the Zionists view the Jews as a race instead of a religious group?

Marlin Gives Details On Congo Students

President D. Grier Martin announced Wednesday that the three Congolese students who may attend Davidson next year will not be
Richardson Scholars. They will be sponsored by the Board of World Missions, who will secure scholarships for them. Martin indicated
that their applications would be processed “more nearly the way we process any foreign student” when they apply. He said
they have not applied yet. When asked to comment on the speculation that the students would be white missionaries’ sons,
Martin stated, “No, these are not missionaries’ sons.” Martin told of a letter he received several days ago from nine
Davidson alumni in the Congo approving the action of the Trustees and stating their “conviction of its importance.” Mrs. Moore,
Supervisor of Dormitories, indicated that the Congolese students will probably be placed in upperclassmen dormitories. She said that she has
“had three students already volunteer to room with the Congolese students.”

Leshem replied while Uris drummed his fingers. Jews are an ethnic group, he stressed. After Leshem had traced the development
and history of Judaism and the state of Israel, there was opportunity for an interruption. After a few barbed comments,
the fight was put off until that night's panel, and the small talk resumed. Concerning Uris's quote in Time, in
which he is reported as citing Exodus’s sales record as proof of its literary merit, Uris replied, “What I have
to say is between the covers of a book.” He professed no argument with Time, though he considered it less
than objective.

‘EXODUS’ INSPIRATION

Uris explained that Exodus was not inspired by any particular incident, but had been triggered more by the Declaration of
Independence of the State of Israel than by anything else. “They took their guns in their hands and solved their
own problems.” He used the phrase “a good piece of fiction at the right time” in reply to a question
about the impact of Exodus. “I felt like I had a big book all the time,” he commented.

MOVIES

In reference to movies, he felt that he got more satisfaction out of writing a book than from turning out
a film, because it was more of an individual accomplishment. Nevertheless, he commented that he found film work very exciting.
Exodus Revisited, he said, was the result of a trip through Israel with a Greek photographer friend, and they just
happened to take pictures. They later realized that they had material for a book, and Exodus Revisited was the result.
“I always had a yen to write; it’s my way of expressing myself. Other people steal; others rape: I write,"
Uris responded to the question of why he became a writer.

FUTURE BLANK

He then got on to his future plans, which involved going to Europe shortly after he left Davidson to start
work on another novel about post-war Berlin, particularly the airlift, which he felt was “one of the most important battles
of the twentieth century.” He explained that he had to make all sorts of contacts with the Air Force, interpreters,
and government officials, and then do very extensive research in books, films, and travel. He pointed out that research for
his books generally took much longer than the writing.

NEW NOVEL

His new novel, Mila 18, will be published in June. The product of several years’ work, it concerns the Warsaw
Ghetto. Uris was now ready to lie down and take a nap. The party broke up; the strangers turned out
to be two students from William and Mary—the editor and associate editor of the College newspaper. They had a special
bone to pick with Uris. They were representatives of the American Council of Judaism, an organization bitterly opposed to Zionism.
They kept picking throughout Uris’ stay.

Phi Bete

Seven seniors accepted bids to Phi Beta Kappa yesterday. They are Hutton Barron, Roger Beebe, Jim Bootle, Bill Martin, Henry
MacFadyen, Robert L. Moore, and Tom Parker. For the first time in several years, no junior was bid for spring
initiation. Current members of the scholastic honor group are Jim Anderson, Henry Shue, Jim Burke, Tom Hudgins, Mike Grant, Hansford
Epes, and Spiro Macris.

Hutton Barron is from Eufaula, Ala. He is a math major and a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity. He
represents the senior class on the Student Council. Barron is also a member of Delta Phi Alpha and Gamma Sigma
Epsilon, and served as business manager for Scripts ‘n’ Pranks. He is in “Who’s Who.”

Roger Beebe, a track letterman from Atlanta, is a member of Phi Delta Theta. He is a pre-med major. Beebe
spent his junior year abroad.

Jim Bootle, from Macon, Ga., is a pre-med major. He has been a Student Council vice-president and was judge.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1961

CAGERS BID FOR TOURNEY SLOT (See Page Three)

NUMBER EIGHTEEN

Council Throws Out Plans

Nominations Begin Monday For Student Body Officers

Ned Davis, chairman of the 1961 Elections Board, has announced that the board will accept nominations for student body officers
next Monday, Feb. 27. Voting will begin the following Tuesday. According to the constitution, anyone nominated for president must be
a rising senior. The first and second vice-presidents must be rising juniors, while those nominated for secretary-treasurer must be rising
sophomores.

LIST POSTED

Nominations will be made during assembly Monday morning. The list of those nominated will be posted in the lobby of
Chambers, in the Union, and in the library no later than noon the same day. Those nominated must go by
Ned Davis’ room, 214 Richardson before 12 p.m. Monday and hand in a written statement saying, “I signify my willingness
to be a candidate.”For the office for which I have been nominated and to abide by the regulations concerning this
election.” The nominations will be closed at 12 midnight. The board also adopted the rules which will govern the elections
this year. They read as follows: “Open discussion of candidates and issues shall be legal and is encouraged. However, combines
or efforts to encourage bloc voting or vote swapping along organizational lines, e.g., fraternity or inter-fraternity agreements to support or
oppose a candidate shall be illegal.

NO FINANCES

“Any financial support for any candidate in any form shall be illegal. “The penalty for violation of any of these
rules shall be the loss of voting privileges for all individuals involved and a fine of from $50.00 to $100.00
to be levied against all organizations involved.”

Voting on those nominated will take place Tuesday. The polls will be located in the lobby of Chambers and will
be open from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. “We're trying to make it as easy as possible for the students
to vote during the election,” said Davis. “Our elections have always been hurt by Davidson's ‘disinterested majority’; not enough people
have taken the time to cast ballots.

Extends Bids To Seven of the Cou

SPEECHES

“We hope to have everyone participate in the '61 elections, however. Everybody will be in Chambers sometime during the morning.
It shouldn’t be any trouble to stop in the lobby for a minute and vote. If a person doesn’t vote
he’s got no right to gripe about the officers he let someone else put in office for him.”

Run-offs for the elections will be conducted throughout the week. As soon as no more than five candidates for each
office have obtained at least 51% of the votes, speeches will be made in a student assembly. The Elections Board
is considering proposing a change in the student constitution. Under consideration is a plan to have each person announce his
own candidacy for office, instead of having someone else place his name in nomination. This plan will not affect this
year's election.

Scholarship Finals Begin Next Week

Between 35 and 40 finalists will arrive on campus next week for competition in Davidson's scholarship program. Scholarship Weekend will
begin Wednesday evening, March 1, and end on Saturday, March 4. As usual, the finalists will be divided into two
groups. A banquet will be held for group A on Thursday night, and for group B on Friday. Interviews with
the scholarship committee will be held all day Thursday and Friday. The names of the finalists will be released as
soon as the members of each group are decided upon. Nine southern states and the District of Columbia will be
represented. While on campus the finalists will visit classes, eat in fraternity houses, and be given a series of tests.
Scholarship awards will be announced about two weeks after this weekend.

Control. He is a member of AED and Phi Delta Theta, Who’s Who, and Omicron Delta Kappa, and was a
representative on the IFC. Bill Martin, a member of Alpha Tau Omega, is in history honors. He is from Longview,
Texas, and was a lieutenant in the ROTC first semester. Henry MacFadyen, also recently returned from a junior year abroad,
is from Lenoir, N.C. He is a German major and is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon. Robert L. Moore,
from Harrisonburg, Va., is also in history honors. He is associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, in “Who's Who,” a member
of the Honor Court, ODK, and Alpha Tau Omega. He is a member of Scabbard and Blade and was a
staff officer with the rank of major in the ROTC. Tom Parker is from Greenville, S.C., and a member of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon. He is an English major, is in Scabbard and Blade, was president of the Junior class, and
is in “Who’s Who.”

For Proposed Judicial Board No Official Vote Taken After Full Discussion

By RICK von UNWERTH

Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Student Council has decided, without official Davidsonian vote, not to include a separate Judicial Board for trial of Student
Body Regulations in the new constitution. Dr. W. G. McGavock, Dr. B. D. Thompson, and several members of the Honor
Court were invited to discuss the Judicial Board with the council at its meeting Monday night. The proposal for a
Judicial Board was rescinded by a vote of six to five at the meeting last week. Because of the close
vote, the subject was re-opened for discussion this week. The two professors were asked to give their opinions and comment
on the present Honor System and enforcement of the Student Body Regulations. Both men expressed a desire to have a
more thorough education of students in the Davidson Honor System. “Some process of orientation in the Honor System is necessary
before a student can place himself under its jurisdiction," McGavock suggested. “If you don’t have the support of a great
majority of the students, you won’t be able to make the system work.” “But,” he said, “you would run the
risk of making the Honor Court fairly inactive, and a two-court situation may be too complex, because a question may
arise as to which court has jurisdiction.” McGavock further stated that “pressure on a five-man court of the type suggested
might make difficult an objective attitude on a decision that might result in unpopular action.” On the issue of a
two-court system, Thompson said, “There is little difference in the form of the court. It is the will of the
student body, not just the Student Council that makes it work.” He went on to say that “the fact that
you draw such a distinction between honor-bound and duty-bound, Honor Court and Judicial Board would make the rules difficult to
enforce. The main question is how to strengthen the desire on the part of the students to enforce the rules.”
After long discussion, the council agreed that a separate court would not be practical. It was suggested, however, that the
name “Honor Court" be changed to indicate a wider range of jurisdiction. This will be discussed at a later Student
Council meeting. Jack Taylor suggested that the Student Council propose a three-stage program to strengthen the existing Honor System. This
would include a definition of the rules, indoctrination of incoming freshmen in the principles and regulations of the system, and
a strong enforcement program. The Student Council met in a special session this morning. The purpose of this meeting, according
to Henry Shue, was “to decide whether Student Council members should continue to be honor-bound to enforce both the Honor
System and the Student Body Regulations.” “We're concerned because the distinction between the council's being honor-bound and the student body
being duty-bound tends to make ‘duty-bound’ meaningless.”

Drama Department

John Aitken Sneden, Jr., will head the newly created Drama Department next year, Dean Frontis W. Johnston announced to THE
DAVIDSONIAN today. Sneden, who recently completed graduate work at the University of North Carolina, will be coming to Davidson from
Lenoir-Rhyne College in Hickory. During the past year he has taught drama courses there and directed many of their student
productions. The new professor will assume duties in a department which has never existed on the campus before. His coming
will coincide with the opening of the new Cunningham Music and Fine Arts Building. “With our new facilities this is
something we want to point to more and more,” commented Dean Johnston. “We will gradually add more work in drama,
but that is for time to tell.” During his first year, Sneden will be teaching one course in the English
Department in addition to his drama duties. Present plans also call for him to conduct a two-semester course in the
history of drama. No technical courses in drama will be offered. Dean Johnston expressed doubt that this nature of drama
would ever be incorporated into the program here. The direction of student productions, assumed largely by Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz
this year, will fall to Sneden. He has visited the campus several times this year to attend rehearsals and productions
presented by the Vagabonds. Sneden is originally from Tenafly, N.J. He obtained both his AB and MA degree at Chapel
Hill, where he served as a technical assistant for the Carolina Playmakers for a year. Professor Sneden is unmarried and
is a Presbyterian.

Finch To Preach At Sunday Vespers

Dr. William C. Finch will speak this Sunday at vespers. Finch is currently the president of Southwestern University in Georgetown,
Tex. Beginning next fall, he will serve as dean of the Divinity School at Vanderbilt University. Prior to holding his
present position at Southwestern University, Finch served as a professor of religion and dean of Students at Oklahoma City University.
Finch is a graduate of Hampden-Sydney College and Drew University. In addition, he has done graduate work at Oxford. Dr.
Finch has a son, Tyree Finch, who is a member of this year’s Senior Class. Seniors will not be required
to report their attendance at vespers this Sunday.
