Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

The Trustees And Big Business

The Davidson College Board of Trustees last met on Wednesday, February 15. They will meet again on Thursday, May 18.
These are the only times that this group assembles in a body on the campus.

During the February meeting time, the trustees tend strictly to business. They have virtually no contact with students and members
of the faculty. There was a dinner for the trustees and faculty wives and female college personnel in the Union:
Professors stayed at home, minded the kids, and ate leftovers.

During the May gathering, the trustees will meet with student discussion groups in the fraternity houses during one afternoon. The
topics for these discussions will generally be carefully selected, but now and again a trustee will be embarrassed by a
question he can’t answer. These discussion groups are about the only contact a group of trustees ever has with a
group of students.

Trustees are under virtual house arrest when they come to Davidson. They shuttle back and forth to meetings with hardly
a glance into the affairs of the heart of the college — its students. Perhaps too many share the feeling
of one member of the board who said last February that Davidson College is just a corporate business and the
students are shareholders... minor shareholders at that. The Board of Trustees is the board of directors and it is they
who make the decisions, not the stockholders.

If Davidson is a corporation, its product is far too important for even the minor stockholders not to have a
voice in its corporate decisions. Its product is education and education doesn’t roll off an assembly line. Its product is
liberal arts, not soap flakes. Its product is men, not Reynolds Wrap, or Marlboros, or Peter Pan Crunchy Peanut Butter.

Trustees know little about the heart of the matter with which they are entrusted. We can see no justification for
this. Nor can we see why something can’t be done about it.

The trustees do not have a full-scale meeting during the fall semester. We propose a third meeting of the board,
a two-day visit to the campus during which the trustees would, in effect, live the life of a student. They
would stay in the dorms, each sharing a room with a student. They would attend classes, eat at fraternity houses,
perhaps take in an intramural athletic event or a play rehearsal. In other words, the trustee’s time would be unbudgeted.
There would be plenty of room for informal bull sessions. They would not be squired around by administrative officials or
members of the public relations department. Planned activities such as panel discussions could be included in the schedule, but this
sort of thing should be held to a minimum and should be conducted in as flexible a manner as possible.

The initiation of this experiment would have to come through the administration and the board itself. We feel, however, that
the Student Council should coordinate the trustees’ actual visiting time.

Board Chairman J. McDowell Richards agreed after the February meeting that “there is room for improvement” in student-trustee contact. When
asked about the practicality of a plan similar to the one outlined above, he said that he felt most trustees
would be willing to take a couple of days off to go through with it. We hope so.

Davidson College may be compared to a corporation, but its product is no machine-tooled toy. It’s time the board of
directors acquainted themselves with the minority stockholders.

The Last Of The Cools

President Kennedy's brightest campaign idea, the Peace Corps, has fired collegiate imaginations across the country. The upsurge of student response
to the Peace Corps project has been so great that Life Magazine and NBC’s Huntley-Brinkley television news report have both
given wide coverage to it in recent days.

At Ohio State University, interest runs so high that an office has been set up by would-be Peace Corpsmen; the
group issues a newspaper, sponsors weekend trips to Peace Corps Headquarters in Washington, disperses information, and helps dispatch applications from
Ohio State — of which there are hundreds. Student newspapers across the country — including those at southern schools like
Alabama and Emory — report Peace Corps enthusiasm at high tide on their campuses.

But at Davidson, the Peace Corps has caused scarcely a ripple — and certainly no rush of volunteers. A file
of information placed on library reserve by Student Body President Henry Shue has found few readers. Davidson's science and pre-medical
majors, the most likely candidates for Peace Corps jobs, have shown no visible interest. There is almost no campus discussion
of the Peace Corps.

It would be ridiculous to make harsh judgments about anybody simply because he has not leapt aboard the Peace Corps
bandwagon; but nonetheless, Davidson's indifference to an idea which is sweeping the country is a matter of interest. What’s the
explanation?

In part, it’s the obvious fact that the Peace Corps will have few jobs to offer liberal arts graduates. But
perhaps there’s more to it. Perhaps Davidson's indifference is just another symptom of that old bugbear of the student chapel
orators: apathy, and our persistent allergy to any kind of commitment.

Davidson men, it is well known, are pre-professional larvae — seedlings of success requiring careful post-graduate nourishment; we don’t have
time to build sewers for Zulus. Commitment is not cool.

If this is true of us, our attitude may be obsolete. A new spirit seems to be rising on campuses
elsewhere. One student editor, at a school where Peace Corps applicants are as thick as locusts, had this to say:
“We are seeing the rise of the Concerned Generation, the generation of the alert, the alive, the involved. Old Joe
College with his casual indifference to world crisis and world need is gone. The Cool Generation is dead.”

Dead? Not at Davidson. But we may be the last of the Cools.

E. S. D.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
B. Millner

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charlie Rowe

Associate Editors
Tom Colvin
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore

Managing Editors
David Jordan
Don Saunders

Assignment Editor
Mae Plaxico

Sports Editor
Steve Clark

Feature Editor
Leonard Richardson

Photographers
Jerry Abernathy
Marty Lafferty

Advertising Manager
Olin Nisbet

Circulation Manager
Jimmy Platt

Assistant Bus. Manager
Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Interested Students Keep Phi And Eu Alive Today

By LEONARD RICHARDSON
Davidsonian Feature Editor

This week the oldest student organizations on campus held their formal initiations. They have both declined in prominence during the
past 124 years, but interested students keep them alive.

The Philanthropic and Eumenean Societies were once the center of almost all extracurricular activity on campus. For more than 50
years, officers of Phi and Eu were the most influential men in the student body, and the societies were responsible
for student government.

The literary societies were founded four months after the college opened in 1837. Their primary purpose was debating, but they
offered training in writing, parliamentary usage, and public speaking as well.

The Eumenean and Philanthropic Halls, facing each other on the south end of the old quadrangle, were built in 1849.
The societies debated “Is slavery a blessing or a curse?” in the 1830s, fought the Mexican War verbally in the
40s, and argued the pros and cons of secession from the late 50s to 1861. Decreased enrollment during the War
Between the States caused them to disband temporarily, but by 1866 Eu members were wondering, “Are we justified in emigrating
from the South now?” and men in Phi debated, “Is the Congress of the United States justified in excluding Southern
Members?” in 1867.

Gay society parties were held at commencements during the 1870s, 80s, and 90s. Choosing juniors from Phi and Eu to
serve as commencement marshals is a custom still in practice.

The Societies fell on evil times in the 20th century. Debating and baseball games between the two societies lost first
place in student interest to intercollegiate athletics. Social life came to center around Greek-letter fraternities. Another function was taken away
from Phi and Eu when Davidson's first Student Council was organized. With the rise in enrollment from 100 in 1900
to about 950 today, other organizations were formed on campus.

The Halls were painted a glaring red to preserve the bricks. Few students knew their history until 1956 when the
generosity of Mrs. Clarence Hodson of Orange, New Jersey made full restoration possible. In an impressive ceremony at Homecoming five
years ago, the lavishly-restored Halls were officially presented to the college.

When they were presented in 1956, Dr. Chalmer G. Davidson said, “... Today the Halls stand as proudly as they
did 106 years ago, a symbol that Davidson College is not yet ready to bow to the winds of change
and surrender those intellectual, social, andHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

religious standards upon which she was founded.” “Well, I guess that’s the last of those damn liberals on the newspaper.
I figured they were crazy all along. They’ve already got Millner in the truck.”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Thomason Is Convinced Union Facilities Are OK

Dear Editor:

“Davidson's outmoded ways of getting around the Sermon on the Mount” would be an interesting thesis for a uniquely significant
paper — uniquely significant because it is not cool to be concerned to the extent of action at Davidson. Real
motives are coolly disguised with false pretense. The two chief ways of bypassing the Sermon on the Mount at Davidson
are widespread. One is most often suggested by members of the Bible Dept. who never cease to remind us that
“this, students, is an impossible ethic.” Ignorant is our proper designation!

COMPELLED

The second has compelled me, as a “Forgotten Man,” to reply to Archpoet, and Archexaggerator Duggan who doubtless was sincere
in last week’s editorial: the ever-present perpetuation of insignificant issues in a world which provides many threats to our cozy
little world — over-population, famine, illiteracy, and that which is of most immediate importance to us, discrimination with irrational bases.
Last week “The Forgotten Man” was the insignificant issue. His “plight” is not unbearable, if indeed there is a “plight.”
If there were a real problem, the demand for creative change would likely have arisen from independent quarters. Fraternity men
seem to have an overwhelming need to make the independents after their own image!

FALSE IMAGE

The major concrete suggestions of Editor Duggan involved the unity of independents with each other and with that false image,
Davidson College, and limited social life, particularly as embodied in dance-weekends. Independent, by definition, precludes a tightly knit organization. Since
the independents do not represent a tightly knit unit, it is hardly likely that an independent vote on the IFC
would be representative. Non-voting representation is adequate. Besides, having a vote would entail the responsibility of buying a certain number
of dance tickets.

NO LOSS

The independent has nothing to lose since he possesses no social ties. But, while he has nothing to lose, he
has everything to give freely since he is bound by no social covenant. Independents participate in most phases of campus
life. We may be forgotten men, but we are not idle men! However, we flatly deny that the bond between
independents is less than “friendship and common interest.” The Union offers sufficient tables for us to live in complete isolation
and some few independents eat elsewhere! We scatter our social life from New York to Florida.

DO NOT DATE

As for dance-weekends, most independents do not date. The lesser social facilities are only a minor contributing factor in most
cases. Not all independents are poverty-stricken, but some of us are independent both by choice and by financial necessity. For
those of us who date, quiet conversation, and yes, even study is quite as pleasant as boisterous and sometimes less
than sober after-dance parties. Stated more concisely, a $10 weekend can be quite as enjoyable as a $30 hangover, either
from lack of sleep or from the more probable cause, but typically both. Five in the morning is not necessarily
the most romantic hour!

Being firmly convinced that our facilities and social life are adequate, may I suggest, if the problem is real, interested
independents have more than adequate time to initiate creative change. If there were real concern for our “plight,” each entering
freshman would long ago have been offered a fraternity bid.

Glenn C. Thomason

WHO IN THE WORLD IS DOING ALL THAT STUPID BARKING?

all be shoutin’ and singin’... He silenced the crowd and there were testimonials. A woman rose to recount a miraculous
cure which Allen had worked on her in 1955. “I was turnin’ to stone,” said the woman. “I was gettin’
hard as a rock all over and them doctors at Duke Hospital couldn’t do nothin.’ I was dyin’ an’ I
was in pain and God an’ brother Allen cured me!” She finished and Allen grabbed the microphone. “Glory to God!”
he cried. “Thank you, Jesus!”

FOCUS

The Pious Dance As He Casts Out Demons

By ERVIN DUGGAN

Salvation full and free, along with speaking in tongues, miracles and stiff doses of ecstatic prophecy are being dispensed nightly
at Charlotte’s Park Center. The purveyor of these is A. A. Allen, “God's Miracle Man,” whose Miracle Revival started in
Charlotte March 18.

We attended Saturday night: Mass Miracle Night. Mr. Allen, apparently on more than normally intimate terms with the Deity, was
addressing Him when we arrived.

“Eeecow!” shouted Allen, “Wonderful Jee-sus!” He finished his invocation and addressed the crowd of about two thousand. “Look at you,
just sitting there like a bunch of Methodists or Presbyterians! Why, I bet you have to be told when to
shout hallelujah!” A fat woman threw up her hands and cried “Hallelujah!” She began to sway and soon most of
the congregation had begun clapping, shouting and singing, accompanied by Mr. Allen’s plastic-topped grand piano, a Hammond organ, and a
tambourine wielded by a colored singer on the stage.

“This is just what it'll be like when we all get to Heaven,” Allen shouted above the bedlam. “We'll all
be shoutin’ and singin’...”

Allen held up a copy of his official journal, “Miracle Magazine.” “You can read it now!” he shouted. “Read about
our healing ministry all over the world. Read, ‘A New Toe For Oscar,’ the true story of God’s restoration of
a toe, a lung, six ribs and a chestbone from a cancer demon! ‘She Gave $75.00 and God Performed a
Gall Bladder Operation!’ You can see a photograph of her actual gallstones! ‘I Lost Two Hundred Pounds on God’s Reducing
Plan!’ Thousands saw the fat melt right off before their eyes!”

Ushers, laden with magazines, fanned out among the crowd. Miracle Magazine, amply illustrated with “after” pictures, reported supernatural deliverances from
“sugar diabetes,” hermaphroditism, “nymphomania misfit,” and several varieties of incurable cancer.

On the platform, Allen and his assistants were jumping and shouting. “Glory Jesus!” he yelled, and then he spied a
woman on a hospital stretcher below the stage. “Okay, little lady down there! We're gonna heal you. God's gonna heal
you tonight!” Two assistants rolled the stretcher up a ramp and onto the stage.

“This little lady’s eaten up with cancer!” Allen exclaimed. “The last time them doctors opened her up they just looked
in and shook their heads. Do you believe God’ll heal this little lady of the cancer devil?” A chorus of
shouts went up. They believed.

“Jee-sus! God!” Allen’s voice ripped the silence. “Heal this woman! Come out, you foul demon of cancer! Come out, Satan!”
The preacher gripped the woman’s head and held on hard. She began to stir. “She’s moving! Come out, you demon!”
The woman struggled to stand. She rose from the stretcher, donned her shoes and strode from the platform — “healed.”
Loud shouts and amens rose from the congregation. There was a chorus of “Got Just What I Wanted From The
Lord,” then three more healings.

“This woman hasn’t moved in three years! They took out a brain cancer and they accidentally cut the co-ordinatin’ nerves
in her neck.” She was instantly healed.

“This boy’s leg-leaders are too short. He’s been walking on tiptoe since nineteen-forty-four. Stretch these leaders, Jesus!” The boy left
the platform howling and healed.

“Here’s a baby that was born with a tobacco demon. Eats cigarette butts, right out of ashtrays.” After the exorcising,
about two hundred of the audience obeyed Allen’s admonition to quit tobacco, flinging cigarettes and snuff cans onto the altar,
where assistants collected them in buckets.

The collection followed. “I perform financial miracles every day!” said Allen as the ushers went into the audience again. “You
can’t outgive the Lord!”

There was more music, more shouting, frenzied dancing and jumping in the congregation, and Allen began to preach — a
brief sermon, concerned mostly with miracles, dwelling heavily on the tale of Balaam’s ass. “If God can use a jackass
to make miracles,” Allen said, “then he can use A. A. Allen!” The congregation, struck with the analogy, shouted “Amen!”

“Do you believe God can use YOU to perform miracles?” Allen asked. “Yes!” shouted the believers.

At Allen’s call, hundreds surged forward to be prayed over: God and Brother Allen, he said, would give them “miracle
healing power.”

The clock above the stage said eleven o’clock. We left.

“Oh, God! Oh, Jesus!” The organ began to play, and the rattling of the tambourine took up again. Women in
the crowd were jerking and trembling, tossing their heads, standing with arms upraised as Allen prayed. “Jesus! You made a
miracle with Ezekiel’s dry bones. You made a miracle with the jawbone of an ass. You made a miracle with
Paul’s handkerchief! If you can use a jackass to make a miracle, you can use me!”

Outside a cold rain was falling and a wind was whipping up the street, which was lined to the end
with the wet, waiting cars of the faithful.
