PAGE FOUR

BUDDY BRAUCH operates the complicated set of switches and dials that control the lighting in the Fine Arts Center. In
the lighting room, Brauch has control of the 64 circuits in the Fine Arts Center. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Applications Due For Graduate Exam

The Graduate Record Exam- inations, which are required for admission to certain graduate and professional schools, will be given at
Davidson on Nov. 18. Every candidate is required to file formal application with the Educational Testing Service and to pay
an examination fee. All applications and fees must reach the Princeton office of the testing service not later than 15
days before the date of the test. The fees included are $7.00 for the Aptitude Test, $8.00 for one Advanced
Test, and $12.00 for the Aptitude Test and one Advanced Test. There is a morning session and an afternoon session
at each of the nationwide administrations of the examinations. Morning tests are scheduled to start at 9 and to end
about 11:45. Afternoon tests start at 2 and end about 5:15.

Brauch Operates Lighting For Fine Arts Productions

BY WILLIAM WALKER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Gilbert “Buddy” Brauch is the operator of a bewildering bank of switches and dials in the lighting room of the
Cunningham Fine Arts Building. As student assistant in all the functions of the new building, Brauch’s biggest job is creating
and putting into effect the lighting schemes for stage productions.

LIGHTING SYSTEM

“There are a total of 64 circuits throughout the theatre,” said Brauch in explanation of the lighting system. “We have
30 lights, or ‘instruments’, as we call them, on the catwalk above the theatre, 22 on the stage, and 12
in the floor pockets. The most we can have on at a time is 30 circuits; otherwise, we'd blow a
fuse and plunge the building into total darkness.”

Eighteen “dimmers” are used with the lights to achieve subtleties of intensity and fade-in and fade-out effects. A multitude of
combinations for dimming effects are possible with the aid of a “patch board” system resembling a telephone switchboard. For color
effects, a transparent, flexible material called “cinabex” is used as a covering for the lights.

STAGE MANAGERS

Working in close cooperation with Brauch are the student stage managers, who synchronize performers and lights. “When the curtain closes,”
says Brauch, “the boys backstage tell the performers to take their places. Then they signal me to dim the lights
and then to brighten them when the curtain starts to open.”

Brauch feels that lighting theory is becoming increasingly more complicated in theatre production. “A new field is opening up in
theatre work,” he said, “that of the light designer. Instead of doing the switchboard work, he sits in an office,
reads the play, and designs effects. Somebody else then does the actual producing.”

Brauch is moving toward this sort of position himself. For the coming Vagabond production, “Antigone”, he is working with Professor
John Sneden to plan the play's lighting effects. He is also training a few students in lighting work whom he
hopes will eventually be able to do the board work during performances. Brauch currently has only one student assistant.

Marlin Announces 14 Board Members

Fourteen new members of the Board of Visitors were announced Wednesday by President D. Grier Martin. Davidson alumni include John
C. Bernhardt of Bernhardt Furniture Co., Lenoir; Edward W. Coslett of Swarthmore, Pa.; Dr. H. M. Marvin of New Haven,
Conn.; Dr. Julian P. Price of Florence, S. C.; Harry L. Shaw of Barnes and Noble, New York; and Dr.
Cecil W. Gilchrist of Charlotte Chemical Laboratories, and his wife.

Other newcomers include The Honorable J. Spencer Bell, United States Circuit Judge from Charlotte; The Honorable Stan Brookshire, Mayor of
Charlotte, and Mrs. Brookshire; Miss Bonnie Cone, president of Charlotte College; Mrs. John R. Cunningham, wife of the former president
of Davidson; Dr. Howard F. Lowry, president of the College of Wooster (Ohio), who gave the inaugural address at President
Martin’s inauguration; and J. E. Martin, president of the Dana Corporation and brother of President Martin, and his wife.

Y Gets Poor Response In Tennis Shoe Drive

As of Wednesday morning, no pungent odor typical of aged tennis shoes issued from the YMCA box in the lobby
of Belk Dormitory. This fact has Joe Howell, Chairman of the YMCA Community Service Area Committee, concerned over the outcome
of the drive to obtain old tennis shoes for the Ada Jenkins Negro grammar school. The “Y” is attempting for
the first time this year to organize a basketball team at the school.

Woody Danenhower, appointed by the YMCA to obtain student coaches for the Negro boys, said that thus far four have
volunteered: Bill Barron, Dick Forrester, Rick Smyre, and Phil Craver.

EXCELLENT RESPONSE

“Response at the school has been excellent, and enthusiasm is running high there,” Danenhower said. “If the students here were
as responsive to the drive, all our worries would be over.” He thought that the basketball teams organized would probably
play for the first year on an intramural level and that next year a team might be organized to play
other schools in the county.

Howell admitted that the drive had not been well publicized. “This may have had something to do with the lack
of response,” he said. “We are extending the drive until next Wednesday night and hope that the publicity given by
THE DAVIDSONIAN will provoke a response.”

FREE TICKETS ANYONE?

David Stitt had plenty to offer at Monday night’s Gala at the box office of the Fine Arts Center, but
there were few students there to take up his offer. The Phi Mu Alpha Gala was held to raise funds
for the Fine Arts Center and to promote interest in the arts among the student body.

Students Organize Service Fraternity

A charter of Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity is being organized on campus under the leadership of Tom Robinson. At
present, the group here possesses only the status of an organizational chapter. Robinson stated, however, that the group will petition
for chapter recognition around the first of the year.

The organization now has between 25 and 30 members. The officers are Tom Robinson, president; Tom Patrick, vice-president; Walton McNairy,
secretary; and John Rankin, treasurer.

APO is a self-governing, self-supporting fraternity organized to provide service to the campus and community. At present, the group here
is providing a courier service for students in the infirmary. This service includes picking up mail at the post office
and getting books and other needed articles from the dormitories. Future projects include such services as furnishing guides around campus
for prospective students and placing memo pads near all telephones.

Membership in a social fraternity does not preclude membership in APO. Students interested in joining should contact one of the
officers.

FACULTY MEMBERS’ DAUGHTERS stop to admire a painting in the Fine Arts Center. The painting is part of the Dalton
Collection, which has been on display in the Fine Arts Center this week. Above, from left to right are Hope
Minter, daughter of Dr. W. P. Minter; Linda Hopkins, daughter of Dr. J. I. Hopkins; and Martha Johnston, daughter of
Dean Frontis Johnston. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)Wednesday, Nov. 1. That evening from 7 until 10, Mr. and Mrs. Tom O'Donoghue
from the Carolina Arts and Crafts will be in the Morrison Room of the College Union to demonstrate how many
attractive and useful articles can be made from various materials. Many of the articles which they will explain how to
make are now on display in the lobby of the College Union. Mr. and Mrs. O’Donoghue devote much of their
time to teaching people to develop their skills in the arts and crafts. If enough interest is shown, they will
continue to come to Davidson to instruct any student desiring to participate.

Photo by McCutchen

Fourteen Acre Lake Wiley: “Not Lake By A Dam Site”

BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

There's much talk in the air concerning the new lake currently being dug by the Duke Power Company, and the
recreational possibilities which it will provide for North Carolinians. Water recreation, even aside from freshman-sophomore water riots and fraternity shower
parties, is nothing new for Davidson College, however. Cornelia Rebekah Shaw, in her book “Davidson College” relates, amidst a wealth
of information concerning the school’s early history, the story of Lake Wiley. Lake Wiley was named for S. H. Wiley,
Esq., a resident of Salisbury and a trustee of the college. It was he who provided the funds for the
building of the dam and boat-houses. With this gift and some of its own funds, the college purchased, in 1893,
fourteen acres of land for the lake itself and additional surrounding land for park facilities. Students contributed one afternoon a
week toward its construction. The combined efforts of all concerned soon made the artificial lake a reality.

During the lake’s intermittent life, it provided students with facilities for swimming and boating. Two bath houses, six boats, a
deep-water spring board, and a two-hundred foot toboggan slide were standard features. However, in 1909 sewage pipes were run into
the valley above the lake, and for sanitary reasons it was necessary to drain it. The new lake promises to
be larger and more lasting, but the question of its use for college and fraternity recreation is still unanswered.

Methodist, W. F. Hold Joint Meeting

A Davidson alumnus, Dr. Moody Smith, will address a joint meeting of the Methodist Student Fellowship and the Westminister Fellowship.
The two groups will meet with the professor of New Testament from Methodist Theological School of Ohio in the student
lounge of the Presbyterian Church at 8 p.m. “The Condition of the Church Behind the Iron Curtain” will be the
topic of Dr. Andrei Lobanov-Rostovsky's talk at the Westminister Fellowship next Friday. Lobanov-Rostovsky is the John Hay Whitney Visiting Professor
of History.

Bob Stone, Freshman Advisor, is confident of a victory by “my boys.” Bernie Ephland will select the freshman runners, Ken
Essex will pick the form event contestants, and Grimes will choose the freshman tug-of-war team. The sophomore team will be
organized by Fred McGuirt, class president. McGuirt feels that he has the material to win, but fears that sophomore over-confidence
will prevent his class from reaching its highest potential.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

The basketball game will be played the previous night at 7 p.m. The running events will consist of the 100,
220, 440, and 660 yard dashes, the low hurdles, and the half-mile and mile relays. The discus, shot, high jump,
and broad jump will make up the form events. A 20-man tug-of-war is also scheduled.

Demand for the lake’s return led the class of 1906 to forego the publishing of the Annual for that year.
Annual funds were used to rebuild the dam and make other improvements to the area.

Assistant-to-the-Chaplain Val Frakes will be in charge of the program on November 10. Frakes, a Danforth Intern, will discuss “The
Theology of Paul Tillich” to ready the group for Tillich’s visit here as a Reynolds lecturer.

Yale Scholar (Continued From Page One)

Few men can say as much in so short a time on any subject remotely French. He bravely chided the
pre-med specialization, calling for an increase in “sincerity” in everything in literature. He expressed serious doubts on existentialism, which engenders
too much of “the negative.” Always the gentle critic and master of English and French languages, Peyre was unfailingly flattering
to his host, former professor of French G. B. Watts. His gracious remark was typical; “I have always looked forward
with pleasure to meetings of the Association of French Professors, if only to talk with your Dr. Watts. He has
for years made the name of Davidson College famous in the nation, and indeed throughout the world.”

The Connoisseur Restaurant B.B. Que Drive-In Serves Lunches, Dinners, All Kind of Sandwiches, Pizza, Cold Beverages

The vespers speaker for Sunday night will be Prof. Samuel E. Stumpf, Chairman of the Department of Philosophy at Vanderbilt
University. Stumpf received his basic education at U.C.L.A. and the University of Chicago, and then spent one year abroad studying
under a Rockefeller Grant at Oxford. After completing his formal education, Stumpf served as a chaplain in the Navy and
later as the Baptist chaplain at Harvard and M.I.T. He has held his current post at Vanderbilt since 1949. In
addition to heading the Philosophy Department, Stumpf also lectures at Vanderbilt Law School. He has written several books, among which
are A Democratic Manifesto and Democracy and The Christian Faith.

Freshman Vespers will be conducted by Dr. Robert Seymour, pastor at the Binkley Memorial Baptist Church in Chapel Hill. As
this is the fifth Sunday in the month, no faculty homes will be formally open for student visitation after vespers.

Subscribe Now at Half Price

You can read this world-famous daily newspaper for the next six months for $5.50, just half the regular subscription rate.
Get top news coverage. Enjoy special features. Clip for reference work. Send your order today. Enclose check or money order.
Use coupon below.

The Christian Science Monitor
P-CN One Norway St., Boston 15, Mass.
Send your newspaper for the time checked.
6 months $5.50 1 year $11
College Student Faculty Member

Tastee-Freez
OLD CHARLOTTE HIGHWAY
CORNELIUS
SERVING HOT DOGS, HAMBURGERS, BARBECUE, CHEESEBURGER, CHUCK WAGON STEAK, MILK SHAKE, SUNDAES, BANANA SPLITS, CONES
HOURS MON. — SAT. 10-10 SUN. 2-9
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord

OPEN AFTER VESPERS

60,000,000 times a day people get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
