FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

By Bill Godwin

A Man Of Few Words

THE MAN called “Mr. Frank” was here Tuesday in all his eloquence. But the U.N. trouble-shooter isn’t always flowers. Ask Olin Puckett, biology professor. The two men happened together at a recent meeting. “Hello, Dr. Graham,” Puckett said. Came the reply, “How's — doing? — Danny House, Davidson’s All-Conference end.

BUT FOOTBALL'S in the background now. Even basketball is on the fade-out. And maybe that Spring Frolics weather we've been having isn’t premature. Davidson's baseball batteries came alive this week. The pitchers and catchers will work out for two more weeks before practice officially starts.

The Grapplers Hit Tough Loop Foes

Wildcat wrestlers wrangled two top Southern Conference squads—VPI and VMI—Thursday and Friday. The ‘Cats tussle NC State Tuesday. Said Parker, “When we hit State, we'll be in our own league.” The ‘Cats stand 1-1 against Atlantic Coast Conference teams. The Wildcats defeated Carolina and lost to Duke by one point.

Goodnight, Mrs. Calabash

THEY WON'T let Paul Marrotte quit. The history professor and ex-soccer coach (he resigned last fall) was back on the field Wednesday for a two-week winter warm-up. Marrotte says he’s hoping to pull a leave next semester and he adds this note: “Do you remember how Jimmy Durante used to sign off his TV show with, ‘Goodnight, Mrs. Calabash, wherever you are’? Well, rumor is that the man in line for the soccer coaching job for 1961 is none other than ‘Mr. Calabash, whoever he is’.

PETE WHITTLE made his getaway last month—after 31 straight years at the grind (track and cross-country, physical education, and most anything else that required a competent man at the helm). He’ll be back in September, with all sorts of gimmicks from a semester of study. A possible sample, one that he was mulling over before he left, is the tow method in track training. A metal bar is fastened to the rear bumper of a car. The car pulls runners at speeds greater than their capacities and helps develop their sprint times.

Gib‘m Hell, ‘Cats

SINCE THIS column is being written before the Davidson-Virginia Tech basketball game, I can report only what has gone before. And that you wouldn't print on a Valentine card, not even one from Hallmark. The football Wildcats stunned everybody with a 9-7 upset over top-ranked VPI. Davidson returned to Blacksburg in December, this time in basketball togs, and was soundly beaten, 105-59. Fans piling over balconies in the Tin Can Arena roared their approval and Gobbler gridders seated behind our basket stopped just short of physical force on the Wildcats. It was nightmarish and Coach Lefty Driesell has vowed not to go back. Last night it was our turn...

LEFTY’S NOT the only wet hen. His cohort, Joe Hunt, suffered through a 67-63 freshman defeat at Pfeiffer last week. It came after five straight victories. And what’s more, the referees were Pfeiffer students. We fouled out.

Of Dances And Sex Books

YOU'VE PROBABLY wondered about the four straight cage games Davidson won through last Thursday. Are we really that good? The victims—VMI, Wofford and Pfeiffer (twice)—were scheduled for the two-week period between exams and the dance weekend. “We've found,” said Tom Scott, “that the boys are lowest during that period. So we schedule the weaker teams. However, they (the Wildcats) usually finish strong. NOT SO, Driesell would say. To him, a win over Pfeiffer is more than a narrow loss to St. Bonaventure.

VPI's 177-pound Don Kirk, who has already matted defending champion Dennis Hoblitzell of West Virginia. Shoe said, “The championship will probably go back to VMI, but a strong VPI team could prove to be the dark horse of the tournament and upset the Keydets. The Citadel is going to be tough and we could come out in fourth place. I just hope that the relay team will break 3:40 before the end of the season.”

OUTMATCHED

Thus far Davidson has won no matches in the Southern Conference. West Virginia defeated Davidson 27-3, while VPI downed West Virginia 22-5. Going onto VPI mats, the Wildcats had about a fifty-point disadvantage, according to Parker. Davidson was outmatched in every weight class. VMI is not as strong as VPI, though they still better the ‘Cats considerably. VMI's Daniel is defending champion in the 167-pound class. Davidson's big gun against VPI was 177-pound Cliff Thompson. He has been downed only once this year. He was last week’s Wildcat of the Week. However, he tangled with VMI's 177-pound Don Kirk, who has already matted defending champion Dennis Hoblitzell of West Virginia. VMI was expected to floor the ‘Cats from comparative scores. The Citadel beat VMI, 15-13, then blasted Davidson, 25-3.

ROUGH WEEK

“We are having a rough weekend,” said Parker early this week. “We wrestle VPI and VMI for experience,” he added.

Tech Nips Fired-Up Hoopsters

Butch LeDoyen Assumes Doubtful Pose As Foe Tightens Grip

FAVORED CAROLINA IS HOST

Untried Cindermen Go Inside Tomorrow For State’s Big Five Meet

By JOHN SPRATT Davidsonian Sports Writer

A dubious Coach Roger Thrift leads his Wildcat trackmen into their indoor debut with Carolina, Wake Forest, Duke, and North Carolina State in the Big Five Meet tomorrow in Chapel Hill. Explains Thrift, “We can’t enter enough boys to do too well... for instance we lost our miler David Gilmour, and we have no pole vaulters. It’s hard to tell, though; we haven't had enough time. And also the bad weather's hurt us, making us practice a lot in Chambers. And you can't get in shapein Chambers.” Davidson entries in the Big Five meet tomorrow include:

New Record In Diving
It took a lot of seven-point dives to break the record. Junior diver Bill Whittington surpassed teammate Jack Rose’s school record by 14 points in a meet last week with Georgia Tech to become our “Wildcat of the Week.” A well-proportioned swimmer from Tunica, Miss., Whittington, 6'2", 180 lbs, has shown “a lot of promise.” Will he better his own record? “Maybe at the conference meet,” said Coach Shoe. Whittington is a “fair” freestyle swimmer, but it’s plain to see his future lies in diving. (On occasion a coach is forced to use divers in other events).

Broad Jump: Hugh Murray, John Chiles, Bob Cordle, Mike Laughlin.
High Jump: Keith Fraser.
High Hurdles: Duke Bumgardner.
Sixty-yard Dash: Cordle, Laughlin, Dick Eberhart.
440: Roger Beebee, John Sharp.
880: Bob Marshall, Henry Shue.
Mile: Bob Scales.
Two Miles: Bill Eckbert.
Eight-lap Relay: Beebee, Sharp, Cordle, Laughlin, Marshall.

Athletic Council Volleyball Action over Sig Eps, SAE’s over Independents, Betas over Pi Kapps, of last week:

TEAM WON LOST PCT.
Betas 3 0 1.000
Kappa Sigs 3 0 1.000
SAE’s 3 0 1.000
KA's 1 0 1.000
Phi Gams 3 1 .750
Independents 2 1 .667
Sigma Chis 2 1 .667
Pikas 1 2 .333
Phi Delts 0 2 .000
Sigma Nus 0 2 .000
ATO's 0 3 .000
Pi Kapps 0 3 .000
Sig Eps 0 3 .000

Scales may be joined in the mile run by Bob Leslie, and Avery Burns, recuperating from a sprained ankle, is expected to return soon. Reports from Dr. George Staples’ scouting trips tend to indicate Carolina as a likely meet victor. Carolina is reported to have done well against State and Wake Forest in a scrimmage type meet earlier this year. Next Saturday the Wildcats cast their lot in the annual Southern Indoor Meet. It will easily prove a grueling trial for 'Cat trackmen.

University. Furman clipped in December, 61-52. Last night, highly touted VPI scrambled for forty minutes, before nipping the ‘Cats, 79-72, in Johnston Gym before 2000 screaming fans. Joe Markee’s 22 points kept the locals in range, while Bill Jarman contributed 15 markers and 12 rebounds. Haywood Evans and Bill Shinn collected 16 and 12 respectively. Tech's Bob Ayersman was high man with 27, while All-conference behemoth Chris Smith scored 22 and snared 21 rebounds. The Varsity is now 8-11 overall, and 2-8 in conference play. A win at Furman will clinch a tournament berth. The freshmen’s record is now 6-6, following a heartbreaking loss last night to VPI, 68-67. Bill Beerman was high with 18. The Wildkittens play Furman’s frosh at Greenville tomorrow. Then on Tuesday night, the hot and cold locals perform in Johnston Gymnasium for the last time this season when Erskine comes here for an 8 p.m. fray. The Wildcats whipped the Fleet, 70-63, at Erskine earlier in the season.

STREAK BROKEN
This past Tuesday, the cagers carried a four-game winning streak to Richmond, only to have it ended as the Spiders convincingly won, 90-77. Getting off to a bad start, the ’Cats fell behind, 9-0, after six minutes of play. This early deficit evidently “shook up” the visitors, who were careful not to expose any ball-handling tactics to Richmond fans. The ‘Cats lost possession of the ball 26 times for such antics as traveling, three-second violations, bad passes, and other ulcer-provoking feats. In addition, the shorter Spiders outrebounded, outshot, and outhustled the visiting ‘Cats. In short, Richmond wanted the game more.

SHINN SHINES
Following the game, Coach “Lefty” Driesell criticized his team for their play. He stated, “Bill Shinn and D. G. Martin were the only ones who put out tonight.” Shinn popped in 12 field goals for a high of 24 points, while Martin hustled on defense and contributed six points. Bill Jarman and Joe Markee had off-nights, as the former scored but one point in the first half and ten for the night, while the latter was held to 13. Tomorrow night's opponent is a team with tremendous potential. The Paladins, young and quick, had a 13-8 record as of Wednesday. They currently hold down fourth place in the tough Southern Conference, and will rate the role of “dark horse” in the upcoming tournament.

FAST-BREAKERS
Furman moves the ball down the court in a hurry and wastes no time trying to score. Led by sophomore sensation Jerry Smith, the Paladins fast-break a lot. Consequently, four of their starters average in the double figures. Smith is currently the fourth-best scorer in the conference (32nd in the nation) with a 21.3 average. Tuesday night, the young candidate for all-conference honors, paced the Paladins over South Carolina, 93-78.

Young Man With a Date

Representatives will be on the campus March 1 and 2
INTERVIEWS: March 1 from 9:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
March 2 from 9:00 A.M. to 1:00 P.M.
Group Discussion at 4:00 P.M., March 1, College Union Building, for any interested student regardless of Class.
SEE YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICER FOR AN INTERVIEW
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company
Western Electric Company