DIAZ DISCUSSES “NEW DEAL” IDEA (See Page Two) VOL. L Che DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1961 CAGERS VISIT HIGHLY TOUTED DEACS (See Page Three). NUMBER ELEVEN College Moves Forward In Foreign Study Area BY TOM LOFLIN Davidsonian Staff Writer Recognizing the need for encouraging Davidson students to consider a period of study abroad, President D. Grier Martin appointed a Foreign Study Committee, composed of four faculty members, this past month. The committee includes Chairman J. O. Embry, Prof. Thomas O. Pinkerton, Prof. Donald W. Tucker, and Prof. Bradley D. Thompson. The first meeting was held Tuesday, Nov. 21, at which time the official policy of the college was drawn up. Davidson’s new policy toward study abroad will make it easier for students to obtain information about overseas study and obtain credit here for work done while in foreign universities. FOUR AREAS The committee will assist students in the following four areas: postgraduate work in foreign countries, without regard for college credit; a junior year abroad for full credit; a junior year abroad as an independent student with full, partial, or no credit given; and a summer of study and travel without academic credit. The new policy will go into effect immediately and will apply to current sophomores and freshmen. In order for a Davidson student to take his junior year abroad under the new program, he must first consult with a member of the committee — Embry for French-speaking countries, Pinkerton for German-speaking lands, Tucker for Spanish, and Thompson for all other languages. APPLICATION Next, an application must be submitted to the committee before Jan. 15 of the year preceding the junior year. The application will include a statement of purpose for study abroad and choice of courses, a four-year program for the student with the signature of a professor in his major field, a copy of his college transcript with at least a 1.75 average, and a letter of approval from a parent. A student will be required to have completed at least through the 21-22 language course for a program where part of the courses are in English and through 31-32 for a program where all of the courses are in a foreign language, or fill this deficiency by an intensive summer school program. The Foreign Study Committee will study applications and make recommendations to the dean of students by Jan. 25; each student will be notified of the acceptance or rejection of his application by Feb. 1. MUST KEEP JOURNAL In order to receive credit for the junior year abroad, a student in the program will have to keep a journal for submission to the committee upon returning. In the journal, the student will list his courses and professors, textbooks and parallel reading done for each course, a statement of the subject of each class (Continued On Page Four) Firearms Change Proposed The Student Council voted unanimously Wednesday night to present to the student body an amendment to the section of the Student Body Constitution which deals with possession of firearms on campus. The amendment is designed to extend the present regulation in the constitution to prohibit the keeping of firearms anywhere on the campus of Davidson College without the express permission of the Student Council. At present, the regulation merely prohibits the keeping of firearms in dormitories, but the council was disturbed over the danger imposed by students keeping firearms in fraternity houses. To encourage the use of the college gun room, the Council had extra gun lockers built to make sure all requests for space could be granted. The Council also decided to set up a new system of locks for the lockers and the gun room itself to further safeguard the weapons. A combination lock will be put on the main door of the room, with another lock on each individual locker. Student Body President George Trask will present the amendment in chapel next Monday, and on the following Monday the student body will vote on it. A two-thirds majority of the student vote is required to pass an amendment to the constitution. Other action at the council meeting included a decision to participate in the State Student Legislature next March. Delegates will be chosen at the beginning of the second semester by a committee composed of Student Council members and faculty representatives. All students are eligible to attend the legislature as delegates, and selection procedures will be announced at a later date. Trask also announced that the Elections Committee will be chosen next week. That committee will be composed of a senior from each of the twelve fraternities and one independent senior. YMCA Gift Fund Goes Businessman Offers $500 Challenge Gift BY WILLIAM WALKER Davidsonian Staff Writer The student body of Davidson College has selected Taijon College, in Taijon, South Korea as the recipient of the proceeds from the YMCA’s Gift Fund Project drive. The project, which is being sponsored by the Presbyterian Church, was selected as the result of a student body balloting on Nov. 28. It was one of four such projects offered to the student body during chapels over the past two weeks for consideration. Presented by Miss Carole Cameron of Queens College, it claimed 50 percent of the 585 votes cast to win the balloting. $4000 GOAL “Our project is to buy laboratory equipment, library reference books, and textbooks for the college,” said John Williams, spokesman for the Y. Contributions to this year's project will be sought all next week by solicitors for the Y. One person on each hall will distribute envelopes personally, reported Bob Moore, who is in charge of the financial end of the project. This collection will begin Monday. Faculty members will also be contacted in the drive which extends through Friday. The Y has established a goal of $4,000 to be raised locally. An anonymous challenge gift of $500 has been made to the Y by a southern businessman having no connection with Davidson. He will match every dollar, up to $500, which the Y raises above the $3,500 level. That much money has not been donated since 1956 when $4,700 was raised for a Hungarian refugee family which moved to Davidson. Last year, students selected the Madras, India Boys Town to be the recipient of the gift Fraternity Men Prefer Present Form Of Rush BY BOB REYNOLDS Davidsonian Staff Writer The results of the poll conducted two weeks ago by the Interfraternity Council have shown that two-thirds of the approximately 300 fraternity members and pledges who responded favor a form of rush similar to that of last year. “The purpose of the poll,” said IFC President Bob Waugh, “was to give all concerned a chance to say how they wanted rush to be carried out, and we also wanted to get the swing of student opinion. Though we had hoped for a better response, in many cases students have shown that they had put much thought into their answers.” TICKETS FOR SALE. Joe Martin sells Emory Whitaker a ticket to the Davidson-Wake Forest basketball game to be played in Winston-Salem tomorrow night. in Chambers all this week at reduced prices. (Staff Photo by McCutchen.) We need to keep an active interest in music, drama, or any of the Be Of the 255 who expressed definite inclinations either way, 81 percent of the seniors, 79 percent of the juniors, 83 percent of the sophomores, and 67 percent of the freshmen requested a form of early rush that did not conflict with classes. Generally, most felt that the Open House was unsatisfactory. Comments on the advantages and disadvantages of the present setup, the poll met with a variety of replies, mostly from those who oppose delayed rush. These comments usually pointed out the needs of freshmen for friendships, aid, and general security in the early months of their college career. These people felt that this “general security” could best be provided through fraternities. ‘PUTTING UP FRONT’ Several mentioned that with a delayed rush many freshmen and fraternity members would beput through the strain of “putting up a good front,” while others held the opinion that the friendly atmosphere on the Davidson campus is largely caused by the close contact of freshmen and upperclassmen during rush. In the main, those who favored delayed rush felt that the present system is based too much on first impressions and that delayed rush would serve to lessen the problem.

USEFULNESS OF POLL

As to how the poll would be used, Waugh said that the IFC, “will shortly come up with a definite plan for the conduct of rush next year. The plan will be based on student opinion and what we feel can best be worked out of the situation.” For a final note, Waugh added, “Last year student apathy was a major factor that led to the threat of sophomore rush. I have it continue to be effective.” but in asking for definite com funds. The money was used to build additional facilities there for homeless boys. Two years ago, $3,200 was raised and employed to purchase equipment for the Christian Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand.

A CHRISTIAN COLLEGE

Taijon is a liberal arts college with 140 students and four departments: English literature, religion, mathematics and physics, and chemistry. It concentrates most heavily on the sciences. The five-year-old college has been fully accredited by the South Korean government from the time of its opening in 1956. It is open to Christian students from South Korea, and stipulates that its faculty, as well as its students, be Christian. The faculty contains some foreigners, including Americans.

VERY SMALL BUDGET

“It operates on a budget of $32,000 a year, which is very small for its needs,” said Williams. At present it requires only about $300 a year for a student's tuition. Furthermore, the recent change of governments in South Korea has increased the college's financial problems. “Because the present Korean government required a tax on the school,” Williams said, “they were forced to cut the faculty salaries by about five percent. The state universities are able to offer the faculty larger salaries than they are now receiving.” Many of the faculty members commute for miles to the college to teach one day a week. The salary cut has made state university offers even more appealing.

‘WESTERN EDUCATION’

Outside of contributions such as the Gift Fund Project, Taijon’s primary financial backing comes from the Board of World Missions of the Presbyterian Church which is the organization most concerned with the college. Williams said that both he and Bob Moore, the Y’s solicitations committee chairman, were confident that they “can raise about $4000" with the wholehearted support of the student body. Williams feels that the outstanding feature of the college is that “they are giving a western type education” with the emphasis on practical knowledge and its application to the problems that surround them.

To S. Korean College

Announcing the YMCA Gift Fund Project of 1961: the purchase of lab equipment, library reference books, and textbooks for Taijon College in South Korea. (Staff Photo by McCutchen.)

Vagabonds Mark Yuletide With ‘Second Shepherds’

The Vagabonds’ second production of the year, “The Second Shepherd’s Play,” will be presented on Dec. 13 and 14 in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Prof. John Sneden and Neal Bushoven will jointly direct the religious play which combines comedy and seriousness. “The Second Shepherd's Play,” written by an unknown playwright, is the masterpiece of medieval drama in England.

CAST OF PLAY

The leading roles of the play are carried by Dr. Ernest Patterson as Mac and Mrs. Margie Murphy as Jill. Other cast members are Pete Myers as the first shepherd; Bill Trotter, the second shepherd; Woody Danenhower, the third shepherd; Mrs. Ann Maloney as Mary and Howard Cornelson as the angel complete the cast. Last year, Patterson and Mrs. Murphy won the best actor and best supporting actress awards at the local drama festival in Charlotte for these same roles.

LIVE ANIMALS

“The Second Shepherd's Play” will be presented here at Davidson last year and went on to win a superior rating at the State Drama Festival at Chapel Hill. The production of the play will be as original as possible with the stage wagon converted into a pageant wagon as used in the original medieval production. Live animals will also be used to add to the authenticity. After the play, the cast will join the audience in the singing of Christmas carols. Tickets for faculty and visitors will be sold at the door. Students will be admitted without charge.

Casting for The Vagabonds’ next play will begin immediately after the opening of the second semester, Sneden stated. The group plans to present George Bernard Shaw's “Androcles and The Lion" Feb. 21, 22 and 23. Based on a fable, the play is a satire on Christianity and the Roman Empire.

New Machines Fail: ‘La Dolce’ Postponed

“La Dolce Vita,” the movie originally scheduled for showing this weekend, will be shown the weekend of Dec. 9 after adjustments and minor repairs have been made to the 35mm projectors. In its place this weekend the 16mm motion picture “Houseboat” starring Sophia Loren and Cary Grant will be offered. The showing next week of “La Dolce Vita” will be the college premiere of the movie, which is expected to gross more box office receipts than any foreign film ever shown in this country.

The presentation of “Gone With the Wind” was a limited success the weekend of Nov. 18 due to technical difficulties encountered while using the 35mm projectors for the first time. However, it is expected that the new machines will be a great improvement over the old 16mm projectors. The Union Film Committee hopes that the school will buy the $1,000 projectors, which are now being rented, at the end of the semester. If they are purchased it will be possible to show such films as “Exodus,” “Spartacus,” and “The Alamo” next semester. Movies already scheduled to be projected on the 35mm machines this semester are “Jazz on a Summer's Day,” “The Lovers,” a French movie which has already fought a record number of censorship battles, and either “Paris Blues” or “One-Eyed Jacks.” The film committee from now on plans to charge one one-hundredth of the rental price of a movie as admission. Thus, the admission price for a movie which costs $25 would be 25 cents per person.

Seven seniors were honored in the tapping for Omicron Delta Kappa, the National Leadership Honor Society for College Men, during chapel on Tuesday, Nov. 21. Rob Abernethy, Jim Alexander, Joe Kelley, D. G. Martin, Joe Robinson, Linton Wray, and Stefan Young were recognized as meeting the requirements for membership. Exemplary character, service and leadership in campus life, and a scholastic ranking in the upper 35 percent of the candidate’s class are prerequisites for membership. In addition, the candidate must have attained, in the opinion of the active members, special distinction in some of the fields of scholarship, athletics, student government, social and religious affairs, publications, speech, and other arts. Plans have been made for the initiation of the seven later this month.

INITIATION THIS MONTH

ODK Selects Seven

Abernethy, from Charlotte, is presently editor-in-chief of Quips and Cranks, a member of the Publication Board, Alpha Epsilon Delta, the honorary pre-medical fraternity, and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He was recently selected for “Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities.” Alexander, whose home is Gastonia, is a Distinguished Military Student, and will be the Cadet Corps Commander second semester. A member of Kappa Alpha Order and Alpha Epsilon Delta, he is a letterman on the wrestling team. Kelley is from Charlotte and is majoring in biology. Captain of the soccer team this year, he is a member of D-Club. He is a Distinguished Military Student, and a student representative of the Athletic Policy Committee, as well as an IMAC representative. He is a member of Sigma Delta Pi, the honorary Spanish fraternity, and of Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Martin, whose home is here in Davidson, has served as secretary-treasurer of the Student Council and Senior Class officer. He is a member of the D-Club and is captain of the basketball team this year. He was on the YMCA Cabinet, was selected for “Who's Who,” and is also a member of Delta Phi Alpha, the honorary German fraternity. Robinson, from Lenoir, has a double major in English and economics. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and was recently named to “Who's Who.” He is president of the Concert Band and the Methodist Student Movement, and is a member of Delta Phi Alpha and Phi Delta Theta. Wray, who is from Charlotte, is the Cadet Corps Commander for this semester, and is a Distinguished Military Student. He is on the track and wrestling teams, and is a member of the D-Club and the Beaver Club. He is on the Honor Court, and is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta, president of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the honorary chemistry fraternity, secretary of Scabbard and Blade, secretary of Sigma Delta Psi, the honorary athletic fraternity, and vice-president of Kappa Sigma.

Young, whose home is in Charleston, W. Va., is a chemistry major. He is on the Honor Court, and is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon. He is on the tennis team and is captain of the swimming team. He is a Distinguished Military Student, and is vice-president of Kappa Alpha Order.