FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sideline Comments
By STEVE CLARK

Another Frank Ramsey?

Coach Lefty Driesell may have another Frank Ramsey headed this way next year. Ramsey, for the benefit of those who
don’t follow pro basketball very closely, is a star for the Boston Celtics, perennial powerhouse of the NBA. Although Ramsey
is not a starter (the Celts have a pretty good backcourt combination in Bob Cousy and Bill Sharman), he is
noted for his ability to come off the bench and pour in some quick points. Some Celtic fans describe Ramsey
as the “point a minute man,” and many contend he could keep up his pace if playing full time.

Anyway, to relate the possibility of a basketball player similar to Ramsey coming to Davidson next year, it was learned
this week that Barry Teague, a 6-1 guard from Madisonville, Ky., and one of Driesell’s prize catches, had received the
Frank Ramsey Award in his school this year. The award amounts to a most valuable player award, and it honors
Ramsey, who once starred for Madisonville High and later the University of Kentucky.

Teague is described as a hustler with quick hands, and the experts up that way claim that he was “perhaps
the best defensive guard in the state this past season.” And that’s saying a lot when you consider that Kentucky
has as many good basketball players as it does fast horses. We saw Teague in a pick-up game down at
the gym when he was visiting the school one weekend, and believe us, he’s not all defense — that fellow
can shoot a basketball too, and from about 35 feet. (In other words, way out.)

But if you think Driesell is happy about Teague coming here, consider how Tom Stevens feels. Last week, Teague hurled
the second no-hitter of his high school career. It seems he struck out the first nine men he faced and
16 in all. That’s right, baseball fans, we got a pitcher coming here!

Thanks, Men

While passing out orchids to Bill Dole and his football players last week, we left out three very important men
who contributed very much to the promising spring drills. The three men are all high school football coaches, who consented
to give Dole their time and effort this spring, when Dole’s regular assistants are so involved in other sports. The
men are Dave Harris of Harding in Charlotte, Joe Fopp of Mooresville High, and Don Hipps of Garinger High in
Charlotte. These three aided Dole tremendously in his effort to pick the ’Cats up where they left off in the
fall, and we truly believe that Harris, Fopp, and Hipps were instrumental in cooking up some of the excellent spirit
obvious in the Wildcat teams and the Red-White game.

When spring drills opened, Dole comically commented to his charges when introducing the new faces, “I've been trying to get
Harris over here as an assistant for years, but he says he can’t afford to take the pay cut.” So
we extend a hearty thanks and an invitation to return to these three gentlemen, whose hours of hard work and
sweat may pay off next fall, when they return as spectators to watch the new-look Wildcats roll over some bigger
foes.

Linksters To Match Wake Forest Tuesday
By GEORGE PEPPER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College golf team will meet the Deacons of Wake Forest in Thomasville Tuesday afternoon in a match that
is primarily scheduled to give the ’Cats experience with top-rate competition. Last Friday the Deacons posted a 19-2 victory over
the Davidson linksters. Coach Tom Scott is looking for better results this time, and explains, “A victory is highly improbable,
but the experience will be invaluable.”

FALL TO FURMAN

The Keydets, sporting four southpaw hurlers on their pitching staff, are rated by Davidson Coach Tom Stevens as “a good
team, not on top, but not on the bottom either.” VMI, a team the ‘Cats did not face last season,
are spearheaded by All-Conference pitcher Joe Gedro, a smooth lefty who chalked up four of the Keydets’ six wins last
year, including a win over conference champion Citadel. In addition to his pitching capabilities, Gedro roams the outfield in excellent
style and batted a respectable .375 last season, ninth best in the conference. Other top performers opposing the 'Cats tomorrow
include second baseman Weldon Edding and shortstop Kenny Reeder, who form one of the league's better double play combinations.

Tuesday and Wednesday of next week, the locals entertain The Citadel in a two-day affair. Last year the two teams
split a doubleheader here, Davidson taking the first, 8-7, and The Citadel the second, 14-8. The Davidson victory in that
doubleheader was the only loss suffered by the Charleston team in conference play.

Pitching Rich Keydets Host Double-Header
By JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Wildcat baseballers, at present with a 5-12-1 record, clip off two of their remaining seven games in a double-header
at VMI in Lexington, tomorrow.

POWERFUL CITADEL HERE NEXT WEEK

Stevens also cites Bulldogs Dick Jones and Henry Mura as excellent hitters. Mura led the league last year with a
terrific .478 average, while Jones placed tenth with .367. In addition, Jones was home run champion with 7 round-trippers. “The
Citadel is real good,” admits Stevens. “But VPI beat them after we split with VPI, so you can’t tell.”

In this week’s baseball action, Davidson economized on a frugal four hits to overcome Belmont Abbey, 6-4. Five Wildcat markers
came on two hits and a lot of walks in one inning as the Abbey pitcher literally blew up. The
part of Harry Smith and Tommy Tuttle aided Tommy Hamilton nab his fourth victory of the season. Stevens rates Smith
and Tuttle as ‘the best combination I've ever had here.”

Wednesday, a heavy afternoon rain cancelled the game with Furman. The Wildcats had previously fallen to the Davidson victim earlier
in the season, 6-5.

Stevens reminds fans that the Wake Forest game, originally scheduled for May 11 here, has been changed to Friday night,
May 12, at 7:30 p.m. in Mooresville.

Tommy Hamilton 59

As of Wednesday, they were the only remaining undefeated team in the league, as last week’s unbeatens fell to various
teams on Thursday prior to the weekend, and this past Monday and Wednesday. If play was a little ragged this
week, everyone had plenty of reasons for explanation. After frolicking all weekend and giving a pint of blood on Monday
and Tuesday, I-F’ers just weren’t up to par.

Monday's results were as follows: The SAE’s knocked the Sigma Chis from the unbeaten ranks; the KA’s clipped the Pi
Kapps, 9-6; the Kappa Sigs outlasted the Phi Delts, 14-13, as the losers left the winning run stranded on the
base paths in the last inning when Kappa Sig shortstopHarry Tart gobbled up a grounder and threw to first for
the final out; the Phi Gams beat the Pikas, 14-8; and the Betas defeated the Independents, 9-5. On Wednesday, a
heavy rain threatened to cancel all games, but by 4 p.m., the hot sun had I-F players raring to go.
Thus ten teams slushed their way to the fields, and something resembling a rhinoceros party ensued. Basepath running was particularly
amusing, and no one found the art of sliding a difficult thing. The SAE's clobbered the Sigma Nus, 16-6; the
ATO’s belted the Pi Kapps, 16-12; the Kappa Sigs beat the Sigma Chis, 14-8; the KA’s nipped the Pikas, 9-8;
and the Phi Delts rallied to down the Betas, 13-10.

KA
SAE
Phi Gam
Kappa Sig
Phi Delt
Beta
Sigma Chi
Independents
Pikas
ATO
Sig Eps
Pi Kapps
Sigma Nus

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

‘Cat Nine At VMI Tomorrow

Several timely double plays on dashes. But Davidson lost the meet, 71-69. (Staff Photo by Jerry Abernathy.)

BOB CORDLE gives it all he’s got while broad jumping against VPI Tuesday. Cordle’s efforts nabbed him a third place
in this event, plus a second place in the 100-yard and 220-yard.

How the ‘Cats Are Hitting and Pitching

Tommy Hamilton
Jerry Jacques
Tom Harris
Jerry Shelton
Graham Showalter
Nick Daves

AB R H RBI 2B 3B HR
14 9 22 11 16 19 17 15 9 11 10

348 314 297 281 260 255 246 239 216 170

DAVIDSON RELAYS

Six Track Teams On Local Cinders

By JERRY TRAMMELL
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Tomorrow Davidson will play host to at least five visiting teams for the Davidson Relays. The six competing teams will
be High Point College, Pembroke, Presbyterian, Lenoir Rhyne, Catawba, and Davidson.

The Davidson College cindermen were narrowly nudged out of a come-back victory over Virginia Tech Tuesday afternoon on the Davidson
track. The last hope was lost in a three-way tie for second place in the pole vault. The Wildcats erased
most of a large VPI lead by taking first places in the hop-skip-jump and the pole vault but then failed
to capture undisputed possession of second place in the pole vault that was necessary to put the locals ahead.

KIZER STARS

Taking eight first places, VPI collected 71 points against the Wildcats, who gathered seven first places and 69 points. Ed
Kizer led the Davidson scoring.

Coach Roger Thrift was disappointed but still proud of his team’s performance. Concerning the meet he said, “I certainly think
that it was a team effort; all the boys did well, and it could have gone either way. At any
rate it was an exciting meet.”

First place winners, school, and time or distance in Tuesday’s Davidson-VPI track meet were as follows: 100-yard dash — Ed
Kizer, Davidson, 10.1 seconds; 220-yard dash — Kizer, Davidson, 22.7 seconds; 440-yard dash — Colavita, VPI, 50.6 seconds; 880-yard run
— Simpson, VPI, 2:03.2 minutes; mile run — Castagnola, VPI, 4:22 minutes; 2-mile run — Castagnola, VPI, 10:06.2 minutes; 120-yard
high hurdles — Hardwick, VPI, 16 seconds; 220-yard low hurdles — Hardwick, VPI, 25.7 seconds; hop-skip-jump — Childs, Davidson, 43
feet; high jump — Fraser, Davidson, 6 feet, 1½ inches; broad jump — Melton, VPI, 22 feet, 1 inch; pole
vault — Hamilton, Davidson, 11 feet, 6 inches; discus — Reece, VPI, 132 feet, 8 inches; shot put — Paine,
VPI, 45 feet, 3½ inches; javelin — Boggs, Davidson; and mile relay — Davidson (Kizer, John Harris, John Sharpe, and
Roger Beebe), 3:25 seconds.

Southern Conference Spring Tournaments

TENNIS
May 4-6 Charleston, S.C.

GOLF
May 8-9 Richmond, Va.

TRACK
May 12-13 Norfolk, Va.

This past Monday, the linksters played Furman at Charlotte in a return match. Apparently the effects of a rigorous Spring
Frolics had not worn off, as an earlier 14-13 ’Cat victory was reversed to a 14-13 win for Furman. John
Crute was medalist for the day, carding a 74. Captain Verner Stanley will lead his squad against N.C. State next
Friday in the season's last match.

TOURNAMENT

On May 8-9 the team will go to Richmond for the Southern Conference tournament, in which Stanley was last year’s
champion.

This week with three successive matches on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. On Monday, only Andy Sherrill managed to gain a
point, as the netters fell to a strong Virginia team, 8-1. The next day, the Wildcats redeemed themselves with a
resounding triumph over Richmond, 9-0. The final match of the tour found the ’Cats in Williamsburg, where they were upset
by William and Mary, 6-3. Once again Sherrill won his singles match, making him three for three on the trip,
while Richardson scholar Nick Cooper whipped his opponent too. Sherrill and Cooper also won their doubles match.

TASTEE FREEZ
Serving Hot Dogs, Hamburgers, French Fries
Mon - Sat.: 10:00 A.M. ‘Till 10:00 P.M.
Sun.: 1:00 P.M. to 9:00 P.M.
Phone 892-8468
Route 115
CORNELIUS, N.C.

Do wings? Decidedly not. In fact, most executive jobs are on the ground. Of course, all officers may apply for
pilot and navigator training if they meet the eligibility requirements. There will always be a need for piloted aircraft. And
it is foreseeable that in your working lifetime, there will be piloted spacecraft—piloted and navigated by Air Force officers.

But right now, there is also a big future for college-trained Air Force officers on the ground. New and exciting
technical jobs are opening up. Important administrative positions must be filled as World War II officers move into retirement.

How can you—a college student—become an Air Force officer? First, there's Air Force ROTC. Then for college graduates, men and
women in certain fields, there is Officer Training School. The graduate of its three-month course wins a commission as a
second lieutenant. Other ways are the Navigator Training program, and the Air Force Academy.

Some benefits that go with being an Air Force Officer. Starting salary plus allowances compare with the average in equivalent
civilian jobs. Then there’s free medical and dental care, thirty-day vacation, the chance to win graduate degrees at Air Force
expense, and liberal retirement provisions.

No, Air Force officers do not need wings to move up. There's plenty doing on the ground. Perhaps you could
be one of these young executives in blue. Ask your local Air Force Recruiter. Or write, Officer Career Information, Dept.
SC13, Box 7608, Washington 4, D.C., if you want further information about the navigator training or Officer Training School programs.

U.S. Air Force
There’s a place for professional achievement on the Aerospace Team.
