Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Still Wandering In The Wilderness

The great discrepancy between the interview with Dean Johnston in this week’s DAVIDSONIAN and that in the issue of Sept. 29 with the seven students who studied abroad last year is proof enough of the long-standing ignorance and confusion at Davidson about study abroad. Hardly anyone knows we are affiliated in a Junior Year program with Vanderbilt. Nor is Prof. Thompson‘s position widely known or understood. The student, we are told, must take the initiative and responsibility for foreign study upon himself. We can appreciate how difficult this responsibility is in the light of the consensus of the opinion of junior year students: “Davidson has hampered students’ going abroad by lack of information, authoritative advice, and enthusiasm.”

We must conclude that apathy and confusion at Davidson strongly discourage foreign study. Many of the nation’s leading and progressive institutions have found so much benefit in sending their students abroad that they have set up special programs for doing so. There would doubtless be some of the same benefits for a school located 20 miles from the rest of the world and in the midst of southern provincialism. Davidson has long admitted the advantage of having foreign students here, but as yet remains blind to the superior advantages of Davidson students going abroad. Not only would there be the academic advantages of learning the language, culture, and history of another people, but the experience of those who have studied abroad shows that they gain in a deepening and widening of their interests and attitudes and a fresh look at their studies. Surely this is one answer to the infamous Davidson apathy and provincialism. As such, the college has a responsibility to itself to exploit the opportunity.

Even if the college does not encourage foreign study, it, as an educational institution, has a responsibility to offer at least a certain minimum of academic advice to its students. Naturally, there will always be some risks in foreign study, but it is unfair and unreasonable to ask a student to risk academic suicide—and on the basis of meager, misleading, inaccurate, or false information, at that. Davidson should at least put itself in the position of giving some of the most basic academic advice about foreign study to its students.

Finally, the college has a responsibility to its own academic interests. Under the present system of evaluation of credits, and given the continued lack of knowledge about foreign institutions at Davidson, a student could conceivably spend two weeks at a foreign university, pay $60 tuition, and receive full credit for a year at Davidson. We are fully confident that this has not been the case and we admire greatly a very wise and understanding liberalism on the part of the administration in transferring credit. As the number of students who study abroad increases, however, the situation could become disastrous. We agree with the attitude of the administration that the classroom experience abroad is neither the most educational nor the most important, but the college has a responsibility to encourage good academic work and protect its own standards. We must, then, develop a better system for the evaluation of academic work. This is a specialized and complex field which requires a rather detailed knowledge about foreign education. The responsibility should be delegated to one informed individual who could advise the students and faculty about academic problems.

We believe that the college should go further, encouraging some of its qualified students to spend a semester or year at a foreign university. Information about junior year programs and independent study should be made readily available. Further affiliation with programs such as that at Vanderbilt would be a logical step in the right direction. Accurate and qualified advice should be offered to the prospective student to eliminate some of the unnecessary risks and hindrances to foreign study. We hope Davidson College will live up to its responsibilities and make use of its opportunities in the rapidly expanding area of study abroad. We can and should make a reality of the 1-2-5 Club slogan “Davidson, an international college.”

L.K.

In The Palm Of His Hand

In assembly Wednesday, Bob Stone officially ended a highly successful, even phenomenal job as Freshman Advisor and head of the Freshman Court. Singlehandedly, he has led the Class of ’65 in a sincere, dignified manner—and what is more, has retained their respect and cooperation. We surely haven't seen the likes of this in our three years here. Stone has demonstrated the wisdom of the Student Council’s action last year in abolishing the Court of Control and its humiliating tactics which failed to do a thing for freshmen year after year. It simply had nothing constructive to offer. The Class of ’65 still seriously lacks unity—and we don’t necessarily mean unity as displayed in a riot or hat burning. However, Stone tells us “his boys” will have something to say about true unity this weekend.

Upperclassmen proved conclusively this fall that they are not really concerned about a court, or its efforts to “put freshmen in their place.” It is merely insecurity and stale tradition which keeps it on. Only 15 freshmen have been turned in during the six weeks—and some of these on trumped-up charges. We remain unconvinced of the value of several of the regulations or even of a need for them. Stone has wisely held the spirit and true intent of the court above its sometimes superfluous laws. We congratulate Bob Stone for his one-man accomplishment. He restored dignity to a position sadly mishandled in recent years.

A Formal Proposal

The IFC restored an almost dead tradition this Homecoming. The formal dance on Friday night was the first since Midwinters 1960. From what we saw, the dance was more than just successful. A good crowd stayed even after midnight, because Sam Donahue’s Tommy Dorsey Orchestra took an early break, then played straight through 12. The figure, complete with tuxedos, formals, and bouquets of roses, looked worthwhile for the first time in a long time. The music was good and danceable, and was a welcome contrast to the rock-and-roll featured at fraternity after-dance parties. We hope the IFC was as pleased with the dances as many of the students seemed to be. We'd like to see the formal dance restored as a regular tradition. It certainly proved its popularity last week.

D. B. S.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editors
Lee Kirby
Photographer
David Jordan
Gene Adcock
Joe McCutchen

Hey, Hey, Hell’s Arrived? ... By Howell ’64

REPLIES TO HEY

Kirby Sees Division Of German States

BY LEE KIRBY

Concerning Juergen Hey's article on this page last week, I would like to point out that in referring to a feeling between Catholics meant a feeling much like that between Yankee and Rebel. It is not only a religious antipathy but a historical, cultural, and sociological one as well. Nor did I maintain that all religious and party alignments are the same. Even Hey must admit, however, that in spite of some exceptions politics in Germany do have a tendency to follow these historical-religious lines. And in spite of the fact that the majority of East Germans do not support the current government, we will make a dangerous mistake if we underestimate the number and power of the communists in East Germany or if we ignore a natural feeling on the part of many, especially youths, that they are East Germans, Policies of the government.

GREATEST OBSTACLE

The greatest obstacle to German unity remains the de facto existence of two sovereign German states. The United States has been put in the embarrassing, ironic position of refusing to sign a treaty of peace with the German people because it does not acknowledgeThis dualism. The creation of two German states in 1955 brought about a great change in the complexion of the reunification problem. The exact nature of these changes was revealed at the Geneva Conference in October and November of 1955. Austria had just been reunited as a neutral nation, but few observers held such hopes for Germany. Both Dulles and Adenauer believed that Germany could not be satisfied as a neutral nation. Germany wanted to play a role in international politics, and the United States wanted a strong, rejuvenated West Germany on the side of the West.

POLICY OF INTEREST

Neither the United States nor the USSR was willing to negotiate. Their policy on the problem of the newly created German states and not their bargaining is of interest to us. Of obvious primary interest was the stalemate about the military power and alignment, if any, that a united Germany would have. The West proposed that Germany be made a member of the Atlantic Alliance. The proposal was obviously completely unacceptable to Russia.

WEST COULD NOT TOLERATE

Dulles, ignoring the possibility of a neutral Germany, explained that Germany must be a member of the Atlantic Alliance, because the West could not tolerate a united Germany in the Warsaw Pact. Willy Brandt's Social Democrats (SPD), the “center” party which at that time struck a mean between Adenauer's conservative CDU and the East German Communist Party, cried that the Western proposal was calculated to invite a categorical Soviet refusal and wreck the conference. Molotov maintained that the remilitarization of Germany was incompatible with the security of Europe. The formation of military pact systems has always been the prelude to war in Europe, he said.

The second main issue was the method of reunifying two states which were following antithetical paths of social and economic development.

WESTERN “SHOW-DOWN”

The Western Powers submitted a so-called “show-down” plan for free German elections in one year. Although the Russians had been willing to accept free elections before the formation of two German states, they maintained that the problem was now more complicated. The Russians emphasized that Socialist reforms were so advanced in the German Democratic Republic that a more complex plan of reunion must be devised. The economic, governmental, and sociological problems were now too great to be solved by mere elections. Western observers scoffed. Since that time, approximately 25% of the youths reared under East German socialism who fled to the West have returned to the East. West German officials cite an inability to adjust to western society and economy as the chief reason for the returns.

MOLOTOV PROPOSES

Molotov proposed that, since free elections concerned all the German people, representatives of both German states be allowed to sit in on the conference. He pointed out that, although Russia could not approve of the “Junker” regime in western Germany, they had opened diplomatic relations in the interest of peace. The West firmly refused to admit the representatives of the German governments to a conference about Germany. Behind the deadlock lay the difficult problem of the western refusal to recognize the German Democratic Republic.

REFUSE TO SACRIFICE

The Russians and the German Communists refused to sacrifice their new socialist experiment. The CDU and the United States refused to sacrifice the new German wealth in the economic and military union of Western Europe. On November 12, the German Federal Republic ceremonially inaugurated its new Army in Bonn. On November 16, the Geneva conference on German reunification closed in failure. I believe the failure was a permanent one.

Phillips

Dear Editor:

I have a complaint against the Freshman Council. It is not representative of the class. At their first meeting last week, the Council discussed a class project, which was proposed by “Advisor” Bob Stone. These 22 boys then decided on the project and presented it to the class. The project was set before us—to be supported or rejected. We had no chance to even suggest a different project! This is democratic? I feel that the various Council members should meet with their respective halls and take suggestions for a class project. Then these ideas would be conveyed back to the Council, where the best ones would be selected. The class would then vote on the best ideas, thus deciding the class project. Please permit the class members to say something about the “class's” decisions!

Denny Phillips

Blasts Council: Stone

Dear Editor:

I disagree with the point that the Freshman Council is not a representative group. From the viewpoint of a tired old senior, I think it is the finest collection of freshmen that the council has seen in four years. As for the project, it is not “the project,” but “a project.” Others may be suggested at any time. Evidently the majority of freshmen thought it was a good thing, for the Council went way over its goal. It was purely voluntary, no one was forced to contribute. To Mr. Phillips, the Freshman Council is young; however, they already had growing pains. You watch them and watch democracy work! A word on the freshman class—after a period of over twenty years, I believe this class realizes the reason behind the Freshman Court—not to make them obey rules, but instead to see the traditions behind Davidson College. I say watch the class of ‘65, for I sincerely believe that they are going to inject something into this school that died along with our first wildcat.

Bob Stone

Who’s On The Lord’s Side?

By Hallmark ’65

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Ferris Blames Students For “Transfer System”

Dear Editor:

As the routine of studies gets under way at Davidson, the familiar cries from dissatisfied students return. (Unfair writs, difficult reviews, etc.) Most of these criticisms stem from the Davidson “transfer system,” i.e. the transfer of information from professor to student and back to the professor on reviews. Since this “transfer” usually takes place without any creative thought on the part of the student, any interest in the subject soon becomes drudgery. The result is a negative attitude toward education in general and professors in particular. Education becomes a pain which must be temporarily endured. Exactly where does the fault lie in this system? The easiest answer is to blame the professors. After all, they set up our educational program. I don’t think this is a constructive attitude toward the situation. The real fault lies with the students. The professors are using an inferior educational system because the students allow them to do so. Lack of student interest enables a professor to present his course in any manner he desires, because he knows the students will accept his material without question. If students took an active interest in their courses and questioned some of the material “transferred” to them, the professors would be much more likely to improve the system. The only way to improve the “transfer system” is through student initiative.

Bill Ferris

THE DAVIDSONIAN and the Student Council will conduct a poll next week to determine student opinion on the desired length of exam schedules and the arrangement of exams within these periods. The poll will be taken following Chapel Tuesday. Results will be presented to the Academic Scheduling Committee for consideration in planning next year’s schedule, and will appear in the next issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Don Saunders
Cartoonists
Managing Editors — John A. Carson, Joe Howell, Mac Plaxico, Dan Adams
Sports Editor — Steve Clark
Advertising Manager — Ed Willer
Assignments Editor — Bill Roe
Feature Editor — Clay Atkins
News Editor — Sam Fort
Assistant Bus. Manager — Rick Finch, Doug Ackerman

PEANUTS

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.