Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1961

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

John Evans For Dean

In 1958 THE DAVIDSONIAN supported a man named Grier Martin for the presidency of Davidson College. We are not quite so cocky as to presume that Grier Martin was selected for the job because of this newspaper’s backing—but we do think that perhaps THE DAVIDSONIAN’S support was a fair indication of student feeling.

We now throw another hat into another ring. We urgently request that Dr. John B. Evans be closely considered for the position of Dean of Students. We make this request without having communicated with Dr. Evans—we have no way of telling whether or not he would accept the job if it were offered to him. But we think it's worth a try.

Evans is presently pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Auburn, Alabama. He taught Bible here from 1957 until last spring when he resigned to accept the Auburn pastorate. He also coached the freshman wrestling team and helped Coach Charlie Parker with the varsity. Students and athletes who were in contact with him knew him as a fine teacher and a good friend.

John Evans, more than any man we can think of, is generously qualified to be a dean of students. He is a graduate of Davidson College and is aware of the problems that students here face. He is a man who is acquainted with Davidson's traditions, taboos, and philosophies—and yet he is one who has the foresight and courage to break a tradition that is a stagnation or to debunk a philosophy that has become a dogma. He is young. He has been away from the school as a student for only ten years, and as a teacher only a year. But he has the maturity that makes youth a tremendous asset rather than a liability.

John Evans is not a pastor who would relish leaving a church to which he has given himself for only a year. But the need here is a great one. Perhaps he could be persuaded. It is well worth a try.

A Good Choice

It is evident that President Martin made a good choice when he appointed John Kuykendall the first fraternity liaison officer. Since his appointment in early January, Kuykendall has been responsible for ensuring that all fraternity members comply with the College's fraternity regulations. He has also been responsible for keeping the Faculty abreast of fraternity activities and briefing fraternity presidents on Faculty attitudes on fraternity affairs.

To say the least, Kuykendall has a difficult assignment. Since January Faculty-fraternity relations have been much improved: credit should go to John Kuykendall and a group of fraternity presidents who have been willing to face the necessity of compromising with the College. For the first time in Davidson's history, the “hell” has been almost completely removed from Greek Week. This would not have been possible without a better understanding between the Faculty and fraternity members.

Kuykendall has spent many hours working with the fraternity presidents on Greek Week. He has approved fraternity activities which are in keeping with the Greek Week regulations and has made necessary changes in proposed Greek Week schedules to prevent violations. He will enforce the regulations, a job which the IFC in past years has failed to do. Few people expected Kuykendall to accomplish so much so quickly.

Kuykendall sees his office as more than just a Greek Week policeman. He has said that he hopes to be able to improve the accuracy of fraternity bookkeeping and encourage fraternity advisors to become more actively interested in their jobs. To John Kuykendall go our congratulations; he has shown the faculty that the fraternities, with encouragement, can live up to their ideals. He has shown the fraternities that they have a definite responsibility to Davidson College.

R. L. M.

An Excellent Beginning

It is too early yet to make any intelligent appraisal—or any predictions—concerning the administration of John F. Kennedy; his term is not yet two weeks old. But one thing is clear, even to his detractors: he has made an excellent start.

His inaugural address—a brilliant expression of his hopes for America—has won praise from all quarters as a really great speech. His early official acts—increasing surplus food quotas to depressed areas and revoking the controversial Eisenhower directive recalling overseas servicemen’s dependents—have been effective balm on sore spots, and have seen a real boost in morale to many. The new President has displayed an eagerness to exert the power and influence of the presidency through maximum use of the executive order—something his predecessor seldom did. His State of the Union message, whether or not the picture he painted was “too black”—showed an admirable willingness on the President’s part to tell Americans hard facts as he sees them. In Kennedy’s press conferences and public appearances he presents an image of coolness and confidence which is undeniably impressive.

So far, for Kennedy, so good. Perhaps the new national mood of optimism and widespread approval are common things for a new administration; we remember the country’s joy when Eisenhower rode into Washington on his promise to “throw the rascals out.” Perhaps, for many, disillusionment is not far off; many citizens remember the Eisenhower years—which began in hope—as years of sluggishness and disenchantment born of such fiascoes as the Goldfine episode and the U-2 incident. But we hope, and we're inclined to believe—that this will not be the case. John Kennedy is tough, talented and dedicated. He has surrounded himself with men recognized for intellect as well as business acumen. And he has shown in a short time that when he says, “vigah”—he means it.

E. S. D.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF B. Millner
BUSINESS MANAGER Charlie Rowe
Associate Editors Tom Colvin
Feature Editor Leonard Richardson
Photographers Gene Wells
Managing Editors David Jordan, Jerry Abernathy, Don Saunders
Assignment Editor Mac Plaxico
Sports Editor Bill Godwin
Advertising Manager Olin Nisbet
Circulation Manager Jimmy Platt
Assistant Bus. Manager Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Professor Polley: The Author Distorts History In Order To “Prove” His Case

By DR. MAX POLLEY

(Editor’s note: Dr. Polley is an Associate Professor of Bible and is faculty advisor to the Book-of-the-Year Program. This year’s Book-of-the-Year is Exodus by Leon Uris. The author will be on campus February 22-23.)

Exodus is a controversial book. Its appeal rests not upon its literary merits, for it is not well written, but upon the sympathy it creates for the “homeless” Jew. Coupled with the trial of Adolf Eichmann our attention is focused upon one of humanity's greatest crimes—the extermination of six million European Jews. With forthrightness the author portrays the centuries of torture, humiliation, and indignity that have been forced upon the Jews. Having known a Rabbi in Michigan whose parents were made into soap by Nazi Germans, I read these pages with deep concern.

DISTORTIONS

But it also disturbs me that the author distorts history in order to “prove” his case! He intends to make you anti-Arab and anti-British and will stop at nothing to assure his success. The following instances of such distortion are taken from “The Exodus: A Distortion of the Truth” available in the Paper Back Store for 25c.

1. The Arabs are pictured as dirty, backward, dishonorable, and cowardly while the Israelis are above reproach.

2. Every raid of a freedom fighter on an Arab village is for “retaliation,” even when they machine gun defenseless people.

PARTITION

3. In connection with the U. N. vote for partition the Arabs “forced” the Greeks upon their side while the Jews appealed to each nation’s sense of morality. (James Forrestal, former U. S. Secretary of Defense, in reference to this vote for partition, writes: “The methods that had been used to bring coercion and duress on other nations in the General Assembly bordered closely on to scandal.”)

4. Mr. Uris would also have you believe that the Zionists purchased the land legally from the Arabs and reclaimed it from the desert. Actually, by the time of partition they had purchased onlyabout 7 per cent of the land; the rest was acquired by forceful occupation and terrorism.

By Millner

Conservatives, Liberals Face Approaching Battle

Much attention is being devoted these days by columnists and journalists to the battle between conservatives and liberals which may erupt during the present session of Congress and to the conflict that is beginning to take shape within the Republican Party between Senator Barry Goldwater and Gov. Nelson Rockefeller. Moreover, Goldwater, among others, is taking every opportunity to point out what he sees as a growth in conservative strength which will soon reverse the liberal trend that has dominated the country since the days of Roosevelt. With these facts in mind, an examination of the opposing philosophies becomes essential for the public-minded citizen. For a proper understanding of these two positions, one must note two “revolutions” which are having a profound effect throughout the world today.

REVOLUTION

The first of these “revolutions” is the tendency toward collectivization. Collectivization sounds like a purely Communistic concept, but it is a phenomenon which is sweeping the world, including, to a considerable degree, the United States. The individual is losing his importance as an individual. Nowadays, everyone clamors to join the Rotary Club, the Elks, fraternities—in short, groups. Many forces have joined to add to the ascendence of the Group, industrialization and urbanization being two. Even in the area of business we find widespread collectivization. We speak of Big Business, which is business that has been collectivized to a great degree. Collectivization is also evident in government as is demonstrated by the continuing debate over centralization of power in the hands of the federal government, and by the growing number of governmental welfare agencies. The philosophy is, “As individuals we are small and insignificant, but as groups we demand and deserve attention.” To cure its faults, mankind is turning from the individual and is resorting to the collective Group.

TECHNOLOGY

The second revolution, which can be stated simply, comes as a result of the technological revolution and its promise for the world economy. It is now possible for man to envision a world without want. For the first time in history, man can lick the problems of hunger and poverty. The promise of modern economics has caught the fancy of man from Ghana to Havana. Liberalism is right up to date, taking the principles of both of these revolutions as its creed. Centralization of power in the hands of the federal government is viewed as a natural companion to the increased collectivism within our society. Big Business, Big Church, and Big Army necessitate Big Government.

FREEDOM

Conservatism, on the other hand, places its primary emphasis on individual freedom. It holds that even in the face of the two “revolutions,” individual rights are not outdated. Rather, the duty of protecting individual rights is simply multiplied. In its program to protect individual rights, conservatives cast a wary look at any legislation which places more power into the hands of the government. Conservatives operate on the principle that Big Government tends to restrict individual freedom, and, in this day of Big Government, we must protect our rights with increased vigor. The resulting debate is often bitter. In the face of the conservative principles, the liberal often cries, “What rights are you protecting, the right to starve?” The conservative replies, “What good is a full stomach when your individual rights are denied?”

SHIP SINKING

The author attacks the British for allowing the Patria to sink off Palestine’s shores drowning hundreds of refugees. He fails to mention that the Zionists sank the ship themselves to create public sympathy for the cause.

Only the first clause of the Balfour Declaration (that promises a national home to the Jewish people) is quoted, while the sections guaranteeing the rights of the Arabs in Palestine and anti-Zionist Jews throughout the world were omitted. Above all, however, it is on behalf of my Jewish friends that I find this book most disturbing. For it eulogizes the creation of a Jewish state and places in jeopardy their position as American Jews. Israel is presented as the home of Jews and the call is for all to return.

BEN-GURION

In 1948 at the 25th Zionist Congress in Jerusalem Ben-Gurion said: “Every religious Jew has daily violated the precept of Judaism by remaining in exile.” Without thinking, I fear, the U.S. Jew has poured $500 million into Israel in the last twelve years. If they would reflect upon their heritage they would realize that Judaism will fulfill her highest calling as a religion and not as a nation. I urge the reader to approach Exodus critically. There are at least two sides to this issue. For a presentation of the Arab cause consult the open reserve shelf in the library under Book-of-the-Year Program.

FOCUS

They Know Too Little--Writer Says Of Trustees

By ERVIN DUGGAN

The Trustees are coming. Soon they will arrive for another day-long meeting, and most likely a familiar pattern will be repeated: They will hear and approve a basketful of progress reports, financial statements and other announcements. They will nod collective assent upon hearing a number of suggestions from faculty and administration. They will roll pious eyes heavenward at the mention of student drinking ... the current “problem”... but most will avert their eyes when the more serious moral problem of their own no-Negro admissions policy is broached. Then they will leave. We'll scarcely know they’ve been here, except for a notice in the next day’s Charlotte Observer: an account of the proceedings, replete with quotes and announcements of new gifts or new progress. Chances are, most of them will leave knowing little more about Davidson than when they arrived. And such knowledge, for too many, is precious little knowledge.

The trustees, as even a casual conversation with some will reveal, are not well-informed. To begin with, unlike Harvard’s Board of Overseers and a half dozen other Ivy League Boards, Davidson’s trustees are generally not distinguished by intellectual achievements but by worldly success. They are big businessmen, big doctors, big lawyers, big preachers. Some, quite plainly, have no particular qualifications for educational policy-making. In addition, the Board is too large (over fifty members) and meets too infrequently (three times a year) to be as effective as possible.

Suppose we quizzed the trustees: How many could offer a sensible and original opinion on the role of Christian higher education in America without floundering—or lamely resorting to quoting “experts”? How many “conservative” trustees could defend segregation at Davidson with some really well-considered argument... and not the old, irrelevant red flag of “intermarriage”? How many have given real thought to the anachronisms of Davidson policy: the faculty’s religious ironclad oath, for instance? How many really know what’s being taught here? How many are really, really familiar with Davidson College... and not just with administration reports, the alumni journal and the newspaper?

One Florida trustee used to write to a student friend: “Would like to see you when I’m there for Trustees’ meeting. Suppose we meet in front of the Chamberlain Building...” And recently a college official termed “appalling” the ignorance of trustees in fraternity-house bull sessions two years ago. Some, he said, didn’t even know Davidson students attend chapel three times a week! Since then, an effort has been made to sharpen trustee awareness a little bit. But more should be done: A faculty-student liaison committee could prepare reading lists on pertinent educational subjects for the trustees, and issue a monthly newsletter to trustees on issues of importance. The college could urge that every trustee pay a campus visit each year of about three days’ length during which time he would live in a dormitory, interview students and professors, eat at fraternity houses and attend classes daily. Trustee-student-faculty conferences and debates should be scheduled... as often as possible. And trustees should never leave the campus without having long, informal, unrehearsed, wide-open, no-holds-barred conversations with students and faculty... on the really important issues, not on innocuous topics assigned by the public relations office.

Davidson’s trustees are forming policy for this institution as it moves into an era of national crisis in higher education. They should not be ignorant... not even a little bit ignorant.