PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN / FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1961

Artist Series Offers Pianist Stewart Gordon

Stewart Gordon, young American concert pianist, will perform in the Davidson College Artist Series at 8:15 p.m., Monday, December 4,
in Chambers Auditorium. The youthful artist's program will open with Mozart. This will be followed by selections from Brahms, Scriabine,
and Debussy. Concluding the concert will be Ravel's “Gaspard de la Nuit,” which has been called “one of the most
difficult and most spectacular sets of pieces in piano literature.”

Born in Kansas, Gordon is the son of a prominent writer and career army officer. He began his musical life
at the age of 10 over parental protests. Practice was irregular, and often as his father moved from post to
post, Gordon utilized the piano of a sympathetic Sunday School. The end of World War II found him a high
school senior in occupied Germany. While there he learned that the great German virtuoso, Walter Gieseking, lived in a nearby
town. He auditioned for the master, who, recognizing his talent, proceeded to encourage and instruct him.

Gordon studied with Gieseking for three years before he returned to the States to attend the University of Kansas on
a ROTC scholarship. He was graduated from there with a B.A. degree in speech. The newly-initiated member of Phi Beta
Kappa continued his studies with graduate work in musicology for which he received an M.A. degree. After three years in
the U.S. Navy during which time he wrote music, Gordon accepted his present post of chairman of the Wilmington (Ohio)
College music department. In addition to his work as a college administrator, teacher, composer, and touring concert artist, Gordon has
also recently made several recordings on the Washington label.

Davidsonians Attend Fraternity Conclave

Wyche Fowler, a Phi Delt and member of the IFC, and John Kuykendall left for Boston yesterday morning to participate
in the annual National Interfraternity Conference. The conference will be directed toward the theoretical or ideal fraternity situation rather than
a mere relating of fraternity affairs in U.S. colleges. Its purpose will be to teach rather than to inform.

The national meeting will appraise the general situation of college fraternities and discuss how fraternities can improve relations with their
own schools and with the public in general. Also, part of the conference will concern the expansion of national fraternities
and methods for the promotion of this expansion.

Earlier in the year the National IFC wrote Davidson and asked if the college would accept new fraternity chapters on
campus in the near future. Kuykendall said that if a group of students desired to establish a new chapter and
showed the need for one, the college would accept and provide for a fraternity with good national standing.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Bernard
Clark
Davidson
Embry
Frederickson
Goldiere
Holland
Hopkins
Labanov
Martin, D. G.
Ostwalt
Puckett
Wheaton
Woods
Workman

College Accepts 45 Boys Under Early Decision Plan

The Office of Admissions disclosed Tuesday that 45 boys have been accepted into the class of ’66 under the Early
Decision Plan. H. Edmunds White, Associate Director of Admissions, said that a large percentage of the 40 boys turned down
will probably be accepted in the spring under the Regular Plan.

There were 44 applicants to the Early Plan last year as compared with this year's 85. This constitutes almost a
50 percent increase in both applications and acceptances.

The Early Decision Plan has been in effect at Davidson for two years. The Administration announced its adoption Sept. 1,
1959. This year the deadline for applications was Oct. 15.

The Early Plan does not, nor will it ever attempt to take the place of the Regular Plan,” said White.
“The large majority of acceptances will always be in the spring. The Early Plan is for boys with excellent grades,
test scores, recommendations, and extracurricular records.”

There are two basic requirements for application under the Early Plan. First, the student must make a definite decision to
go to Davidson if he is accepted. Second, he must turn in his application, including College Board test scores for
the junior year, secondary school record, and recommendations, by the deadline.

Foreign Study (Continued From Page One)

meeting, and copies of all class notes and examinations. The student will also be required to submit, at different times
during the year, at least four reports evaluating the program. The committee will examine the journal and reports and decide
whether or not a student needs to take an examination in each course he studied. In any course requiring one,
the examination will be made out by a professor in the particular field and will be based on the journal.
After any required exams are taken, the committee will give its formal recommendation to the dean of students.

The committee will sponsor a foreign study bulletin board and set up a shelf on foreign study in the reserve
reading room of the library to provide students with more information. In addition, a chapel will be conducted annually on
the subject of overseas study. The first one will be given by Embry this Monday.

Appalachian State Is Site Of Debate

Davidson debaters went to Appalachian Thursday, Nov. 30, for a debate and forensic tournament. Conclave. He said that each year
some fraternities request permission to establish chapters at Davidson, but that the college has refused so far because the need
for one has not yet arisen.

The conference will include a graduate session, in which college administrators and the national secretaries of fraternities will meet, and
an undergraduate session, composed of IFC representatives from various colleges. Students in the undergraduate session will participate in discussions and
workshops on fraternity issues.

Several events were added to the regular debating schedule for this tournament. These events included John Rankin in oration,Session will
discuss fraternity; Chester Davis in extemporaneous speaking, Tom Poston in poetry reading, and Conrad Shumadine in newscasting, after-dinner speaking, and
problem solving. The meeting opened yesterday and will continue through Saturday.

On the varsity debate teams, Bob Lewellyn and Harry Daniels in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for
a... PIZZA at the famous OPEN KITCHEN, 1318 W. Morehead, Charlotte, N.C.

COPYRIGHT © 1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY. COCA-COLA AND COKE ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS.

Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke! SAY A-H-H-H! Concord, North Carolina Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord.

School records and recommendations by the fall deadline set that year. The Office of Admissions is pleased with the results
of the new plan. White said, “I am definitely in favor of it (the Early Decision Plan). It enables us
to select a strong nucleus for the incoming freshman class. From the standpoint of the student, it enables him to
get the matter of college choice settled early in his senior year of high school.”

Band Gives Recital: Robinson Featured

The Davidson College Concert Band under the baton of Dr. Grier M. Williams will be heard in its first formal
concert of the season at 8:15 p.m., Tuesday, December 5, in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. Joseph
L. Robinson, oboist and a member of the Class of 1962, will be the featured soloist in Handel’s “Concerto in
B-flat Major.” Robinson is a member of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, the Charlotte Symphonette, and has played with the Transylvania
Symphony and Brevard Music Festival Orchestra. The band will play “La Boutique Fantasque” (The Fantastic Toy Shop) by Rossini-Respighi, Catel’s
“Overture in C,” and “Allerseelen” by Richard Strauss. Included will be “Ballet for Young Americans” by Ralph Hermann, contemporary TV
composer and arranger.

An alumnus of the Davidson band, Dr. Williams graduated from Davidson College in 1953. He studied for his master of
music degree at the University of Michigan, and in the summer of 1961, he received his doctorate in music education
from Florida State University. Before joining the Davidson faculty in September 1961, Professor Williams taught at Eastern Michigan College and
Southeastern Louisiana College.

Pranksters Strike Again: Freshman Banner Waves

BY GREG GOVAN, Davidsonian Feature Writer

The outhouse that had graced the front of Chambers was scarcely a memory when campus pranksters struck again. But this
time they left an ID card, of sorts. Nobody knows just what the architects had in mind when they put
that pole on top of the cupola of Belk dormitory, but three freshmen decided to put an end to the
speculation. Accordingly, a cold, barely-begun Monday two weeks ago found these stalwarts, no doubt inspired by Vespers, converting a useless
ornament into a very utilitarian flagpole.

FLAG DEFIANT RED

The flag was bright red with two-foot black corduroy letters that defiantly said '65, on both sides yet. And it
was on Belk Dormitory, center of upper-class agitation. And no one could figure how it got there. Or how to
get it down. Even when the story leaked out how the flag was wired securely to the pole, there were
a few people who still believed that it just couldn’t be done. Astonishing as it seems, the jolly midnight crew
from the fourth floor of Cannon had climbed out a bathroom window on the top floor of Belk, then scaled
a roof with a slope that would make a mountain goat think twice. Once on the ridge, the daring pair
clambered down the other side where they dropped a rope to their accomplice and used it to haul up a
ladder and the flag. With the ladder, they gained the narrow balcony of the cupola, and then the most intrepid
of the lot went up the ladder again as it was perched precariously on the ledge, and tied the flag
to the pole.

CHARLOTTE NEWS LAUDS

Sound easy? No one was willing to try the method, or any other, again, and the flag fluttered merrily Monday
and Tuesday. The Charlotte News snapped it and declared that the “always lively Davidson campus” had seen the “stunt of
the year.” Freshman spirits soared. But by Tuesday afternoon, the banner was doomed. Upperclassmen could no longer stand the haughty
looks and News editorials. A decisive counter-attack was launched.

SOPHOMORES IRKED

Less than forty-eight hours after its folds first caught the brisk wind, the pride and glory of '65, the flag
that was supposed to fly “a long, long time,” was down. Using the techniques they had perfected while placing a
red parachute on the dome of Chambers last year, three sophomores assaulted the cupola alpine fashion, captured the booty, and
descended to divide the spoils, literally. So as holidays came to Davidson, all that remained of the freshman class’ short-lived
triumph was the tin can and stick they had used to affix their colors. But if Belk was once again
an untainted symbol of the upper class, the fledgling wildcats could at least take heart that their side had been
neater.

Blood Drive

The annual blood drive sponsored by the IFC will take place Dec. 10-11, from 13 a.m. to 5 p.m. A
free drill cut and a free PT cut will be given on Tuesday to those donating blood.

Campus favorite in all 50 states! It’s a top seller at colleges from U.S.C. to Yale and 1st in the
Flip-Top box in every single state. If you think you're seeing more Marlboro men lately, you're right. More than 25,000
smokers all over the country are switching to Marlboro every month! You'll know why when you try them. Marlboro is
the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste. The secret of the flavor is the famous Marlboro recipe from Richmond, Virginia,
and the pure white Selectrate filter that goes with it. Try Marlboro and judge for yourself. On or off campus,
you get a lot to like. Flip-Top box or King-size pack.
