Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

PAGE FOUR . THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1961

Vagabonds, Masquers Plan Tentative Merger

By BILL RUTH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The faculty committee on drama and debate has announced the probable merger of The Red and Black Masquers, traditional campus drama group, and the recently organized Vagabonds. The plans for the merger, although only tentative at this time, will be directed by Fred Viti of the Charlotte Little Theatre.

In past years the Masquers produced three plays each year. Construction is out in front of schedule, according to G. C. Meetze, who is supervising the work. The photos show how the work is proceeding in front, on top, and inside the building. The building is scheduled to be ready for next September. It will include a 288-seat auditorium, for which the sub-contracts have been let. There have been no major changes in plans since construction began. Cold weather has held up work slightly, but the contractor is still ahead of schedule. (Davidsonian Photos by Wells.)

Shelton Is Union President, In Early Staff Elections

Jerry Shelton was elected president of the Union this week, succeeding Charlie Ringe, who has been made chairman of the Board of Advisors for the Union. This board, which has just been created, is to be composed of seniors who have served as officers of the Union. The time of election was changed from late May to the beginning of the second semester to enable the new president to have the advice of the old officers. Shelton stated that he plans an almost complete reorganization of the Union staff. In the meantime, he plans to appoint the members of the various Union committees. Students and faculty are encouraged to offer suggestions as to projects for the Union. The other officers (vice-president and secretary-treasurer) will be elected later this month.

History 41 Class Gets Book Refund

Because of a billing error by the publisher, the members of Dr. Paul A. Marrotte’s History 41 class got a refund on the price of their textbooks last month. The $2.50 refund was made by Professor J. T. Kimbrough, manager of the college bookstore. The text, Europe Since Napoleon, is published by Knopf.

---Publishing Co. The original invoice sent by the company to the bookstore listed the price of the book at $10, rather than $7.50. While Dr. Marrotte was in New York during the Christmas holidays at the annual convention of the American Historical Association, he discovered that the book price should have been only $7.50. The publisher, acknowledging his mistake in a note to Kimbrough, returned the excess money to the bookstore. Prof. Kimbrough said that this was the first time that a publisher had overcharged for a book since he has been managing the bookstore.

But recently they have become less active. Since membership in the Masquers was limited to those who have acted in three plays, the acquisition of new members has been a major difficulty. The Vagabonds were organized this year and membership was offered to all who expressed an interest in drama. Since one of the real problems is finding actresses for roles, it was decided to make the new group one that could include faculty members and their wives and townspeople.

In October, after the Vagabonds had presented three plays, President Martin expressed a wish that they continue and suggested that they merge with the Masquers into one formal organization. This suggestion was approved by both groups. Control of the new organization will be unified in an executive committee composed of President Martin or his appointee, a director, five students, and two faculty members or townspeople. An effort will be made to keep the governing board as representative a group as possible. No more than 10 percent of the governing body will come from any one social organization.

The Masquers will give one final performance in April. They will present “The Glass Menagerie” by Tennessee Williams.

Vagabonds Stage Wilder's Comedy

The Vagabonds will present Thornton Wilder's four-act farce, “The Matchmaker” next Thursday and Friday nights. The performances will be given in the auditorium of the Chambers building and will begin at 8:15 Thursday night and 7 Friday. The play was described by director Hansford Epes as a “dance weekend play, nothing philosophical.” Epes also reported that the Friday night performance was chiefly for students and their dates.

Mrs. Frontis Johnston will play the matchmaker, who is a “varicose-veined reducer, guitar instructor, etc., whose main job is chasing Dr. Sam Maloney as well as matching up lots of other people.” The play also features Mrs. Paul Marrotte, Mrs. Ian French, Mrs. B. D. Thompson, Mimi Martin, and Mrs. Marjory Murphy. Students playing in the production include Neal Bushoven, Woody Danenhower, Dosa Stowell, Pat Douglas, Walter Bost, Luther Williams, and Frank Gohlke.

Tickets will be on sale at the Union Desk and at the door for $0.75. Subscribers will be admitted free, but non-subscribers and dates must have tickets.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI