FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Dennis Phillips Splashes Way To Cake Race Win

The annual Freshman Cake Race was run last Monday, with Dennis Phillips the winner. Cakes, which had been baked by
the wives of the faculty and administration, were presented to the first 52 freshmen to cross the finish line. Despite
a slight drizzle, Phillips ran the 1.7-mile course in what Coach Heath Whittle described as “a real good time”—9:54.5. Phillips
was followed by Chester Davis and Leonard Heffner in second and third places, respectively. These men are at present members
of the frosh cross-country team.

LOCALS SEEK REVENGE AT GREENVILLE

’Cats Hit Furman In First Loop

“Best Club In Conference”--- Dole Rates Purple Paladins

BY JERRY TRAMMELL
Davidson Sports Writer

Tomorrow the Davidson Wildcats meet their first conference foe when they clash head-on with the Furman Paladins at Greenville, S.
C., at 2 p.m. In an interview, Wildcat Coach Bill Dole expressed great admiration for the Paladins. “They have speed
and size, and having lost very few players from last year's team, they also have much valuable experience. I believe
that they have the best club in the conference.”

PALADIN PUNCH

Dole is concerned over the 1960 All-Conference choice, 5'10", 200-pound Paladin fullback, Tom Campbell, who adds punch to the Furman
offense. Dole has adjusted his defense as much as possible to halt the drive of this excellent runner and keeping
the Davidson pass defense alert will be the Paladin’s quarterback, Billy Canty, who is rated an excellent passer. Dole stated
that Canty will run a lot of traps and throw some passes, and that his men will have to be
ready for anything.

BANKHEAD INJURED

As for Davidson, there will be no major changes in personnel, except for Bill Bankhead, who badly sprained his ankle
in the Catawba game, and who may be unable to action against the Paladins. Sophomore Benny Coxton will lead the
Wildcat offense with Booker Clark Sheffield and Lew Zirkle alternating at the split-end. Alex Gibbs and Joe Jones will probably
work the halfback positions with Bob McAllister at fullback. Possibilities for the line include Mike Owen and Bill Dole at
tackles; Russell Walls and Dave Lovette at guards, and Bruce Usher at center.

CARL HUNT, junior letterman, is set to hound Furman backs from his linebacker slot in tomorrow’s game. Hunt and Eddie
Crutchfield will be co-captains for the game.

Cole's Passing Impressed Fans, Press, And Furman

BY JOHNNY SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

DEFENSE

The Intramural Flickerball Begins Wednesday; I-F Track Meet Moved

Last week’s results: Davidson 21, Catawba 15; Memphis State 40, Citadel 0; Furman 27, PC 6; Fla. St. 15, George
Wash. 7; Richmond 35, West Va. 26; VMI 33, Marshall 6; and Virginia Tech 20, William & Mary 6.

Whittle said he is looking among the other top finishers for possible members of his cross-country team. Rounding out the
top ten finishers were the following: fourth, Ronnie Reese; fifth, John Barrow; sixth, Barry Teague; seventh, George Washington; eighth, Clark
Morrell; ninth, Charlie Marcon; and tenth, Louis Norman.

DENNIS PHILLIPS is first to hit the tape in the Cake Race as COACH WHITTLE clicks stop watch. (Davidson Staff
Photo by Bill Wyche.)

Sideline Comments

BY STEVE CLARK

DAVIDSON’S BIG NAME COACH

DAVIDSON’S NEWEST addition to the coaching department is quite a guy if past records mean anything. We're talking about Mr.
Harry Fogelman, who succeeds Dr. Paul Marrotte as head soccer coach this fall and Semi Mintz as head tennis mentor.
Fogelman comes to our little Utopia, where head coaches are not chased off with a shotgun or hung in effigy
by victory-thirsty students, from the University of Cincinnati, of Oscar Robertson fame. It seems that this rotund gentleman, who looks
like anything but a tennis coach, compiled quite a record at Cincy. Last spring he brought his highly-touted Bearcats to
Davidson for a match in which we were thoroughly out-matched. Evidently, though, Mr. Fogelman liked our Carolina climate and scenery
so much that he wanted to return. Naturally, we jumped at the chance to get a big name coach here.

FOGELMAN

Dr. Tom Scott says of Fogelman: “He has probably turned out more of the top young tennis players in the
country today than any other college coach.” It’s rumored that the newcomer likes his new surroundings so well that he
wants to stay for quite some time. If that be the case, Davidson should be Southern Conference tennis kingpin for
quite some time. Five of the top high school netters in the country are supposedly headed our way next year.
That’s right—we don’t give tennis scholarships. Says one current Wildcat netter: “Top young tennis prospects all over the country have
heard of Mr. Fogelman, and they will be jumping at the chance to play under him.” Welcome, Harry Fogelman, welcome!

‘CATS WILL BE COLOR BLIND

DAVIDSON FOOTBALL PLAYERS will be seeing red instead of purple when they look at Furman’s uniforms tomorrow. And just like
the famous bull, the Wildcats will be charging at that red with everything they have. If a Davidson team has
ever been “up” for a game, it has to be this one. Coach Dole has so much propaganda with which
to fire his men up, even we start burning just thinking about it. To begin with, anyone who saw the
Furman fiasco here last year should still be hopping mad. Davidson out-rushed, out-passed, out-hustled, out-scrapped, out-everything but out-score the Paladins.
An intercepted pass and a 78-yard pass play in the last five minutes of play pulled the visitors from sure
defeat to victory. In addition, Furman is regarded as the best offensive team in the conference with us tops defensively.
These two opposite forces should provide an interesting day. Finally, the Paladins have been tabbed by most regional sportswriters as
the team to beat this year. Dole’s men believe they’re the team that can beat the team to beat.

MORE CRYSTAL GAZING

OUR CRYSTAL BALL had only two bum steers in it last weekand five right ones, so we pulled it out
and tubbed it again. Wildcats settle down on defense after a first and Messrs. Coxton and Cole throw a S.Sne
through a Furman team, as the ‘Cats’ 1-14. S sian 28-7; and E In the Davidson game we saw a
spirited ning ee and chalked up a second. Elsewhere around the circuit we saw George Wash- | Council (IMAC) held
its first | meeting this past Wednesday | a 2 se toa. “Heads With Varsit os announced, The Council, made
up of one | representative from each fra- | ternity and the independents, | welcomed back Coach Heath Whittle, adviser,
whose south- ern tour last semester briefly interrupted his work with the Council. While on leave, Whittle was capably relieved
by Mr. Joe Hunt. Flickerball was the main item on the IMAC’s agenda, and the schedule pairings were drawn. Also,
the opening day for games was set for this coming Wednes- day at 4 p.m. Games will be played this
year on every Monday, Wednes- day, Thursday, and Friday, un- less weather does not permit. In addition, the Friday of
Home- coming will not be scheduled. The intramural track meet has been moved from the spring to the fall this
year. This was done because rain so often postpones the meet in the spring, and also Coach Whittle will have
a bet- ter chance to find some good in- door track material. Varsity track lettermen will not be eli- gible
for the meet. The meet has been set for Monday and Wednesday, Octo- ber 9 and 11, for this year.
The trials will be run on Monday with the finals on Wednesday. Other business included the election of a new
secretary to re- place John Boylin, who had to resign from the Council due to a higher office in the
Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. Tony McNay of the SAE’s was unanimously elected. The flickerball schedule for the coming week is
as follows: Wednesday—SAE’s vs. KA's, Phi Gams vs. Sigma Chis, Kap- pa Sigs vs. Pi Kapps, and Sigma Nus vs.
Phi Delts. Thursday—Independents vs. Betas, ATO’s vs. Sig Eps, Pikas vs. Sigma Chis, and SAE’s vs. Pi Kapps. Friday—Phi Gams
vs. Phi Delts, Kappa Sigs vs. Betas, Sigma Nus vs. Sig Eps, and In- dependents vs. ATO’s. The five men
who have earn- ed letters on the courts are BY MIKE HOLMES Davidson Sports Writer On defense it will be
Bill Whittington and Jennings Snid- er at the end positions; Bill Sal- zer and Ed Crutchfield at tackles, Dick Voorhees
and pos- sibly Bankhead at guards, Carl Hunt and Joe Ansley at line- backers, Morton, Bob Cordle, and Kent Tucker
in the backfield. While the ‘Cats were beating Catawba last Saturday, Furman (Davidson's Homecoming foe), was trouncing Presbyterian. The Paladins
won last year's game in a heart-stopper at Davidson, 27-26. Pat Fisher at one halfback, and Tommy Worrell at the
other halfback. The Paladins convincingly proved their ability that Monday afternoon's Char- lotte News headlined its opin- ion: “Cole Didn’t
Look Second- String.” And the headline is under- standable. Alternating with Coxton, Cole operated equally as well with the clutch
in-or out. In the fourth quarter, taking over for Coxton who was side- lined with a minor injury, the Sandy-haired
sophomore from Wilmington, N. C., took the pig- skin on a reverse roll-out and lofted it to Booker Clark for
a 39-yard touchdown pass play that cracked a 7-7 deadlock. However, Cole had earned his spurs as far as the
spectators were concerned. In fact, Cole so convincingly proved his ability that Monday afternoon's Char- lotte News headlined its opin-
ion: “Cole Didn’t Look Second- String.” And the headline is under- standable. Alternating with Coxton, Cole operated equally as well
with the clutch in-or out. In the fourth quarter, taking over for Coxton who was side- lined with a minor
injury, the Sandy-haired sophomore from Wilmington, N. C., took the pig- skin on a reverse roll-out and lofted it to
Booker Clark for a 39-yard touchdown pass play that cracked a 7-7 deadlock. However, Cole had earned his spurs as
far as the spectators were concerned. In fact, Cole so impressed tomorrow's foe, Coach Bob King of Furman, that the
Pala- din mentor has since tabbed him “equally as dangerous a passer as Coxton.” Tomorrow the program will again list
Cole as the second- unit quarterback. But after last Saturday night few fans will re- gard him as an understudy,
and in the future the odds seem mighty good that the word quarterback will be pluralized in scouting reports on
the ’Cats. Steve Heckard, stellar right end, comments, “We seem to be strong at all positions and we're ready physically
and mentally. We know Chowan Junior Col- lege, our first opponent, is big and fast. But with the support of
the student body we plan to start our season off with a win. “Having seen nothing of our opponents, I
can’t really say much about the coming season; but if our spirit is a sign of things to come, we
ought to do very well this year. Our boys love to rack with the varsity and are constantly striving to
improve themselves,” optimistically declared Captain Donald Threlkeld, head coach for the freshman football team. Captain Threlkeld, leading the Davidson frosh
football squad for the second year, and his able assistants, Captain Rob- ert Pierce and Sonny Fra- ley, report a
bumper crop of thirty-one players out for the team. Running a tight T-formation, basically the same attack as the previous
season, the Wildkittens hope to improve on the 1-3 rec- ord posted by the 1961 Fresh- man team. Hitting the
field at 3:30 every afternoon, Captain Threlkeld’s “boys” butt heads until about 5:30. Practice is occasionally spiced up with a
match of strength with the varsity. “Some of my boys have look- ed especially good when we scrimmage the varsity,”
says Captain Threlkeld. “Steve Davidson, at right tackle, along with Bruce Dalton and Bill Wil- son at guards have been
out- standing. Dave Hendricks at fullback, Steve Heckard, stellar right end, comments, “We seem to be strong at all positions
and we're ready physically and mentally. We know Chowan Junior Col- lege, our first opponent, is big and fast. But
with the support of the student body we plan to start our season off with a win. Following the opener
with Chowan here on Thursday, Sep- tember 28, the remainder of the five game schedule has David- son playing the
Citadel in Charleston on October 12, Fur- man in Greenville on October 20, Ferrum Junior College in Davidson on November
4, and on November 9, Gardner-Webb played in Davidson. MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON
BLVD. We Give Gold Stamps Oil Change 75c SPECIAL — CAR WASH $1.50 BRAKES RELINED ON Ford, Chevrolet, Plymouth —
$14.95 Phone T R 5-9997 Road Service Highway 21 on the way to Charlotte CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA
and SPAGHETTI ESSO SERVICE STATION Pick-up and Delivery Service on Saturdays F.S. Grease Job with Oil Change 75c SPECIAL —
CAR WASH $1.50 BRAKES RELINED ON Ford, Chevrolet, Plymouth — $14.95 Phone T R 5-9997 Road Service Highway 21 on
the way to Charlotte CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI ADLER SC's are guaranteed not to shrink back.
Lamb's wool, in men's and women's sizes, in white and 12 other colors. Just $1 at fine stores, ADLER SC's
WONT SHRINK - EVEN IF YOU DO ADLER SC’s AVAILABLE IN WHITE AND COLORS AT Bush Wilson Ltd.
