EPES DISCUSSES HONORS PROGRAM (See Page Two)

VOL. XLIX

BOB WAUGH WAS elected president of the IFC at its Monday night meeting. Jerry Cole, outgoing president, congratulates Waugh as the council looks on. Waugh is a member of Beta Theta Pi. (Davidsonian Photo By Abernethy)

Waugh Maps IFC Plans; Favors A Formal Dance

New IFC Gives Nod To Waugh

The new Interfraternity Council met Monday night and elected officers for next year. Bob Waugh was elected president; Wyche Fowler, secretary; and Clay Atkins, treasurer.

Waugh, a pre-med from Bethesda, Md., is vice-president of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-med fraternity and a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon and Delta Phi Alpha. He is the Beta Theta Pi representative on the IFC. Fowler, the Phi Delta Theta representative, is from Atlanta. Atkins, representing Sigma Alpha Epsilon, is from Cincinnati.

The other fraternities are represented by the following men: Alpha Tau Omega, Frank Stafford; Kappa Alpha, Walter Neal; Phi Kappa Phi, Bill Clingman; Sigma Chi, Bob Moore; Sigma Nu, Art Toole; and Sigma Phi Epsilon, Gordon Mitchell.

Commenting on the IFC, Waugh said, “I feel that this year's council under the leadership of Jerry Cole has done an excellent job. I hope that next year we may work closely with the newly formed fraternity presidents’ group and present the student body with some fine social events.”

The new council now assumes supervision of all fraternity activities. Work will begin soon on next fall’s rush week.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1961

LACY: "KEEP YOUR EYES OPEN”

VPI Men Report Thefts; More Stealing In Dorms

By MAC PLAXICO
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Union Sets Campus Song Fest

Friday, May 12, at 7:00, the Student Union will sponsor the annual all-campus Sing on the steps of the Union. This year’s event will be a marked departure from those of the past, since three permanent trophies will be awarded, one for the best conductor and one each for first and second places.

J. B. Doss, supervisor of the “sing” has also emphasized that any group, with the exception of one of the college choirs, is eligible to compete. Each group, however, must contain a minimum of twenty-five men. Ten minutes will be allotted each entry, in which they will present two numbers, only one of which may be a fraternity song.

Bob Waugh, newly elected president of the Interfraternity Council, cited three plans he has for next year’s IFC, in a DAVIDSONIAN interview after his election Monday. They are bringing back the formal dance for dance weekends, new areas for pledge class activities, and the utilization of the IFC for publicity for other campus activities (such as the Artist Series and the Vagabonds).

FORMAL DANCE

Waugh said he favored one formal dance at Homecoming, with Spring Frolics remaining the same as this year. Midwinters would be less formal than Homecoming.

Waugh stated that he would like to see pledge competition outside Greek Week in such areas as sports or debate. He further stated that he would like to see the pledge classes participate in joint service projects, such as some type of civic projects. He explained that these two proposals would have to be worked out with the pledge class trainers.

When asked about his view of the IFC’s role on campus, Waugh stated that he and the IFC were open for suggestions as to new areas of activities, but that he preferred not to hold open meetings of the IFC.

IFC IS NOT AUTOCRATIC

“The IFC is not an autocratic body,” Waugh said. “Every fraternity member is technically a member of the IFC.” Waugh believes that the IFC should maintain a position between acting completely independent of the fraternities and of consulting them before doing anything.

Waugh called John Kuykendall “a very effective liaison officer,” referring to his work with fraternities during the year, especially during Greek Week. Waugh termed Kuykendall “an ideal man for the job.”

Judging will be based on selection of numbers, quality and richness of tone, interpretation, and effectiveness of presentation. Judges have not yet been announced, but are expected to come from Charlotte for the event. Any group wishing to enter must submit the name of their conductor and their selections to the Union Desk by Monday, May 1.

Regarding the new fraternity liaison officer for next year, Waugh favors “a young man in the swing of things.” He expressed hope that the IFC will be able to meet with the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life during the coming year.

CONCERT SERIES

The concert series, which the IFC began sponsoring this year, will be voted on in two weeks to see if it is to be continued. If it is continued, Waugh said that he expects it will feature popular artists, perhaps an orchestra or a well-known comedian like Shelley Berman. Waugh stated that the IFC would try to arrange these concerts so that they would coincide with an attraction at the Charlotte Coliseum.

RUSH WEEK

Rush Week will be essentially the same this fall, with the same hours for parties, Waugh announced. A committee will be appointed next week to draw up the regulations for next year's Rush Week. Waugh also announced that Greek Week will probably be the first week of second semester as it was this year.

Congolese Student Will Visit Campus

Jean Calvin Mayimbu, a Congolese student presently studying at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., will be on campus Monday to speak in student assembly and confer with faculty and students. Mayimbu will be coming by invitation of the Congolese Committee. The same group had Mrs. David Miller and Dr. Hoyt Miller, who have both served as missionaries to the Congo, on campus last Monday.

A special coffee hour will be held for Mayimbu following his talk in assembly. At all times during his stay on campus, he will be accompanied by a student or faculty member who speaks fluent French. Mayimbu, like most Congolese, has a stronger background in this language than in English.

The Congolese Committee will have a special luncheon and dinner for Mayimbu in the College Union Monday. A limited number of the committee members will attend.

McShane To Speak For Phi Beta Kappa

Dr. Edward J. McShane, professor of mathematics at the University of Virginia, will be the guest speaker for the Phi Beta Kappa public address at Davidson College on Friday, May 5th, at 8:15 p.m. The program for the evening includes formal initiation of new members Hutton Barron, Roger Beebe, Jim Bootle, Bill Martin, Henry MacFadyen, Robert L. Moore, and Tom Parker. Afterwards dinner will be served in the College Union and will be limited to Phi Beta Kappa members.

Dr. McShane’s lecture, which will be open to the student body, will be delivered in Eumenean Literary Society Hall. If rain makes walking to the lecture difficult, the address will be delivered in the Morrison Room of the College Union.

Dr. McShane received his BE, BS, and MS degrees from Tulane University and his PhD degree from the University of Chicago. He has previously taught at the University of Wichita and Princeton while remaining active in mathematical research. He has served as president of both the Mathematical Association of America from 1953 to 1954 and the American Mathematical Society from 1959 to 1960. In 1953, Dr. McShane was awarded the Chauvenet Prize for his expository paper entitled “Partial Orderings and Moore-Smith Limits.” He was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship for study of the structure and spectral theory of partially ordered algebras in 1968.

Sigma Nu’s Take IFC Blood Trophy

The year’s second blood drive was held last Monday and Tuesday in Richardson Gymnasium. The drive ended Tuesday at 5 p.m. with the Sigma Nu’s winning the trophy which is presented by the Interfraternity Council to the fraternity having the highest percentage of donors. Over 310 pints of blood were given in all.

The drive was sponsored by the ROTC Department and the IFC with Jerry Cole, IFC president, acting as director. Free drill cuts were given to all ROTC students donating blood. ROTC students helping in either the reception room, donor room or canteen were awarded four merits for each hour’s work.

The percentage of donors (by fraternities) is as follows: Sigma Nu, 89 percent; ATO, 86 percent; Beta, 82 percent; Pika, 55 percent; KA, 54 percent; Sigma Chi, 52 percent; Phi Gam, 47 percent; Kappa Sig, 42 percent; Pi Kap, 41 percent; SAE, 40 percent; Sig Ep, 38 percent; and Phi Delt, 36 percent.

Assisting with the drive were Mr. Tom Johnson of the College maintenance department and ladies from the community who were under the direction of Mrs. W. B. Mayhew.the two meals.

IN VEREEN BELL CONTEST
Hastings Takes Top Place

“Reflections,” a poem by Richard Hastings, took top honors in the annual Vereen Bell writing contest. Judged second and third were “Closing of a House” by Ben Sparks and “Pieces From a Fragmentary Youth” by Pete Wyrick. John Crowe Ransom, well-known poet, critic, and teacher of creative writing, awarded the $75 prize to Hastings in chapel last Thursday. The work of Hastings, who is presently a freshman, was termed “remarkable” by Ransom. “He’s the most advanced freshman that I have ever encountered,” he continued. The poetry of Sparks and Wyrick was also praised highly. Ransom studied ten manuscripts for two days before making his final selection of the winner and runner-ups.

“I noticed a great preoccupation with sex in the poetry submitted,” stated Ransom. “That disturbed me a little, it’s a very powerful spiritual experience as well as an animal one, but some of the poetry represented it as an animal experience only.” However, Ransom commented that all of the contributing authors displayed a great deal of talent.

Before announcing the contest winners on Thursday, Ransom gave an address entitled “The Estate of Poetry,” and later met with Sigma Upsilon, honorary creative writing fraternity. On Thursday evening he read and discussed some of his own poetry in the Morrison Room of the College Union.

Ransom's achievements made him uniquely qualified to judge the creative writing contest. During his undergraduate studies at Vanderbilt University, Ransom was editor and cofounder of The Fugitive and later, The Kenyon Review. After graduating from Vanderbilt and being elected to Phi Beta Kappa, Ransom attended Christ College, Oxford, as a Rhodes Scholar. In 1914 he returned to Vanderbilt as professor of English where he served until 1937, except for a two-year period during which he taught at the Saumur Artillery School in France with the Army.

WELLFORD
Wellford Assumes Honor Court Lead

Rising Senior Harrison Wellford from Charlotte has been elected to succeed Scott Lacy as chairman of the Honor Court. He has served on the court since its organization two years ago and held the position of recorder this year. That post has been filled by the election of John Rogers, a rising junior. Wellford was instrumental in the writing of the court’s recent statement on pledged work presented to the faculty.

“The Honor Court will endeavor next year to clarify the problems that challenge the system and create an atmosphere of student awareness in which these problems can be solved,” he said. “This will be done through intensified orientation participation in educating freshmen on the honor system, assembly programs, and proposals, such as the court's recent memorandum for the faculty on pledged work.”

Wellford holds the Robert E. Phifer Honor Scholarship and is taking part in the history honors program. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, the soccer team, and is the student chairman of the Committee on the Congolese Students. He served as president of the Freshman Council two years ago.

TRACKMEN HOST DAVIDSON RELAYS (See Page Three).

NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE
Money, Wallets, Ring Disappear From Gym
BY LEONARD RICHARDSON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Four wallets containing a total of $41 and a high school ring belonging to members of the VPI track team were stolen from the visiting team’s locker room in the college gymnasium here Tuesday afternoon. The thefts were reported to members of the Honor Court shortly after the track meet. An estimated $30 was also reported stolen from dormitory rooms during the past five days, THE DAVIDSONIAN was informed today.

Honor Court members who investigated the thefts said that all but four of the VPI track men checked their wallets and valuables in the basket room, and that those four found their clothes disarranged and money missing after the meet. They were John Doulton, Bob Duggan, Dave Buskell, and Bob Mazaitis. The dressing room was not locked.

Harrison Wellford, chairman of the Honor Court, said concerning the gym theft, “There is good reason to believe that this was not done by a member of the Davidson student body.” He declined to make any further comment. Wellford stated that in the future visiting teams will be urged to check their valuables in the basket room and to lock the door of their locker room. This week the Student Council and Honor Court both planned to send letters of apology for the incident to the VPI team.

Dean of Students John C. Bailey discussed the thefts with Henry Shue, Scott Lacy, and Wellford Wednesday. After the conference, Shue expressed his hope that some arrangement could be made to replace the stolen $41 by voluntary contributions from members of the student body.

Retiring Honor Court Chairman Lacy and Wellford his successor, both agree that stealing has become a serious problem on campus. Lacy said that he has noticed an increase in the number of thefts reported to the Honor Court since Midwinters last year. “I hope people will be more aware of it and keep their eyes open,” he added. Although thefts reported to the Honor Court since September total more than $350, no student has been convicted by the court and expelled for stealing this year. In the last two weeks, stealing has been fairly light. Wellford said Spring Frolics marked “the first time we've ever gone through a dance weekend without having reports of money (Continued On Page Four).

Davidson Debaters Take On UNC Team

The novice debate team of UNC will meet the Davidson debaters here tomorrow afternoon at 4:30 for a practice round. Head Coach Dr. Joseph T. Drake noted that this was an out-of-season match since the Davidson squad completed competition with the FSU tournament last February. UNC debate coach Springer had requested a practice session here for his freshman team. Dr. Drake said that he hoped this would lead to an in-season exchange of debate rounds with Carolina next year. In addition to these “dual meets” Drake was optimistic about a revised procedure for next year which will allow Davidson to be represented at more tournaments. Anyone interested in forensics and debate is invited to attend the practice rounds to be held in Chambers Building third floor classrooms, 4:30 to 6 tomorrow afternoon.

Student's Bid For Mayor Doubles Vote Registration
BY BILL RUTH
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Davidson Junior Jerry Abernathy’s unprecedented bid for the town’s top spot has provoked a new high in voter registration. This, he says, was his purpose. “I have been told that I could have gotten a seat on the Town Council without any trouble, but I think I've stimulated a lot more interest by running for mayor.”

ELECTION TUESDAY

On April 15, Abernathy, a long-time resident of Davidson, filed to run against incumbent mayor Dr. F. L. Jackson in next Tuesday’s election. Dr. Jackson has been mayor of Davidson for the past 10 years. “For as long as I can remember there has been no civic interest in elections around here,” said Abernathy. “I don’t see anything wrong with the present mayor, he's done a lot of good. In fact, he’s responsible for the new municipal building and town hall. But I think there should be more interest on the part of the townspeople.”

CIVIC IMPROVEMENTS

Although Abernathy’s primary motive was to raise public interest, he has not failed to consider the fact that he may be elected. He has already proposed a plan for civic improvements which would include painting all the store-fronts in town the same color. He has suggested that next year’s pledges could work on that project. “Some people tell me that I haven't got a prayer, while others say they like what I’m doing and will vote for me,” he continued.

Voting registration has more than doubled for this election. Abernathy thinks that this is an indication of support and anticipates a large turnout for the election. “If he has accomplished that and still does not get elected he has accomplished his purpose,” said one town resident. Abernathy feels that his voting strength lies in the industrial workers and the Negroes because they have the most at stake individually. They have focused their attention on the election with hope that new industry will be encouraged by a new mayor.

STUDENTS ONCE ELIGIBLE

Students were once eligible to vote in the town elections, but they got a night watchman to file for mayor and nearly elected him. Since that time students have been excluded from voting by law. Abernathy has lived in Davidson all his life and is presently a political science major. He is a photographer for the Davidson alumni office and an officer of the photography club.