SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1961

THE DA

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

THINGS ARE LOOKING UP

Tonight's opener with Catawba gets another athletic year underway at Davidson College, and from all indications, it’s going to be
an exciting one. We thought that an overall preview of things to look for this year might be appropriate, and
we might as well inform you from the beginning, things are looking up.

The football team, to put it mildly, is loaded. Dole has more experience, more depth, more speed, more everything on
hand than he’s had in years. Chances for a winning season are excellent, and a Homecoming victory is practically a
sure thing.

The basketball team may still be a year or two away, but you can bet your bottom dollar that Lefty
and Company will be a top contender when the conference tournament rolls around. The freshman basketballers (and who hasn’t seen
them walking around campus ducking under doorways, etc.) may have All-Staters sitting on the bench and should go undefeated despite
a schedule that includes Duke, Carolina, and Wake Forest.

The baseball team will be the best in ages since all but one starter returns from a team that won
six conference games and five of the last six games a year ago. With only three starters returning, the soccer
team may not better last year’s 8-3 mark, but should hold its own against a tough schedule. The track team
has Coach Whittle back and that in itself means a successful season.

As usual, Davidson should shine in the minor sports such as swimming, wrestling, cross country, golf, and tennis. One of
these to especially watch is tennis. New coach Harry Fogleman is renowned for the excellent tennis players he has turned
out.

With the prospects for a good year sportswise so prominent, we hope that school support and spirit will be evident
at all contests. A good academic program is a necessity to a school, and everyone connected with Davidson can be
proud of her academic endeavors. We also feel that a good athletic program is essential in the Davidson ideal and
something of which to be proud.

WE'RE IN STYLE

The old saying, “Clothes make the man,” must have caught on down in the athletic office. Several Davidson teams will
be sporting new “clothes” this year.

The football team donned its new headgear tonight against Catawba. The new helmets are more or less a combination suspension
and non-suspension helmet. They are designed to absorb the blow and yet cut out much of the head-rattling after effects
of the suspension types.

The basketball team will be in new uniforms in the Wake Forest opener, December 2. The cagers have both new
home and road uniforms, and we're glad to announce that fans will know what team is playing. Davidson is in
block letters across the front of the jerseys. The road uniforms will be a different color scheme this year. Instead
of red, the uniforms are black with red letters and numbers, bordered in white.

A FEW PREDICTIONS

The Southern Conference likes to get a head start. It is the only major conference that goes into full action
today as every conference member opens its schedule. We gazed into our crystal ball and saw our brothers faring as
follows: Memphis State over The Citadel, Furman over PC, George Washington over Florida State, Richmond over West Virginia in the
opening loop battle, VMI over Marshall, and William & Mary over VPI in a night loop contest at Roanoke.

Frosh Gridders Prep For Opener

This year’s freshman football team began taking shape last week in preparation for the frosh opener here on September 28
against Chowan Junior College. Captain Donald Threlkeld, quarterback from Lenoir; Steve ROTC instructor who is also serving in the capacity
of freshman coach, greeted more than 30 boys at the early workouts.

Tuesday afternoon the frosh scrimmaged some with the varsity. The frosh, who recorded their finest record (8-3) last year, will
have problems filling graduation gaps left by such stalwarts as All-American goalie Claude Finney, All-Southern fullback Dick Dalton, and All-Southern
forward Mike Laughlin. Despite these losses, Captain Joe Kelly reports, “We've got a lot of enthusiasm. Team spirit is better
than ever.”

The Wildcats have a fair share of experience and talent on hand also. Dave Dakin, Frank Tulloch, and Kelly are
the returning starters, and Tom Green, Greg Winkler, George Kuyndahl, and Charles Sasser lettered a year ago. New Coach Harry
Fogleman, who comes to Davidson from the University of Cincinnati and who will also serve as tennis coach, has seen
his men only in a few basic drills and workouts. However, he likes what he's seen. “We're going to try
to keep up the tradition of producing another good season.”

Four Records Set In Ability Test

Four records were broken in the annual physical ability test for freshmen this year, Dr. Tom Scott, Athletic Director, recently
announced. “This year's freshman class has a lot of good athletes according to the results of this test,” Dr. Scott
said. “Only 25% failed it as compared with 33% of last year’s class who failed.” In addition, this year’s frosh
compiled an average score of 343, which betters last year’s class by 24 points.

The records broken were as follows:
Parallel bar dip — old mark, 26 dips; new mark, 41, set by Pat Fisher."Good soccer at Davidson," says Fogelman,
"and things look real good." Other material available to Fogelman includes five Richardson scholars and sophomore standouts Tarby Bryant and
Fred Schoen. Season opener for the booters is October 7 with King College in Bristol, Tenn. The first match on
home soil is with Carson-Newman, October 13. Both Fogelman and Kelly hope for widespread student support this year. Fogelman, notably
pleased with local interest, concluded, "We've got a good turnout, but one more man might be just the man we
need." One note of interest on the booters’ schedule is the fact that North Carolina, always a powerhouse, will play
here October 24. N. C. State is here November 2, and the 'Cats travel to Duke November 13.

Whittle Expects Good Season

From fensive ends in the conference last season, but has been shifted to the offensive team in order to utilize
his blocking and receiving ability. Jerry Sheffield, senior end, is a transplanted halfback whose speed should make him one of
the conference's most elusive pass receivers. Alex Gibbs, junior halfback, is a true speedster and a constant breakaway threat. Joe
Jones, sophomore halfback, has service ball experience under his belt so shouldn’t make sophomore mistakes. Bob McAllister, senior fullback, is
a real tank up the middle and his speed has definitely improved. The interior line looks set and the following
players are there to clear a path for the backs: Mike Owen (195) and Bill Dole, Jr. (230), tackles; Russell
Walls (200) and Dave Lovette (215), guards; and Bruce Usher (175), center.

DEFENSIVE UNIT

JERRY SHEFFIELD, senior end, could be one of the conference’s top pass receivers this fall. The defensive unit appears set
as follows: ends, Bill Whittington and Jennings Snider, a real toughie to block; tackles, Bill Salzer and Eddie Crutchfield; guards,
Bill Bankhead and Dick Voorhees; linebackers, Carl Hunt and Joe Ansley, a couple of headhunters; and halfbacks, Duncan Morton, Bob
Cordle, and Kent Tucker. Dole declares he has the most depth in ten years, and plans to play about 33
boys a game. Some of the outstanding personnel ready for reserve duty are Mickie Slaughter, offensive tackle; Cecil Holcomb, offensive
guard; Morris Williams, defensive guard; Earl Cole, quarterback who will see lots of action; Barry Billington and Jim Fuller, offensive
halfbacks; Lyle Blalock, defensive halfback; and Lynwood Mallard, fullback.

Phi Delts Wins IF Cup; SAE’s A Close Second

The Phi Delts won the 1960-61 intramural league in one of the closest I-F races ever at Davidson. The Delts
nipped the SAE’s by a mere 15 points for the championship. The sport that turned the tide last year for
the league champions was tennis. Leading with softball and tennis remaining on the schedule, the Delts had to share the
softball championship with their pursuer as both netted 160 points. But on the tennis courts, the Delts garnered 71 points
to the SAE’s 57. Final overall point standings were as follows: Phi Delts, 1026; SAE’s, 1011; KA’s, 894; Kappa Sigs,
871; Sigma Chis, 794; Betas, 726; Phi Gams, 714; ATO’s, 654; Sig Eps, 633; Pi Kapps, 583; Pikas, 561; Independents,
470; and Sigma Nus, 426. This year’s IF program should swing into action sometime next week with flickerball slated to
be the traditional opening sport. Set to defend the flickerball championship are the Kappa Sigs, who went undefeated in twelve
contests a year ago. Back from that powerhouse is All-Star tailback Johnny Rogers, center Jim Woods, and ace defensive back
Johnny Almond.

Freshman Cake Race Slated For Monday

The annual Freshman Cake Race will take place this coming Monday afternoon, September 18, at 5 p.m. Coach Heath Whittle
has asked all freshmen that they report to the soccer field and be ready to run by five. There will
be 60 plus cakes on hand to be awarded to the first 60 plus frosh who finish the race. Once
again Coach Whittle will be carefully observing the field of runners in search of cross country talent. Several of the
present Wildcat harriers were discovered through the Cake Race. Last year’s winner was Tim Spiro.

Veteran Harriers

"I believe we'll have a real good season," declares Coach Heath Whittle, referring to this year’s Davidson cross country team.
Whittle’s optimism centers mainly around a small but smoothly functioning piece of humanity named Sterling Martin, junior letterman with endurance
plus. Martin, Cake Race winner two years ago, led Davidson in last year's conference meet, where he finished eighth with
a time of 22:16 minutes. Other experienced runners include Captain David Gilmour, lettermen Larry Leafer, Tom Martin, David Page, Bob
Scales, and Tom Wright. A bright prospect is sophomore Tim Spiro. The harriers open their schedule at Pembroke, September 29.
The first home meet is slated for October 4, with Wake Forest.

The Wildkittens will play five games this season (three home games). Following the September 28 opening, The Citadel, Furman, Ferrum
Junior College, and Gardner-Webb round out the schedule. A few names that should be prominent as the season progresses include
Bruce Dalton, a guard from Lenoir, N. C.; Steve Heckard, end from Winston-Salem; Dave Hendricks, back from Gastonia; Barry Story,
varsity.

Dodge run — old, 20.9 seconds; new, 20.2, Steve Kash. 100-yard dash — old, 10.5 seconds; new, 10.2, Thomas Watson.
Softball throw — old, 285 feet; new, 290, Guy Hunter.

Barnette’s ESSO SERVICE STATION

Pick-up and Delivery Service on Saturdays
SPECIAL — CAR WASH $1.50
BRAKES RELINED ON Ford, Chevrolet, Plymouth — $14.95
Phone TR 5-9997
Road Service
Highway 21 on the way to Charlotte
Grease Job with Gold Stamps
Oil Change 75c

FOR RELAXATION, Just Up The Road IT’S The Gant Story

ENTREES: Deviled Crab, Sugar Cured Baked Ham with Pineapple Ring, Southern Fried Chicken, Country Style Steak with Brown Gravy, Fresh
Filet of Flounder

VEGETABLES: Creamed Irish potatoes, Fresh garden stewed corn, Green lima beans, Sliced tomatoes, Bartlett pear salad, Tossed green salad with
a choice of dressings. Hot rolls, milk, buttermilk, chocolate milk and desserts of ice cream and assorted pies.

ALSO — Have Sunday Dinner With Us at Earnhardt’s Fish & Steak House

Brand new, modern Air-conditioned Restaurant
Plenty of Parking Space
Open Weekdays from 4-12
Sundays from 12-9
“We specialize in Steaks and Seafoods”
Located close by... From Davidson, go out Hwy. 73 to Odell School and follow the sign.

Sunday Dinner $1.25
This price includes choice of meat, three vegetables, rolls and tea or coffee.

OUR CHILD'S PLATES ARE JUST 75c... and they include a choice of meat, 2 vegetables and tea.

We cater to weddings, banquets, church suppers, socials and private parties. Our banquet room seats 140 guests — And our
main dining room seats 100. We have small private dining rooms for family groups. Room to accommodate your biggest group.

FOR INFORMATION AND RESERVATIONS — CALL ST 2-8803, CONCORD, N. C.
Sam Laughter, Manager
