FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE:

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

HATS OFF TO TOM SCOTT

Tom Scott is a busy man these days to say the least. Besides his normal duties as athletic director here
at Davidson, Dr. Scott has been whisked up into the wild and wooly world of NCAA basketball tournaments. For the
fourth straight year, Scott was chosen to head the Eastern Regional tournament committee down Charlotte way. This is no ordinary
job. Try selling 12,000 tickets to 20,000 people and you'll know about how Scott feels now. Then try arranging hotel
accommodations for the St. Bonaventure, Princeton, Wake Forest, and St. Joseph's basketball teams, and you'll know even more about Scott’s
job. (Incidentally, a lot of hotels just don’t seem to have extra beds around for 6-9 and 6-10 guests). In
addition, try answering your telephone (both of them) about once a minute, and explaining to some enthusiastic fan who wants
to know, “Well, why in the hell don’t you have more tickets!” Then try arranging the program for the gala
affair, the practice schedules for each team, and the million and one other “small” jobs in running a tournament, and
you'll know exactly how Scott stands at the moment. In other words, he’s a pretty busy man. Scott and his
committee have done a good job with the Regional affair. So good, in fact, that NCAA top brass is considering
bringing the finals of the whole mess to Charlotte next year. These visiting giants. Visiting coaches receive sport coats, each
player is allotted a number of tickets for family and friends, etc. As Scott told a Princeton official on the
phone Wednesday, “We're getting ready to show you fellows some real Southern hospitality down here.” Scott went to New York
Tuesday for the Wake Forest - St. John game and appeared on television at halftime. TV announcer Charlie Harvel of
Greensboro interviewed him, and kept beating around the bush, just as we’re doing, when all he had to say was
just what we want to say, “Tom, you’re doing a helluva job.”

I-F TOURNAMENT

With the high pitched fever of basketball tournaments filling the sports bull sessions these days, we'd like to suggest something
for the local scene. For the past several years, two or more teams have tied for the I-F basketball championship.
Since each team plays only twelve games, there is a real possibility that every year will be a deadlock. Since
most people had rather lose than tie (those with gambling blood especially), we'd like to suggest a playoff between I-F
co-champions, not only in basketball, but in flickerball, handball, softball, and volleyball. If three teams tie, let one draw a
bye and meet the winner of the other two. Even better, why doesn’t the IMAC arrange an I-F basketball tournament?
The four best fraternity teams from Wake Forest or some other nearby school could come here and face our best
four. Or all-star inter-fraternity teams from several schools could be invited here to meet our best. We think these suggestions
have some real possibilities, and should be looked into. Besides, Hattie’s would make a killing!

Wright Cops AAU Wrestling Title

“He’s the most improved man on our team,” Coach Charlie Parker says of Tom Wright, the 123-lb. dynamo for the
wrestlers this season. Wright, who came home from the AAU meet in Raleigh last weekend with a first place trophy
in his division, is our “Wildcat of the Week.”

FOUR PINS

Wright pinned all four of his opponents on his way to the 123-lb. title in the annual Carolina AAU wrestling
meet. The meet is open to anyone in North or South Carolina, as long as the entry is an amateur.
Having never wrestled in high school, the strong little sophomore from Richmond, Va., decided to try out for last year’s
freshmen team. He did and made the team. However, last year was a long one for Wright, who didn’t find
winning an easy thing. Parker is counting heavily on Wright to pull the ’Cats up in the rugged Southern Conference
the next two years. Although the meet was not based on team competition, each team keeps up with its overall
standing. Host N. C. State, which entered 24 men, finished first; Appalachian grabbed second; and Davidson was third. Other Wildcats
who competed in the two-day event finished as follows: Ken Barger (115), second; Sam Glascow (147), third; and Linwood Holt
(167), third. The team’s next match is with Duke, and Parker is hoping Wright will be able to make the
trip.

LEADING SCORER

But he gained experience, and was the leading scorer for this year's varsity. Naturally, ended the Kappa Sigs’ hopes in
the two doubles matches and clipped Cooke and Louis Wyche, 21-18 and 21-19. Sledge and Mainor were undefeated this year.

1. Tommy Hamilton, Betas 12 204 17.0
2. Quinton Boyd, Pi Kapps 12 201 16.8
3. Hight Redmond, KA’s 11 171 15.5
4. Jim Fuller, Kappa Sigs 11 170 15.5

By virtue of their basketball success, the SAE’s extended their overall lead for the I-F trophy. The Phi Delts are
the defending champions, and will have to do well in the four remaining sports (volleyball, track, softball, and tennis) in
order to clinch a tie. The final basketball standings:

FINAL I-F BASKETBALL STANDINGS

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

Kappa Sigs 10 2
Sigma Chis 9 3
KA’s 8 4
Betas 8 4
Phi Gams 8 4
Independents 6 6
Pi Kapps 4 8
Pikas 3 9
Sigma Nus 2 10
Sig Eps 0 12

HANDBALL

George Sledge & Tom Mainor captured the handball championship for the ATO's Monday afternoon by nipping the Kappa Sigs. The
final score was 21-18 and 21-19. Sledge and Mainor were undefeated this year.

SPORTS CALENDAR

TODAY — Tennis Pfeiffer, here
TOMORROW — Baseball Catawba, here, 2 p.m.
MONDAY — Golf High Point, at Mooresville
TUESDAY — Baseball Pfeiffer, here, 3 p.m.
WEDNESDAY — Track Catawba, here
THURSDAY — Tennis Pfeiffer, there
FRIDAY — Baseball, Hampden-Sydney, here, 3 p.m.

SUPPORT THE ‘CATS

Mintz Makes Debut As Coach By MEL McKENZIE Davidsonian Sports Writer

Semi Mintz began a new career today as head tennis coach at Davidson College. The ex-Wildcat star sent his forces
against Pfeiffer here thisafternoon. With only a week of practice, the 'Cats pooled returnees Doug Orr, Finley Lee, Andy Sherrill,
Bobby Snead, and Stefan Young for the match. Last year, the local netmen defeated Pfeiffer and were favored to repeat
as victors today. The netters go to Pfeiffer this Thursday.

WIDE OPEN
“Positions are wide open,” declared Mintz. “These lettermen are being forced to defend their positions.” Today's match was expected to
be decisive in this respect. Sophomores Bobby Austell, Bill Beckland, and Fred Lopp hunt for a spot. In addition, Richardson
scholar Nick Cooper from England has been declared eligible for varsity competition. Cooper has had a great deal of tennis
experience and is expected to help the ’Cats tremendously.

WIMBLEDON ACTION
Cooper began playing at the age of eight. He competed in the Junior Wimbledon matches for the title of Great
Britain. During the coming week, the team will undergo round-robins. This type of practice is expected to help Mintz learn
more about his personnel. “I want the very best men I can find playing at each position,” commented Mintz. The
young mentor plans to trim the squad to nine men this week.

MINTZ EXPERIENCED
Mintz steps into his new position with plenty of tennis savvy. He played for Davidson from 1955-1959 and has worked
summers as a tennis instructor at the Raleigh Country Club. The highlight on the netters’ schedule is the South Conference
tournament the first weekend in May at Charleston, S.C.

Golfers Open With High Point Monday
Davidson College golf team Captain Coach Tom Scott has been hurt by graduation. Scott and his men really roll out
the red carpet for the match. The team opens its 1961 season Monday afternoon at Mooresville against High Point College.
The linksters will be seeking to find five new men to join conference medalist Verner Stanley in defense of the
Southern Conference crown. Scott is expecting qualifying scores this week to find Stanley's new co-captains.

DOUG ORR displays the backhand that has helped him be Davidson’s number one tennis player and co-captain along with Finley
Lee. (Davidsonian Photo by Bill Wyche)

VOLLEYBALL BEGINS
Unbeaten ATO’s Win Handball
The intramural winter sports gave way to spring activities this week as volleyball action got underway yesterday. Basketball and handball
completed their schedules, and final standings found the Phi Delts and SAE’s deadlocked for the basketball crown, while the ATO’s
were undefeated handball champs.

BASKETBALL
The last week of I-F basketball games was typical of the way the season went overall. Upsets and better-balanced teams
characterized the league this year, during which some of the most thrilling contests took place between the campus’s rival fraternities.
Monday night, the Pi Kapps walloped the Sigma Nus, 57-21, as high-scoring Quinton Boyd poured in 20 points. Meanwhile, the
Phi Delts almost blew their co-champion role, as the Independents came on strong in the second half, only to fall
short, 33-31. The ATO’s forfeited to the Kappa Sigs. Tuesday night, the Phi Gams, SAE’s, and Delts shared the hoop
crown; ATO’s completed an undefeated season. Kappa Sig Bob Cooke defeated Sledge in the singles match, but the Taus came
back strong.

Wildcat By JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Baseballers Swat Pfeiffer In Opener Here Today; Netters Entertain Catawba Here Tomorrow
5-4 Nip Riles
By an error and a tissue-thin margin, the ’Cat baseballers were nosed out in their seasonal debut Wednesday by a
5-4 decision to Catawba College at Salisbury. Tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m. on home soil, the ‘Cats meet the victorious
Indians in a return performance. If Wednesday's game is at all indicative, the Saturday match should prove interesting. Trailing by
two runs in the top of the ninth inning, Davidson got a lift from shortstop Harry Smith, who jolted the
game to a 4-4 tie with a smashing triple. Moments later, in the bottom of the ninth, an error at
third base allowed the Indians to slip across the game-winning run.

However, Coach Tom Stevens was not altogether disappointed with his team’s first outing. Said Stevens, “We're better along than last
year. The big difference today was the hitting. We just didn’t hit.” Nevertheless, in Stevens’ bemoaning of the sparse hitting,
there was still an optimistic tone, confident of better things yet to come. Even though the ‘Cats were perhaps lacking
in the hit department, the agile Wildcat defense turned in three double plays for the afternoon. “The defense,” said Stevens,
“was better than usual, better infield play.” Stevens kept the bullpen busy and his pitchers’ arms warm, trying three hurlers:
Graham Showalter (P-SS), Jerry Shelton (P), Nick Daves (P), and Tommy Hamilton (P-OF), in three innings of play each.

Tuesday, the locals entertain Pfeiffer here in the third game of their twenty-six game schedule. Only one game will be
played rather than the originally planned doubleheader. The freshman squad traveled to Harding High School for their opener yesterday. Coach
Joe Hunt named Earl Cole and Jim Moore as probable starting pitchers. Hunt believes he has a basketful of good
hitters on this frosh unit, the most outstanding being Britt Smith, John Baum, Rick Smyre, Tommy Hutchens, Whit Whiticy, and
Lou Metz.

The varsity squad as of now is as follows: Graham Showalter (P), Nick Daves (P), Jerry Jacques (P), Tommy Hamilton
(P-OF), Harry Cline (C), Bob Gregory (C), Tom Harris (1B-P), Cecil Holcomb (1B-OF), Tommy Tuttle (2B), Paul Reynolds (3B), Captain
Russ Cotton (3B), Harry Smith (SS), Ed Hine (LF), Lou Metz (LF), Allan Millar (CF), Hal Todd (CF), Jerry Cole
(RF-C), and Carl Rust (RF).

Cindermen Run Wed. - Catawba
The track team is taking advantage of the good weather to prepare for its first outdoor meet of the season
with Catawba on Wednesday, March 29. Coach Thrift reports that the team is improving but needs to get into better
shape during the days before the meet. He is counting on John Sharpe, Roger Beebe, and Hugh Murray to post
good performances in the 440-yard run and broad jump respectively. Roger Keith Fraser, a recent “Wildcat of the Week,” has
been hindered in the high jump by a pulled muscle, and Thrift is hoping for him to have regained his
agility in this event by the time of the Catawba contest.

At the Atlantic Coast Conference indoor track meet in Chapel Hill last Saturday, Furman walked away with the top non-conference
honors, scoring over forty points more than second place VMI. The Citadel, William and Mary, VPI, Davidson, and Richmond followed
in that order. Bill Beckert won the only Davidson points by placing third in the two-mile race. As to the
season's outlook, Thrift was hesitant to make any predictions since it is too early to tell how the 'Cats and
other teams are shaping up. “We'll do all right once we get in shape,” he added.

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina.
