FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1961 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

Furman Here Today

The Davidson cross-country team met Furman here at 3:00 this afternoon. The Paladins brought a 3-0 record into the meet while the Wildcat harriers sported a 3-2 record. Sterling Martin, who carried a record of five first places into the meet, faced his toughest competition of the year in Furman’s Patterson, who is a former junior college runner. Patterson, in Furman’s first meet of the year against Catawba, which they won 21-36, broke the Catawba Course record of 22:04. His time was 21:38.

Coach Heath Whittle was not optimistic in referring to the meet and remarked, “Patterson is probably the best runner in the Southern Conference, and Furman has been predicted to be Southern Conference champions in cross-country this year.”

Next Tuesday afternoon, the Whittlemen journey to Richmond, Va., to meet the Richmond Spiders. The young harriers, paced by Chester Davis and Dennis Phillips, scored a victory over Myers Park and South Mecklenburg high schools in a three-way meet here last Tuesday afternoon. The score in the meet was Davidson 27, Myers Park 41, and South Mecklenburg 54.

STRICTLY BIG BUSINESS

DR. PAUL A. MARROTTE, history professor and soccer coach last year, dropped a line to one of his former students and players recently. Dr. Marrotte is studying and teaching at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor this year and plans to return to Davidson next fall. We thought you might be interested in some excerpts from the letter which point out the truly big business attitude that the large schools have toward athletics.

“Up here, the stadium seats 101,000 people, and on a couple of Saturdays this fall, every seat in the house will be taken. If all goes well, I hope to see the Duke game next month. The local schedule is as tough as any in the country, including Army, Michigan State, Ohio State, Duke, and Purdue. The home squad numbers 66 players. Last Saturday all 66 played against UCLA, which doesn’t happen very often.

“Football is strictly big business here, and no one pretends it is anything else. Undergraduates number 12,000, and largely think of football as most people do watching a TV or pro game.”

So, from a first-hand account, we can see that football is just a business at many of the larger schools. It is not a game to be played and enjoyed, but a means for making several thousand dollars for the school. The schools pretend to invest most of the money in scholarships, thus providing 60 “poor” lads with a college education. But how many of those lads really get an education? Most of them are in college for one reason—to play football. So what if they do flunk a couple of courses? The administration wouldn’t dare flunk a 6-0, 210-lb. specimen of manhood who can run 100 yards in less than 10 seconds out of school. The alumni would be on them like fleas on a dog. Furthermore, the real good players won’t need a college diploma to play pro ball, the usual destination of the big stars. So they use up their three years of eligibility, and wave goodbye to a school that was never really a school to them, but an extensive football camp.

Thank goodness we don't have that situation at Davidson. When a boy accepts a football scholarship (or any athletic scholarship) to this school, it is with the understanding that he is going to have to do a lot more than play football. He is going to have to study, probably at the expense of his football game. Certainly the hours of study never did an athlete much good.

THE CRYSTAL BALL (.690)

OUR CRYSTAL BALL was extremely truthful last week (6-1), and it forecast the Homecoming game on the nose. We now have a fairly respectable record of 20-9, or a .690 percentage. To raise this latter figure over the .700 mark, we'll pick this weekend’s games as follows:

Davidson entertains VMI in a “must” game for defense apparently last 10-7, with a field goal being the difference. The game this weekend is the Furman-Citadel game tomorrow afternoon in Charleston. The winner will probably be conference champ. Furman’s offense can still go, and Citadel’s defense hasn’t been tested. Pick Furman, 21-14.

Other games tomorrow: George Washington over William & Mary, 21-8 (tonight); Florida State over Richmond, 14-0; Virginia over VPI, 14-13; and West Virginia over Boston U., 28-7.

Usher "Dogged” PC With Defense, Toe

If Presbyterian’s outstanding quarterback, Bobby Joiner, remembers anything about last week’s game here at Davidson, he probably recalls the number 51 more than anything else. The reason Joiner would remember this number is simple—he saw it in big red letters staring in his face all afternoon.

Number 51 was Bruce Usher, our “Wildcat of the Week.” From his linebacker slot on defense, Usher “red-dogged” the frustrated Joiner all day and dropped him for several losses. In addition to his fine defensive play, the 5-10, 180-lb. senior from Bennettsville, S. C., booted his seventh extra point in as many attempts for the season. Thus he is labeled, “the most accurate toe in the Southern Conference.”

Usher also booted some excellent kickoffs. On one occasion, his kickoff lofted toward the PC endzone. The two deep backs for PC drifted back to receive it, and crashed together like two outfielders chasing a fly ball. Needless to say, this delighted Wildcat fans. On another occasion, Usher kicked off, eluded his would-be blocker, and threw a jarring tackle on the ball carrier. Most kickoff artists are satisfied to let someone else do the tackling after they make the kick.

BRUCE USHER

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

Although no one can remember when a Davidson soccer team last beat Carolina, most of the matches have been close. Typical of the series are the matches played in the last two years. In 1959 Davidson lost 1-0, while last year’s match was a real heartbreaker as the ‘Cats posted 8-3 records last year. Although hit hard by graduation losses the Wildcats have gotten off to a quick start this season.

Eleven Hoopsters

Eleven basketball players were on hand to greet Coach...winning their first two matches. “Lefty” Driesell at Monday's initial workout. North Carolina has a 2-2 record so far this season. The Tarheels have defeated Roanoke, 2-0, and Washington & Lee, 4-1, while losing to Navy, 1-5, and Westchester, 0-2. Fogelman has no injuries on his squad as they prepare to face Carolina. The starting lineup will include goalie McCutchen, fullbacks Harrison Wellford, Bob Meldrum, and Tarby Bryant, halfbacks Bill Wallace and Frank Tulloch, center Fred Schoen, insides David Dakin and Captain Joe Kelley, and wings Mike Nemir and Charles Sasser.

Driesell greeted three seniors, Captain D. G. Martin, Alan Millar, and Bob Moore; three juniors, Bill Jarman, Haywood Evans, and Danny Carrell; and five sophomores, Terry Holland, Bill Beerman, Durwood Settles, Howard Arbuckle, and Lymon Dillon.

TOUCHDOWN BOUND — Sophomore halfback intercepted a pass for a 75-yard touchdown play in the first quarter of last week's game with PC. (Davidsonian Staff Photo by Joe McCutchen.)

The soccer season will reach one of its climaxes as Davidson meets North Carolina here at 3 p.m. Tuesday. Although Coach Harry Fogelman conservatively described the game as “one of nine big games this season,” this game is a little more important.

The soccer team continues its season Friday by meeting South Carolina here at 3 p.m. Fogelman knows nothing about the Gamecocks, except that soccer is a new sport at South Carolina.

1-F Flickerball Action

The Sigma Chis nipped them, 54-51, in a scoring marathon. Trailing by 3 points with 50 seconds left, the Sigma Chis intercepted a pass and returned it all the way for the deciding touchdown.

1-F STANDINGS (through Thursday)
KA's 3 2
Sigma Chis 3 3
ATO’s 3 4
Independents 3 2
SPE's 2 4
Sigma Nus 1 6
Pikas 0 5
Pi Kapps 0 5
Kappa Sigs 6 1
Phi Gams 5 1
Phi Delts 5 1
Betas 4 1
SAE's 4 1

Thursday's results: Sigma Chis 54, Kappa Sigs 51; Betas 39, ATO’s 26; Phi Delts 26, Independents 20; and Sigma Nus beat the Pi Kapps on yardage after a 13-13 tie.

The varsity schedule is as follows:
December 2—at Wake Forest,
5—at Duke,
9—at VMI,
HERE, 3—at William & Mary,
5—at Richmond,
10—VMI HERE,
12—Clemson HERE,
15—at Furman,
16—at Erskine,
20—Richmond HERE,
24—at The Citadel.
(* denotes Southern Conference)

Informal Practice

Unofficial practice for Davidson’s wrestlers began last Monday afternoon at 4:00. Workouts will be generally light for the first two weeks. Heavier workouts will begin after that in preparation for the first meet on December 1.

Returning lettermen are Butch LeDoyen, (team captain), Ben McCoy, Harry Brown, Tom Wright, Ken Barger, Charles Trask, Tom Brown, and Jim Alexander. Sam Glasgow, Billy Mills, and Russell Walls are good prospects from last year’s freshman team. Also Joe Jones, football halfback who was ineligible last year, will add strength to the team. Coach Charlie Parker believes this will be one of the finest Davidson wrestling teams ever.

The Air Force needs college-trained men and women officers. This is caused by the rapidly advancing technology in air and space. Base pay, tax-free allowances, free medical and dental care, retirement provisions, and other benefits make it an attractive package. You don’t have to be an economics major to see the advantages.

As an officer, you can apply for the Air Force Institute of Technology. At no cost, and while on active duty, you can further your education. For more information, contact your local Air Force Recruiter or write to Career Information, Dept. AF, Washington, D.C.

There's a place for your achievement in the U.S. Air Force.

Keydets Locals Seek First Conference Victory
BY JOHNNY SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Resting anxiously in the Southern Conference cellar, the Davidson gridders tomorrow make their third attempt to notch their 2-2 seasonal record with a conference victory. It’s “Wildcat Day” and the first conference game on home soil for the locals as they meet the perennially rugged VMI at 2:30 p.m.

NOT AS GOOD

The Keydets from Lexington, Virginia, bring to Davidson a 2-3 record, with wins over St. Richmond, and AC. From all seasonal appearances, the Keydets seem below the par set by their pigskin predecessors. Coach Bill Dole admits that this VMI contingent has not been equal to past VMI standards. But he is not overjoyed when he comments, “We're going to have our hands full. They're a very good team.”

SLOW LINE

The weakness of the Keydets is concentrated in the line. VMI, who in past seasons has boasted hefty lines that could almost outsprint the backfield, possesses a stout but much slower line this year. The backfield ballad is sung to a different tune. Speed and experience spell out a heavy-duty task for the 'Cats. All four backs are seniors. And all four are fast. “Much faster than we are,” says Dole. “All of them can move out.”

FAST BACKS

With a battery of fast backs and quarterback Bobby Mitchell, who is equally as dangerous on the rollout as in the air, Dole concludes, “We're going to have to contain their passing and their movement on the ground.”

The ‘Cats, with the permanent loss of Benny Coxton and the doubtful status of Bill Bankhead, added another to the injured list in the Homecoming fray, losing temporarily linebacker Carl Hunt.

Next weekend the ‘Cats will journey to Richmond, Va., for a conference battle with the University of Richmond Spiders. Last year the Spiders whipped Davidson here, 35-7. The Spiders’ attack is paced by All-Conference quarterback Mel Rideout.

THE CONNOISSEUR RESTAURANT
B.B. QUE DRIVE-IN
ON THE WAY TO SALEM
EAT DINNER WITH US
@ PIZZA
B.B. QUE
SANDWICHES
COLD DRINKS
N. MAIN, MOORESVILLE

COCA-COLA AND COKE ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS
Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina