PAGE FOUR

MEMBERS OF THE YMCA Cabinet gathered at Erwin Lodge last Sunday for a special retreat. The entire program of the
Y was evaluated, with the discussion directed to unifying the group’s conception of the role of the Y on campus.
President Frank Mansell led the retreat. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Furtive Spying Reveals Martin's Secret Avocation

BY WILLIAM WALKER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

"It's sort of an unusual avocation," admitted President D. Grier Martin of Davidson College, when questioned about his private sport
of "frisbee throwing." The questioning centered around President Martin’s off-hours preoccupation with a flying-saucer-like plastic disk known as a "frisbee."
Gnawing curiosity about the manifestations of violent activity in the Martins’ backyard led first to furtive spying through hedges, and
finally, to an open interview with the president.

"Last spring," said Dr. Martin, "some of the boys developed an interest in frisbee throwing. They would play between Chambers
and my house, and I used to stop and watch them on my way home." Dr. Martin was asked if
he would like to learn the art of frisbee throwing. He said he was willing and asked that Joe Robinson
come over and give him a few lessons. "Joe was the champ of them all," he says. "He could throw
it a mile."

"A few days later, I was maneuvered into a game of throwing it." However, he was greatly embarrassed because he
couldn't sail it straight or catch it. "But one of the boys lent me one to practice with," he says,
and he promptly got involved in another game. "This time," he says, "I was asked if I would like to
have one. It developed that this person had them for sale, large ones for a dollar, and small ones for
75 cents. So I got a large one which I’ve used ever since."

It usually takes no trouble to organize some activity with a frisbee, according to Dr. Martin, but he’s had some
difficulty lately. For one thing, Joe Robinson hasn’t been by to give instruction in a long time. "I saw him
just recently," said Dr. Martin, "and asked him why he hadn’t been by, and in explanation, he stuck out his
foot, which unfortunately was broken."

Hence the activity in the Martin backyard. Lacking a frisbee mate, he’s forced to play with it himself, throwing it,
picking it up, and throwing it again. Occasionally he and one of his sons will do battle with it, throwing
the frisbee straight at each other at close range till one of them drops it. Refuting rumors that he had
an official frisbee throwing outfit, Dr. Martin said that he has played in all sorts of costumes, from business suits
to shorts, depending on the circumstances. However, he does wear golf shoes to avoid the occasional spills he took as
a novice. "When you're running and it suddenly floats down at you, it is mighty easy to end up on
your back," he says.

Frisbee throwing may face the same oblivion as the hula hoop in the near future, due to a paucity of
supply rather than interest. "I have a good many friends in Charlotte who have gotten interested in frisbee throwing, who
try to buy them and find they've gone out of stock," he says.

Six Students Meet Miss Universe

(Continued From Page One)

about the same job as a man, but they generally aren’t as efficient." The students seemed almost to forget Miss
Universe as they tackled their first German breakfast in months: "Wurst, real wurst, it’s delicious... and cheese, I suppose I
miss Swiss cheese more than anything." Fraeulein Schmidt, who speaks only German and Russian and no English, went on to
comment about the language barrier. "The first time I made a T.V. commercial, I was supposed to pour some Royal
Crown Cola into a glass and say, 'Royal Crown!' I learned the lines carefully, but when I poured, I made
a mistake and said, 'Coca-Cola! Delicious'!"

"Actually, I like Coke best of all anyway," she commented. From her interpreter came a friendly warning, "Ssh, Marlene, the
enemy may be listening!" An old German man had pushed his way to her side for a picture. "If you're
ever in Charlotte again and want to speak German, just call on me. Heh, heh."

A well-furred and obviously thick-skinned Charlotte lady rushed breathlessly up to one of the Davidson boys. "You don't mind taking
my husband's picture with your camera, do you? I want a picture of him with Miss Universe." Two cooks had
now left the buffet table and were taking home movies. "Everybody who wants to go to church with Miss Universe,
raise his hand please. Okay, report to the cars at the front of the hotel." The Miss Universe group, including
the Davidsonians, were greeted at St. Mark’s Lutheran Church by the rector, who made a long welcoming speech to a
still but uncomprehending Marlene Schmidt. He ended with a bit of German, "Verstehen Sie?" Heads turned as the group marched
to the front of the church sanctuary. The rector rose, began the service in the name of the Father, the
Son, and the Holy Ghost, and announced that the congregation was host to the second most beautiful woman in the
world.

After Vespers

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Abernethy
Bernard
Clark
Davidson
Embry
Fredericksen
Goldiere
Holland
Hopkins
Lobanov
Logan
Martin, D. G.
Pietenpol
Puckett
Wheaton
Woods
Workman

60,000 Main Goal of Library

Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the library, revealed this week further details concerning the improvement of the library, which
was announced in last week's DAVIDSONIAN as one of the salient features of Davidson College’s new 15-year plan. Dr. Davidson
stated that 150,000 volumes are needed for an ideal library for a school of about 1,000 students. At present, the
Davidson library contains approximately 85,000 - 90,000 volumes, and these are being increased at the rate of about 6,000 volumes
a year. This rate of increase will provide the desired number of volumes in about 15 years.

MORE SPACE NEEDED

The present library building, Davidson said, will "pack" this number of books, but more space will be needed to facilitate
the handling and shelving of books. Except for this need for more stack space about 12 years from now, Dr.
Davidson said that the present building is adequate. He added, however, that the reserve reading room should be enlarged, possibly
into the upper floor of the new wing, though this was built to hold the weight of bookstacks.

RARE BOOK ROOM

Concerning the rare book room, Dr. Davidson reports that when funds are available it will be fixed with shelves and
stacks with wire in the front. This room will be used chiefly for display, though it will also be open
for student use. The rare book collection has been growing; it now includes an incunabulum (the only one that Davidson
has) given by Mr. Harry Dalton of Charlotte. This book is the Opera.

College Issue

(Continued From Page One)

age member devotes to the club.

ROSTER REQUIRED

Each organization is also asked to enclose with the questionnaire a copy of its constitution and by-laws, as well as
a roster with the names of the entire membership, which will be kept on file by the college for future
reference. Elaborating further on the college's need for such information, particularly the annual rosters and evaluations, Dean Burts pointed out
that his office is often asked for the record of a student who graduated several years ago. As it is
now, the college has no way of knowing which students were actually active in which organizations during a given year,
nor are there any qualitative records on file as to what kind of year the particular group had. Also, as
Dean Burts said, this information will assist students. "These records will be kept to be fixed with shelves and stacks
with wire in the front. This room will be used chiefly for display, though it will also be open for
student use. The rare book collection has been growing; it now includes an incunabulum (the only one that Davidson has)
given by Mr. Harry Dalton of Charlotte. This book is the Opera.Omnia of Seneca, printed in Venice in 1492.

Retake Schedule Set For Yearbook

Photographers will return to Davidson Nov. 8 to finish taking student pictures for the 1962 QUIPS AND CRANKS. The pictures
will be taken in the Green Room of the College Union. Men should wear white shirts and dark, conservative coats
and ties. The schedule below has been set up by fraternities, and all students are requested to follow it.

1:00-1:30 Independents and Sigma Nu
1:30-2:00 Phi Gamma Delta
2:00-2:30 Beta Theta Pi
2:30-3:00 Phi Delta Theta
3:00-3:30 Sigma Phi Epsilon and Sigma Chi
3:30-4:00 Pi Kappa Phi
4:00-4:30 Alpha Tau Omega
4:30-5:00 Kappa Alpha
5:00-5:30 Sigma Alpha Epsilon
5:30-6:00 Kappa Sigma

CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR

Subscribe Now at Half Price

You can read this world-famous daily newspaper for the next six months for $5.50, just half the regular subscription rate.
Get top news coverage, enjoy special features, clip for reference work. Send your order today. Enclose check or money order.
Use coupon below.

The Christian Science Monitor
One Norway St., Boston 15, Mass
Send your newspaper for the time checked.
6 months $5.50 (1 year $11.00)
College Student [ ] Faculty Member [ ]
Name
Address
City Zone State

*This special offer available ONLY to college students, faculty members, and college libraries.

REAT BETWEEN COURSES!

Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1961

Temporary Workshop Built For Labs, ROTC

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Yes, the ROTC Department must have moved in about the middle of the thirties,” Tom Johnson, the college electrician, was
saying. I was sitting somewhat uncomfortably on the rim of a trash barrel watching the repairs progress on the door
to 323 Belk and listening to the nostalgia of the maintenance department. The old asbestos-clad, two-story building that sits under
the new fire siren and behind Cannon and East dorms was originally built as temporary housing for physics and biology
labs. “Right after old Chambers burned,” agreed Sidney Hunsucker, brushing the sawdust off his paint-smeared trousers. “And that’s what they
called it, too: the ‘Temporary Building’.”

HOUSED ROTC

And after stories of the careless students who would leave their coal bins unlocked in old Chambers, the thread of
history was taken up again. The ROTC, established in 1919, occupied the temporary building when the labs moved to the
newly completed south wing of Chambers. And so it was until Belk dormitory was built. And when the valiant sons
of Davidson occupied the basement of Belk, the maintenance department set up shop in the building which still bore the
epithet, “temporary.”

“Yep,” Johnson reminisced with the authority of years, “the shop used to sit between the wings of Belk, out behind
Georgia. . . that’s where the ROTC used to keep their rifles, in the basement. Well, it was under that
tree, yeah, the gingko there. Some of the fellers used to climb up that tree and sleep on the roof
of the shop during lunch break.” The shop and Georgia dormitory are no more, but the asbestos-sided wonder was preserved
for posterity across a strip of asbestos from the tall brick usurper, only yards from where an aerial photograph pictures
it in the 1924 Quips and Cranks.

NOW HOUSES COPS

Oscar Gant, major domo of the college’s 28 janitors (as determined by Sidney, who started from one and numbered them
all), wove more history as he and Reid Gabe, 36 years at Davidson last Wednesday, questioned each other's memories. “The
west wing was secured as a surplus warehouse after World War II. Cop Linker, no, they call him, what is
it. . . yes, Security Officer. Linker and Smith will move from their little office to that little brick building
beside the laundry.” Upstairs was storage mostly ranging from glass panes and rolls of chicken wire to a pair of
chairs which at least one authority on the history of the college is willing to bet came from Phi Hall
when it was restored. There were signs proclaiming “NO TRESPASSING” and “Huntersville Lion’s Club Meets Thursday.”

Back downstairs Gabe and Sidney were debating the chain of command of the college employees. The conversation was long past
the question and answer stage by now, but closing time was coming around, so I excused myself and thanked everyone
for his memory and time. Back in my room beneath the spreading gingko tree, I checked the catalogue for information
on the building that it refers to simply as the shop.

CATALOGUE INFORMATION

But I got no further than the paragraph containing the following sentence: “The newer buildings, thoroughly modern throughout, preserve the
tie with tradition by an adherence in their exteriors to Classical Revival forms.” So the squat little building that’s older
than Chambers or any of the existing dorms challenges not only its predestination to be “temporary,” but also the great
and hoary tradition of Davidson exteriors.

You're needed... just as your father and grandfather were. It’s an obligation that a lot of qualified college men have
to meet. If we don't...

All right. But what can I do for the Air Force?

The Air Force needs college-trained men and women as officers. This is caused by the rapidly advancing technology that goes
with hypersonic air and space flight. Your four years of college have equipped you to handle complex jobs.

Say I was interested... how can I get to be an officer?

You know about Air Force ROTC and the Air Force Academy. Then there's the navigator training program. You've probably heard
about Officer Training School...where the Air Force takes certain college graduates, both men and women, and commissions them after three
months of training.

Starting salary is important. What about that?

Add it up. Base pay, tax-free allowances, free medical and dental care, retirement provision, perhaps flight pay. You don’t have
to be an econ major to see it adds up to an attractive package.

I’ve been thinking about getting my Master's.

As an officer you can apply for the Air Force Institute of Technology. At no cost, and while on active
duty, some officers may even win their Ph.D. degrees.

Tell me more.

That’s the job of your local Air Force Recruiter. Or write to Officer Career Information, SC110, Box 7608, Washington 4,
D.C., if you want further information about the navigator training or Officer Training School programs.

There’s a place for professional achievement in the U.S. Air Force.
