TOURNEYS

Buddy Brauch, general organizer and agitator for the Union staff, has set up tournaments of many descriptions for the summer.

Bridge, ping-pong, chess, and badminton have been suggested for starters, and those who would be interested in Blockhead or Skittles may also be brought into the realm of tourney play.

Those interested in tourney play, pay heed to the register sheets that are to be posted in the Union Lobby.

CINEMA NEWS

The Union is indeed fortunate to have Dave Simpson as chief of the film committee. Dave was the driving force for the highly successful fine film festival here this spring and promises us a summer series that will almost match that of the spring.

The first film will be Charge of the Light Brigade, one of the outstanding films to come out of Hollywood. This film is taken from the poem of the same name by Tennyson.

Michael Curtiz is directing Olivia de Havilland and David Niven in this film, and that would seem to be a recommendation in itself.

This film is to be shown on Friday and Saturday nights at 8:00 o'clock on the Union patio.

CINEMA VI

R.E. Schreder, manager of the Visulite Theatre, is inaugurating his summer series of films—Cinema VI—this Wednesday night at 9:00 PM.

The opening show is to be one of the most powerful Ingmar Bergman films, The Seventh Seal. This should be a memorable series, and one well worth its cost.

The cost is $2.00 per seat for this performance and $6.00 for the entire series. This seems to be a worthwhile investment for those who demand that cinema live up to its potential as an art.

THE LAW

"I have but one rule for Davidson students: be gentlemen." This is a familiar rule for those who have taken the time to study the little handbook of regulations for Davidson students.

Gone is the day when such rules were actually in effect. In the second decade of this century, the University of Virginia had but two rules of conduct: each student was to comport himself as a gentleman, and no pets were to be allowed in the dormitories.

Now, there are countless interpretations of gentlemanly behavior in every college handbook. Does it not seem odd that a virtue that was taken for granted fifty years ago must now be explained to us in the minutest detail?

ALL DESKMEN MEET AT THE UNION AT 3:00 PM TODAY

PAGE TWO