Che Bavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Council Deals With Grave Issue

At no time this year have the actions of the Student Council been of such interest and long-range importance as the deliberations of the body this week on the issue of student elections. The precedents involved and the intent of the constitutions of the student body and the Publications Board seem clear to us. What stands out is the fact that in the heat of personalities and an immediate goal, there is serious danger of enacting motions for a certain end without proper consideration of the full implications, as well as the legality of the move.

Furthermore, we question the wisdom of such a move in the midst of an elections period. If the student body desires a change in procedure, this should be carefully worked out and put to their vote—but in due process and due time. It should not be rushed through, with a concurrent delay in elections, just to meet an immediate end. This year’s publications elections should be run under the procedure as outlined at the beginning of these elections.

We trust the council will seriously deliberate the consequences of this matter and not be ruled by personalities or prejudices in its decision.

The attempts, widely evident the last few days, to nominate and to campaign for another individual have broken the spirit, if not the letter, of the election procedure rules themselves. The tradition of no campaigning has been flagrantly abused—to the point of room-to-room solicitation. What is particularly bad, in addition, is that the full and accurate story of events leading to this “campaign” is not made clear to students.

Weak At Center

The intellectual center of any college or university is its library. For some time, it has been acknowledged that Davidson’s intellectual center, the Grey Library, is one of our weakest points. The new Duke Foundation bequest has provided money for a more adequate staff, but this improvement will leave us a long way from having a perfect, near-perfect, even sufficient library at Davidson.

By far the most central problem is the fact that we just do not have the books that are necessary for a college of Davidson’s calibre. It is not necessary to show how poorly our 73,500 volumes compare with Amherst’s 313,000, Bowdoin’s 249,600, or Swarthmore’s 209,100; any student who has done many research papers has met the problem more existentially—we lack the necessary books and periodicals in every field, with the possible exception of Davidsoniana.

The root of all evils is, of course, money—the Dukes and many other benefactors have been of great service, but we need more. The new fund-raising project for the living endowment should help matters a great deal; what it cannot help, however, is the hopeless system which Davidson employs to get new books for the library. In theory, the idea of having each professor acquisition books might seem like a good one, but in practice, many professors do not live up to their responsibilities. Either they do not order books at all, or their acquisitions reflect only their own narrow interests. Some departments, such as German, have been systematically bringing their departments up to date, but most professors have shown neither this much enthusiasm nor this much concern.

Many libraries employ a full-time acquisitions librarian to build the library and keep it up to date. Could we perhaps adopt this system? If nothing else, cannot professors be urged to live up to their responsibilities?

For the student, the most striking inadequacies lie in the circulation and the building itself. Why acquire new books only to let them go astray? Professors and students report a sharp rise in the numbers of lost and misplaced books in recent years. The fact that one person is in charge of outside circulation and another in charge of the reserve makes the problem even more complex.

The most sadistic aspect of the library problem is the building. Students are crowded into the reserve room whose size (and temperature) corresponds roughly to that of a prison hotbox. The open-stack system seems less appealing after hours of wandering about in the unsystematic, reason-defying maze of the stacks or after climbing the steps to the second floor dozens of times while the stacks on the first floor of the new wing stand completely empty.

The Duke Endowment specifies that its money be spent to provide a sorely needed improvement in the staffing of the library. We hope that the library will be able to bring in more staff members trained in library science. We especially need a periodicals and reference librarian, more help in the cataloguing department, and a general reform uniting the circulation and reserve responsibilities. In addition, we question the wisdom of doing away with the training of student helpers two years ago. It seems that the student assistants could be trained and supervised more adequately. Finally, the college might try to reduce the rapid turnover in sub-professional help in the library, since much time, money, and efficiency is sacrificed in training new employees every year.

And one last question, why has Tropic of Cancer been placed on permanent reserve when it is available to every student for 95c in the Knovel Knook? If this editorial does nothing else, it proves that the powers-that-be have more significant work to do than waste their time trying to keep the Davidson Virtue feeble and cloistered.

In listing these grievances and suggestions, we do not wish to point an accusing finger at any one person or the administration in general, for the fault obviously lies on many shoulders. Dr. Davidson and the library staff have worked hard to make the library as good as they could have, but this has not been sufficient—they need more help from the faculty, administration, and students. This criticism, which we hope is constructive, is our contribution.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Lee Kirby
BUSINESS MANAGER Don Saunders
Associate Editors Bill Hagen, Mac Plaxico
Managing Editors Steve Clark, Jeff Wampler
Feature Editor Bill Ruth
News Editors Sam Fort, David Jordan, Gene Adcock
Photographer Joe McCutchen
Cartoonists Doug Ackerman, Joe Howell, Dan Adams
Advertising Manager Dave Calhoun
Circulation Manager Clay Atkins
Assistant Bus. Manager Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

The 1-2-5 Cake Race

By Howell

Honor Court Requests Extension Of Power

BY HARRISON WELLFORD
Chairman of the Honor Court

The Honor Court would like to present some ideas that have arisen in its discussion about possible improvements in the dismissal rule for honor offenses. These views were presented to the Judicial Review Committee on Monday of this week.

Under present conditions, the Honor Court, upon finding a student guilty of an honor offense, must dismiss the student from Davidson College. In addition, the Honor Court can attach a recommendation suggesting that the student be readmitted after two years. The faculty rules allow any student dismissed for an honor offense to reapply after two years, although there is no assurance that he will be accepted at this time.

SUGGESTION ONLY

The recommendation of the Honor Court is merely a suggestion based on the circumstances of the case involved and may or may not be taken into consideration by the admissions committee at the time that a dismissed student reapplies.

The Honor Court would now request that it be given the additional power to recommend that a student be readmitted after one year if extenuating circumstances exist to justify such action. In order that the Honor Court may have this power of recommendation, it would request that the faculty adjust their rules so that a deserving student could be readmitted after one year if the admissions committee thought such action wise. As above, the recommendation by the Court would merely be a suggestion which the admissions committee is under no compulsion to accept.

REAPPLICATION RESTRICTED

In contrast to the dismissal rule as it now stands, allowing any student to reapply after two years, the Honor Court would further request that no student be allowed to apply after one year’s dismissal unless he has the recommendation of the Court to do so.

The Honor Court feels that this change in the dismissal rule has many factors to recommend it. First, this rule adjustment would be a simple change allowing the possibility of some significant degree of punishment to exist in honor offenses while not making the honor system any more complex than it is. Secondly, this change would not bear the danger that future courts, unfamiliar with the reasonsHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

For the change, might use this power of recommendation unwisely, for the faculty is under no obligation to accept the recommendation of the Court if it does not think it wise. Thus a system of check and balance will exist between Court and faculty, guaranteeing continuity of procedure in the long run. Furthermore, in the past, the Honor Court has been faced on two occasions with a case in which dishonesty was involved but in which extenuating circumstances were such that the Court did not feel justified in levying full punishment for an honor offense on the student involved. In both cases, the Honor Court was forced to try unconstitutionally the student under the student body regulation clause of "conduct unbecoming to a Davidson Gentleman," in order to levy a just punishment.

WIDER LATITUDE

The adjustment in faculty rules suggested above would eliminate the necessity of this ambiguous action in the future. The Honor Court feels that this change in the dismissal rule would not in any way weaken the honor system, for a student convicted of an honor offense with recommendation for readmission after one year would still have the stigma of an honor offense on his record, even if he was readmitted; and secondly, even with the recommendation of the Court, he has no assurance that he would be readmitted by the admissions committee. This proposal will be discussed at the next general meeting of the faculty. In the meantime, the Honor Court hopes, through THE DAVIDSONIAN, the student council, and ODK, to generate discussion about this proposal and to try to gain some measure of student opinion concerning it before the faculty meets.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Estonian Makes Plea For Positive Action

Dear Editor:

Through the publication DAVIDSONIAN it has been raised to my attention that students in Davidson College are forming a Conservative Club. As a Free Estonian employed in a neighboring town I wish to make my opinion be known that a better way to fight Communism is to support a country which has already now fallen to their Imperialist designs. It has made my heart warm to know of such different people as Belgians, British, and Americans supporting our cause. I hope soon to organize an Estonian Freedom Fight. I watched this ers’ League in this area as well. The aim of the “Vabadus Pojaleste Liits,” as our organization in other places is known in our own language, is the end of the present enslavement of our country, and the recovery of its traditional form of government. Vigilance is the Price of Freedom, and I think students and teachers could be better Conservatives by aiding our cause more than talking about abstractions. Our motto is “Estonians of the world UNITE! You have nothing to lose but your chains!” Interested students may address me in care of General Delivery, Cornelius, N. C.

Julian Luts

NONE OF THEIR PLAYERS CAN HIT A BALL OUT OF THE INFIELD! AND THEY HAVE THIS LOUD-MOUTHED GIRL IN CENTER FIELD WHO CAN'T CATCH A THING!

Currie’s Inspired.

BY ROGER DAVID

Davidsonian Staff Writer

In reminiscing over his Davidson days, Dean Rusk fondly recalled what he said to be one of the greatest influences toward interesting him in the world political scene—the influence of Dr. Archibald Currie. One of Rusk’s most memorable visits on his itinerary was with Mrs. Currie, who remembers Professor Currie commenting years ago that the Secretary of State was a “delightful student.”

WELL LIKED

Professor Currie was liked by nearly everyone who knew him and has been remembered as one of the most popular men ever to serve on the Davidson faculty. Even at the advent of his teaching career here in 1901, he touched helpfully the lives of many. He filled his position as Professor of Economics and Political Science with honor and pride. Professor Currie was a master teacher. His lectures were rich and full. Because all his political science classes were oversized, he held his classes in the largest classroom in the school. Dean Rusk is not likely to have been the only student whose life was inspired by this man. His personality was vital and forceful, not unmixed with a fine sense of humor.

WELL LISTENED-TO

Dr. McGavock commented that he remembers well the fishing trips when he accompanied Dr. Currie, who was an avid fisherman. He said, “It’s not so much that I liked fishing, but that I enjoyed his delightful personality and fascinating story-telling ability.” Mrs. Currie commented that her husband, having studied law at the University of Virginia and having had a practice, had always emphasized that every student, be he pre-med or pre-ministerial, should obtain at least a general concept of law. His superb knowledge of law, his unswerving integrity, and his dynamic personality impressed many. Dr. McGavock added, “His opinion was highly regarded both by students and by the faculty. Many were swayed by his logic.”

STUDENT LEADER

Dr. Currie also offered a peculiar citizenship value to the community. Essentially, however, he belonged first of all to Davidson College, to its classrooms, to its student body, to its activities, and to its progress and wise development. His affiliation with the College began in 1893, when he entered Davidson as a student. Even while a student, his leadership potential was recognized in that he was student body president, editor of the Davidsonian and the annual, Phi Beta Kappa, and ODK. Dr. Currie served as Dean of the College for five years, for which he received no salary. He is quoted to have said, “It was a labor of love.” And Mrs. Currie added, “Dr. Currie loved all his students.”

Maidens Muddle In Mud Motivated By Lost Marbles

BY GREG GOVAN

Davidsonian Feature Writer

The psychology department was probably in on it. After all, Dr. Kelton was a participant himself (probably to allay suspicion), and Dr. Workman was in the stands for the whole thing. What a perfect experiment! Just picture a football field full of femme fatales, the essence of grace in bermudas and baggy sweatshirts. Around them, the quarry. But, alas, the goal is snatched away at the moment of possession. It seems that said girls must perform certain tasks before left to the covert pursuit of the innocent Davidson gentleman. And this is where the psychology department comes in.

SECRET EVENT

So after the eggs, the chickens, the cups of water, the pies, and the rapid exchange of clothing, a supreme frustration was yet to be overcome. For when the covers were withdrawn from that suspicious-looking container, six chic ladies from Queens saw a savory collation of the thickest mud to be seen anywhere except for the fraternity court walk. Within this diabolical contrivance were three marbles. Bare handed, the young damsels had to find them. At this juncture, one girl moaned, “I’m turning in my pin.” But at the starting signal, twelve eager hands plunged into the goo, gingerly at first. It wasn't long before all were up to their elbows, prodding, squeezing, stirring. Dismay was on every face, except for the psychologists, and the audience.

ONE MARBLE

At last one marble was found. Its proud discoverer raised the trophy high with dripping, gummy hands and arms. Ten arms now were digging more vigorously, in a frantic moment, decorum was shattered: “Oh, Hell.” It was beautiful. But it produced no marbles. To keep interest from lagging, the judges poured in some more marbles, squelched an attempt to grab these prizes, and then began to agitate the mixture with, appropriately, hoes. Another “go” signal and they were at it again. The search for the elusive marbles continued until, caked and coated, the girls were ready to throw in the towel, and the judges if any happened to be near. At long last, for the contestants, the ordeal was over.

STAGE REGRESSION

As a Davidson teammate approached to console and comfort, he was greeted with a warm, if slightly soggy, handshake. Free access to water was immediately provided. Well, it was over. The happy throngs paired off and went to listen to Bob Waugh. And the psychology department? Well, of course there is no proof, but why would anyone take notes at such an event? If introductory classes a few years from now hear about an experiment involving extreme social frustration, ego devaluation, and forced regression, you may have seen it taking place. Sigmund would have liked it; the spectators sure did.

“Evening” Features Anti-Plays

BY DON STOWELL

Davidsonian Staff Writer

Avant-garde theatre will be well represented by Samuel Beckett’s Krapp’s Last Tape and Arrabal's Picnic on the Battlefield in “An Evening of Diverse Drama” to be presented by The Vagabonds next week. Picnic on the Battlefield shows a Sunday afternoon with a soldier, his parents, and a prisoner, who have a perfectly lovely picnic in the midst of bombs and battle. This farcical-serious comment on war is made in terms of the sane (insane) world of the creators of war and the insane (sane) one of those childish enough to believe war unnecessary. One actor and a tape recorder are employed in Krapp’s Last Tape, by the author of Waiting for Godot and Endgame. The 69-year-old Krapp, who has a propensity for bananas, bosoms and booze, listens to a tape recording he made 30 years earlier and tries to record what he has learned in the meantime. These two plays, by their use of simple and serious themes in farcical, comical, and unconventional terms, are typical of the “anti-plays” and “absurd” drama of Beckett, Ionesco, Richardson, Pinter and Albee. Picnic on the Battlefield is included in the “Theatre of the Absurd,” which is currently playing off-Broadway, while Krapp’s Last Tape enjoyed an off-Broadway run of almost two years. Also to be presented on the same bill are Aria de Capo by Edna St. Vincent Millay and Lithuania by Rupert Brooke. The world of the harlequin stage, where comedy and tragedy get confused, is the setting of Aria da Capo, while Lithuania is a chilling tale of psychotic horror and suspense. Both plays are somewhat more conventional. This evening of one-act plays will afford a unique opportunity to see the newest in dramatic technique side by side with a more traditional approach to the theatre.

Labor Of Love

Many Students sized, he held. his classes in the largest classroom in the school. Dean Rusk is not likely to have been the only student whose life was inspired by this man. His personality was vital and forceful, not unmixed with a fine sense of humor.

DR. ARCHIBALD CURRIE

Dr. McGavock commented that he remembers well the fishing trips when he accompanied Dr. Currie, who was an avid fisherman. He said, “It’s not so much that I liked fishing, but that I enjoyed his delightful personality and fascinating story-telling ability.” Mrs. Currie commented that her husband, having studied law at the University of Virginia and having had a practice, had always emphasized that every student, be he pre-med or pre-ministerial, should obtain at least a general concept of law. His superb knowledge of law, his unswerving integrity, and his dynamic personality impressed many. Dr. McGavock added, “His opinion was highly regarded both by students and by the faculty. Many were swayed by his logic.”

STUDENT LEADER

Dr. Currie also offered a peculiar citizenship value to the community. Essentially, however, he belonged first of all to Davidson College, to its classrooms, to its student body, to its activities, and to its progress and wise development. His affiliation with the College began in 1893, when he entered Davidson as a student. Even while a student, his leadership potential was recognized in that he was student body president, editor of the Davidsonian and the annual, Phi Beta Kappa, and ODK. Dr. Currie served as Dean of the College for five years, for which he received no salary. He is quoted to have said, “It was a labor of love.” And Mrs. Currie added, “Dr. Currie loved all his students.”

---