‘CATS PLAY FIRST CONFERENCE GAME (See Page Three) RICHARDSON SCHOLAR DISCUSSES SOCIALISM (See Page Two)

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College ~~ DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1962 NUMBER TWO

Martin Waves Big Stick At Academic Laziness

President Explains Horton’s Departure For Year's Study In U. S.

“Even though a student may have barely complied with the minimum academic requirements, he may be given a leave of
absence for one year if it appears that he has made no real scholastic effort,” stated President Martin to THE
DAVIDSONIAN earlier this week.

Once again foreign students have come to study on the Davidson campus. This year there are seventeen students from fifteen
countries on four continents.

Jan Erik Lennart Bergstrand comes from Sweden. He will study business and economics and will enter the University of Lund
on his return to Sweden. While at Davidson, he is associated with SAE. Jan enjoys hiking, cycling, and running.

KA is host to Giuseppe (Peppino) Cipolloni of Perugia, Italy, while he is at Davidson. He will make a career
of law and diplomacy; here, he will study political science, entering law school at the University of Pisa on his
return home. Peppino plays basketball and soccer, and enjoys swimming, skating, and skiing.

From the Soro Academy in Denmark, Christian Faber-Rod, after studying a year at Davidson, will return home. There, he will
perform his military service and then will study law. Christian participates in handball, football, tennis, and swimming.

Both Faber-Rod and Guido Friedl, of Vienna, Austria, are associated with Phi Delta Theta while at Davidson. Guido has studied
at the University of Vienna and has completed one year of military service. He participates in basketball, fencing, skiing, track,
swimming, and marksmanship. Guido plans a career in diplomacy and foreign service.

Robert Hendrick Gerritsen (Rob) of the Netherlands, is completing his secondary schooling this year. He plans to teach English. Associated
with the Pika’s here this year, Rob participates in volleyball, swimming, and basketball.

The Sig Eps are hosts to Akio Kinugasa of Osaka, Japan. Since 1959, he has studied at Kansei Gakuin University
School of Business. He is interested in studying Business Administration in the United States and in Japan.

From La Serena, Chile, Erwin Jorge Landsberger comes to Davidson on a joint Richardson-Chan Gordon Scholarship. The first student from
Chile to attend Davidson, Erwin will study economics and business. He is associated with ATO during his year here.

Byoung Young Lee from Korea wishes to study economics at Davidson. His father was a graduate of Davidson. Studying to
be a doctor, Benoit comes to Davidson on a scholarship from the Board of World Missions of the Presbyterian Church.
From Switzerland comes Jean-Jacques Pahud. He is associated with Sigma Nu.

Davidson Hosts Scholars

Reynolds, Otts Lectures Feature Noted Speakers

The Reynolds and Otts Lectureships will make possible the visits of five noted speakers to Davidson this year.

The Otts Lectureships will bring to the campus Dr. Nels F. S. Ferre, Professor of Christian Theology at Andover Newton
Theological School in Boston on Sunday, Nov. 4. Dr. Ferre will give a total of four talks including vespers. Among
the many books he has written are: Search-Lights on Contemporary Theology, Faith and Reason, and The Christian Understanding of God.
The topic that concerns him most at present and the one he plans to devote most of his time to
at Davidson is “The Finality of Faith.”

Following Dr. Ferre will be Dr. Nelson Glueck, the first of four speakers in the Reynolds Lecture Series. Glueck is
a rabbi, Biblical scholar, and a world-renowned author and archaeologist. He is the discoverer of King Solomon's copper mines and
Solomon’s port on the Red Sea, Ezion-geber. In research for his latest book, Rivers in the Desert, he spent ten
seasons in the Negev.

Davidson Debaters Plan Tough Season

On Oct. 19-20, Davidson's debaters will host seven other North Carolina debate teams at the annual “Early Bird” tournament here,
providing a chance to stretch their wings before the debate season begins in full.

“We are fortunate in that all returned this year,” Prof. Joseph T. Drake, coach for the varsity debaters, remarked. “In
addition, I expect that we'll have enough competent freshmen to add two four-man teams to our group—the freshmen appear to
be quite capable of developing into successful speakers.”

Drake noted that extra emphasis will be placed on forensic activities this year, such as persuasive, extemporaneous, and after-dinner speaking.
Other probable events include a varsity meet at Old Miss.

Dr. George Gamow will visit the campus on Nov. 26-27. Dr. Gamow is the author of many books including Atomic
Energy in Cosmic and Human Life and Creation of the Universe. He is now Professor of Physics at the University
of Colorado.

The final two Reynolds Lecturers will be Dr. Wendell M. Stanley in February and Dr. Gilbert Highet in March. Dr.
Stanley is a Nobel Prize-winning biochemist from the University of California, and Dr. Highet is Professor of Classics at Columbia
University.

The Otts Lectureships were established in 1893 for the purpose of bringing outstanding theologians before the student body. Normally they
come every other year. Lectures have been delivered by Dr. George Buttrick, Seminary President James I. McCord, and Professor Paul
Lehman in addition to many others. Some of these lectures, including those by former Princeton Seminary President John A. MacKay,
have been published.

The Reynolds Lectureships are made possible by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation which, in 1959, provided for four or five
lecturers a year to visit two or three days each. Under this program to date we have had Dr. Archibald
MacLeish, Dr. Arnold Toynbee, Dr. Harlow Shapley, Dr. Henry Peyre, and Secretary of State Dean Rusk.

ROTC Officers Announce Commanding Staff

The ROTC Department has announced the commanding staff of the cadet corps for the first semester and the results of
summer camp. Last Tuesday Cadet Col. Samuel S. Clark, III assumed command of one of the largest cadet corps in
the history of Davidson College. The Commander will be supported by his staff which includes Lt. Col. Hamilton E. Russell,
Jr., Executive Officer; Maj. John S. Rutherford, S1; Maj. David H. Herbertson, S2; Maj. Lawrence M. Kimbrough, S3; and Maj.
Comann P. Craver, Jr., S4. The commander and his staff were chosen for their positions based on their performance at
summer camp and MS III class standing.

Davidson students again compiled an excellent record at the Fort Bragg Summer Camp. Of the 24 colleges and universities represented,
Davidson sent the second largest group of cadets. 46% of our cadets qualified as ‘expert’ with the M-1 rifle and
over 39% ranked in the top one-third of their companies. Most important, 42 of the 132 students who attended camp
were recommended for Distinguished Military Student.

This year the ROTC department has added three new members to the staff. Sfc. Jackie G. Hughes, last stationed in
Heilbronn, Germany, will replace Sgt. Gregory as supply NCO in February. Sfc. John A. Cothran works in operations and is
classified as an assistant instructor. Capt. Charles C. Partridge, previously assigned to Fort Bliss, Texas, will administer the Army Aviation
Flight Training program and coach the ROTC rifle team as well as serve as instructor for the MS II's.

Lingle Manor Increases Membership With Frosh

BY JIMMY DOWNEY Davidsonian Staff Writer

With the addition of ten freshmen, Lingle Manor presently numbers fifty-seven members. As a new organization, it claims to be
Davidson’s unique, democratic social group. Lingle Manor was organized a few months. Walls and ceilings have been repainted, fits. Section
One of Article One of the manor constitution opens, founded by Byoung Lee’s family. While here, he will be associated
with Sigma Nu. Beta Theta Pi will host Jonathan Brian Lewis of Lymington, Hants, England. A graduate of Wycliff College,
John participates in tennis and Rugby. He hopes to enter Reading University. Also from England, Geoffrey Peter Frederick Mortimer Luckock
of Dorset will be associated with the Phi Gam’s this year. A graduate of Wellington College, Berks, Luckock plans a
business career.

Benoit Nzengu of the Congo got his schooling at the Institut Medical Chretien du Kasai at Lubondai under two Davidson
graduates. Studying to be a doctor, Benoit comes to Davidson on a scholarship from the Board of World Missions of
the Presbyterian Church. From Switzerland comes Jean-Jacques Pahud. He is associated with Sigma Nu.a graduate of the Gymnasium of Lausanne,
and has been attending the University of Lausanne. Pahud is planning to be a teacher. While at Davidson, he associated
with Sigma Nu. Franklin Victor Pfeffer from Uruguay has been a student at the University of Montevideo, where he participated
in soccer. He is the son of a lawyer and is interested in economics and sociology. Here, he will be
associat- ed with Norway. Saxholm enjoys skiing, swimming, and gymnastics.

Continued On Page Four

selected from a group of more than 1000 applicants. The college was forced to turn down

Club Internationale Turns Union Into French Riviera

Ever dream of an evening in Paris? Rome? London? Harken ye! The Morrison Room of the Student Union will be
the scene of an evening of dining, dancing, and club entertainment once monthly under the sponsorship of Club Internationale. These
evenings will feature the flavor of different countries in an atmosphere of cordiality and ease. The Club Internationale will journey
to France and the French Riviera next Friday, from 6-10 p.m. for an evening spiced with the flavors of Paris.
Upon entering the room each couple will be greeted by a resplendent, French-speaking head waiter and escorted to a reserved
table where the choice of a main course of a lobster or steak plate awaits the order. Music, ranging from
the soft styles of the Miller era to the pulsing beat of a Latin American melody and the popular beats
of modern America, will be provided by a band and the guests will be entertained in the true club fashion
by top performers. Cokes and cigarettes are free throughout the evening. Reservations are available for a maximum number of 40
couples at $5 per couple. These reservations are available now at the Union desk. Parties up to eight can be
seated together.

Carrell Announces Committee Posts

Seventeen committee appointments were made at the weekly meeting of the Student Council held Wednesday night in the Student Union.
President Danny Carrell named the following to committee seats: Academic and Non-Academic Committee, John Killian; Financial Committee, Ken Kelley; and
Larry Kimbrough; Athletic Council, Joe Ansley and Bob Cordle; Religious Life Committee, Joe McCutchen; Artists’ Series Committee, Pat Douglas; Traffic
Court Observer, John Spratt; Foreign Student Committee, Ken Kelley as chairman, John Spratt and Hill Wellford; NSA Committee, John Spratt
and Fred McGuirt; Assembly Program Committee, Danny Carrell, chairman, Tommy Stafford and Spud Stewart.

When asked to elaborate on the conditions surrounding the recent administrative changes in the office of alumni and public relations,
Martin explained that the persons involved had been notified last spring of the college's intention to combine the Office of
Development with that of Alumni and Public Relations. John Horton, who was at that time serving as acting director of
the alumni office, was asked to become assistant dean of students. Horton declined the position. Horton had been with the
college for four years. While Horton was designated in college publications as director of alumni and public relations, he was
on an acting basis. His position with the college was renewed each year. His status was such that unless his
contract was extended it would terminate at the year's end.

On the topic of the new cut system, Martin commented that the new policy was enacted by the faculty so
that the initiative in this area could be placed more squarely on the students. He emphasized that the 25% limit
that has been in effect since the founding of the college was still a part of the absence regulations, and
that any cuts in excess of this 25% limit would bring a failing grade in the particular course overcut.

With the new Lake Norman nearing completion, THE DAVIDSONIAN questioned Martin as to the policy of the college concerning fraternity-owned
facilities on the lake. He explained that the college has never permitted fraternity ownership of houses or property and that
this would apply to lake locations as well. He indicated that the college is presently underway with a project to
develop a swimming and recreational area on the lake. This will be owned by the college and will be considered
part of the campus, which would mean that all campus regulations will apply, including those concerning the use of alcoholic
beverages.

On May 4, 1962, although plans had been on the drawing board since February. In that month a faculty-fraternity report
seemed to indicate the need for a non-exclusive social organization. At the time of the introduction of the new social
group to the campus, almost fifty students committed themselves to its support, thus becoming the charter members. The college itself
gave substantial assistance to get the new group started. With the college’s donation of the Lingle Manor (a former possession
of Dr. Lingle, a distinguished Davidsonian) and a sizable monetary grant, the manor group was able to begin repairing and
redecorating the house which is just west of Richardson Dorm. Much work has been done on the building in the
past months, with most rooms undergoing rigorous repair work. The two front rooms of the Manor have been completely redecorated
with new furniture, financed by the college grant. The Manor will be equipped with a television, ping-pong equipment, and a
stereo set for members’ use and enjoyment. Social recreation is thus provided for anyone who is a member. The present
officers are fully convinced that this organization is Davidson’s unique answer to the need for a nonselective social group on
campus. Prevented from ever becoming a fraternity by its own constitution, Lingle Manor seeks to provide social activities and companionship
for any Davidson student who seeks such benefits. The manor is its center of activity.

The present officers of Lingle Manor are Rodger Durham, president; Neal Bushoven, vice-president; Bob Llewellyn, secretary; Jim Weber, treasurer; and
Rufus Hallmark, membership chairman. A student need only pay an initiation fee of ten dollars to become a member, and
a six-dollar fee per semester for continued membership. A student may thus join or resign the group at any time.
At this time plans are being made for Homecoming Weekend, although no definite arrangements have been made. Lingle Manor plans
to present a social activity for each special weekend throughout the year.

THE CONSERVATIVE MIND — Russell Kirk answers questions after his lecture this week. A prolific writer, Kirk is regarded as
the philosopher of American conservatism.

President Of YMCA States Year’s Plans

BY STAR EVINS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Neil Nichols, president this year, has given THE DAVIDSONIAN a sneak preview of some of the activities which the “Y”
has planned. One of the most exciting of these activities is the “Book of the Year” event which brings a
prominent author to the Davidson campus to discuss one of his books and to mingle with the students. This has
proven successful with such authors as Leon Uris, who wrote “Exodus,” and Archibald MacLeish, the author of “J. B.,” coming
to the campus. This year Bill Ferris is in charge of this “Y” project. Although the YMCA does sponsor some
events such as the Book of the Year and voluntary chapel, it is primarily a service organization and it invites
all students to donate some leisure time to one of their projects. The “Y” provides opportunities for Davidson students to
conduct senior high fellowships, help in the Pop Warner Football program, and conduct worship services in the nearby churches. Many
of the upperclassmen have an opportunity to help conduct the freshman orientation program. Neil Nichols stated, “any of the activities
of the ‘Y’ provide an outlet for the Davidson student to make worthwhile use of part of his leisure time
through service to his fellow students and the residents of the Davidson community.”

Last year 50 percent of the student body participated in at least one of the “Y’s” activities; and Nichols expressed
a desire that there would be the same amount of participation this year. He stated, “the activities of the ‘Y’
provide an outlet for the Davidson student to make worthwhile use of part of his leisure time through service to
his fellow students and the residents of the Davidson community.”
