FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1962 THE DAVIDSONIAN

BY STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

“Our boys really want this one!” proclaimed Coach Lefty Driesell as he talked about tonight’s clash between his Davidson five and Belmont Abbey in Charlotte’s Park Center at 8 o'clock. Driesell's resurgent Wildcats, who have conquered their last 6 foes, would like nothing better than to make the highly regarded Crusaders their 7th straight victim.

ANOTHER LINK
The most recent link in the victory chain was added this past Tuesday night in Spartanburg, S. C., where the Wildcats built up a 17-point halftime lead, and then coasted home for a 74-55 win over Wofford. Applying a full court press at the opening tipoff, Davidson forced the erratic Wofford ball handlers into costly mistakes, and rang up a 19-3 lead before the frustrated Terriers could score a field goal. High man for Davidson was again Bill Jarman, whose 9 goals gave him 18 points before fouling out. D. G. Martin turned in another stellar defensive performance, and the Wildcat captain tossed in 15 points. Sophomore Terry Holland contributed 12 markers.

POWERHOUSE
Coach Al McGuire’s Belmont Abbey unit has acquired a reputation as a small college powerhouse in recent years. Last year the small Catholic school was ranked among the nation’s best in the small college ranks. Despite heavy graduation losses, this year’s Abbey contingent is again strong. Paced by Bernie Brennan, hard-driving guard, and Joe McDermott and Bill Ficke, big men, who can score and rebound with consistency, the Crusaders have compiled an 8-2 record. “They're not any taller than us,” commented Joe Hunt, Wildcat coach, “but they have a lot more meat on them.”

HAIL, JARMAN!
An unidentified Alabama player (outstretched arm) appears to be saying as Wildcat ace BILL JARMAN (No. 10) drops in an easy two in the ‘Cats 73-67 trouncing of the Tide. (Davidsonian Photo by Joe McCutchen)

Sideline Comments
By STEVE CLARK

FORMER WILDCAT RUSK FOLLOWS TEAM
Just prior to the Davidson-George Washington basketball game back in December, Lefty Driesell and his men received the following telegram:

Dec. 11, 1961
Dean Rusk
Secretary of State
Good luck to you and members of team in tonight's game. I will be looking for Davidson’s scores in win column this season.

Mr. Rusk didn’t find Davidson in the win column in the next morning’s paper as the Colonials thumped the ’Cats, 95-77, but Driesell sent a letter of thanks anyway. Monday morning Driesell received another note from the famous Davidson graduate. This time he was congratulating the team for the win over The Citadel. Rusk was captain of the Davidson basketball team in 1931. When he comes to the campus on February 22, Driesell plans to take him to the gym to watch the squad workout. Perhaps the former athlete and Rhodes Scholar will have a few words of inspiration for an already fired-up band of Wildcats.

WIN STREAK PRESENTS PROBLEMS
For the first time in a long time, the seating capacity of Johnston Gymnasium is presenting a problem. The recent surge by the basketball team has caused an increase in attendance. In four games, attendance has averaged about 1800 per game. This increase is presenting somewhat of a pleasant problem for Dr. Tom Scott and his staff down in the athletic department. The seating capacity of the gym is listed at 3000. However, there were 2000 people at The Citadel game, and we don’t know where an additional thousand would have sat. It would have been like a can of sardines. If the interest in basketball continues to rise around here (and after watching the freshman and varsity teams in action, we don’t see why it shouldn’t), some extra stands are going to have to be thrown up somewhere in the small confinements of Johnston Gym. And while they’re building more seats, why not install a new scoreboard? The clock on the present one is deceiving as the devil. Even from the stands it is hard to tell the exact time remaining. Imagine what it’s like from the court where a man is poking his fingers in your eyes. Bill Jarman, Wildcat scoring ace, suggests, “We definitely need a new clock. That would be a good project for some club or group on campus.” Incidentally, the present clock was a gift from the class of 1949. Getting back to the attendance splurge, Driesell and the team are all for it. Says the young mentor, “Support has been real good so far. The boys and I really appreciate it. I just hope the students keep it up.” And we hope you and the boys keep up the winning ways, Mr. Driesell.

Davidson Basketball Team
Fort Myer Post Gymnasium
Fort Myer, Va.

Hish Entertain VPI's Aces Today
The Davidson swimmers hung their undefeated record on the line this afternoon, when they entertained VPI in the local pool. It was the first conference outing for the mermen, who dunked Appalachian and Clemson in their first two outings. The Tech swimmers are considered one of the two best teams in the conference along with VMI. They were very impressive in their earlier meet against William & Mary. The best of the Gobblers include the following contenders for conference honors: Mike Stener, backstroke ace; Tommy Tomlinson; Steve West; and Jim Grossman, holder of the conference’s 100-yd. and 200-yd. breaststroke records. Dwight Shoe, Wildcat mentor, stated, “We're in fine condition, but we're lacking in depth, and the rest of the season is going to be an uphill grind.” Led by Carter Mebane, distance events; Tom French, backstroke; and Captain Stefan Young, breaststroke, the ‘Cat swimmers were in hopes of surprising the favored boys from Blacksburg. Other Davidson hopefuls include Bill Ambrose, John Baum, Roy Alexander, Bud Fry, John Rankin, Bob McDonald, Deats Van Der Zee, and Charlie Shapard. Diving, perhaps the strongest point on the Davidson team, is supplied by three better-than-average divers in Dick Fromm, Dan King, and Bill Whittington. A strong Davidson freshman team, led by John Alexander, Jim Grey, and Purk Purkenson, will not have another meet until February 5, when they travel to The Citadel with the varsity.

Indoor Tracksters Prep For VMI Relays
BY JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Though partially riddled by reviews and pre-exam studies, the indoor tracksters got off to what Coach Heath Whittle terms “a strong start” on Monday. Looking over the forces that did muster, the veteran Davidson mentor sees promise for a good season, however, at the same time he cites a rigorous schedule. The 'Cats first meet, for instance, will be the VMI relays on February 3. The competition will run the gauntlet from such stiff stalwarts as Navy and Maryland to the best of the Southern Conference participants—Furman and VMI. Later the winter trackmen will cast their lots in the annual Southern Conference Meet, the non-conference division of the Atlantic Coast Conference Meet, and the Big Five Meet (N. C. State, Duke, Wake Forest, UNC, and Davidson). To encounter such rigorous competition, Whittle is depending on his relay team of John Harris, Bob Cordle, Ken Kelley, and John Sharpe. Also, Cordle and Kelley will bolster the 'Cats in dash and hurdle events, respectively. In field events, Whittle is looking for support from Keith Fraser in the high jump. Whittle also reports a promising crop of freshmen, led by Terry Williams, Chester Davis, Tommy Hefner, and Denny Phillips.

Frosh Show Potential
Sizzling Cats Risk Streak Against Belmont Abbey TonightHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

them." Ficke and McDermott even at 6-6, and both weigh well over 200 pounds. Assistant stand Hunt scouted the Abbey when they rolled over Presbyterian 88-71. "They're a strong, well-balanced ball club," admits Hunt.

FANS BUBBLE

There are several reasons for the Wildcats’ recent success, which has students and fans bubbling with an enthusiasm bordering on a state of ecstasy. The main reason is Jarman, who is still the team’s most consistent scorer. The 6-5 redhead is pouring the ball into the hoop at a 23.9 clip—2nd in the Southern Conference. Fortunately, Holland has taken some of the early season load off Jarman's shoulders recently. The 6-7 sophomore has a 17.1 average—10th in the conference.

ERRY HOLLAND, 6-7 Wildcat sophomore, ranks in the top ten in every major department of conference cage statistics. The Southern Conference statistics released at the beginning of the week show that Holland ranks in the top ten in every major individual statistic. The 6-7 forward, this week's "Wildcat of the Week," is listed as being 10th in scoring with a 17.5 average; 10th in field goal percentage; and 3rd in rebounding with 9.8 per game. The most elated person over Holland’s success is, naturally, Lefty Driesell. Driesell knew all along that the Clinton, N. C., native would have to come through if this year’s Wildcat five expected to do anything at all.

Perhaps the recent surge can be contributed to Martin more than anyone else. The 6-3 senior forward has been all over the floor on defense by going after the ball in a way that would put a gleam in any football coach's eyes.

Following the Belmont Abbey game, the ‘Cats take a “break” for semester examinations. After the exam period, Erskine will be in Johnston Gymnasium on Thursday night, February 1. On Saturday, February 3, Davidson travels to Williamsburg, Va., for a conference battle with William & Mary.

WILL IT DROP? wonder Davidson and Alabama players alike as they gaze at TERRY HOLLAND’s (No. 42) jump shot. It did, as did most of the Wildcats’ shots in their third victory of a present six-game winning streak. (Davidsonian Photo by Joe McCutchen)

Loop’s Bullies, VPI, Visit Local Mats

By IGEN Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's wrestlers take a 3-2 record onto the mats tonight when they meet VPI’s Gobblers in Johnston Gymnasium. The freshman match starts at 7 p.m.; the varsity begins at 8 p.m. VPI, defending champions of the Southern Conference, are depicted by Coach Charlie Parker as being “tougher than anybody we have met so far.” They have lost only one match so far this year—to Navy.

The local matmen suffered their second loss of the season Tuesday night, bowing 25-6 to a tough Citadel team at Charleston, S. C. Making the trip to Charleston without many of their regular starters (including Ben McCoy, Jim Alexander, Tom Wright, and Ken Barger), the Wildcats could do little more than take victories in two weight classes from the Bulldogs.

Parker praised some of the freshmen wrestlers highly. He mentioned Mike Bizzard, 123-pounder, who is the only undefeated freshman this year. Bizzard has a 3-0 record. The coach also referred to Joe Parker as “the freshman we're really looking for help from next year, although he has not wrestled any this year because of a broken ankle.”

The results of the match were as follows: 123—Jasinski (C) won by forfeit; 130—Barcello (C) defeated Wray; 137—DiMillio (C) defeated Dobbins; 147—Glasgow (D) defeated Willard; 157—Hartsell (C) defeated LeDoyen; 167—Stork (C) defeated Brown; 177—Crisman (C) defeated Day; and heavyweight—Walls (D) defeated Reiney.

Parker is optimistic about the team’s chances for the remainder of the season, and states, “The team is doing okay, and if we can get all our men back together after exams, we have a good chance of winning the rest of our matches.”

Furman And Cats

Jerry Smith maintains a small margin over Davidson's Bill Jarman in the race for the Southern Conference individual scoring lead, statistics show. The Paladin’s junior has a 26.5 mark, while the Wildcats’ junior is 23.9.

In other individual departments, Davidson and Furman players are also the pace setters. In field goal accuracy, Jarman is top man with a 55.9 percentage, while in free throw activity Davidson's Terry Holland leads all others with an 85.9 mark. Gerald Glur of Furman tops all rebounders with a 17.8 average.

In team statistics, West Virginia is the leading offensive team with 83.2 points a game, and the Mountaineers are the stingiest team also with a defensive average of 70.3. VPI has the best field goal percentage (43.9); Davidson the best free throw percentage mark (77.3); and West Virginia, the best rebound margin (10.6).

Davidson’s freshman cagers flexed their potentially great basketball muscles again last night by thumping Clemson, 84-68, on the Baby Tigers’ home court. Fred Hetzel paced the ‘Kitten victory with 23 points and 22 rebounds, Charlie Marcon and Dave Thomas contributed 19 points each, while Don Davidson bucketed 14. The game was played just prior to the Duke-Clemson varsity game.

So far this season the Wildkittens have displayed tremendous potential. The 'Kittens get another crack at a Southern Conference foe on January 20—Duke, here. The frosh are averaging 84.1 points a game, and have limited their opponents to 67.3 per game. Against two Southern Conference foes they have scored over 100 points—110 against Furman and 104 against The Citadel.

Fred Hetzel of Washington, D. C., leads the team with a 21.1 average. Scoring averages (not including last night's game) are as follows:

Fred Hetzel 21.1
Don Davidson 14.3
Charlie Marcon 13.5
Dave Thomas 12.1
Phil Squier 9.1
Paul Briggs 9.0
Barry Teague 4.5
Tommy White 2.8
John Barrow 1.0

TRY OUR DAILY SPECIAL LUNCHEON: CHOICE OF MEAT, TWO VEGETABLES, HOT ROLL, TEA OR COFFEE WITH DESSERT ONLY .75

WE ALSO SPECIALIZE IN PIZZA PIES

All Our Food Prepared By “JEFF THE CHEF”

ALL KINDS OF SANDWICHES
COLD DRINKS

CONNOISSEUR RESTAURANT
NORTH MAIN, MOORESVILLE

---

