CLARK CHALLENGES EDUCATED WHITE (See Page Two) 

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

‘CATS MEET WGM TOMORROW (See Page Three)

VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1962 NUMBER TWENTY-SIX

Forty In Executive Candidate Kennedy Talks As ODK Selects Eleven

ODK, national leadership fraternity, chose twelve in its spring tapping Thursday morning in chapel. David Gilmore, president, presided and commissioned the tapping of the following men: Danny Carrell, Bob Cordle, Harold Fisher, Ken Kelley, Bob Llewellyn, Mike Owen, Tom Patrick, Bill Pruitt, Johnny Rogers, Dr. Brad Thompson, and Lou Zirkle. John P. Kennedy, Democratic candidate for Congress from the North Carolina 8th District, was the guest speaker and was tapped into the fraternity.

Forty executives, professional men and civic leaders from all over the nation are returning May 11-13 for a Davidson College “Executive Weekend” of study in the humanities. The subjects with which they will wrestle for two days are: “Science... Sovereign, Slave or Citizen”—under Dr. Locke White, Jr., professor of physics and former director of the Southern Research Institute. “The Soviet Challenge Today”—led by a native of Russia, Dr. Andrei Lobanov-Rostovsky, professor of Russian history. “Religion in Modern America”—with Dr. Earl R. MacCormac as discussion leader. Dr. MacCormac is winner of the outstanding engineer award at Yale, an ordained minister and professor of Bible and philosophy at Davidson. “The Paradox of History”—discussed under Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, professor of history and dean of the college faculty.

“The Executive Weekend is a new and growing idea among colleges and universities,” said Robert J. Sailstad, assistant to the college president and coordinator of the Weekend program. “Some schools have had such weekends for study in business or professional subjects, but this is the first one we know of in the South devoted to the study of problems in the humanities. The response has been tremendous, but the enrollment has not yet been closed.” Registration for the May 11-13 weekend begins at noon Friday. Classes end at 4:30 p.m. Saturday with the participants being invited to remain through Sunday as special guests of the college. College facilities will be open to executives (including the golf driving range, swimming pool, tennis courts, and gym.)

GHETTO MEETS — BILL PRUITT, WALTER BOST, and DON STOWELL “shoot the bull” with artist JAMES BUMGARDNER during his recent visit to the campus. Bumgardner, a pictorial artist, teaches at Richmond Professional Institute. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

Faculty Announces Fall Curriculum Revisions

Frontis W. Johnston, Dean of the Faculty, announced several changes this week in the curriculum for 1962-1963. Major alterations include the new Humanities Program, several changes in the History Department, and the addition of a Social Science Major. The Humanities Program, which will be open to freshmen in September, 1962, will meet six hours a week. In two years the student will complete nine hours credit in Bible and in English and six hours in History. The six professors participating are Drs. Daniel D. Rhodes and Max E. Polley, Professors of Bible and Religion; Dr. George Labban, Jr., Professor of Greek, representing the Classics; Dr. Richard C. Cole, Professor of English; Dr. John A. McGeachy, Jr., Professor of History; and Dr. George L. Abernethy, Professor of Philosophy.

In the History Department courses in Colonial History and American Diplomacy have been eliminated. History 73, expanded to include Southern History, will be taught by Professors Frontis W. Johnston and Malcolm Lester. A new course, The American Nation (History 53), also under Dr. Lester, will combine History 62 and History 71. The course on the Far East has been enlarged to cover two semesters (History 101, 102), and will be taught by Associate Professor Paul A. Marrotte. Next year it will be possible to earn a major in the Social Sciences, as well as in the individual departments. The requirement will be twenty-four hours from the Economics, Geography, Political Science, and Sociology Departments.

The French Department has added five seminar and tutorial courses as well as French 13-14, a one-year course having approximately the same content as 11-12 and 21-22. A second year of Russian will be offered under visiting Professor Andrei Lobanov-Rostovsky. Assistant Professor Donald W. Tucker will teach an accelerated basic course in Italian for juniors and seniors who have finished their language requirements. This fall Pre-Medical students will be permitted to include physics courses above the 13-14 level as part of their major requirement. In the English Department Humanities 13-14 and English 25-26 have been eliminated. Two courses in Literary Criticism (English 171-172) will be introduced. Music 41 and 42 have been compressed into a one-semester course (Music 41) to be offered both semesters. Freshman mathematics has been divided into two sections. Calculus and Analytic Geometry (Mathematics 15 and 16) will be offered for students majoring in math or the sciences. Mathematics 11 and 12 will be a terminal course.

BY ARCH SCALES Davidsonian Staff Writer

DANNY CARRELL, a member of Sigma Chi fraternity, will serve next year as president of the student body. He has served on the Student Council, Freshman Council, Freshman Court, and as Director of the Freshman Camp. He is a member of the Eumanean Literary Society, D-Club and the varsity basketball team.

BOB CORDLE, a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, has served on the Beaver Club. He is a history major, and is a member of the varsity football and track team. Cordle holds the C. T. Stowe Memorial Award, given to a promising athlete who is a better-than-average student, and has been a member of the Student Council for the past two years.

HAROLD FISHER has served as Business Manager of the Concert Band, historian of Phi Mu Alpha, vice-president of the Amateur Radio Club, and on the Elections Board. He is a member of the Union Film Committee, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Scabbard and Blade, the debate team, the Y.M.C.A., and has served this semester as Lt. Colonel in the ROTC Corps.

MIKE OWEN, a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, has served on the Honor Court and in the Beaver Club. He is a Physics major. He is a member of the varsity football team and TKA national honorary fraternity, Philanthropic Literary Society, and the debate team.

KEN KELLEY, a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity, served this year as first vice-president of the student body. He holds a Curtis B. Johnson Honor Scholarship and has served as a member of the Student Council, Freshman Council, and the varsity track team. He is a member of the Eumanean Literary Society and the Y.M.C.A.

BOB LLEWELLYN, a mathematics major, holds a Dana Scholarship. He is a member of the debate team, TKA national honorary fraternity, Philanthropic Literary Society, and the Y.M.C.A.

Debate Team Ends Successful Season

The Davidson debate team brought its 1961-62 season to a close Saturday, April 21, when the novice team attended a tournament at Randolph-Macon College, Ashland, Va. The college was represented by Tom Abernathy, Bill Rule, Chester Davis, and Conrad Shumadine. Participating in the tournament were ten teams representing U. Va., W.&L., V.P.I., Hampden-Sydney, Randolph-Macon, William & Mary of Norfolk, and Richmond. The Davidson team placed second with a total of 312 individual points and a 6-2 win-loss record after U. Va. with 362 points and a 7-1 record. William and Mary, with 288 points and a 5-3 record, was third. Conrad Shumadine won the second place award for individual speaker with 85 of 100 points. The first place award went to a U. Va. man with 89 points. Davis and Abernathy, with 79 and 77 points respectively, also placed high.

Davidsonian Captures All-American Honors

BY JIMMY DOWNEY Davidsonian Staff Writer

THE DAVIDSONIAN has received an All-American Honor Rating for the issues of the first semester of this year. This is the second All-American award for the newspaper in a row, the last such award being won for the second semester of last year. The newspaper was one of only two in its classification to receive this honor. Out of a total of 3700 possible points, the DAVIDSONIAN scored 3560 points, which was 160 more than the second-place newspaper. Thirty-five other newspapers were represented in the same classification. The DAVIDSONIAN took a rating of Excellent, the highest possible, in seventeen out of twenty-two categories of judging.The remaining five categories received a rating of Very Good. The grouping of the newspapers into classifications is according to the type of school, the number of students, and the frequency of issues.

For the Secretary-Treasurer Freshman Council and Secretary-Treasurer of the student body, he is a member of the varsity swimming and track teams. TOM PATRICK, who is majoring in Economics, is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega, Business-Economics Association, Spanish Club, and the Eumanean Literary Society. Patrick, a Phi Beta Kappa, received the Jervey Spanish Award and is a Distinguished Military Student.

BILL PRUITT is president of the concert and wildcat bands. He is secretary of the Amateur Radio Club and presently second in the junior class scholastically. He was chosen for the All Southern Conference Academic Team. For the next school year, he will serve as Chairman of the Honor Court.

JOHNNY ROGERS, a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, is a history major. He is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society and has served on the Honor Court. He has been a member of the Inter-Fraternity Council for two years and was recently elected president of the council for next year.

Henley Hurt, retiring president of Alpha Epsilon Delta, announced yesterday the 1962-63 slate of officers for the pre-medical fraternity. He also awarded Bob Miller the AED Sophomore Award for highest pre-med academic average in the class of '64. New officers are Bill Wallace, president; Richard Callaway, vice-president; Hank Hawes, secretary; Alec Morgan, treasurer. Carl Rust is historian and R. L. Lewis publicity chairman. The fraternity is currently conducting a financial drive in the Davidson area for the American Cancer Society. Callaway recently represented the chapter at the four-day national convention in Toledo.

Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz will head the Drama Department next year, President D. G. Martin announced recently. Prof. John Sneden, now director of dramatics, is leaving next year due to military service obligations. “Although plans have not been confirmed yet, Dr. Goodykoontz will be in charge of the drama activities for the coming year,” Dr. Martin explained. Goodykoontz will have some assistance in handling aspects such as staging and lighting as he will maintain a limited schedule of English courses in addition to his work in drama, teaching courses in modern poetry, creative writing, and Shakespearean drama. A workshop in dramatic literature will be taught by Goodykoontz this summer as a noncredit course. The course, which will include readings and presentations, is open to townspeople and high school students as well as Davidson students. The summer workshop will study plays of various types and periods: Greek drama, miracle plays, Shakespeare, Jonson, Marlowe, Restoration drama, and contemporary drama. “Most of the time will be spent acting out key scenes, and we hope to find a nucleus for the presentation of several plays during the summer which will be full dramatic performances, as well as giving several dramatic readings. This latter program depends upon the number of people interested in participating.” The fee for the workshop, which will be set later by the Drama Committee, will probably be less than for a full-credit course. The tentative schedule calls for classes to meet two or three times a week in the afternoon for the first summer session and, if there is sufficient interest, the course will be continued throughout the summer. Goodykoontz expressed hopes that the Vagabond Workshop could be developed to supplement studies in the Humanities course and in other courses concerning drama by presenting plays which are read in those classes.

The DAVIDSONIAN classification was that of a weekly paper at a four-year college with an enrollment of 750 to 1250 students. The award was issued by the sixty-sixth National Newspaper Critical Service of the Associated Collegiate Press on April 20. The ACP headquarters is at the University of Minnesota. Frank Wright, a member of the journalism department there, was the judge of the newspapers in the DAVIDSONIAN classification. One of Wright's comments on the DAVIDSONIAN work: “Superb work all around.” The papers in each group were compared with each other by the judge of that group. Taking basic considerations into account, the judge set up certain standards for the newspapers. This semester's papers will be submitted for the next judging, the results of which will be given next year by the ACP. The DAVIDSONIAN is now eligible for a special awards plaque to be awarded by the American Newspaper Publishers Association at the conference in Detroit, October 25-27.

Dr. Brad Thompson, history professor here at Davidson, received his doctorate at Harvard. He attended Williams College for his undergraduate work, graduating Phi Beta Kappa and Cum Laude. He has received the Turner Prize in American History and the G. F. Hurd Scholarship. Sigma Upsilon, a national writing fraternity, last week received third place in the Vernon Bell creative writing competition. Pruitt was selected last year to participate in the American Guild of Organists convention. He is a member of Sigma Nu fraternity.

With eleven affirmative votes, the Interfraternity Council passed a resolution Monday night requiring incoming freshmen to pay a rushing fee to offset expenses incurred during the mechanics of rush. The exact amount, though not determined, will be only enough to cover such costs as envelopes, date cards, and stamps. In other business, the Council voted unanimously to send out all bids through the Post Office during rush week. The alternative was to place in the Union a manila envelope with the freshman's name which would contain his date cards and bids. Next year’s committee assignments were also made.

At recent meetings, Westminster Fellowship and Methodist Student Fellowship elected Joe McCutchen and Tom Archibald respectively as presidents for the year 1962-63. WF also elected rising senior Keith Brenner as vice-president and program chairman, and freshman Bill Rule as secretary-treasurer. Junior Steve Gramley and freshman Wesley Truscott were elected to vice-president and secretary-treasurer's posts in the Methodist organization. McCutchen holds a McConnell scholarship, has been photographer for THE DAVIDSONIAN and Quips and Cranks, and is a member of the ROTC, Wildcat, and Concert bands. Archibald is a member of Philanthropic Society and the Vagabonds. He is vice-president of Alpha Phi Omega, a service fraternity.

Student Body President Danny Carrell and another as-yet unselected student will attend the National Student Congress this summer to help the Student Council decide next fall whether Davidson should remain in the National Student Association. Carrell announced in the Student Council meeting Wednesday evening that the annual national conference of the NSA will be held between August 19th and 30th at Ohio State University in Columbus. About 1000 delegates from the 400 member schools are expected to attend.