HOWELL SCORES STUDENT PARTICIPATION (See Page Two) 

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

CONFERENCE CLASH AT LEXINGTON, VA. (See Page Three)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1962

NUMBER SIX VOL. LI

Frosh Parents To Annual

Though the fact is somewhat disturbing to the class of '66, according to Dean Burts this year’s Freshmen Parent’s Day will not differ significantly from previous ones. “This is the fifth year of the event,” Dean Burts explained, “and really our only major change has been the addition of activities on Friday night.” This change is intended to provide for parents who have come from long distances and arrived early. This year the parents have been invited to attend the Friday night performance of “The Man Who Came to Dinner.”

This year’s Parent's Day is occurring a few weeks earlier than in previous years in order to avoid conflict with varsity football games. For this reason, the Freshman Council has been unable to conduct some of its business including electing a president, and David Meschan is serving as its representative on the assembly program.

The bulk of the operation will begin Saturday, and the preparations of the Dean of Student's office and the Freshman Council will at last have tangible results. Registration begins at 9 a.m. in the Union. Approximately three hundred and fifty parents are expected to show up. Tours will be conducted at regular intervals. Chip Sanders and his committee have drafted about twenty freshmen to point out the various places of interest on the campus. Some departments, such as ROTC, will put on demonstrations for the tours. Some parents will also attend morning classes and the faculty has been alerted to be ready for visitors.

From 12 noon to 1:45 p.m. a buffet luncheon will be served in Chambers for the freshmen and their parents. Faculty advisors are also invited to attend. Dean Burts expects a crowd of over six hundred.

At 2 p.m. an assembly program will be held. The Chapel Choir will sing, and Freshman Bill Aitken will play the organ. An opening welcome will be given by President D. G. Martin, followed by an introduction of various administrative heads. Dean Burts will then give an orientation speech for the parents. “We will try to fill them in on what is happening around campus,” the Dean said.

Following the assembly, a coffee organized by Mrs. Moore will be served outside Chambers. The rest of the afternoon there will be no official program, but seven fraternities are holding open houses. Saturday night the Union will serve a special optional supper. The day culminates with the freshman football team’s game with the Furman freshman team. The game begins at 7:30 p.m., and according to Dean Burts, “The gates of the stadium are open to all.”

Random Poll Among Frosh Reveals Violation Of Rules

BY JIMMY DOWNEY Davidsonian Staff Writer

A poll taken this week B.R. (Before the Riot) showed that some 37 percent of the freshmen were violating one or more of the Freshman Regulations. The poll, taken on a random day at a time when the freshmen were going to the Union for dinner, covered a consecutive one hundred freshmen. The violations that the poll covered were the failure to wear name tags and the prescribed beanies.

With one freshman participating in taking it, the poll indicated that the most flagrant violation was a lack of name tags. Of the 100 freshmen, only 76 had their name tags on—a 24 percent violation of the third regulation. Eight percent of the total number had neither a name tag nor a beanie, thus violating two regulations. The other five percent of the violators did have their name tags but were not wearing their beanies.

Even if the percentages were only correct to one significant figure, they would indicate a widespread disrespect for the Freshman Regulations. One freshman commented on the regulation system: “I think it’s good at first, but it gets pretty old after a while.” When asked why he himself was not wearing his nametag, he replied, “I lost it this morning.” He defended himself by saying that he was not a repetitive violator, but he seemed to feel not at all uneasy about going without it. What about greater (Continued On Page Four)

Renaissance Scholar Lectures Next Week

Dr. Fredson Bowers, an authority on English Renaissance literature, will conduct a series of lectures and readings, sponsored by the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, from Oct 24-27 at Davidson. Under the scheduling of the English department, while here, Bowers will address several English classes and groups of prospective graduate students in addition to his formal talks. His main lecture, in Hodson Hall at 8:15 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 26, will be on “Shakespeare's Art.” Having made discoveries of Shakespeare’s mind and method, Bowers will present his topic so as to interest intelligent laymen as well as specialists in the study of literature.

During the first two periods of Thursday morning, Oct. 25, Bowers will speak to combined sophomore English sections (21 C. D. and E at 8:20; F. G. and H at 9:20) in Eumanean Hall on the topic Henry IV. On Thursday afternoon at 4 p.m. in Eumanean Hall, he will read and comment on poems of Donne, Herbert, and Vaughn. The college community is invited.

Presently Bowers is simultaneously head of the English department at the University of Virginia, and Professional Lecturer at the University of Chicago. (Continued On Page Four)

TOP TABBY — Beta’s Indian-dunking wildcat took first honors in the Homecoming decorations contest. PiKa placed second with SAE third. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Student, Date Injured In Weekend Accident

BY TOM LOFLIN Davidsonian Staff Writer

Jim Melton, a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and his date, Miss Nancy Duckworth of Glen Alpine, N. C., are in Memorial Hospital in Charlotte after receiving injuries from an automobile accident at 6 a.m. Sunday. Melton and his date were traveling toward Charlotte on U.S. 21 following an after-dance party when the sophomore from Pea Ridge fell asleep at the wheel of his car. The vehicle left the highway, ran over a culvert, and overturned against a utility pole. Both of the occupants were removed unconscious through the broken windshield. The accident involving the couple occurred about two miles north of Charlotte.

Melton sustained two jaw fractures in addition to cuts and bruises. As of Wednesday afternoon, he was reported in good condition but unable to talk because of the condition of his jaw. Miss Duckworth was taken to the hospital with a fractured jaw, cuts and bruises, and possible internal injuries. She was reported in fair condition.

Dean of Students, William Workman, said that the accident would not be considered by the Student-Faculty Discipline Committee. “There is no reason for the committee to take immediate action about after-dance parties.” Workman did say that it is possible that the accident may be considered in a regular meeting of the committee. “I will not rule out the possibility that the question could be taken up because of the accident,” he concluded. “All I can say at this time is that no special meeting will be called to consider it.”

The student body elected Kimrey as the new editor of the Davidsonian. The new editor is a junior from Raleigh. He was assistant business manager for Quips and Cranks in his freshman year. He is an English-history major and an ATO. Kimrey will attend the American Collegiate Press Convention in Detroit Oct. 25-27.

Council Quietly Joins NSA Confederation

BY JOHN TODD Davidsonian Staff Writer

This week the Student Council permanently affiliated with the National Student Association. Davidson refused to associate with theorganization several years ago; however, last year the council affiliated itself with the group on a trial basis with some controversy. The annual membership fee is $30. President Danny Carrell announced that he was compiling a report to be published soon on the summer conference that he and NSA representative John Spratt attended. The NSA is a confederation of nearly four hundred college and university student governments. After being organized in 1947 at the University of Wisconsin, it helped to found the non-Communist International Student Conference, in which it still participates. A school affiliates with the association by either a student body referendum or a vote of a democratically-elected student government.

In other action, the council postponed action concerning a United Nations organization on campus but expressed interest in a UN assembly at Chapel Hill early next year. Charles Dibble and Hugh Bell reported to the council on the interim council meeting which they attended at Chapel Hill last month. They represented Davidson at the session and helped to plan the reassembly scheduled for later this year. After a short discussion, the council voted to affiliate again with the State Student Legislature next year. The legislature is composed of representatives from nearly every North Carolina college and university. Dibble and Bell were named co-chairmen of the Davidson delegation to the State Student Legislature.

Students Elect Kimrey ‘Wildcat Handbook Editor

Tim Kimrey was elected editor of the Wildcat Handbook by a 185-143 margin Thursday after chapel. Part of the work on the handbook will be done in the spring when the members of the freshman class are known and final changes made. Kimrey’s primary objective will be to make the handbook more student-oriented. “I’m going to have the students’ view of life at Davidson rather than the hill’s view... I hope that it will be more enlightening for freshmen and that information will be more readily available for upperclassmen,” Kimrey said. He added that he would try to have a new approach to the handbook and would try to be more creative, if possible. “It’s hard to be creative in this type of thing where so many basic facts have to be presented.” A student directory will be included if there are enough funds. Advertising will be used to make up the $300 cut in the budget. The editor commented that he would like to include more pictures in this year’s handbook, although they will increase the cost. He promised to change all the pictures and to scatter pictures throughout the book instead of placing them only at the heads of the different sections. “I will try to have more action shots in the sports section.” He said that the type of pictures he would add include those of student activities, faculty members, receptions, and Artist Series programs. Captions will be added to many pictures. Freshman room numbers will be included if they are available. Anyone interested in working on the handbook should see Kimrey in 110 Richardson.

IFC Proposal Sets New Financing Plan

The IFC is presently discussing a proposal to budget its finances on a semesterly or yearly basis and stop living on lump assessments of fraternities for each function as it now does. Under the basic proposal discussed by the IFC in their chapter meeting this week, each fraternity will be assessed $60 per man yearly. Payment will be made to the IFC in five equal installments spread over the year. This fee, which is subject to change as discussion continues, will cover all IFC expenses for the year, including two concerts, rush expenses, and the IFC newspaper. It will not be significantly different from the sum of uneven assessments a fraternity man now pays. Independents will be able to purchase a season ticket to all IFC functions for only $20 since the rush and newspaper expenses of the IFC don’t directly benefit them. Under this plan, Independents will be able to buy tickets for individual dance weekends and concerts at $6 and $3, respectively. Fraternity men will not have this option of paying for only the functions that they wished to attend and not buying a season ticket for all IFC functions. Still undecided are such problems as exactly how much the assessments shall be per man, whether the budget will be on a semesterly or yearly basis, and whether the IFC will continue to finance the newspaper.

Stonestreet’s Coffee Midnight Oil Moonshiners

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Seven miles from the sleeping campus, an apologetic patch of light spills into the dark and deserted highway. Stonestreet faces another pre-dawn morning, with resolute fluorescent glare. Inside the long rectangle are booths and a counter. Often there is noise: a juke-box, the rattle of dishes, the rise and fall of conversation punctuated by the outbursts of laughter which come from no other reason other than it is very late. Often there is quiet, and the sound of a textbook opening is the sound of thunder. But always there is light and coffee to save you from the sleepy night which engulfs the world.

Over the cheeseburgers and ice cream and last-minute parallel and the ever-present coffee cup, the slow and stately play of night people is acted out. As supper tapers into midnight, the flurry gradually subsides. The majority of students who will arrive come, celebrate the nightly release from study, and leave. Some 90 percent of Mason Stonestreet’s business comes from Davidson students. Mr. Stonestreet has sold only 12 cases of beer to all of them, so he estimates. They don’t go quite so far up the hill to drag from the cold cans; at Stonestreet they come to eat, to spend the long night in cramming.

There is room in the cafe to walk around, quiet enough to read, noise enough to talk and laugh. For at three in the morning, walking and reading and talking suddenly seem very important, as important as the mysterious night outside. Somebody is bound to drift back to the kitchen and find the owner and namesake drinking a Cheerwine and eating a bacon, lettuce, and tomato sandwich. They will ask why he stays open (“It pays.”), or why he runs the place on this shift (“I like it; you have to like it.”). At last, the customers give way to the bread-and-milkmen. Breakfast comes with the dawn: those who leave in the still-black hours return in the wonderful euphoria of being alive. Stonestreet, meanwhile, ends his battle with night and enters again the humdrum of day, its mysterious alter ego once more just a cafe.