Che Aavuitdsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Colleges And A Question Of Freedom

Several weeks ago Clemson College cancelled its invitation to the Rev. Dr. Albert T. Mollegen, Episcopal theologian who was to speak at the college's religious emphasis services, when two South Carolina politicians produced records of the House Un-American Activities Committee accusing him of affiliation with Communist front organizations in the 1930's. Clemson President Robert C. Edwards, in buckling to “outside” pressures and withdrawing the invitation said it might be “embarrassing” for Mollegen to appear. The Episcopal bishop has emphatically denied the “Communist” label placed on him.

This week, the Rev. David Andrews was dismissed from his position as Wesley Foundation Director at Appalachian State Teachers College at Boone, N. C. His removal by the Board of Directors of the Foundation was based on pressures arising from his passive demonstrations before the White House for the cause of Martin Sobel during Christmas season. Andrews was subsequently called a Communist by many radical protesters. He strongly denied the charges.

Last spring, another South Carolina college, Winthrop, was strongly censored by the state legislature for inviting Dr. Frank Porter Graham to the campus. He had mentioned something about the sit-in movement during his speech. The conservative politicians decree no state-supported school was to invite that “radical leftist” again.

COLLEGE MUST STAND FIRM

All these instances are enough to indicate the serious challenge which exists today to academic freedoms and individual rights. In a time of radicalism and witch-hunting, the college community especially must stand strong in providing open-minded discussion and in encouraging members of its family to speak out clearly their own convictions and views.

Clemson, Appalachian and Winthrop are examples of institutions which have succumbed to the pressures of businessmen and politicians who have closed their minds to the basic American principles. We are disturbed about the mounting “outside” pressures, but even more so at the growing number of college administrations which are giving way to them.

Anytime a college allows businessmen, politicians or financial contributors to pull the strings or control its programs or speakers or put clamps on the rights of its faculty to speak out, that college has relinquished the vital spark of a thriving liberal arts educational community.

DAVIDSON NOT EXEMPT

Unfortunately, Davidson is not exempt from such pressures either. Our physical isolation does not isolate us from the uninformed criticism, and pressures of southern constituents, and more unfortunately, even from some members of the college family itself. It is not unusual for the administration to receive questions and protests about “that Communist on your faculty.” Many would like for Davidson professors to withdraw into an ivory tower and completely dissociate themselves from the public scene. There are some both within and outside the college who would protest the stocking of the Union bookstore with “Communist” books or ‘dirty’ novels like Tropic of Cancer.

Undoubtedly, this busybody public finds nothing to protest (and perhaps much to comfort) in the college’s being host to right-wingers Fulton Lewis II, L. Mendel Rivers, and Walter Judd. One can imagine the uproar and accusations which would come if instead of the ultra-conservative line, or even in addition to it, we invited Jimmy Roosevelt, or Justice Hugo Black, or Sen. Hubert Humphrey to the campus.

BEST OF OUR KIND?

There is a strong need for leading southern colleges to speak out in defense of academic freedom, to take upon their shoulders the roles that the general public refuses to assume in keeping an open, two-sided forum of issues and in attacking this insane ultra-rightist movement which is infesting the country. Davidson calls herself the leading liberal arts college in the South and the “best of our kind in the nation.” That is presently being challenged. Need anymore be said?

An Old Twist

The time has come when it is necessary that definite steps should be taken by right-thinking students regarding the modern dance question. No longer is the ballroom a place for innocent recreation, but it has deteriorated into a rendezvous where “polite society dissipation” is at its premium. It has almost reached the point of becoming one of our absorbing social problems.

Not only is drinking running riot, but what is worse, many girls, frequently half dressed, are engaging with partners still under the influence of liquor in those modern dances conducive to impure thoughts and sensations. We tremble to think of the inevitable results. It is our belief, to speak it plainly, that a decent girl cannot afford to attend dances where such practices are permitted. Parents, especially the mothers, do not seem to sense the peril concealed in this amusement in its present state of degradation.

Should not the college men of America then rise to meet the issue? Has our ideal of womanhood and manhood reached the point where we no longer consider modesty as essential?

Surely this cannot be. Our duty, therefore, is plain. It should be our high purpose not to countenance or gaze with indifference upon the evils of modern dancing, but to do all in our power to elevate this amusement to a refined plane. In this way can we render a great service in maintaining the American standard of clean manhood and pure womanhood.

Davidson College happily does not have to contend with this form of recreation on her campus, but we do know that some of her students are like other people in that they attend dances when at home or elsewhere. It is to these that we make the plea that they enlist in the fight to raise dancing to its former standard of decency. This should be the common cause of the college men of America, for in their hands is an influence and a power that can accomplish this great service for our present-day society. As true Southern gentlemen the students of Davidson can only enlist on the side of decency and modesty.

—THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 4, 1921

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Jerdan

BUSINESS MANAGER
Gene Adcock

Associate Editors
Son ae Kuby

Photographer
Joe McCutchen

Managing Editors
BIN Hagen nts Don erroes

Sports Editor
Steve Clark

Dan Adams

Assignments Editor
Jeff Wampler

Advertising Manager
Dave Calhoun

Feature Editor
Bill Ruth

Circulation Manager
Clay Atkins

News Editor
Sam Fort

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Midwinters Warm-Ups

Rep. Judd Embraces Individual Conservatism

BY DR. JAMES G. MARTIN
Chemistry Department

The approaching visit of the Republican Representative from the 5th district of Minnesota, Walter H. Judd, is yet another triumph among the efforts of various people to ensure that there will be no lack of opportunity for the cultivation of political awareness at Davidson. The anticipated convocation of February 26 brings to our campus a most articulate and influential spokesman for the conservative faction in Congress.

Judd serves on the House Foreign Relations Committee, was U. S. delegate to the United Nations General Assembly in 1957, was congressional delegate to the 1958 Geneva Conference on Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy, and is remembered for his stirring (at least to 49.9% of the citizenry) keynote address at the 1960 Republican National Convention. Added interest derives from a 1960 report that he was privately urged upon Richard Nixon as a choice for Secretary of State, had the official poll resulted in a Republican victory.

Congressman Judd has been a prophetic and capable leader in his role as an effective anti-Communist (that he is outspokenly anti-Robert Welch is of additional significance!). On returning from his hospital in China to the United States in 1938, he tried with limited success to arouse Americans to the dangers of Japanese military expansion and to Communist subversion in China. Events have since proven his judgment. He continues to oppose diplomatic “recognition” of the “Communist regime in China” (my italics), as well as its admission to the U.N., and is thus featured along with Senators Dodd and Douglas in a recent documentary film entitled “Red China — Outlaw.”

Judd has advocated negotiating with the Communists on the diplomatic level, but rejects (with the present administration) the unprofitable approach of summitry, feeling that “open covenants ... can not be openly arrived at.”

An analysis of Judd’s voting record on roll-call votes by the 1961 Congressional Quarterly Almanac reveals an individualistic viewpoint in his conservatism. While he has supported President Kennedy's foreign policy position on 87% of the votes, he has voted against the executive position on 84% of all domestic policy bills.

Perhaps the best indication of his political philosophy was his opposition to all ten bills favoring a larger role for the federal government. On the other hand, he voted with the so-called “Conservative Coalition” only 70%, which is contrasted with at least 32 Representatives who voted “coalition” 96% or more of the time. He actively supported medical care for the aged as administered through the states. He voted for the Civil Rights Act of 1960; opposed the use of federal funds for school construction in 1961; supported the stronger Landrum-Griffin version of the labor reform bill in 1959; and voted for continuing the appropriation for the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (along with nearly everybody else), (and, lest I be pointedly misunderstood, the last vote was included at least half facetiously).

This then is not a record that can be simply written off as Neanderthal or Mossback, nor can it be blithely countered by incantations about a Fascist Right Wing. Judd is viewed herein as an enlightened conservative. He takes Communism at its word with regard to its objective being the victory of World Communism, and domestically he maintains the constitutional provisions for States’ Rights (although not at the expense of the Negro).

While it is probable that not everyone will anticipate Congressman Judd's address as eagerly as others, it is nevertheless certain that none will dispute the honor and propriety of having as our guest a most distinguished member of Congress.a most constitutional institution, the United States House of Representatives.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Willer Raps ‘Slanted Article;’ Brenner Decries ‘Holy Days’

Willer

Dear Editor:

Many times in the past, THE DAVIDSONIAN has, in my opinion, lost its sense of propriety, but never quite as it did this past Friday. You devoted five columns to a headline, which grossly misrepresented the facts. In the heading for the article on the “Integration” poll recently taken, you used an unqualified “majority” and “students.” The heading—which ran: “Majority says yes to Trustees” and “Students vote in favor of integration”—gave the connotation that a majority of the Davidson students voted in favor of integration.

MINORITY VOTED

Nothing could be further from the truth. A little quick math reveals that a mere 30 percent of the students actually voted for integration. It seems that the entire article was slanted in the direction of your recent editorials on integration. May I point out, among other things, your seeming refusal to state that only 30 percent of the students voted in favor of integration. Lee Kirby wrote in his editorial (“A Joint Behest”) that he felt the poll to be “an accurate reflection of student sentiment.” He can no more assume this than I can that the over 400 students who did not vote are against integration.

CRUSADERS VOTED

If an assumption is to be made, however, I feel that mine is the safer of the two. In my opinion, most of the students who favor integration were at the polls voting, for they always seem to take on a crusading attitude. As an editor, it is your prerogative to print what you wish in the editorials, but in the future, you should not forget your responsibility to the students who elected you by letting your sentiments slant the presentation of the news.

Ed Willer

Brenner

Dear Editor:

Thursday comes, and “Holy Day” is with us again. We stand sullenly and silently for a hymn, listen to a prayer, then relax in our chapel seats for five minutes while some professor gives a poorly prepared, superficial talk on the application of “our” Christian ethics.

ASSUME FAITH

I wonder if some of these gentlemen really know what is going through our heads, or care to trouble themselves enough to find out. They assume that all of us have polished Christian faiths and only need occasional moralistic reminders. Apparently, they have not heard of the many doubters, or of those who just don’t care about the whole religious business.

NEW APPROACH NEEDED

Chapel might be made a great institution. The student body might approach it with a positive attitude. But the main need is for speakers who have something worth saying and who can say it! If future scheduled professors can do no better than those in the past, let them decline the invitation to speak or give the students free cuts. Almost anything would be an improvement over the present third-rate cultic rites.

Keith Brenner

Five Dances, Variety Were Weekend Case

DR. W. G. WORKMAN
Psychology Department

Thirty-five years ago it was different; maybe not better, but different. There would be five official dances. Friday afternoon there was a tea-dance, referred to in the social columns as a thé dansant, that night a formal dance, Saturday morning a breakfast dance, always called a “German,” then another thé dansant, and finally a Saturday night formal dance. Between dances, there were dates for meals and after the formal dances late dates.

STAG LINE

When you had finally gotten an acceptance for the weekend, you began filling out your date’s card and your own. You reserved the first tea-dance and the last formal for yourself, and usually one or both of the late dates, and always two or three of the meals. The rest of the dates you swapped with your fraternity brothers or other friends. If you had trouble filling your date’s card with your equals, there was always a pool of freshmen to draw from. At the dances, where a prime requisite was a long stag line, at least as many stags as “drags,” breaking was most important. In addition to the card for the weekend, there was a card for each dance. You reserved the first and last no-breaks for yourself, and you swapped the other no-breaks with friends. If you were pinned, you might reserve one or two more of the usual six or seven no-breaks. Sometimes, of course, what wasn’t intended as a no-break turned out to be one. At such times, frantic glances and waved folding money might avail. If these didn’t, pity the poor freshman after the ball was over.

LOVE TRIUMPHS

You might feel a bit downcast at having to share your girl so generously, but then you were yourself being spiced by variety, and when it came to enduring blind dates (this was, of course, then as now, a two-way endurance contest) you had it made. You two were not stuck with each other. Your worst trouble came when you had filled your blind date’s card with careful variety and then you fell in love with her at the thé dansant. You had given yourself only the barest minimum of meals and dances, maybe no late dates, and now you had to have more. This could prove expensive. One group of “robber barons” had kept their cards blank for just such opportunities. For five dollars and a U-Drive-It (practically nobody had a car of his own or could get the family car) you could get one of the stags to take the date you wanted to get free from; for another five dollars you could buy the time of your new love from the brother you had inveigled into signing for her. Then, of course, for a reasonably unreasonable fee you could purchase transportation for the new situation. This sort of thing was well worth it all, unless, as I have heard happened, your new and expensive girl handed you her pocketbook as you parted at the station, and when you opened it to get her tickets out you found the lining studded with fraternity pins, filed in order and with a place reserved for yours, now new-shining on her breast.

ADVANTAGES GALORE

All of this meant, naturally, that you didn’t have to have a date to have an enjoyable or profitable (or both) weekend. You could have some mighty attractive partners for short periods, and even make money at it. There was another advantage; you could take out insurance against the lonely weekend. You could ask more than one girl, and if two came, judicious scheduling could leave each one convinced that she was the only one on your bid. If five came, you could have an appendectomy carefully timed to have you in condition, by the time of their arrival, to enjoy company or convincingly feign excruciating illness and persuade three of the five that each was your only girl, and wasn’t she lucky that you got her such a good substitute while you were suffering postoperative pains. The two that you couldn't persuade could find “No Visitors” hung on your door.

Ivey Alerts Fair Visitors To Rampant Culture Here

BY BOB IVEY

Dear Mrs. van Scott:

You have called to my attention the fact that your daughter has been invited to attend Davidson's annual Midwinters weekend. I will be happy to provide you with the information you have requested. First of all, yes, Davidson is the college of gentlemanly students. It is, as you say, The Cultural College of the South, and the Midwinters weekend is one of our cultural highlights of the year.

The weekend will include concerts by the Netherlands Chamber Choir and by a new male vocal ensemble which chooses its name from the immortal words of Alfred Noyes and the subject of its most recent composition from the very fabric from which our lovely land was created. The Friday evening performance will be followed by a lovely dance in our spacious Wildcat Ballroom. Entertainment for this phase of the night’s activities will feature such contemporary musicians as Dr. B. Brown, Count Otis van Reddingham, Lord J. Jenkins, and the Duke of Earl. Dr. H. P. Smith, noted authority on new developments in respiratory diseases who first isolated Type-R Pneumonia and B.W. Flu, was not permitted to be here as planned, because of the financial position of an agent friend.

Saturday’s concert will be followed by an evening of relaxation and learning. The students and dates will be proportioned into thirteen groups which will conduct private instruction on contemporary music, dancing, and items of similar interest. There will also be private discussion on the natural rights of man. Midwinters weekend will also see the issuing of the long-awaited copies of our fine arts magazine. I understand that in this issue the literary portion is devoted to a discussion of Biblical passages and the art portion to watercolor paintings. It will be called “Scriptures and Prangs.”

Your daughter will be housed in the beautiful Belk home. If your daughter stays out past the prescribed Davidson curfew, Mrs. Belk will put our campus police force to work immediately. Let me assure you, however, it is very seldom that Mrs. Belk performs such a duty. I know the boy your daughter is dating very well. Dave Idson is a fine young man. Yes, the Gamma Delts are very good here. In fact, they have the largest house on campus. I am certain that Agnes will have an enjoyable weekend and that she will return definitely more educated in many ways. I assure you that she will be in good hands while here, and Davidson looks forward to having her.

Yours in culture,

Mrs. Less
Supv. of Midwinters guests

Yes, as a matter of fact, Dean Rusk is an alumnus of this school. He attended Davidson and Oxford on our 4-1 plan.

PPS. Please disregard paragraphs 3-5 of this letter. Mr. Waugh Haw of the I.F.C. (Intellectuals For Culture), has just advised me that because of innumerable fluctuations in scheduling, the Davidson Concert Band will provide the entertainment for the weekend.