Che aut sonttan The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VMI GAME FIRST CONFERENCE CLASH (See Page Three)

VOL. LII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1962 NUMBER TWELVE

Pupils Voice Disapproval Of Compulsory Religion

BY JIMMY DOWNEY
Davidsonian Assistant News Editor

An overwhelming majority of the student body wants a change in the required vespers and chapel assemblies, either by abolishing or improving the present programs. Only 35 students indicated their endorsement of vespers and 101 endorsed chapel in the YMCA poll conducted Oct. 25 concerning the Davidson religious program. Opposed to that number were 177 and 226 students who wanted to abolish the required vespers and chapels, respectively. The number of students who felt that only some kind of improvement is needed in vespers was 226; in chapel, 232. However, a number of students not only marked an endorsement of one of the two services, but also indicated that the required attendance at the service be abolished.

These facts were indicated in the YMCA report to the Faculty Committee on Religious Life Tuesday, which will take the results of the poll under consideration to study the students’ opinions on the religious program. The purpose of the survey was explained by the YMCA spokesman, Bill Ferris. "This poll is a student effort to bear part of our responsibility with constructive criticism of the religious life program,” he wrote. “This poll is the result of several students’ concern for the religious program at Davidson. We submit it realizing that each of us as a student is responsible for the religious program at Davidson. If the services are not meaningful the fault is, in part, our own.”

One result of the report that the committee will consider is that 69 per cent (224 students) of those who answered the poll said that vespers was not meaningful to their life as students. But an even greater number—75 per cent (319)—indicated that the Thursday chapel periods were likewise not useful to them. Each answer on the student survey had to be qualified with a reason in order to be accepted. In the YMCA's report to the faculty committee was included a list of students’ suggestions and some random comments on chapel or vespers. The most frequent comment by students—143 times—was that required services cannot be religious. One popular idea to improve vespers was to permit substituting off-campus and morning services for the regular Sunday evening vespers (56 students suggested this); or attendance at a “cultural event” instead of vespers (32 votes). Twelve students suggested a greater variety in the ministers’ denominations, and a few called for more familiar hymns in the services.

The improvement ideas for the Thursday chapel also included familiar hymns, plus more student participation. Some students asked for better preparation of talks for the chapel programs, while 13 proposed “feature” programs. The faculty committee seemed impressed with the problem of reaching the students through a religious program, because most of the students genuinely felt that a Christian influence was not getting through to them in the present program. As a result, Chaplain Will H. Terry sent out questionnaire forms to the freshmen, asking them to submit suggested subjects or problems for future programs. He will eventually conduct this survey with all the classes.

Red-Blooded Youths To Give Their Share

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Blood will flow redder than wine on a homecoming weekend, in the basement of the gymnasium Monday and Tuesday. The occasion will be the semi-annual blood drive sponsored by the Red Cross and the Davidson College ROTC Dept. While bleeding is not as pleasant as guzzling the booze after a dance and the after-effects of a donation might not last as long as a hangover, the ROTC Department has provided a stimulus to encourage reluctant students to share a pint of their blood with the Red Cross. A free drill cut will be given Tuesday to all cadets of all ranks who donate either day between the hours of 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. The Interfraternity Council does its part, also, to see that students donate some of their life-giving substance. A new plaque will be awarded this time to the fraternity with the largest percentage of donors. Last spring the Sigma Nu’s retired the old plaque after having won it more times than any other fraternity. They had 100% contribution that spring. Both Major David R. Hampton of the ROTC Dept. and Johnny Rogers, president of the IFC, urged all students to donate on one of the two days next week. Hampton said that Davidson College could be proud of the fact that the visit of the Red Cross bloodmobile here is one of the most productive in the whole of Mecklenburg County.

The staff of nurses for the bloodletting will all be Red Cross affiliated. In addition, various volunteers from the student body will assist. Student jobs are also available, and any ROTC cadet who works will receive merits for each hour he puts in. For all people who donate the greatest gift they can give this Christmas season, the Red Cross also provides a reward that no one hopes he will get. Any blood donor or a member of his immediate family will be eligible to receive free blood from any Red Cross member hospital for six months after he gives, should an emergency arise.

Odetta Contracted To Sing Folk Songs At Midwinters

Odetta, probably the most highly-rated figure in the field of folk music today, has been contracted for a Midwinters Concert on Saturday, February 16. According to IFC President, Johnny Rogers, the contract has already been signed, and the advanced deposit has been mailed. It is paradoxical that Odetta had never given a thought to folk singing. Her first professional appearance was in the field of classics when she was cast in the West Coast production of “Finian’s Rainbow.” Since this was Odetta’s first time away from home she became very homesick. During this trying time she found comfort in music which was becoming popular at the time. It was a long hard struggle to the professional stage. Her first public appearance was a spontaneous one in “the hungry i,” after which she was hired on the spot. The offer was withdrawn, however, due to the protests of the performer then there. Later she was hired by a new night club, the Tin Angel, and performed there for a year. Her career thereafter has become much more noteworthy. She has appeared in the movies “Cinerama Holiday” and “Sanctuary.” Her reputation is well earned; Odetta is a perfectionist. She has been known to work on a song for a year before releasing it to the public. Once she has mastered a song, however, it is her own property.

Music Dept., Y Present Annual Musical Vespers

The Davidson College Department of Music and the YMCA are presenting a service entitled “A Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols” on Sunday, December 9, at 7 p.m. in the College Presbyterian Church. According to Donald Plott, director of choral music, “This is an ancient form of service for corporate worship at the Christmas season. It is widely used throughout England and the United States in schools and colleges, the earliest being King's College Chapel, Cambridge.” The service consists of nine Bible readings, each followed by an appropriate hymn. Readers will be Bob Cordle and Stewart White, both seniors. Playing in the instrumental prelude will be organist Van Quinn and the Brass Ensemble conducted by Dr. Grier M. Williams. During the prelude, the Brass Ensemble will play “From Heaven High” by Praetorius and “In Dulci Jubilo” by Bach.

Tar Heel Prof Makes Poetry Circuit Ride

Robert Watson, associate professor of English at the Woman’s College, Greensboro, will present a reading of his works next Tuesday at 8:15 in the Morrison Room. Watson was selected by the North Carolina Poetry Circuit to be one of two poets to present readings at institutions of higher learning. He is the first North Carolinian to read on the Circuit. A native of New Jersey, Watson studied at Williams College and Johns Hopkins University. He has also attended the University of Zurich as a Swiss-American exchange fellow. His first book, “A Paper Horse,” was published by Atheneum last spring. The Poetry Circuit was established in 1961 by Howard Webber, editor-in-chief of the University of North Carolina press. Schools participating in the Circuit in addition to Davidson are: East Carolina College, North Carolina State, North Carolina Wesleyan College, Duke University, University of North Carolina, Woman's College, and Wake Forest. Another poet will be presented at these schools during the spring semester.

APO To Publish Student Directory

The Davidson chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, national service fraternity, will complete a student directory and deliver it to the students before the Christmas vacation begins. With each student’s name the directory will list his room number, Post Office box number, fraternity, and home address. As an improvement over last year's directory, this one will be in booklet form. Although chartered only last spring, the members of Alpha Phi Omega have already undertaken several projects.APO serves the school and community in many other ways besides the directory. If you have ever been confined to the infirmary, then the APOs have probably helped you. They regularly run errands for the patients there. In addition to helping students here in Davidson, APO has participated in projects in other areas. The PTA town carnival owes part of its success to the students in APO. The Charlotte Plans on a campus faculty-student assembly program. Walt McNairy is APO president. Projects chairman is Tom Archibald. Head Faculty advisor Lt. Col. P. R. Wheaton is assisted by Dean of Students Burts and Prof. C. E. Ratliff.

Christmas Musical Service at the College Church Sunday evening at 7:30. "Heaven High" by Lieder and "Lo, How a Rose E’er Blooming" by Praetorius; the organist will play "Noel: Grand Jesu at Dao" by Daquin; and both will play "Noel Suisse" by Daquin. The bell Choir of the Selwyn Avenue Presbyterian Church, directed by Mrs. Stephen L. Barden, Jr. Vocal soloist will be William G. Workman, Jr. Chaplain Terry expects a "large crowd" of off-campus visitors to attend the service. Student attendance at the service is not required, and only two required vesper services remain in the semester. The Davidson Male Chorus, under the direction of Donald Plott, will present a Christmas program during chapel period on Thursday, Dec. 13. The following carols will be sung: "Coventry Carol," "Cradle Song of the Shepherds," "Lo! How a Rose E’er Blooming," "Pat-a-pan," "While Shepherds Watched Their Sheep," and "When the Saviour Christ is Born."

William G. Workman, Jr., baritone, will give a performance at 8:15 p.m. at Hodson Hall on Jan. 7. He will be accompanied on the piano by David Richey, assistant professor of music. Some of the works which will be presented are "Arias," by Mozart and Donizetti, "Lieder," by Franz Schubert, as well as works by Maurice Ravel and Aaron Copeland.

ODETTA

Council Seeks Voice On Faculty Groups
BY JOHN TODD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Student Council is seeking membership on at least four more faculty committees. They are Absence System; Building and Grounds; Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life; and Reynolds Lectureship Committees. In its regular meeting this week, the council decided to ask the respective committee chairmen to approve the idea. Speaking for the council, President Danny Carrell said, "The main reason for doing this is to have a means of channeling our ideas to these committees."

In other matters, several changes were made by substitution in the Student Council By-Laws. According to Section 10, the president of the Student Body and the Dean of Students are now ex officio members of the Financial Committee. Also, in Section 15, two members of the student body will be appointed to the Artists Series and Public Lectures Committee and a Student Council member to the Traffic Committee.

The problem of three reviews on one day was among several questions discussed at the Student-Faculty Conference yesterday. "This time maybe we can find out what's wrong," Carrell stated. Lawrence Kimbrough mentioned the possibility of opening the library on Sunday night. The council members voiced immediate approval. "You sure can't study in the dorms on Sunday night," declared Fred McGuirt. After a short discussion, Kimbrough said he would check with the library staff and report to the council next week.

Dr. Charles Ratliff's Research Results Could Pace Tax Revision

The product of Dr. Charles Ratliff’s sabbatical leave in 1960 has just been published. "Interstate Apportionment of Business Income for State Income Tax Purposes with Specific Reference to North Carolina" is the result of over a year of research and study. The formula set forth by Ratliff of basing the tax on the corporation’s holdings and payroll in the state, excluding the sales, has already created much interest among tax administrators and lawyers.

During his sabbatical, Ratliff began work on his book as a Research Fellow of the Inter-University Committee for Economic Research on the South. During this time he traveled and spent much of his time at the Department of Tax Research in Raleigh. He worked in both the main and the law libraries at Duke University and also interviewed corporate officials in North Carolina and in New York City. After Ratliff submitted his manuscript to the publisher, it was sent to various reviewers for approval. After this approval was given, the Inter-University Committee sent it to another group of reviewers to determine if the committee would pay for its publication. The book deals with "the determination of the portion of net income attributable to a particular state" from companies that engage in interstate commerce. The figures used in the book are based on the replies received from 126 firms out of a total of 370 contacted. Although some firms only returned the questionnaire prepared by Ratliff, other companies made extensive studies of the effect that the acceptance of Ratliff’s proposals would have on their taxes.

Expert On France

Dr. Ian Forbes Fraser, director of the American Library in Paris, will speak at chapel in Chambers Auditorium at 10:20 a.m. Dec. 10. Fraser's topic will be either "De Gaulle and the Fifth French Republic," an analysis of the creation, accomplishments, and chances of survival of the republic, or "France, Key to Our European Defense," the importance of French territory as supply, communications, and air bases and the chances of Communist influence in France. Each year he makes a lecture tour of the United States under the sponsorship of the American Library in Paris. He speaks on various topics related to France.

YMCA Gift Fund Goes To Cambodian Hospital
BY TOM PEADEN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Anesthesia Machine Target Of $4,000 Goal

Students began soliciting in the dorms this evening for the 1962 edition of the annual YMCA Christmas Gift Fund, which will go to aid a CARE-sponsored hospital project in Cambodia. The YMCA hopes to raise $4,000 through student collections to help provide the hospital with needed equipment. Money collected will be stretched between the three greatest needs: an anesthesia machine, an operating table, and more laboratory equipment.

An impassioned plea by Esther Wedin of the World University Service for assistance for college student housing in Chile given in chapel Tuesday failed to sway the student body. More entertained than influenced, they voted by nearly a three-to-one margin immediately after chapel for the Cambodian hospital project. More students voted this year than in any past selection of the YMCA project. Also rejected by the students was a project to supply additional funds for teachers' salaries at the International Christian University in Tokyo, Japan. The collected dollars will go to Medico, the medical service branch of CARE, to help support its hospital in the small, malaria-ridden village of Lomphat in an isolated part of Cambodia. As described by Dr. Commanduras of CARE in chapel last Thursday, the hospital has an excellent staff of doctors, but a serious equipment shortage. "The Gift Fund would help provide medical care—not educated guesswork," he stated. Surgery is limited at present due to the lack of an anesthesia machine and other equipment. In addition to an anesthesia machine and an operating table, funds will be used to help provide laboratory equipment such as x-ray apparatus.

Under a procedure to be followed in this and in future years, each solicitor will have a room chart with the names of students he is soliciting. A list will be compiled after the drive showing whether a student contributed or not, but not how much he gave. In this way, the YMCA hopes to get an indication of student interest in the Gift Fund project, an indication more precise than that obtained from merely adding up the total amount collected.

College Will Send Five To Mock UN

Davidson College will send five delegates to the Middle South United Nations Model General Assembly in Raleigh Feb. 20-23. The mock United Nations is sponsored by the Collegiate Council on the United Nations. Its purpose is to enable college students to learn more about the attitudes of other countries. Davidson will represent Portugal. The delegates from here will receive information from Portugal and will assume its position in the UN. The agenda includes two General Assembly sessions, committee meetings, a business meeting, and a plenary session to decide on constitutional proposals. All students wishing to apply or to receive further information should contact John Spratt, 411 Richardson dormitory. (The deadline for applications is tomorrow.) If more than five students apply, the Student Council will choose from among them. Costs will be paid by the Student Council.