PAGE FOUR

THE THREE NOMINEES for editor of Quips and Cranks, Jim Norman, Ted Scarboro, and Hal Todd, seem to have something
weighing on their minds. It may be elections or this year’s uncompleted issue lying before them, both of which will
near a climax next week. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Yearbook Candidates Set Forth Their Views

A SUPERIOR ANNUAL incorporates a broad range of items. The most important three are (1) choosing the best personnel for
each major position; (2) making full use of all the many varied talents on campus—Photographers, writers, idea men, and artists;
and (3) budgeting both time and money correctly so that they can produce Davidson's finest Annual in 1963.

COLOR is an excellent medium for conveying the beauty of our campus to those who see the annual. Not only
in several large color pictures (without painted-in clouds!), but also in the use of color accents throughout the book.

INDIVIDUAL PICTURES reflect the personalities of the students and also reflect the composite personality of the student body. In recent
years, many fraternities have found that the individual pictures in their composites have been better than the annual pictures. For
this reason, I would like to offer that company an opportunity to submit contracts on the individual pictures for both
Quips and Cranks and the composites. This would allow the annual to receive the benefit of better pictures and the
students the chore of having to pose only once and being assured of a good picture.

PHOTOGRAPHY is the most descriptive of the graphic arts. Being a photographer enables me to be able to see the
many varied uses of the camera and also its limitations.

THE 1962 Quips and Cranks leaves a core of experienced men to lead it toward higher goals. Utilizing these men
to their utmost, adding to this core with new talent, and the correct budgeting of one’s assets would permit the
1963 Quips and Cranks to be the best ever!

Scarboro

The Quips and Cranks should be a photo interpretation of the year’s events, and if elected to the post of
editor, I will endeavor to make it so. The editor must formulate his ideas for the whole yearbook as well
as for each of the individual parts. Special techniques, which only photography can achieve, properly used, will make a successful
yearbook. To be able to visualize an idea and carry it out on film would be a great asset to
any man. Having had the experience of being the chief photographer for this year’s annual, I feel that I have,
to some extent, gained this asset.

TEAM EFFORT

It would certainly not do to attempt to make the yearbook the product of a single man. There is more
work involved in its preparation than any one man could accomplish in a year. The editor should do his utmost
to make the yearbook a “team effort,” selecting men for this “team” who would be the most highly qualified for
their particular assignment. Additional men would also be needed to formulate the overall theme, planning, and coordination of activities.

With my ability as a photographer, and with a carefully selected staff, I would endeavor to make next year’s annual
a book with several purposes. For the Seniors, the annual should be a book which will give them a lasting
and interesting resume of their years as Davidson students. For the underclassmen, the annual should provide a full cross-section of
college activities; a book which will be, in every sense, a yearbook: a book of activities of the past year.
For the general public, the annual should present a fair and understandable interpretation of Davidson College, its men, and its
physical plant.

I stand as a nominee fully knowing the magnitude and responsibility of this position. I am willing to serve you,
the student body, to the utmost of my capacity, and I should consider it an honor to do so.

Todd

The college yearbook, in its fullest sense, should be both an embodiment of the school and the students it represents,
and a full record of the senior class that produces it.

CONTINUITY

This can be accomplished best by the use of pictures having such a degree of personal attractiveness so as to
tell the story of the book almost within themselves, supplemented by well-written copy to make it complete. The yearbook should
also have a continuity that makes it a complete unit. This can be achieved by use of a theme that
is carried throughout the book, without becoming trite, and also by using an enlarged color section and a color scheme
through the entire annual.

LESS FORMAL

In increasing the quality of each section by using pictures that are less formal and therefore better examples of the
activities they represent, the book will come closer to its goal of showing the school and the school year as
it is seen by the student body. These are my objectives. If given the privilege of editing the Quips and
Cranks for next year, I intend to carry them out by use of a well-organized staff and a more complete
use of good photography throughout to make it an annual that will represent the school and the senior class in
the best way possible.

PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS

Tuesday, March 13 — Prudential Insurance Co. of America
Federal Reserve

Wednesday, March 14 — General Electric
Cooper D. Cass Co.

Thursday, March 15 — Haskins and Sells Accounting

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Right Wing Progresses In Organization Attempt

Approximately 20 people were on hand Wednesday night as the newly-organized Conservative Club held its second meeting in the Green
Room of the College Union. The club obtained a temporary name, “Conservative Club,” a temporary president, Clay Atkins, and adopted
a set of purposes for the organization.

Atkins, who was elected Chairman of the Activities Committee at the first meeting, announced that at 5 p.m. next Monday
he would hold a discussion on Viet-Nam. Prof. James Martin of the Chemistry Department, the adviser for the club, made
a brief statement at the beginning of the meeting in which he sought to correct some false ideas about the
organization. Professor Martin said, “We want to correct the public image of conservatism on this campus. To do this, I
suggest we have a committee set up to take various ideas from magazines such as The Reporter, The Nation, and
National Review and present a mimeographed sheet each month with both sides of pertinent questions. In this way, I believe
we can get people to read our ideas and to see that we are open-minded.”

No action was taken at the meeting on Martin’s suggestion, but he said that he felt sure that it would
be carried through since there had been some discussion on the matter at the first meeting. Martin also told THE
DAVIDSONIAN that most of the professors he knew were very much in favor of an organization of the conservative type
getting started at Davidson. “Whether they are conservative or not, they feel that an organization of this type will start
enough people to thinking and that sooner or later students will swing to their views,” he said.

Tom Ross presided at Wednesday night’s meeting. The majority of the time was spent in adoptingFive purposes and five basic
understandings of the organization. The summary of the purposes was presented in the fifth point of the preamble to an
as-of-yet unwritten constitution. It stated that: “The purpose of this organization shall be to promote an active program that will
complement the guiding purposes of this organization.” This would presumably include arranging for conservative speakers to visit the campus and
for distributing the sheet which Professor Martin proposed. The five basic understandings of the organization are as follows in part:
Man should be free from any forces which would deny him his “basic right” of freedom of choice; the major
purpose of government should be “... the protection of, rather than infringement upon, the personal freedoms of the governed; ...
the burden of government should not fall to a macro-centralized bureaucracy, but to free citizens accepting individual responsibility in areas
of local influence; ... a market economy free from undue government restraint is the only system that is both the
best supplier of human needs and an adequate protector of personal freedom; and... the foreign policy of these United States
should be characterized by a more positive assertion of our national aims.” He also indicated that in the near future
Dr. D. M. Sparrow from Charlotte would speak to the club on the AMA stand on medical aid to the
aged. The next official meeting for the Conservative Club will be held next Wednesday at 7 p.m. As yet no
meeting site has been selected. Atkins urged all people interested in joining the club to attend.

John Cooley Accepts Rockefeller Grant

Senior John Cooley has been awarded one of 60 Rockefeller Brothers Theological Fellowships. He plans to enter Union Theological Seminary
in New York next fall on the all-expenses-paid grant. The fellowship is given to anyone who is undecided about attending
seminary and who probably would not attend without the aid.

Nominations for the award are made by ministers or faculty members, and academic performance is a significant factor in the
selection process. A “B” undergraduate average is required. The fellowship is for a one-year trial period during which the student
seeks to determine his fitness for the ordained Christian ministry. Cooley chose Union from a list of 82 accredited theological
seminaries because of its “quality, broad curriculum, rigorous academic standards, and cultural advantages.” Cooley, a Sigma Chi from Black Mountain,
N.C., recently returned from a four-month tour of the East where he attended an educational work camp for two weeks
in West Pakistan and the Third Assembly of the World Council of Churches in New Delhi. He also visited the
Madras Boys’ Town in South India to which the Davidson YMCA gift fund went last year and attended youth conferences
in the Philippines. In addition, he traveled through most of the Middle East, Taiwan, Japan, and Hawaii.

FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1962

WEEJUN-DEVOURING SLUSH — Greeks have been half-wading, half-walking through not-so-firm terra firma to houses located on the northern end of
the court.

College Authorities Silent As Students Sink In Goo

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Way back in high school they taught us that the shortest distance between two points is a straight line. At
the moment, the feasibility of such movement between Richardson Dormitory and the northern section of Patterson Fraternity Court is extremely
questionable. Hawthorne said, “Life is made up of marble and mud.” And while we may lack the marble half of
reality, there is certainly no shortage of the other factor. To the contrary, the unwary Davidson gentleman, ever conscious of
labor-saving shortcuts, is liable to suddenly discover that the alternate trans-court path has disappeared into a sea of slogging muck.
It seems that terra firma has given way somewhat to the periodic winter monsoons of snow, sleet, and rain, and
the food-ward tramp of hundreds of feet has created quite a quagmire. And the spring thaws do not promise any
improvement in the weejun-devouring slush. And while careless feet ooze in the mud and erosion creates an alluvial fan from
the driving range to the Sigma Chi house, the main walk itself is occasionally traced with rivulets and undermined with
deceptive sinkholes. Even the most securely combat-boot shod foot is lost in the soup. And what improvements have been suggested
for Davidson's caldron of mud? Some suggest enrollment in the soil bank program. Conservatives favor a more hardy strain of
grass. And quite legitimate compared with the monorail idea is the great asphalt paving lobby. The college authorities are silent
about the whole matter; why should a little impediment such as mud stop the student body when it failed to
even slow the army (on the evidence of ROTC). But suppose all schemes fail and the Hill continues its oblivion
to the mud wallow in the Greek backyard, what happens when April showers have turned all paths into obstacle courses?
How many spike heels will disappear into the goo before action is taken? Shall memories of Spring Frolics consist only
of battles with demonic ground conditions? The time for action is now, before the mud pits suck down to thick
oblivion the careless student. Or we should at least have some more marble.

GUNGHO — Pictured is part of the mob struggling to get their uniforms cleaned and pressed, as ordered. This is
phase one of week-long preparations which will reach their climax next Tuesday when the Cadet Corps is subjected to a
federal inspection. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Play, Concert Later

The Davidson Artist Series is bringing two performing groups to the campus next week. Players Inc., a well-known classical repertory
company, will present Shakespeare's Richard III. Three days later, “I Musici,” an Italian virtuoso chamber orchestra, will give a concert
of 17th and 18th-century chamber compositions.

PRESENT RICHARD III

The Players’ performance of Richard III will take place in Chambers Auditorium on Monday, March 12, at 8:15 p.m. Susan
Walker, a former Cherry Blossom Princess, plays the tragic Lady Ann in the play. Tickets for Monday's performance are on
sale at the College Union. There will be no reserved seats. Players Inc. has toured all over the U.S. and
performed in Europe and the Far East seven times. Last May they presented “Oedipus Rex” in Carnegie Hall in New
York City. They gave Shakespeare's Henry IV at Davidson in 1957.

“I Musici,” or “the Musicians,” will present a classical concert in Chambers Auditorium on Thursday, March 15, at 8:15 p.m.
Guest and student date tickets will not be offered, but Davidson students will be admitted free. The 12 musicians play
together without a conductor, alternating in solo and ensemble parts. The group was organized in Rome and is now making
a tour of major U.S. cities. They have played in Venice, in Holland, in Bordeaux, and at the Edinburgh Festivals
in Europe. They have recorded on the Epic and Angel recording labels and were praised by Arturo Toscanini as “a
perfect chamber orchestra.”

CLASSICAL CONCERT

Their program will consist of Pergolesi’s “Concertino No. 6 in B-flat Major for Strings and Cembalo,” the Vivaldi “Concerto in
F minor,” and Giordani’s “Concerto in C Major for Piano and Strings.” “Rumanian Folk Dances” by Bela Bartok and “Symphony
No. 9 for Strings” by Mendelssohn will conclude the concert.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

Copyright © 1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY. COCA-COLA AND COKE ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS.
