| CATS OUT TO SCALP INDIANS J. C. SMITH EDITOR DISCUSSES SIT-I (See Page Two) VOL. L The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1962 Flood Of Noted Speakers Streams Over Campus The Spring semester promises some unusual and outstanding persons on campus in the form of visiting lecturers and speakers. One of America’s ten greatest preachers in the opinion of the “Christian Century” will spend three days on campus over the weekend of February 11. He is the Rev. George A. Buttrick, a native of New England and recently retired chaplain of Harvard University. The chapel program this semester shows some deviation from the ordinary with speakers ranging from a Jewish Rabbi to the U.S. Secretary of State. On Feb. 13, Dr. Paul F. Geren, Deputy Director of the Peace Corps and a former professor of economics, will be the chapel speaker. Geren has been in the Middle East working for the Foreign Service since 1947. Two days later Rabbi Leo J. Stillpass of Raleigh will speak in chapel and also visit religion classes. RUSK, JUDD On Thursday, Feb. 22, Secretary of State Dean Rusk will arrive on campus and speak in chapel. Rusk was born in Cherokee County, Georgia in 1909 and went to public schools in Atlanta. He graduated from Davidson in 1931, a member of Phi Beta Kappa and a Rhodes Scholar. He studied at Oxford University in England and later at the University of Berlin. Congressman Walter H. Judd, a former medical missionary to China, will speak on February 26. Judd is a Republican from Minnesota. QUAKER PHILOSOPHER Toward the latter part of April and early May, vespers will bring three very different humanitarians to Davidson, each a leader in his own field. The most famous living Quaker philosopher, Dr. Douglas Steere, will spend three days on campus over the weekend of April 29. Steere, a professor at Haverford College in Pennsylvania, is especially interested in the role of Mysticism in philosophy. He is a specialist in the work of the Danish philosopher Kierkegaard and has translated one of his works. Steere, the author of eight books himself, will be the speaker at vespers and guest lecturer in philosophy classes. ROBSHAW, CRANE On May 6, the Rev. Charles P. Robshaw, a native of Ireland and minister in Pittsburgh, Pa., will preach at vespers. The Presbyterian Church sent Robshaw to Cuba to survey the Church's situation there during the outbreak of Castro’s terrorism. Invited in 1961 by churches of India and Thailand, Robshaw made a speaking tour through the Far East. Presently he is Chairman of the Mayor’s Commission on Human Relations in Pittsburgh. The following Sunday, Korea’s only open-heart surgeon and a Davidson alumnus will be vespers preacher. Dr. Paul S. Crane, a medical missionary to Korea, is now completing a two-year course in heart surgery at Johns Hopkins and will return to Korea to operate and instruct Korean doctors in his much-needed profession. Congressman Judd Schedules Address BY JEFF WAMPLER Davidsonian Assignment Editor Congressman Walter H. Judd, Republican representative from Minnesota’s fifth district, will speak at Davidson on Feb. 26. A former medical missionary to China, Judd is considered to be an accomplished orator and one of America’s leading spokesmen for the conservative point of view. Judd’s visit is sponsored by the college as part of its program to bring outstanding lecturers and authors to the campus. Though not planned deliberately, Judd will speak less than a week after the visit of Dean Rusk, thus providing the opportunity of hearing both the Kennedy administration and the conservative points of view within a short period of time. Since Judd will be here for only one day, the faculty has voted to hold a convocation. This means that morning classes on the 26th will be cut short in order to allow a full hour chapel period for his address. Following the address, a short coffee hour will be held in the College Union. After lunch at the SAE house, Judd will leave from Charlotte for his next speaking engagement. A native of Nebraska, Judd received his BA from the University of Nebraska in 1920. While in college, he was active in a number of religious movements, and after earning his MD degree, he served in China as a medical missionary until 1938, when increasing Communist pressure forced him to leave. Upon his return, he was awarded an LLD degree from Miami University, and has served from the 78th Congress to the present. In 1960, Judd was the keynote speaker for the Republican National Convention. Poll Seeks Integration Opinions On Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 5-6, the Student Council and THE DAVIDSONIAN will conduct a poll on the student opinion of integration. The poll, taken in the lobby of Chambers from first through fourth periods each day, will use the method currently employed in elections. Each student will have his name checked off when he votes. The following statement will be the sole content of the poll: “I favor the admission of qualified students of any race or nationality to Davidson College (yes/no).” Results of the poll will be announced in next week's paper. “Two years ago,” stated George Trask, president of the Student Council, “a similar poll was conducted, the results of which were dubious due to the vagueness of the wording of the poll itself.” “Recently,” he continued, “the faculty resolved that no qualified student should be denied admission because of race or nationality. We feel that now is the opportune moment to express student opinion. “Thus our purpose will be two-fold, first to indicate any change in student opinion as nearly as possible, but primarily to express student opinion to the Board of Trustees concerning the admission of Negroes to Davidson.” Trask concluded, “We merely want to indicate student opinion. This is not an attempt to petition or dictate to the Trustees. We're not trying to force the issue at all.” Five Crests Rock At Midwinters Fete The Crests, a rock 'n roll recording group, have been contracted by the IFC to perform at Midwinters. Bob Waugh, IFC President, explained that the Olympics broke contract when their New York agent decided that not enough appearances could be booked in this area to warrant their coming here. Waugh also said that the IFC could have sued for breach of contract but that the legal complications and great expense involved in a suit made the action unfeasible. The Crests, a group comparable in style to the Olympics, were contracted through an agent in Macon, Georgia, at no extra cost to the IFC. Car Wash, Dance End Greek Week Activities BY DAVID STITT Davidsonian Staff Writer The 1962 Greek Week activities will culminate Saturday afternoon and evening with a car wash at Queens College conducted by the combined Davidson fraternity pledge classes, followed Saturday night by a dance at Queens which the entire Davidson student body is invited to attend. Bob Waugh, head of the IFC, announced plans for the car wash and dance in cooperation with representatives from Queens’ Panhellenic Council. The time for the car wash is set for 2-5 p.m. Saturday afternoon on the Queens campus. The charge per car will be $1, with all proceeds going to support an exchange student to Queens next year. That night the rockin’ rollin’ Vibratones will play for the dance in the Queens gymnasium. Tickets will cost 50 cents apiece. Saturday will also mark the official close of pledge class competition for this year. The final decision on 1962's outstanding pledge class will be made sometime this weekend with the trophy being awarded early next week. Judges will be Dr. Tom Clark, Dr. Charles Ratliff, Dr. W. G. McGavock, and (Continued On Page Four) 28 Fail To Make Grades; Chance Of Dismissals Dim BY JOHN MOREFIELD Davidsonian Staff Writer At the end of the first semester, 28 Davidson students had failed to meet the Skits Censured Phi Delta Theta fraternity took the largest measure of punishment handed out yesterday by the Executive Committee as a result of Wednesday night's Greek Week skits. The fraternity was “severely warned” concerning any other act of irresponsible conduct. All 1962 Greek Week activities were cancelled. May 1, 1962, is the earliest date the pledges may be initiated. A complete report of theAction will be filed with the national office of the fraternity. Also, the Executive Committee issued a “resolution of censure” to all fraternities in which it criticized the tone of Wednesday night's skits as going beyond the limits of good taste. It did not fine any fraternity, nor recommend any changes in Greek Week policy, feeling that such regulation should be left to the IFC, which will discuss skit night and related problems at its meeting next Monday night.

The Executive Committee has set the date on which Phi Delt minimum scholastic requirements of nine semester hours and six quality points as set down by the administration. Of these students, seven were freshmen, eight were sophomores, nine were juniors, and four were seniors. Upon examination, this number appeared to be consistent with the figures recorded for recent years. However, no students are being required to withdraw at this time, according to Dean Richard C. Burts.

“The Executive Committee does not want to suspend men at mid-year,” said Burts in a DAVIDSONIAN interview this week. Though definite action is yet to be taken on these cases by the committee, it seems fairly certain that no one will be required to withdraw because of scholastic difficulty. The students in question will probably be put on academic probation this semester and will have to improve and meet the standards by the end of the school year. Of about seven students who did drop out, none were required to do so because of grades. In every case, personal difficulties and lack of motivation led the administration “to agree with the students” that they should drop out for a semester or a year, or, as in a few instances, to encourage the student to remain out for a semester or to transfer to another school.

The underachievement issue was raised, but, according to Dean Burts, his office is taking no action on this problem at the present time. He made it plain, however, that he has definite sentiments toward this problem, and toward men who fail, for various reasons, to fulfill their potential in scholastic work. Burts underlined lack of motivation as the principal cause behind underachievement by students. He said that this lack can stem from a variety of causes, such as unhappiness or indecision in a choice for a life's work, trouble at home, or a growing loss of interest in school in general. “It is not a sudden thing,” said Burts.

When questioned on what is being done for underachieving students, Burts said that the faculty advisers still form the “first-line defense” against slumping scholastic work, and, according to Burts, have and show more interest in student problems than the students themselves realize. The Dean agreed that a more professional and personal approach to student difficulties might well be a big step toward alleviating the underachievement problem at Davidson.

Dean’s List Returns After 20-Year Limbo

In its December meeting, the faculty voted to start posting a dean’s list again at the end of each semester. According to Dr. Frontis Johnston, dean of the faculty, its purpose will be “to recognize the quality of work done by the students.” Students appearing on the dean’s list will not be given any special privileges other than being recognized for their work. To appear on the dean’s list, a student must earn a 2.5 or better average. “This will not be cumulative,” said Dr. Johnston, “and it is entirely possible for a student to be on the list one semester and off it the next.” Dr. Johnston also indicated that the dean's list will be posted on the bulletin board and that the list for last semester will be posted in the next few days.

In recent years, the registrar’s office has been posting a list of cumulative grades for the members of each class, with the length of the sheet of paper determining the number of names of those appearing on the list. “It has probably been 20 years since Davidson has had a dean’s list," said Dr. Johnston. The old dean’s list was used before the cut system was liberalized in order to give the students on it certain privileges.

College Presents Plan For New Social Center

Independents Elect Steering Committee

BY MAC PLAXICO
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Approximately 70 independents met Wednesday in the Union to hear a proposal by President D. G. Martin and the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life that a new social group be formed on campus. Prof. S. D. Maloney, chairman of a special subcommittee which has been studying the problems of independents for the past semester, presented the group’s proposal.

The college wishes, if a sufficient number of independents are interested, to move forward with some loosely knit, non-exclusive “organization” whose primary concern would be for the social life of its members. The college is prepared to provide physical facilities for such a group at a nominal operating cost. After an hour-long question and discussion period, those independents interested elected a nine-man steering committee to consider further the proposal and to work with the faculty committee on more definite plans. Members of the steering committee are seniors, David Jordan and Danny McRight; juniors, Ben Cole and Rodger Durham; sophomores, Neal Bushoven and Al Mullen; and freshmen, Pat Fisher, Rufus Hallmark, and Dick Vines.

President Martin told those present that the college had recently acquired a suitable house for the proposed group—the Lingle house, across from Richardson Dormitory. Martin said the college could not make a final commitment until this was approved by the Board of Trustees, but he indicated that he thought they would have no opposition to this use. Martin and Maloney both indicated a long-standing college interest in such a project.

In addition to Chairman Maloney, the special subcommittee is composed of Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz and Dr. C. J. Pietenpol. They were both present at Wednesday’s meeting, as were also C. Shaw Smith and Dr. George Staples, members of the full faculty committee.

The subcommittee sees the purpose of the suggested organization as “social, in the broad sense of the term.” Membership would be completely voluntary. It was emphasized that this was not being imposed on anyone, that this was not a “fraternity” nor could it ever become the basis for an exclusive society or a Greek letter fraternity. The concepts of the proposed organization were stated in general terms on a sheet which was passed out at the meeting. The basic principles, as suggested by the subcommittee, include: eligibility of all Davidson College students for membership, equal rights and obligations for all members, encouragement toward respect for the worth and concern for the welfare of other members, encouragement of the development of the individual’s abilities, interests, ideas, and aims in his own way, and the realization that the member's primary responsibility is to the whole community of which this organization is a part.

A moderate initiation fee and semester dues would be required for the upkeep of the social center and its program. In reply to a question about cost, Martin said that the college (Continued On Page Four)

Theologian Speaks At YMCA Forum

Dr. George A. Buttrick, recently retired as Preacher at Harvard University, will be a visitor on the Davidson College Campus Feb. 10-13, and will deliver the sermon at the vesper service on Sunday evening, Feb. 11. In addition, he will lead a YMCA forum on Prayer on Monday at 7 p.m. in the ballroom at the College Union. A YMCA study group, under the leadership of Prof. Clark, has been discussing for three sessions Dr. Buttrick’s book.

A native of England, Dr. Buttrick studied both in that country and the United States. He has held pastorates in Canada and the United States, his last pulpit being the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York City. In addition, he has served as Professor of Preaching at Union Theological Seminary in New York. Dr. Buttrick’s writings have included two volumes on prayer, one on religion and higher education, a study of the parables, and most recently, Sermons Preached in a University Church.

Although officially retired from the Harvard post, Dr. Buttrick has continued teaching. He is currently a member of the faculty of Garrett Biblical Institute in Evanston, IL. He has visited Davidson on a number of occasions, having been an Otts Lecturer in 1956 and the Religion Emphasis Week speaker in 1958. He is also a former member of the Davidson Board of Visitors.

NEXT PLEASE — Students reluctantly file past to pay their spring fees in the bursar’s office. All but a few stragglers had paid by the Wednesday deadline. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)