FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1962

With 5 seconds showing on the clock, and Davidson leading Clemson by 4 points, D. G. MARTIN (no. 14) steps
to the free throw line with a 1 and 1 situation. The Wildcat captain sank both tosses, and it was
all over.

Comments By STEVE CLARK

THE BIG ONE

TUESDAY NIGHT is the big one for Davidson’s outstanding freshman basketball team. That's the night the Duke frosh tip into
Johnston Gymnasium at 6:30 for a return match. Back in December the Duke yearlings clipped our Driesell-recruited experts, 77-71, in
Durham, and ever since then the Wildkittens have seen red whenever the name Duke has been mentioned. The frosh have
been pointing to this one for so long that they are somewhat like assassins, who have thoroughly plotted the murder
of some famous celebrity, and are now just waiting in ambush for the right moment to kill. In a sense,
the Blue Imps are celebrities; and in a sense, they are in danger of being killed some Tuesday night. Ask
freshman players from Furman, South Carolina, North Carolina, Wake Forest, etc. Actually, this will be the third time this season
that the ’Kittens have been out for revenge. In the two previous revenge bouts against Wake Forest and UNC, they
were successful. The importance of the game may be seen in the following three statements: if the Kittens win, they
will have an 11-game winning streak; if they win, they will be able to say with pride that they beat
everybody on their schedule; and if they win, they will undoubtedly be considered the best freshman team in these parts,
and possibly the whole South. The Blue Imps, sporting a 7-foot giant among their talented cagers, are considered the best
freshman team in the basketball-minded Atlantic Coast Conference. Since we are regarded as the cream of the Southern Conference crop,
Tuesday night would be as good a time as any to disprove Wake Forest freshman coach Jackie Murdock’s theory that
Davidson College ‘is still not ready to compete against ACC teams.” We suggest that everyone in the student body be
on hand for this big one Tuesday night, regardless of reviews, writs, etc. We think you'll enjoy this planned murder,
and we don’t think Duke will return to Durham known as the big one that got away.

CANTY CHOOSES CANADA

Furman’s talented quarterback Billy Canty has signed a contract with the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League. Canty, who
hurled four touchdown passes against Davidson in this past fall’s game in Greenville, was the fourth leading passer in the
nation’s college ranks this past season, and was instrumental in the South’s victory over the North in the Senior Bowl
Game at Mobile, Ala.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE STANDINGS

Conference All
W L W L
West Virginia 11 1 18 5
VPI 7 3 15 5
Furman 7 4 13 10
VMI 6 7 7 9
Davidson 4 5 13 8
Richmond 5 7 6 16
George Washington 4 6 6 13
The Citadel 3 7 7 18
William & Mary 3 10 5 16

BILL JARMAN (with ball) lays in 2 points as VMI's BOBBY WATSON (55) defends. Wildcat D. G. MARTIN (14) and
Keydet NORM HALBERSTADT (23) close in for possible rebound. VMI defeated the 'Cats last Saturday night, 68-66. (Staff Photo by
McCutchen)

BY STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

Following an 83-65 loss at the hands of Furman last night, the Davidson Wildcats strive to get back on the
right track tonight in Gastonia’s Wray Junior High School gymnasium, where they meet Erskine for the second time this season.
Tipoff time is slated for 8:15 p.m. The ’Cats traveled to Greenville, S. C., last night, and were beaten by
Furman for the second time this season. D. G. Martin was high for Davidson with 18 points, while Terry Holland
and Haywood Evans contributed 13 and 10, respectively. Suffering with the now prevalent “flu bug,” top scorer Bill Jarman managed
only 7 points. The Paladin attack was paced by everybody's All-Conference Jerry Smith, who tossed in 36 points, and by
the league's top rebounder, Gerald Glur, who scored 21 and hauled in 21 rebounds. Tonight's foe, Erskine, was victim number
ten of the now historical twelve-game winning streak, which VMI ended last Saturday night, 68-66, on All-Conference Norm Halberstadt’s last
second whirling jump shot. This past Monday night Davidson recovered from the VMI loss with a 61-55 upset over Clemson
on the local court. Four Wildcats hit in double figures against the Tigers including Jarman (17), Holland (16), Martin (14),
and Bill Beerman (19). The other Wildcat starter, Evans, whose 20 points matched VMI's Halberstadt basket-for-basket in the second half
of last Saturday night’s game, managed only 4 against the Tigers. Still seeking a sure berth in the conference tournament,
Davidson hosts Richmond this coming Tuesday night at 8:15. A victory over the Spiders would sew up a berth, and
take the pressure off the 'Cats when they go to Charleston, S. C.

Duke's Depth Dunks "Cat Mermen, 48-47

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Wildcat mermen were touched out by the Duke paddlers, 48-47, in a non-conference meet held at the Blue Devil
pool this past Tuesday afternoon. Going into the last event, the 400-yd. freestyle relay, the ’Cats held the lead, 47-41.
However, the Blue Devil relay team proved too much for the ‘Catfish, giving Duke 7 points and the meet. Following
the meet, Coach Dwight Shoe said, “The boys did a good job, but if depth ever hurt us, it did
so today. You don't usually lose too many meets when you win 6 out of 11 events.” The freshman team
also met defeat at the hands of a powerful Baby Imp team, 53-23, as the Wildkittens did not receive any
first places. First place winners for Davidson in the meet included the following: Carter Mebane, 220-yd. freestyle and 440-yd. freestyle;
Jack Hollenbeck, 100-yd. freestyle; Tommy French, 200-yd. backstroke; Stefan Young, 200-yd. breaststroke; and the Davidson 400-yd. medley relay team.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

'Cats Meet Erskine Tonight; Entertain Richmond Tuesday

Big Jim Fuller, Kappa Sig mainstay, jumped into the individual scoring lead on the basis of 21 and 16 points
in his last two outings. Independent Mark Dunn, last week’s leader, dropped to second after a 12-point performance. This week's
I-F checklist includes the following: Last Friday, Andy Boggs and Andy Sherrill pumped in 17 and 15 points, respectively, as
the Phi Delts trounced the Sig Eps, 73-31. Earl Cole’s 21 points paced the Independents as they nipped the Sigma
Chis, 52-51, despite freshman Paul Reichardt’s 15-point effort. This past Tuesday, the deadly duo of Jim Fuller and Johnny Rogers
hit 16 and 19 points, respectively, as the Kappa Sigs whipped the Keith Fraser (17)-led Pikas, 57-45. Ip Roberts hit
a field goal with 2 seconds remaining in the game as the ATO’s edged the Betas, 45-43. The Taus were
again paced by Paul Duvali (16) and George.C., next Saturday night for a game with fast-improving Citadel. Davidson defeated the
Spiders, 55-52, in an earlier contest in Richmond. Paced by All-Conference guard Danny Higgins and 6'4" sophomore John Telepo, the
Spiders are a short but fast ball club. They have compiled a 5-7 loop record and are 6-16 overall. They
have recently been involved in some cliffhangers, including the three-point loss to the ‘Cats last week, a one-point victory over
VMI, 82-81, and a one-point loss to The Citadel, 58-57.

The person who personally ended the ‘Cats’ winning streak last Saturday night leaps into the air on a jump ball
situation with D. G. MARTIN. He is NORM HALBERSTADT, VMI sharpshooter, whose last-second shot gave the Keydets a 68-66 win,
thus ending Davidson's streak at 12. Looking on are Wildcats BILL JARMAN (10), TERRY HOLLAND (42), and BILL BEERMAN (32),
and Keydets JOE GEDRO (53) and GENE LAZAROFF (31). (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Unbeaten Kappa Sigs Pace I-F Cage Loop

Paced by two of the league’s top scorers, the Kappa Sigs won their sixth straight game this week and maintained
a comfortable lead in the I-F basketball race. Son hit 22 and Earl Cole tossed in 18 for the Independents
in a losing cause to the Phi Delts, 57-47, who were paced by Van Austin’s 22 and Andy Boggs’ 16.
Yesterday the Pi Kapps downed the Sigma Nus for their first win of the season. Pacing the Pi Kapp attack
were Jim Pressley and John Boykin. stood out for the Nus.

Kappa Sig playmaker DURWOOD SETTLES (right) passes the ball through the legs of Pika pointmaker KEITH FRASER in Tuesday night's
I-F action. Looking on is Pika ALAN TORRENCE. The undefeated Sigs won their 6th straight, 57-45. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

... but the shouting, which came after the 5 seconds had elapsed. Big BILL JARMAN, Wildcat center, gets a ride
off the court via the shoulders of joyous Davidson students following Monday night’s 61-55 win. The only dejected face in
the crowd (lower right-hand corner) belongs to PRESS MARAVICH, Clemson coach. (Staff Photos by McCutchen)

Frosh Warm Up For Duke; Wallop Furman, 70-37

The classy Davidson freshman basketball team rolled over the Furman frosh last night, 70-37, in Greenville, S. C., just prior
to the varsity game with the Paladins. The win, which ran the Wildkittens’ win streak to 10 straight and their
overall record to 13-3, was the frosh’s second triumph over Furman. They bombed the Baby Paladins here back in December,
110-54.

WARMED UP

Thus the ’Kittens warmed up for their big game this coming Tuesday night at 6:30 in Johnston Gym when they
face the Duke frosh in a revenge bout, which will precede the varsity clash with Richmond. Back in December, the
Duke yearlings clipped the ‘Kittens, 77-71, in Durham. The Blue Imps are undoubtedly the best team on the freshman schedule,
and a victory over them would be quite an accomplishment for Coach Joe Hunt's club.

In two home games prior to the Furman contest, the frosh rolled over the South Carolina freshmen, 118-48, and the
Clemson freshmen, 81-69. These two games pushed their points per game average as a team to 88.0. They have limited
their opponents to 65.1 points a contest.

HETZEL LEADS

Fred Hetzel is the individual scoring leader with a 22.4 average. Going into last night’s game, the 6-8 center from
Washington, D. C., had bucketed 124 field goals and 88 out of 128 free throws for a total of 336
points. Don Davidson, Charlie Marcon, and Dave Thomas are also averaging in double figures. Scoring averages, not including last night's
game, are as follows:

Fred Hetzel 22.4
Don Davidson 16.3
Charlie Marcon 15.5
Dave Thomas 13.0
Paul Briggs 8.2
Barry Teague 6.9
Arthur Clark 5.2
Bill Kirkland 4.6
John Barrow 2.9

JUST ADD 100 TO THE HOME SCORE!

COPYRIGHT © 1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY COCA-COLA AND CONTOUR BOTTLE ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS

Big Five Meet On Tap For Wildcat Trackmen

BY BILL PRIDGEN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Tomorrow afternoon at 1:30, a hopeful band of Davidson trackmen meet Duke, UNC, Wake Forest, and N. C. State in
an indoor Big Five track meet in Raleigh. Coach Heath Whittle expressed regret that the meet could not be scheduled
some other time so as not to conflict with our Midwinter’s dance weekend. Whittle commented, “Numbers will get us this
year. We can’t expect to do very much with the number of boys that are going.”

In last year’s Big Five meet, Davidson took a third place, beating Wake Forest and N. C. State, but losing
to Duke and UNC. The cindermen who will make the trip include Bob Cordle and John Sharp, running the 440-yd.
dash, and Andy Boggs and Randy Austin, throwing the shot.

Several freshmen will also make the journey. They are Terry Williams, 70-yd. low hurdles and 60-yd. dash; Dennis Phillips, 880-yd.
dash; Chester Davis, two-mile run; Fred Heffner, mile run; and Tom Watson, 60-yd. dash. In addition, Watson, Williams, Heffner, and
Phillips will run in an eight-lap relay.

Whittle, although realistic about his team’s chances in Raleigh, had some real praise for the boys who will make the
trip, especially Sharp. Says Whittle, “I’m expecting great things of Sharp this year. He’s been working very hard, and he
should win the 440 at Raleigh.”

BETWEEN BITES... get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina
