PAGE FOUR

Night Snack Bar Impresario Tends To The Slater-Starved

BY MIKE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

After two years, the night manager of the snack bar for Slater Food Service, Paul Black, listed as the outstanding
feature of all his services “the splendid co-operation of the Davidson student body in all matters pertaining to the snack
bar.”

Black is a veteran of many years in the food preparation business, including tours of duty at the Mayflower, the
Hotel Charlotte, and other points in the Southeast. He has been living in Charlotte for the past five years. Married,
with one daughter (16), his home is in Charlotte and he commutes into Davidson.

Although Black emphasized that there had been very few problems—all of them minor—in his work at Davidson, his main concern
was finding enough students (15) to work during exams; he emphasized that most of them seemed to find a sudden
need to study. Along this line of thought, he commented that additional personnel at these times would be welcome, although
he planned no salary increase as a bonus for such courageous action.

PAUL BLACK, a Slater food connoisseur, dreams happily of his culinary past and present.

Another fact which Black brought out is probably unrecognized by the vast majority of Davidson College students, particularly those fond
of commenting upon the capriciousness of Slater Food Service. He added that what he served at the night snack bar
was entirely dependent upon the desires of the students; he said that he could authorize even full-course meals if the
students so desired. This is due in large part because all the equipment in the kitchens of the Student Union
Cafeteria is owned by Davidson College. The items the snack bar now offers, Black said, could be changed or increased
if enough of the students felt strongly enough about the situation to mention it to him.

Surprisingly enough, Black commented that the worst nights for business at the snack bar were during exams. He explained that
while the kitchen was prepared to serve anywhere from three to three hundred students per night, the number served food
on exam nights is much closer to three, although coffee consumption was very high, he added. Once again he came
back to emphasize that his menus were dependent upon student desires. A little bit of food agitation might be in
order.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Hopkins
Polley
Albergotti
Lobanov
Puckett
Blackwell
McGavock
Wheaton
Fogleman
Martin, D. G.
Woods
Fredericksen
Miller
Workman
Goldiere
Partridge

Chess Club Planning For Radio Tournament

The Chess Club is planning a two-way radio tournament with Western Reserve University of Chicago, for which ROTC Radio Club
equipment will be used. The club has also planned tournaments with several other colleges and universities, including U.N.C. and Duke,
as well as the Charlotte and Concord chess clubs. It hopes to participate in an all-state tournament sometime this year.
The club is now in the second round of a four-round tournament. Although the tournament champion will be chosen through
single elimination, everyone will play four matches. Each of the 16 participants will be ranked according to his position in
the tournament. One of the purposes of the tournament will be to set up ranks for competition and discussions of
game strategy.

Career Carnival Encourages Placement

BY GEORGE FAIN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

For the next two weeks, the “mid-way” of the College Union lobby will be the scene of Davidson’s First Career
Carnival. The hours will be from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Nov. 5-16. The purpose of the Carnival is to
encourage more registration for placement. A growing interest in graduate schools, the number of men who go into family enterprise,
and service obligations leave few graduates each year for immediate employment. Last year, in a class of approximately 200, less
than 50 students registered for placement, and only seven of these were immediately available for employment at graduation.

Career Carnival is designed to help the Davidson student become more aware of industry’s needs and to answer questions concerning
graduate work and service obligations. It will give students a chance to learn what opportunities the companies offer and what
they look for in liberal arts graduates. Tables, chairs, and displays will be set up in the Union lobby where
freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors are invited to stop and talk with representatives from the various industries. It is hoped
that the representatives will also eat lunch at various fraternity houses and thus give students another chance for informal “business
talk.”

A tentative list has been prepared for next week. On Monday, representatives from Travelers Insurance Co. and the Geological Survey
will be here. Olin Matheson, North Carolina National Bank, and Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. will be here on Tuesday. Southern
Bell, Fieldcrest, Citizens and Southern Bank, Equitable Insurance Co., Insurance of North America, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
are sending representatives on Wednesday. On Thursday, I.B.M., J. & G., Burlington, and Federal Reserve representatives will be present while
Friday will feature Burroughs and Deering-Milliken.

Mr. C. Shaw Smith, Placement Director, has expressed high hopes for this experiment, and he is anxious for the Davidson
students to make full use of this opportunity.

Todd Will Increase Photos For Annual

Work on the 1962-63 Quips and Cranks is “progressing very well,” according to Editor Hal Todd. The color pictures have
been taken, retakes were made this past Wednesday, and the cover selection has also been made. Todd cites as areas
of special mention the activities section and the photographic work. “The activities section is shaping up better than the other
sections, primarily because the areas encompassed in it are more organized.” He also praised the photography, predicting that “the quality
will be greatly above the average.” Photography Editor Ted Scarboro and Photographer Marty Lafferty are primarily responsible for this, says
Todd. The number of pictures, both in black and white and in color, will be increased this year.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

RENT NEW CARS AND SAVE UP
RENT-A-CAR SYSTEM
Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II and Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Rent a car the BUDGET Way, less per
mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you need. We Feature Free Hotel and Airport Pickup and Delivery
Service.
301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte 376-0213

Debate Team Splits Dixie Tournament

The Davidson Debating Team broke even in the Dixie Debate Tournament held at Drury College October 27. About twenty colleges
were represented including Duke, Wake Forest, University of Florida, Agnes Scott, and Vanderbilt, whose team won the tournament.

Bob Llewellyn and Harry Daniels, arguing for the Davidson affirmative team, won three rounds out of six; Skip Jones and
Bill Brown for the negative had the same results giving the team a fifty-fifty record for the entire match. These
results, according to Mrs. H. T. Lilley, assistant debating coach, are actually very good “considering the caliber of the other
teams represented.” Mrs. Lilley also mentioned that this season’s topic, “Resolved: that the non-communist nations of the world should form
an economic community,” is a very difficult one requiring much detailed study. “Furthermore,” she added, “there were many schools whose
teams won only one or two out of twelve rounds.”

This weekend will test the skill of Davidson’s Freshman Debating Team. As the plans now stand, the affirmative team of
Jim Curl and George Kuykendall with Bill Pierce, Albert Keizer, and Hank Taylor as the negative team will represent Davidson
at the Annual Novice Debate Tournament at Wake Forest.

Scripts 'n Pranks Plans First Issue

Scripts ‘n Pranks Editor Doug Ackerman announced that the first issue of the magazine will be ready immediately after Thanksgiving
holidays. The editor, in a DAVIDSONIAN interview, said that the deadline for the freshman writing contest will be Dec. 12.
The award will be “Five dollars and a coveted position on the staff.”

When asked about response to the recent request for contributions, Ackerman replied that he had received 35 articles. Of these,
he said that 17% were short stories and 17%, poems. “There is a very good balance between the literary and
humorous contributions.”

In a reply to a question about the aims of the magazine, Ackerman stated, “We shall continue our unsullied tradition
as a voice of dissent, truth, and justice; never lowering our banners...”

“And though under-manned at certain positions and usually matched against tough opponents, in spite of this, and very often lack
of student support, we almost always manage to come out with a good record. And several times in the last
few years, we have pulled off extraordinary upsets. The William and Mary game was almost one of these.”Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The results of the second match are as follows: Bob Miller, Jesse Lynn, and Chester Davis. (Grier Edmunds and Jim
Wilkinson have not yet played their second match.) The championship game will be held in the Union about three weeks
from now. It will be open to the public. President Bob Miller encouraged all who are interested in chess to
come to the meetings. He said, “No expert knowledge of chess is necessary, and we feel that everyone can benefit
from the discussion.” The meetings consist of studying techniques. The club will have several outside speakers and some films at
future meetings. There is equipment at the Union desk for both regular and five-minute chess.

Board (Continued From Page One)
The members of the board were announced at the banquet this evening: Major General Brooke Allen, Headquarters Command USAF, Bolling
AFB, Washington, D.C.; Mr. Edward Armfield, Greensboro, N.C.; Mr. John D. Baker, Reynolds and Company, New York City; Mr. James
G. Cannon, Chairman of Board, American Discount Co., Charlotte; Mr. Wilbur L. Carter, Jr., Executive Vice President, Southern Life Insurance
Co., Greensboro; Mr. James H. Clark, Wadesboro, N.C.; Mr. Charles A. Hunter, Executive Vice President, Harvey B. Hunter Dairies, Charlotte;
Mr. Boyce F. Martin, President, Louisville Cement Co., Louisville, Ky.; Mr. Dennis E. Myers, Jr., President, Myers Automobile Service Co.,
Charlotte; Dr. A. B. Reese, New York City; Mr. Nat G. Speir, N. G. Speir and Co., Charlotte.

NOW OPEN
The Hub
Just Across The Street
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1962

Robshaw Will Deliver Ashland White Lectures
Nineteen years ago the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville established the Ashland White Bible Lectures in memory of the pastor
who served the congregation from 1921 to 1941. These lectures are designed “to be non-denominational and are for all who
are interested in the discussion of themes of the Bible.”

James A. Jones.

Kappa Sigs Take Bridge Tournament
Kappa Sigma took top score in the bridge tournament held in the Union Morrison Room Oct. 30, 7:30 p.m. Each
of the 11 participating fraternities entered two teams, East-West and North-South, in the competition. The East-West team scoring the most
points was John Cameron and Julian Harris, from Phi Delta Theta (53 points). The North-South team with the highest score
was Joe Haseman and Forrest Roles, from Sigma Phi Epsilon (52 points). The seven highest fraternities ranked as follows:
Kappa Sigma 95
Sigma Phi Epsilon 92
Sigma Nu 86
Phi Delta Theta 86
Pi Kappa Alpha 83
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 80

Warren, chairman of the Union Game Committee, said that he hoped a regular schedule could be arranged, with tournaments either
bi-monthly or every three weeks. The Union Game Committee was also in charge of the freshman ping-pong and billiards tournaments
held earlier this year. Other ping-pong and billiards tournaments will be held in approximately two weeks. The entire student body
will be eligible. The list of winners will be placed on a challenge board, and challenge matches will be held
throughout the year.

Queens Protest (Continued From Page One)
“As the rule stands now, there are too many interpretations, and I think it should be stated in such a
way that there will be no question as to the meaning of it,” said Helene Nichols, a senior. “And I
feel the students ought to organize into a group and present our opinions on the question,” added Carolyn Hardee. One
student cited the rules of other southeastern women's colleges: “Hollins serves a limited amount (of alcohol) at its social functions
like the Hollins Cotillion. Converse allows girls to drink during off-campus weekends, but not after sunrise on the day they
return to Converse. Randolph-Macon allows drinking outside a 20-mile radius from the school.” The current punishment for the most recent
violators of the rule is a six-week period of no dates on or off campus after 7 p.m. Council President
Nisbet emphasized that, presently, each offender is considered as a separate case. Some campus penalties have involved a length of
nine weeks.

New Shipments:
Bass Weejuns
Gant Shirts
Canterbury Belts
GET YOUR NEW FALL OUTFIT BEFORE CONCERT WEEKEND
Bush Wilson Ltd.

This year’s speaker is Reverend Charles P. Robshaw. Born in Dublin, Ireland, he is the minister of East Liberty Presbyterian
Church in Pittsburgh. Following undergraduate work at St. Andrew's and the University of Dublin (Trinity College), he became an accountant.
Four years later he decided on the Ministry. This decision led him to the University of Edinburgh, Princeton Theological Seminary,
and Temple University in Philadelphia where he took an STD (Doctor of Sacred Theology) degree. Dr. Robshaw is quite active
in civic work serving on The Citizen’s Council of Urban Renewal of East Liberty, as well as a Director of
Princeton Theological Seminary. Robshaw will deliver two lectures on Sunday and one lecture each night the following week. His topics
will range from “The Climate of Our Age” and “The Survival of Our Faith,” to “The Energy of Our Love.”
All of these lectures will be held at the First Presbyterian Church in Mooresville at 8 p.m. on Monday through
Friday nights and at 11 a.m. and 8 p.m. on Sunday. All Davidson students and faculty are invited to attend
any of these lectures.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
The Famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf,” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

EAT, SLEEP, AND MATRICULATE
The trouble with early morning classes is that you're too sleepy. At late morning classes you're too hungry. At early
afternoon classes you're too logy. At late afternoon classes you're too hungry again. The fact is—and we might as well
face it—there is no good time of day to take a class. What shall we do then? Abandon our colleges
to the ivy? I say no! I say America did not become the hope of mankind and the world’s largest
producer of butterfat and tallow by running away from a fight! If you’re always too hungry or too sleepy for
class, then let’s hold classes when you’re not too hungry or sleepy: namely, when you're eating or sleeping. Classes while
eating are a simple matter. Just have a lecturer lecture while the eaters eat. But watch out for noisy food.
I mean who can hear a lecturer lecture when everybody is crunching celery or matzo or like that? Serve quiet
stuff—like anchovy paste on a doughnut, or steaming bowls of lamb fat. And kindly observe silence while lighting your post-prandial
Marlboro Cigarette. Don’t be striking kitchen matches on your jeans. Instead, carry an ember from the dormitory fireplace in your
purse or pocket. Place the Marlboro against the ember. Light it quietly. Smoke it quietly. Oh, I know I ask
a great deal! I know that one’s natural instinct upon encountering Marlboro’s fine flavor and filter is to throw back
one’s head and bellow great, rousing cries of joy. But you must not. You must contain your ecstasy, lest you
disturb the lecturing lecturer. You can, if you like, permit yourself a few small shudders of pleasure as you smoke,
but take care not to wear garments which will set up a clatter when you shudder—like taffeta, for example, or
knee cymbals.

Let us turn now to the problem of learning while sleeping. First, can it be done? Yes, it can. Psychologists
have proved that the brain is definitely able to assimilate information during sleep. Take, for instance, a recent experiment conducted
by a leading Eastern university (Stanford). A small tape recorder was placed under the pillow of the subject, a freshman
named Glebe Sigafoos. When Glebe was fast asleep, the recorder was turned on. Softly, all through the night, it repeated
three statements in Glebe’s slumbering ear:
1. Herbert Spencer lived to the age of 109 and is called “The Founder of English Eclectic Philosophy.”
2. The banana plant is not a tree but a large perennial herb.
3. The Archduke Ferdinand was assassinated in 1914 at Sarajevo by a young nationalist named Mjilas Cvetnic, who has been
called “The Trigger of World War I.”

When Glebe awoke in the morning, the psychologists said to him, “Herbert Spencer lived to the age of 109. What
is he called?” Glebe promptly replied, “Perennial Herb.” Next they asked him, “What has Mjilas Cvetnic been called?” Replied Glebe,
“Perennial Serb.” Finally, they said, “Is the banana plant a tree?” But Glebe, exhausted from the long interrogation, had fallen
back asleep, where he is to this day.

© 1962 Max Shulman

Glebe sleeps, but you, we trust, are up and about. Why not improve each waking hour with our fine product—Marlboro
Cigarettes? You get a lot to like—filter, flavor, pack or box.

Dr. Robshaw will visit Davidson Thursday, Nov. 8 and will deliver the Thursday morning message.
