Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A Return To The Lists

Davidson College is related to the Presbyterian Church, and thus has a definite interest in the religious life of its
students. In this respect, it is different from non-church-related colleges and universities, and for this reason, students can expect this
concern to be concretely demonstrated in a religious program.

A key part of the college’s religious program is the Sunday night vespers service. We assume that the purpose of
this required service is to provide a worship experience for Christian students and to expose non-Christian students to the Church
in a positive way. Regretfully, these purposes are not being satisfactorily met by the present system. The compulsory nature of
the service and the antagonistic attitude of most students towards it have made it increasingly difficult for students to worship
if they wish to do so. These same factors together repel students already discontent with the Church.

In view of this situation, we believe that some positive proposals for change should be submitted to the Board of
Trustees at its next meeting. We urge interested students to make suggestions, to discuss them, and to join in an
effort to draw up such a list of proposals. We would like to see the Y.M.C.A. oversee such action, and
would certainly welcome appropriate action from the faculty. We think such a program, drawn up and presented by students, would
receive serious consideration at the Trustees meeting.

In connection with this, we would like to point out the following: Some people have complained that the past two
or three years have seen a decline in the quality of vespers preachers. (This last Sunday's preacher was a notable
exception.) We can only assume that the chaplain’s office is taking these complaints into account and is doing its best
to attract the most outstanding preachers available to this campus. But we do not believe that improving the preaching of
the present services will be enough. We repeat a suggestion made originally last year, that provision be made for substituting
attendance at other suitable activities for vespers attendance. Certainly attending other off-campus, or even on-campus, church services on Sunday ought
to be permitted in substitution for attendance at vespers. Yet we believe other college-sponsored programs of a religious nature could
be substituted also. Such programs as plays, movies, and forums are often deeply moving religious experiences. The recently-shown movie “Through
a Glass Darkly” and the Vagabonds' religious play and discussion were two programs which might have been included under this
proposed system. Above all, however, we urge all students to express their concern and their opinions on this issue, and
to cooperate with the administration, the faculty, and the Trustees, in attempting to make the required weekly religious service a
meaningful experience for as many students as possible.

Future Deadwood?

The Student Council has joined U.S.N.S.A. If you're asking yourself what U.S.N.S.A. stands for, you have already justified the major
point of this editorial. It stands for United States National Student Association. And if this name means nothing to you,
your ignorance should be a source of concern because the Student Council’s action means you are a member of N.S.A.

The fact is you are not alone in your ignorance. Most of your representatives in the Student Council seemed similarly
uninformed about the association when they voted to join it last week. A motion was made and seconded. There was
no discussion. Someone asked, “Is there anything wrong with this organization?” and someone else assured him there wasn’t. Then it
was quietly passed.

We assume that the members of the Student Council know that the NSA has passed resolutions against H.U.A.C. (it stands
for the House on Un-American Activities Committee), resumption of nuclear testing by both the U.S. and the Soviet Union, and
the McCarren Act. We assume that the conservatives on the council are aware that the “Winds From the Right” have
been huffing and puffing against this organization for several years. Most important, we assume the members of the Student Council
are aware of the association’s conception of the students as politically active individuals and are prepared to support that conception.

Last year the Student Council joined the N.S.A. on a temporary basis presumably because it wanted to inform the student
body, and see for itself, exactly what kind of organization N.S.A. was. We heard nothing about it all year except
one speech on its foreign exchange program. Then, as now, only two or three individuals on campus knew anything about
it.

Frankly, we are 100% behind Davidson College joining N.S.A., but we see dangers in the way the Student Council has
“backed” into it. If this attitude prevails, the council will have done no more than create another “deadwood” organization. As
Danny Carrell stated in last year’s campaign, “membership in the N.S.A. will have to be on an all or nothing
basis.” This means that the council should present to the student body, and ultimately act on itself, all resolutions of
the N.S.A. For instance, the N.S.A. is currently carrying on a massive letter-writing campaign to urge Ole Miss students to
avoid any further bloodshed and to protect Meredith. This means that students should be allowed to vote on controversial issues
before they are brought up at the annual summer conventions. Guest speakers, a bulletin board, and columns in the student
articles in THE DAVIDSONIAN; all these are ways to reach through our provincialism. The N.S.A. can be, as we have
previously stated, one of the chief ways of breaking the “apathy-barrier.” We just hope it gets a chance.

The Bible But...

Having been brought up under rules of fair play, a devotion to Mother, and a belief that the U.N. Charter
ought to be canonized, at least, we are completely dismayed by the spectacular play Uncle Sam is making presently in
the Caribbean. After all, we have grown so accustomed to losing ground in the international football arena, or at most
holding desperately onto what is left of the free world, that it is a trifle disconcerting when our side doesn’t
drop back and punt—it simply upsets the natural order of things.

Frankly, we are scared silly. Anyone who is not scared silly is either a fool or running for Congress. We
are also dismayed. We have seen the films of Hiroshima, we have studied our Bibles, we have read of the
wisdom of Gandhi. In fact, we still hold these things to have a great deal of validity. But now we
are confronted with a situation which causes some reversals of our actions, if not our beliefs. Gee, Mom! They're not
playing by the Queensbury Rules at all! This sort of thing could give one grave doubts about the completeness of
his education. Perhaps we should have read Machiavelli instead of Milton, studied human nature instead of the Humanities, and above
all, not cut ROTC nearly as much as we did. It’s almost as if our professors grew up in a
far-off age when nice guys only finished last.

J.M.W.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Bill Hagen

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Willer

Blockade? . . . o o ° o e . o

Foreign Student Attacks U. S. Position On Cuba

By LEE TATSUTA
Japanese Foreign Student

There is no doubt that Okinawa is being colonized by the United States against the people’s own will, though the
reason might be that Okinawa is an indispensable strategic island for the defense of the United States, or one could
say, of the Free Nations.

For those who are not blind because of their self-interest, the complete blockade of West Berlin is quite reasonable after
the United States blockade of the open sea of the Caribbean.

Two hundred fifty miles off the mainland of China lies an island called Okinawa, which has some 600,000 inhabitants. Okinawa
is the most stout superfort of the world now, armed with almost all possible modern weapons. “There is unmistakable evidence
of building of offensive missile sites able to fire intermediate range nuclear rockets” from Okinawa as far as most parts
of China and Siberia of the Soviet Union. That island surely is a “nettle in their flesh.”

Historically, Okinawa belongs to Japan, and racially its inhabitants are Japanese. However, the island is under the strict military administration
of the United States. The inhabitants are not free to use the Japanese flag, and they even need a passport
and visa to visit their own motherland.

Can’t China or Soviet Russia be justified, then, in taking the same steps against Okinawa as the United States is
now taking against Cuba, if the latter could be justified? It is very lamentable that a country which is only
90 miles from the United States is now armed with some offensive missiles. But, let us remember that the United
States has far more missile sites installed all around the Soviet Union, some of them even installed in a country
like Turkey which shares its boundaries with the Soviet Union. If you Americans feel an obsession from the missile sites
in Cuba, how much obsession do you think the Soviet people might be feeling? Why do you see the speck
that is in your “enemy’s” eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how
can you say to your “enemy”: “Let me take the speck out of your eye,” when there is the log
in your own eye?

If your president were to repeat that kind of address several more times, don't you think many of you would
prepare to fight at any time, or prepare to ignore the horrible fact that hundreds of millions of lives, including
those of your mother, sisters, and fiancées, would be lost in the next war?

The headline of the morning paper on Tuesday was, “U.S. READY TO SINK RED SHIP.” Today in the Soviet Union
their paper might be saying “U.S.S.R. READY TO SHOOT DOWN YANKEE PLANE.” At least in Japan this kind of talk
that appeals to the ignorant ruck cannot be seen in the public papers. An open-minded attitude which recognizes the status
quo frankly and quietly with an attempt to refrain from such provocative words and actions: such shouldbe the attitude of
a nation that claims to be “Peace-loving” and that we expect to be the leading country of the free nations.

Jonas and Kitchen: Alike As Two Peas In A Pod
BY ERNEST F. PATTERSON
Professor of Economics

Julian Scheer, former columnist for the CHARLOTTE NEWS once wrote that Representatives Kitchin and Jonas were as alike, philosophically and
ideologically, as two peas in a pod. Any objective and extensive study of their voting records and public pronouncements will
verify the veracity of this statement. Both are to be classed, in the political spectrum, as extremely conservative. There is
considerable empirical evidence to support this conclusion.

For example, an ultra-conservative organization known as Americans for Constitutional Action issues a periodic rating of members of Congress. According
to the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD “the ACA’s rating of a ‘good’ Congressional record is based in part on votes for ‘safeguarding
the God-given dignity of the individual and promoting sound economic growth through strengthening Constitutional government’ and against ‘collective morality and
a socialized economy through centralization of power’.” A member of Congress can score from 0 to 100 on the ACA-Index,
the higher the score the more conservative, and hence the superior, from ACA’s standpoint, is the member. Representative Jonas has
the dubious distinction of having made the ACA “honor roll” with a score of 100, outranking Barry Goldwater, who only
managed to reach 99! Representative Kitchin is a “flaming liberal” by contrast, having scored only 65! It should be noted
that he ranks higher, or lower, depending on one's point of view, than any other member of the North Carolina
Democratic Congressmen.

The Machinists Union checked the voting record of all Congressmen on 10 key issues, including $1.25 minimum wage, NLRB reorganization,
withholding income taxes on dividends and interest, school lunch program extension, world trade bill, and emergency public works bill. According
to the union, Jonas voted “Right,” i.e., agreed with the position of the union, usually considered to be a “liberal”
one, only once, as did Kitchin, though on different issues—Jonas on a bill to retrain technologically unemployed, and Kitchin on
the withholding of taxes on dividends and interest.

When one reads Jonas’ and Kitchin’s speeches in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD on economic issues, or hears them speak in the
current campaign, one is struck by their lack of understanding of the complex economic issues facing the United States today—it
is not necessary to agree with the solutions which are offered, but it is essential to know what the real
problems are—and by their utter failure to recognize and appreciate the revolution in economic theory and practice which has occurred
in the Western world since World War II. Further, when one reads their pronouncements on foreign relations, one is struck
by their failure to grasp the significance of the technological and scientific revolution, the demographic revolution, and the revolution of
expectations which characterize the modern world, the impact of which call for a complete change in our thinking and in
our institutional approach to world problems and foreign relations.

To bring a sad story to an end, the voters of the 8th North Carolina Congressional District have to choose
between two equally conservative and mediocre candidates, and the conscientious voter is hard put to find a reasonable and intelligent
basis for choosing between them.

An Open Letter Home...

Dear Mom and Dad,

I'm sure you saw the President on Monday evening. Excitement over the situation is rampant here at school, and everyone
eagerly awaits further developments. Everybody thinks his hometown will be high on the list in case of an attack. Many
exaggerate, I'm sure. For instance, today a boy from Talladega, Georgia, brought his parents here, to the most isolated place
he could think of, in case they go after the Talladega Sprocket and Tool Co. with a big one.

Speaking of panicking, lots of rooms have been converted into fallout shelters, complete with stores of okra and old issues
of Playboy. Such shelters are closely guarded and violent attacks by fraternity men in search of the invaluable okra are
generally repelled. There's been a lot of criticism of the local confectionaries for their rather exorbitant rates on K-Rations, and
some boys are going to Mooresville, to the Stonestreet Surplus Supply Center for better deals. Rush Wilson has been enjoying
a big revival in the sale of tropical wear, and the drugstore has been pushing mosquito spray and suntan lotion.
Pop Copeland doesn’t have anything the boys need for the situation as yet, but promises to be well-stocked after his
conference with the Third Army Quartermaster General.

The God and Country theme prevailed at Thursday chapel, during which were sung such inspirational hymns as “Onward, Christian Soldiers,”
“When the Saints Come Marchin’ In,” and “It's a Long, Long Way To Tipperary.” This theme will be continued at
Sunday Vespers, this time everyone being required to wear their ROTC uniforms (except the intelligence corps, who will come disguised
as Arabs.)

My roommate stumbled out of bed earlier than usual this morning and went out into the hall, where he encountered
the Observer delivery boy chanting, “I’d rather be read than dead!” His statement was misconstrued by my patriotic roomie, and
a terrific tussle ensued. An economics prof, after being told of the incident, is reported to have exclaimed, “‘Rather ...
mmmm ... than dead.’ Say, that’s a catchy phrase.”

The foreign students today stormed the Dean's office, but they were subdued by a cordon of the Honor Guard and
threats from the baby-faced Assistant Dean to transfer their scholarships to the Union Film Committee.

The language lab has been turned over to the Spanish department, and the chemistry labs have been devoted to the
manufacture of a poison gas called Nair, which, if used against the Cuban leaders, will destroy their public image among
their people.

Tuesday drill was held at Lake Norman, the drill reference was amphibious landings. E Company disappeared, and the ROTC department
has threatened to keep their ten-dollar deposits if they don’t bring back their weapons and shoes by tomorrow. The armory
has been locked since Wednesday, when it was discovered that a colonel in the Peon Army was giving the trigger
housing groups detailed inspections with White Rose jelly and Log Cabin maple syrup.

The Union rings with marching music, student wives are planting victory gardens, and the faculty today votes on whether Regular
Army ROTC officers called to emergency duty elsewhere will continue to be responsible for their lesson plans. The Fox Drive-In
is featuring “A Night At A Cuban Missile Base.” Hattie is featuring a new Cuban beer, Nationalized Bohemian, and the
Veterans Administration has applied for a house on the fraternity court.

Last night the literary societies debated the question “Should we remember the Alamo or the Maine?” The Queens girls have
all been campused because: 1) Tuesday night they riotously toasted American success in the Caribbean with flagons of Cheerwine; and
2) It is well known that they are all so devoted to Davidson boys that if these boys were called
away by Uncle Sam, the girls would desperately follow them.

The IFC announced that Mid-Winters concerts might be difficult to arrange because most good acts will probably be doing USO
engagements. However, the Thirteen Screaming Negroes combo have notified us that they have all failed their physicals and will be
available.

It’s rumored that the surrounding military institutes are unable to assist very much in the Caribbean action due to their
strenuous athletic schedules, but I’m sure many Davidsonians will render valuable service. If the papers stop coming in and radio
goes dead, we only ask to be buried with our Weejuns on.

Your loving son,
DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Are Football Players Christian Gentlemen?

Dear Editor:

Sports Editor Bill Pridgen made a very alarming suggestion in his editorial of last week. We must infer from his
column that some of the Davidson football players are neither “gentlemen” (about football) nor Christians. It comes as a great
shock and disillusionment to certain members of the college community to discover that the official representatives of Davidson (a Christian
college) might not themselves be Christians. This is a serious matter, and perhaps should be investigated jointly by the Faculty
Executive Committee and the YMCA. Maybe the members of the team should be required to take the faculty oath before
they are allowed to play football.

David Suter

Dear Editor:

The purpose of this letter is to explain the protest we made this past Sunday in vespers. We were not
demonstrating against required religious services. As a church-related college, Davidson has a responsibility to the church to include religious services
in the student's life. Our protest was against the form of these services. We feel they do not communicate with
the students. The result is that many are turned against the church. The dress was symbolic of our criticism. The
ROTC uniform represented the regimentation and organization which are choking the church’s real message. Our services of hymns, scripture readings,
and sermons have become an end in themselves rather than the means to understand God's word. The prophet’s garb was
meant to show that there exists the same difference between the dress of the early Christian and the modern churchman
as there does between the early church and the modern church. We feel the Love of the early church has
been lost. We have dressed the church to suit ourselves; made it respectable. In the process the excitement of a
living faith has been replaced with the cold pallor of a dying faith. Our demonstration was an effort to show
concern for the church.

Bill Ferris
Bill Denham

Associate Editor ___ Knox Abernethy
News Editor ____ Charles Dibble
Editorial Assistant ___ Jim Williams
Photographers ___ Buz McCutchen, Bill Ruth
Managing Editors ___ David Stitt, Jeff Wampler
Sports Editor ____ Bill Pridgen
Advertising Manager ___ Charlie Smith
Assignments Editor ___ Charles Ramberg
Circulation Manager ___ Malcolm Lane
Feature Editor ___ Greg Govan
Assistant Bus. Manager ___ Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
