SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1962 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

HIGHLIGHTS and SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

SNYDER SETS NEW RECORD

Freshman Dick Snyder put in quite a performance at the physical proficiency tests this year. Not only did he break
the old total score record, but he broke it by over 85 points. Snyder’s score of 633.8 tops Tom Ross’
old record of 547.6, set in 1959. Although Snyder did not break an event record, he came very close in
two of them. His softball throw of 288 feet was only two feet off the record, and he missed the
100-yard dash record by only .1 second. (And he didn’t even run track in high school.) Snyder is just another
of the fine athletes brought to this school through the efforts of Coach ‘Lefty’ Driesell. The remainder of the freshman
class failed to put in such a fine performance. There were no other outstanding individual performances and the class performance
as a whole was below last year’s freshmen.

109 of the boys taking the test failed it, which represents about forty percent of the class. In 1961, only
twenty-five percent of the freshmen failed to pass the test.

TWO NEW TENNIS COURTS

Two new fast-drying tennis courts are being added to the upper courts by the gymnasium, which raises the total number
of courts on campus to eleven. Future tennis matches will all be played on the upper courts. This will come
as good news to tennis players who often can’t find a free court. We hope more courts will be added
in the future.

FALL PRACTICE FOR TENNIS TEAM

Tennis and soccer coach Harry Fogleman will be taking on added duties this fall as he hopes to hold regular
fall practice for the netmen. This is a commendable effort and should show a positive effect on the team’s performance
this spring. Athletic Director Tom Scott also plans to keep his golfers in practice during the off-season. Much activity is
going on in Johnston these days with the sanding and refinishing of the basketball court. It should be looking good
by the time they’re done. Homecoming dances in the gym won't help the finish any, but a new coat will
be added right afterwards to repair any damage to the finish. A new court for a new basketball team.

SALZER JOINS FOOTBALL STAFF

Bill Salzer, former tackle and co-captain of last year’s ’Cats squad, is back here this fall helping out the coaching
staff as varsity line coach. Salzer was a fine ballplayer and we are sure he will do just as fine
a job coaching.

Yearly Cake Race Set For Freshmen BY JIM HARDWICK Sports Staff Writer

The Class of ’66 will vie for sixty homemade cakes in the thirtieth annual freshman Cake Race Monday at 4
p.m. The Cake Race is an annual cross-country run for freshmen initiated in 1933 by Coach Whittle in order to
arouse interest in track among the freshmen students. The cakes are furnished by the wives of the faculty and administration.
The 1.7-mile contest is run over a grueling course. Starting over part of the cross-country, the course then turns up
a long field cinder track. All frosh are to report to the soccer field at 3:45 p.m. wearing gym clothes
and tennis shoes.

The Indians, always primed for this game, are riding on a new wave of school spirit brought about by Harvey
Stratton, new Catawba head coach. Pres Muller, formerly head coach, resigned last year to return to Lexington High School, where
he had coached for many years before moving to Catawba. Experience was the Indians' big weapon against the ‘Cat eleven.
The team that Catawba threw against the ‘Cats was essentially the same team they had last season. There are notable
exceptions, however. Gone from the Indian lineup is George Worthington, a star halfback who “could have starred for any team
in the nation,” according to Dole. Catawba also lacks Ray Oxendine, who sparked in the last meeting of the two
teams. Dole carried two full units into the game which are capable of going both ways, offensively and defensively. Having
two teams is insurance against any player becoming too tired on the field, and should eliminate the fourth-quarter drag that
plagued the ‘Cats in several games last season. Dole is quick to point out that neither of these teams should
be considered as first or second string units, having divided his talent evenly among both groups. Last spring Dole had
planned to run an extra all-defensive unit, but the loss of some key players forced him to scratch this idea.
Experience, if it works for Catawba, works against the 'Cats in several positions, especially at end and fullback. Not one
of the starting ends on Dole’s two squads had any varsity experience before tonight. Steve Davidson, Will Jackson, and Steve
Heckard are sophomores, and Billy Mills, the only upperclassman, did not go out for football his freshman or sophomore years.
Junior Jim Fuller, an outstanding fullback last fall, was sidelined during the game by a broken foot which added greatly
to Dole’s problems. Besides Fuller, Dole has lost three other men he has been counting heavily on. One of them
is Tom Worrell, a sophomore with great potential who will be out until at least mid-season because of a summer
operation on his injured knee. Joe Jones and Pat Fisher carried the ball in the fullback slot with some help
from Barry Billington, who runs both half and full. With both teams possessing a capable line, passing played an important
part in the outcome of the game. Quarterback Earl Cole for the ‘Cats has proven ability as a passer. In
fact, it was in last year’s Catawba clash that Cole earned his wings, cinching a victory for Davidson with his
fine fourth-quarter passing. Catawba had a new weapon for their passing offense with 6’5” end Bucky Pope, a good athlete
with “a fine pair of hands.” About twenty-five Wildcat gridders saw action against Catawba each quarter as Dole used frequent
substitution. Dick Fulp and John Jernigan saw action at guard and Jim Rhyne at tackle. On defense, Dole used several
alternates including Sam Bowers and George McEver at defensive end and Tom Ross, Tom Day, and David Walker at defensive
linebacker. Tex Cathey and Gene Ferris also saw defensive action against the Indians. Next Saturday the ‘Cats face The Citadel
Bulldogs at Charleston. The Bulldogs, defending Southern Conference champions, will be a tough foe for Davidson.

BOB CORDLE (standing) and MIKE OWEN, two of the ‘Cats outstanding footballers, served as co-captains in the season’s opener against
the Catawba Indians tonight. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Tonight’s Co-captains

The co-captains of tonight's game with Catawba are Bob Cordle and Mike Owen, both senior footballers from Charlotte. Cordle, who
uses his fine speed and agility well in the halfback slot, is also a star sprinter for the track team.
He is a member of the track team.ODK, honorary leader, and he has served on the student council. Owen, a
tackle for the Wildcats, has been chosen to the Scholastic All-American football team. Besides football, Owen is Chairman of the
Honor Court and President of ODK. The co-captains for each week are chosen by Coach Bill Dole from the seniors
who he thinks are performing hard and who also possess leadership potential. At the end of the season, the team
will choose permanent co-captains by elections.

Frosh Gridders Spark During First Workout
BY ROGER DAVID
Sports Staff Writer

Gridiron ‘Cats Claw Catawba Indians in Opener

Starting Line-up

FIRST UNIT
E Will Jackson
Steve Heckard
OT Mike Owen
Bill Dole
Spud Stewart
Norris Williams
Joe Ansley
Earl Cole
HB Bob Cordle
Alex Gibbs
FB Pat Fisher

KICKOFF
Tom Ross, Barry Story, or Dole

Wildcat

SECOND UNIT
Steve Davidson
Billy Mills
Bill Bankfield
Eddie Crutchfield
Russell Walls
Dick Vorhees
Britt Smith
Kent Tucker
Dave Lopp
Barry Billington
FB Joe Jones

PUNTERS — Cordle, Lopp, Bob Joyner, or Heckard

Booters Begin Practice
BY DENNY PHILLIPS
Sports Staff Writer

“These boys have interest and spirit,” said soccer coach Harry Fogleman, “and, if we can get two good goalies, we
should be as strong as last year’s team.”

Soccer team practice started earlier this week, getting ready for their opening contest with N.C. State. Returning lettermen on this
year’s squad include Tarby Bryant, Walt Eckman, Don McQueen, Bob Meldrum, Mike Nemir, Charlie Sassar, captain of this year's team,
Fred Schoen, and Bill Wallace. Fogleman has noticed a “definite interest” in soccer among the freshmen class, but Davidson has
no freshmen soccer team. The season opens October 4th with a game at State, then the ‘Cats journey to Chapel
Hill on October 9th to meet the booters of U.N.C. The first home match will be October 12th, with Appalachian
kicking it out at Davidson. This season's schedule is the same as last year's, with the exception that South Carolina
will not be played. Last year the team wound up with a 5-4 record. Fogleman pointed out that many of
the small college foes have no football team, so that soccer is their main fall sport. Other boys expected to
add strength and depth to this year’s team are Toby Bethea, Jan Brake, Jim Bulla, Glen Hanes, Dave Olin, Zack
Smith, Bruce Swain, Frank Tullock, and Abbott Whitney. The big problem is to find two men to fill the key
position of goalie. Fogleman, besides coaching soccer, intends to begin fall tennis practice in about two weeks, or as soon
as the new tennis courts are completed. Davidson used to be a powerhouse in southern tennis, and Fogleman, with a
“half-dozen excellent freshmen tennis players,” is trying to regain lost glory.

SOCCER SCHEDULE
Oct. 4 N.C. State at Raleigh, N.C.
9 U.N.C. at Chapel Hill, N.C.
12 Appalachian at Davidson
16 Duke at Davidson, N.C.
20 South Carolina at Columbia, S.C.
27 Guilford at Guilford, N.C.
1 Belmont Abbey at Belmont, N.C.
6 Pfeiffer at Misenheimer, N.C.
16 Emory at Davidson, N.C.

About 34 boys have turned out for a freshman football team which Coach Threlkeld seems to think is one of
the best that Davidson will produce. Even after a few days of contact, the team seems to be shaping up
well. Threlkeld was pleased and optimistic after the team ran some Catawba plays against the varsity.

Every member of the Class of '66 is required to enter except those excused for football and medical reasons. Pete
Ashcraft holds the record for the run; 9:34.8. Denny Phillips won last year with a time of 9:54.5. Coach Whittle
always looks forward to the event.

There was some concern last year about depth, but this year, with twice the number of boys, Threlkeld and Pierce
foresee a great deal more overall strength with depth, particularly on the heavy line. Lack of balance in past freshman
teams has usually been a major problem, but the problem is considerably less this year. A combination of two fine
quarterbacks, who can run as well as pass, Sydney Tompkins and John Little, and a set of good receiving ends
should diversify the offense. Paul Ambrose, a good swing end with sure hands, has shown well and seems to be
moving well. Phil Hightower can also be described as aggressive and sure. Stewart Perry has been moved from tackle to
end and is doing well. The coaches have little to worry about in the backfield with Steve Smith, Phil Wells,
and Jerry Blackstock at half, and Pack Hindsley at fullback.

Threlkeld anticipates quite a few other boys to give help as the season gets underway. He is running two units
this year, offensive and defensive, with several boys going both ways. The Kittens have a four-game schedule, starting with The
Citadel on Oct. 11. The only home game is with Furman on Oct. 20. This schedule should offer the class
of '66 a chance to prove that they are “mean as hell and tough as bricks.”

Sophs Will Help Cross-Country
Cross Country Coach Heath Whittle is counting on sophomores up from last year’s fine freshman team to give him the
“strongest cross country team in many years.” The season opens October 3 at Wake Forest. Joining Sterling Martin, last year’s
number one man, and Tim Spiro, who was number three, are sophomores Dennis Phillips, Chester Davis, Tom Heffner, and Ronnie
Reese. These six boys and lettermen Bob Leslie and Charlie Rowe should form the nucleus of the team. Looking at
the schedule, Coach Whittle picked Wake Forest, Furman, and V.M.I. as the tough meets, stating that these teams are subsidized
and that it is difficult for an unsubsidized team to beat them. He also picked West Virginia, V.M.I., and Furman
as the teams to beat in the Southern Conference.

CROSS COUNTRY SCHEDULE
Oct. 3 Wake Forest away
6 Pembroke home
12 Appalachian at Davidson
16 Duke at Davidson, N.C.
20 South Carolina at Columbia, S.C.
27 Guilford at Guilford, N.C.
31 VMI Lexington, Va.
Nov. 1 Belmont Abbey at Belmont, N.C.
6 Pfeiffer at Misenheimer, N.C.
13 Conference Meet Charleston, S.C.

Out Of 5 College Men Come To Johnson's Barber Shop

The gentleman seeking a more trimly contoured shirt will be delighted by our newest design. Fine cotton oxford has been
tailored with utmost finesse to provide a slimmer fit. And of course, there's an authentically flared button-down collar to maintain
the fastidious look you require.

Bush Wilson Ltd.
