FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1962 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

GRIDDERS BEGIN SPRING DRILLS

COACH BILL DOLE and his gridders commence football drills this coming Wednesday with high hopes for another successful session.

Following last year’s spring drills, Dole was prompted to say that they were the best a Davidson football team had
ever had during Dole’s tenure here. Evidently, he was right. The ’Cats compiled a respectable 4-4 record this past fall
(the best since 1958) against some pretty stiff competition. With the University of Virginia being added to next season’s schedule
(Oct. 27, at Charlottesville, Va.), Dole and his men need an exceptionally good head-knocking campaign this spring in order to
get a good head start.

Thirteen seniors will not be on hand to bump heads this spring, but a fairly good crop of freshmen (rising
sophomores) will get a crack at the open positions, and twenty-one experienced lettermen will greet Dole on Wednesday. One setback
for Dole this year came when he learned that quarterback Benny Coxton, who can do almost anything with a football,
will not be able to play this year. Coxton sustained a shoulder injury in the Furman game last fall.

The only major personnel change comes as a result of the news about Coxton. Dole will give Alex Gibbs, a
fleet halfback who was the ’Cats leading ground gainer (260 yards) last season, a try at the quarterback slot. The
rising senior has already had experience throwing the ball. As a halfback here, he has often thrown on a run-pass
option play, and as a tailback for Thomasville, N.C. High School, he often threw on the same type of option.

DOLE NABS LOTS OF LINEMEN AND A HECKUVA WELL-ROUNDED RECRUIT

GLANCING at a list of Dole’s top recruits for next year, we noticed that he is really going after linemen.
Of the top eleven high school football players who have indicated that they are coming to Davidson next year, ten
played line. Probably the best of Dole’s plucks from the high school ranks is Pack Hindsley from Beckley, W. Va.
Hindsley, who stands 6-3 and weighs 190, played fullback, end, and tackle at one time or another during his high
school career. Dole plans to play him at end. In addition, Hindsley is one of West Virginia’s top prep basketball
players, and to top it off, he is Valedictorian of his class. It seems that this young stud has made
nothing but straight A’s since the first grade! He narrowed his many scholarship offers down to two schools—Davidson and Dartmouth.
Believe it or not, he chose us.

PARKER LIKES 7-3 RECORDS

HATS OFF to the wrestling team and Coach Charlie Parker for an excellent season. Parker & Co. finished the regular
season with a 7-3 record, which is the best mark that a Davidson mat team has had since 1935. That
year the Wildcat wrestlers were 7-3 also, thanks mainly to a scrappy sophomore named Charlie Parker.

THE CRYSTAL BALL (NOT AGAIN)

WE PULLED our crystal ball (dusty but still intact) off the shelf this week to see if we could find
out anything about the conference basketball tournament. We saw red hot VPI beat West Virginia in tomorrow night’s finals. The
Gobblers, who lost three out of their first four games, won 16 out of their last 18 contests. Paced by
first team All-Conference members Bucky Keller and Howard Pardue, they went into the tournament with an eight-game winning streak, including
wins over West Virginia, Furman, and Wake Forest.

1st Half Floor Miscues End Tourney Hopes

BY STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

Davidson’s bid to advance in the Southern Conference tournament, being held in Richmond, Va., this weekend, failed yesterday afternoon when
defending champion George Washington handed the Wildcats their ticket home—an 85-81 defeat.

Taking advantage of the nervous Davidson players’ many ball handling miscues in the first half, GW raced off to a
quick 10-1 lead, which they never relinquished.

DYNAMITE

Behind the hot hands of little John Feldman, a 5-10 package of dynamite, the Colonials took a 51-36 advantage to
the dressing room at halftime. Feldman, a second team All-Conference senior, pumped in 8 of 11 shots from the floor
(several from 30 or more feet away) in the first half, during which he tallied 20 of his 27 total
points.

Coach Lefty Driesell’s Wildcats had their work cut out for them after intermission. Behind the board cleaning tactics of big
Bill Jarman and Terry Holland, the ‘Cats closed the gap to 7 points early in the second half, but GW
began a fast-breaking spree, led by 6-8 Joe Adamitis, and ran their lead back up to 19 points about midway
through the half. Davidson spent the rest of the game in a frantic race with the clock. A Colonial freeze
didn’t help matters, and the ‘Cats came out on the short end.

JARMAN AGAIN

Pacing the Wildcat attack was again Jarman, second team All-Conference junior, who scored 26 points and garnered 13 rebounds. His
performance undoubtedly puts him in line for the All-Tournament team. Sophomore Bill Beerman turned in one of his best performances
with 21 points (15 in the first half). Holland and Haywood Evans also hit in double figures with 14 and
13, respectively. Danny Carrell hit 4 and injured captain D. G. Martin scored 3 while seeing limited duty.

In other first round action, VMI ousted Furman, 76-61; VPI clobbered The Citadel, 101-83; and favored West Virginia raced by
Richmond.

SEMIFINALS

Tonight's semifinals find George Washington clashing with West Virginia, and VMI battling with VPI. Tonight's winners play in the finals
tomorrow night, and the winner of that game advances to the NCAA playoffs.

Only Martin and reserve Allan Millar will be lost to the ‘Cats via graduation next season. With the addition of
the tremendous frosh players to the squad, Driesell can expect to improve this year’s respectable overall record of 14-11, and
his team will be geared for a crack at the conference championship in only his third year as head mentor.

Kittens Finish 15-3

The classy Davidson freshman basketball players wound up their season last Saturday night with a 102-80 victory over The Citadel
frosh in Charleston, S.C. Trailing by 43-38 at halftime, the Wildkittens stormed back in the second half for 64 points,
while limiting the Bullpups to only 37. This sudden burst was due mainly to Dave Thomas, whose defensive hustle inspired
the rest of the team to come through with their 12th straight win. In addition, Thomas scored 17 points, and
three others hit in double figures—Fred Hetzel (32), Don Davidson (21), and Phil Squier (16).

Charlie Marcon, Barry Teague, and Tommy White rounded out the scoring with 9, 5, and 2 points, respectively. Thus the
‘Kittens completed a tremendous season, during which they beat everybody on their schedule at least once, compiled a 15-3 record,
scored more than a hundred points in five games, had a 12-game winning streak, averaged 87.4 points a game, limited
their foes to 64.3 points a game, and provided Davidson fans with some of the most exciting exhibitions of basketball
ever witnessed in Johnston Gymnasium. It was generally regarded at the end of the season that Coach Joe Hunt's club
was probably the best freshman contingent in the South and one of the best in the nation.

Matmen Are State’s Best

Coach Charlie Parker’s wrestling team brought home the state wrestling championship this past Tuesday with a 17-9 victory over Pfeiffer.
The Davidson matmen completed a 7-3 season, the best since 1935, including a perfect 5-0 slate against other schools in
this state. During the season the Wildcats defeated wrestling teams from the following North Carolina schools: Pfeiffer (twice), Duke, North
Carolina, and N.C. State. These victories give the ’Cats the right to call themselves the best college wrestling team in
this state. Other victories this season came over Emory and Georgia, while losses were to the always tough conference foes
VMI, VPI, and The Citadel.

Against Pfeiffer only Tommy Wright, 123-pound ace, scored a pin over his opponent. Other Wildcats who came out best include
Dick Wray (130), Billy Mills (167), Jim Alexander (177), and Tom Day (heavyweight). Falcon grapplers gained wins over three ’Cats,
including Linton Wray (137), John Dobbins (147), and Butch LeDoyen (157).

With regular season experience behind them, the local wrestlers journeyed today to Blacksburg, Va., where they will participate in the
rugged Southern Conference tournament this weekend. Davidson finished last in last year’s tournament behind VPI, VMI, West Virginia, and The
Citadel, respectively. (Only five conference schools enter the tournament.) Chances for finishing higher this year are somewhat better, but Parker
and his men know they have their work cut out for them. Five individual defending champions return for this year’s
competition, including Mike Grandstaff, 123, VPI; Bob Robinson, 137, VPI; Al Bamforth, 147, VMI; Jeff Hartsell, 157, The Citadel; and
Dennis Merklinger, heavyweight, VMI. Wright, Mills, and Alexander are Davidson's best bets to bring home a trophy. VPI and VMI
are co-favorites to take top team honors.the best in the nation. 6-8 Fred Hetzel of Washington, D. C., was the
top scorer for the ‘Kittens with 406 points in 18 games for a 22.6 average. Final freshman scoring averages are
as follows: GW, VMI, VPI, AND W. VA. ADVANCE

"HERE’S HOW IT’S DONE," says Davidson basketball mentor CHARLES “LEFTY” DRIESELL (shooting ball) to grinning D. G. MARTIN, also a
southpaw and Wildcat captain. Driesell, Martin, & Co. are in Richmond, Va., this week for the Southern Conference tournament. (Staff
Photo by McCutchen)

Kappa Sigs, Phi Gams Sluggers Start Swinging; Stevens Expects Good Year

The 1962 edition of the Davidson baseball team began official practice this week in preparation for the March 17 season
opener, an exhibition type game with Pfeiffer on the local diamond. The Wildcats compiled a 10-13 overall record last year
and finished 6-6 in conference play. With only one regular (third baseman Russ Cotton) missing from that lineup, Coach Tom
Stevens has a host of veterans on hand this year.

CLINE IS CAPTAIN

Leading the list of returnees is second team All-Conference catcher Harry Cline, a senior and captain. Cline was the club's
leading hitter a year ago with a .330 average, and behind the plate, he is an excellent receiver and field
general. Stevens hopes to have six pitchers that he can call on at any time. With a 28-game schedule (including
four doubleheaders), the ‘Cat mentor realizes that he must have a strong pitching staff.

TOP HURLERS

Topping the list of hurlers are Tommy Hamilton and Tom Harris. Hamilton finished with a 5-5 record last season, while
southpaw Harris had a 2-2 record and a highly respectable 2.16 earned-run-average. In addition, Hamilton will be playing outfield, and
Harris will be covering first base when they are not on the mound. Other top pitching prospects are sophomores Jim
Moore and Earl Cole, and lettermen Jerry Shelton and Graham Showalter, both of whom will see relief duty.

The infield is practically set with Harris, a .310 hitter, at first, Tommy Tuttle at second, and Harry Smith at
shortstop. Who will step into the graduated Cotton's shoes at third is a toss-up between sophomores David Schade and Tommy
Whitfield. Stevens is also counting on sophomore John Baum for utility infield and pinch-hitting duty.

KEYSTONE KIDS

The double play duo of Tuttle and Smith is, according to Stevens, “one of the conference’s best, and the best
I’ve had since I've been here.” Last year the ‘Cats completed 20 double plays in 23 games—most of them coming
around the keystone sack. The outfield will have Ed Hines, Hamilton, Cole, and Shelton, another .310 hitter, alternating. Also, Carl
Rust, a top-flight pinch hitter, and Cecil Holcomb, last year’s home run leader, will see action in the garden. Backing
up Cline behind the plate will be sophomore Eddy Earle. In essence, the outlook is bright for the diamondmen. “If
our pitching holds up,” explains Stevens, “we could be real tough.”

Fraser And Sharp Earn Track Points

Davidson's indoor trackmen managed only 6½ points in last Saturday's Southern Conference meet in Lexington, Va. As expected, a powerful
Furman team took top honors in this year’s meet. Thus the Paladins remained indoor track conference champions. The only Davidson
representatives to score were Keith Fraser and John Sharp. Fraser earned 4½ points by tying for first place in the
high jump with a leap of 6 feet. Sharp got 2 points by finishing fourth in the conference meet.

Fred Hetzel 22.6
Don Davidson 17.0
Charlie Marcon 14.3

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Winning eight of eleven events, the Davidson mermen broke a five-meet losing streak by overpowering the Emory University paddlers, 58-37,
last Friday in the local pool. By winning, the ‘Catfish took a 3-5 record on their trip to Virginia this
week for their final two meets before the conference meet in Charleston, S.C., March 8-10, in The Citadel’s pool. Following
a meet with the Indian tankmen of William & Mary on Wednesday at Williamsburg, the ‘Cat splashers invaded VMI, the
strongest team in the conference, yesterday. The Keydets, who are defending conference champions, are paced by George Collins, the league's
top distance freestyle man. Collins won the 220-yd, 400-yd, and 1500-meter freestyle events in last year's meet.

In their victory over Emory, the Cats were led by Stefan Young and Carter Mebane, who both took two first
places in individual events. Captain Young was also a member of the 400-yd. medley relay team, which also took first
place. Other first place winners were Bill Whittington, Barry Branch, and Tommy French. The following scored points for Davidson: 400
medley relay — French, Young, Jack Hollenbeck, and Bill Ambrose (1st). 220 freestyle — Mebane (1st). 50 freestyle — Branch
(2nd) and Mike Weeks (3rd). 200 individual medley — French (2nd) and Charlie Shapard (3rd). Diving — Whittington (1st) and
Dick Fromm (2nd). 200 butterfly — Young (1st) and Shapard (3rd). 100 freestyle — Branch (1st) and Hollenbeck (2nd). 200
backstroke — French (1st). 440 freestyle — Mebane (1st). 200 breaststroke — Young (1st) and Deets Van der Zee (3rd).

Jarman & Holland Gain Recognition

Davidson's Bill Jarman and Terry Holland were recognized on this year’s All-Southern Conference team, announced this week. Jarman, a 6-5
junior from Gastonia, N. C., was named to the second team. The big redhead was the backbone of the Davidson
attack all season as he averaged 21.2 points and 11.3 rebounds per game. He tied one school record and broke
another. His 39 points against George Washington tied the record for most points in a single game, and his 23
for 27 free throws in the same game set a new record in the free throw department. Holland, a 6-7
sophomore from Clinton, N. C., made the honorable mention list. Holland also carried a big load on his shoulders by
averaging 15.8 points and 10 rebounds a game. He also tied the school’s single-game scoring record with 39 points against
Mississippi College. First team All-Conference included Rod Thorn of West Virginia, Jerry Smith of Furman, Bucky Keller and Howard Pardue
of VPI, and Gary Daniels of The Citadel.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the famous OPEN KITCHEN for a... the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.
C.

Bottled under authority of Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, North Carolina.
