PAGE FOUR - MONSTER RALLY at Cunningham Fine Arts Center last Sunday protested war and nuclear testing. Led by a ghost-faced Dr. Goodykoontz, various war-and-bomb mutations lodged their Bomb Victims, Literature See Eleventh Hour Rally no cot Oe and readings from the war poets. (Staff Photo by Raynal.)

After Vespers Open Houses
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Following is a list of the ten noncurricular books most read by students last year as compiled by the Library staff.

Times Read | Title and Author
56 | Salinger: Franny and Zooey
40 | Stone: The Agony and The Ecstasy
31 | Lee: To Kill A Mockingbird
30 | Heller: Catch 22
30 | O'Connor: The Edge of Sadness
27 | Uris: Mila 18
25 | Lederer: A Nation of Sheep
18 | Porter: A Ship of Fools
18 | Schwartz-Bart: Last of The Just
17 | Cronin: The Tree

This statement is somewhat paradoxical, since he has already attended the University of Texas (where he received his BA), the University of Chicago (where he received his MA and taught for two years), and the University of Florida (where he taught for the past 13 years). Also, he spent the years 1958-59 in study at the University of Chicago under a Danforth Foundation grant and has just recently completed work on his PhD. Already Tilley is quite a scholar. But he is a man of many facets. During the last war, he was the supervisor of inspection for Pratt and Whitney Aircraft Corp. Just recently he published a small book on Henry James, The Background of THE PRINCESS CASAMASSIMA. Asked what he thought of the new humanities program, he replied:

Rogers Receives Rotary Fellowship
Johnny Rogers has been awarded a Rotary Foundation Fellowship for International Understanding to study theology at the University of St. Andrews.

BY ROBBY POWELL
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“I wanted to see what it was like at a small college,” says Dr. W. H. Tilley, Davidson’s newest addition to the English department. In 1962 he organized a group of professors in an organization whose basic principle was that “no two members could be of the same discipline.” Although he likes the variety large universities offer, he feels that they often limit themselves by a lack of communication between their departments. So now he has come to Davidson to see what the small college has to offer and how it works. When prodded for some of his first impressions, he said, “Let me start by saying I came here to find these things out and certainly haven't made up my mind yet. However, I have made some tentative observations. Small colleges seem to be strong in the field of pre-medical, pre-ministerial, and pre-law courses of study, but weak in fields of the arts and sciences. This lack of variety limits the student in making decisions. At large universities, on the other hand, there is a much greater variety of things going on; constantly new ideas are being formulated, and new things are being done. Therefore, the large university seems to attract the creative minds. There is a hunger on this campus to have contact with the world where ideas are being made instead of just being passed on.”

But, taking a different point of view, Tilley has yet another interesting opinion about education at Davidson: “Education has become a ‘commodity,’ not just an interest of the culturally elite as it used to be. So we have the problem of mass education and the problem of how to educate the culturally elite to a greater degree of excellence than the ordinary student.”

BY GEORGE KUYKENDALL
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Approximately fifty students attended an eleventh-hour pacifist rally in front of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building last Sunday night, precipitated by William F. Goodykoontz, Davidson English professor, and ten Davidson students. The participants first appeared in costumes as deformed or wounded persons. Goodykoontz appeared, also suitably disguised, and stated the purpose of the rally. Various poems, portions of stories, and a part of a play were read. These pointed up the futility and evil of war. The rally dismissed and reconvened inside the Fine Arts Building, where the crowd dwindled to about 30. The readings continued. Eventually, as the crowd grew smaller, Goodykoontz invited the onlookers to take part. The rally finally broke up at 12:45 p.m.

The audience was originally attracted by a weird crowd of apparently deformed figures milling about in front of the Fine Arts Building. Eerie strains of music accompanied their appearance. The group of spectators watched for some ten or fifteen minutes when Goodykoontz appeared. With a pasty face and great black hollows under his eyes, he too presented something of an unnatural figure. Goodykoontz recalled the day when Armistice Day emphasized peace. He spoke of an American officer who served in World War I. This officer, John McCrae, wrote a poem which Goodykoontz briefly quoted: “If ye break faith with we who die, we shall not sleep.” The speaker seemed to feel that we have not kept the faith.

One outstanding portion was presented by a character dressed as an army officer but with an ape’s face. He presented certain scenes from novelist Aldous Huxley’s book, Ape and Essence. Reading both the stage directions and the actor’s parts, he presented an effective figure, jumping up and down and screaming “Disloyal!”, “Unpatriotic”, and “Filthy communist.” He held Einstein on a leash, symbolizing the use of science by the base elements in man.

Another striking presentation appeared in the form of a set of Siamese twins, joined from shoulder to foot. They read a poem, “I Sing of Olaf.” Olaf, a peaceful citizen, is drafted. He protests and is forced to fight. On his refusal to fight, he is thrown into prison and dies there. A one-armed student read portions of Catch-22, a recent novel. He read of a bomber flight during World War II. While returning from the mission, the plane ran into some flak. One of the crew was severely wounded. The book was describing the wound rather closely when its message was effectively underscored. One of the onlookers, apparently unable to stand the gory detail, fainted.

The odd hour of the rally was such that it might be held on “the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month.” This was to emphasize the critical import of the rally’s message.

Burts
Kelton
Stroud
Daggy
Lilly
Tilley
Driesell
Martin, J. G.
Tucker
Gable
Richey
White, L.
Griffin
Scott

Fulbright Committee Interviews Eight Men
Eight Davidson students were interviewed for Fulbright scholarships by a faculty committee on Nov. 7. History major Danny Carrell was interviewed for graduate study in the United Kingdom; English major Bill Denham for graduate study in France; Spanish major John McElfresh for study in either Spain, Colombia, or Mexico; history major Bob Murdoch for Ecuador; and math major J. B. Wilkins for study in Germany. Students winning this scholarship will receive expenses for one year’s study abroad, including transportation to and from the country. English major G. T. Abernathy, classics major Knox Abernathy, and history major Neil Nichols are applying for teaching assistantships in India. This field was added to the Fulbright program this year. The faculty committee of Professors G. L. Abernathy, W. P. Cumming, J. O. Embry, and J. A. McGeachy will consider this interview as well as the student’s academic record, emotional stability, personality, recommendations, language qualifications, and leadership potential.In determining the merit of each application. Applications have already been submitted for the Woodrow Wilson, Rhodes, and National Science Foundation scholarships. The deadline for applications for the Rockefeller Brothers Scholarship is Wednesday, Nov. 21. This scholarship pays for one year's study in a seminary. It is open to students who are not fully decided about entering the ministry.

Calvin Candid Camera Films Anniversary Flick
BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

For a moment it appeared as if they were either putting in drink machines or else repossessing the furniture of those venerable establishments—the literary society halls. But it turned out that the large vans were mobile filming units, and the cryptic PRTVC emblazoned on their sides stood not for “Pepsi's Right To Victimize Collegians,” but actually “Protestant Radio and Television Center.”

Why this filming activity? All part of a three-film TV series being prepared for the 1963 celebration of the Sesqui-Centennial (150th Anniversary) of the Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina. Why the filming at Davidson? Naturally because we are one of the Presbyterian Church’s star attractions in this synod and because our beginnings and importance to the North Carolina Presbyterians were almost simultaneous. Besides, what better illustration of Presbyterianism could be given to the viewing public: martyrdom (Don’t laugh—when was your last review?), tolerance (Davidsonians even upset their morning class schedules to hear a rabbi expound on bones and bugs in Baghdad.), and “as sure-as-death-and-vespers” predestination (although there is some uncertainty as to who'll be at quarterback for the next play, in which direction white ducks will come back pressed from the laundry, and what horrible fate awaits those who hazard visits to the infirmary).

What was filmed at Davidson? Various campus scenes, many of them shot last Sunday, when sweatshirts were scarce and shirt-tails were generally tucked in. There was a short filmed message from President Martin, and also some shots of a freshman Humanities section. The $151,000 mobile unit was from the Protestant Radio and Television Center in Atlanta, which is producing all program material for the Synod. It is headed by Dr. Ernest J. Arnold, a former vice-president of Davidson, while the actual film work is directed by the center's vice-president, Carl Degen, formerly director of “Meet the Press” and many other NBC network productions.

Despite the ponderous array of equipment that must be unloaded for each location shot, Degen proudly stated, “We can cap, cover and get moving in twelve minutes after the last scene is shot.” Such speed is presumably vital, since Degen’s budget probably doesn’t cover tickets they might get from conscientious campus cops for not having a college registration sticker.

The three TV documentaries (historical, educational, and future) are tentatively planned for broadcast in March, April, and May of 1963. In addition to the TV programs, similar radio programs are now in production. Perhaps this public airing of the true Davidson will help to counteract all those rumors which we know are going to circulate about “Davidson, that school for jocks,” after we do a little shaking up of the basketball world this winter.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II, and Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Rent a car the BUDGET way, less per mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you need. We feature free hotel and airport pickup and delivery service.

Debate Team At W & L For TKA Tournament

The varsity debaters are participating in the Virginia Regional Tau Kappa Alpha Tournament at Washington and Lee University this weekend. The tournament is sponsored by TKA, national debate fraternity.

The varsity team defeated Gardner-Webb Junior College Nov. 4 in a debate televised from Spartanburg, S. C. Skip Jones and Conrad Shumadine took the negative position on the issue “Resolved: that the Organization of American States should blockade Cuba,” and won the unanimous opinion of the three judges.

The affirmative half of the novice debate team tied for first place in a tournament at Wake Forest Nov. 2. James Curl and George Kuykendall tied for first by winning four of six rounds of debating. Negative debaters Hank Taylor, Bill Pierce, and Albert Keiser won one round of the six. “I think the novices did quite well considering the fact that they have not had much practice,” commented debate coach Dr. J. T. Drake afterwards. “I was especially proud of the negatives because they defeated the team from the University of Pittsburgh.”

The novice debaters will have a meet at Appalachian State Teachers College Nov. 30-Dec. 1. The varsity team will be at Wake Forest Dec. 6-8 for the Dixie Classic tournament.

Speed To Deliver Vespers Address

The Rev. James O. Speed, Jr., '53, will deliver the vespers sermon Sunday evening. He will remain on campus a few days next week to discuss with interested students and faculty members the problem of attracting qualified men to the ministry. Speed is serving presently as Director of the Department of Enlistment at the Board of Christian Education in Richmond, Va. Chaplain Terry urged students to see him as soon as possible if they are interested in conferring with Speed.

Speed was graduated cum laude from Davidson in 1953. While here he held a Baker Scholarship, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, and was a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He received his BD from Columbia Theological Seminary in 1957, graduating highest in his class. He assumed his present post in 1960. Speed is married and has two daughters.

One answer might be to educate them (the “culturally elite”) at small colleges like Davidson. The general atmosphere of ‘conformity’ I have noticed on campus cuts down the scope of ideas.

SOMEWHAT NARROW — Dr. W. H. Tilley gestures his point across in a telling comparison of universities and the small colleges. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Schick designs the electric shaver for sensitive skin. Only Schick makes two different electric shavers... pick the one to match your face! Both new Super Speed shavers have Schick's exclusive washable head, made of surgical stainless steel. Snap it off and wash away dirt, stubble, and germs. Get the new Schick Easy Shine Electric Shoe Shiner for a bootblack shine in 60 seconds!