PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Anderson’s ‘Winterset’ Prepares For Opening

BY CARLTON COLE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Vagabonds will present Maxwell Anderson's Winterset Dec. 11-13. Performances will be at 8 p.m., following a discussion of the work at 7:15 p.m. Winterset treats the probable trials of these hyphenated Americans ending in 1927. The life of a son of one of the men executed after the Sacco-Vanzetti trials occurred in the period of the red scare following World War I. The indignation aroused by their alleged treatment was worldwide: There was a riot in Boston; American embassies were stoned in Europe and South America.

Set in the slums of New York City, WINTERSET is a poetic tragedy contrasting light and darkness in its characterizations. The sets and lighting will carry out this theme of light and darkness, combining realistic effects with the abstract. All the characters are a part of the “darkness” except Mio (Bill Trotter) and Mariamne (Virginia Cornue). Other characters include Jon Miller as Truck; Zach Smith, Shadow; Joe Howell, Garth; Bill Denham, Esdras; Tim Powell, the Hobo; Sue Tilley; Bob Chumbley as Judge Gaunt; Toby Bethea, Herman; Jay Rogers, a Policeman; and Lewis Norman as a Radical.

Before he was executed, Bartolomeo Vanzetti stated, “If it had not been for these things, I might have lived out my life talking at street corners to scorning men. I might have died unmarked, unknown, a failure. Now we are not a failure. This is our career and our triumph. Never in our full life can we hope to do such work for tolerance, for justice, for man’s understanding of man, as now we do by an accident. Our words—our lives—our pains—nothing! The taking of our lives—lives of a good shoemaker and a poor fish peddler—all! That last moment belongs to us—that agony is our triumph!”

Winterset was the second play Anderson wrote in response to his feelings of shame for America; the first was Gods of the Lightning.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1962

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

College Considers Joining Civil Defense Shelter Plan

Dr. Sam Maloney just might be a prophet, much like the ones in the religion he teaches. But there will be a difference in him and in the Biblical prophets on whom he lectures. For Maloney has followers. And now, even while he is on a semester’s leave-of-absence, it appears that Davidson College is trying to be one of his disciples.

Maloney predicted many times in his classes in 1960-61 that an atomic war was the inevitable answer to the world’s birth problem. Each time he predicted, he became more convinced that he was right. He finally reached the belief that it was wise for everyone to construct a bomb shelter to protect their families, and by Nov. 1961, his shelter was completed. But unlike Noah and his ark, Maloney and his bomb shelter...

SEE THAT GIRL? She and 200 other Queens girls will be here Dec. 14 for the annual Union Christmas party. This photo taken at last year’s party shows one band. This year Ben Cole has lined up three.

Union Flaunts Variety For Xmas Blowout

The fourth annual College Union Christmas Party will be held Saturday, Dec. 14, in the College Union, which will be completely decorated in a Christmas theme. Union President Ben Cole stated that over 200 Queens girls are expected for the party and the Davidson-Furman basketball game which precedes the party. All of the girls have been given a 2 a.m. curfew by the Dean of Women. During half-time at the game, the Union has arranged for a...

Council Seeks To End Library Rule Mix-up

Because of the mix-up over the revised Reserve Book Room regulations, the Student Council has requested that the following rules be published.

1. All closed reserve books for daytime use (until 9 p.m.) are checked out for a period of two hours. The signed cards are clocked by machine, showing the exact time the book will be due. Please note the card that is replaced in the book pocket.
2. These closed reserve books may be used anywhere in the building, (but not outside the building). The two-hour limit is applicable to use in the reserve book room, as well as other parts of the library.
3. A fine of 1¢ per minute overdue is assessed for each book.
4. Books on open reserve may be used in the reserve book room without being signed for. However, if a student wishes to use them in some other part of the library, they must be signed for and the cards stamped, as the closed reserve books are. The two-hour limit is therefore to be in effect when an open reserve book is taken out of the room.
5. All open and closed reserve books may be checked out at 9 p.m. and will be due at 10:30 the following morning, with the exception of the books on Humanities closed reserve which are due at 9 a.m.
6. The reserve books may be checked out for the weekends at 4 p.m. Saturday and are due Monday morning at 10:30, with the exception of the Humanities reserves which are due at 9 a.m.
7. Reserve books may be checked out for holidays at 10:30 a.m. of the day vacation officially starts. They will be due at 10:30 of the morning classes officially begin.
8. Reserve books lost should be reported immediately in order that the fine may be stopped. Fines exceeding $5 may be discussed with the Reserve Librarian.

Recognition Awaits Top Student Library

For the second year, the $1,000 Amy Loveman National Award, sponsored by The Book-of-the-Month Club, the Saturday Review, and The Women’s National Book Association, is being offered to a college senior who has collected an outstanding personal library. Chairmen of Campus Library Award Committees will submit nominations to be judged by a panel of judges. Collections, which may not be less than 35 books, will be judged on the basis of intelligent interest, scope and imagination shown in creating the collection, and knowledge of the books as revealed in an annotated bibliography of the collection. Collections of any type (excluding textbooks) are eligible. Inquiries regarding the award should be addressed to Amy Loveman National Award, Box 553, Times Square Post Office, New York 36, N. Y.

Sig Upsilon Adds 5 New Members

The Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon honorary creative writing fraternity has selected five students as new members. The neophytes are seniors Pat Douglas and Tom Wright, junior John Hall, and sophomores Howard Cornelsen and Bob Strauser. Freshmen are not eligible for membership at this time.

In order to be considered for membership a student must submit a manuscript to Sig Up. The members then read the sample, and if it meets certain standards the student is invited to join. The next opportunity for...

Nance Schedules Guitar Program

Fred Nance, classical and flamenco guitarist, will hold a concert sponsored by the YMCA Monday evening, Dec. 10, from 8 until 9:30 in the Morrison Room of the College Union. Nance, who lives in Charlotte, is a professional guitarist who has studied under Andrea Segovia and Sophocles Papas. Besides playing the guitar, Nance also collects and builds them. His collection of thirty-four guitars includes a Remerez and a Hauser, both of which he will use in the program.

Until the time of Segovia the guitar was associated primarily with Spanish folk music and dances. Segovia, however, introduced classical selections to the modern guitarist. Nance will...Present a program in two parts with an intermission between each section. The concert will be divided into classical and traditional selections. Nance will explain each piece before he plays it; and if time allows it, he will take requests from the audience. There is no admission, and the program will be open to all.

Club membership consideration will include the submission of manuscripts for review at a date to be announced next semester. At that time, Freshmen will be eligible. During their regular bi-weekly meeting, the members of Sig Up read and criticize some of their own works. There are also several special meetings and activities each semester. Sig Up plans to have a joint meeting with Queens to read some of their writings at meetings of the Eumenean Literary Society later this semester.

The 22 members have tentative plans of publishing some of their writings in a mimeographed book. A basketball game between the Davidson faculty and the Queens faculty, with faculty cheerleaders from both Queens and Davidson, will be held. Although all Union facilities will be open during the game, the party itself will begin immediately after the game is over. Except for the Snack Bar, Student Store, and the Knovel Knook, all activities are free.

Among the featured entertainment of the evening will be three bands. In the Morrison Room, the Aaron Hinson Quintet will play slow music, while in the cafeteria the Dynamics will play only for twisting. In the “Cave,” the Sid Farrar Trio will hold a beatnik session of progressive jazz and modern poetry readings in which anyone may participate. The Green Room will be the center of Christmas caroling. Harry Causey will be at the electric organ while Dr. Donald Plott of the Music Department will lead the carols for anyone who wants to sing. On the second floor, a bridge room will be set up with cards and tables. Dr. Doug Houchens has arranged for a student art exhibit in the upstairs hall. The music room, which will be stocked with Christmas albums, will also be open. A jesting Santa Claus will roam the Union, while in the Blue Room there will be a professional fortune-teller.

Between 11 and 11:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room, there will be a special skit program presented by seniors from Queens, to be followed by the third annual Faculty-Student Games. After the games, the drawings for the door prize will begin. The entertainment concludes with the crowning of the Union’s Christmas Sweetheart. Entries for this contest have been solicited from Davidson social fraternities, Queens sororities, and Queens dormitories. Kays Gary, columnist from the CHARLOTTE OBSERVER, will be the head judge. In addition to door prizes, small prizes such as cigarettes and passes to the Union films will be given to those who have found small cards hidden throughout the Union.

Dr. Joseph Drake, professor of sociology, and other citizens of Davidson and even of Cornelius began to build shelters in the fall of 1961. Davidson College supposedly became concerned at the same time. President D. G. Martin, Business Manager Robert Currie, Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze, and Dr. John I. Hopkins, physics professor, formed a “nucleus” of a committee to investigate shelter sites for the college. The flurry of activity in the bomb shelter hobby was duly recorded by THE DAVIDSONIAN. But since that time, the news voice of the college has been silent on the matter. But the silence did not come from poor reporting. The only action the college has taken since about one year ago has been to make a survey of the buildings on campus to see if shelter areas could be found and to wait on the reports of a similar survey made of the campus by the government.

The government survey revealed that most of the larger buildings on campus could be used for shelters. Currie said that he was not sure at the time exactly how shelters would be built into the buildings. “I assume hallways in most of the buildings such as Chambers would have to be used for shelter sites,” Currie stated.

Cole said of the party, “If you already have a date, you are invited to come over to the Union for the Christmas party. If you don’t have a date, a large group of girls from Queens will be here.”

The beginning nucleus of the committee to investigate bomb shelters at Davidson has not been expanded. No shelters have been constructed, no food and water stockpiled. In short, the college now stands exactly where it stood one year ago when it made a half-hearted attempt to follow Dr. Maloney, except for the fact of the surveys. But, despite the only half-hearted discipleship, Davidson takes great delight in pointing out the fact that, “We are as well off as any college in the matter of preparations for atomic attack.” Those were the words of Robert Currie last Wednesday morning. The fact is, however, a few schools report that shelters on their campuses have been marked and food and water preparations have been made.

Last Thursday, the four-man nucleus held a meeting which has produced only one new result. The committee decided to meet with representatives of Civil Defense to see if the government will stock shelters here. Currie said, however, “I don’t think that a compromise with them will be likely.” The rule is now that any government-supplied shelters would have to become open to the public. The main drawback to the college stockpiling food and water is the money it would take to maintain such supplies for every student here. “I don’t know what we will do about this,” Currie lamented. “I would hate to say that you and every student should pay a fee of $36 so that we could stockpile provisions for you. That may have to be done if a satisfactory plan cannot be worked out with Civil Defense.” Currie did say that the college might leave it up to the students to pay the money voluntarily. “We may buy a number of survival kits costing about $36 each, and then sell them to students who desire to be protected.”

But, as students have already observed about machinery on The Hill, the wheels turn slowly. Whether or not Davidson will ever be ready to meet an atomic attack when and if it comes is not known at this time, but the time when it will appears to be a long way off. And as far as that $36 from every student to help the college in the “bomb shelter religion,” well, offerings at vespers would be cheaper.

FALLOUT SHELTER — otherwise known as Chambers building. Speculation continues this week over Civil Defense cooperation and the purchase of student survival kits, as well as available shelters, such as this second-floor hall. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).