PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1962

IT’S MY FIRST TIME, TOO. This is reassurance? Buddha grimaced, but bled anyway for the Red Cross and Sigma Nu.
Plenty of grim determination like that shown here on John “Bud- dha” Oehler’s face won the IFC Blood Plaque this
week for the Sigma Nu’s, allowing them to re- tain the award.

After Vespers

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brown
Griffin
Scott
Burts
Kelton
Stroud
Currie
Lilly
Tucker
Daggy
Lloyd
Locke
White
Gable
J. G. Martin
Williams

Silverstein’s Concert: Tale Of An Arty Ghetto
BY BILL TROTTER
Davidsonian Fine Arts Critic

The people are rather nice, once you get to meet them. There is something essentially fine about them, and there
is a spirit to them that is strangely absent on this campus, where the keynote seems to be all work
and no learning. There is an excitement—but it is an excitement mixed with no slight amount of grim determination.

Stinespring At Phi Bete Induction Lectures
BY CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dr. W. F. Stinespring, Professor of Old Testament and Semitics at the Duke Divinity School, speaks in Hodson Hall at
8:15 this evening. His topic is “Some Contributions of the Ancient Near East to Western Culture.”

Gift Fund Initiates American Dreams
BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Every year Davidsonians are more than casually interested in the project to be supported, through the YMCA Gift Fund, by
their hard-earned, and equally hard-given, dollars. But few Gift Funds have created a stir to match that of 1956, when
students voted to support a project which would bring to Davidson a Hungarian refugee family. This was the period of
revolt and mass escapes in the Red-ridden satellite country, and a chance to help a refugee family begin life anew
in history's greatest land of opportunity appealed to the college and to the community in a big way. A November
30, 1956 DAVIDSONIAN editorial stated that “events in Hungary have stirred this student body to interest and sympathy which are
unparalleled since the end of World War II.” A week after the voting, an Action for Hungary rally was addressed
by two men who had escaped Hungarian communist oppression some months earlier. A Student Committee for a Free Hungary solicited
signatures for a petition demanding Hungarian freedom which was sent to the United Nations.

FAMILY CHOSEN
Through Dr. Roland Elliott of Church World Service, a family was chosen from the refugees in Vienna and “Y” money
provided for their passage to Davidson and for a home and necessities of full-scale housekeeping.

ESCAPED DOOMED REVOLT
The Hocsaks had lived in Budapest, where he had been one of his country’s top-ranked swimmers, with a degree in
electrical engineering. He had been active in the ill-fated revolt, but had seized an opportunity to escape when it was
evident that the cause was doomed. A DAVIDSONIAN editorial remarked, “We are uncommonly fortunate to secure a family of the
Hocsak’s caliber. Keenly intelligent and cultured, friendly and anxious to adjust to their new life, the family has already made
remarkable progress overcoming the language barrier and establishing a home here.” The remarkable progress did not stop. Istvan, who became
Steve to the Americans, moved into a job with a Charlotte engineering firm, where he did well. He and his
family prospered, and, two years ago, bade Davidson a fond farewell as they moved to Charlotte and closer to Steve's
work.

LATER SUCCESS
Today the Hocsaks hold a firm place in Charlotte suburbia. Living in a $14,000 brick house complete with swimming pool,
the Hocsaks belong to the Third Avenue Presbyterian Church and the Windsor Park School PTA. The American dream realized? Steve
Hocsak thinks so: “America is much more than I dreamed. I thought it would be good but I never realized
it would be this good.” The success belongs to the Hocsaks, and Davidson College can take an assist.

Union Inaugurates Cole As President
The College Union banquet last Tuesday evening included the induction of a new president of the union, the appointment of
new officers, and the presentation of two original awards. Outgoing Union president Jerry Shelton installed new president Ben Cole. Charlie
Shap-

Student Organists Prepare Recitals
Purk Purkerson, Van Quinn, and Michael Arrowood, members of the Freshman Class, will present the first in a series of
organ recitals at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The public is cordially invited. A native of Greenwood, S. C., Purkerson
will play “Sonata in F Minor for Organ” by Mendelssohn.

winning A.B. and M.A. degrees at the University of Virginia and his Ph.D. at Yale. He held the post of
assistant director for the American School of Oriental Research in Jerusalem from 1932 until 1935. During this same period he
served as field director for the Jerash Archaeological Expedition in Palestine. He returned to the U.S. in 1935, coming to
Duke in 1936. Stinespring returned to Palestine in 1946 as a research assistant selected by the U.S. State Department for
the Anglo-American Committee on Palestine, which was attempting a solution of the Israeli question. His knowledge of Semitic languages and
his firsthand experience in Palestinian archaeological excavations have provided Dr. Stinespring with material for frequent articles in scholarly journals such
as The Journal of Biblical Literature, andHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

the Bulletin of the American Schools of Oriental Research. New IFC (Continued From Page One) Budapest, and Istvan had graduated
from the University of student organ recitals Sunday, April 28 after the Flatt-Scruggs Concert, was discussed; but no decision was
reached. The idea will be presented to the fraternities, and the IFC will vote on the idea at its next
meeting. Two announcements were also made at the meeting: Fraternity presidents must sign a statement of conduct for their fraternities
after the Four Preps concert this weekend, and no- ville’s First Presbyterian Church, comes from Gastonia, N. C. He will
conclude the recital with the choral “We All Believe In One True God” by J. S. Bach, “Te Deum Laudamus”
by Jean Langlais, contemporary French organist, and “Le Banquet Celeste” by Messiaen. Bill Pruitt, a member of the graduating class,
will be presented in his Senior recital on Sunday, May 6, at 4:00 p.m., in the church. The last Sunday,
May 13, at 4:00 p.m. in the church, pard is the new vice-president, and John Rankin the new secretary for
the union. Ben Cole has selected the following students to head union committees: Special Features, Steve Arthur; Publicity, Emory Brown;
Bookshelf, D. C. Gilley; House, Zach Long; Roundtable, Chuck Mitchell; Films, Dave Simpson; Games, Staff Warren. Both committee heads and
new officers will serve until the end of the first semester next year. PLAQUES AWARDED Several awards were made following
a talk by Bill Griffith, Director of Student Activities at the Duke University college union. The following juniors and seniors,
all retiring members of the Union Board, were awarded plaques for their service: Chip Clark, Roger Durham, Harold Fisher, David
Gilmour, Alden Miller, Doug Purington, Pat Rush, Jerry Shelton, David Simpson, and Tom Wright. Ex-president Shelton was also awarded the
miniature gavel given to all retiring union presidents. Wanted: Camp Counselors skilled in arts and crafts to work at a
North Carolina coastal camp. Write Don Cheek, 1601 Hillsboro Street, Raleigh, North Carolina, or call TE 2-0949 in Raleigh. 1318
W. Morehead In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... the famous OPEN KITCHEN Charlotte, N. C.
body gets into the concert without a ticket. Tickets will also be sold at the door. pathos, because there is
something touching about a starving man taking food. Strangely enough, the people in the Ghetto are rather happy about being
there. They even feel sorry for the people who are on the outside. This week’s meeting of the Ghetto was
attended by a total of 104 people. But this is enough to constitute a full meeting. or left suspended, maybe
to be picked up again, maybe to be left for more exciting ones. The idea takes shape, a feeling that
is honest and quite true—that the artist has found in these people, something which he respects, a knowledge and a
critical worth which he responds to—he would have excused himself politely long before now if there were not. BIDS FAREWELL
There was a slight wait for the violinist and his accompanist to come over from the auditorium. The coffee had
already begun to flow, the cinnamon crunchies brought out by the Union were already staining the lapels with powdered sugar.
The people who had come over had a moment to collect themselves, discuss the concert, form perhaps some of the
questions they might want to ask the artist. And when he finally has to go, he shakes his head smilingly,
and in a tone of one who has enjoyed a good argument and has enjoyed expressing himself, “Well, I hadn't
planned to get into an argument with real musical sophisticates out here in this part of the country.” And it
makes you feel good. And, if you've got eyes and ears, you know damned well what he means by “this
part of the country.” CANDID CONVERSATION When Mr. Silverstein came in, the gathering became at once a close and free
affair which need not feel ashamed or provincial to any artistic function anywhere in this country, at any college. There
is to artistic, particularly musical, sessions like this, a spontaneity and flow that is truly amazing. In seconds, the soloist
was answering questions, offering opinions, on a wide variety of questions. There is a common joy and delight that is
indeed rare when something like this happens—it stems partially from the rewarding experience of talking to an artist as a
fellow human being, of a loosening of the usual hesitancy that accompanies most such meetings. Scene: coffee table, with small
circle of people surrounding the violinist. Someone mentions Mr. Silverstein’s position as concertmaster of the Boston Symphony; there follows an
appraisal of that orchestra’s new conductor—a candid and enlightening exchange. Then someone asks: “What do you think of the Sibelius
Concerto? I think he's a vastly underrated composer.” The artist stirs, he turns and for an instant there is absolute
equality—they become simply two music lovers ready to argue. TIME FLIES “Really? I think he's vastly overrated...” And so it
begins. But his comment, Davidson, is one you might sincerely be proud of. Pity it has value only inside the
Ghetto. VIRTUOSO Joseph Silverstein is flanked by admirers at the coffee hour after his Monday evening performance. The recital concluded
the 1961-62 Artist Series. (Staff Photo by McCutchen) your own future... An invitation to shape for all employees. Salaries and
benefits are comparable to those offered by other stable industries. Those seeking positions with General A graduate seeking his way
in the world has the best opportunity of achieving his goal if he starts with firm ground under his feet.
This is an assurance at General Telephone. As a major communications company, “Gen Tel” has the solid stability of a
public utility, together with the added stability that is a substance of growth. In addition, General Telephone Companies make every
effort to provide the best living climate for all employees. As a step toward planning your future, ask your Placement
Director for a copy of our brochure on Management Careers. GENERAL TELEPHONE EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES: The General Telephone Company of North
Carolina has many employment opportunities for college-trained people. Contact your Placement Office for full information. America’s Largest Independent Telephone System.
