SPECIAL WIRE FROM GHANA (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

CAT NINE VISIT BLACKSBURG (See Page Three)

VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1962

All this for me? Ex-DAVIDSONIAN editor Laurens Walker presents Tom Loflin the D. Grier Martin Award for Best Reporter at the newspaper’s annual banquet April 5. Applauding between the two is new editor David Dillard. Walker was speaker at the banquet, which was also attended by Dr. Frank Price, the first DAVIDSONIAN editor. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Lame Ducks OK Bylaw Additions

In its last official meeting Wednesday night the outgoing Student Council passed two new bylaws which will be added to the constitution. The first created a Magazine Advisory Board for Scripts 'n Pranks. This board will be composed of the editor of the student magazine; two members of Sigma Upsilon, one of whom is an underclassman, appointed by the president; one member from each literary society appointed by the President; a student appointed by the chairman of the Fine Arts Department; a member of the Student Council appointed by the President of the Student Body; a faculty member selected by the Board; and a faculty member appointed by the President of the College.

BOARD DUTIES CITED

The Board shall determine and continuously maintain the general aims of the student magazine and shall assist the editor in achieving these aims by advising him and by discovering and channeling to him material for his editorial consideration. The Board shall select candidates for editorship of the student magazine from recommendations submitted by the staff of the magazine. The Board shall meet at least four times each year, including meetings after the selection of the new staff and before the submission of the budget of the magazine. The candidates who have been selected for editor of next year’s Scripts ‘n Pranks are Doug Ackerman and Porter Haliburton. They will present their platforms in next week’s paper and elections will be held on Monday, April 23.

SECOND BYLAW

The other bylaw which the Student Council passed set up a Student Activities Committee which will work in conjunction with the Student Council in issuing charters to all campus student organizations excluding national social fraternities. Each organization to be recognized on campus must obtain a charter which must be renewed annually. The Student Council will grant a charter to any organization having an active membership, a body of officers, and a purpose beneficial to the Davidson student community.

COMMITTEE NAMED

Fulfillment of these requirements shall be determined by the Council on the recommendation of the Student Activities Committee. The Committee will be composed of the President of the Student Body, the first and second Vice Presidents of the Student Body, a member of the Student Council appointed by the President of the Student Body, the Dean of Students, the Coordinator of student activities, and a member of the faculty appointed by the President of the College.

Dillard Announces Newspaper Staff For Coming Year

The DAVIDSONIAN staff wound up the celebration of the completion of its fiftieth volume of newspapers with a banquet held Tuesday evening, April 5, in the Morrison Room of the College Union. Dr. Frank W. Price, editor of volume I of the DAVIDSONIAN, and Laurens Walker, editor of volume forty-seven, were special guests of honor. During the course of the banquet, former editor Walker presented the D. Grier Martin Award for the best DAVIDSONIAN reporter to sophomore Tom Loflin. Also at this time, David Dillard accepted the position of Editor-in-Chief from outgoing editor David Jordan. This week's DAVIDSONIAN is the first to be published by the new editorial staff.

Handling the business end of volume fifty-one for Dillard is Ed Willer, and helping the new mentor in the positions of Associate Editors are Bill Hagen and Mac Plaxico, both veteran staff members. Bill Ruth is filling the post of Assistant Editor, and David Stitt and Jeff Wampler are the Managing Editors. Other staff appointments include Bill Pridgen-Sports Editor, Bob Bethel-Assignments Editor, Greg Govan-Feature Editor, and Charles Dibble-News Editor. The DAVIDSONIAN will maintain its volume fifty photographer McCutchen along with its three cartoonists Doug Ackerman, Dan Adams, and Joe Howell. The new staff is rounded out by Malcolm Lane, Circulation Manager and Rich Finch, Assistant Business Manager. Joe will also write some articles.

Wildcat Handbook Editor Seeks Aid

Wildcat Handbook Editor Frank Stafford is issuing a call for men interested in working on the freshman guide. There are opportunities in both advertising and writing for the incoming year under the jurisdiction of the Publications Board. Stafford plans to retain the format of this year’s issue for the 1962-1963 edition, making a few changes in the location of some articles. A Charlotte firm will print the Handbook, and it will be sent to the Freshman class several weeks before the beginning of Orientation. Anyone wishing to participate in the publication of the Wildcat Handbook should contact Tim Kimrey in 110 Richardson Dormitory.

Two New Profs Hired, Six To Leave School

Two new professors have been approved by the Board of Trustees and will come to Davidson next fall. Several others are pending approval at the May meeting of the Board. Eugene F. Miller will come to Davidson as a political science instructor and Jesse Clifton Albergotti will be an assistant professor of physics. Miller holds an AB and an MA in sociology from Emory University. He is now a Danforth Fellow at the University of Chicago. Miller plans to complete work on his PhD in political philosophy in 1963. He is married and has one child. Albergotti, a bachelor, is a native of Columbia, S. C. He has his AB from Wheaton College and is a Woodrow Wilson Fellow at the University of North Carolina where he expects to finish his PhD in nuclear physics late this summer.

Six faculty members will be absent next fall, either on leave or as a result of having taken positions elsewhere. Wade Burley, assistant professor of education, is returning to graduate school at the University of North Carolina to complete his PhD. Also on leave this fall will be Richard R. Bernard, professor of mathematics, who has received a National Science Foundation grant for a year’s study at Dartmouth; Horace A. Bryan, associate professor of chemistry, whose first semester sabbatical will be spent at the University of London; and Samuel D. Maloney, associate professor of Bible, who will study at Yale while on sabbatical leave next semester. Leaving for positions at Char-

Scabbard And Blade Taps 13

The Davidson College Scabbard and Blade held its tapping ceremony of cadets for initiation on Tuesday, March 27. The following cadets were tapped: MS III’s—Joe Ansley, Bob Cordle, Alec Gibbs, Lawrence Kimbrough, Larry Leafer, John Rogers, and Rutherford; MS IV’s—Dave Lovette, John Sharp, Nat Watson, Jim Woods, and Stefan Young. Lieutenant Colonel Paul R. Wheaton, Professor of Military Science, was also tapped as an honorary member. Scabbard and Blade is a national honorary military fraternity whose purpose is to further military education. Selection for membership is based not only on achievement on the drill field but also in the classroom. Cadets must have at least a “B” average in ROTC, as well as an overall “C” average.

Mike Owen has been elected chairman of the Honor Court for the 1962-1963 school year. Owen, a Charlotte junior, was elected Wednesday by the members of the Honor Court to succeed the present chairman, Harrison Wellford. Owen is a physics major and has been selected for the All-Southern Conference Academic Football Team. He is also a member of the Beaver Club and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. In the same Wednesday meeting, Charlie Rowe was elected as recorder for the Honor Court. Rowe, a Lynchburg, Va. sophomore, succeeds John Rogers in that office. Rowe is on the tennis team, runs cross country, and is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Workshop Dramas Have Easter Theme

Two medieval mystery plays dealing with Passion themes will be staged by the Vagabond Workshop next Thursday at 8:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. “The Second Trial Before Pilate” from the English York Cycle and “The Redentin Easter Play” of continental origin are in modernized adaptations recapturing the earthiness of the original,” commented Director W. F. Goodykoontz. The plays will be fully staged by twenty

Whistler Wanted

On Thursday, April 12, when the assembly speaker, Dr. Freeman, announced his topic, at least one student gave a whistle of mock astonishment. I would very much like to have the opportunity of talking with the

Rogers Will Lead IFC

The final IFC concert weekend of the current school year will feature The Four Preps from 8-10 p.m. tomorrow in Chambers Auditorium. The Four Preps are the youngest vocal group with a major recording label, exhibiting their talents on Capitol Records. Members of the group are Marvin Inabnett, high tenor; Bruce Belland, lead tenor; Glen Larson, baritone; and Ed Cobb, bass. Larson and Belland wrote their first hit, “26 Miles.” The same two alsowrote the group's biggest hit, “Big Man,” which became the number one record in the British Isles. Their most recent hit is “Down by the Station.”

JOHN ROGERS — Debate Team Takes Second In Tourney

YMCA Discusses Theology Positions

The group has appeared on several shows, including the Ed Sullivan Show, Lawrence Welk, and the Tennessee Ernie Ford Show. They have also appeared in such night clubs as the Coconut Grove in Los Angeles and the Lotus Club in Washington.

Although the dorms will not be open for dates this weekend, housing facilities in and around Davidson are filled with students. One important note is that the IFC will insist on students having their tickets at the auditorium door this weekend, and no exceptions will be made.

The YMCA is sponsoring a study group on three conflicting points of view on theology. The three concepts, liberal, new reformation, and conservative, will be discussed in separate meetings and a fourth discussion will compare and contrast what has been presented. Dr. Russell T. Montfort of the Davidson Methodist Church will take the liberal view and present it Wednesday, April 18 at 4 p.m. in the Blue Room of the Union. The neo-orthodox or new reformation viewpoint will be presented by Dr. Louis B. Schenck of the Bible Department at 9 a.m. on Monday, April 16 at the same place. Dr. Wilson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Kannapolis, will speak from the conservative standpoint Monday, April 23 at 9 a.m. in the Green Room. Students interested in participating may sign up at the YMCA office.

The Harvard debate team visited Davidson April 6, defeating Wilkerson and Shumadine by a two-to-one decision of the judges. The team was again defeated three days later at the hands of Washington and Lee in a debate televised by WUNC-TV, Chapel Hill. The Davidson team, composed of Bob Liewellyn, Tom Poston, and Harry Daniel, took the negative position on the topic “Resolved: That Capital Punishment Should Be Abolished.” The total won-lost record to date for the Davidson debaters is 58 rounds won, 30 rounds lost.

Seven Fraternities Plan Activities

Seven fraternities are planning social activities for this weekend in connection with the concert tomorrow night. The Pikas and the Sigma Chis are having formal dances. The “Dream Girl Ball” of the Sigma Nu Fraternity, with a 100% contribution, won the Best Pledge award. Alpha Tau Omega was second with 90% while Beta Theta Pi contributed 63%. The Sigma Chis announce their Sweetheart tonight at their annual Sweetheart Dance. An after-dance party will follow.

The novice debate team, which has won trophies in earlier competition and is composed of debaters Tom Goyne and Doug Wilkerson, will take part in the semi-annual IFC-ROTC blood drive. A total of 276 pints of blood was donated to the Mecklenburg County Red Cross blood bank. The ATO's contributed the largest number of pints.

New members of Tau Kappa Alpha, honorary debate fraternity, will be initiated at the annual banquet May 5.

NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

Honor Court Names Four Preps Leader And Marshall Rowe As Recorder

Fill Out IFC Posts

The Interfraternity Council, with newly-elected members voting for the first time Monday night, elected Kappa Sig Johnny Rogers as next year’s president to succeed Beta Bob Waugh. Phi Gam Larry Leafer was the only other person nominated for president by the council, and in a secret ballot vote Rogers came out the winner. The IFC president is the official representative for the council in its dealings with all outsiders.

Leafer was the winner in the election for secretary, defeating ATO Frank Stafford and Phi Delt Bob Marshall. Leafer takes over his post from Wyche Fowler, a position that is, on the IFC, a combination of vice-president and secretary. The IFC secretary presides in the absence of the president, keeps records of all meetings, and handles the file of all records and reports. Marshall and Stafford were the nominees for treasurer, with Marshall being elected as successor to Clay Atkins.

WAUGH BOWS OUT

Waugh said, in his farewell speech to the council, that he appreciated and enjoyed the opportunity of being president. “I think you elected a real fine slate of officers this year, too,” he added. He concluded his remarks by saying, “Each of you has an important job because the council pretty well expresses the opinion around the court.”

Rogers, upon taking the chair, thanked the council for electing him. “Sometimes I shiver when I think of the job Bob did. I hope I can do as well,” he said. Rogers later told THE DAVIDSONIAN: “I am looking forward to working with the IFC under the new constitutional amendment and will do the best job I can. I feel we have a good slate and a good council, and I will need all the help from them I can get to do my job. I hope they know that.”

BARBEQUE PROPOSED

The amendment to the IFC constitution that Rogers referred to states that all fraternity presidents are to be considered non-voting members of the IFC and that in the future the IFC is to be the official liaison between the fraternities and the administration and faculty. In the past, the Presidents’ Club has been the liaison. In other action, a proposal that was made in an earlier IFC meeting to have a barbeque on (Continued On Page Four)

Birch Coordinator Blasts Governmental Controls

BY BILL RUTH
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

Last Monday, the “Thunder on the Right” placed its bronze cannon on the Davidson campus in the person of Arthur Lyons, North Carolina Coordinator of The John Birch Society. In his chapel talk, Lyons drew supporting comments from the Bible and the oft-quoted lines of Patrick Henry, “Give me liberty or give me death.” He praised the “ideals and ordeals” of JBS members and their “dedication to Christian principles.” He called for “less government at all levels, thus a better world.”

EISENHOWER - TRAITOR

At the coffee hour several more Birchers appeared, nestled close to the directive right wing of Coordinator Lyons. As questioning began, Lyons was called upon to qualify his statement that Former-President Eisenhower was a traitor to his country. He proceeded to define traitor as one who either deliberately or unknowingly gives aid and comfort to the enemy. As for the origin of the name of the Society, Lyons explained that John Birch was a young Christian missionary to China who, as a result of 400 bayonet wounds in the head, died a martyr to the cause against the spread of Communism — the first American casualty in a third world war.”

SOCIETY ATTACKED

The Birch Society has been attacked by such prominent publications as Time magazine for its very radical views and approaches to the issue of Communist infiltration in American schools and church organizations. Robert Welch, founder of the Society, suggests that opposition on such grounds is like saying: “My mind is made up. Now don’t confuse me with the facts.”

On March 22, 1961, L. Mendel Rivers, Congressman from South Carolina and recent speaker at Davidson, rose in defense of the John Birch Society on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Rivers was on campus early this year to express his views on conservative issues.

In Rivers’ Congressional District of Charleston, South Carolina, the News and Courier printed the following: “Communism has few admitted friends in America. But none of its enemies are more dogged, determined, or down-right hostile than are the members of the John Birch Society.” Such was Lyon's roar.

(Staff Photo by McCutchen)

SINGING THE BLUES’ favorite tune is Arthur Lyons, N.C. Coordinator for the John Birch Society. After a talk in assembly Monday, the Birch official faced a large squad of student and faculty questioners, who drew forth the statement about Dwight Eisenhower, “a traitor to his country.”