FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1962 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

“Little” Man Takes Top

Who is the most outstanding individual performer in any sport at Davidson? Unless you knew more about him, you would
hardly suspect that it could possibly be that small, slender boy who rides the unicycle all over campus. In fact,
you would be more prone to think that the only thing that he could have a chance to win would
be a smallest boy on campus contest (his 110 pounds does make him a top contender in this category). However,
this same boy, who, in case you haven't guessed yet, is Sterling Martin, is the star of the 'Cat cross-country
team and is currently headed for his third straight All-Conference berth in that sport. This will make him one of
the few athletes in Davidson's history to be a three-time All-Conference choice.

Tuesday, Martin again broke the new cross-country course record in a tri-match with Richmond and Pembroke, leaving all other runners
far behind him. Martin’s time for the match was 22:12, and for this outstanding performance, he was chosen for “Wildcat
of the Week” honors this week. Cross-country coach Heath Whittle had only praise for Martin, saying that he was the
finest runner that he had coached in over fifteen years. In speaking of Martin’s performance Tuesday, he said that Martin
could easily have passed the two-minute mark, but that he just wasn’t pushed. Running so lightly that he almost looks
like he was floating, and with a sprig of grass that can always be seen out of the corner of
his mouth, Martin makes one of the most grueling of all sports look easy. He makes up with stamina what
he lacks in size.

HIGHLIGHTS SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

A TIRED MARTIN

Whittlemen Meet VMI Wednesday At Lexington

BY DENNY PHILLIPS Sports Staff Writer

The Davidson cross-country team will trek to Lexington, Va., next Wednesday to run against the harriers of the Virginia Military
Institute. The ’Cats will be putting their 3-3 season record against a strong VMI team. Coach Heath Whittle said, “It
should be a good meet. Our boys are ready for them.”

Last Friday, the Davidson runners journeyed to Furman and ran well against last year's Southern Conference champions. Dennis Patterson, Furman’s
ace runner, set a new course record of 20:18 for the flat 4-mile course. Sterling Martin, Davidson's No. 1 man,
finished second in 21:45 to suffer his first defeat of the year. Furman won by the rather slim margin of
nine points, 23-32 (low score wins).

The past Tuesday, Davidson completely outclassed the runners from the University of Richmond and Pembroke to win a decisive victory
here. Sterling Martin, setting a new course record every time he runs, lowered the time for the 4-mile course to
22:12. He was ably assisted by Dennis Phillips, Chester Davis, John Barrow, and junior Tim Spiro.

The Davidson freshman team has been active also. They lost to the Furman freshmen by the score of 22-33. Then
they got on the right track and defeated runners from the University of Richmond and North Mecklenburg High School last
Tuesday. Andy Little finished in second place, running the two-mile course in 11:03. Steve Gill finished third and was followed
by Harry Blakeslee, John Lewis, and Bill Briggs.

VMI, invade Charlottesville

Virginia enters the fray with three wins and only a 20-15 defeat at the hands of Virginia Tech marring its
record. Among Cavaliers’ victories are a win over the Wildcat’s tormentor of last Saturday, VMI, and a 19-7 conquest of
William and Mary, who tied Davidson.

Davidson’s Wildcats, licking their wounds after last Saturday's 20-7 lashing by VMI, will invade Charlottesville tomorrow to battle the University
of Virginia’s rising Cavaliers. Game time is 1:30 p.m. in Virginia’s new stadium.

BY JOHNNY CLARK Sports Staff Writer

Last week, Virginia defeated its Atlantic Coast Conference foe, Wake Forest, 14-12. Virginia's coach Bill Elias, who is last year’s
Atlantic Coast Conference Coach of the Year, last year led his team from the doldrums of major college football when
the Cavaliers compiled a 4-6 record. Under Elias, the Cavaliers broke a disastrous 28-game losing streak, the longest in the
history of major college football.

For the first time this year, Senior Kent Tucker will be starting at quarterback for the Wildcats. He replaces Junior
Earl Cole, who was victimized for four interceptions against VMI. Cole has completed 32 of 82 passes this year, with
seven interceptions, and Tucker has completed 9 of 16, with one interception.

Assistant coach Dwight Shoe, who scouted the Cavaliers in their homecoming win over Wake Forest last week, commented, “Virginia has
a well-balanced attack. The team has good offense, good defense, and a lot of depth. It has few standout weaknesses.”
Powerful fullback Ted Rzenpoluck is the workhorse of the Virginia backfield. “He looks very good and they run him quite
a bit,” observed Shoe. Quarterbacks Gary Cuozzo and Carl Kuhn pilot the team.

ACTING AS THIS WEEK'S co-captains, BILL DOLE (kicking) and

There is definitely a tone of optimism in the voices of most of Davidson’s coaches when they talk of their
team’s prospects for the coming year, leading us to believe that this will be a good year for athletics. Almost
every sport can hope to at least equal the record they had last year. Judging from the evidence we can
gather, this trend towards more success at Davidson could easily be a tendency which will extend at least for several
years into the future, due to a large number of freshmen and sophomore athletes, among whom there are many really
outstanding performers.

There are several tangible factors involved in this rise in ability on some of our teams. In tennis, this factor
is Coach Harry Fogleman, a nationally known tennis coach, who came to Davidson last year from Cincinnati. Although Fogleman’s efforts
probably won't show up too well this year, because of losing four of last year’s six top men, it won't
be long before he builds a powerhouse of a squad. Fogleman, with his name as a drawing card, has recruited
as fine a bunch of freshman netters as Davidson has ever seen, and the indications are that he will be
able to continue drawing good boys. This year’s freshman standouts are Dick Hurd, Woody Cleveland, Bill Council, Jeff Franks, and
Jim O’Callaghan.

There are several sports where sophomores are making or will be making up almost the whole squad, thus assuring a
strong team for years to come. Coach Heath Whittle’s harriers are one of these teams. Five fast sophomores make up
the bulk of his squad, although they can never quite catch Sterling Martin, who is the team’s only senior. In
golf, Coach Tom Scott reports that the greater part of the strength of the team will be taken from last
spring’s fine freshman team. Macky McClelland, Tom Romoda, Albert James, Jim Cooper, and Billy Ross all have a good chance
to earn starting berths.

By far the best-known bunch of ex-freshman athletes are those that belonged to last year’s famous freshman basketball team, probably
the best freshman team in Davidson's history. Coach “Lefty” Driesell will make extensive use of these sophomores in trying to
improve last year’s 14-11 record, facing the toughest schedule of any Davidson team. This schedule includes national champion Cincinnati. But
Davidson’s good basketball teams won’t stop even when these current sophomores graduate. We understand that Dick Snyder may prove to
be just as good as, if not better than, any of the current varsity players. Ronnie Stone is another tremendous
basketball player.

These aren’t the only sports that could be mentioned. Coach Charlie Parker reports that this year’s wrestling squad should be
better than the one that came out with a 7-3 record last season (the best in any varsity sport). We
interpret this trend, if it really is a trend, to be a good one. From all indications, the overall record
of all sports this year should be better than last year, and next year should be even better than this
year. The continued influx of excellent coaches plus continued alumni and student participation in the athletic program could lead to
a new era in sports at Davidson.the Cavalier attack. Both are efficient ball handlers and accurate passers. The top halfbacks
are Bobby Freeman and Doug Thompson, who had a 4.2-yard rushing average last year. With lettermen at every position, the
Virginia line is solid. Massive Dave Graham, a tackle, —--

Davidson thinclads took seven | oe C/ ‘Cats. (Staff Photo By Joe McCutchen)

Booters Take 2-2 Record To Guilford Tomorrow

Tomorrow afternoon Davidson's soccer team carries a 2-2 record to Greensboro, N.C., to battle the Guilford College booters. The 'Cats
record was evened last Monday when they lost to a powerful Duke team here, 5-0. Guilford has just recently taken
up the sport, but nonetheless seems to have a tough team. Last year Davidson fielded a team of reserves and
freshmen against them, and lost badly. A large part of last year’s Guilford team were foreign exchange students. They defeated
Appalachian 5-2, while the 'Cats barely managed to squeeze by them, 1-0.

Coach Harry Fogleman has expressed concern over whether goalie Jim Bulla would be able to play in the game. Bulla
suffered a head injury while trying for a diving interception. He was one of Davidson’s few bright spots Saturday, and
has had dizzy spells. The rest of the team seems to be in good shape.

Despite the lopsided score, Fogleman appeared pleased with his team’s efforts in the Duke game. “The boys really put out.
We used a crazy defense in which we almost always had two men in the goal.” Duke Coach Jim Bly
told Fogleman, “Your defense in the first half was so good and so confusing that I was concerned about the
game.” (The Blue Devils are undefeated and number Navy among their victims.) However, in the second half, the extra running
caused by this defensive tactic got to the fullbacks and halfbacks. Duke scored four more goals to turn a close
game into a rout. “The boys simply ran out of gas,” lamented Fogleman.

Last Saturday night the Wildkitten gridders stunned a strong Furman Frosh squad 14-0 in taking their first decision of the
year. Quarterback Sid Tompkins scored both touchdowns, one on a quarterback sneak and one on a bootleg play. The touchdowns
were scored in the second and fourth quarters. Dick Terry kicked both extra points.

Coach Donald Threlkeld was pleased with the way the 'Kitten line contained the Furman offense, stopping it once on the
ten-yard line and once on the five. Threlkeld called the game “a real team effort.” The ‘Kitten victory was all
the more pleasing save in the Duke game.

SOPHOMORE BOOTER HOWARD MORRIS tries to take the ball away from No. 15, a Blue Devil forward in Monday’s game
against Duke. Duke won the game 5-0, literally overpowering the 'Cats. (Staff Photo By Joe McCutchen)

Halfback Pat Fisher will not make the trip due to an injury, and Dick Vorhees, a guard, is on the
doubtful list.

Next week Davidson's gridders will do battle with the Furman Paladins at Richardson Field. The Paladins have dropped their last
four contests this year after winning their first two games. Last year they skinned the ’Cats 45-19.

Kappa Sigs Take Flickerball Lead

Possessing undoubtedly the highest scoring flickerball team ever assembled at Davidson, the Kappa Sigs rolled to their eleventh straight win,
and virtually clinched this year's title as the previously unbeaten Betas were upset by the Sigma Chis in intramural action
this week.

This afternoon the classy Sig machine battled the Betas as they closed out their season in hopes of an unblemished
record and sole possession of the flickerball title. Last year the Kappa Sigs and Betas shared the championship.

The main cogs in the Kappa Sig machine this year have been tailback Johnny Rogers, halfbacks Johnny Almond and Buddy
Dubose, ends Harry Tart and Jimmy Hendrix, center Eddy Dole, and guard Rick Lowery. Top reserves include Howard Arbuckle, Frank
Tulloch, Durwood Settles, Jamie Bryant, and Britt Smith.

Fogleman Cuts During Fall Practice

Tennis coach Harry Fogleman, after observing fall tennis practice, has cut his varsity down to eleven men. Fogleman says he
plans to retain a traveling squad of seven or eight for his twenty-game schedule next Spring. The members of the
varsity tennis squad are Johnny Ariail, Bob Austell, Frank Baumgardner, Bill Bachlund, Fred Lopp, Gene McCutchen, Dave Orr, Rick Reid,
Bill Schutt, Bill Wideman, and Joe Wolfe. The squad will continue practicing until the weather prohibits it.

Coach Fogleman is now in the process of cutting the freshman squad. The freshmen are playing a double elimination tournament
to establish who will be on the squad.

Sophomores In Annual Field Day

On Wednesday the Freshmen won the annual freshman-sophomore field day by a score of 61-52, according to Spud Steward, freshman
advisor. The field day consisted of five events. These were track, tennis, volleyball, tug-o-war, and basketball. The scoring on these
was as follows:

Basketball — 35 points
Tug-o-war — 20 points
Volleyball — 20 points
Tennis — 5 points
Track — as many points as each team scored.

The sophomores had to forfeit 25 points when they were unable to organize either a tug-o-war or tennis team and
hence had to forfeit both events. The freshmen were able to mount an easy victory in the volleyball event. In
a best of three series the frosh won 21-4, 21-6. The sophomores proved their strength in the track events, however,
being able to nip the frosh 17-16 in a close contest. Allan Turner proved to be the sophomores’ big gun,
picking up six points for a first in the 100-yard and 220-yard dashes. Greg Gates and James Bryant each picked
up four points for the frosh.

In the basketball game the sophomores again emerged victorious, dropping the freshman basketballers, 78-63. Fred Hetzel towered over everyone in
the game, picking up most of the rebounds. Several freshmen also looked good including Dick Snyder, Ronnie Stone, and Bill
Tetrick. Fogleman said, concerning the freshmen, “This group compares favorably with any freshman team I have had in nineteen years
of coaching.”

TRACK RESULTS

120 Low Hurdles: Bryant (F), Gates (F); Loftis (S). (5-0)
100 Yd. Dash: Turner (S), Guyton (F), Bryant (F). (10.3)
220 Yd. Dash: Turner (S), Gates (F), Gibbs (F). (24.8)
440 Yd. Dash: Gill (F), Watson (S), Rifkin (F). (54.3)
Mile Run: Davis (S), Barrow (S), Little (F). (4:54)
440 Relay: Sophomores

1-F STANDINGS

W L
Kappa Sig 11 0
Beta 8 1
KA 9 2
SAE 6 2
Independent 7 3
Phi Gam 5 5
ATO 4 4
Sigma Chi 4 5
Phi Delt 4 6
Pika 2 8
Pi Kapp 1 8
Sigma Nu 0 9

Fogleman has coached at Duke, Cincinnati, and Florida. Fogleman pointed out Dick Hurd, Woody Cleveland, Jeff Frank, Bill Council, Jim
O’Callahan, and Dave Mescham as especially impressive.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST

We Feature Free Hotel and Airport Pickup and Delivery Service. Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II and Chevrolet Impalas at
low rates. Rent a car the BUDGET Way, less per mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you
need.*
301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte 376-0213
