FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1962 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

HIGHLIGHTS & SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

The completion of Lake Norman next spring will offer an excellent opportunity for the expansion of the athletic department into water sports. I don’t necessarily mean water sport competition on an inter-collegiate basis, but even this wouldn’t be beyond the realm of possibility. Many Eastern schools like Princeton and Dartmouth have Crew teams, and another Southern Conference school, the University of West Virginia, has a sailing team. However, for the more immediate future, I was thinking more along the lines of intramural athletics. If the athletic department would be willing to purchase a dozen or more sunfish or sailfish class sailboats, these small craft could be used for racing in an interesting and enjoyable addition to our intramural program. Nor would the benefits be confined to competitive sports. Pleasure sailing, canoeing, water skiing, and others could be worked into programs under the supervision of the athletic department in such a way as to pass off some of the compulsory P.E. requirements. Certainly, there will be an excellent opportunity for the broadening of the athletic department into new areas.

PARKER TO REFEREE IN WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS

Wrestling Coach Charlie Parker can look forward to a busy summer: Soon after school lets out, Parker will be heading for New York to referee in the National A.A.U. Wrestling Tournament. The tournament will be held at the New York Athletic Club during the first week in June. The results of this tournament will be used to determine who will represent the United States in the World Championships, which will be held later in June at Toledo, Ohio. Parker will also serve as a referee at this tournament, which will be conducted under Olympic style wrestling rules rather than collegiate rules. This will mark the first time that the World Championships have ever been held in this country, and we will act as host to some forty nations who will be sending teams.

SHORTENED GAMES IN ACC AN IMPROVEMENT

The current attempt in the Atlantic Coast Conference to speed up baseball games seems to be meeting with success. According to Wilton Garrison in Wednesday’s Charlotte Observer, coaches report that they are cutting down on game time by twenty to thirty minutes. The coaches plan to recommend that similar rules be adopted for all college baseball. If adopted, these rules would make baseball a more interesting sport to watch and would perhaps improve attendance at our games, which certainly wouldn’t hurt anything.

MORE NEWS ON ‘LEFTY’

Coach ‘Lefty’ Driesell is having another hot prospect down this weekend. He is Chris Kinum, a 6’4” forward from East Orange, N. J., who was first team All-State. Lefty calls Chris “one of the best ball players in the country.” Recently, Driesell was guest speaker at the annual Winston Salem News-Sentinel banquet for the All-Northwestern All-Star basketballers. He is the first coach outside the Big-Four ever to speak at this banquet.

Spring Practice Closes With Tomorrow's Game

The Wildcat gridders wind up spring practice tomorrow, capping the thirty-day, twenty-session season with a four-quarter intersquad match. Though off to a hesitant start due to rain, the spring sessions appear to have been a success. Spring training is designed primarily to give the coaches a preview of the coming fall and to give the players a chance to work out kinks. Drills stress mainly basic fundamentals, grooming upcoming sophomores. Likewise, much of the scrimmage time is devoted to polishing plays, fitting in new replacements, and greasing up the old. Most of the positions for next fall's forces have been filled more than adequately. The ends have been bolstered somewhat; there is good depth and added potential in the middle of the line, especially at center; and the halfback slots are overflowing with talent. The ‘Cats, perhaps, have adequately compensated for the loss of an outstanding senior class. All in all, Spring Practice may well be the portent of an even better fall; tomorrow's game will give some indication.

Netters On Wednesday

When the Davidson tennis team acts as host to the Bulldogs from The Citadel, the Wildcats will probably find really tough going, as Fogleman rates the Bulldogs “one of the best in the Southern Conference.” The Citadel recently took a second place in the South Carolina inter-collegiate tennis tournament. Playing on home courts Wednesday, the Cats dropped a 6-3 conference decision to Furman, a team that was beaten earlier in the season by The Citadel. Fogleman was not too pleased with the match with Furman, saying, “the team looked better against Duke and Carolina than against Furman.” Last Friday the netters lost to Duke, 8-1, with junior Bobby Austell, playing the number one position, as the only one able to halt the Devil tide. After a brief journey into South Carolina Saturday where they trounced Erskine, 9-0, the ‘Cats returned to the “big time” Monday and were in...Turn thumped by the Carolina netmen, 9-0, at Chapel Hill. North Carolina State will be here next Friday to challenge the Davidson netters. Furman, 10-3 and 10-2. Again it was a case of poor fielding and hitting as the ‘Cats committed nine errors, and only collected ten hits for the afternoon. Furman, on the other hand, demonstrated the tremendous hitting they have had all year. The Paladins, with six regulars batting three hundred or better, blasted twenty-two hits, including a three-man home run traveling four hundred feet, and three ground rule doubles which bounced over the fence in the spacious ballpark. After tomorrow's game, the ‘Cats play two non-conference teams, entertaining Mercer for two next Monday and Belmont Abbey in a single game Wednesday, also at Davidson.

Council Vetoes I-F Pony

Led by two PC runners, CHARLIE ROWE and BOB SCALES round the far turn in the two-mile run in Tuesday’s meet with Presbyterian. Scales has an added problem with an unannounced entrant, DR. STAPLE’S dog. The dog seemed to want to enter every event. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

Tennis Tournament

In Wednesday night’s IMAC meeting, the athletic council decided not to hold the Inter-fraternity tennis tournament this spring. In other business taken up at the meeting, the council decided that I-F softball will be played by means of a double elimination tournament with the Phi Delts, Kappa Sigs, and Betas drawing first-round byes on the basis of wins Wednesday afternoon. Also, the deadline for all I-F events has been set as May 11. Volleyball will resume action today as soon as all results are posted.

SOFTBALL RESULTS

Wednesday marked the opening round of I-F basketball, and six teams saw action. In those games, the Phi Delts downed the Sigma Nus, 6-2; the Betas downed the Independents, 14-7; and the Kappa Sigs outscored the Pi Kapps, 22-3. These games will not count in the round-robin results.

Cordle Takes WOW For 13 Point Showing

This week Junior Bob Cordle has achieved the rather unusual distinction of receiving recognition as the “Wildcat of the Week” for the second time. Cordle is usually thought of as a pint-sized halfback for Coach Dole’s gridders. It was in that role that he received the WOW award last year, when—in his first varsity game—he led the Wildcats to an 18-6 victory over Catawba. This spring, however, with the permission of Coach Dole, Cordle is sitting out spring football practice in order to render his services to Coach Whittle’s track team. Cordle, a Charlotte native, has been a consistent winner thus far this spring in the 100 and 220 yd. dashes. In between dashes, he manages to place high in the broad jump competition. The most recent outstanding performance of the speedster was in the dual meet with Presbyterian College last Tuesday. In that meet, Cordle overcame some competitors for victories in the 100 and the 220. In addition, he placed second to teammate John Chiles in the broad jump, bringing his point total for the day to 13 to lead the ‘Cats to a resounding, lop-sided victory over our Presbyterian cousins, 89½ - 41½.

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Order your subscription now so that you may receive all next year’s DAVIDSONIANs beginning with the first issue next September. Don’t miss important campus news.

Name: _______________
Address: _______________
— I Enclose Three Dollars
— Bill Me Later

The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N.C.

AT RICHMOND BY CHARLIE SHAPARD

Davidsonian Sports Reporter

Thinclads Battle G-W; Tough VPI Future Foe

The Davidson College Cindermen travel today to meet with the University of Richmond in a conference dual meet at Richmond. Next Tuesday, the Wildcats journey again to Virginia to meet VPI, who is termed “very strong” by Coach Heath Whittle. On Wednesday, the Wildcats, led by Bob Cordle with 13 points and Andy Boggs with 11 points, romped over Presbyterian College 89½ - 41½. Boggs took firsts in the discus and in the javelin while Cordle took firsts in the 100 and 220 yard dashes. Whittle was well pleased with this win, one of the team’s strongest showings of the year. “This year's team has some very outstanding individual performers that compare with Davidson's previous best,” said Whittle, “however this year’s team lacks depth, especially in the 880 and 2-mile run. It is good to have firsts, but a team needs seconds and thirds to win.”

NEWS-PIEDMONT RELAYS

On April 14, Coach Whittle carried a small group of Davidson thin-clads to the News-Piedmont Relays, which were held at Furman. Cordle, along with John Sharp, Avery Burns, and Ken Kelly, participated in the 440 and the 880 relay. Winning their heat in the 880, the Wildcat relay placed fourth in the event with a time of 1:31.5, breaking the Davidson College Relays record. Don Davidson, a Wildcat freshman, placed fifth in the javelin and fifth in the shot put. Andy Boggs, participating unattached, placed fourth in the javelin. “This meet was perhaps the fastest meet ever for the News-Piedmont Relays,” stated Whittle. On Monday, the Wildkittens topped South Mecklenburg High School. The freshmen team has some excellent talent that will greatly aid next year's varsity. Pacing the freshmen are Chester Davis, Tommy Heffner, Don Davidson, and Bill Wallace. On April 28, Davidson College plays host to the Davidson College Relays, which is expected to have a strong field of entrants and good competition.

1318 W. Morehead

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
Charlotte, N.C.

OPEN WIDE and SAY A-H-H-H!

Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina