FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1962 —— THE DAVIDSONIAN

(1) End Steve Heckard catches pass. (2) He is hit by Furman’s Sammy Pickens. (3) Several Paladin footballers pile on
and are penalized fifteen yards for a big ‘Cat Gain.

'Cat Firers Face Furman Rifle Team

HIGHLIGHTS

This afternoon at 1:30 Davidson’s Sharpshooters met Furman’s riflemen in Greenville, S.C. It was the second match of the year
for the ’Cat rifle squad. Six Firers made the trip. They are Bill Blakley, Ronnie Lewis, Jim Young, Dick Levy,
Lowell Kirkman, and Ronald Rudolph. Sgt. Clifton Newby, team coach, said that he expected tougher competition from the Paladin harriers
than the ’Cats had in their first meet, a tri-match with Wofford and Presbyterian College. The ‘Cat firers took that
match with a score of 1358. Wofford was able to score 1331 and the P.C. firers shot a 1323. High
scorer for the match was Bill Blakley with a 283 out of a possible 300. Continued high scores should put
Blakley in contention for a position on the All-Conference team.

Frosh Close Season

Davidson's freshmen gridders travel to Shelby, N.C., to play Gardner Webb Jr. College tomorrow. This is the Wildkittens’ final game
of the season. Capt. Donald Threlkeld, freshman team coach, said that Gardner Webb has a very strong ground attack but
does little passing. He commented, “They have small fast backs and a big line, just like we do.” The frosh
mentor added that Gardner Webb uses the same type of defense as the ‘Kittens and a similar offense. He also
said that he expects to pass more against Gardner Webb than the ‘Kittens have previously. A comparison of game scores
throws no light on the probable outcome of the game. The Furman frosh downed Gardner Webb 14-0, and the ’Kittens
overcame Furman by the same score. However, Gardner Webb beat Ferrum Jr. College earlier in the season 12-0, and Ferrum
plodded to a 7-0 victory over the Davidson frosh last Saturday. Commenting on last Saturday’s game with Ferrum, coach Threlkeld
had nothing but praise for his defensive unit which played a “whale of a ball game.” This same defense blocked
three Ferrum punts and held the winners to one first down in the game, which was played in a veritable
quagmire.

BY BILL PRIDGEN

HOW THE CONFERENCE SHAPES UP

Taking a quick look at Southern Conference football it’s not hard to see who the probable champs are. VMI moved
to a 5-0 conference record last week with a 16-7 victory over The Citadel. The only thing standing between the
Keydets and the conference crown is a tough VPI squad, possessing a mediocre 2-2 conference and 4-4 overall record. This
record is somewhat deceptive, however. This VPI team is the same one that pulled off a surprising upset against Virginia
and was almost able to knock off Army. VMI will have their hands full on Nov. 22 when they tangle
with the Gobblers if they want the glory of the crown. Sitting back and waiting for VMI to make a
slip is West Virginia with a 3-0 conference record. They only play four conference games this year, and, although this
is enough to make them eligible for the crown, it means that even if they don’t lose a conference game
they can still lose the championship, since VMI plays six conference games. We are still picking West Virginia as probable
conference champs, however. They have a powerful team and shouldn't have any trouble polishing off their one further opponent, The
Citadel. Whereas VMI is just as likely to drop a decision to VPI. Looking over the Southern Conference as a
whole, it seems that the year went pretty much as was expected, with few surprise upsets. Perhaps the most remarkable
upsurge of any team has been that of William & Mary, a team only able to win one game last
year, and who now sit in third place in conference standings with a 3-2-1 record. Another fact that isn’t too
hard to see from looking at the standings is that unless Davidson beats Richmond tomorrow, the ’Cats will wind up
in the Conference cellar. With a victory, they could find themselves sixth in conference standings.

BASKETBALL ON THE MOVE

This year’s basketball season isn’t even underway yet, and they’re already thinking of bigger and better things. Athletic Director Tom
Scott revealed this week that at least two new top-notch teams will be added to the Wildcat schedule for the
1963 and 1964 seasons, with prospects for adding several more good teams. The ’Cat basketballers have been scheduled to play
Ohio State in Ohio in 1963 and here in 1964. Another top team scheduled for the 'Cats is St. Joseph,
always a power in the East. They will play here in 1963 and in Philadelphia in 1964. There is a
strong possibility that three other teams will be added to the 1963 basketball schedule. These teams are Marquette, Virginia, and
Alabama, whom the ’Cats dumped twice last season. Four games have already been scheduled for the Coliseum in Charlotte, an
increase of one over the three scheduled there this year. To provide for expected larger crowds in Johnston Gymnasium this
year, arrangements have been made to add 500 seats. (We wonder where they’re going to find room.) Scott is also
planning to change all of the seating on the east side of the gym into reserve seating. What're they going
to do when we become national champions?

DAVIDSON OVER RICHMOND

Tomorrow’s game will be a critical one for the ’Cats, determining whether they have a break-even season and whether or
not they will grace the bottom of the conference cellar this year. For this reason, we pick the ’Cats in
an upset victory over the Richmond Spiders. The 'Cats have the ability to take this one if they get mean.
We think they will. Davidson 20, Richmond 14. The crystal ball sees a bad day for Southern Conference teams. We
pick them as follows: Penn State 34, West Virginia 20. Wake Forest 21, VPI 7. Clemson 30, Furman 7. Memphis
State 14, The Citadel 0. William & Mary 6, George Washington 0. VMI 15, Holy Cross 7.

Offensively, Threlkeld acclaimed the strong running of quarterback John Little and fine blocking by the line. In a vote held
Wednesday by the freshman team, Woody Hill and Pac Hinsley were elected team co-captains.

RENT NEW CARS AND TRUCKS AT BRED SCHOEN

Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II, and Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Rent a car the BUDGET Way, less per
mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you need. We Feature Free Hotel and Airport Pickup and Delivery
Service. 376-0213 301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte

BY BILL PRIDGEN Sports Editor

Davidson’s Wildcat footballers close out their 1962 season tomorrow against the Richmond Spiders. The game will be played here, starting
at 2 p.m. This will be the ‘Cat's last chance to come out with a break-even season, taking a 3-4-1
record into the contest. The Spiders claim a 4-3 overall record. The game will also be the ‘Cat squad’s last
chance to escape from the conference cellar. They have an 0-3-1 conference record so far.

WON THREE STRAIGHT

The team that they're going to have to beat to come out with an even record is somewhat of a
Johnny-come-lately squad. The Spiders dropped three of their first four contests, and at that time didn't look like very stiff
competition. However, they came to life and bombed their next three opponents, two of them upset victories. Three weeks ago
the Spiders started on the move by dropping Boston U. to a loss. They followed up with a surprise win
over Cincinnati, 21-20, and last week they overpowered George Washington, 17-14.their only conference win. The biggest reason for Richmond's comeback
can be found in the quarterback slot where senior Mel Rideout holds sway. He is possibly the best quarterback in
the conference and is definitely a pro prospect. End John Hilton is the favorite receiver of Rideout passes: He is
big and speedy. The line isn't a weak spot on the Richmond squad either. Lettermen man most of the positions
from end to end. Their only weakness is in tackle depth. For their running attack, fullback Larry Deco is the
Spiders’ most dependable ground gainer. He is aided by halfback Brent Vann.

“BIG AND QUICK”

Head football coach Bill Dole looks toward the Richmond game with little optimism. He said, “They didn't get organized until
midseason, but they’ve developed into a real tough squad. They're big and quick.” Speaking of John Hilton, he said, “They've
got a big end that they throw to a lot. Richmond’s passing offense is a good one.”

Wildcats Close Season Against Richmond

Hurting Dole tomorrow will be the same problem that has plagued him all season, injured players. Back Pat Fisher is
only one of the players who will see only limited action because of injuries. Dole isn’t planning many lineup changes
for tomorrow. He will, however, be starting Earl Cole at quarterback instead of Kent Tucker, who started in the 'Cat's
last two games.

14-7 FURMAN LOSS

Looking at last week's 14-7 loss to Furman, Dole had only praise for most of the team, particularly the interior
linemen. “All the interior linemen did a good job containing Furman’s backs, except the defensive ends—they couldn't control the end
sweeps,” commented Dole. He particularly praised Bill Bankhead for his playing, and fullback Jim Fuller for his hard running through
the Furman line. Last week’s game was a tough one for the Cats to lose. Playing a fine ball game
all day and matching Furman yard for yard, they went down late in the fourth quarter when they were unable
to stop the Paladin’s effective use of the end sweep. Furman scored their second and decisive touchdown with only four
minutes left on the scoreboard clock. The 'Cat touchdown was scored on a pass from Kent Tucker to David Lopp
on a fake field-goal attempt, in the third quarter. Bill Dole kicked the extra point.

The annual I-F wrestling tournament will be held Monday and Tuesday nights in the gym. Matches will start at 7
p.m. IMAC President Steve Clark announced that all weigh-ins had to be completed by 4 p.m. Monday. All freshmen are
eligible for the tourney and all upperclassmen are eligible unless they have earned half of a wrestling letter, or are
out for wrestling at present. The SAE’s are the defending tourney champs.

ALL-STAR TEAM

In a vote held yesterday among the members of I-F flickerball teams, the 1962 flickerball All-Stars were chosen. Johnny Rodgers
led the balloting and will serve as honorary captain of the team.

FIRST TEAM
Johnny Rogers, Kappa Sig
Rick Lowery, Kappa Sig
Tommy Hamilton, Beta
Rick Smyre, KA
Ken Kelly, Phi Delt
Haynes Kelly, KA
Buddy DuBose, Kappa Sig

SECOND TEAM
Jimmy Hendrix, Kappa Sig
Dee Fuller, Independent
Sammy Going, Phi Gam
Harry Tart, Kappa Sig
Nat Harris, Phi Delt
Dave Johnson, Independent
Steve Clark, Beta
Eddy Earle, Kappa Sig

FINAL I-F STANDINGS
Team W L
Kappa Sig 12 0
Beta 10 2
SAE 10 2
KA 9 3
Independent 7 5
ATO 6 6
Sigma Chi 6 6
Phi Gam 5 7
Phi Delt 5 7
Pika 3 9
Pi Kapp 2 10
Sigma Nu 2 10
SPE 1 11

Captains Elected

In an election held by the football team on Monday, Mike Owen and Bob Cordle were voted co-captains for the
season. Coach Bill Dole was pleased with the election, saying, “they both are fine boys and good ball players.” Cordle
and Owen will serve as co-captains for the Richmond game. They also were co-captains of the Catawba game. Owen, a
tackle, is from Charlotte. He is also president of ODK, honorary leadership fraternity, president of GSE, physics fraternity, and chairman
of the honor court. Cordle, a halfback, is also from Charlotte. He is a letterman in track, a member of
ODK, and has served on the Student Council.

A coat for all seasons

THE DUNDALK MAINCOAT by LONDON FOG with zip-in genuine Alpaca lining

Comes the cold snap and you stay snug and warm. The clue: a pure Alpaca lining, the very finest made.
Woven of rare imported Andean Alpaca wool, it wards off winter's briskest blasts while keeping you dry and comfortable. Zip
out the lining, and you have a smart Maincoat when the spirit and weather move you, in the famed London
Fog tradition. Pure Calibre Cloth (65% Dacron/35% Cotton), totally washable. In the following colors: $49.95

ALSO THE NEPAL $37.5

Bush Wilson Lin.
