FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1962 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

FORMER WILDCAT STARS MEET AGAIN

WHEN DEAN RUSK returned to his alma mater this week, two of the men he was most anxious to see were D. Grier Martin and Frontis Johnston. You see, these two men not only attended Davidson when Rusk did, but they were teammates of the Secretary of State on the Wildcat basketball team.

The 1930 Davidson contingent was led by Johnston, who was an experienced senior forward, captain, and the team’s leading scorer; Rusk, who was a starting junior center and the team’s third-best scorer; and Martin, who was a promising sophomore with the team’s seventh-highest number of points. The ‘Cats were a pretty good club that year as they defeated some highly regarded teams, including North Carolina and Wake Forest. Their thrilling 22-20 win over the Tarheels was one of the season's highlights. Another highlight came the night that Johnston scored an amazing 22 points. That feat could be compared to a 50-point performance these days. A good example of the difference in total points scored in those days and the number scored today is a comparison between Johnston and current Wildcat star Bill Jarman. Johnston led the team his senior year with 147 points, while Jarman has pumped in over 500 points.

Following a tour into Virginia for three games during that 1930 season, the following excerpt appeared on the sports page of the February 13 edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN: Rusk reached the form he displayed last season and ran wild in all the games to lead his teammates in scoring for the trip. He rang up 34 points in the three games, getting eleven points against both V.M.I. and Roanoke, and raising his mark to an even dozen points in the final contest with Virginia Poly.

The following year, 1931, star Johnston was gone but Martin was beginning to show his right to fill the former’s shoes. Coach Younger shifted the 6-2 Rusk to forward in order to make room in the pivot for the lanky Martin. One of the big victories that year was a 26-19 triumph over N. C. State. The following paragraph appeared in the January 15 edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN concerning that game: Grier Martin was high point man of the game and put up a beautiful floor game, while the floor game of Rusk aided materially in the Wildcat victory.

At the end of the season, Rusk and Martin were still in the limelight. Following a 35-26 victory over South Carolina, the February 26 edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN had the following to say about the game: It was the remarkable second-half shooting of Dean Rusk that spelled defeat to the struggling South Carolinians. The Davidson Rhodes Scholar sank five field goals in the second half that kept the Wildcats leading throughout. Grier Martin was high point man for the night with 12 points, closely followed by Rusk with 11.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet At the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 13:8 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

Matmen Pin State; Hit Pfeiffer Next

Following a Wednesday night victory against N. C. State, Davidson’s matmen will be seeking to close out their regular season with a win at Pfeiffer this Tuesday. It will be the Wildcat’s second meeting with Pfeiffer this year, having defeated the Falcons earlier, 17-13. A win against Pfeiffer will give the grapplers a 7-3 record for the season.

In Wednesday's action in Johnston Gymnasium, Davidson thoroughly defeated N. C. State, 25-10, in a match in which the Wildcats took 6 out of 8 weight classes. Davidson’s Dick Wray, Butch LeDoyen, and Jim Alexander scored falls, and Tom Day wrestled an exceptional match in defeating Billy Sullivan, State’s 230-pound heavyweight, who is a former high school state champion. Results of the match are as follows:
123—Tom Wright (D) won by forfeit.
130—Dick Wray (D) pinned Fred Cook.
137—Steve Barnes (NCS) pinned Linton Wray.
147—George Athparn (NCS) decisioned John Dobbins.
157—Butch LeDoyen (D) pinned Ellis Whitt.
167—Billy Mills (D) tied Owen Simmons.
177—Jim Alexander (D) pinned Paul Tucker.
Hvy—Tom Day (D) decisioned Bill Sullivan.

Led by 123-pound Mike Bisard, the Davidson frosh routed State’s yearlings, 26-8, in a preliminary bout. Bisard is Coach Charlie Parker's best prospect for next year. He has compiled a 4-1 this season. Johnston Gym will be the scene of some more wrestling action this weekend as the Western North Carolina High School Athletic Association stages its annual tournament on the local mats. Several WNCHSAA schools include Mooresville, Kannapolis, Statesville, and Concord.

Catfish Seek To End Losing Skein

Following five straight losses, the Davidson swimming team sought to get back on the winning track this afternoon when they splashed with Emory in the local pool. This coming Wednesday and Thursday, Coach Dwight Shoe's men travel north into the state of Virginia for consecutive meets with William & Mary and VMI. These two meets will provide the swimmers with their final competition before they journey to Charleston, S. C., on March 8-10 for the Southern Conference Meet.

The 'Catfish, who now own a 2-5 record, have been plagued all season with the problem of depth—just as Shoe predicted before the season ever began. However, several swimmers have been tremendous all season, and will be seeking conference records in the Charleston pool. Some of these include Carter Mebane, Jack Hollenbeck, and Barry Branch, freestyle aces; Stefan Young, breaststroke artist; and Tom French, top backstroke man.

Cage Action

I-F basketball action was light this week as only four games were played. The undefeated Kappa Sigs did not play, thus remaining in number one position. Checklist for this week's action is as follows: On Monday night, three SAE’s scored in double figures—Ed Hines (21), Billy Jo Morgan (12), and Tommy Tuttle (11)—as they came from behind for a 54-45 win over the Pikas, who also had three men in double figures—J. D. Whitehead (16), Keith Fraser (13), and Jim Fouche (10). The Betas walloped the Sigma Nus, 68-34, behind Tommy Hamilton’s 20 and Steve Kash’s 19 points. Lou Zirkle scored 14 and Bob McAllister 15 as the Phi Gams edged the KA’s in overtime, 47-44. John Sharp had 18 for the losers. Mark Dunn, the league's top scorer, and David Johnson hit 24 each, and Earl Cole added 18 as the Independents raced by the Sig Eps, 85-42.

AT THE CITADEL TOMORROW NIGHT

’Cats Complete

ASTRONAUT? — Davidson's TERRY HOLLAND (with ball) seems suspended in mid-air between Richmond players JOHN TELEPO (left) and GEORGE GRODZICKI. Wildcat captain D. G. MARTIN (14) closes in. This was just one of Holland’s rebounds which enabled the ‘Cats to trounce the Spiders on Tuesday night, 72-62. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Probably the best and certainly the most exciting freshman basketball team ever to be assembled at Davidson College winds up the season tomorrow night in Charleston, S. C., where they take on The Citadel frosh just prior to the varsity clash. Going into this final contest, the Wildkittens have compiled a 14-3 record, and are currently riding an 11-game winning streak. A win over the Bullpups, whom the ‘Kittens have already thrashed once, 104-76, would enable the frosh to equal their big brothers’ record-setting victory streak of 12.

This past Tuesday night the ‘Kittens put on an exhibition that left Davidson fans saying, “Just wait ‘til next year!” The cause for elation was a sound, 80-63 victory over Duke University’s heralded freshmen, considered by most to be the best yearling club in the Atlantic Coast Conference. Pacing the Davidson attack was Don Davidson, the 6'5" lean and hungry Salem, Ohio, native, whose 19 points in the second half leftThe Blue Imps standing. Following a bad first half, the former high school football and basketball All-Stater came back after intermission and poured in 9-of-11 field goal attempts, most of which came on driving layups and follow-up shots over the long arms of Duke’s 7-foot center, Hack Tison. 6-8 Fred Hetzel of Washington, D.C., was again outstanding. Consistent throughout the game, Hetzel was high scorer with 21 points. The former prep school All-American turned in one of his best performances of the year as he rebounded with authority and put an excellent defensive job on Tison, who was also a high school All-American. Guards Charlie Marcon and Dave Thomas were outstanding also. Two former Pennsylvania high school All-Staters, Marcon and Thomas combined for 12 and 11 points, respectively, and turned in their usual razzle-dazzle floor show. Barry Teague, Paul Briggs, Phil Squier, and John Barrow also saw action, and Teague, Briggs, and Squier tossed in some crucial buckets. Briggs was particularly effective in replacing Davidson when the latter was having his poor first half. Having just recovered from the flu, Tommy White did not see action.

DRIVING LAYUPS LIKE THIS ONE BY DON DAVIDSON BROUGHT SWEET RESULTS AGAINST TALENTED DUKE. “I’LL CRAM IT DOWN YOUR THROAT,” Davidson freshman star FRED HETZEL (with ball) seems to be saying to an unidentified Duke freshman. DAVE THOMAS (20) and HACK TISON (22) observe. The Wildkittens did everything but cram the ball down the Blue Imps’ throats as they rolled to an impressive 80-63 victory. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Schedule Bulldogs Seek Berth In Loop Tournament

BY STEVE CLARK
Sports Editor

Davidsonian Coach Lefty Driesell’s rags-to-riches basketball players, who weren’t supposed to win more than 8 or 9 ball games this season, complete their schedule tomorrow night against The Citadel in Charleston, S.C., in quest of victory number 15. However, tomorrow night will not be the last time the Davidson cagers don their uniforms this season. This coming Thursday they journey to Richmond, Va., to participate in the Southern Conference tournament, from which one team will emerge as conference champion with the right to represent the conference in the NCAA playoffs.

LIFE AND DEATH

All tomorrow is a battle for life and death for the Bulldogs. A loss to The Citadel would severely dampen the Bulldogs’ hopes of attending the family picnic at Richmond since the last place member during the regular season cannot go. However, a victory would assure the Bulldogs not only of a berth in the tourney but of a seventh-place finish in the standings. Thus they would avoid a first-round game with powerful West Virginia, everybody’s favorite to win this year's affair. But the Bulldogs are seeking more than a tournament berth against the ‘Cats. They want revenge for the 77-71 defeat they absorbed in Johnston Gym earlier in the season.

Pacing The Citadel attack is All-Conference Gary Daniels, a 6-5 senior from Canton, Ohio. Daniels, who holds practically every school basketball record at The Citadel, averages more than 20 points a game, and on several occasions this year has poured more than 30 points through the hoop in a game.

NO PARTY

Last Friday night, while most Davidson students were out partying, the local cagers were having anything but a party in Gastonia, N.C., where scrappy Erskine was dealing them their ninth setback, 75-66. Recovering from the flu, the Wildcats were simply outhustled by the shorter Erskine players, who were seeking a prestige win and revenge for the last meeting of the two. The Flying Fleet succumbed in the earlier bout, 71-57. Big Bill Jarman put on a good exhibition for his hometown fans by dropping in 31 points. It was the redhead junior’s fourth 30-plus points performance of the year.

SICK SPIDERS

This past Tuesday night the ‘Cats got back into the win column with a 72-62 win over Richmond. Still suffering from the after-effects of the flu, the Cats turned in a lackluster performance, but it was good enough to drub the flu-riddled forces of the Spiders. Missing the 30-point mark by only two, Jarman was again high man with 8 field goals and 2 free throws. Sophomore Bill Beerman turned in a good job with 18 points, including 10 free throws. 6-7 Terry Holland was also a valuable figure in the win.

“Dark Horse” ‘Cats Draw GW 1st Round

First-seeded West Virginia is a solid favorite in next weekend’s Southern Conference tournament to be held at Richmond, Va., March 1-3. The Mounties own an 11-1 conference record and an overall mark of 20-5 with one game remaining—against Furman tomorrow night. VPI and Furman, which will probably finish second and third, respectively, are rated as contenders in the tournament, while Davidson, attending its first tourney since 1959, will play the role of dark horse.

In last year’s affair, a darker-than-dark horse took the whole works. George Washington, which finished sixth during the regular season, entered the tournament with a dismal 6-16 mark. But the Colonials got hot for three straight nights behind the fantastic shooting of little Jon Feldman, and earned the right to represent the loop in the NCAA playoffs. The Colonials, who have Feldman back plus a more respectable record of 8-13, are slated to be Davidson’s first-round opponents. They beat the ‘Cats 95-77, early in the season. Either The Citadel, Richmond, or William & Mary will not attend the tournament, depending on the outcome of tomorrow night’s games.

First-round schedule for Thursday, March 1, is as follows:
2 p.m. Davidson vs. GW
4 p.m. West Virginia vs. (Citadel, Rich., or W&M)
7:30 p.m. VPI vs. (Citadel, Rich., or W&M)
9:30 p.m. Furman vs. VMI

Should the ‘Cats beat GW, they will more than likely play West Virginia on Friday night, March 2, at 7:30. The championship game is slated for 8 p.m. Saturday.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE STANDINGS
Conference All
West Virginia 11 1 20 5
VPI 8 3 16 5
Furman 8 4 15 10
Davidson 5 5 14 9
George Washington 6 6 8 13
VMI 6 8 7 10
Richmond 5 10 6 19
The Citadel 3 8 7 16
William & Mary 4 11 6 17

Furman Favored To Win Indoor Track Tournament

BY BILL PRIDGEN
Sports Writer

Davidson’s indoor track team left this afternoon for tomorrow’s Southern Conference indoor track tournament in Lexington, Va., with little hope of capturing better than a fourth place. Coach Heath Whittle, commenting on the meet, said, “Furman will probably win the meet this year; they have a powerful team.” Whittle added, “it should be a dogfight between VMI and William & Mary for second place.”

The Whittlemen who are making the trip include Bob Cordle, 60-yd. dash; John Sharp, 440-yd. dash; John Harris, 880-yd. dash; Ken Kelley, low hurdles; John Childs and Greg Govan, hop-step-and-jump and broad jump; and Keith Fraser, high jump. Avery Burns, Sharp, Cordle, Harris, and Kelley will run the relay events. Whittle singled out Sharp as tomorrow’s best prospect, and also mentioned that Childs has a good chance in the hop-step-and-jump and the broad jump.

Last Saturday at the Big Five indoor track meet in Raleigh, Davidson’s varsity was represented by only one man, Bob Cordle, who took a fifth place in the 60-yd. dash. On the freshman side, however, all four boys who made the trip showed up well in their respective events. Tom Watson won the 60-yd. dash; Mike Williams was second in the low hurdles; Fred Heffner was second in the mile run; and Chester Davis was third in the two-mile run.