Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO ————— FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

New Cut System: Maturity Unlimited

The meeting didn’t break up until nearly 6 p.m., but out of it came a major finished accomplishment. The far-sighted group assembled was the Davidson faculty, and the legislation was a new cut system for the college. It wasn’t long before the news had spread around campus. The thought of “unlimited cuts” excited many, especially the freshmen. But a second look at the new plan, to go into effect next fall, shows several important ramifications.

First, a reminder: the “25 percent rule” is in effect right now; no student can cut any course more than nine times, excused or not excused, without failing that course. In effect, only the quality-point requirement has been removed. But several new provisions have shifted a larger burden of responsibility onto the student’s shoulders. Instead of only three cuts to handle, a student will have nine (in most courses) to parcel out for athletic, musical and other organizational trips, and medical reasons. And since dean’s office approval will be required before any tests can be made up, it looks like the days of the flimsy infirmary “dive” are over at last.

A Private Yes

At its recent meeting, the faculty voted once again on a resolution to remove the racial restrictions governing Davidson admissions. Although the result of the vote will not be announced until after the Trustee’s meeting to which the resolution will be submitted, there can be no doubt that, in the light of previous ballots, the motion was carried by a large majority. Indeed, neither the motion itself nor its victory are so important as the fact that it is “private” information for the Trustees. The Faculty stand is no longer revolutionary; it merely reaffirms the resolutions of years past. It simplifies the complicated vote of five alternatives of two years ago to a simple “yes.”

The resolution is a private “yes” to the Trustees because the heated discussion, the agitation of past years is now dormant. This is a year to watch and wait. The first resolution of the Faculty, the DAVIDSONIAN’S Trustee Special Edition, the Congolese Committee have done their job. Having opened Davidson to Presbyterian-approved Congolese, the Trustees have shown that they desire to be fair and reasonable, even Christian. Consequently, the Faculty and other campus groups have been willing to give them time to consider—perhaps to make Davidson's policies fairer, more reasonable, more nearly Christian. Agitation has made the Trustees aware of the problem which exists, but agitation would probably do little more than irritate them at this time. We hope, however, that this quiet, considered reaffirmation of the integrationist position by that campus group which, unlike many of the Trustees, is close to the Davidson situation and the academic world, and which is more mature, more objective and better-informed than most of the Students, will carry a very considerable weight.

The death of racial segregation at Davidson began years ago when the first Oriental student was admitted. The position taken by the Presbyterian Church has increased the pressure to integrate completely. Since the heat following the 1953 Supreme Court decision, many of the non-radicals in the South have come to realize, if not accept, the fact that public racial segregation is doomed—again the pressure on Davidson has been increased. Leading Southern universities have already begun to revise their policies. Votes such as a recent one at Furman University (Faculty: 80-12 for integration, Students: 512-432 for integration) have set the pace in Southern higher education. The admission of Congolese was the reductio ad absurdum of a system once valid but now false. Finally, Davidson's decision to become a leading national institution spells the death of this vestige of regionalism.

The faculty has presented its case to the Trustees, but the documentation is incomplete. In its meeting Wednesday, the Student Council began a move to fill the gap. The opinion of the students should be submitted as well. We suggest that a simple “yes” or “no” resolution be presented by the Council for student vote to give the Trustees the student opinion. For us, this is a year to watch and wait, for we hope that the Trustees will give a simple “yes” to leadership in the South. For the Trustees, we hope it will be a year of decisive, Christian action.

LK

Achilles?

The Union movie schedule for the exam period, the selection which has been brought to us in the previous three semesters, and the plans for the remainder of the year are proof positive of the heroic interpretation of Davidson history. Those of us who are able to compare the excellent offerings of the present with the grade-D scum of former years will certainly agree that history has been made. And in this case, history has been made by the hard work and devotion of one man.

At the end of this examination period, he stands a good chance of becoming (like all true epic heroes) what some people might consider a hero in tragedy. If he has underachieved, it is because he has done more in three semesters than most of us will do in eight (or more). Signal evidence of his devotion is the fact that he has completed arrangements for the Fine Film and Experimental Film Festivals for the next semester before taking his leave. As he goes, he carries with him our thanks.

LK.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Jordan

BUSINESS MANAGER
Gene Adcock

Associate Editors
Lee Kirby
Dun Saunders

Managing Editors
Bill Hagen
Mac Plaxico

Sports Editor
Steve Clark

Assignments Editor
Jeff Wampler

Feature Editor
Bill Ruth

News Editor
Sam Fort

Advertising Manager
Ed Willer

Circulation Manager
Clay Atkins

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Photographer
Joe McCutchen

Cartoonists
Doug Ackerman
Joe Howell
Dan Adams

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

The Long Hard Climb...

By Howell

Professors Debate Over Underachievement Cure

BY BILL HAGEN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Underachievement—a problem or an opinion? And, if it exists, how can it be detected and what can be done about it? To find the answers to these and other questions concerning the issue, raised by Dr. Puckett on this page last month, THE DAVIDSONIAN recently conducted a poll of the faculty. Although replies were received from only one-fifth of the faculty (perhaps revealing the other side of the issue at stake) representing nine departments, it was felt that they constituted a cross section of opinion.

Practically all of those polled recognized the existence of the problem and half admitted that it was “serious.” Serious enough to constitute grounds for suspension most agreed. In the minority was the professor (one of two anonymous replies) who, after dispensing with the “seriousness” of the problem, stated that Dr. Puckett was “all confused.”

Dear Editor,

Last month Davidson had the opportunity to hear a fine artist. Mr. Stewart Gordon, while not a Name pianist (yet), showed himself to be a thorough master of his instrument, and a sincere interpreter of deep musicianship. His program was a surprisingly varied and most stimulating one, and he played with a like variety of style and effect. In short, it was a most pleasant and musically delightful evening. It would have been much more so had the audience been larger. I hesitate to pass judgment, but it seems that quite a few people could take time from their studies to attend “The Lovers” that was being shown at the same time in the Union. Most of these people could probably not spare the time otherwise. I shall not here go into the grim possibility of the presence of a culture ghetto here at Davidson; I shall simply say that it is amazing how little concern for the concerts, lectures, exhibits and the like is shown here at a school supposedly well-rounded and intellectual. Sometimes the level of clodhood seems almost to approach that of a state university.

HODSON EMPTY

But to Monday night’s concert, for my real purpose is not to condemn but to plead for some sanity on the part of somebody with authority. What immutable law requires that concerts be given in Chambers? For weeks we have been hearing the delights of the Cunningham Temple to the Muses, and yet Hodson Hall sits empty on the concert evenings. The sometimes ravishingly fragile tone of Mr. Gordon's Debussy was lost in the acoustic nightmare of Chambers. Facilities seem worse in other aspects—the spotlight went off once during the performance, and the piano was not in the best of condition. I am sure that the artist was not pleased with the situation. I am equally sure that the audience was not pleased. I am also sure that the situation can be remedied. I hope that it will be.

Sincerely,
Troffer

Half of the professors said that possibly 25% of their students were slackers although there was a distinct minority who put the number at 15% or less. The old adage of the “sophomore slump” held up as an average of 46% of the above underachievers was listed as belonging to this class. The rest of the average percentage places reserved in this distinguished section were divided equally by the three remaining classes.

The probable number of slothful studiers in the student body was roughly agreed upon as 10-25%. About half of the dissenters put the range under 10% and the rest over 25%.

Obvious difficulties were encountered in the area of identifying specific underachievers.Solutions to the problem of evaluating a student's performance with regard to his ability ranged from “can’t be done” to proposals for a series of tests. College boards, IQ, and high school grades were suggested as helps. Several professors seemed to think that only the student himself could be absolutely sure he was a slacker. Consultations with the individual involved, and possibly fellow students, were urged in these cases. The majority of the faculty was willing to take on themselves the ultimate responsibility of deciding each case. The Dean of Students or the Scholarship Committee was also mentioned as the possible final authority. The subject of what action to take was an area of numerous diverse opinions. One of the suggestions was that “teachers should wake underachievers up with clubs, if necessary.” Again, most of those polled gave themselves the responsibility of trying to cure the situation. Being “less timid about failing” a student was listed as a solution. One professor even went so far as to say that there would be “no trouble with students if faculty members did their own work—properly and on time.”

Goa Goads Discussion Of Indian Political Attitudes
BY GEORGE DEY
Richardson Scholar

Americans have been quite surprised by the sudden attack of Indian troops on Goa. For a clarification of this, it will take some background and criticism.

India has diversity in every sense, whether political, geographical, or cultural. It has three strong parties — 1. Congressional, 2. Socialistic, and 3. Communistic. Democracy in India is very different from America and perhaps has even lost its real meaning there. Many aspects of the constitution are never practiced.

FREEDOM DRIVE
It has the second largest population in the world—about 410 million people. America is very fortunate to have three times as much area and also less population. In India, with the expansion of education, the people have pushed for more personal freedom. Because of the unemployment situation, which seemingly disregards an adequate education, they are reacting in the negative. Communism was spreading rapidly in India because of this economic situation.

REVOLUTION
The country needs a big revolution to change the political structure and in order to facilitate opportunities for those who deserve them. But population is a big problem which can never be solved. The people are now of the revolutionary type. They feel it at heart but cannot put it into action. This employment question, without a doubt, would have changed India completely toward socialism or communism but for the success of the two five-year plans.

CIVIL ATTITUDE
Average people criticize and also dislike the pattern of the government, because it changes from time to time. Therefore all of its actions must not be accepted as reflecting the feelings or opinions of the people. As to the attack of the troops on Goa, many Americans are surprised to learn the fact that it is not the people who have brought this about. Average Indians are not at all concerned about Goa. They are really much more seriously concerned about China and Pakistan, who are always flashing greedy eyes on India.

GOVERNMENT CONTROL
It was mainly the command of the government which brought Goa into the hands of India. The people did not play any active role in having Goa made a part of their country, though it was a question to be thought out by the people. I think most citizens want only the opportunity to see prospects of a rich future instead of Goa. Much strong criticism, particularly in this country’s newspapers, was brought about by this action. But the reactive government has every key which opens the door and lets the “fly go out from Pandora’s Box.” Whether India should be blamed or not for her role in this situation is mostly a personal concept of each individual derived from the complex background existing there.

Few of those polled thought it necessary for the administration to take action except in extreme cases. Academic probation, limiting extra-curricular participation, and notification of parents were suggested though. The members of the faculty were anything but reluctant in making general comments or specific suggestions concerning the whole problem. Time spent in extra-curricular activities and allowing for special occasions, such as dance weekends, was listed as a definite depressant by several professors. “The false standard established by grades” was hit by one professor. On the positive side, special privileges for the overachievers, such as being excused from exams, were suggested. Unique was the proposal of requiring more quality points from the more able students. At any rate, as a person put it, perhaps “getting by is a Davidson tradition.”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Two Warn Of Communism, Affront To Art

Almost distracting Mr. Gordon to what would have been a disastrous interruption of the slow movement of a Mozart sonata. The doors were constantly harmonizing with a dull, grating creak that rarely failed to intrude on the pianissimos, someone in the balcony evidently had a pencil made of very slippery wood—it rolled noisily down the stairs several times. Every whisper, cough, belch, was magnified out of all just proportion by the hideous acoustics. But worse of all is the dry, cold, forbidding Chambers atmosphere—who can relax and enjoy music in those chairs? There is always a chilly edge to the audience just from having to sit in such a primitive auditorium.

ASKS ACTION
I should therefore like to ask: what earthly reason makes it impossible to use the new auditorium with its intimate tonal design, its relaxed and comfortable atmosphere, its easy-to-get-along-with feeling—so unlike that of Chambers, which makes one feel vaguely antagonistic just by walking through the door. How much finer Mr. Gordon's excellent tone would have been if it had not been swallowed; how much better it would have been to sit in comfortable seats and not always have to strain out the door-closing, pencil-dropping, throat-clearing sounds. I therefore beg: The Netherlands Chamber Choir is coming in January. Having heard their records I can say that they are an ensemble with almost fantastic beauty and spirit, perhaps the finest choral group in Europe, and certainly finer than anything this country can boast of. To place them in Chambers, where their stained-glass beauty would be shattered and ragged, would be nothing less than an inexcusable crime against music, an insult to the Choir itself, and an outrage to the people who attend the concert. It's time somebody did something.

W. R. Trotter
Atkins

Dear Editor,

We were privileged to have the opportunity to see the film “Operation Abolition” and to hear the Lewis-Patterson debate a few weeks ago. With respect to the film “Operation Abolition,” a good portion of those sincere Davidson students who saw the film have come away convinced the film was basically honest and true. This group was equally convinced that the so-called “Patterson group” was for a reason not readily apparent, attempting to discredit the film and the HUAC.

TRUTH UNTARNISHED
It was stated that this film has been put together in a way that although it gives the impression of presenting a continuous account of events actually presents incidents out of context and out of continuity to prove its point. Fulton Lewis who edited and narrated the film freely admits that it was impossible to determine the exact sequence of some of the segments of news film. But any reversal of sequence or other details upon which the “Patterson group” attack is based, have absolutely no effect on the truth of the film or on its importance as a document to which the American people should be exposed. The film shows a group of identified and undenied Communist leaders and a group of young people who were whipped up by these Communists to disorderly conduct. The clear connection between the Communist leaders and the resulting riots was not refuted.

REASONS QUESTIONED
We saw in the discussion between Patterson and Lewis fully revealed the nature of the case against the film, a case built on irrelevant details. And thus, a cause of deeper concern to us is why this attack on the film is carried on with such vehemence in view of the weakness of the case against it. When a duly constituted committee of Congress prepares for presentation to the American people, a film showing one phase of the Communist menace, we wonder with grave concern why such strenuous and continuing efforts are made to dismiss it as a “fake,” which it is not. The simple fact is that nothing has been faked. All of the scenes are actual news films of actual events taken on the spot by cameramen of San Francisco TV stations. In an effort to present the story as it happened, these films were obtained from the stations which covered the event as a news story. This is the reason why the film appears disjointed in some sequences, and why some of the film is of poor quality. If the film had been deliberately made as a “documentary,” with staging and “dramatic” rendition of the events, then there might be some question as to its authenticity. But the opposite is true.

COMMON ENEMY
None of the foregoing controversy casts any light whatever on the main idea that the House Committee is trying to impart in this film: namely, that a small group of revolutionaries can, by their skill, dedication, and preparation, influence a large and innocent crowd of loyal, intelligent Americans to subvert and defy established law and justice, to the furtherance of the Communist aims and to the detriment of the very institutions that have made America great and free. This is not a time for disunity and dissension. This is a time of crisis when all responsible, loyal groups in the United States, including the Davidson faculty, newspaper, Chaplain’s office and students should be working together for the destruction of the insidious, immoral and ungodly conspiracy of Communism. Communism is, by its own declaration, the implacable enemy of all of us. We know that you are aware of this awful truth. Let us all join in a dedicated, militant effort to destroy the evil which threatens to destroy us.

A. Clay Atkins

THAT OL’ SUPPER DISH!