ALL FEET seems to be the proper way to do it as Erskine Sproul explains the hows and whys of
mountain climbing. (Photo by McCutchen).

Union’s Job Carnival Brings Career Opportunities

A Career Carnival, which is being planned by C. Shaw Smith, director of the Student Union, will bring representatives of
leading companies to campus to discuss career opportunities with the students. The Career Carnival, to be held in the lobby
of the Student Union during the middle of November, is a pre-placement program for all students. It is designed to
help, in particular, freshmen, sophomores, and juniors who are undecided about their future occupation. Interested seniors are also invited to
attend.

The opportunity for students to learn just what type of man a particular industry wants will be a feature offered
by Career Carnival. Rather than attend group lectures, the student can roam at will among separate career booths in the
Union lobby.

Finally, succeeding, he wiped the sweat from his brow with a grimy glove and looked confidently up the precipice... straight
up to another narrow ledge before an opening in the stone, his destination. The ropes groaned and whistled as they
slid through the metal karabiner, a loop attached to the rope Swiss seat which clutched his dungarees and held him
securely. Almost impossibly, he continued to climb, as his heavy shoes slipped repeatedly while he fought to keep braced against
the stone wall. His arms trembled as he coiled his legs and bolted them into the dark hole. He loosed
the ropes and clambered into the forbidding enclosure. Looking cautiously around, Erskine Sproul unfastened his ropes, washed his hands in
the basin, and took another look through the window of his fourth-floor dormitory room he had just entered.

“That'll give you an idea of the proper procedures,” he smiled. “As you can imagine, one slip climbing can mean
life or death. But I always wear a safety harness to hold me securely to the ropes.”

Sproul insists that he is not a mountain climber — “just big rocks so far, but I hope to climb
some real mountains in the Rockies soon.” Not content with climbing the outsides of self-respecting hills, he loves to probe
around inside them, too. Exploring caves and caverns is fast becoming a popular sport, he noted, called “spelunking” (from Anglo-Saxon
“spea,” to embarrass, and “lunka,” spirit of the hills).

Son of Dr. and Mrs. A. E. Sproul of Staunton, Va., the climber became interested in both activities through his
Explorer Scout post leader, a former Army ranger. He and his fellow Scouts went on numerous expeditions through the hills
and caves of Virginia, and Sproul himself often delighted in climbing stone quarry walls near his home. As a Scout,
he has an impressive array of merit badges, and he has exceeded the rank of Eagle Scout with the Bronze
Palm Award.

“I haven't really done anything exciting except spend a night around last New Year’s in a cave of a mountain
covered with ice and snow,” he commented. “But I have great hopes of continuing this hobby for a long time.”

Sproul is a freshman Pi Kappa Alpha pledge and a member of the chapel choir.

Westminster Group Varies Programs

The Davidson Westminster Fellowship plans a year of programs designed to capture the varied campus interests. According to Joe McCutchen,
president of the WF, “We are trying to inject new life into the group this year with a more varied
program which we hope will be of interest to the majority of Davidson's students.”

The most immediate item on the schedule is an open meeting on stewardship and service to be held tonight. Next
Friday, a joint meeting with the Queens College WF will be held. Other joint meetings are scheduled for later in
the year. The weekend of Oct. 20-21, Davidson will participate in a synod conference. Held at Camp Monroe near Laurinburg,
the conference will have delegations from all over the state in attendance.

Movie Committee Sets Film Schedule

Stewart Jamison, director of the Union Film Committee, has planned an extensive program of films for viewing by the Davidson
students between now and Christmas. These will include such varied selections as “A Pocketful of Miracles,” which is showing this
week, and the Academy Award-winning “Judgment at Nuremberg.” The committee is attempting to make Davidson’s film program comparable to that
of Duke University. At present, Duke’s is rated number one. Plans include moving the screen to a new position where
everyone can see it better.

Humanity Course ‘Notable Undertaking

With the introduction of the humanities program into the curriculum at Davidson, a new concept in education is realized. A
total of 102 freshmen are taking the first stage of a two-year program which combines the studies of English, Bible,
and history. The program grew out of the following convictions of the faculty and administration: that modern education has been
too concerned with training specialists rather than liberally educating; that undergraduate liberal arts education has been tempted to multiply courses
beyond necessity and to over-departmentalize; that excessive use of the analytical method has caused unnecessary fragmentation of knowledge; that synthesis
can accompany analysis; that the past, present, and future are inextricably intertwined; and that the life and achievements of Western
man can and should be seen in meaningful patterns.

Each humanities student meets in the dome room for one hour, six days a week to listen to lectures and
to view slides which pertain to the course. After the dome room period, the class divides into six discussion groups
of 17 students which meet with professors associated with the program. There will be a rotation process about every half
semester in order to give each student an opportunity to meet with different professors. The second-year program, which is a
continuation of the first, will further develop these interdisciplinary studies.The first half of the year is a discussion of drama,
“The Play's the Thing,” first-year program, now under preparation. The men responsible for this program are professors of BAS. Both
the 16mm and 35mm cameras may be trained on it at the same time. This will eliminate changing projectors between
the feature and the newsreel.

Oct. 15-22: Through a Glass Darkly
Oct. 22-29: Paths of Glory
Oct. 29-Nov. 5: Last Year at Marienbad
Nov. 5-12: Open
Nov. 12-19: Rocco and His Brothers
Nov. 19-26: Thanksgiving
Dec. 7-9: Judgement at Nuremberg
Dec. 9-15: Open

A further improvement will be the purchase of a Cinemascope lens for the 35mm projector. At present, the 16mm Cinemascope
lens must be taped to the 35mm projector.

Fifty cents admission fee: In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... “The Best Creative Effort Of
The Year!” Only $3.00 Buys (According to a staff poll) the famous OPEN KITCHEN, 1318 W. Morehead, Charlotte, N.C.

Name:
Street or Box No.:
Town:
Zone:
State:

This is a new subscription; a renewal. The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.

The following movies will be shown in the Morrison Room of the Union to those paying the admission fee. B.
O. Thompson and M. Lester, history; Prof. E. F. Miller, political science; Prof. H. T. Lilly, Bible; and Prof. E.
R. MacCormac, philosophy.

Carlyle Marney Vesper Speaker

Dr. Carlyle Marney, holder of BD and ThD degrees from the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Ky., will preach
at the vespers service this Sunday night in the college church. The freshmen vespers in Hodson Hall will be addressed
by Rev. William R. Klein, who graduated from Davidson in 1951. A native of Tennessee, Dr. Marney taught at Carson-Newman
College in Jefferson City, Tenn. for four years before serving as pastor of the First Baptist Church of Austin, Texas
for ten years. Presently pastor of the Myers Park Baptist Church in Charlotte, he is the author of six books,
the most recent being entitled Structures of Prejudice.

As a student at Davidson, Rev. W. R. Klein ran varsity track, was active in the YMCA, and was selected
for Who's Who. For graduate study, Klein attended the Richmond Theological Seminary. He was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
in Black Mountain and is presently at the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church in Rock Hill, S.C. The freshmen will continue
to have vespers in Hodson Hall until Nov. 4, when they will begin meeting with the upperclassmen in the college
church. There will be no faculty open house after vespers this Sunday. Part of the faculty will have their homes
open after vespers beginning Oct. 7.

Prof. Sam Maloney, English; Prof. E. F. Miller, political science; Prof. H. T. Lilly, Bible; and Prof. E. R. MacCormac,
philosophy.

MSF meets every Friday at 6 p.m. at the Methodist Church with a free, informal supper. It is open to
students of any denomination. The asserted aim of these widely varied activities is to provide the individual an opportunity to
evaluate his religious beliefs.

BY HARRY DANIEL
Davidsonian Fine Arts Critic

Last night the Vagabonds presented their first production of the 1962 fall season, the Greek tragedy Agamemnon. I would like
to congratulate Dr. Goodykoontz and his cast for a fine production. To attempt to produce Greek tragedy is in itself
a notable undertaking. Some authorities have called Agamemnon the greatest of the Greek tragedies. The performance of the play depends
greatly on the tragic mood and the poetic effect. For these reasons, few drama groups have even attempted to produce
the play.

The production last night was outstanding in two areas. The character of Clytemnestra as portrayed by Aeschylus is one of
the most powerful characterizations in Greek tragedy and at the same time, it is one of the most difficult roles
to sustain. Miss Judy Harrison did a magnificent job in her role as Clytemnestra. The audience was drawn into the
very horror of Clytemnestra’s position. Throughout the entire play, one was continually aware of this woman’s determination to seek revenge.
Again, I wish to congratulate Miss Harrison on a splendid portrayal.

The second exceptional aspect of last night's performance was the power of the so-called Cassandra scene. This is perhaps the
emotional climax of the play, for Agamemnon’s death follows almost immediately. Here at this point in the play, I witnessed
one of the most powerful and moving scenes I have ever watched. Miss Cornue’s performance was superior in every way.
For Cassandra was the most tragic of all human beings. And this scene was last night’s most effectively and powerfully
portrayed.

There were, however, certain weaknesses in the performance. But I am acquainted with the almost insurmountable obstacles the production faced
due to last-minute cast changes due to sickness. Bearing this in mind, I wish to make two criticisms of the
play. First, the tragic mood of the play was difficult for the audience to grasp. The horror of the play
did not reach the audience as well as it should have. This was brought about in part because the intervals
of humor, especially after the death cry of Agamemnon, were a bit overplayed and overemphasized. The second criticism is that
the tempo of the play was too slow. By this, I mean that it dragged, especially in the chorus scenes.
In some cases, it was difficult to keep the attention of the audience because of this. Finally, I feel that
I could pay no higher compliment to the director and the cast than to urge all the students and friends
of the college to attend this fine production. I await with expectation the future productions of the Vagabonds.

Foreign Students Lecture For IRC

Three international students, Robert Gerritsen (Netherlands), Nobutoku Tatsuta (Japan), and Franklin V. Pfeffer (Uruguay) will give short talks on the
theme “Problems of Other Parts of the World and How They Are Being Met,” at the first program of the
International Relations Club. The group will meet Tuesday, Oct. 2 at 7:15 p.m. in the Green Room of the Union.
Members will be able to meet the International Students at a coffee held afterwards. The International Relations Club strives to
provide the stimulus for student interest in international affairs and the forum for discussion of politics and foreign policy. Dr.
Minter, faculty advisor, convened an organizational meeting last Tuesday night. The organizational group elected Bob Parker, president; Charles Wherry, vice-president;
Kip Roberts, secretary-treasurer; and Jamie Long, program advisor.

Vagabonds Reveal Cast For Oct. Play

C. Shaw Smith, director of the Student Union, and Louise Hampton, wife of Captain David Hampton, will play the lead
roles of Sheridan Whiteside and Maggie in the forthcoming Vagabond production of “The Man Who Came to Dinner.” The play,
which will be presented Oct. 16-19, is under the direction of Dr. William Goodykoontz and drama assistant, Don Stowell. Sets
are being designed by Hugh Craig, a Davidson graduate who is now an Episcopal minister in Charlotte. In addition to
the leads, fifteen other parts have already been cast. Those players are as follows: Geoffrey Luckock, a Richardson Scholar from
England, as Beverly Carlton; Steve Chalmers, a freshman, as Bert Jefferson; Eric Taylor, a freshman, as Ernest Stanley; Jesse Lynn,
a freshman, as Richard Stanley; William Walker, a sophomore, as Doctor Bradley; Peter Cassell, a senior, as John; Jim Williams,
a senior, as Metz; Bill Vermilye, a sophomore, as Banjo; Bill Ferris, a junior, as Sandy; James Curl, a freshman,
as Westcott; Star Evins, a freshman, as a radio technician; Jim Graves, a freshman, as an expressman; Laura Ann Stephens,
wife of Coach T. B. Stevens, as Lorraine; Sandy Wheaton, daughter of Col. Paul Wheaton, and Jamie French, secretary to
the president of the college, as Mrs. McCutcheon.

Old Concert Band Changes Its Name

The Davidson College Concert Band will henceforth be known as the Davidson College Wind Ensemble. The newly-renamed organization, in its
28th year on the campus, will make its first concert appearance on Sunday, Sept. 30, at 4:30 p.m. on the
college quadrangle lawn. The Ensemble will present works of Bach, Wagner, Vaughn-Williams, Richard Rodgers, and Sousa. Featured soloist will be
sophomore Jim Feil, who will play “Trumpeter's Lullaby.”

Remember - only YOU can PREVENT FOREST FIRES.
