Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1962
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

The Best Interests

This summer upperclass members of the student body received a letter. It was from a man whom most students had
come to accept as a permanent part of the Davidson scene. The first reaction of many was one of anger
and mistrust that no amount of publicity releases would ever soothe. We remembered as freshmen, being at first taken aback
by the booming laugh and a hearty hand-on-the-shoulder. It seemed out of place in the chambered atmosphere on the Hill.
But John Horton went further until many of us were known to him on a first-name basis.

In the letter Horton stated, “President Martin has been convinced that the overall interests of Davidson College can best be
served by combining the Alumni and Public Relations office with the Development office.” We don’t pretend to be knowledgeable enough
to refute this. We only know of John Horton’s relationship with the student body. And with this in mind, we
can only term the incident “unfortunate,” for both the man and his many friends. We can do nothing but view
with regret the fact that a man was allowed to hold what both he and the college knew to be
a temporary position for four years. Granted he was only contracted on a year-to-year basis and could have left at
any time. We question the wisdom of taking four years to determine whether or not a man is suited for
a job. Of course, the problem of finding an alternate setup undoubtedly prolonged the trial period, but we think the
individual deserved the primary consideration.

Another ramification of this situation is that few, if any, students knew of Horton’s temporary status. Many only knew that
he had been here since they started college and that, as far as they were concerned, he would continue to
serve in that position. It was certainly not helped by the dropping of ‘Acting’ from in front of his title
when both he and the administration knew that his temporary status had not changed. After he was notified that the
trial period was at an end, Horton was offered the job of assistant dean of students. This was a position
we feel he would have more than adequately filled. But he turned down this offer. Any way you look at
it, the situation was unfortunate.

Hopeful Sign

“Believing in the worth of the individual, and believing that everyone should have an opportunity to express himself uniquely in
a corporate body dedicated to the concepts of democratic brotherhood, mutual concern and respect, and the individual welfare and growth
of each member....” Thus begins the Constitution of Lingle Manor, a “non-exclusive, democratic social organization,” an organization which promises to
fill what has been a serious need on the Davidson Campus. At last, a student social organization has appeared which
has no bidding, no pledge program, and no national dues.

In the immediate future, it will probably be primarily a social organization for non-fraternity men and inactives. This alone is
a marked improvement and will offer independents some alternative to YMCA hayrides and the Union Lounge on dance weekends. But
though Lingle Manor is now largely patterned as a fraternity-type social organization, it has the scope to be far more.
Fraternity men are by no means excluded; its officers think of it as an organization for the entire campus. It
could also branch out into the area of community service as time passes on.

Certainly, the Administration has been very helpful in many ways in getting the Manor established. Mrs. Bordeaux has been extremely
active in assisting the officers, and there has been continued interest from President Martin, Dean Burts, and Business Manager Currie.
Faculty wives and other members of the community have expressed a willingness to help. We are impressed by the efforts
of President Roger Durham and the other officers and members. We are also impressed by the Administration’s helpful attitude and
confidence. In view of the growing number of freshmen who are not pledging fraternities, and in view of the great
potential such a campus-wide organization as this has, we think it’s a good thing.

J.K.A.

Education With All Due Respect

We can do nothing but welcome President Martin’s announcement that the college will take a more stringent attitude toward students
who don’t take proper advantage of the school’s educational opportunities. This has been a long time coming but now the
hard facts of admission policy have made it necessary. Each year an increasing number of hopefuls have been hammering at
the doors of American colleges and universities. At Davidson, more than three times as many applications were received than could
be accepted. With quality education at such a premium, colleges of Davidson’s caliber have an obligation to educate only those
who have ability and are willing to use it. The “underachiever,” the able student content with mediocre grades, deserves to
be goaded out of his complacency.

We thus concur with the “take-a-year-off” policy. Perhaps even the professor’s suggestion of scaling the number of required quality points
to ability should also be considered. As was indicated in last year’s poll of the faculty, underachievement is by no
means a simple problem. There were sharp disagreements as to how to single out the offending student and then just
who should work with him. The Dean of Student’s office frequently has its hands full with the students in real
trouble. The faculty advisor system, at best, is effective on a limited scale. This puts the burden of the problem
directly in the class professor’s lap. We hope the announcement speaks for the faculty as well as the administration.

Bill Hagen
Ed Willer

News Editor
Charles Dibble

Photographers
Joe McCutchen
Tom Anderson

Cartoonists
Dan Adams
Joe Howell
Walter MacDonald

Advertising Manager
Charlie Smith

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

The Agony and the Ecstasy
By Adams

Fine Art Searchers Flock to Statesville Artist Series
BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Yes, Bill Trotter, there is an artist series. The venerable DAVIDSONIAN, the even more venerable faculty, and the most venerable
campus intellectuals (offices in Lingle Manor) widely acclaim the lack of appreciation of the fine arts in the Davidson gentlemen.
They do this each year, intermittently yet consistently. Henri Peyre agrees with them. But I have graphic proof that such
is not the case. The Statesville Fair Association agrees with me. The answer to this apparent contradiction lies in the
defining of fine. Davidson College apparently accepts the first dictionary definition: “pure, superior in character.” The Davidsonians apparently lean to
the seventh dictionary definition (nevertheless just as correct): “trained or prepared for maximum efficiency in an athletic contest.” To this
end, the seeking out of such fine arts, was...

Bergstrand Evaluates Socialism In Sweden
BY JAN BERGSTRAND
Richardson Scholar

Sweden is probably the most socialized country in western Europe. The first socialist cabinet ruled in the late twenties and
for almost thirty years the socialists have not been out of office. However, their early years were troublesome. During the
first decade of the twentieth century, the workers did not have the right to vote. Therefore they could not elect
anybody to represent them in the Houses of Parliament. But after several reforms that gave everybody a right to vote,
the socialists soon acquired majority in both houses. Then they started at once to improve the standards of living of
the workers. Today there are practically no poor people in Sweden. Neither are there any really wealthy people except those
who gained their millions long ago. In the nineteenth century, the chief of the railroad company earned 40 times as
much as a train mechanic. Now he may earn five times as much. Most people belong to a strong middle
class.

All kinds of medical care are socialized. As long as they go to school, children have even their teeth taken
care of completely free and later on they can have it done for a very cheap price. There are communal
hospitals taking care of the citizens’ health. He who wants to pay for it can have a room of his
own at the hospital; others share rooms with several patients. There are, however, many doctors and dentists with offices of
their own. If you choose to have one of these treat you instead, you might...get a more personal treatment, which
of course is bound to be much more expensive. Generally, these doctors cannot handle very serious illnesses or emergencies. Nobody
worries about sickness insurance. It is compulsory and the fee is taken from one’s earnings before he even gets paid.
Then, when medicine is needed, one only pays part of the real cost.

One Glimpse Of Conservative Mentality
BY KNOX ABERNATHY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Some nodded their heads in agreement; some fumed; some chuckled; and some squirmed restlessly in their seats as Mr. Russell
Kirk discoursed on “The Future of Conservatism” at Tuesday's assembly. Mr. Kirk spent the day calling for a return to
the old norms—those of the true conservative, and not of the 19th Century liberal. He, jestingly perhaps, defined his approach
in the words, “Never, without the greatest need, disturb a thing at rest.” Throughout the day, whether in the assembly,
the coffee hour, or his evening with the Conservative Club, in many and varied stories, ramblings, and opinions, he gave
those who were interested a glimpse of his conservative mentality.

Human welfare, he said, should not be taken care of under the programs of 19th Century liberalism nor of sentimental
largesse. He thought the program should give its recipients “duties”—break their “social boredom” with work. Kirk blasted the present tax
system, calling it repressive and claiming that it is destroying the small, family-owned businesses of our country. He opposed the
progressive income tax and the inheritance tax, and hinted to the Conservative Club that he thought the Kennedy Administration was
going to propose next year the sort of tax reform he has in mind.

On education, he said federal aid and other such programs would be unnecessary if the public had confidence in the
public school system. If they had that confidence, they would automatically pay more taxes and take care of the education
of the country. He violently opposed reapportionment as turning over the rule of the country to the urban majorities—at the
expense of rural minorities. He stated in his talk to the Conservative Club, “America was not built on the principle
of counting noses," and urged that we return to the constitutional principle of weighted votes. He did not state how
the votes should be weighed, but did go on to call the “One Man, One Vote” principle “illusory.”

Concerning foreign affairs, he called for a return to the “bed old diplomacy,” as he termed it. He thought that
such nations as Colombia, Venezuela, and perhaps Panama are more than eager to serve as our tools to oust Castro
in a military invasion of Cuba. He attacked American foreign policy in general, and particularly accused “liberals” of trying to
Americanize everybody. He attributed the independence movements in Africa to a “revival of witchcraft,” and called on conservatives to come
to the rescue of our country. “To adjust to abnormality,” Kirk stated, “is to adjust to Sin and Shame.” He
called on Conservatives to maintain the old norms, not of 19th Century liberalism, but of true Conservatism—whose century he failed
to name.

One’s earnings before he even gets paid. Then, when medicine is needed, one only pays part of the real cost.
Most education is state-supported. Almost all children attend public schools. Nine years of schooling is compulsory. Those who intend to
go to college go to senior high school for another three years. This school is highly competitive and if the
student is able to graduate from it, he is entitled to go to college without any further examinations. At college,
tuition is free. Everybody can go through college at the speed he prefers and occasionally a bright student may graduate
in two years. The social activities are not very important.

The Swedish Broadcasting Company is chartered by the government. However, no control is exercised except that commercials must not be
transmitted. Television, too, is free from commercials and produced by the same company. Everyone who has a radio or TV
set has to pay a certain amount each year to cover the costs. Railroads (with a few unimportant exceptions), bus
lines, and SAS, the Scandinavian Airlines System, are owned by the State. However, this does not mean that they provide
free traveling facilities. If one wants to travel somewhere, he must pay for it. But these companies generally lose some
money, although they are not supposed to do so. In spite of—or maybe because of—socialism, Sweden has the highest standard
of living in Europe today. At the Union, there is a book named The Failure of Socialism. I would like
to talk to the author!

* directed the greatest exodus since the Red Sea Freeway: * the Davidson-Trapnall Interchange. At the sight of the quest,
conditions were somewhat squalid. The exhibitor's fee was exorbitant. The background musical selections tended to grate the nerves. Red-necked peasants
dared to rub shoulders with the foreign intelligentsia. Uniformed ushers repeatedly and rudely interrupted the performance. But such things were
ignored by the eager, crowding audience. Theirs was only to absorb what they could, much as a patron of sculpture
yearns to grab at a mobile, thereby to gain fuller insight into aesthetic appreciation.

Due to the retiring nature of the exhibit’s entrepreneur, Madam Topaz, securing an interview was next to impossible. Of her,
it can only be said that her conservative attire and her tender imprecations for solitude belie her extreme artistic modesty.
Davidsonians went back, again and again, and ‘twas with sadness that we bid the troupe adieu as they moved on
to other cultural centers like unto Statesville. It is indeed a pity that such bodies of performers are not brought
directly to this campus. If it is because of lack of dressing facilities, as certain authorities rumor, then surely this
could be corrected. Charles Dana, we appeal to you.

False Logic Evolves From Token Mixing
BY CHARLES DIBBLE
Davidsonian News Editor

Last week’s DAVIDSONIAN carried a front-page feature about our new Congolese student, Ben Nzengu. Although I have not yet had
an opportunity to meet him, I have no doubt that Ben is a very likable personality and a well-qualified student.
My interest, however, is focused on the effect that his attendance here will have on student thought. I fear that
Davidson students will now increasingly tend to adhere to the false logic which is all too frequently expressed, especially by
non-Southerners: “Why, I went to school with Negroes. Very nice people. Once had three in my English class. Never had
a bit of trouble with them. You can do the same down here.”

This is sophistry. The question of segregation-integration is complex. Yet surprisingly few admit this; they wonder why their precise little
solutions won't work. What is wise in a waiting room may not be best for a public high school. Segregation
may be successful at a counter but a failure in public transportation. Integration may be fine for a private college
yet be completely imprudent in a public grammar school. The Davidson student must be aware that geography is not the
only factor to consider in integration. The level of education at which and the degree to which integration takes place
are of primary importance. This fact must not be glossed over!

Harried Student Falls To Bureaucratic Scythe

Editor's Note: Although this is a fictitious account, the situation could be real and parts of the letter were actually
contained in a letter sent to the college.

Registrar’s Office
Davidson College
Davidson, N. C.

Dear Sir:

The approach of my 21st birthday was duly celebrated last May when I came in your office and requested one
of the secretaries on duty to notify the draft board exactly where I was and what I was doing. This
would require the college to send them form no. 109. I was informed that it was as good as done.
“We have the forms right here,” was the confident statement that calmed my tremblings. I even threw my pills away!

Imagine my surprise when I was informed by my draft board that I had a classification of 1A! Happy Birthday!
A little checking revealed that somehow they did not receive no. 109. Now I don’t like to point fingers, but
is it possible you did not send them the form? If there is the slightest chance (and I don’t mean
that there was) you overlooked this matter in all the more important things you have to do, would you please
send them a form? I would greatly appreciate your sending it right away so they (and I) can rest assured
that I will be a student here next year.

Yours in faith,

The writer has requested that his name be withheld pending his return to Davidson two years hence.

I WORRY ABOUT WHO'S GOING TO SEE HIM FIRST... A BIG-LEAGUE SCOUT OR THE HUMANE SOCIETY!
