PATTERSON DISCUSSES JONAS AND KITCHIN (See Page Two)
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
Che Davidsonian
‘CATS - CAVALIER FRAY TOMORROW (See Page Three)
NUMBER SEVEN

Ferre Gives Otts Lectures On Christianity Next Week
BY TOM VINSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dr. Nels F. S. Ferre will deliver the 1962 Otts Lecture here Nov. 4-6. His overall topic will be “The
Finality of Faith.” Ferre will speak at vespers on the fourth, in assembly Monday morning, in Lingle Chapel Monday night
at 7:30, and will deliver his final lecture in assembly Tuesday.

Rev. M. P. Otts, DD, LLD, established the Otts Lectures in 1893 for the purpose of bringing to the campus
outstanding speakers in support of Christianity. These lectures are usually given every two years. Recent Otts lecturers have been Dr.
George A. Buttrick, Dr. Charles W. Ranson, Dr. Paul L. Lehmann, Dr. Merle C. Outler, Dr. James I. McCord, and
Dr. Joseph Sittler.

Ferre, the son of a Baptist preacher, was born in Sweden in 1908, and came to the United States at
the age of 13. In 1932 he received his BA from Boston University, his BD from Andover Newton Theological School
(Boston), and his MA and PhD from Harvard. He has done post-doctoral work at the universities of Uppsala and Lund
in Sweden. His theological beliefs have ranged from fundamentalist, which he describes as “All heart and almost no mind,” to
critical, “All mind and almost no heart.” His present position is between the two extremes. For seven years, Ferre was
professor of philosophical theology at Vanderbilt, and is now professor of Christian Theology at Andover Newton. While on leave during
his first year, he traveled in 21 foreign countries, teaching in several. His books include Faith and Reason, Modern Theology
(his first love), The Christian Faith, and The Finality of Faith.

Annual Who’s Who Recognizes Nineteen
Nineteen Davidson seniors have been selected for recognition in Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities, published annually in recognition
of outstanding students across the country. Those chosen this year are Danny Carrell, Sam Clark, Ben Cole, Bob Cordle, Douglas,
Rodger Durham, Alex Gibbs, Bill Hagen, Kurtis Hess, Ken Kelley, Lewis Leafer, Neil Nichols, Mike Owen, Stewart, Hal Todd, Bill
Wallace, and Eugene Wells.

Carrell, from Louisville, Ky., is student body president, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity, a member of the
Eumenean society, plays on the basketball team, and is a Sigma Chi. Clark, from Charlottesville, Va., is ROTC Cadet Corps
Commander this semester. He also is a cheerleader and a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Cole is College
Union president, a member of the Scripts and Pranks staff, and is in Sigma Upsilon creative writing fraternity and Alpha
Psi Omega dramatics fraternity. He is from Clearwater, Fla. Cordle, a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, is on both
the varsity football and track teams. From Charlotte, he is also a member of ODK and the Student Council. Douglas,
from Dalton, Ga., is a Dana Scholar and a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Durham is serving as
the first president of the Lingle Manor group. He is from Greensboro. Gibbs plays football, is a member of Scabbard
and Blade, and is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He is from Thomasville. Hagen, from Falls Church,
Va., is editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, a member of Sigma Upsilon and Eumenean society, and is in Pi Kappa Phi
social fraternity. Nichols is the YMCA president and sings in the Chapel Choir. He is from Dallas, Tex. Owen, member
of Theta Pi social fraternity, chairman of the Honor Court, plays football, and is a member of ODK. He is
from Charlotte. Rogers, a Kappa Sigma from Bennettsville, S. C., is IFC president. He is also a member of ODK.
Stewart, this year’s Freshman Advisor, is an Alpha Tau Omega from Lake City, Fla. He is also a member of
the football team and the Student Council. Todd is Quips and Cranks editor. He is a member of Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity and is from Travelers Rest, S. C. Wallace is Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-med fraternity president, a member
of the Honor Court and the D Club. He is a Beta Theta Pi from Charlotte. Wells is president of
Gamma Sigma Epsilon chemistry fraternity and a photographer for Quips and Cranks. A Kappa Alpha, he is from Greenville, S.
C.

Davidson’s Trustees To Attend Conference
Trustees of Church-related colleges in the Southeast, including Davidson, met Thursday, Oct. 25, at the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte
to discuss their responsibilities and functions. Davidson was represented at the meeting by some twelve trustees, and by President D.
Grier Martin. The two-day conference, first of its type ever to be held in the South, was sponsored by Southern
Baptist colleges, the Southern Presbyterian Board of Christian Education, and the Methodist Church Board of Education, but is open to
colleges of all denominations. The conference was split into seven panel discussion groups, and covered topics ranging from “The Responsibilities
of Trustees in the Church-related College” to “The College Problem of Academic Excellence.” Today the conference reconvened at Queens College
where the program was given over to several speakers. Included on the agenda were the Council for Financial Aid to
Education in New York, and John D. Mosely, president of the Council of Protestant Colleges and Universities. Closing the conference
with an after-dinner talk was Frank H. Sparks, president of the Council for Financial Aid to Education in New York,
and John D. Mosely, president of the Council of Protestant Colleges and Universities.

Delegates Attend Press Convention
Representatives of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Wildcat Handbook, and Scripts ‘n Pranks are attending the annual meeting of the Associated Collegiate Press.
The ACP convention is being held at the Sheridan-Carleton Hotel in Detroit. It began today and will continue through Oct.
27. Editor Bill Hagen, Managing Editor David Stitt, Feature Editor Greg Govan, and Sports Editor Bill Pridgen are representing THE
DAVIDSONIAN. Alton Brown is representing Scripts ‘n Pranks. The Wildcat Handbook is sending Tim Kimrey, editor, and Mike Payne, business
manager, to the convention. The American Collegiate Press strives for better standards in student publications. All member publications send representatives
to a meeting each year to exchange ideas and get professional advice from newspapermen and magazine writers. This year the
program includes a speech by Theodore A. Distler. Now Executive Director of the Association of American Colleges, Distler is a
former member of the Davidson College Board of Visitors.

IFC Considers Ideas
Dave Dalrymple has his say-so on the Vespers and Thursday chapel requirements. Students were asked to give not only “yes”
and “no” answers, but also reasons for their responses and to make suggestions for improvements of the program. A special
committee, composed of Jim Glenn, Bill Ferris, and Dr. E. R. MacCormac, will read the survey forms and make a
statement in about two weeks. (Photo by McCutchen).

Davidsonian Retakes All-American Honors
THE DAVIDSONIAN has been awarded an All-American rating for the third semester in a row by the Associated Collegiate Press.
The award, highest possible under the ACP’s rating system, was for the second semester issues of the paper last year.
It was the seventh All-American rating in the past 6 years. THE DAVIDSONIAN scored 3620 of 3700 possible points in
its classification as a weekly paper in the poll conducted this week. Judges suggested that THE DAVIDSONIAN should strive for
better standards in student publications.Harrison E. Salisbury, a former Moscow Correspondent and now director of correspondence for the New York
Times. Awards for outstanding newspapers, annuals, and magazines will also be presented at the meeting.

Lack of clarity in the Rush Week regulations sheet is a prime difficulty for the freshmen. Spratt’s committee recommended a
“styles committee” to revise completely the regulations sheet to make it more coherent. The establishment of an IFC advice center
for freshmen with misunderstandings and complaints during Rush was included in the evaluation.

BY BOB ADAMS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Though not a major problem, violation of the fifteen-minute time limit in a freshman’s room was discussed again this year.
To counteract the negligence of fraternity men, Spratt suggested posters could be printed for each freshman hall as a reminder.
Freshman group leaders could give emphasis to the “gentleman’s agreement” of fifteen minutes. An IFC rush regulator in the dorm
would be no solution, Spratt emphasized.

Considering the problem of giving the freshmen information, the IFC will attempt to better inform the freshmen of the advantages
of fraternities. “I am not suggesting propagandizing but an effort to explain, say, how a fraternity waiter can earn a
considerable part of his board, and things of this nature might be helpful to incoming freshmen,” Spratt stated. There was
a noticeably smaller percentage of freshmen pledging this year than usual.

At the Interfraternity Council meeting Monday night, Rush Committee Chairman John Spratt submitted a Rush Week evaluation which emphasized a
better program for the freshmen in ’63.

The proposal that post office box numbers could be assigned by the school before freshmen arrive was considered by the
IFC. This would provide a more accurate list of freshmen’s addresses. In Spratt’s opinion, it is unlikely that this proposal
would be feasible.

The administration submitted a request that a list of each fraternity's bids be turned in to Dean Burts’ office immediately
after the bid sessions on Friday night of Rush Week. Previously, bids have not been reported until the following Tuesday.

The critique by Spratt's committee will be given to next year’s IFC rush committee chairman. Action on the IFC budget
proposal will come next week.

The Executive Committee has voted to rescind the faculty rule barring freshmen from dropping English, Bible, or Mathematics. Reason for
the change was given as the application of more recent faculty rules, particularly those relating to requirements for entrance into
the Junior Class. An exception to the ruling is Humanities 11-12, which will continue as a course that can be
dropped. English, Bible, and Mathematics will continue to be courses preferred for scheduling in the freshman year. If dropped, they
will have priority in the sophomore year. Also remaining will be the minimum of 12 hours excluding ROTC as the
minimum load.

A contest for original student plays, sponsored by the Drama Department, will end Nov. 5, the deadline date to turn
in any play. The winning play in the contest will earn for its author fifty dollars worth of books of
his own choice, while the author of the second-place play can choose twenty-five dollars worth. The contest is open to
anyone who has written an original play and submits it before the deadline date. Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz said that
the judging of these plays would be on the basis of a short sketch of each one on Dec. 5-6.
At that time each will be acted out or read with rough sets and scenery only to get the idea
of the play. Goodykoontz added that a group of judges will be selected to choose from the plays as presented.
“The only way you can really tell about a play is to try it out,” he commented.

As most of you know, Jim Melton, a sophomore at Davidson, was seriously injured in an automobile accident during the
Homecoming weekend. Jim was in Memorial Hospital for several weeks with both jaws broken. Due to the expense of hospitalization
and several operations, Jim has a very great need for financial help. We, his fraternity brothers in Phi Gamma Delta,
are in the process of contributing to help pay some of this expense, but our help can cover only a
fraction of the need which must be met.

Sometime during the next few days one of us will visit you about contributing to help Jim with his expenses.
We would like to set a campus goal of $1,000, but we want to leave it up to each student
as to how much he can contribute. As a further method of help, next Sunday's Vespers offering is pledged to
help Jim, and we hope to have a door-to-door canvas in town in the next few days. We hope that
you will want to help us.

Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity

Phi Beta Kappa, Who’s Who Select Outstanding Seniors

Phi Beta Kappa will initiate six new members. The fraternity is an American Greek-letter society that is generally considered to
be the most prestigious honor society in the United States. It recognizes outstanding scholastic attainment. The Gamma Chapter of North
Carolina, established in 1923, chose the new members in their fall election. A B-plus or above average is required for
membership, and no more than eight percent of the junior class and 12 percent of the senior class may be
elected.

To be initiated into the society on Friday, Nov. 30, in Eumenean Hall are the following:

BRENNER
Kenn Keith Brenner, history pre-ministerial major. Brenner, from Bethesda, Md., is a member of the German Club and the German
national honorary fraternity, Delta Phi Omega. He is also vice-president of Westminster Fellowship.

CARRELL
Danny Carrell, history major and pre-law student. Carrell, of Louisville, Ky., is a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity and
ODK. He is a member of the Eumenean Literary Society and the D Club and has served on the Student
Council. Carrell is currently President of the Student Body.

LLEWELLYN
Bob Llewellyn, math major. From Murfreesboro, Tenn., he plays in the Concert and Wildcat Bands, and is a member of
the Philanthropic Literary Society. As a member of the debate team, he also belongs to Tau Kappa Alpha national honorary
debating society. Llewellyn also serves as program secretary of the Radio Club.

MARQUIS
Bob Marquis, pre-medical student. Marquis, from Knoxville, Tenn., belongs to Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. He is also a member
of the Philanthropic Literary Society and the Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-medical fraternity.

ROBINSON
Bud Robinson, Jr., math major. Robinson is from Centreville, Miss., and is serving as President of the Sigma Chi social
fraternity. He is a member of the Eumenean Literary Society and the Delta Phi Alpha national honorary German fraternity. He
is also serving on the YMCA Cabinet.

WEEKS
Mike Weeks, Bible major. From Jacksonville, Fla., he is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity and the Delta
Phi Alpha national honorary German fraternity. Weeks is the holder of a Charles A. Dana Scholarship.
