PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 1962

THE AWESOME COURT OF CONTROL tries another “delinquent” freshman, kangaroo style, but this time it met its match in Heg Anderson, ‘60, who went on to higher things as holder of a man himself. The record still stands, but the Court passed away andy hen Sean peer Alma Mater Shelters Tender Young Minds

BY SAM FORT Davidsonian News Editor

“The Davidson student body is unique. Its moral stamina and standards of purity, sobriety, and gentlemanly conduct are admittedly far above the average” or at least THE DAVIDSONIAN thought so in 1915. Whether the assessment was accurate and whether things have changed is difficult to say, but morality is nowhere more amply and interestingly documented than in the 50 volumes of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

GUARDIAN

There are two considerations to keep in mind in surveying Davidson morality—or lack of it—over the past 48 years. One consideration is that Davidson, “especially since it is a church-related school, has traditionally taken it upon herself to be the Guardian of her beer-swilling, lecherous, but nonetheless gentlemanly, scholars’ morality, and this guardianship has especially been reflected in the regulations of the school.” The second consideration concerns the moral attitudes and practices of the students, irrespective of regulations.

In the first area of consideration, the college's concern for the purity, sobriety, etc. of the student body can be traced from as far back as, say, 1923, when President Walter Lingle was warning the incoming freshmen of the evils of the automobile, to 1962 and the “Viridiana” issue.

OFF-CAMPUS DANCES

Undoubtedly feeling that the wheeled monster was a contrivance of the Devil to cause the students to waste their time in “road-flagging and hitch-hiking to the ends of the earth,” as Lingle put it, the college did not allow any student to keep a car on campus until 1946. It might be added, too, that radios weren't allowed in the dormitories until 1934. All dances, until Midwinters of 1945, had to be held off campus (they were usually held at a Charlotte hotel). The regulation was that “The Student Body of Davidson College shall not dance on the property of the Church.” It should be added that the allowing of dancing on holy ground in 1946 carried with it the stipulation that the young ladies be back in Duke dormitory within 30 minutes after the end of the dance.

FAST WORKER

Whether the wisdom behind this landmark in moral legislation arose out of a fear for the girls’ health due to loss of sleep, or out of a realistic recognition of the Davidson Gentleman’s legendary ability to do fast work, cannot be determined. As to how the college felt toward the foremost moral issue year by year—the drinking of alcoholic liquors—well, it still feels the same way.

It is rather ironical that not only was the faculty concerned with the morality of the students, the students were also worried about the faculty's soul(s). An editorial in the early ‘40s condemned the inhumane faculty for hiring mercenaries to murder the campus’ pigeon population.

WINE, WOMEN

As to the second way of considering morality at Davidson, that of the students’ attitude and practice, the thinking can be conveniently concentrated on two timeless moral issues: wine and women. Believe it or not, in the school year 1925-26 a poll by THE DAVIDSONIAN revealed that Davidson students favored prohibition by a ratio of four to one. But if anyone has any doubt as to the Davidsonian’s fondness for the various brews and distillations in more recent years, then he should have heard the cries of indignation in 1960, when a 1935 law had been unearthed in Raleigh which forbade the sale of beer and wine within three miles of Davidson College. Somehow this issue died down (probably with the help of shrewd beer company attorneys) and the indispensable Hattie's continues to run a close second to chapel services in its record of student visits.

Since the woman factor has historically been a very significant one in the morality of weak-willed male-kind, it would be inexcusable to overlook such an important issue in surveying Davidson morality. In fact, the Davidson Man serves as a useful index to his own morality. Evidently, the Davidson woman in the '20s was not the typical flapper. An editorial in 1923 labeled as an exaggeration the figure one college's president drew of college women as being “hard-drinking, cigarette-puffing, licentious Amazons.” Further, it seems that The Woman was almost necessarily of the local sort. Davidsonians rejoiced in an editorial in 1925 that “our sister colleges of Queens, N.C.C.W., Converse, Greensboro College and others” did not follow the example of Bryn Mawr in allowing their young ladies to smoke.

IDEAL WOMAN

In 1926 Davidson students were so interested in the Ideal Woman that THE DAVIDSONIAN conducted a poll. The opinion on the morally pertinent questions concerning the Ideal Woman, whom they named Margaret, showed that a majority disapproved of smoking or drinking by women, but the thing that astounded the editors was that 10.8 percent thought it was alright for Margaret to take a drink. As might be expected, even for 1926, a majority (55 percent) wanted Margaret to make out (the term then was “petting”), while 45 percent said absolutely not. The majority (78 percent) favored dancing.

Davidson morality in the future? This unfortunately is unpredictable, but perhaps 50 years from now Davidson students will casually thumb through the ancient DAVIDSONIAN volumes of the '60s and chuckle quietly to themselves.

The problem of hazing at Davidson has apparently existed ever since there have been freshmen and upperclassmen, and it is interesting to note that hazing has been formally abolished here no less than three times. The first abolition of maltreatment of Davidson freshmen occurred in 1916, when all forms of hazing were abolished, and according to a DAVIDSONIAN editorial, the move was intended to “remove all traces of ‘prepschoolism’ from Davidson and place her on a footing with the few best schools in the South.”

TEN FROSH QUIT

Unfortunately, however, the “vigilance committee” which was designated to deal with freshman conduct proved so ineffective that hazing returned in full force. By 1922, hazing had gotten so out-of-hand that 10 outstanding freshmen quit during the fall semester. The school began to receive very unfavorable letters from the heads of boys’ prep schools as well as from outraged alumni who demanded that the hazing problem be solved. Recognizing the desperate situation, the Student Council drew up plans for a Court of Control which would have the power of punishing freshmen who violated their regulations, but which would also protect the defenseless frosh from any hazing whatsoever. The student body unanimously adopted the council's plans for such a court, and as a result of this action, the administration gave the entire student body a holiday.

The Court of Control seems to have been quite a success early in its career, because the following fall no freshmen felt compelled to leave the campus, and the upperclassmen seem to have been content with the job the court did on the attitudes of the frosh.

P.O. OFF-LIMITS

Regulations in 1924 included speaking to everyone, wearing a beanie, and not walking on the grass, but the freshmen were also not allowed to enter the post office after 8:10 a.m. until the last bell for chapel at 8:34 a.m., and they were required to remain standing in the chapel until all upperclassmen had cleared the room.

The first word of discontent with the Court of Control appeared in a DAVIDSONIAN editorial in 1931. It seems that the court had been missing many offenders because upperclassmen were not turning them in, and this was rendering the court ineffective. The suggested solution was to enlarge the court so that it could serve not only as a regulator, but as an advisory board to the frosh, and this larger court would have the power to call up anyone it wished, whether the party was turned in or not.

CALL-DOWNS ABOLISHED

But despite growing criticism, the Court of Control carried on until...Last year, when the unnecessarily humiliating chapel call-downs got on too many people's nerves, the Student Council under Henry Shue suspended the chapel activities of the Court. Eventually, the whole student body as part of the freshman regulatory program fizzled out, and the Court of the Student Council proposed a Freshman Court, to be headed by the Freshman Advisor, which would serve not only to punish violators of fresh regulations but would endeavor to help rather than humiliate the newcomers.

FACULTY PUSHES ON

The proposal was adopted by the new constitution, and this de-emphasis of harassment of freshmen was pushed further by the faculty, who, aided by the threat of sophomore rush, ruled out such practices as stud running, calisthenics, and shoe shining. This ruling and others like it mean that unless a drastic unforeseen change occurs, hazing at Davidson College is gone for good. But this was said in 1916 and 1923, too.

College Has ‘Abolished’ Hazing Several Times

HAZING? NO, that was abolished in 1916! And again in 1924. Then it stopped for all time when the Greeks kicked the hell out of Hell Week at least a dozen times.

Professors Once Outrated Girls

A DAVIDSONIAN during the war years recalled a time when students liked to visit their professors more than date girls. It said that in the past (it did not say when), “The Davidson Gentleman hardly ever missed a Sunday night at the home of one of his favorite professors... He looked forward to the weekend as we do today—only instead of trying to decide whether he would give the girls at W.C. or Queens a treat, he debated with himself whether he would visit Dr. Brown... or Professor White... In the clinching sentence, he used the war-time conditions in campaigning for a revival of the custom, for at that time cars were “about as scarce as Coca Cola stands on a western desert.”

Rush Practices Have Tradition Of Much Discussion, Little Change

The 48 years since the founding of THE DAVIDSONIAN have seen much discussion on the conduct of fraternity rush, but few changes made. For the most part, these changes have not been radical and were usually meant to maintain the friendly atmosphere that prevails around the court. One of the most noticeable trends is the updating of rush week to the beginning of the fall term. In 1927, November was the month of rush parties and bids, but five years later rush began on the second week of school. This tendency for early rush has continued.

The chief opposition to this trend was the faculty’s 1960 ruling for sophomore rush. In March of that year, with a move that took the student body by surprise, the faculty voted overwhelmingly to begin sophomore rush in the fall term of 1961. No recall was expected. However, a long program of pledge training re-evaluation began with the hope of eventual reinstatement of freshman rush. After months of discussion of proposed revisions, the first hope for fraternity men came in President D. Grier Martin’s statement of November 1960, “I think for Davidson with the quality of men which come here and the quality of the way the fraternity system is set up, that quick rush is better overall.” However, he added, “Whatever has been done or demonstrated has not made much impression on the faculty.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN, though originally in favor of sophomore rush, reversed its decision, mostly on the grounds that a ruling which at least 60 percent of the student body oppose would be detrimental to the school. The resulting lack of freshman social life and increased possibility of “dirty rush” were also factors. The faculty, as a result of actions on the part of the fraternity presidents, postponed the effective date of sophomore rush for at least a year. In conjunction with this were the rulings limiting the time and services a fraternity could expect of its pledges.

As far as the mechanics of rush are concerned, an important change was the elimination of informal bidding prevalent around 1949. After three days of rush parties, a fraternity would extend informal bids to freshmen, which if accepted would let the rushee join his chosen fraternity without going through the rest of the parties. The reason for the elimination was the practice of “hot-boxing” in which a freshman who received a bid was backed into a corner and high-pressured into joining. A poll of the student body at the time showed that while 53 percent of the upperclassmen favored informal rush (with 42 percent opposed), 54 percent of the freshmen disliked the practice.

In 1927, if a rushee had received more than one bid he was allowed a half-hour conference with each fraternity and a half-hour to make a decision. At the end of that time, he was to walk to the house of his choice. In 1932, 15-minute periods replaced the half-hour ones. Before the restriction of rush to the town limits of Davidson, rush parties occurred throughout the area, with Charlotte and the river being favorite locations. At many of these, girls were present to further lure freshmen toward a fraternity pin. One rule in effect in 1916, during the time of late rush, stated, “Freshmen will not be permitted to enter any fraternity hall during the fall term, unless a lady is present in the (Continued On Page Five)

Clearing the hurdles with research

GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS

At Gen Tel, we've made a running start toward solving many of tomorrow's communications problems. For instance, scientists at General Telephone & Electronics Laboratories are working in the uncharted area of the spectrum where radio waves take on the characteristics of light. They have already developed an experimental ultramicrowave system that may one day make possible the transmission of two million messages on a single radio beam in free space. As a major communications company with worldwide connections, General Telephone is helping to advance the science of total communications around the globe. Our stepped-up research in the basic sciences is but one example of the way General Telephone & Electronics combines the talents of many people and the facilities of many companies to meet the future communications needs not only of America but the whole world.