P/ Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

An Academic Crackdown

At no point during the year does underachievement become more an issue than at exam time. Two weeks ago it was uppermost in the minds of cramming students. Today, it is passed off with a laugh as students brag about how well they did in so-and-so’s course while hardly cracking a book. Unfortunately, one can get by at Davidson with a very leisurely approach to studying during the semester capped by an intensive eight-day period of cramming. The “gentleman's C” is not hard to maintain.

In recent issues of THE DAVIDSONIAN, professors have indicated they consider this underachievement a major problem here. Presently, the only underachievers put on the spot are the relatively few who fail to meet the “nine and six rule.” These people, only 28 first semester, are not our major concern. We are disturbed over those students satisfied with half best. Last semester, two or three in this category took stock of themselves and decided to drop out a semester, awaiting a stronger motivation. More of us need to be that honest with ourselves. With the admissions committee reporting that applications are exceeding those of last year in quantity and quality, we are not forced to admit mediocre students. Why should we keep students then, who don't wish to realize their potential?

Total Depravity?

It was bad, fellas. To quote Bob Stone’s too-often repeated line, “This has gotta come to a screeching halt.” The Third Annual Greek Week Skit Night was a roaring failure. It was certainly as bad as the 1958 fiasco, when faculty wives walked out. This year most of them again had to leave. In 1958, Hell Week skits were “permanently” abolished. In 1960 they were restored, supposedly cleaned up and designed for mixed audiences. Well, last night’s weren't.

The IFC and the Fraternity Liaison Officer apparently made two mistakes: they counted too heavily on the originality of the Class of ’65, and on censorship powers of the fraternity officers. The pledges seemed to feel that only the grossest lines would draw laughs—and unfortunately that was true to a large extent. The fraternity presidents, who had been told to censor all skits in rehearsal, fell down on the job, too—some undoubtedly having assisted in writing and producing the “finished” products.

On Wednesday morning, all faculty members, their families, even housemothers, were specifically invited to Skit Night. Those who showed up, perhaps, ought to have guessed what was coming. But after receiving an official invitation, how could they know that the same bad taste would characterize this year’s productions? One thing is sure: if there should be a Fourth Annual Greek Week Skit Night, it will have to be stag. And we aren’t so sure there should be another night like last Wednesday’s.

Organized Independence?

Last Wednesday a group of Davidson students chartered an “organization” to stand for “democracy, brotherhood, individuality, and the betterment of Davidson College.” This Organization promises to fill an ugly gap in the Davidson system.

For years, the social structure of college has been built around the fraternities. Non-members have almost inevitably found that they are seriously, usually mortally hampered in their social life. Independents and inactives alike have pointed to the failings of the fraternities again and again. For many, the fraternities have offered only a shoddy alternative to social non-existence. Now, at last, a reasonable and practicable alternative to the dilemma has been offered—a “brotherhood of free individuals.”

What the phrase means is, however, not yet certain. On a campus where the word “brotherhood” has long been consistently prostituted, most students are inclined to skepticism on the subject. The Organization’s “brotherhood” will be entirely determined by those who join. It is much more important that those independent-minded who want to build a unit in Davidson society in which they can develop as individuals now have an opportunity to do so. Those who are not so inclined are, of course, not obliged to join.

If the meaning that “brotherhood” will take is up to the group, “democracy” is not. The faculty and administration’s attitude as reflected in the proposal is explicitly opposed to the groups becoming an exclusive society. Any step toward becoming a fraternity-like organization would meet a vigorous veto. Membership will be open to every Davidson student, including fraternity members. The Organization will therefore stand apart from the fraternity system. It will not compete with fraternities—neither for members nor in the campus rating game. The Organization will, however, offer an alternative to the Greek way for those who desire it, filling a gap in our system. In this respect it has already accomplished its fourth objective: it truly betters Davidson College.

L. K.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Jordan

BUSINESS MANAGER
Gene Adcock

Associate Editors
Lee Fried
Photographer
Joe McCutchen
Don Saunders
Cartoonists
Doug Ackerman
Managing Editors
Bill Hagen
Howell
Mac Plaxico
Dan Adams
Sports Editor
Steve Clark
Assignments Editor
Jeff Wampler
Advertising Manager
Ed Willer
Feature Editor
Bill Ruth
Circulation Manager
Clay Atkins
News Editor
Sam Fort
Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

This Week In Davidson
By Adams
Paul Adams

‘Meet, Then Move’ Is Demonstrators’ Motto

BY BARBARA FERGUSON
Editor of the University Student of Johnson C. Smith University

(Editor's Note: Last year several Johnson C. Smith students visited the campus to tell of their participation in the sit-in movement, which started and had its first notable success in North Carolina. This article was written to bring students up-to-date on their current activities and for its bearing on the current campus issue.)

“Tonight we meet; tomorrow we move.” This is the motto being used by the students at Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte as they resume demonstrations against segregated facilities. The demonstrations in November and December were the first conducted by the students since April of 1961. After these two days of demonstrations and a long talk between Mayor Stan R. Brookshire, Clyde Carter, student leader, and Dr. R. A. Hawkins of Charlotte, Belk Brothers agreed to open its cafeteria and Ivey's opened its Tulip Terrace.

Dr. Hawkins, who is supporting the student movement in every way possible, stated at a mass meeting of the student body that “we are again facing another new day. Segregation is dead, but who is going to bear the high cost of this funeral?”

Demonstrations also were resumed at the Carolina and the Imperial theaters, S & W Cafeteria, and the Charlotte and the Barringer hotels. At present, the students have ceased demonstrations until further responses from Mayor Brookshire, the Community Relations Committee, and the managers of the places which were picketed.

Carter, seminarian, chairman of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, and freedom rider from Birmingham, Ala., said, “The protest conducted by Johnson C. Smith students recently was not really conducted only with the desire to desegregate the eating and movie facilities here in Charlotte.”

Other members of SNCC include Kenneth Washington, vice chairman and Barbara Ferguson, secretary. These persons along with Carter conferred with the Mayor's Community Relations Committee on January 10. It was on this occasion that the students presented a statement which in essence asked for complete desegregation in all areas. This includes housing and employment as well as recreational and public facilities.

The renewed demonstrations, unlike those of the past which required masses of people, were conducted by fourteen students. The number of students was reduced partly because of the law passed by the City Council restricting to ten the number of persons per block who are participating in a demonstration. The number also was reduced because the students now have the privilege of sitting around the conference or bargaining table with the Mayor’s committee or the owners of the establishments and discussing the problems and their possible solutions. The few persons who are picketing are just a reminder to the public that the students have not given up in their fight for equal rights and an elimination of segregation and segregated facilities. These demonstrations are also aimed at job opportunities.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Kamm Thanks Students; Patterson Pens Retort

Dear Editor:

Once more, for the last time during my stay at Davidson College, willI make use of your newspaper. This time it is to express my appreciation to all persons who made possible my coming to this institution, and also to all others that made my stay so successful. The time has come for me to leave all of you and, though I am not completely satisfied with the outcome of my mission in the United States, at least I can proudly say that I tried to do everything possible to give all of you, or at least some of you, a clear idea of the way we live, the way we think, and the way we act in Argentina. Yes, though you may say that we Richardson Scholars only “take it easy” and have a good time while we learn a little more English, we all have a mission. This mission is not necessarily to show that we are able to do well in our studies in a foreign language, but it is to show you that there is good will and understanding between the countries we represent and yours. Many of you welcomed me as a brother when I first came to Davidson. And that was a big help, I tell you, for I really needed somebody patient and willing to spend some of his time showing me around and introducing me to the new and strange customs. The only way in which I can pay you back is if you come to Argentina. I know it will not be easy; I also know it is expensive. But this offer remains open to anybody who cares to make use of it, now or later. I also want to thank everybody outside the student body that gave me such high hopes and confidence at the time when I was in the hospital, and I appreciate all the deeds they did for me. Thank you again, good-bye, good luck, see you in Argentina.

Norberto Kamm
Richardson Scholar

Patterson

Dear Editor:

May I use your columns to state a few facts and make some observations about “Operation Abolition?” (I hasten to add that these “facts” will not be “facts” for everyone, for, as I stated on another occasion, what are facts for the goose are not necessarily facts for the gander.) First, no one denies that only a small portion of a large amount of film was used in preparing “Operation Abolition.” Second, everyone knows that any condensation, or quoting or use out of context—textual, historical, or chronological—results in a more or less distorted and false representation of the original. The apologists for “Operation Abolition” correctly note that this is an inevitable and unavoidable result. Then they go on to compare the “Operation Abolition” film with documentary films and television programs, some of which are truly great and have real educational value.

It is at this point in the argument that the facts and logic of the apologists go awry. The usual documentary is created by selecting from a great amount of material those items which best reveal, in the opinion of the creator, a few facts about or aspects of some particular problem, event, or a society. But the facts or aspects have some real basis in the real world, and are not themselves false or figments of the imagination of the creator. “Operation Abolition” was created to reveal two “facts.” These were (1) that the University of California student protest—more accurately, community protest, for almost every element in the San Francisco community, business, labor, government, civic, etc., opposed the holding of the hearings (protests from these same groups had caused Chairman Walter to cancel scheduled hearings in 1959)—against the HUAC 1960 San Francisco hearings was “Communist inspired and led,” and (2) that the riots at City Hall were deliberately planned and initiated by the students under the leadership of Communists. Both of these “facts” were patently false from the beginning, and everyone connected with “Operation Abolition” knew it. The falseness has been proven by subsequent investigations by numerous reliable and objective groups and individuals, and in court trials involving students arrested during the riots. All this leaves the apologists for “Operation Abolition” with only one justification for the film and its continued use. This is that the Communists use the same tactics of deliberate distortion with malice aforethought, and since they represent absolute evil, one is justified in using any means to expose and defeat them. (“One must fight fire with fire” is, I believe, the way this is expressed in the more vulgar vernacular.) One can only conclude that if the apologists want to use this justification, they are welcome to it.

Dr. Ernest F. Patterson

Greek Charges That Dey Evaded Real Goa Issue

BY COSTAS STATHATOS
Richardson Scholar

(Editor’s Note: This was originally written as a letter to the editor.)

Though not an American, I was also surprised on hearing about India’s invading Goa. Having read last month’s article, entitled “Goa Goads Discussion of Indian Political Attitudes,” I dare say, that I was not enlightened at all since the article—I think—was a kind of beating about the bush with no emphasis upon the vital justification or condemnation of the situation. Neither one could I find. That was the first time I came across this paradox: in a democratic country the large majority is against the government and yet it can do nothing! I can’t quite understand it. If we take it for sure, we are necessarily led to such thoughts:

INDIAN DEMOCRACY DISCUSSED

(a) There is no democracy in India; instead there is a kind of dictatorship. But that is quite impossible given that the present government was elected by the people. Besides there is more than one political party.

(b) If we accept that the people’s expectations based on this government came to be thoroughly false, we have to accept, at the same time, lack of political maturity on the part of the electors themselves. The history of the country, however, contradicts it.

OPINION HAS INFLUENCE

At any rate, a government represents the people. We can’t accept that a democratic government does not take the public opinion into consideration. That is typical of the iron-curtained Red Paradise. We cannot also say that the government of Mr. Nehru—the “neutral” opportunist—invaded Goa and that that was against the will of the people of India. He would never throw the public opinion in the waste basket! Usually the people do not play any active part. They simply go to the ballots and invest their “activity” in the government, and if the government proves to be inconsistent they resist it (passive resistance originated in India). But they did not resist the invasion although they are of the “revolutionary type.” What we want to know, however, is whether the invasion itself was warrantable or not! There are facts which call for an answer.

Costas Stathatos
Richardson Scholar

Writer's Reverie Creates Well-Scrambled Semester

BY BILL HAGEN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

After living through exams, with all our intellectual incense burned out, and with our New Semester Resolutions made, it is time once again to get back into the jovial sadistic swing of things.

FEBRUARY

The administration begins to worry as reports of overnight disappearances of whole pledge classes filter in. Rumor has it, though, that certain fraternities combined their pledges to work on a Secret Project. The Union Film Committee announces the scheduling of a Religious Film Festival featuring “Ben Hur,” “King of Kings,” and “And God Created Woman.” Mrs. Moore asks third floor Watts to pay for the windows shattered in their fight after another heavy snow. The frustrated Book-of-the-Year Committee finally announces its selection of The Bible. And, as the month draws to a close, the sap begins to rise in the ginkgo trees.

The IFC announces it has contracted Connie Francis, The Everly Brothers, and Fabian for Spring Frolics. Mrs. Moore fines first floor Belk for windows broken in an orange fight. The advent of tax returns is evidenced by a new flush of business at Hattie’s, always a reliable gauge of local economic prosperity. “Mass bids” are issued for the ROTC Ball. The department sees red as numerous “Independents” turn down bids and demonstrate the following Tuesday. Spring and sunshine arrive in full force on the Davidson campus, to stay till at least a few days before Spring Frolics. Students fill the library to cram for Good Friday reviews, a growing tradition. While walking toward Belk, a scholarship boy slips and sprains his ankle on a broken bottle of suntan lotion.

Since Fabian, at the last minute, is sent on a State Department Good Will Tour to Arizona, we are again serenaded by Joni James. The ginkgo trees blossom forth beautifully. Mrs. Moore issues a “cease and desist” order to fourth floor Richardson as a result of broken windows from frisbee fights.

The administration's worst fears about the Secret Project are more than realized as a secret runoff from Lake Norman creates Pond Patterson. The Phi Delts make the first short cut across it with a new asbestos pontoon bridge. An adventurous group of seniors is foiled in its attempt to hacksaw the flagpole in time for graduation. After several near-drownings the college prohibits tug-of-war contests across the new pond. The falling of Rapid Shave and deodorant sales in town mark the coming of exams. The semi-annual pre-exam game of musical chairs in the language lab is renewed with vigor. The entire college power mower force is immediately mobilized to cover areas between the dorms and, on the day before the last exam, a loose goat gets in the Reserve Reading Room and eats Melvin Furd's Bible notes.

PEANCLES