PAGE FOUR

Oldest College Servant Dies, Ends Early Era

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Enoch Donaldson died last Sunday morning, and it is said that an era died with him. He left a long record of faithful service to the college and the genuine affection of “his white folks.” Enoch was born somewhere “over the river,” the Catawba, but just when is a mystery. He used to say “the year before the Freedom” or the year after, or sometimes the year of. Going back to the Emancipation Proclamation of 1863, this would make the old janitor 100.

Piecing together fragments, Dr. Chalmers Davidson figures he was at least 94, and could easily have been a centenarian. Whatever his age, Enoch came to Davidson sometime in the early 1880s, a young married man. In those days, students could hire janitors for about a dollar a month. In this way, Enoch began his service to the college. Then Dr. J. B. Shearer was president of the school, and Enoch served him until his death in 1918. Enoch’s attachment to the aging executive was such that he was known to the students as “the Vice-President.” After Dr. Shearer’s death, Enoch went back to being a janitor, and retired from his post in the old physics building in 1950. Such was the record of his service that the college continued his salary into retirement.

PATERNALISTIC AGE

But it was a strange sort of retirement. For Enoch Donaldson was one of the last members of a paternalistic age. To him, every student was always “Mister” and every yes followed by a sir. And although he was a small man, he had a natural dignity that came largely from “the folks he belonged to.” He was content in the servant-employer relationship and found security in the people he served. It is necessary to understand the age that may have died with Enoch in order to understand how he called Drs. Douglas, Jackson, and Lingle “all friends of mine” and how he cherished the watch that Dr. Shearer had given him.

So Enoch could never have retired. He was the link with the long-departed undergraduate past, for many the only one who could share the old memories. For that reason, you seldom saw old Enoch standing at the door of Chambers on Homecoming or Commencement without an alumnus calling back about Enoch. Even Dean Rusk inquired last week. And up until about two years ago, his “God Almighty bless you, sir,” was a familiar sound as he opened the doors to his “boys grown old.” It cost you a quarter left in the friendly handshake, but it was a genuine blessing, and Enoch meant it.

There never was any question but that Enoch was shrewd. He had an uncanny sense of human nature which he used in his own sincere way. For instance, when he used to tell Mayor, then Treasurer, F. L. Jackson that he was sure that he was going to heaven and everything was alright, but, “If I needed anything you wouldn’t let me down.”

LOYAL SERVANT

Dr. Jackson called Enoch a “faithful, loyal, dependable servant,” and can tell more than one tale of the janitor’s way with alumni and administration alike. It is said that Jackson’s predecessor, Dr. John Douglas, trusted Enoch alone with the office keys. And there is always the story of Enoch’s amazement when he found out that Dr. John Cunningham was also the President of Dr. Jackson, the paymaster.

Dr. Jackson expressed the hope that the college would see to an appropriate marker for its servant. In recognition of his faithful service to Dr. Shearer, Dr. Jackson wished that the words from Shearer’s headstone be duplicated on Enoch Donaldson’s: “A Sinner Saved By Grace.” That might express some of the lost something that was Enoch, and the affection he left behind.

Second Semester Exam Schedule

A.M. Second hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
THURS. A.M. Second hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
May 17 P.M. Third hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
May 18 P.M. Fourth hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
A.M. Sixth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
May 21 P.M. Third hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
May 22 P.M. Fourth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
WED. A.M. First hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
THURS. A.M. First hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
May 24 P.M. Fifth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Abernethy
Goldiere
Bernard
Holland
Clark
Hopkins
Embry
Lord
Fredericksen
Lobanov

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Martin, D. G.
Puckett
Wheaton
Woods
Workman

Lord Gives All-Bach Recital This Sunday

Dr. Robert Sutherland Lord will present an all-Bach organ recital in the College 4:30 p.m. This program will be part of the Organ Recital Series. A Davidson alumnus, Douglass Wauchope, of Brevard, North Carolina, has recently installed two new ranks of pipes in the college church’s Schlicker organ. These new pipes come from the Rosar organ which used to be housed in Shearer Hall, Davidson’s former fine arts building; and they will be used publicly for the first time in Sunday’s recital. Dr. Lord will play the Vivace movement from “Trio Sonata No. 6,” the “Concerto in A minor” after Vivaldi, along with four chorale preludes. The chorale preludes are “In Thee is Joy,” “Oh Man, Bewail Thy Grievous Sins,” “These are the Ten Holy Commandments,” and “Deck Thyself, My Soul with Gladness.”

T.V. CAMERAMEN are no strangers to the Davidson campus due to the large number of notable visitors recently. Here one is getting a short interview with Congressman Walter Judd before a coffee hour. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Conservative Spokesman: Russia Is Like A Cancer

Another member of our national government’s conservative element made a foray this week into the more-than-receptive camp of Davidson College. The visitor, the former medical missionary to China and at present a nationally recognized spokesman on U.S. foreign policy, has visited the college twice before, in 1931 and 1940.

SPORTS SIMILES

Judd quickly won the undivided attention of his chapel audience with his use of sports similes and on numerous occasions drew from his medical knowledge to bring out a point. Judd began by putting special emphasis on the basic difference between the conference table tactics of Russia and the U.S. He bemoaned the fact that Americans believe that Russians are sincere in their apparent efforts toward coexistence with the West. “When Whitey Ford stands up to pitch to a good hitter, he doesn’t try to throw the pitch which is the easiest to hit.” Similarly, the Soviet Union uses diverse tactics.

Student Elections

For secretary-treasurer, 86 were nominated and 38 of this group chose to run. Nine candidates were again left after Wednesday’s voting with Betes, Grant, Heffner and Walker carrying over to today’s runoff. Voting will resume the first of next week on the president and secretary-treasurer. Meanwhile, nominations will be made Thursday for positions on the Honor Court with voting beginning.Texas, graduated from Davidson in 1931. Since then he has served as minister at churches in Kentucky, Mississippi, and Missouri. For eight years he was minister of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte.

The following week, voting will get underway on the YMCA officers, publications head, and the freshman adviser.

Dean Rusk is a well-chosen Secretary of State," stated Judd. “As Undersecretary of State for the Far East during the Korean War, Rusk was burned once by the Communists. He will not make the same mistakes again.”

What about Korea and the Cuban invasion? The congressman thinks that the U.S. should have taken the steps necessary to bring about victory for the West in both cases. “The U.S. always stays on the defensive. When we recover a fumble on their 40-yard line, we fail to capitalize on our good fortune. Almost as if we agreed not to use their end of the field.”

EYES SHUT

With eyes resting shut in a malaria-scarred face, Judd displayed his fervor with wild gesticulations to rival the most excited Frenchman. He pleaded, emphasized, explained, bellowed, whispered, and preached. He may have felt himself again in the mission field. His answers to questions put to him at the coffee hour were long and detailed—during the hour, time permitted only five or six questions.

PROPOSED CHANGES

The Congressman proposes various changes in U.S. foreign policy:
—How should the U.S. gain initiative in the Cold War? “We must get the Free World together. We must prove to new countries and our allies that we stand behind our stated policies.”
—To what extent should we negotiate? “Negotiations must cease to be a Russian time-gaining maneuver. We must stop being afraid; we're not going to insult Russia into war.”
—Just how far do we dare push Russia? “As far as it takes to ensure the end of Red advance. Every time that we have challenged the Russians, they have backed down.”
“Russia is like a cancer. There is some danger if you operate, but it may be certain death if you do not.”

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Church, Sunday, March 4, at 4:00 PM. The recital will be the fourth in the current series. The program will conclude with “Toccata and Fugue in D minor,” which was also performed ten years ago by E. Power Biggs at the dedication ceremony of the organ.

Professor Lord is a graduate of Dartmouth and has received his MA and PhD degrees from Yale. He has studied both in the U.S. and abroad with such notable organists as Leo Schrade, Clarence Watters, Jean Langlais, and Andre Marchal. The organist will receive guests in the student lounge of the church following the recital.

French Organist Visits Wednesday

Jean Langlais, noted French organist and composer, will be on the campus next Wednesday as the guest of Dr. Robert S. Lord, who studied under him in Paris a few years ago. Langlais, who is blind, is currently on a four-month concert tour of the United States. He will be playing at Winthrop College Tuesday night, and a number of Davidson students are planning to attend. Anyone interested in transportation should see Dr. Lord. Two Davidson organist students, Bill Pruitt and Van Quinn, are playing for Langlais at Winthrop Monday. While on the campus, the Frenchman will be the guest of campus organ students for a dinner Wednesday night.

THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1962

DR. ERNEST PATTERSON reviews Dean Rusk’s visit before an apparently solemn and pensive audience. This was one of the weekly informal ‘Reviews of the News’ at the College Union. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Literary Societies Seek New Interest

The Philanthropic Literary Society is at present planning to compile its history from old records now in the college library and desks in Phi Hall. Dave Breiten, Phi president, says his group hopes to find a constitution in the disorganized documents. The Philanthropic Society will initiate selected freshmen next Monday. Eu initiated 20 freshmen recently. Bob Rea, Eu president, notes that the societies are for students interested in debate, drama, and literature who don’t have enough time for the more intensive participation required for the debate team or the Vagabonds. Tom Poston, Eu vice-president, stating that the societies are often nothing more than a name to write on a scholarship form, hopes to revive the interest of the members. “Now the meetings are a burden. I'd like them to be something the members would want to come to." He added that the interest of many of the present members is limited to coming to enough meetings “to avoid being kicked out.” Both the Philanthropic and Eumenean societies will continue regular meetings, presenting talks, discussions, debates, drama skits, and serving coffee and doughnuts. The annual debate for the literary society cup, now held by Eumenean, will be staged in late April.

Chairman McRight Directs Committee Of Social Club

The steering committee of the new non-Greek social organization on campus has met several times since its formation by vote of students interested in the organization. The committee, under the direction of chairman Danny McRight, has met for the purpose of drawing up a tentative constitution for the organization. The committee is composed of seniors McRight and David Jordan, juniors Ben Cole and Rodger Durham, sophomores Neal Bushoven and Al Mullen, and freshmen Pat Fisher, Rufus Hallmark, and Dick Vines. Meeting with Prof. Sam Maloney, the committee has studied the make-up of organizations similar to the one proposed for Davidson. So far the committee has reviewed the constitutions of groups at Trinity College, the University of the South, Washington and Jefferson College, and Mercer University. Any document drawn up will be subject to approval by students interested in joining such an organization as well as by the proper college officials. The proposed group will be centered around the principles of “democracy, brotherhood, individuality, and the betterment of Davidson College.” All students will be eligible for membership, and it has been emphasized that the group cannot become the basis for a Greek letter fraternity. The committee is still in the early stages of writing the constitution, and it welcomes any suggestions for a possible name of the proposed group.

PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS

Monday — Connecticut General Life Insurance Co.
Tuesday — J. Walter Thompson, Advertising
Wednesday — J. Walter Thompson, Advertising, Duke Power Co.
Thursday — Tennessee Eastman Co., Warner Brothers Co., First National Bank of S. C., DuPont
Friday

SALUTE: MARTIN CAWLEY

When Martin Cawley joined Illinois Bell Telephone Company a year and a half ago, he immediately was assigned to the Building Engineer's Group. This work involved preparing plans and specifications for remodeling several floors of an important telephone office building, and following details of the field work until the job was completed. It was a lot of responsibility, but he handled it well and earned an assignment as Project Engineer. Now he handles still more complex building projects, each contributing to better telephone service for Chicago. Martin Cawley and other young engineers like him in Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country help bring the finest communications service in the world to the homes and businesses of a growing America.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
TELEPHONE MAN OF THE MONTH