Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

B Plus For Improvement

The recent meeting of the faculty produced some very happy and significant changes in the Davidson curriculum. Some of the changes, such as the optional year of advanced physics for pre-meds and the change in Music 41-42, will make these courses available to a larger number of students. The one-semester music course will be offered both semesters, making it easier for students to work the course into their elective schedules. The change in the pre-med major will make it easier to work in the advanced physics, which is increasingly needed, without over-taxing the already heavily loaded pre-med schedule.

The introduction of the basic calculus course for freshmen is another development in the math department’s long and carefully-studied curriculum changes, which have kept the department in pace with the latest developments in mathematics teaching and the rapid changes in the high school preparation of entering freshmen. The new accelerated course in French meets the needs of both the freshmen who have had preparation in French and of upperclassmen who are already proficient in one language or who want rapid preparation in a second language for graduate school. Both this course and the introduction of Italian into the curriculum reflect the same progressive spirit in meeting the changing needs and preparation of the students with a carefully tested and planned use of the latest methods that has long distinguished the math department.

The extensive changes in the History curriculum are certainly welcome and long overdue. The course in Twentieth Century American History has been expanded to two semesters. History 53 will combine three of Dean Johnston’s courses in Nineteenth Century America. The advantage of both these changes lies not only in the elimination of unnecessary overlapping but, chiefly, in the fact that these courses will now be offered every year, thereby solving many of the history major’s scheduling problems. Prof. Marrotte’s new course in Asian politics is a much-needed addition. All of these changes reveal the kind of perpetual revaluation of the curriculum with foresight and careful planning which is necessary to keep the course offerings up-to-date and in tune with the aims of a liberal education and the needs of the students.

The elimination of the Sophomore English for B.S. students reflects in many ways the opposite of this ideal. Although the change is probably justified in its present context, the fact that the English Department has been forced to drop the course indicates, we feel, a lack of the proper foresight, planning, and intra-departmental cooperation in bringing about the necessary changes in the curriculum. It is not enough to decide that it would be nice to have a course and write it in the catalogue. The purpose, nature, and substance of the course must be carefully worked out in advance and integrated into the whole of the department’s curriculum. The English Department should be commended for dropping a course it considers ineffective. The move, however, calls for further revamping of the courses, particularly in the light of the Interdepartmental Humanities course, perhaps a reconsideration of the whole English curriculum.

No, Virginia

This past week the Virginia Supreme Court ruled that Prince Edward County is under no constitutional obligation to support public schools. This was another disappointing chapter in the story of the struggle for equal school facilities in that area of central Virginia. Three years ago the county abandoned its public school system to avoid Supreme Court-ordered integration. Since that time, white pupils have been attending special private schools by aid of state tuition grants, while the county’s 1,700 Negro children have gone without any schools.

Such a situation is deplorable. Virginians are cutting off their nose to save their face. The economic and social problem of the Negroes, who are a majority of the county’s population, is only aggravated by the elimination of educational opportunities. What people will do to maintain their early 19th-century concepts of racial superiority and to keep from associating with those blacks! We will have intermarriage, they shout. Perhaps the most discouraging aspect of this week’s move was the reaction of Virginia’s new governor, Albertis S. Harrison. The Byrdman reported he was “gratified” by the court's ruling.

The race dispute now returns to the U.S. District Court. Meanwhile, the prospects are bleak for schools next September. Nevertheless, the State constitution continues to require that the legislature establish and maintain an efficient system of public schools throughout the commonwealth. What does the legislature think of this? Concluding its annual session in Richmond this week, the members generally applauded the decision. During the session, there was one whisper in favor of reopened schools. The proposal for a state budget appropriation was quickly defeated.

The right of all people to a public education found an early champion in America in Thomas Jefferson, whom all Virginians continue to adulate. Whether one favors or opposes integration (and we see this as immaterial in the light of the U.S. Supreme Court ruling), this long-established principle of a public education available to all still remains. Gov. Harrison and his legislature seem to have forgotten this, or else find it very easy to violate the constitution under which they serve for the sake of narrow-minded prejudice against people of as great or greater individual worth.

How About Huntley-Brinkley?

For several months the Union Roundtable Committee has sponsored a “review of the news” each Monday night in the Union Lobby. Several faculty members have passed the job around and have drawn fairly good crowds at these half-hour sessions.

Students who attend these sessions regularly have heard discussed such issues as the admittance of Red China to the UN, the impact of the Common Market on the U.S. economy, and the visit of Dean Rusk to Davidson. Roundtable Committee chairman Dave Gilmour has done a good job in finding a wide range of speakers from the campus, representing the Economics, English, Philosophy, and even Biology departments.

We are glad to see student response, which is promising. We expect that one reason is the informality of the sessions, which are usually limited to a half-hour each. We hope there will continue to be interest in the discussion of vital, timely topics. A suggestion to Gilmour and the Roundtable Committee: how about expanding the program by asking a few outsiders to speak? We think reporters from the Charlotte Observer or News, or commentators from Charlotte radio and TV stations would be glad to come out, have supper on campus, and hold a short program in the Union. It would help to give a wider slant on issues, to the profit of the student body and to the continued improvement of a good program.

DBS.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Jordan

BUSINESS MANAGER
Gene Adcock

Associate Editors
De Lee Kuby

Managing Editors
Bill Saunders

Assignments Editor
Jeff Wampler

Feature Editor
Bill Ruth

News Editor
Sam Fort

Photographer
Joe McCutchen

Cartoonists
Dave Ackerman

Circulation Manager
Clay Atkins

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Third Annual Oink... By Ackerman

Ackerman. Delegate States Opinion Of N. S. A. Conference

BY JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Student Council joined NSA last spring in an avowed attempt to lift the foggy provincialism that pervades the whole campus. The Council generally agreed, however, to wade slowly into the association. That way both desirable and objectionable could be determined from first-hand accounts, conferences, organizational literature, etc.

Dean Burts and I took part in one of these “first-hand accounts” two weeks ago in a conference on Academic Freedom at Duke. I bring back to this column only my personal opinions and conclusions.

A former editor of the student newspaper at the University of Michigan keynoted the morning session with an address on in loco parentis. He was sharp and brisk, so much so, in fact, that the rest of the meeting was rather anti-climatic. Starting with the university presidents, he worked his way through the professors down to the lowliest amoeba of a student, outlining his visions for the ideal university. In the end, he had created an institution devoid of any control, featuring totally unfettered freedom. He bemoaned the shameful fact that a person sells away his freedom when entering a university, serving for four years as an indentured lackey. The proverbial old Davidson quip, “You knew it was like this when you came here,” was satirized to shreds. “In that case,” said the chairman, “our only choice is which university shall we be subservient to.”

The evening session turned inevitably to one of NSA’s foster children, the Southern Protest Movement... a collective noun for the more vernacular terms, sit-in strikes, freedom riders, etc. I was able to glean from this symposium a few salient facts about the group leaders’ views on race relations. Integration by itself won't work. In fact, to end discrimination, discrimination will have to be counter-aimed against whites. This will eventually establish a “natural” equilibrium.

From all this and too much more to mention, I drew two personal conclusions: 1.) That things at Davidson weren't actually as bad as at the other colleges represented, and 2.) That those things that are in questionable shape are subject to the whims of the gods; and what NSA says, thinks, or does will have little effect on the adamant Executive Committee, et al.

The only area left, therefore, is that of broadening student opinion, somehow charming out of apathy the student body’s latent talents. Whether in agreement or disagreement, NSA can give campus opinions a thorough grooming. However, NSA will serve...little purpose in launching quixotic beachheads on ridiculous islands or in elbowing its way down crowded streets of opinion. And Davidson College must respond. This may be unfeasible from both sides. The Council will have to decide that again this fall.

Outline Of USNSA

The U.S. National Student Association, of which Davidson is currently a member, was conceived in the minds of 25 students who attended the World Student Congress in Prague right after World War II. In 1947, at the University of Wisconsin campus, delegates from 356 schools met, wrote the constitution for the USNSA, chose its name, and decided on the basis of its representation. It was decided that the democratically elected student governments on the various campuses were to be that basis. But it should be noted that through these governments every student of the college or university is, in fact, a member. It is this fact that must be kept in mind when we read President John Kennedy’s statement, “The National Student Association has splendidly articulated our national ideals and reflected the vigor of our college and university young people.” Thus, when our delegate(s), along with those from approximately 400 other schools, attend the annual National Student Congress this summer, their decisions will stand as representative of the majority of all the college students in the nation.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Sociological Scott Girl Hits Informal Weekend

Ferris

Dear Editor:

Several weeks ago we read with amusement the editorial from a DAVIDSONIAN of 1921, calling the “true southern gentlemen” to defend “the American standard of clean manhood and pure womanhood.” I don’t think this article is nearly as ridiculous as it first appears. It points out a myth which hovers today over student life at Davidson. This is the myth of Davidson's “Christian Gentlemen.” This ideal, if it ever existed, is now gone. The only people who continue to believe in it are the faculty and trustees. They look upon Davidson as a garden which, if fertilized properly, will produce the expected fruits, i.e., the “Christian Gentleman.” The student here is nurtured through four years of required chapel and vespers in hopes he will emerge as some sort of “Bible-toting” individual (I use the word with restrictions) who will tread the narrow path of virtue in life. The gentlemanly aspects are carefully developed by the gardeners. Students develop in an all-white environment. This prevents any sort of contamination from inferior breeds. Of course, as Gentlemen, we must occasionally condescend to help the Negroes. But only occasionally. This “garden plan” might succeed if students could be expected to respond to a given stimulus with a given response. Unfortunately, this is not the case. What is happening is that we do not really care about your “Christian Gentleman.” The few who care are so repulsed at the means used to promote the ideal that they turn from it with disgust. Perhaps it might be a good idea to let the student decide for himself whether he wants to attend a church service or sit beside a Negro in his class.

Bill Ferris
Scott

Dear Editor:

I have attended a number of Davidson dance weekends and have noticed their increasing informality. I understand that your student body is discussing whether to continue the present trend or to go back to the formal and semi-formal dances with informal after-dance parties. I would like to contribute a girl’s point of view. From a sociological standpoint, ritual or formality gives importance to an occasion. The formal and semi-formal dances at Davidson in past years have added excitement and enthusiasm to the dance weekends, not to mention variety. The after-dance parties were more fun because of the contrast with the formal dances. Now the thought of skirts and sweaters and rock ‘n roll all weekend makes a girl wonder if it is worth train or plane fare. She might as well wait until she can get a ride, she has less work to do, or her date can visit her.

A Student at Agnes Scott

Casual P.O. Conversation Has Typical Grave Issues

BY BOB IVEY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

They were standing in front of the post office, I believe—two typical Davidson students, on this cold, overcast day in March, analyzing issues of grave and significant import. These men were intellectuals to be sure, identified by their complexity of conversation and their casualness of dress. It had been said before that “great minds work together,” but here was the supreme example. These boys were not brothers, not roommates, possibly only fraternity brothers, and yet as they stood there one could easily observe the similarity of their thinking—manifested by the amazing resemblance of their dress: white ducks, weejuns, no socks, madras shirts, shirt-tails out, and a sweater neatly and casually wrapped around their necks.

INTELLECT SHOWN

Their conversation further exemplified their intellect by their abilities to make rational analysis of prevailing campus situations: The less reticent of the two began: “ ‘Ja hear that we won the vote on Spring Frolics?”

“Yeah,” replied the other—succinct, pertinent, lucid.

“Just think—more good loud guitars and drums. All night long. Nothing but loud yelling and a good beat. Great music. Like we had Midwinters—Otis, Johnny, and Buster—gosh, they were wonderful.”

And, once again, that thought-provoking assertion of agreement, “Yeah.”

BOYCOTT POWER

“ ‘Course, we were a cinch to win the vote this time—especially after so many of us pulled out on everybody at Homecoming. Golly, they really must’ve missed us. But what'd they expect—‘us’ staying around for those cornball Four Aces and Ralph Flannagan and all? Lotsa luck. Whoever heard of them anyway?”

As the other agreed, the first went on to state the obvious and sound reasoning that if our parents had ever heard of them, then we surely don’t want them. He continued, “Also heard that we’re gonna get the loudest band in North Carolina for our after-party. Doesn’t matter how they sound, as long as it’s loud. Gosh, it should be just as great as the dance if they’re drunk enough. That’ll be some great. Long and loud—all night long. If there's anything I can’t stand, it’s variety.”

VERBAL POWER

“We were sure to get that rock and roll thing pushed through this time. Say it just right and everybody’ll vote like you want ’em to. One of the IFC guys in a borderline fraternity said he just asked his fraternity whether they’d rather have ‘the Coasters, or some dance band you never heard of?’ Even the guys who do like a little variety couldn’t vote but one way on that! And there’s no problem with some of these fraternities; they know that if they’re gonna be ‘good guys’ like us, they’ve gotta vote for rock and roll. It wouldn’t look sharp for them to vote the other way.”

“Yeah.”

“This shows those other colleges what Davidson’s made of. No more coats and ties for us. The grubbier the better. I told my date Midwinters that if she just had to dress up for something, she could just get up and go to church Sunday. Ha ha ha.”

“Yeah, Ha ha.”

“ ‘Course we didn’t get the Coasters, but you know who we are having. Gosh, I can’t wait to go home and tell everybody that we had the real Dakota Staton for Spring Frolics. She does sing rock and roll, doesn't she? Do you know about the concert? Lester and Earl! They’re really getting up to our level now. This is really some class. This has just gotta be a great weekend. Rock, rock, rock—loud and long—grubby clothes—the whole weekend—wow. And we'll probably get ’em to have them like this from now on. Great.”

“Yeah. From now on. Great.”

Taejon Math Teacher States Financial Need

BY J. P. CAMERON
Mathematics Department

Taejon College President John Talmage of Taejon College has already written the official letter of appreciation to the Davidson student body and faculty for the gift of money which has been presented to our college. I do not believe that anyone there at Davidson can actually realize how very timely this gift is. Our mission is in serious financial difficulties, causing the college to face a budget cut in the coming fiscal year. In my opinion, the budget is unrealistically low anyway. This notwithstanding, we are at present desperately trying to equip a chemistry laboratory to meet the needs of seniors who are majoring in that subject.

KOREAN SITUATION

Let me try to give you a fair picture of our situation here in Korea. In the first place, the aim of the college is to educate Christian men and women who will be able to take places of leadership in Korean society, and as such, be effective Christian laymen in their various vocations. In this day, the Korean young people as well as the youth of other countries of Asia are striving mightily to become educated in all fields, especially in science. For too long, many people in America have thought of the “mission field” as a place where a missionary ministers to half-dressed, half-civilized people. Of course in some areas this is true, but not in Korea.

INTELLIGENT PEOPLE

The Koreans are highly intelligent, highly civilized people, extremely ambitious to compete in the world as a modern nation. It is true that the country is plagued with poverty and unemployment, but vast improvements have been made since the so-called Korean War. In light of all this, you can see how vitally useful your Davidson gift will be to us. At this very moment Dr. Robert Goette, head of our Chemistry Department, is in Japan buying lab equipment with your money. Had your gift not come when it did, we almost certainly would not have graduated majors in Chemistry this year.