RUSK’S VISIT CHALLENGES CAMPUS (See Page Two) VOL. L

Christianity and Communism Today is

BY DON SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Book-Of-The-Year Deals With Communist Menace

Book-of-the-Year for 1962. John C. Bennett, professor of Christian theology and ethics and dean of the faculty at Union Theological Seminary in New York City, will present his book during a two-day visit to campus on March 26-27. Bennett's book attempts to present the Christian approach to the Communist idea-system. It sees the basic conflict as lying in the field of social organization rather than in opposing military complexes. Bennett analyses the threat of atheistic absolutism in light of threats of nuclear extinction. The Christian Century saw in Bennett’s approach “refreshing sanity and vigor.”

College Will Require $100 Tuition Deposit

Davidson students planning to enroll in the college for the 1962-63 term will have to pay a non-refundable $100 deposit on tuition by March 15, according to a new administrative policy announced to THE DAVIDSONIAN today. President D. Grier Martin related the policy change to the problem of adequately estimating student body enrollment. “We are committed to enroll 1,000 students, and we are trying to serve that maximum number. This is the best way we know how to do it,” he explained.

COMBINATION FEE

The $100 due next month combines the $25 room deposit formerly required in the early spring and the $75 tuition deposit which is due in July and which the college began last year. Incoming freshmen have been required for two years to submit a $100 tuition deposit upon notification of their acceptance. Letters announcing the new policy were being sent to parents this week by M. W. McGill, college bursar. Notices will be distributed soon in all dormitories and invoices will be mailed to students on or around March 1. Students planning to return next year will be responsible for meeting the March 15 deadline. If a student does not pay the $100, the college will assume he does not plan to return to Davidson. If at a later date, the individual does decide to return, he will have to apply through the Admissions Committee. The decision on his re-entry will depend on the availability of spaces in the next year’s student body.

SPECIAL REFUNDS

If a student has paid the deposit, but circumstances beyond his control prevent his registering the next September, he may apply for a refund. Refunds will not be made, however, for voluntary drop-outs or transfers. Rising pressure to meet the 1,000 student enrollment precipitated the action. With the more definite estimate of returning students which the $100 deposit will afford, the Admissions Committee will have a clearer idea of the number of freshmen and transfers to accept.

MORE TRANSFERS

“The emphasis will come in accepting more transfers, rather than greatly increasing the number of freshmen admitted,” explained H. Edmunds White, director of admissions. “We anticipate a freshman class very much the same general size as this year’s.” The present student body enrollment is around 955 students. It was four years ago that the trustees of the college voted to increase the size of the student body from 800 to 1,000. To accommodate the increase, Richardson Dormitory was constructed. President Martin this week announced the addition of even five more finished rooms to that building. Dr. Martin explained that the $100 deposit is a measure being used by many colleges today for gauging enrollment. “Here at Davidson, the only real change is one of timing,” he commented.

IFC Recommends Remedy;

RHODES SCHOLAR

Bennett is well-known in the field of church and state relations. A graduate of Williams College and a Rhodes scholar, Bennett also studied at Union Seminary in New York. He has written Christian Ethics and Social Policy, The Christian as Citizen, and Christians and the State. He is editor of the magazine Christianity and Crisis. Christianity and Communism Today is published by Haddam House of The Association Press in New York, a YMCA-operated publishing firm. The book is a revision of Bennett's Christianity and Communism, first published in 1947. The YMCA at Davidson hopes to get a reduction on the $3.50 price when offering the book to students. Bennett has said in his book, “The American Christian should be especially watchful when hysterical fear of Communism on the part of economic conservatives and the zeal of military branches of his own government seek to prepare the minds of the American people for a military showdown.”

IMPORTANT ISSUE

Program chairman Lowry Reid commented on the selection of Bennett’s book. “The Book-of-the-Year Committee feels that this book deals with one of the most important issues facing Americans today. The Y hopes a program built around this book will tie in with previous speakers and forums on Communism, while giving a different approach to the problem.” Bennett had been offered three different spring speaking dates. The committee received confirmation of the March dates Thursday. Reid said, “Several students have expressed interest in helping with the various details involved in the Book-of-the-Year. We will be calling on them for help soon.”

Have Advisor Review Skit

BY CHARLES DIBBLE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“The Greek Week projects were exceptional and were a merit to the fraternity system and Davidson College as a whole,” was the opinion expressed by IFC President Bob Waugh. “They created a lot of goodwill in Mooresville in particular.” Waugh, when interviewed by THE DAVIDSONIAN prior to the IFC’s Monday night meeting, again expressed his disappointment in Skit Night: “I was disappointed with the subject matter of some of the skits and with what appeared to be the skimpy amount of time put in by some fraternities.” When asked for an overall estimate of Greek Week, Waugh replied that the individual fraternities would be better qualified to express an opinion. At the meeting following the interview, two proposals concerning Skit Night were laid before the group. One was that the event be scheduled earlier in the year and not in conjunction with Greek Week; the other was that all skits be reviewed by the fraternities’ faculty advisors. Discussion followed, and a unanimous recommendation to next year’s IFC resulted: “Before a skit may be presented to a public audience, it must be reviewed by the fraternity’s faculty advisor or some other member of the faculty, who will sponsor its production.” The group also gave as a statement of policy: “The IFC in entirety is opposed to the subject matter of some of last week’s skits. In the future, such lack of good taste will constitute a violation of Greek Week rules and regulations.”

Mathematician Is Visiting Lecturer

Professor R. Creighton Buck of the University of Wisconsin will be on campus Feb. 11-13 as a lecturer under the Program of Visiting Lecturers of the Mathematical Association of America. Professor Buck received his PhD in mathematics from Harvard in 1947. Before going to Wisconsin he served on the faculty of Brown University and as a Guggenheim Fellow, he served as a guest professor at Stanford University. Prof. Buck will deliver a lecture in “Linear Spaces and the Calculus” on Monday at 8:20 a.m. in 227 Chambers. At 4:45 in Room 114, Dana Science Building, he will talk on “Applying Mathematics.” One hour prior to this lecture, there will be a coffee at the Faculty Club in Jackson Court for students and faculty to meet Professor Buck. The following day at 11:00 a.m., he will deliver another lecture in 114 Dana, on “Research in Mathematics.” The talks Mon. afternoon and Tues. morning are designed for general audiences with little mathematical background. Professor Buck will be available for conferences with individuals or small groups of students and faculty. Anyone interested should contact a member of the Mathematics Department.

Music for Spring Frolics received much discussion. A large number of groups were mentioned, but no final action has been taken. Representatives clashed over the type of musicians that should be contracted. Passed by an eight-to-two vote was a motion that a rock ‘n roll attraction be hired for Friday night and that one change-of-pace concert be presented the following afternoon. Also brought up during the evening was the ATO Field Day tentatively scheduled for March 10. David Page stated that the contest is intended to promote friendship between Queens and Davidson; proceeds will go to (Continued on page four)

L. Mendel Rivers Speaks In Chapel

Congressman L. Mendel Rivers, Democrat from South Carolina’s First District, will visit the campus and speak in student assembly next Monday. His topic will be “The Importance of Conservatism in America Today.” Rivers has been a U. S. Congressman since 1940. Before that time, he served in the South Carolina legislature and was a special lawyer for the Justice Department. At present, he is serving on the Armed Services Committee and the Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee. Following his assembly talk, there will be a coffee hour in the College Union. He will lunch at the KA house.

BY BOB REYNOLDS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The poll on the student opinion of integration conducted jointly by the Student Council and THE DAVIDSONIAN has revealed that 53% of the responding students favor integration at Davidson College. Of the 565 votes cast, 298 supported and 264 opposed the statement, “I favor the admission of qualified students of any race or nationality to Davidson College.” Three were undecided. “I'm not surprised at the results,” President D. Grier Martin commented. “I had felt there would be a majority favoring the proposal.” In analyzing the result, George Trask, president of

Debaters Journey To FSU

While Davidson College is at the height of the Feb. 16-17 Midwinters’ festivities, four members of the debate team will be at Florida State University’s 13th annual Invitational Debate Tournament. Representing Davidson in the competition, which includes such schools as Miami University, Georgia Tech, University of Florida, Auburn, Tulane, L. S. U., and Mississippi State University, will be the team of Tom Poston, Bob Llewellyn, Harry Daniel, and Bill Brown. This year Davidson will enter only the senior division but Dr. Joe Drake, team coach, says he is expecting the boys to do a good job and certainly to improve last year’s 50-50 record. In addition to the six rounds of debating Coach Drake plans to enter Harry Daniel in the oration competition and Tom Poston in the area of after-dinner speaking. To add a little variety to the proceedings, the last two rounds will depart from the usual rules of debate. Each participant will be allowed the freedom of cross-examination in a courtroom-type procedure. Having worked together for the first time at the Appalachian State meet, there compiling a 6-4 record, the team will be seeking a perfect slate in Florida. Upon returning from the deep South,The Davidson College Debaters will have four meets remaining on their schedule.

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1962

MAJORITY SAYS YES TO TRUSTEES

The Student Council commented, “I attribute the fact that more did not answer the poll to a lack of opinion on the part of many of the students, which is to me a little disappointing, especially on an issue of such gravity.”

In a breakdown by classes, 63 percent of the freshmen, 60 percent of the sophomores, 55 percent of the juniors, and 56 percent of the seniors made their choice during the first four periods Monday and Tuesday of this week. The method of balloting used was that currently employed in elections with each student having his name checked off when he votes. Two years ago a similar poll produced a result that was dubious due to the poor method of distribution, the possibility of ballot box stuffing, the vagueness of the wording, and the many alternate choices of the poll itself.

Trask stated earlier, “Recently the faculty resolved that no qualified student should be denied admission because of race or nationality. We feel that now is the opportune moment to express student opinion. Thus our purpose will be two-fold, first to indicate any change in student opinion as nearly as possible, but primarily to express student opinion to the Board of Trustees concerning the admission of Negroes to Davidson.”

The Trustees will hear the results of both the faculty and student polls at their annual spring meeting Feb. 21. In the earlier poll, 46 percent of the 647 who replied believed “that Davidson should not in any way consider the matter of admission of Negroes.” Only 19 percent proposed integration “at the earliest possible date,” but 47 percent felt that the way for integration should be clear, either in the present or future.

“The change,” said Trask, “is not as great as I expected. The percentage of those in favor of segregation has remained constant, indicating hardly any change of sentiment. This poll, however, is totally accurate and we have taken every precaution to make it impartial, by expressing no opinions beforehand and by conducting no campaign of any sort to influence the result.”

Several students wrote comments on the ballots themselves. One student favored integration, “but not of any student just to say Davidson is integrated.” Another also favored integration, “although I feel such applicants should be screened more carefully than white applicants just to avoid any unfortunate incidents in the early stages of a program of this type.”

In 1959, the trustees voted it was not “in the best interests of Davidson College” to integrate at that time. Last year the racial barrier was lowered to allow Congolese students to enroll.

Faculty Refuses To Revise Off-Campus Drinking Rule
BY SAM FORT

PETER S. NEY IV, Davidson's most recently acquired “living endowment,” found new freedom this week when he took up residence in the extra-large cage which will serve as his permanent home. His boastful growl is brought on by the twelve-game winning streak of his favorite basketball team. (Staff Photo by Charles Raynal)

Wildcat Home At Last; Cage Is No-Man’s Land
BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Come Sunday afternoon you’re apt to see an unusual number of cars on the drive behind the Union. Focus of the new interest is Peter Stuart Ney IV, “home” at last in his new cage. The $450 structure was designed by Clif Loudermilk, Charley Safley, and Grover C. Meetze, director of the Physical Plant. Add to this the initial cost of the ‘cat, the trailer, a showcase planned by Alpha Phi Omega, and food and medicine and Ney amounts to nearly a thousand dollar investment.

Joe Martin, generalissimo of Davidson’s cheerleaders, gave these figures as reason enough to treat the ‘cat with some respect, to say nothing of his status as official mascot. But students are still annoying the ‘cat, warily, in his new, and more accessible habitat. Martin suggested one partial remedy for this teasing—have anyone who puts extraneous matter into the cage go in and get it back.

Except for the abuses of unpatriotic collegians, how is Ney, whom Martin calls “Kitty” (“He doesn't respond to name-calling”), adjusting to his new environs? "He’s got more room to back off, so he feels a little safer,” said Martin. But the tempering effect of Davidson’s easy living has not yet had its effect on her newest son. The dogs have been having their troubles Martin said. They usually visit once, but no more. Within eighteen inches of the cage is still no man’s land. No one else has had serious run-ins with Kitty, except the colored workmen who built the cage. They lived in terror of the new occupant moving in early.

But if dogs or humans get too bad, Ney has a big concrete floor to stalk about on, and the luxury of a pool (with controls outside the cage) and tree complete with penthouse for the local monsoons. There is also for his convenience a sandbox, the significance of which has not yet occurred to him.

This plush pad does present some problems, however. It was purposely placed on a well-traveled route, and will soon be graced with guard rail and spotlights covering the surrounding area. But Martin pointed to the possibility of ‘catnapping or Citadel’s spray-cans and trusted to Providence, the Davidson Security Force, and Peter Ney.

On the brighter side, Martin envisioned the new pen as a trophy case for “borrowed” paraphernalia to be added to the basketball belonging, formerly, to the Purple Paladins. Martin issued the call for trophies that students had in their room: “If you don’t think that they are safe, bring them down and we'll put them in the vault.”

In less than a week, then, Ney and his new home were the subject of planning, circuitous routes on the part of the janitors, and just plain looking. As yet unadorned by signs proclaiming Davidson athletic schedules and unprotected by iron curtain security, Peter Stuart Ney IV stared back at a pretty coed visitor, endured her sugary “Hello, Kitty,” and growled indulgently from the safety of his new domain.

Davidsonian News Editor

At its Tuesday meeting the faculty at large defeated a motion proposing that cases of drinking at off-campus events be handled according to the “ungentlemanly-conduct clause.” The motion came from within the faculty in response to a written request from the Student Council, dated Dec. 8, 1961, that such a motion be adopted.

DIVIDED OPINION

No action was immediately taken because of a divided opinion within the Executive Committee. Unable to agree on the proposal, the committee waited and presented the matter before the full faculty. Prior to the meeting Tuesday, copies of the Student Council letter were circulated among the faculty members for their inspection and consideration. The meeting was a long one, being devoted mostly to this problem. According to President D. Grier Martin, it was “a question on which there is disagreement in the faculty.” The motion was debated and discussed at length before its defeat.

RULE AS NOW STATED

The existing drinking rule is stated, “Davidson College is opposed as a matter of principle to the use of alcoholic beverages by students. A student will ordinarily be suspended if he is found guilty of drinking, possessing or being under the influence of an alcoholic beverage while within the town limits of Davidson or while attending any off-campus event sponsored entirely or in part by Davidson College.”

Referring to action taken by the Executive Committee recently against eight students involved in an off-campus event drinking incident, the Student Council letter protested “both the severity of the punishment levied against the students and the limits of the regulation itself.” Their proposal that cases be tried under the “ungentlemanly-conduct clause” would mean that no action would be taken against the possession or drinking of alcohol per se at off-campus events. Rather, cases would be tried with conduct as the only consideration, regardless of whether the person in question was drinking or not.

APPROVES SOCIAL CLUB

The faculty did approve a motion by Prof. Sam Maloney for the formation of a new, non-exclusive social organization. This organization, as described in more detail in last week's DAVIDSONIAN, would offer more social facilities for Independents. The college has secured a house for the organization, and all members would be required to pay a moderate initiation fee and semester dues.

(Continued On Page Four)

Atkins Will Head Elections Board

An upcoming seminar to be held by the National Student Association and the organization of the Elections Board were the main items discussed by the Student Council at their meeting Wed. night.

Clay Atkins was elected chairman of the Elections Board. Atkins, Newt Burns, and Bob Hord will be responsible for laying the basic groundwork for the elections. The membership of the elections board is made up of one senior representative from each fraternity and four senior independents.

The council decided to send a single delegate to the NSA's Academic Freedom Seminar on Student Involvement in Extra-Campus Affairs, which will be held at Duke University on Feb. 23-25. The seminar will be composed of six sessions of discussions on various topics related to university student participation in affairs outside the campus. The final session will be a general discussion and summation led by Paul Potter, the vice-president of the N.S.A.

Following the regular meeting of the Student Council, President George Trask met with the members of the elections board, which sets up election procedures and dates, and conducts the elections. Members of the committee are Atkins, Burns, Hord, Tom Martin, Dan Calhoun, Skeeter Watson, Doug Purington, Lou Zirgle, Buddy Brauch, and Dave Jordan. Also Bill Godwin, Mike Maddox, Rush Woodside, Harold Fisher, Bob Bradford, and Zeb Vance.