PAGE FOUR

GEORGE PEPPER, the almost human lion, studies his lines for the Vagabonds’ latest play. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Professional Designs For Next Production
BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

When The Vagabonds stage their production of G. B. Shaw’s Androcles and the Lion February 27-March 1, an “angel” of sorts with a Davidson diploma will deserve a generous hunk of the applause. For when it comes to the amount of time and skill invested, few concerned match the record of J. Courtney Hill. Hill designed the 35 to 40 costumes required, then made and fitted them, gratis.

PROFESSIONAL TALENT
And so, for the cost of the material alone, professional talent is placed at the disposal of the Davidson dramatics effort. Hill just recently completed the costumes for “Six Over--board," a revue now playing at Miami Beach. In addition to this, Hill has behind him the experience of the Parsons School of Design in New York and service with the Broadway revue “A to Z" which starred Hermoine Gingold. He also collaborated in the costuming of the off-Broadway hit “Little Mary Sunshine.” And last season, Hill worked with the Charlotte Music Theatre. Among his more famous patrons are Ethel Smith and Gypsy Rose Lee.

WANTED TO HELP
Why did Hill donate his services? Director of Dramatics John Sneden said that he “had nothing lined up and wanted to help out—for the cause of drama.” In his undergraduate days, Hill was an active member of the then-active Red and Black Masquers. Hill's main problem, other than commuting between his home-workshop in Marshville, N. C. and fittings in Davidson, has been the design of costumes at once authentic and in keeping with the satirical spirit of the play.

College Displays Halsey Paintings
A one-man show of paintings by William Halsey, Charleston, S. C. artist, is now on exhibit in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. The show will be on exhibit through Fri., March 2. The exhibition includes twenty-one large canvases including oils, collages, gouaches and watercolors. This marks Halsey's second showing at Davidson, his first being in 1954. Halsey will be in the Center all day Fri., March 2, for informal lectures, demonstrations and discussions. The first talk is scheduled at 11:50 a.m. that day in the Choral-Lecture room in the Dana wing of the Center. Beginning at 1:30 p.m, he will be in the Art lab in the Duke wing. These sessions are presented without charge. Coffee will be served in the afternoon.

THE PLAY
“Androcles” is set in Rome during the reign of an unspecified Caesar. “Charming, funny,” and with the GBS “bite,” the play makes a somewhat less than orthodox appraisal of Christianity and, more particularly, Christians. Megaera, wife of the Aesop-tailor Androcles, is played by Mrs. Louise Hampton, while the leophile himself is Walter Bost. George Pepper plays the almost-human lion. Other leading characters include Caesar, Chip Clark; Ferrovius and Levinia, captive Christians, Walt McNairy and Mrs. Ellen Winkler; and the Roman captain, Jan Papra. Tickets for the Shaw classic, replete with “elaborate and colorful costumes,” are now on sale in the music department offices in the Fine Arts Center. Sneden announced that a special concession has been extended to fraternities. A fraternity which reserves 15 or more places in advance will receive the special rate of 50c. Admission at the box office will be 75c.

Debaters Take 4th At Florida Contest
Bill Brown, Harry Daniel, Bob Llewellyn, and Tom Poston represented Davidson in the 13th annual Florida State Invitational Forensic tournament in Tallahassee, Fla., Feb. 16-17. The Wildcat debaters finished in a tie for fourth place behind McNeese State College, the University of Florida, Miami University and Birmingham Southern. The affirmative and negative teams each scored three wins and three defeats, bringing the team's season record to 41-39. “So far, I certainly am well pleased with the record. Enthusiasm is at a good level and morale is high,” stated team sponsor Dr. Joseph Drake, sociology professor. Drake plans to enter two teams, a novice squad in addition to the varsity, in the South Atlantic Forensics Tournament with Lenoir-Rhyne as host March 8, 9 and 10.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and

After Vespers
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Open Houses
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Burley
Hampton
Polley
Bryan
Kuykendall
Reid
Causey
Lester
Richey
Cole
Lindsey
Sailstad
Frey
MacRae
Thies
Gallent
McGill
Thompson
Goodykoontz
Maloney
White, H. E.
Ghigo
Mebane
Winkler

‘Elijah’ Rusk Enjoys Step Back
(Continued From Page One)
you appreciate coming back,” he remarked, and Mr. Rusk seemed to appreciate especially a few minutes spent at Eumenean Literary Society where he was a member, as was his father in 1891-94. Another fellow, Woodrow Wilson, once belonged here too he reminded newsmen less acquainted with Davidson's other claim to governmental prominence.

SINKING TWO straight 15-foot shots, Mr. Rusk drew the eye of Lefty Driesell at basketball practice in the gym. “A good player never loses the touch,” Lefty said. “We'll suit you up if you have time. We need some beef out there.” Driesell and the team did not appear at all phased by Mr. Rusk’s presence until the request came—"Lefty, can you take a minute to see the Secretary?” Mr. Rusk discussed the game in his day, when a center jump was still required after each shot. Rusk particularly recalled a 17-12 victory over Carolina. Before leaving, he gave in to requests for one more basket, despite a warning from another “star,” Grier Martin, to stop while ahead. He didn't, and the ball spun around the rim without dropping in. He got a new “PD” sweater nevertheless.

Pelouses, who is the frequent “volunteer” partner for tennis, golf or bridge sessions, and an observer at the more formal diplomatic sessions summed it up well. “Let's face it—he’s a sharp guy!”

PAST ROTC Commander Rusk was reminded of the changes that take place in 30 years in campus military training. The current cadet officers gave him a 30-minute briefing on the role of S-1, S-2, etc. The Secretary told the men his ROTC work influenced his life more than any of his other student activities.

KAPPA ALPHA Order had its “finest hour” when its “finest” brother dropped in for lunch. For over an hour, anyone but a KA brother was taboo at the house, with gracious exceptions to an SAE Grier Martin and two lovely ladies, Mrs. Rusk and Mrs. Martin.

Ben Cole Named Union Head
The Union Committee has elected new officers for the present term. Ben Cole is president; Charlie Shapard, vice-president; and John Rankin, secretary. Committee chairmen appointments will be made within a few weeks. After a very active year, the new board has already embarked upon plans for its new program. On March 22, Rush Wilson will hold a fashion show entitled “The Esquire Show” in the Morrison Room of the Union, where men’s fashions will be displayed in a show at 8 and 9 p.m. There is scheduled for two weekends in April an “Experimental Film Festival,” which will be one of the first of its type held on this campus. Specific proposals are still in the planning stage, but the Union will hold a chapel program soon to announce its plans. Tentatively planned for the semester are such events as a chess tournament with Woman's College, a faculty-student barbecue, a sports car show, and a number of parties for the student body.

Davidson Invites Finalists For Scholarship WeekendSPAGHETTI

Security agents had nothing but praise for the Secretary, though they admitted trouble at keeping the pace he sets. Agent Gus

"WHAT DID you do for dates," one reporter asked. "I guess you had to go to Queens."

"What do you mean, had to go?" Mr. Rusk quickly retorted. Meanwhile, Mrs. Rusk was being asked if she had ever seen Queens.

A PROCESSION of townspeople, including Mr. Rusk's former professors Ernest Beaty, Louis Schenck, and George Watts, turned out at the Guest House Thursday afternoon for another session of "Do you remember?" Earlier during his formal press conference, he had given generous credit to former Davidson professor, Archibald Currie, for first starting him on the road to a career in international affairs. He termed his political science mentor "an inspiring teacher and distinguished member of the faculty." Later in the afternoon, he took out 15 minutes to visit Currie's widow who still lives in Davidson.

Approximately 40 of the 48 scholarship finalists for 1962 will begin arriving on campus the nights of Feb. 28 and March 1 for a two-day visit. H. Edmunds White, associate director of admissions, noted that the college has a dual purpose in inviting the finalists to visit the school. "This weekend will give the finalists a chance to see Davidson and at the same time the scholarship committee will have a chance to interview these boys and make some evaluations of them."

COME IN TWO SHIFTS

The first of two groups of the finalists will begin their "weekend" at Davidson College next Wednesday night with a coffee and introductory session with the scholarship committee and the student hosts for the finalists. The second group, composed mostly of students from outside the Carolinas-Virginia area, will arrive Thursday night and will follow a schedule identical with that of the first group. Thursday and Friday afternoons, the college will sponsor coffee hours which are specifically designed to allow the faculty to meet the finalists. White, emphasizing the importance of these coffee hours, commented, "We are most anxious for the faculty members to attend the coffee hours in order to meet these boys, and in order to allow the boys themselves a chance to get to know the faculty."

COMMITTEE INTERVIEW

Each finalist will also have an interview with the scholarship committee to permit the committee to acquaint with each boy personally. White said it is expected that all, or almost all, of the finalists will receive scholarships of some kind, the amount of the stipend depending on the student's need for financial assistance. Of the 48 finalists invited to visit the campus next week, 13, or roughly 25%, are from North Carolina. Six other southern states are represented by 25 finalists, while 10 of the boys are from northern states.

Congratulations To Wildcat Basketball Teams From Planning Consultants, Inc. (Formerly the O'HAIR AGENCY)
W. Delbert Turner '27
V. Reitzel Snieder '57
Dick O'Hair '44
Vernon Anderson '59
H. Perrin Anderson '56
Charles E. Black

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1962

DR. JOHN BEVAN is shown above having lunch with Dr. and Mrs. Tom Scott and Dr. George Staples in the Union. Bevans, a former Davidson professor, is now dean of the faculty at Florida Presbyterian College. He was on campus visiting old friends. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

World News Emanates From Campus Facilities
BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The days were slipping by towards the much-publicized and long-awaited visit of Dean Rusk. In the public relations office, Taylor Blackwell and his assistants were checking and rechecking the numerous details which together would make this visit congenial to Secretary Rusk, the college, and the visiting news media representatives. Blackwell remarked, "An important angle of this visit is the publicity it will bring the college. For this reason, we want to make sure we satisfy all the needs of newsmen, plus a little extra." The public relations men were obviously going to do everything possible to create what a newsman hopes for in an assignment of this nature: a red carpet and a free hand.

When the scores of newspapermen, from state papers and national wire services, and the radio and TV reporters arrived, they found abundant printed matter to familiarize them with some of the background of Rusk and his visit. Included were mimeographed biographies of Rusk and his family, schedules of events, and explanations of the Reynolds Lecture Series, of which the visit was a part. In Chambers, three second-floor rooms were transformed into press facilities, with classes ordinarily meeting there moved elsewhere for the day. Room 218 became the telephone room, from which stories were phoned back to main offices. Room 201 was headquarters for the secretaries and stenographers working on transcripts of Rusk's on-the-record talks during the day. Finally, Room 203 became the Printer's Ink Inn, with typewriters and other writing materials, plus coffee and sandwiches, for the laboring press.

After a forty-minute press conference in the Fine Building, Rusk gained a brief respite from the eager newsmen as he lunched at the Kappa Alpha fraternity house. McCloskey is the man who lays almost all of the groundwork and ground rules for meetings between his boss and the press. He has more or less of an iron hand over things. For example, he okayed an interview with Mrs. Rusk, but decided against a request to accompany the Secretary to the KA luncheon for material for a feature story. During this, the newsmen had to be content with a buffet luncheon, attended also by Rusk's staff, at the Union (banquet hall, not cafeteria). Said Blackwell, "We've been in constant touch with the newspapers and so forth since December on developments of this visit. We've also worked very closely with Bob McCloskey, Rusk's press secretary, arranging with him many of the details we weren't too sure about. After all, a thing like this has no precedent here at Davidson."

Was all this preparation very costly to Davidson College? "Not especially," grinned Blackwell. "Just telephones and food."

An invitation to shape your own future...

General Telephone has tripled its size in the last 10 years — expects to double its size again in the next decade. With expansion such as this, there is an ever-increasing need for larger and more competent management teams. In all of its activities — from research and manufacture to the provision of modern communications services in 31 states — General Telephone charts its own course.

To help you grow with the company, the General Telephone System provides planned training programs, and encourages and aids an individual in self-development. You are given every opportunity to chart your own course in accordance with your interests and attributes. Your Placement Director will be pleased to provide you with a copy of our brochure on Management Careers at General Telephone.

GENERAL TELEPHONE
America's Largest Independent Telephone System

On-Campus Interviews: A representative of the General Telephone Company of So. East will be on campus the week beginning March 2. Ask your Placement Director to arrange an interview.