(1962 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Michie Slaughter (top) and Eddie Crutchfield. Presbyterian Game Co-Captains

The co-captains of tomorrow night’s game will be Eddie Crutchfield, a tackle, and Michie Slaughter, a defensive end. Slaughter, a
senior psychology major, is from Roxboro, N.C. Crutchfield, a senior business major, is from Albemarle, N.C.

HIGHLIGHTS and SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

BACK IN ‘26... Time was when P.C.-Davidson games were as much agitated turmoil as athletic trial. In fact, back in
'26 Presbyterian officials agreed with their Davidson brethren that the annual football game was predestined to trouble. And it didn’t
take a John Calvin. Prophets in the administrative office realized the game would have to be played on neutral ground.
In characteristic (chronic) cautiousness, the pacifist Presbyterians chose what was really neutral territory: Winthrop College in Rock Hill, South Carolina.

Rock Hill was a good gridiron community. Only the year before, their high school football team had massed a powerhouse
that walloped, among others, the UNC freshmen, 31-0. And the local citizenry turned out a good crowd, along with 1,800
Winthrop girls clad in blue uniforms, and ample P.C. and Davidson contingents. (Dr. Puckett claims attendance.) Officials lined off the
hockey field, roped the sidelines, and the game began. But somebody had failed to read the terms of the peace
treaty. Neutrality was forgotten and pacifism was soon disregarded.

Dick Grey, one of the best ballplayers who ever played for the Wildcats, put a drop kick between the crossbars
early in the game to put Davidson out in front, 3-0. As the game progressed, neither team seemed to be
able to score again and feeling was running high. Penalties by the referees were hotly contested. Finally, about midway in
the game, one of the P.C. tackles, an all-round bruiser, protested an official's call by silencing the official with a
smashing blow, and then lowered the boom on his opponent. It took the local National Guard unit, at the game
in full color in case of trouble, to separate the two teams. When the dust had lifted, however, Grey’s field
goal proved to be the deciding factor, and the ’Cats took a 3-0 victory.

It took Davidson and P.C. twenty-three years to recover from the repercussions of the riot that followed. Recent years have
been more peaceful, but not without color. It hasn’t been too long ago since freshman Charlie Sasser chased a P.C.
beanie-thief across Richardson Field and dumped him from behind on the cinder track.

Tomorrow is homecoming for P.C. It is also a big game for the Cats. Who knows, maybe some more color.

JOHN SPRATT

THE CRYSTAL BALL STRIKES AGAIN

It looks like buying that old crystal ball last week paid off even though we did miss pretty far on
the Richmond-VPI game. With last week’s prediction record, which was 5-1, our overall results are now 5-3 which is a
far cry from the 0-2 record we had week before last.

It’s hard to tell who the Presbyterian God pre-ordains to win in a clash of two Presbyterian schools, but in
this case we feel that the Wildcats have got too much for little P.C. The Blue Hose will go the
way of Wofford. Prediction: Davidson 20, P.C. 14.

The Furman-Richmond game will be a close one, and both teams possess the winning potential. Furman should come out on
top, however. Prediction: Furman 14, George Washington 7.

The Citadel was able to come out on the long end of a 10-8 score against William & Mary last
fall. This year William & Mary, with a potentially stronger team, will be shooting for revenge. Prediction: William & Mary
28, The Citadel 16.

VPI faces a much stronger Virginia team than the one that it spilled to a 20-0 loss last year. They
have a chance of pulling the Cavaliers down this season but we don't think that it is likely to happen.
Prediction: U. of Virginia 20, VPI 6.

Boston College has a strong team this year. They should overcome a tough little VMI team. Prediction: Boston College 27,
VMI 14.

West Virginia should down Boston University in moving their first season in many years. Prediction: West Virginia 14, Boston University
0.

P.C. Seeks First Win In Homecoming Tilt

Tomorrow night in Clinton, S.C., Davidson’s Wildcats meet the Blue Hose from Presbyterian College in the twenty-first round of a
rivalry that began over forty years ago. The first Davidson-Presbyterian game was played in 1919 and since that time feelings
have been built up in this series unrivaled by any other with the exception of the Davidson-Wake Forest series which
ended in the thirties. Frequent instances of full-scale brawls involving both fans and players after hard-fought contests between the ‘Cats
and the Blue Hose have been recorded. In fact, at one time the feelings between the two schools became so
intense that the series was dropped for over twenty years, and was only resumed in 1949.

The Wildcats hold an edge in the series although neither team has securely dominated the rivalry. The Wildcats have won
10 of the contests, the Blue Hose 9, and 1 game has ended in a tie. Saturday night's affair with
Presbyterian should be a tough, close game if the past is any indication. Although the Blue Hose haven't won a
game so far this season, “they're looking better all the time,” according to Coach Tom Stevens who scouted them against
The Citadel, a game that the Blue Hose dropped 28-8 last week.

In meeting P.C. the ‘Cats will be running up against an entirely different kind of offense than they faced against
Wofford last week. The Blue Hose run out of a wing T formation, and they make good use of their
hard-hitting squad with trapping and power plays. Ronnie Hampton, a halfback, will be one of the Blue Hose’s running threats
tomorrow. Hampton was the man who went 75 yards against the Cats last year to chalk up Presbyterian's only score
as they lost 21-7.

At quarterback the Blue Hose will be considerably weaker than in years past. Bobby Waters and Bobby Joyner have moved
into pro ball, leaving the position to relatively inexperienced Bill Tyson, who has been out the last couple of games
because of an injury, and sophomore Layton Granton, who has been shouldering the position in Tyson's absence. The defensive interior
line is a strong spot on the Blue Hose squad with Dewey McReynolds, a guard, and Alvin Coley, a linebacker,
offering added toughness.

Injury troubles in the ’Cat lineup could have a definite bearing on the outcome of tomorrow's contest. Eddie Crutchfield, Bob
Cordle, and Alex Gibbs all came out of the Wofford contest with battle scars of some form or another. All
will probably be ready to go against P.C. Bill Bankhead, senior tackle, severely strained his foot in practice Tuesday and
will probably have to sit out the P.C. game.

Coach Bill Dole’s ’Cats will confidently go into the game expecting victory.

Wake Forest Downs Lagging Harriers

Coach Heath Whittle’s Wildcat harriers took on a “relatively easy” Pembroke squad this afternoon at 4:30 in the team’s first
home meet. Whittle said that he was looking for a victory to even up the record after Wednesday afternoon's opening
loss to Wake Forest. The Deacon harriers dropped the ’Cats by a 22-38 score.score. The bright spot in Wednesday's action
was Sterling Martin, who is continuing in his "winning ways" for the third year. Martin took first place in the
meet with a time of 22:45. This time was only 36 seconds off the course record, and he did it
on a muddy track in the rain. "He's in much better shape this year than he was at this time
last year," commented Whittle.

Football rivalry that began ever. Bolstered by last Saturday’s fine victory over the Wofford Terriers, they hope to make the
Blue Hose their third victims of the season. One thing is certain about this game—that P.C. will go all out
to win. According to Dole, "They'd rather beat us than anyone else on their schedule." Coupled with their intense rivalry
with the 'Cats, the fact that tomorrow is their homecoming will bring the Blue Hose out for blood.

Following P.C., the next foes of Dole’s Wildcats will be William & Mary on Oct. 13. This will be the
first game of the season to be played in Richardson Stadium. It will also be the last home game of
the season.

LEAPING HIGH into the air, STEVE DAVIDSON makes a beautiful catch of KENT TUCKER’S pass in the Wofford game. DAVIDSON
ran the ball out of bounds on the one-yard line.

BILL playing conditions, changed the and defensive plays. "Everybody did a wonderful job of adjusting" to the new plays. That
a switch of plans was needed is evidenced by the fact that the ball often stopped dead in six inches
of water.

Bob Meldrum Jim Bulla selected Week by aerial, led to his being as the Wildcat of the Week by the
coaching staff. "Ross did a terrific job backing the line. His defensive play made him the best linebacker we’ve had
in a long time," said Dole. As a freshman, Ross was a guard. He is now listed officially on the
program as a center. Ross has been described by teammates as a hard-nosed aggressive competitor. The 185 lb., 6’ senior
is a fast thinker and a hustler. Ross doesn’t feel that a rookie should be selected as WOW. He modestly
confessed, "I made a lot of mistakes that others covered up for. The whole defense looked good at Wofford."

The Davidson-P.C. game will be broadcast on AM tomorrow night over Station WEGO in Belmont for those who do not
have FM sets.

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, North Carolina.

His outstanding play in the Blue Hose game.

Wildcats Win Second, 15-0; P.C. Blue Hose Next Victims

"Greatest defensive effort ever." This is the way Coach Bill Dole sized up Davidson’s performance in last Saturday's contest with
the Terriers from Wofford. Whether or not it really was the best defensive effort ever coached by Dole at Davidson,
no one will ever know, but the 'Cats were certainly very convincing in their role. Every Wofford offensive drive came
to a "screeching halt," as the determined 'Cats dug in whenever the ball reached Davidson territory. Particularly outstanding in the
defensive performance put on by the 'Cats was Tom Ross, a senior linebacker, who was "making tackles all over the
field."

Davidson's offense, which got off to a shaky start in the first half, finally came to life late in the
period when Bob Cordle intercepted a Wofford pass and ran it back 52 yards to the Terrier 28. A pass
from Kent Tucker to Steve Davidson put it on the one-yard line, and two plays later Bill Dole, Jr. booted
a field goal as time ran out. Early in the fourth quarter, the 'Cats were finally able to send Pat
Fisher over from the five to climax a 71-yard scoring drive. Joe Jones accounted for the other 'Cat tally late
in the quarter when he drove over from the one.

The Davidson soccer team journeys to Chapel Hill this Tuesday for a match with the booters of the University of
North Carolina. Soccer coach Harry Fogleman rates U.N.C. as "one of the top teams in the South, along with Pfeiffer
and Duke." Fogleman said he knew nothing of this year’s UNC team, but added, "We don't know what to expect."

The 'Cats started off the week on Thursday with a 3-1 win over the N.C. State team in what Fogleman
described as a "mud contest." The game was played during a fierce rainstorm, and the field was covered with six
inches of water in spots. Fred Schoen proved to be the hero of the day by booting all three of
the 'Cat's goals. Both teams agreed to cut the 22-minute playing quarters down to 16 minutes in order to get
it over with as soon as possible.

STARTING LINEUP
Charlie Sasser (Captain)
Mike Nemir
Jan Brakel
Walt Eckman
Gonter forward Fred Schoen
Halfbacks Don McQueen
Dave Olin
Fullbacks Glen Hanes
Tarby Bryant

Davidson's freshman football team, 34 strong, will journey to Union, South Carolina, on Thursday to open their season against The
Citadel's Bullpups. Game time is 8 p.m. The Citadel team, by virtue of its close 6-3 loss to perennially powerful
Duke on the Imps’ home field, is tabbed as one of the Southern Conference’s top frosh squads. Captain Donald H.
Threlkeld, freshman football coach, will field a team that he calls "pretty strong on defense, but questionable on offense." Dick
Short, a 170 lb. linebacker, is the standout of the unit. "With Tom Ogburn, Woody Hill, and Philip Wells at
guard, this is our strongest position," states Capt. Threlkeld. All three weigh in at 200 lbs. or more. The Wildkitten
backfield will be piloted by quarterbacks Sid Kit and John Little. Kit furnishes power with his 200-pound frame. Threlkeld states,
"We would welcome out any freshman who lettered at end in high school. We're really hurting there."

After The Citadel, the Wildkittens will play three more games. They host Furman on Oct. 20, visit Ferrum Jr. College
on Nov. 3, and Gardener-Webb Jr. on Nov. 10.

LOOKING FULLY AS MEAN as he must have to the Wofford backfield, TOM ROSS, this week's W.O.W., gets set for
tomorrow’s game.

$49.95 The Oxford By After-Six
$69.95 RENTALS ALSO
Rusk Wilson Co.
Playboy After-Six Tuxedo
