PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bailey, Lord, Cumming, Horton, Jackson, Johnston, Lammers, Minter, Pierce, Plott

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night: McGeachy, Purcell, Ratliff, Rhodes, Rieke, Schenck, Smith, Threlkeld.

MSM Offers Series On Peaceful Protest

What about non-violent resistance? This is the subject of a series of discussions being sponsored by the Methodist Student Movement, dealing with the effective use of non-violent resistance as a means of achieving certain ends peacefully. The Rev. Russell Montfort, minister of the Methodist Church, stated that various groups and persons in the world today are resorting to non-violent resistance as an alternative to bloody revolutions. He cited Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King as examples. “We also feel that we should consider the use of non-violent resistance as a Christian alternative when law and conscience disagree,” he added.

ANDREWS SPOKE FIRST

The first speaker in the series was David Andrews, chaplain at Appalachian State Teachers College, who recently demonstrated in front of the White House on behalf of Martin Sobell, who is imprisoned in connection with the Rosenberg spy trials. Andrews believes that Sobell is innocent. While praying before the White House, Andrews was arrested for blocking the sidewalk.

NEGROES ON SIT-INS

The second program was presented earlier this evening by two Johnson C. Smith students and dealt with the sit-in movements in connection with integration. The final program of the series will be on Fri., Feb. 23, following supper at the Methodist Church. The speaker will be Boyd Payton, a leader in the North Carolina labor movement who was involved in the Henderson Mill strike of 1958. He was subsequently arrested and has just recently been released from prison.

NETHERLANDS CHAMBER CHOIR

A Cappella Choir Sings Next Friday

The Artist Series will present the Netherlands Chamber Choir under the direction of Felix De Nobel on Friday, Feb. 16 at 8:15 p.m. The choir will perform in Chambers auditorium. The choir began by performing for radio broadcasts in 1937, but within a short time they were making concert appearances in Holland, and soon after in all the leading cities of Europe, having recently played at festivals in Edinburgh, Bordeaux, and Vienna. A cappella singing occupies first place in the choir's activities, but it also performs with orchestral, organ, or piano accompaniment, with music ranging from Palestrina to Stravinsky. For their appearance here, the choir will present works from many historical periods and national traditions spanning five centuries of music, with works by such notable composers as Bull, Dresden, Mozart, and Bruckner. Dr. Plott, director of the Male Chorus, commented that “the Netherlands Chamber Choir is one of the finest choruses of its type in the world.” “They all have mature voices,” he said, “and give a mellow sound not found in a group of younger singers.”

Cold Temperatures Prompt Excursions To Ski Resorts

BY WILLIAM WALKER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

For about the past month, Davidson students have been taking advantage of the cold weather to draw on the resources of one of North Carolina’s ski resorts. Dr. T. F. Clark of the Bible Department, who led skiing excursions over the Christmas holidays and the semester break, described the expenses and facilities of the Green Briar ski resort at Hot Springs. “The resort at Hot Springs is operated by the Homestead Hotel,” said Clark, “whose cheapest rooms rent for $35.00 a day. Consequently, most students who go there prefer to stay at the nearby Cascades Inn Motor Lodge, where you can room for $10.00 a day with breakfast, supper, and skiing privileges included.” Clark added that skiing privileges at the resort cost about $4.00 a day for those not staying at the motor lodge or hotel, and that renting skis, boots, and ski poles came to nearly another $8.00. Commenting on the resort's facilities, Clark said, “Hot Springs has four ski routes; a beginner’s slope and a higher slope.” High prices and the six-hour drive from Davidson west to Hot Springs have evidently failed to discourage ardent skiers. Five enterprising Phi Delts even managed to find an inn that would let them cram into one room and split the cost. A number of Sigma Chi’s, with superb academic confidence, left the campus for Hot Springs on Monday and weren’t expected back till Thursday, and a third group is planning a pilgrimage to a resort at Waynesville. There has even been rumor of a movement to organize College Union sponsored trips to resorts, and Mr. S. Shaw Smith has shown an interest in the idea. What effect this will have on student group insurance policies and academic standing will remain to be seen.

Seven Will Attend Philosophy Meet

Alfred North Whitehead, noted British philosopher, will be the topic of discussion at the sixth annual Southern Philosophy Students convention, Feb. 17-18 at the University of Chattanooga. Representing Davidson at this conference will be Price Caldwell, Dave Dillard, Bill Ferris, Tom Harris, Roger Laney, Frank Mansell, and Dr. Earle MacCormac. Other participating schools are Agnes Scott, Emory, and Sewanee. Davidson hosted the conference in 1959. In preparation for the conference, weekly study groups are being held Sunday nights after vespers at MacCormac's house. Here students are discussing Whitehead’s Process and Reality and Science and the Modern World which they have previously read. Whitehead, according to MacCormac, is “probably the most important philosopher of our century.” He is considered a “process philosopher” who emphasizes “things becoming” instead of “things being.”

Discussion Groups

The YMCA announced this week the formation of two study and discussion groups, which will hold their first meetings next week. One group, led by Dr. J. O. Embry, will discuss Existentialism, using as background material No Exit and 3 Other Plays by Sartre and The Existential Posture by Shinn. This group will hold its first meeting on Wed., Feb. 14, at 4:30 p.m. A second group, led by Val Frakes, assistant to the chaplain, will discuss Reinhold Niebuhr’s classic on the foundations of democracy, The Children of Light and the Children of Darkness. The first meeting of this group will be on Thurs., Feb. 15, at 4:30 p.m. Students interested in participating in either of these groups should sign up at the YMCA office immediately. Copies of the books to be used are available in the Knovel Knook in Charlotte.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1962

Vagabonds Will Stage G. B. Shaw Classic

Following the “overwhelming response” to “Antigone,” the Vagabonds will perform George Bernard Shaw's three-act play “Androcles and the Lion” in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. There will be three performances, each beginning at 8:15 p.m., on Tuesday through Thursday nights, Feb. 27, 28, and Mar. 1. Professor John Sneden, director of the Vagabonds, used the words “overwhelming response” in his pleasure and surprise at the number of people that came to witness the performances of “Antigone.” Sneden commented that at least two-thirds of the spectators were from outside Davidson. “Their desire to see the new fine arts building might have had something to do with their coming,” he surmised, “but we hope as many turn out for ‘Androcles.’” In his efforts to obtain more viewers, Sneden will maintain a policy of the past that is perhaps not too well known. Tickets for any group on or off campus that contain fifteen or more members will be only 50 cents each. Tickets at the door will continue to be 75 cents, as usual. Sneden said that all but two female characters of his cast have been obtained. Despite announcements that there would be “a cast of thousands,” Sneden confessed that in the end the thousands have become only 27. “But I could not get any more, anyway, on that little stage,” he said. Mrs. Louise Hampton, wife of Capt. David Hampton, will take the role of Megaera, Androcles’ wife. Androcles will be played by Walter Bost.

Sneden Seeks Plays To Present At Festival

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

He didn’t look like a professor standing there in the Vagabonds’ workshop in paint-stained clothes. But John Sneden is a professor of dramatics and dramatic literature. He is also director of the Vagabonds. And that is fitting, for he eats, sleeps, lives, and even speaks drama for 24 hours a day. Even though he is wrapped up right now with making props and rehearsing the Vagabonds' next play, “Androcles and the Lion,” Sneden is still looking...a-head to what is to follow this semester. Most of his time after this month will be taken up with preparing one-act plays for competition in the Carolina Dramatic Association’s district festival to be held in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center here, March 24. Sneden is the vice-president of the association this year. Sneden is giving careful consideration to the task of picking representative plays. By his own admission, good one-act plays are hard to find. Sneden is quite happy that Davidson has been selected as the site of the district competition. “It is a lot of work for me to administrate the various groups who come,” he said. “But I hope to get the district festival back here next year.”

This will be a special year for the Carolina Dramatic Association, Sneden explained as he stood by the figure of the lion’s mask that will be used in his next play. “We are having our fortieth anniversary celebration in Chapel Hill, April 11-14. But that fact will make the competition stiffer this year than it was last. Since they will have a dance, a banquet, and a good many speakers this year, only 12 of the best plays in the state will be chosen to be presented at Chapel Hill. Since only 12 can go from the whole state, we will probably only get to send one, if we send any, this year.”

Davidson sent three plays to Chapel Hill last year, with “The Second Shepherd's Play” winning the highest rating possible, “distinguished.” The other two won “excellent” ratings. All plays given in the district competition will be judged as distinguished, superior, or credible. Only distinguished plays get to go to Chapel Hill. Each district competition will have a judge from the University of North Carolina viewing the plays. Sneden explained that the judges would select the 12 plays from the best that they had seen.

When asked if he planned any other dramatic activity, Sneden commented that he would like to do Ionesco’s “The Bald Soprano.” “It only requires three men and three women to stage; so I am hoping there will be enough interest to put it on late in the semester.” He described the long, one-act play as an “anti-play,” comparing it to modern art. “It is to the theater what modern art is to painting.”

The costumes will be made by J. Courtney Hill, an alumnus of Davidson, who makes costumes professionally for off-Broadway shows and reviews. Hill got his first practice by making some costumes for plays here when he was a student. The play is set in Rome at the time of an unspecified Caesar. Shaw took his lion from Aesop, who, in a fable, told about a Greek tailor named Androcles pulling out a thorn from the foot of a lion. Sneden said, “The play is charming, funny, and has a bite to it. You will be surprised at the Christians you can recognize.”

Two Alumni Name College Presidents

Two alumni from the class of 1934 have been named president of institutions of higher learning within the past month. Classmates Dr. John A. Hunter and Dr. Rawling Pratt-Thomas have assumed the top positions at Louisiana State University and the Medical College of South Carolina, respectively. Secretary of State Dean Rusk and President D. Grier Martin, both of whom were students here during the same period, will participate at the LSU inaugural of Dr. Hunter on April 7. Dr. Martin will introduce Rusk, who will deliver the main address.

Before his recent election, Dr. Hunter had also served as registrar, dean of student services, and professor of education at LSU. He received his PhD degree there also. While at Davidson, he was a member of ODK and of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. The executive leadership of the Medical College of South Carolina at Charleston was given to Dr. Pratt-Thomas this past Monday. He also has a long record of service with that institution as student, professor, and director of the department of pathology. He was a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity at Davidson.

Waugh Announces New Dance Line-Up

The much-changed line-up of Midwinters rock ‘n roll artists has been changed again. IFC president Bob Waugh announced this week that Huey “Piano” Smith is in jail for non-payment of debts. He further stated that the IFC has canceled the appearance of The Crests because of unfavorable reports about their quality. For the Friday night dance, the IFC has contracted The Clovers, Buster Brown, and Johnny Jenkins, Otis Redding, and The Pinetoppers. This dance will last from 9 until 1 and will be informal. Saturday afternoon the Highwaymen will present a concert in the Chambers auditorium.

Mrs. J. B. Moore, director of dormitories, announced that Belk and Richardson residents may sign for rooms all day Monday and Monday night from 7 to 8. Non-residents may sign for rooms on Tuesday. Rooms for the dates of guests may be signed for on Thursday. As usual, the dates may move into Belk and Richardson any time after 3 p.m. Friday, and must be out by 2:30 Sunday.

Faculty Refuses

This motion arose out of the investigation of the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life of the need of such an organization.

DORM EXPANDS

At this meeting it was also announced that the college is going to complete five more rooms in Richardson Dormitory and also furnish one fairly large room with a number of double-deck beds. These moves were made in consideration of Davidson’s moving closer next year to her goal of an enrollment of 1000 students. The large single room would be used only while regular rooms were being arranged for the occupants. Its use would be strictly temporary.

Massive voice for a missile base in America's space-age defense system, the order of the day is total, high-speed communications. And at Vandenberg Air Force Base, as elsewhere, General Telephone & Electronics is carrying out the order with efficiency and dispatch. Here the link to the system that mans the mighty Atlas missiles is a fully automatic 5,000-line dial telephone exchange. The “outside voice” that links the base with alert and command posts throughout the world is a multichannel microwave radio relay system capable of handling hundreds of telephone conversations, teletype messages, and early-warning radar data simultaneously. The communications equipment connecting Vandenberg Air Force Base with the outside was designed, manufactured, and installed by our subsidiaries, Automatic Electric and Lenkurt Electric, and is operated for the government by General Telephone of California. This advanced high-speed system is expressive of the General Telephone & Electronics strives to serve the nation through better communications — not only for national defense, but for homes, business, and industry as well.

GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS