“LANDSBERGER CRITICIZES LATIN AMERICAN POLICY (See Page Two) yr Bauidsontan The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College ‘CATS OUT
TO PUT RUN IN THE HOSE (See Page Three) VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1962
NUMBER FOUR

Four Professors Cut Overrid Huey Smith, The Drifters Will Croon At Concert

The Drifters and Huey “Piano” Smith and the Clowns, both rock ’n roll groups, will perform at the IFC’s Saturday
Homecoming Concert. Due to insufficient funds, the IFC was unable to sign the Four Freshmen to a binding contract. Meanwhile,
another agent on the west coast signed the group to a contract.

The IFC has scheduled the concert for Saturday evening, Oct. 13 from 8 to 10 in the Chambers Building Auditorium.
The Homecoming Dance, Friday evening, Oct. 12, originally scheduled for 8 - 11, will now take place from 9-12 to
avoid conflict with the Artist Series. The IFC has scheduled the Tickets for both events for Independents will be on
sale next week in the College Union at the same price charged fraternity members. The contract for the groups will
be signed as soon as the IFC receives it through the mail. Both the Drifters and Huey Smith and the
Clowns have released several recordings. Among those released by the Drifters are “Fools Fall in Love,” “There Goes My Baby,”
and “Save the Last Dance For Me.” Huey “Piano” Smith and the Clowns will be a highlight of the festivities
next weekend. He is scheduled to perform Saturday.

Flu Bug Opens Season

BY JIMMY DOWNEY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Davidson Infirmary staff is preparing. They're stockpiling their pills and fluffing their pillows. The season is opening for a
possible outbreak of influenza cases across the nation. October is a prime time for flu to strike, and the United
States Public Health Service has urged that vaccinations against the flu be taken as a precaution. Dr. James B. Woods,
the college physician, said that although he expected some students to “get the bug,” he did not expect it in
any greater proportion than in previous years. Woods also indicated that the fact he feels that the number of flu
runs in greater numbers in cycles of about every five years. He does not expect it in any greater proportion
than in previous years. In 1957, the infirmary was filled almost to the last bed with students on campus. Since
that time nothing on campus has quite reached such epidemic proportions as the Plague of ‘57. However, Dr. Woods also
indicated that the fact he feels that the number of cases this year will not be greater than last year
when the infirmary was filled almost to the last bed with students on campus.

Holiday Clause, Executive Committee Martin Reemphasizes Student Responsibility

The long-disputed holiday clause is gone. The faculty voted by “a good majority” to abolish all regulations relating to absences
before and after holidays. Martin was quick to emphasize the fact that students may not miss more than 25 percent
of their classes for any reason. He pointed out that the faculty calls on students to not take the decision
as license: “The responsibility now lies with the students.” The faculty decision went one step further than the recommendation presented
by the Executive Committee which met earlier in the day. The Executive Committee, acting upon a Student Council request, favorably
by an almost unanimous vote suggested that triple absences be charged on the two days before and after holidays. The
proposal that passed is the original recommendation of a special committee that was established to study the “cut” system and
to offer proposals. Headed by Dr. J. Ostwalt, the group included about 1 Pres. D. Grier Martin, when interviewed along
with Dean Richard C. Burts by THE DAVIDSONIAN, said, “My action is not final.” He pointed out that the faculty
had no previous example on which to base its judgment. The Executive Committee recommendation was defeated, and the faculty took
up and, after much discussion, passed the proposal.

Frosh Council Meets, Discusses Problems

BY TOM VINSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Freshman Council held its first meeting Wednesday night at 10:15. Shaw Smith, director of the Union, and Dick Bates,
president of last year’s Freshman Council, spoke on the duties of the councilmen. Bates told about the activities of the
Freshman Council last year and about some of the problems it faced. He said that the next meeting, at 10:15
next Wednesday, will be a planning meeting for Freshman Parents’ Day, Oct. 20. The Freshman Council is in charge of
all preparations for Parents’ Day: tours of the various departments, the luncheon, and the assembly Saturday. A date will be
second semester when freshmen, as well as upperclassmen, may submit their compositions for consideration. Each submission must be reviewed by
the members of the fraternity. Prose, poetry, and drama will all be acceptable.

South Korean’s Revolution

The Army has named 36 seniors Distinguished Military Students for this year. The ROTC students listed below were chosen for
having demonstrated the highest qualities of leadership, initiative, academic achievement, and military aptitude. Criteria for choosing the Distinguished Military Students
are MS II grade average, overall grade average, extracurricular activities, and performance at the military summer camp. The following are
D.M.S.'s for 1962-1963: Joe Ansley, Robert Austell, Walter K. Barger, William Backlund, Toby Bethea, Rudolph Bun-.

Hagen Announces Staff Appointments

Three new permanent staff members of THE DAVIDSONIAN have been announced this week. Bill Hagen, editor, has released the names
of Charles Ramberg, Knox Abernethy, and Jim Williams as new appointees. They will fill the positions of assignments editor, associate
editor, and editorial assistant respectively. Ramberg is from Highwood, Ill. and is a pre-law student. A sophomore, he has been
working on the paper.for six months. He replaces Bob Bethel who assumed duties as secretary of the YMCA this year.
A senior from Indianapolis, Ind., Knox Abernethy spent his junior year attending the University of Ghana. He is an English
major and worked with the paper his freshman and sophomore years. Williams is also an English major and is a
member of Sigma Upsilon creative writing fraternity. A senior from Spartanburg, S. C., Williams belongs to Beta Theta Pi social
fraternity. Carrell, and Sam Clark. Clark is Cadet Corps commander this semester. Ben Cole, Ham Cooke, Bob Cordle, Comann Craver,
Richard Eberhart, John Eichelberger, James Fisher, and Lewis Fraser. Others selected were Alex Gibbs, David Herbertson, Ken Kelley, Francis Kemp,
Lawrence Kimbrough, Ronel Lewis, Charles Mitchell, Niel Nichols, and Mike Owen. Other D.M.S.'s are Robert Parker, George Pepper, Bill Plunket,
John Robers, Hamilton Russell, Carl Rust, John Rutherford, Charles Safley, and Harvey White. Gardner, Frank Burns, Danny

On two occasions. Also chosen were Bill ordered a supply Because Dr. Woods expects some students will want to take
the vaccination, he the infirmary in late October. Dr. Woods recalled the infamous outbreak of Asian flu which struck the
Davidson campus in October, 1957. The infirmary was filled with students, and extra beds were brought for ailing students to
fill the basement of Chambers, the basement of the Guest House, and part of the president’s house. As the epidemic
was at its apogee during the Homecoming weekend, 1957, all activities were called off. Even the football game with Presbyterian
College was not played then.

Council Vote Defeats Honor Court Motion

A proposed amendment to the Student Body Constitution delegating more power to the Honor Court was defeated by the Student
Council in its Monday night meeting. Having been tabled at last week's session, the motion was to give the Honor
Court the power to interpret the two articles in the constitution dealing specifically with the Honor System and the Student
Body Regulations. With this power the Court itself would be able to define such terms as “cheating,” “gambling,” and “campus
limits.” Student Body President Danny Carrell voiced firm support for the motion. After several minor disagreements between the Student Council
and the Honor Court, Carrell proposed the idea in his campaign speech last year. “It certainly merits further consideration,” he
said after this week’s meeting. “I hope it will be passed.” In other business the council heard routine reports of
standing committees. Pierce Howard was appointed as the second student representative to the Faculty Committee on Artists Series and Public
Lectures. After the assembly there will be a faculty coffee to give the parents a chance to meet the faculty.

Visa In Red Tape

Obtaining a visa can often be a bit sticky, but rarely does one have to help in the overthrow of
a government in the process. Such was the case, however, with Byoung Young Lee, Korean Richardson scholar at Davidson. In
1960 Lee was a senior at the Korean University, one of the thirty colleges and universities located in Seoul, capital
city of South Korea. He planned to continue his education in the U.S., and a Time magazine article on American
top-notch small colleges introduced Lee to Davidson. But much was to transpire before this young Korean would be pictured in
the Wildcat Handbook. South Koreans had become greatly dissatisfied with the longstanding, corrupt government of Syngman Rhee. Spring “elections” were
rigged, with government policies controlling the polling places.

Guest House Room Acknowledges Gift

Mrs. Marcia Bell Mitchell, who made possible the largest bequest in Davidson's history, now has a memorial. Work was recently
completed on a room to the left of the main entrance of the Guest House. Under the guidance of a
professional interior decorator, the room was furnished, primarily with furniture from the Mitchell homes in Lancaster, Pa. and Wilmington, Del.
Mrs. Mitchell left $835,000 to the college last year for the establishment of Samuel Henry Bell scholarships. However, no provision
was made at that time for any memorial for Mrs. Mitchell.

Smith talked about the honor and the challenge which are connected with being elected to the Council. He emphasized the
fact that the members had been elected by their class to represent them. He also made the point that the
Freshman Council represented the authority of the College to the Freshman Class. He stated that the position of the Council
is one of potential influence, even though it has no disciplinary power.

BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Riots broke out throughout the southern rural areas, and although these were largely put down, the feeling of revolt was
moving towards the cities. The catalyst for action in Seoul was the proposition by Korean University’s faculty and three thousand
students that new elections were to be held. Lee, as editor of the university newspaper, assisted in the drafting of
Students Revolutionary Charter. Rioting erupted in Seoul, and over two hundred students, including one of Lee’s best friends, were killed.
Lee himself bears a wicked scar from a policeman’s bullet. On April 19, Rhee resigned, and a “caretaker government” took
over until new elections in July. Rhee’s old Prime Minister headed this pro tempore government, and an uncle of Lee's
served in the dual capacities of Minister of Internal Affairs and Attorney General. Lee himself entered the army to serve
as an officer for a half-year, but his expressed desire to continue his studies led the Defense Ministry to discharge
him before he had served this time. It was then that Lee applied for a student’s visa. Now the very
government

KOREA'S ANSWER TO FABIAN — Byoung Young Lee, Davidsonian from Seoul, South Korea, plays his version of some American juke
music to roommate Tommy Southall. (Staff Photo by Lawrimore)

After four months of maneuvering, and much confusion, the visa finally came through.
