Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Our Candidate

Wednesday, in the very first day of voting, the student body disposed with what usually takes at least two or three run-offs. At the close of the balloting, three men had been given a clear bid to state their platforms next Monday. It is indeed unusual that the student body narrowed its field to three so early in the voting. The three candidates should consider this seriously. We hope that they will evidence merit of this distinction Monday by giving a straightforward statement of their conception of student government and their stands on vital campus issues.

We are constantly concerned by those students who ask “what can the student council do?” We want to know what Messrs. Carrell, Kelley, and Killian feel a student government at Davidson can and should do.

Three years ago student government at Davidson hit rock bottom. The last two years have seen more determined efforts for an active council. We would like to see it go even further. There is no reason why THE DAVIDSONIAN should be the sole active voice of the campus.

We realize it is not “politically” expedient to take definite stands on campus issues. That method of campaigning works no ways as successfully as the regular 10:30 stud break and the “good guy” popularity appeal. But next Monday, the student body will be looking for some distinctive differences in three individuals who all pass the “good guy”, Davidson gentleman test. We hope they will be able to find them. And we suggest they begin by looking for the candidate with a real program in mind for the student council, with a vision of what Davidson student government can be with some hard work. He will get our vote if he is forthcoming.

Wednesday’s kickoff of elections saw a little over 500 students voting, a poor record considering each fraternity had its vested interests to support. We hope this is no indication of the peak participation. It is hardly a mandate of support when a winning candidate is backed by so small a percentage of the student body.

The Grand Old Tour

As the standard of living of the average Davidson Gentleman has increased, the Old Southern Custom of taking a Grand Tour of the Old World for Cultural Purposes has become more and more widespread. Particularly in the past few years, many students have spent summers or even longer periods of time in Europe. The tours which are organized by Pres. and Mrs. Martin have done a great deal to encourage this trend. They have, however, been restricted in size and restrictive in price.

With the airlines now offering substantial reductions in the cost of a round-trip flight to Europe for groups of over 24 persons and even greater bargains available for a group which is large enough to charter a plane, we would like to suggest that a campus group organize a European tour for this following summer. By reducing the cost of trans-Atlantic transportation to around $300 and by taking advantage of further group reductions for travel in Europe itself as well as living in the International Youth Hostels, the cost of the trip could be reduced to rock-bottom. In addition to an organized tour, students from Davidson and other schools who wanted to travel independently in Europe could take advantage of the reduced flight costs by traveling with the group. The idea is certainly worth investigation. Our nomination for organizer—the YMCA.

L.K.

What’s Ahead For The Magazine?

Twice this past week interested groups of students and faculty gathered unofficially to discuss the plight of the campus magazine and its recent attempts at humor. In addition, The Student Council Wednesday night devoted its meeting to the problem of Scripts ‘n Pranks. It was time for some serious discussion and evaluation to come forth.

Last fall THE DAVIDSONIAN expressed its feelings. For the past few years we have been consistently in favor of a literary magazine in the broadest sense of the word. Frankly, we had expected student discontent to express itself more vocally after the appearance of the Midwinters issue.

The history of the magazine at Davidson is a long involved series of varied names and varied efforts—The Davidson College Magazine, the Chameleon, the Yowl, and most recently Scripts ‘n Pranks. Each indicates an attempt to change the character of the magazine. The Yowl had come in the 1930s to concentrate on humor. It was a feeble concentration. Most writers will admit that good humor is the most difficult thing to produce in the literary field. Trustee action created Scripts ‘n Pranks with the stated purpose that it be a literary magazine. However, good humor was not to be excluded. In the last two decades, however, we have seen a gradual slipping back to that which was abolished. The magazine has become more and more devoted to humor with the accompanying result of more and more poor humor.

The Midwinters issue speaks for itself. It makes no professions of being literary and any pretenses at humor are dubious.

The main problem of the magazine goes back primarily, we feel, to students. Before a real literary magazine is possible at Davidson there must be wider student participation and interest and encouragement. That is the thought foremost in the minds of those people actively wrestling with the problem now.

In the light of the current dissatisfaction and discussion, we feel that it is wise to postpone the election of next year’s editor of the magazine. In all fairness to the candidates and the students, there needs to be a clearer understanding of the magazine’s future. Student Body President George Trask is most anxious to see a healthy literary magazine on campus. We pledge him our full support and cooperation in the study of the problem and working out of a new program. But we feel most strongly that as the problem arises from the students, the solution must likewise be forthcoming from them.

This is impossible unless you express your feelings, your suggestions, and your interests about the magazine which represents you. We want a magazine we can be proud to claim as ours. We welcome your letters to the paper, or if you prefer more direct expressions, we encourage you to convey your opinions and ideas to Trask or the magazine staff or this editor.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Lee Kirby

BUSINESS MANAGER
Don Saunders

Associate Editors
Bill Hagen
Mac Plaxico

Managing Editors
Steve Clark
Jeff Wampler

Feature Editor
Bill Ruth

News Editor
Sam Fort
David Jordan
Gene Adcock

Photographer
Joe McCutchen

Cartoonists
Doug Ackerman
Joe Howell
Dan Adams

Advertising Manager
Dave Calhoun

Circulation Manager
Clay Atkins

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Fine! Print 70 - We'll Use Extras For Scratch

University Center Program Will Supplement Present One

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

At their last meeting, the Board of Trustees took permissive action on the proposal for Davidson to join the Piedmont University Center. This was, in effect, a go-ahead for participation in the regional consolidation and cooperation program. Headquarters of the Center is located in Greensboro, President D. G. Martin said in an interview. Dr. Harold Hutson of Greensboro College and Dr. Dale Gramley of Salem College have been the leaders of the proposed organization.

50 MILE RADIUS

President Martin stated that the Center would be comprised of schools in the Piedmont area, a very rough designation, but generally within about a 50-mile radius. Specific references were made to Greensboro, Salem, Wake Forest, Burlington, Ashford, Catawba, and both Livingston and North Carolina Agricultural and Technical, Piedmont Negro institutions.

What exactly does the Center hope to accomplish? Martin said that it was an effort to pool resources for speakers, library and laboratory facilities, and cultural activities that the individual schools might be unwilling or unable to support alone.

Another question which was raised by the trustees’ action is whether Davidson could not profit more by associating with such schools as Duke, Carolina, State, and Washington and Lee. Martin said that the reason was mainly one of proximity. Since the program is based on sharing people and things, convenience of delivery is essential.

To an unasked question, Martin answered, “I don't believe that our prestige would be lessened.” In addition, it will be a privilege of Davidson to help out institutions which are less fortunate in endowments. There is no competition for applicants between Davidson and the other schools, Martin added.

COMPETITION MEASURE

This venture in cooperation is not to be construed as an unprecedented jump. President Martin cited similar programs in Virginia and Atlanta, Georgia. New Republic, June 19, 1961, mentioned two other cooperation programs, the Claremont Colleges in southern California and the Connecticut Valley of Massachusetts project. The same article also analyzes the situation which is leading to the consolidation movement. With the wholesale increase of public colleges and universities, the private institutions cannot compete for students without a “famous brand name.” This selling point is the possession of only about one in ten, however. The outlook for the smaller schools, particularly sectarian, the article states as “very grim unless consolidation, federation, or some other curb on institutional nationalism does not broaden the vistas they offer their students.”

NEGATIVE SIDE

While some would view with complacency the demise of the small college, the majority see it as disastrous. But what about the “brand name” schools? New Republic states that “good colleges fear that collaboration would jeopardize the special quality of their campus life, produce a sprawling bureaucracy, and undercut local vested interests which everybody is happy to see gratified. Colleges usually consolidate their efforts only when on the verge of bankruptcy.”

Where does Davidson fit into this picture? Is it the liberal arts Good Samaritan, or is the judgment of New Republic dated and invalid? The question will be answered next September when the program begins to build.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Race Elitism Unfounded For Nazis And America

Frakes

Dear Editor:

One of the most significant figures of this century has said, “No more than Nature desires the mating of weaker with stronger individuals, even less does she desire the blending of a higher with a lower race...”Historical experience shows with terrifying clarity that in every mingling of Aryan blood with that of lower peoples, the result was the end of the cultured people. North America, whose population consists in by far the largest part of Germanic elements who mixed but little with the lower colored peoples, shows a different humanity and culture from Central and South America, where the predominantly Latin immigrants often mixed with the aborigines on a large scale. The Germanic inhabitant of the American continent will remain the master as long as he does not fall victim to the defilement of the blood. 

I quote Hitler (Mein Kampf), not to suggest that anyone who repeats his ideas is a Fascist—for that would be as absurd as arguing that a man is a Communist because he opposes laissez-faire capitalism or nuclear tests—but to express amazement at the white racial elitism proclaimed from time to time at Davidson and to raise some questions about this elitism. The elitist argument often runs as follows: Colored peoples are constitutionally and genetically (not just culturally) inferior to Aryan peoples. Mingling of white and colored enhances the chances of interracial marriages, which if it occurred widely would destroy American civilization, reducing America to the backwardness of Spain or Latin America. Therefore, every possible barrier between white and black in this country must be preserved. 

The questions I would raise are as follows: Does the conviction that non-Aryans are constitutionally inferior originate in empirical observation or in unexamined visceral reactions? (When IQ tests were administered to large numbers of people for the first time in World War I, the average for the IQs of Northern Negroes was higher than the average for the IQs of Southern whites, which might suggest that intelligence, as measured by IQ tests, is as much a function of culture as it is of heredity.) Does the mingling of two groups necessarily mean widespread inter-marriage? (There is relatively little segregation of Jew from Gentile in this country and very little intermarriage.) In this status-seeking society, are many people, white or colored, likely to marry far below their educational and cultural levels? (The only interracial couple I know well are equals; he (white) is a Harvard man and she (Negro) is a Vassar graduate.) Does the argument that the “backwardness” of Spain and Portugal stems from widespread inter-marriage of Aryan and Negro rest upon a circumspect historical judgment—or upon the selection of facts in order to rationalize dogma? Does not any form of racial elitism—which twenty years ago was used to justify some of the most barbaric acts the world has yet seen—always lead to cruelty and injustice?

Val Frakes
Assistant to the Chaplain

Vagabonds Have Overall Success
BY HARRY WEST
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Christians were victorious over the lions Tuesday night and so thwarted the desire of the Roman populace to see a crowd of cranks eaten. In fact, one of the lions, a crank himself, joined the Christians. A small, but appreciative audience watched the Vagabonds stage Bernard Shaw's comic satire, Androcles and the Lion. And it was obvious as they left that the play was to have a successful three-night run.

Shaw, who dedicated his comedies to bursting the balloons of hollow pretensions and accepted conventions, wished here to show us what the Roman persecutions and all such persecutions are: attempts to suppress movements which threaten established law and order. And more particularly, he wanted to puncture the balloons of conventionalized religion and philosophy, being blown bigger by “opportunist Have-and-Holders.” His vehicle here is buffoonery. A group of Christians, who are, therefore, cranks, are doomed to die by an autocratic fool, Caesar, who is equally amused with killing as with sparing. Ferrovius, a Pauline Christian of great strength, whose business it is to wrestle for men’s souls, tears a lion to pieces. Androcles, our casual hero and Mr. Milquetoast in one, having extracted a thorn from a lion’s paw in a forest near Rome, is finally thrown into the arena to be eaten. The lion approaches and recognizes Androcles as his savior and the two dance off together. And Caesar’s whole spectacle for that day is ruined and he will have to wait for another batch of lions and Christians.

Costuming, lighting effects, and sets were excellent. And for the most part, the acting was good. Walter Bost and Louise Hampton, as Androcles and his wife, turned in excellent performances. Chip Clark, as Caesar, and Walker Clarke, as Lentulus, were hilarious. Jan Papra and Rufus Hallmark were convincing as Ferrovius and the Editor. And from Tommy Hamilton’s energetic portrayal of Spintho, we found out that Romans wore Bermuda shorts under their tunics.

The weakest, but not necessarily poor, portrayals were Lavinia, Ellen Winkler, and the Captain, Walt McNairy. Lavinia was meant to be a light-hearted free-thinker and represented Shaw's serious ideas. The Captain was representative of Shaw's opponent. And in the play, they are given long speeches (and it is therefore partly Shaw’s fault they don’t go off well). In the middle of this buffoonery, we have long serious arguments by Lavinia and the Captain; and it just doesn’t fit. Lavinia is supposed to mock the Captain, not engage him in serious argument.

Androcles and the Lion was great fun. We left happy that we had seen it. And we laughed about the performances of Clark and Clarke, Papra and Bost. In fact, they were so delightful we didn't care what they said so much as how they said it. We were sure that both Christians and Romans had been satirized; but we were not quite sure about what they had been satirized. Shaw is dashingly witty and we tend to watch his swords, not his balloons.

Tortured Student Reveals New Subversive Element
BY JOHN MOREFIELD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

It wasn’t enough that they turned the Union lounge into a tropical paradise. No. Now they've turned the Coke machines against us. If you have to ask who “They” is, or are, you lack a basic awareness of life. Suffice it to say that “They” are much too real. Who is “Us?” “Us” refers to those of us whom “They” sit around thinking up ways to torment, that’s who.

About the coke machines. I used to like the coke machines, and I think, humbly, that they liked me. On nights when I was up late, like the last night before classes ended last semester, when I still had five philosophy papers to do, to be handed in before noon the next day... on nights like that, I had the coke machines to be my friends. I would leave my typewriter in the lobby (it disturbs my roommate), crushing Joad's Guide to Philosophy in my raging little hands, and, after sobbing quietly into the darkness outside the front door, I would remember the coke machines, one in particular, the one in Belk.

WRITER EULOGIZES

She... oops! I mean it, would always be there, just inside the back door, humming sensually in her electrically flashing solitude, just waiting for a kind caress, always ready with a comforting click or gurgle (as the cup was filled with the soothing juices of early-morning sustenance). How can I explain or reproduce what those nights meant to me? And the sweet little coke machine? She was too good. Too good, indeed, to be corrupted with the absoluteness with which her brothers and sisters were corrupted. For she gives my money back. I get no coke, to be sure, no warmth or comfort anymore, but she, at least, doesn’t take my money. She must have stronger character than the others.

Not so the machine in Watts, the Monster of Grubby Hall. It takes the quarter, all right, and makes change. The cup tumbles down. But all I get is a cup of compressed air. A ten-cent cup of compressed air. But these are not the worst of the coke machines on campus. There’s the one in which the cup tumbles over to the side and the coke runs down into and through the little drain there. There's one that doesn’t even bother to drop a cup. And who can forget the little gem in the union, which squirts the coke cunningly to the side, around the cup?

SUFFERING UNIQUE

I realize, of course, that I am not the only one who suffers at the hands of these diabolical devices. But I think I have suffered more. Have you ever been dumped on by a passionate girl coke machine? Something, of course, must be done. But I cannot say who is bringing about this slow, cruel attack on our morales, except that it is “They.” “They” are responsible for everything that happens to “Us.” I must admit that we cannot rule out the possibility of Communist subversion. It really makes a great deal of sense, when you think about it. What better way of robbing Americans of their dollars than a slow, creeping, rather inconspicuous thing like an army of dishonest coke machines?

We could station a spy to watch each coke machine day and night from a telephone booth, or from the darkness underneath the staircase, just to see who comes to empty the coin box on each machine. These persons should be apprehended and checked, and if their social security numbers don't check out, or if there has ever been any red hair in their family, or if they have some strange, wild-eyed love for Tchaikovsky, they should be locked away in a safe place. Who knows what might be eventually brought about by such a small beginning? I vaguely imagine coke being declared subversive by the HUAC, and Pepsi and Nehi becoming suspect in the eyes of all good God-and-country-fearing Americans. And though I hate to see coke go, I am willing to sacrifice for the sake of a better and cleaner America. I hope only for one thing. I hope they will go easy on the little machine in Belk. I am still quite fond of her, even though they have taken her face away.