Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1962
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

The Trustees-Quiet

The mid-term meeting of the trustees was short and quiet but not uneventful. Action on the most important and pressing question was the quietest. The petitions of the faculty and students to open Davidson admissions to qualified men of all races and nationalities were referred to the Executive Committee. We are naturally disappointed that no more positive action was taken. If the trustees are merely dragging their feet at a time when Davidson should be seizing the leadership in the South, the move is even more regrettable. But if sending the problem to the Executive Committee reflects a serious desire for objective and progressive consideration of an issue which is of great importance to us, it is certainly understandable. Indeed, we look with hope to the committee in its study of the integration problem. Had the faculty-student votes been sent to the committee which previously studied the question, they would have probably sent back the same opinion that integration was not in Davidson's "best interest." Perhaps we can expect new progress from a new committee. By giving the issue to this leading group among the trustees for consideration, they have shown that they are quite serious in searching for a real solution to the problem. The Executive Committee has in its hands not only the behest of the students and faculty but Christianity’s moral mandate. The year is not yet finished. Can we hope for progress in May?

If integration indecision will bring reactions from many students, the raise in room rent and the general fee will leave an empty feeling in every student’s pocket on campus. The sad truth is, of course, that if we want to compete with other colleges of our kind in the South and nation, we must have the money to do it. This adjustment in fees brings Davidson’s price in line with that of most other institutions in the South. There is a great danger in such an increase in the cost of a Davidson education. We have already become a one-class school to too great an extent. With this change, a part of our vitality seems to have been drained away. We asked one of the trustees why the ’30s seem to have produced so many outstanding alumni, his answer—the Depression. It was a hard school but a good one. The trustees acknowledged that a qualified man should not be prevented from attending Davidson because of lack of funds. The new rates make it more difficult, however. The raise in prices was necessary. Now the time is ripe for the study of further scholarship and job opportunities and even more basic solutions to the problem such as the graduated scale of rates employed by some schools whereby wealthier students pay more and poorer ones less.

Finally, the investigation of the Piedmont University Center which the trustees okayed may prove to be of great interest to Davidson in the future. As the exact nature of the program becomes clearer and more facts are available, we will be able to examine the idea in future editorial comment. At the present, the trustee go-ahead is merely a vote of confidence in the judgment of the administration in the investigation of the Center.

L.K.

Needed: A Dynamic IFC

The IFC this week has come in for its share of criticism from a number of students. But the most constructive comments came from Sigma Nu President Bob Phillips. He presented to the fraternity presidents and to the IFC a plan for reorganization which shows some original thought. (See story on page one). It is our opinion, however, that Phillips’s plan has approached the problem of IFC weakness from the wrong side. He has chosen to strengthen the IFC by injecting leadership from the fraternity presidents’ organization—the wrong source. We, too, see many problems in present IFC organization. Its prime function should be to represent the combined fraternities in all college affairs. To do this, it needs the support of all fraternity men and all chapter officers. Unfortunately, most chapters have elected men to the council without due thought to this need. Since the presidency is considered something of a political plum, too many men have been elected to the IFC with only this office in mind. Since IFC reorganization is now up for consideration, we would like to make the following suggestions. First, the IFC presidency should be made an elective office to which all fraternity rising seniors are eligible, and for which all fraternity men may vote. Only after the election of the president from the fraternity system at large would individual chapters choose their representatives. All 12 fraternities would elect a voting representative, including the fraternity of which the president was a member. The president would have no vote. The independents should, of course, continue to choose a non-voting social representative. If necessary, a rule could provide that no fraternity could have the office for two consecutive years. It might also be wise to require IFC representatives to be members of the junior and senior classes. We very much favor Phillips's plan to give investigative functions to the students themselves. We don’t feel, however, that it is necessary for the fraternity presidents to be forced to carry this extra load. If the IFC were truly a “dynamic organization” it could carry this function itself. Because, however, the faculty and the student body saw the IFC baffled by Sophomore Rush and other controversies last year, there has been no desire to give it strong regulatory powers. A change of attitude toward the IFC is needed. Let the fraternity presidents go back to their chapter responsibilities. Revamp the IFC to make it “a dynamic organization with dynamic leadership.”

D.B.S.

A Ray Of Sunshine

“Don’t apologize for the fog,” Dean Rusk, ’31, Secretary of State, said in reference to our usually inhospitable weather. “I will deliberately try to add to it.” But if the skies were overcast for the celebrated return of our presently most illustrious alumnus, everything else was bright. From the messages he delivered, both on and off the record, to his steps back into the past, he left us with a warm feeling of pride and nostalgia. Indeed he did much to lift the fog from our minds about this difficult problem of foreign diplomacy. If learning does arise from confusion, as the Secretary indicated, then he provided the learning after a series of visitors, well below his stature and wisdom, has earlier brought the campus confusion. And his hopeful note of optimism last night was a welcome relief to the dismal picture to which we are accustomed. This is a man who cherishes deeply the goals set forth in the United Nations Charter and he directs his every action as head of our state department toward their realization. Davidson can be justly proud of Dean Rusk. “It’s good to be back,” he kept reminding us. It was good to have you, Mr. Secretary. The pleasure was all ours.

E.S.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Jordan

BUSINESS MANAGER
Gene Adcock

Associate Editors
Lee Kirby
Den Saunders

Managing Editors
Bill Hagen
Mac Plaxico
Dan Adams

Sports Editor
Steve Clark

Assignments Editor
Jeff Wampler

Feature Editor
Bill Ruth

News Editor
Sam Fort

Advertising Manager
Dave Calhoun

Circulation Manager
Clay Atkins

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Free Trade Is Keynote Of Secretary's Address
BY THE HON. DEAN RUSK
Secretary of State

(Editor's Note: The following are excerpts from a speech given Wednesday to the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.)

I should like to speak of two proposed legislative measures that are essential if the United States is to fulfill the role which history has thrust upon it—the role of a strong and wise leader of the Free World. One of these measures is concerned with expanding trade among Free World nations; the other with providing the resources of capital and experience to enable the less-developed nations to maintain political independence and achieve a more nearly adequate level of life. The European Economic Community, or Common Market, is bringing together by their own voluntary act millions of gifted and resourceful people commanding vast resources of skill and productive capacity. In the curious new physics of political unity, the whole not only can be, but almost always is, greater than the sum of its parts. The emergence of the Community means that we shall have on the two sides of the Atlantic Ocean two immense trading areas, two common markets, so to speak: the common market of the United States and the Common Market of Europe. After all, the European Common Market is in many ways tailor-made for our type of industrial enterprise. We are the only industrial nation of the Free World that has developed its industrial plant and its industrial techniques to serve a great mass market. We shall have to apply our genius for distribution, for merchandising, to an entirely new market and shall have to learn to deal with habits and tastes different from those of America. The Trade Expansion Act of 1962 is the instrument which the President will need in order to achieve this result. It would authorize the gradual elimination of tariffs by the United States in return for concessions by the EEC on those products in which the United States and the EEC together supply 80% of world trade—products in which we have shown we can compete. Our own industries—which now employ some 3 million workers directly producing for export — will have access to growing markets... On the one hand, we cannot allow the future of the free world — and this is what is at stake — to be forfeited for a small minority. On the other, we cannot callously stand by while this minority is injured. It need not be. In the case of an industry very important to you in North Carolina, cotton textiles, we were able to negotiate an agreement with major importing and exporting countries to ease the problem. Such trade adjustment assistance is provided for under the new Trade Expansion Act... It will open important new markets for our products abroad, and increased trade will give our economy added strength. And certainly, there can be no question but that the lowering of trade barriers will go far to ensure that 180 million American consumers will obtain the best quality and widest varieties of goods at prices derived from vigorous competition.

We have been coming to the aid of our hard-pressed fellows on a scale unprecedented in human history... We were inspired, if by nothing else, by a realization that the exigencies of the mid-twentieth century left us no choice but to do what we could to bring a decent world order into being. First, we know that our loans or grants to another country can be no more than the extra, if critical, push... Economic and social development cannot be exported from one country to another. The main drive and the basic resources must come from within the country itself. We attach the greatest importance to the movement of the OECD countries toward appropriating approximately 1% of Gross National Product committed to aid for underdeveloped countries... it is a matter of some importance that no one of the countries which have become independent since World War II has fallen behind the Iron or Bamboo Curtain, that no nation has willingly embraced communism as the result of a free election.

We shall find Allies in all corners of the earth—the men and women of many lands who want the kind of world sketched out in the UN Charter, a world of peace and human dignity, of creative endeavor, of expanding frontiers for the human spirit.

The Power Of The Press... By Adams Freeland

Dear Editor:

At the risk of being numbered in the “God Squad" and bringing the further wrath of the Scripts ‘N Pranks upon this paper, I want to comment upon the editorial ethics of the editorial staff of the Scripts ‘N Pranks. First, I must praise highly all items except “Gentlemanius Davidsonius” and “Handbook for Davidson Dates.” While “Gentlemanius Davidsonius” is the sub-cultural level of humor that one might expect from such a publication, there is no excuse for the gross vulgarity to be found in “Handbook for Davidson Dates.”

TASTE QUESTIONED

The editorial board showed very bad taste in allowing this trash to be printed. Had this been only my own view I might not have written this. But several other persons said to me that the stuff was not fit to be read by their dates. It misrepresented a large part of the student body and was a disgrace to the college. While I do not expect Puritan morals of the staff, I at least expect them to have the intelligence to determine what type of humor is acceptable in what type of company.

Charles J. Freeland
Harding

Dear Editor:

People have asked me whether Britain is doing anything about entering the space race and here is my reply. Going alone into the space race is now apparently out of the question as Britain lacks the vast financial resources available in this country for development. Perhaps we could afford it if we really tried but I would much sooner sacrifice some national prestige and have the money spent improving the lot of the lower classes. Grandma would much prefer to see her pension increased than satellites in the sky. However, don’t misunderstand me here.

CO-OP ROCKET

The question is not whether we should go into the space race but rather whether we should go it alone. What in fact Britain has done is to join ‘The Space Club’ and a three-stage rocket launcher is being constructed. The first stage is being built by Britain, the second by France, and the third by West Germany. The rocket would be tested at Woomera, Australia where we already have well-established facilities, including radar and optical tracking stations. Britain also has plans for the development of a worldwide satellite communications system which it is thought will pay for itself after about ten years.

DIFFICULTIES ASSUMED

Looking back I am naturally a trifle skeptical about British, French, and German scientists, speaking different languages and using different units, being able to cooperate on a rocket project as mentioned above. Even assuming they could, the problem is far from solved as the politicians would step in. And you know as well as I do that it only takes one person like De Gaulle to render the situation pregnant with possibilities for disagreement. But don’t despair! I'm sure one day British, French, and Germans will be able to get together on common ground... in space!

Steve Harding
Hallmark

Dear Editor:

This time last week, instead of enjoying the luxury of the “female presence,” I was sick abed with the flu. Yet the conditions at Preyer Infirmary went a long way to compensate for the aforementioned sacrifice. The Infirmary is sweet relief from the hectic world that constantly churns less than a hundred feet away. The inner sanctum of that building spares its occupants some of the noise and rush which is college normalcy.

NURSES COMPLIMENTED

Another factor contributing to the restful atmosphere is the good food. The meals are freshly cooked in small quantities so that the kitchen need not sacrifice the quality of its product. The final, but most important, praiseworthy aspect of the Infirmary is its nursing staff. The nurses are all kind and considerate. I wish most highly to compliment Mrs. Johnston. Her cheer, eagerness to please, and outgoing generosity made my sojourn in the Infirmary a nearly enviable stay.

HARD BEDS

The staff is apologetic about one thing only, and rightfully: the poor beds in its upstairs ward. While I was there the ridiculously weak springs were strengthened with six-foot plywood boards. This created the other extreme in the degree of softness. The Infirmary needs new beds. The staff knows it. The patients know it! Does the administration know it?

Rufus E. Hallmark, Jr.