Che Hautdsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO — FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1962
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A New Responsibility
The Faculty has outdone itself. In a rare moment of the college's history, it has proved more liberal than even the Student Council on cut policy. By voting in the original proposal of the committee which recommended the present free cut policy, the Faculty struck out the controversial holiday clause and even went beyond a Student-Council-Executive Committee recommendation for either double or triple cuts on the days immediately before and after holidays. Although it was pointed out that this is being done on a trial basis, we are gratified, if not flattered, by this attitude of liberality and willingness to experiment on the part of the Faculty.

Pres. D. Grier Martin, when interviewed by THE DAVIDSONIAN after the vote abolishing the holiday rule, said, “The responsibility now lies with the student.” This is certainly a welcome statement and one which we hope to hear uttered in connection with faculty action in the future. But the recent decision by the faculty imparts a trust in student maturity and willingness to accept responsibility. We hope the students prove themselves worthy of this confidence. For if they do, they will surely pave the way for the acceptance of individual freedom and responsibility as the prevailing spirit behind future faculty decisions.
J.K.A. and C.D.

One Further Suggestion...
In light of the Faculty’s presently open mind regarding cut policy, we would like to recall a proposal made first by Professor MacCormac and later restated by the editor of this paper. Under this plan, certain on-campus presentations, such as lectures or musical programs, could be attended in substitution for a vespers or chapel program. A pledged statement or attendance card could then be turned in for checking in the offices.

We would also ask that, as in former years, attendance at off-campus vespers be counted as substitution for attending the college service. The advantages to such a plan are fairly obvious. It would allow the student more selectivity in attending those programs which he feels would be most beneficial and interesting to him. It would also encourage those students who are pressed for time to attend Artist Series programs, lectures, Vagabond productions, and other such college-sponsored activities, since, by attending these functions, those students would then be freed from attending a chapel or vespers program. The wider range of selections would in turn raise the quality of the currently required programs and would give added support to those not presently included. The prospect of a sparse audience will, we hope, spur planners to seek more of the better speakers and vary the now-required assemblies to a greater degree.

We believe that such a broadening of the present system would serve not only to strengthen all the programs concerned, but would also, as Professor MacCormac suggested, bring into focus the relationship between the sacred and the secular. We trust that this proposal will not be overlooked.
J.K.A.

A Matter Of Emphasis
Now that the Mississippi ruckus has subsided into a few reactionary twitches, the press is duly reminding us that CUBA is still there in all its festering glory. Life Magazine's current article is at last giving us the “real low down” and will certainly upset a lot of red-blooded Americans. “Let's go get them varmints!” will again be carried with the winds.

We would suggest that a look further south might be in order. Erwin Landsberger’s article on this page points out, from a student's point of view, that the Alliance for Progress hasn’t made life a bowl of cherries down there yet. Apparently, the Alliance, one year old in August, has neither caught the imagination of the working classes nor, more importantly, the students. But, what are future leaders like Erwin supposed to think when the U.S. gives a billion a year to institute slow social reform programs and then turns around and gives about the same amount to lavish military establishments that have so often opposed the same programs?

These establishments, originally subsidized to provide a “hemisphere defense against outside aggression,” would make little difference in this nuclear age with their obsolete American weapons. But they have proved themselves mighty useful when it comes to overthrowing governments. In Peru, it was a U.S.-supplied Sherman tank commanded by a U.S.-trained colonel that was instrumental in taking the presidential palace. Three of the four officers who commanded the coup on the democratic government were U.S.-trained. The fact is that the high brass in most Latin American nations is very much a part of the status quo—the same status quo the Alliance for Progress will need to undermine before it can effectively institute reforms. It is no wonder the students are disillusioned when these armed cliques can holler “red government” at any time and set up their own “democratic” regime. Even General Walker can’t do that yet.

“Operation Amigo,” the Latin student visitation program being sponsored by THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER, will perhaps teach some Peruvian youths what our aims really are. And this is good. But while “Operation Amigo” may be a useful way to get at some of the grassroots, someone’s going to have to get out and clear a few trees too.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editor
Editorial Assistant
Assistant Editor
Managing Editors
Sports Editor
Assignments Editor
Feature Editor
News Editor
Photographers
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Assistant Bus. Manager
Cartoonists

Bill Ruth
David Stitt
Jeff Wampler
Bill Pridgen
Charles Ramberg
Greg Govan
Bill Hagen
Ed Willer
Knox Abernethy
Charles Dibble
Jim Williams
Joe McCutchen
Tom Anderson
Dan Adams
Joe Howell
Walter MacDonald
Charlie Smith
Malcolm Lane
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

One Down, One To Go...

Latin Student Criticizes U.S. Hemispheric Policy
BY ERWIN LANDSBERGER
Richardson Scholar

The governments of Latin American countries are called unstable governments. That judgment is correct. The question is, why are they unstable? The answer is not simple and maybe my own answer is not correct, but at least it is the thinking of many people I know.

The Latin Americans are growing impatient because of their governments. Some of them are bad governments owned by only a few people who don’t represent the thinking of the population; other governments could be good, but they don't do anything for the country and the people don't like them. They want something that moves, something that makes the country go up faster.

Meanwhile, two important things are developing. These are the “Alianza para el Progreso” and Communism. The United States promised a good quantity of aid to Latin America, but this aid was delayed more and more and reduced each time it was delivered. But the military aid for the different countries did not suffer delay or reduction. This caused a psychological effect on the armies of some countries, and they began to feel that they were all-powerful. The governments began to be influenced by the army; presidents were removed by the armies in a so-called “revolution.”

Some people think that the only method to “fix” the government of the country is by a revolution. The communists take advantage of these revolutions to get into the country, to convince people, and to get new devotees. Can a revolution be called then either a communist or a socialist act? Certainly not.

How do we see the attitude of the United States in the face of these problems? The United States thinks in a different way about the revolution; it thinks...

NSA Unites The College Politicos
Editor’s Note: In preparation for Student Body President Danny Carrell’s report to the Student Council on affiliation with the NSA, THE DAVIDSONIAN will publish several articles about the organization in order that the student body may become more aware of what NSA is and what it does. This article is the first of a series.

The United States National Student Association is a confederation of nearly four hundred college and university student governments; the total enrollment at member schools is over a million and a quarter. USNSA seeks to serve the student community in a variety of ways. It provides certain student services which are possible only by a centralized agency, as indicated by its Student Government Information Service, through which student governments exchange concrete programming ideas. NSA also seeks to advance both the scope and meaning of student rights and student responsibilities through its sponsorship of human relations seminars and student press conferences.

Generally accepted as the primary spokesman for the American student community, USNSA regularly works with many adult educational organizations in an effort to carry those policies determined by the delegates to its annual National Student Congresses. NSA is a comparatively young national union of students; Europe boasts much older ones. There were attempts in the 1930s to found a viable American national union, but success was slight and by the end of World War II these organizations had long since disappeared.

In 1946 a group of American students attended the constitutional convention of the International Union of Students, and returned to this country determined to organize a student union which could participate in the IUS. Their first goal was achieved. In December of 1946 several hundred students met at the University of Chicago to discuss the establishment of such a national organization; a constitutional convention was held at the University of Wisconsin in the summer of 1947 and NSA was formed. The International Union of Students was quickly seized by the Communists and turned to their purpose; NSA never affiliated with the IUS. Rather, it helped to found the non-Communist International Student Conference, wherein it still...participates. The basic unit of membership in NSA is the student body. There are no individual memberships. A school affiliates with the Association by either a student body referendum or a vote of the democratically elected Student Government. The Congress determines Association policy and elects five national officers who serve full-time for one year. There is a two-year limit to the time in which any one person can serve as an officer. Between Congresses, the affairs of the Association are watched over by the National Executive Committee, a body consisting of the chairman of each of the twenty-one autonomous regions of the Association, plus the vice chairmen of the larger regions. The regions are established along geographical lines. 

A member of the Carolinas-Virginia Region. Carolinas-Virginia has two voting delegates on the National Executive Committee. (National Student News)

They are a communist act and that the new governments established by militaries don’t deserve any kind of help. That is partially true: a revolution is not always communist, but could be if communism takes command. So, if a revolution takes place we need help to prevent communism from taking over. But what does the United States do? It breaks off diplomatic relations with the country, and in effect says, communism take over, that country is yours.

Now what about the “fixed” governments? It is true that many of those governments are not constitutional, are not elected by the people, but it is also true that that government may be better than the one before. Do the new governments deserve help? Maybe not. But we do need help to change the bad governments, the so-called “tyrannies.” What about the case of Cuba, the most commented on of all? A revolution took place; perhaps it was a little rude, but sometimes it is better to have a little blood instead of a whole country invaded with communism and so forth. Cuba did not receive help, and we have the first spot of communism in the hemisphere. Sometimes when people in their fury hurry for some ideal, they don’t realize who is trying to give good help and who is trying to take advantage of the revolution.

I am from Chile. What is going on in my country? Well, actually nothing strange. In 1964 we will have presidential elections and there is a high probability that we will have a socialist president, elected according to all the rules. Will the United States cut relations with Chile? I don’t know. I hope not. Probably if we have that socialist president, sooner or later we might have a revolution, and if somebody doesn’t help us to prevent that revolution or aid us during the revolution, the communists will not waste that chance. Why will we have a revolution if the president is elected by the people and for the people? Because when one strike takes place it will be resolved with force and not with nice words; and that method won't please too many people. More strikes will take place, the army will intervene, shooting will begin, and what will follow is obvious. Whether it will be a fortunate or an unfortunate revolution I don’t know, either. Latin America is going through a dangerous but very important step toward stability and we need help to move on the right foot. We need education, a knowledge of what to do and how to do it, we need a special thing called money, not merely promises, before it is too late. Money given to the right persons for the development of the country instead of for armies. Latin America will never have a strong enough army to repel a nuclear and atomic attack, so instead of wasting money on that, let us do something beneficial for the standard of living of the Latin American people.

Shows Confidence
BY DANNY CARRELL
Student Body President

“By repealing the holiday clause of the absence regulations, the faculty gave a strong vote of confidence to the student body—one of importance equal to the repeal of the sophomore rush regulation. As in the previous case, we, the students, must show the faculty that we are worthy of its vote of confidence. The revised cut system has an interesting background. Last year a committee was set up under the chairmanship of Dr. J. H. Oswalt to study the problem of absences. This committee, feeling that more responsibility should be placed in the hands of the students, set up the system we are now under; the holiday clause was not included. However, the faculty, worried about a mass pre-holiday exodus, overruled the committee and inserted the holiday clause. The committee yielded because it felt that even with the inclusion of the holiday clause, the new system was a step in the right direction. The faculty approved the new system in January. Notice of the action was publicized in THE DAVIDSONIAN, but strangely enough, little was said by students about the change until late in the spring. Then, because of a rising tide of objection to the holiday clause within the student body, the Student Council decided to look into the issue. It concluded that in an attempt to liberalize the system, the faculty had in reality made it more restrictive. The underachiever would be helped by the change, not the conscientious student. Consequently, I met with Dr. Oswalt’s committee and presented to it a request of the Student Council calling for the repeal of the holiday clause. The committee referred the request to the faculty, which rejected it. The Council resumed its fight this fall. It believed that the new system was incomplete because it did not state what penalty would be inflicted if a student violated the holiday rule. The faculty had, however, designated the Executive Committee as the disciplinary body which would rule on situations outside the provisions of the regulations. The Council, therefore, requested the Executive Committee to state a penalty and suggested that a double or perhaps a triple cut penalty be considered. The Executive Committee proposed a triple cut penalty to the faculty, which then repealed the whole holiday regulation. The system now stands as it was originally proposed by the Absence Regulations Committee, and the Student Council’s original request has been granted. I wish to emphasize the point that the faculty can always change its mind again. I do not believe that the faculty should be concerned if there is a mass exodus before a holiday. The professor should not have to change his teaching plan if his class decreases to a handful, and the student should realize that he is held responsible for everything which goes on in class regardless of whether he is present. The fact is, however, that the faculty may look unfavorably upon a mass exodus. Furthermore, the student, especially the poor student, should not cut just for the sake of cutting; and because of the well-arranged holiday schedule this year, the excuse that we do not get enough time off is no longer valid. We are being tested. “To everyone who has will more be given,” said Matthew in the parable of the talents. Perhaps someday the 25% rule will be removed, and the responsibility of obtaining an education will rest entirely on the students. For the present, however, we must show the faculty that we are mature enough to accept the responsibility which has been entrusted to us. I appeal to you—prove yourselves worthy of the faculty's vote of confidence.

Comment On Mississippi: "Cry Sorrow, Sorrow..."
BY BILL FERRIS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“Cry sorrow. Sorrow. Yet let good prevail.” All who saw Agamemnon last week will remember this prayer of mixed hope and despair. The elders repeat it as they find themselves helpless before fate and brute power. Their prayer speaks to us as we face the present tragedy in Mississippi. In Mississippi, the stronger power of the federal government is attempting to bring justice to the Negro. A nightmare of blood, tear gas, and bayonets has shown that power alone can never establish this justice. The people must first be willing to accept it for themselves. I think the recent events in Mississippi raise a number of serious questions about our society. Why must our government call out militia to enforce a law demanding that a man be judged by his ability and not his color? Does power alone determine our sense of right and wrong? The answer seems to be “yes,” even in the church, which claims to work for higher ends than power. The church has failed to lead in interracial problems. Fear of criticism has so sterilized the church that God’s law is now modified to conform to the prevailing law of power. One minister in Oxford, Miss. has said, “We hesitate to make rash statements, but we feel the law should be upheld.” Man has good reason to “cry sorrow” when his society is being destroyed by forces he cannot understand. Hatred and misunderstanding are tearing apart our relations with our fellow man. The sickness of life chokes our very souls. Man has lost the thread of meaning he must have to live. Where do we turn in this chaos of existence for meaning? We must find it within ourselves. No external power will be strong enough to enforce “good” in life against the forces of evil around us. Aeschylus’ prayer that “good prevail” is still before us. Is there any answer for him? Two thousand years ago the soft-spoken son of a carpenter gave his answer. Love. Such a simple word, but so difficult to find in ourselves.

PEANUTS
WE'RE ALL OUT OF DOG FOOD... HOW ABOUT A LITTLE BREAD AND MILK?
OKAY, BRING ON THE BREAD AND MILK