PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN — FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1962

MAYOR STANFORD BROOKSHIRE is shown at a coffee hour after his chapel speech Tuesday. With Brookshire is Dean Frontis Johnston who introduced him to the student body. (Photo by McCutchen).

Brookshire Cants Optimistic Ritual
BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

He was a small man with graying hair and a smile that was almost too quick. He was introduced with the dry panoply of a visiting fireman. And when he rose to speak, in all of Chambers auditorium, he was utterly alone.

The Honorable Stanford H. Brookshire began with the “confidence” and “optimism” of the ‘Twenties. “Good morning, young gentlemen; it’s a good day to be alive.” The student body then read responsively, “This is the best day of my life until tomorrow.”

The mayor of Charlotte proceeded with the ritual. For life in the South has survived as ritual, and, like a mass, plods along through all the particulars with unerring predictability, “large enough to be metropolitan, small enough to be friendly.” While the service progressed, there were many who had heard it too often, for the glory of the South, as of the mass, is its changelessness. These thought of the splendors of US 21 as it became Statesville Ave. and Graham, and shifted in their seats.

But what of the man, the utterly alone man, who spoke as the South must speak? His confidence and optimism were wasted on a student body that was too much a part of its age to feel either. Applause sputtered; the mayor was still alone.

In a coffee hour at the Union following the Chapel program, Mayor Brookshire met three faculty members, four students, four Richardson students, and two housemothers serving coffee. He named names, made polite conversation, then hinted that there was some business waiting in Utopia South. With less confidence and optimism, the small, graying, and utterly alone Mayor of Charlotte quietly left.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Lammers
Schenck
Cumming
McGeachy
Gourley
Minter
Smith
Hight
Pierce
Threlkeld
Houchens
Plott
Hunt
Ratliff
Willcox
Jackson
Rhodes
Wruck

Terry Discusses Religious Attitudes

Chaplain Will Terry, who will speak this week at vespers on “The Hardness of Goodness,” discusses religious life at Davidson with THE DAVIDSONIAN this week. “Religious life at Davidson, and the students’ finding a rewarding place in that life, have a long way to go.”

“There are Davidson students, some pious and some not so pious, who are earnestly searching for answers to life’s deepest problems. These students are asking real questions and are seeking to find solutions to basic problems. Some sincerely want to be of service to society whether that be here or beyond the campus.”

Chaplain Terry mentioned the attitude of the Davidson student toward religion and religious responsibilities. He described two major attitudes toward religion in the following manner: “The Davidson student does not wish to appear enthusiastic about his religion. He would prefer often to be thought a cynic or, at least, casual. The Davidson student is very idealistic about what the campus and society should be like. That is, he is idealistic about what the faculty, administration, and church should do about matters but very unidealistic about where his responsibilities lie in that same area. The affluence and mental capabilities of some students have lulled them into such a secure and optimistic feeling about their personal future, and being so dedicated to a material view of life, they are not sure whether sincere religious convictions might be more of an obstacle to their attaining their goals in life than a help in the living of life.”

Rev. Vance Barron, minister to the Chapel Hill Presbyterian Church, will preach at freshman vespers in Hodson Hall at 7:30 p.m. Sunday. Rev. Barron, a native of Arkansas, is a graduate of Arkansas College. He received a BD from Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga. He served churches in Georgia and South Carolina before coming to Chapel Hill.

Literary Societies Have Varied Plans

The literary societies of Davidson, which, according to Phi President Seaborn Jones, “have been dormant for years,” are experiencing a re-awakening. Ground plans have already been laid to ensure this revitalization. Perhaps the most interesting event in the near future is a joint meeting of the societies Monday in the Phi Hall. Dr. Chalmers Davidson, well known for his humorous and informative speeches, will present a program on the history of both societies. This will be an open meeting.

Future plans for both groups include debates with neighboring girls’ schools, a joint meeting for a program of readings by members of Sigma Upsilon, and instruction in the art of debating by the debate team. Don Stowell, assistant director of dramatics, gave a program on drama at the last meeting of the Eumenean Society. The Eumeneans are also planning a program on contemporary European literature. This will be delivered by Davidson’s Richardson Scholars. The Phis hope to get the author of the YMCA Book-of-the-Year to speak to their society on his work. Plans for this are still tentative.

Davidson Debaters Plan Tournament

Davidson’s debaters will host debate teams from Duke, Wake Forest, Gardner-Webb, and Wingate in a three-round tournament on Oct. 19-20. The subject for debate at this meet is: “Resolved that the non-Communistic nations of the world should establish an economic community.” This will be the topic for all intercollegiate debates in the 1962-63 school year. Part of a team will argue for this proposal and part against it.

Dr. Joseph T. Drake, coach for the society, has announced that the first off-campus tournament will be held at Mercer University in Macon, Ga. on Oct. 26-27. A varsity team representing Davidson will be composed of...

Spud Stewart Reports That Most Frosh Follow Rules
BY BOB ADAMS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Looking forward to Homecoming, Freshman Advisor Spud Stewart expressed hope that the Class of ’66, bringing dates and wearing beanies, would sit together during the game Saturday afternoon.

In reviewing the overall Freshman Class attitude, Stewart was quick to emphasize that the Class of ‘66 was “very mature, while no less manly than classes of previous years.” He added that the freshmen were abiding by their regulations with few exceptions.

The most flagrant violation occurred at the pep rally preceding the Davidson-Wofford game; this was the mass beanie burning demonstration. The Freshman Court dealt accordingly with those involved. The most predominant minor offenses have included failure to wear beanies, walking on the grass, and failing to speak. “Even though some of the regulations seem trivial, the freshmen should try to take them all seriously,” Stewart said. He explained that, primarily, the regulations are provided to mold the freshman into the Davidson tradition and to give them a sense of unity as members of a class. “The wearing of beanies and name tags is a practical regulation. Speaking and being friendly are regulations supporting the Davidson tradition,” he said.

During THE DAVIDSONIAN interview, Stewart indicated that the Freshman Court would try at least 12 freshmen in its meeting scheduled Wednesday night. “There will probably be more than 15 appearing before the court when the results of Wednesday morning’s freshman quiz are known,” said Stewart. The writ was a test on the Honor System, alma mater, and officers of the student government.Freshman Court’s latest indictments and the freshman attitude, Stewart also emphasized that the present court penalties are not the same that the old Freshman Court of Control used to impose. Rather than allow the violator to “show off” in front of the freshman class, the court now requires that he submit to obscure, menial jobs as penance for his offense.

FRIENDS... There’s nothing like a Coke!

Harry Daniel, Bob Llewellyn, Bill Brown, and Skip Jones. Daniel and Llewellyn will argue for the affirmative, and Brown and Jones for the negative. On Nov. 23, the society will enter two teams in a novice tournament at Wake Forest. Walter McDonald, president of the Eumenean Society, summed up the feelings of both societies in saying, “We plan to get our society off the ground and on its feet. We are going to make it a purposeful organization on the Davidson campus.”

The play is being done by Dick Pitts. He plays Sheridan Whiteside, the male lead. Pitts has had quite a bit of experience in Charlotte’s Little Theatre. He last appeared with that group in 1957 in The Desperate Hours. In fact, in 1942, he played the same role with the Little Theatre that he now has with the Vagabonds. Pitts also served as Entertainments Editor with the Charlotte Observer for 16 years.

Charles J. (Mike) Williams, III, ‘44, of Jacksonville, Fla., (Kuykendall is the father of John Kuykendall, fraternity liaison officer last year). In addition to the football game, there will be a tennis exhibition by both the varsity and freshman teams at 10 p.m. Following it will be a cross-country meet between Davidson and the Citadel. Alumni and friends of the college will register in the Union Saturday morning. Several departments of the college will hold open house for the visitors then and again after the game. In the afternoon, guests will be invited to the homes of the faculty. College buildings which will be open include the Dome Room and new administration offices in Chambers Building, Dana Science Laboratories, John R. Cunningham Fine Arts Center, Eu and Phi Literary Halls, and the College Church.

Following the judging of the fraternity displays at 11 a.m., a luncheon will be held for visitors on the terrace of the Union, or, in case of rain, in the banquet hall of Chambers Building. One of the largest numbers—over 350 families—of visitors in the history of the college is expected to attend.

These teams will be chosen from the following freshmen: James Curl, Mike Harrington, Albert Keiser, Palmer Kirkpatrick, David Meschan, Bill Pierce, John Rostan, Hank Taylor, and Britt Snider. “I believe the freshmen team are going to shape up well, and I hope to have two full varsity teams participating by Dec. 1,” remarked Drake. Prof. Drake has arranged for the teams to enter tournaments at the University of South Carolina, Appalachian State Teachers College in Boone, and Howard University in Birmingham, Ala. These meets will be held before Christmas.

Subscribe Now at Half Price
Distributed from
LOS ANGELES
LONDON
CHICAGO

Objective News Reports
Constructive Background Material
Literary and Entertainment News
Penetrating Editorials

Clip this advertisement and return it with your check or money order to:
The Christian Science Monitor
One Norway St., Boston 15, Mass.
1 Year $11 [6 mos. $5.50]
(This special offer available to college students, faculties, and libraries only when subscribing themselves.)

Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina

Vagabonds Spotlight Set Of Props
BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The Vagabonds will revive an old Egyptian custom come next Tuesday night with the opening of The Man Who Came To Dinner. During the last act, a burial of sorts will be performed on stage, complete with a mummy case and all the trimmings. The “trimmings,” by the way, will mainly consist of the not-so-shriveled mummy played by Mrs. Laura Ann Stevens who will wear a rather “sexy dress,” as Don Stowell, assistant director of dramatics, puts it. The rites will be rather simple and very humorous, according to Stowell. Stowell also hinted that the audience might do well to come equipped with DDT or other pest eradicators due to the fact that a crate of roaches is included in the props. Four penguins will also be needed, but the Vagabonds admit that stuffed ones will be used to keep Peter Stuart Ney IV from getting an inferiority complex.

Just in case you're wondering by now exactly what kind of a thing will go on at the Fine Arts Building from Tuesday through Saturday nights beginning at 8:30 p.m., Stowell’s advice is to come and see. “Actually The Man Who Came To Dinner is a funny, funny three-act play that has had more than its share of success since it was first produced on Broadway in 1939,” Stowell said that he felt that the comedy will be the funniest the Vagabonds have staged in a long time. “We will have an excellent cast, too,” he added, “under the direction of Dr. Goodykoontz.” The Vagabonds will have many of the old standbys back, including Mrs. Louise Hampton and Mrs. Lucy Johnston.

What could prove to be the outstanding character in the play was written by and has been made into a film. It achieved quite a bit of success as a movie as well as a stage play.

Erwin Landsberger, Richardson Scholar from La Serena, Chile, will present a “Chilean Fiesta” at the next meeting of “El Club Espanol.” The program, which will consist of a talk, slides, and records, is tentatively scheduled for 7 p.m., Nov. 6, in the Green Room of the College Union. In the past, only Spanish students who had a high scholastic rating received invitations to this event. This year, however, anyone interested in Hispanic language and culture may attend. All meetings are conducted entirely in Spanish.

THE INS AND OUTS OF COLLECTING SWEATERS (OR) WHY SWEATERS THAT ARE VERY IN ARE VERY “ORLON” acrylic fiber

VERY IN
- washing your sweaters in the nearest washing machine (you can, if they're “Orlon”* or “Orlon Sayelle”**)
- saving on cleaning bills
- digging deep into fun with great sweaters of “Orlon” and “Orlon Sayelle”. They come clean—but quickly—in the wash.
- all-season sweaters—freed from rituals of mothballing and summer storage.
- bulky, good-looking knits that warm without weight—wash without worry.
- classics pure and simple—plus new-fangled knits that know how to keep their shape with no assist from you.
- the newsy textures and tweedy tones of “Orlon” acrylic, “Orlon Sayelle” bi-component acrylic.

VERY OUT
- sending your sweaters home to Mother for fussy hand washing or whatever.
- digging deep into funds for seasonal—and emergency—sweater cleaning.
- mishaps with moths and sweaters that hibernate in a box.
- burdensome sweaters—too heavy in overheated classrooms, too dependent on demanding care.
- the old saggy-baggys like Daddy used to wear—and Mommy has to fuss over!
- almost anything else, almost anything else! (So start collecting sweaters of “Orlon” and “Orlon Sayelle” right now!)

BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
*“Orlon” is Du Pont’s registered trademark for its acrylic fiber.
**“Orlon Sayelle” is Du Pont’s registered trademark for its bi-component acrylic fiber.