PAGE FOUR

Drawings Held To Settle Annual Fight For Rooms
BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“It’s that time of the year again,” sighed Mrs. Moore. “I really hate to see it roll around. From now
on out, it’s nothing but room registration, dance weekend worries, and more registration for summer school.” And as she spoke,
it was evident that Davidson's “Mother” had her worries, not the least of which was where to find space to
put each one of her “children” for next year. And she'll get about 250 more with next year’s incoming freshmen.
Children, that is, not necessarily worries, or at least she hopes.

REMOVALS THREATENED
There is one good thing the frosh have going for them. Mrs. Moore said that she will put them somewhere,
even if she has to move upperclassmen out. “I even had to move upperclassmen out of third floor Watts this
year to make room for the freshmen. I may even have to go to the first floor next year,” she
threatened.

From the traffic in and out of Mrs. Moore's office the past week, it seemed that plenty of people were
worrying about room space for next year. More than a few had been so eager to keep the same room
that they had this year that they rushed in and forgot to bring their yellow cards from the bursar's office.
Or so they said. But Mrs. Moore told them, “Nobody gets a room without a card.”

LADY LUCK
The real worry was for students drawing numbers in order to get a better room for next year. For the
past three days, lady luck has been busy in one way or another for each student who drew the number
that told whether or not he had to climb an extra flight of stairs next year. One rising sophomore looked
at his number 175 and moaned, “Man, I'm already panting from those stairs I know I'll be climbing.”

The drawing began on Tuesday, and right away one student informed his roommate, “We've got number 40, and there are
20 more people ahead of us.” And so it has been all week, with roommates hopefully surveying their situation and
keeping their fingers crossed about where they could put their pin-ups next year.

GOOD LUCK!
Another year’s fate is decided as the anxious hand of the room-seeker reaches into the dormitory grab bag. Mrs. Moore
looks on as the annual trek passes through her office. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

NEW PASTOR ARRIVES
Harper Begins Duties
The Rev. Curtis P. Harper, Jr., began his duties as minister of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church this past Monday.
Harper comes to Davidson from the Chesterbrook Presbyterian Church in Falls Church, Va.

Harper is an alumnus of Davidson College, having graduated with the class of 1950. While here he was a member
of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Upon graduation from Davidson, he attended Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, where he
received his BD degree in 1953. He then entered the navy as a chaplain, volunteering for service in Korea, but
was sent instead to the Philippines. After completing service, Harper was asked to serve at the Chesterbrook Church. He has
been there since 1956. While there, he found time to do graduate work and received a ThM degree from Union
in 1958.

Harper received his call from the church here in January of this year. The Harpers are living in the church
home next to the College Infirmary. Mrs. Harper said that both of them were anxious for students to drop in
whenever they wished. “Curtis and I both want to meet as many students as possible,” she said.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

WINKIN’, BLINKIN’ AND NOD are only three of the many students that have succumbed to the soporific breezes of early
spring. The symptoms of this chronic ailment are heaviness of the eyelids, inability to hold the head in an upright
position and a failure to concentrate on the gems of wisdom uttered each day by professors. It appears that this
is only the incubation period of the sickness that strikes the campus each year, causing those stricken to seek the
fresh air of the out-of-doors and the sunshine provided on the dormitory lawns. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

Vespers Open Houses After
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Burley
Kuykendall
Polley
Causey
Lester
Richey
Cole
Lindsey
Sailstad
Frey
MacCormac
Thies
Gallent
Maloney
Goodykoontz
McGill
Thompson
Ghigo
Mebane
White, H. E.
Hampton
Pinkerton
Winkler

Debate Team Appears In Televised Debate
The Davidson debate team will challenge a team from Washington and Lee University in a television debate over WUNC-TV on
Monday, April 9, Prof. Joe Drake, debate coach, announced today. Participants from Davidson will debate the negative position of the
topic in question—“Resolved: That Capital Punishment Should Be Abolished.” The program is one in a series which the station has
been televising since last fall. Bob Llewellyn, Tom Poston, and Harry Daniels will make up the team. Two members will
debate and the third will give a summary.

This weekend three members of the team are representing Davidson at the Smokey Mountain Tournament at Maryville College in Tennessee.
Skip Jones, Doug Wilkerson, and Conrad Shumadine made the trip.

Elections (Continued From Page One)
will act as secretary-treasurer. Kimbrough and Duvall had 53 and 43 votes respectively.

The race for junior class representatives took three runoffs before Jerry Trammell, Tommy Stafford and Hill Wellford were victorious Thursday.
They edged Dave Olin in the final balloting. Trammell, with 90 votes, led the group and will serve as president
of the class. Stafford and Wellford had 85 and 82 votes.

with ice-cold Coca-Cola!
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina
Copyright 1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANYCOMPANY. COCA-COLA AND CORE ARE registered trademarks trip with Mrs. Grace Lilly, assistant coach. Last week,
at the Eighth Annual Novice Tournament at the University of Pittsburgh, a Davidson team placed sixth in a field of
28 colleges and universities. Ranking at the tournament was in terms of total individual points received. West Point, two teams
from Ohio University, Georgetown of Kentucky, and Richmond were the only teams to outscore Davidson. Shumadine, Ed Boston, Bill Rule,
and Tom Abernethy debated.

Arts Festival (Continued From Page One)
ial artist, and his wife Judy Joy, a sculptor, both from Richmond Professional Institute, will be here April 30 and
May 1. In addition to discussing exploratory techniques in painting and sculpture in informal sessions with students, they will judge
and analyze student works to be exhibited in the Fine Arts Building at the time of their visit. The final
event planned is the presentation of two one-act plays, both written by students now at Davidson, in Hodson Hall on
May 4.

Louise Withers Sloan. A few stammers brought us to the parlor where we assured Miss Sloan that we did not
know how to kindle a fire that quickly in the old trash-filled stove. Wasn't there something about a stamp to
sell? Miss Sloan returned with an armful of boxes and an afternoon full of stories, both of which she began
to open to us. Miss Sloan produced an ancient stamp album, its pages in French and marred with little rectangular
holes where some of its stamps had been, and told how the collection began with this book. It was sold
to her father by Jules Dufour, from Switzerland, while he was a student here in the early Ninety’s. So, thankful
to M. Dufour, we now sorted through a sheaf of old envelopes, patriotic covers, and Civil War stamps. There were
old postmarks of Davidson College, before the days of the Davidson, N. C., P. O. There were some of the
earliest stamped envelopes. And carefully sealed in plastic jackets were the covers of the Confederacy. Some were homemade affairs, and
Miss Sloan unfolded them to show us the addresses on both sides—to conserve paper. At last she passed around, with
a mixture of modesty and triumph, what was once reputed to be the “rarest cover in the U.S.” It was
postmarked Camden, Miss., June 24. Opposite the C.S.A. “Rose Stamp” was a picture of President Lincoln. The picture showed Abe
upside down, hanging to be exact. And it was graced by such endearments as “Abe Lincoln the Destroyer—He once split
rails, now he has split the union,” and “impeached and deposed, Tried and convicted.” Beside Lincoln was the terse remark,
“The penalty for disregarding the constitution.” In the neat hand of the 19th century were the confident bravado of the
young South: “The stars and stripes lie in the dust, Never to rise.” “The Southern star is rising.” “The Stars
and Bars shall forever wave triumphant.” The copyright was claimed by a TM&TC, Box 417, Nashville, Tenn. How much was
the cover worth? Miss Sloan effused; one like it, but without the rose stamp, a rare bird itself, had brought
$80 at a philatelic convention.

Sigma Phi Epsilon Wins District Prize
The Davidson chapter of Sigma Phi Epsilon was awarded the Outstanding Chapter of the Year Award for district five by
the two governors of the fifth district at the Carolina’s Sig Ep Ball in the Hotel Charlotte last Saturday night,
March 17. The fifth district contains the nine SPE chapters in North and South Carolina. These chapters competed among themselves
for the award on the basis of the first semester of this year and last semester of last year. The
award was based on internal chapter operation, such as the use of committees, rushing, and scholarship, and on participation in
campus activities by the individual members of the fraternity and the fraternity as a whole. The winning of this award
now gives the Davidson Sig Ep chapter a chance for winning a national outstanding chapter award. The Davidson Sig Eps
also won the singing contest at the ball under the direction of Doug Heidt.

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATIONS
The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid announced this week that scholarship applications are due by March 24. This includes
renewal of all scholarships and new applications for those who would like to be considered for a Dana Scholarship or
a general scholarship. If additional information is desired, students are advised to come by the Office of Admissions and Financial
Aid in Room 144, Chambers.

FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1962

Ancient Sloan Collection Contains Rare Stamps
We were stopped on the porch by the upstairs “just a minute,” and after about five of them, the door
was opened by one of Davidson's legendary characters, Miss Sloan. “The penalty for disregarding the constitution.” In the neat hand
of the 19th century were the confident bravado of the young South: “The stars and stripes lie in the dust,
Never to rise.” “The Southern star is rising.” “The Stars and Bars shall forever wave triumphant.” The copyright was claimed
by a TM&TC, Box 417, Nashville, Tenn. How much was the cover worth? Miss Sloan effused; one like it, but
without the rose stamp, a rare bird itself, had brought $80 at a philatelic convention.

Vags Play Tonight In Drama Festival
Davidson’s Vagabonds will present Millay's “Aria da Capo” tonight at the second session of the 1962 district one-act Drama Festival
in Hodson Hall. The session begins at 8 p.m. and will also include presentations by East Mecklenburg High School. The
public is invited to attend any or all performances for a cover charge of 25 cents. This afternoon the Vagabonds
initiated the five-session festival which they are hosting this year with Brooke’s “Lithuania.” Participating are troupes from East, South, Myers
Park and A. L. Brown High Schools, Wingate College, and Davidson. Productions will be rated by judges from Chapel Hill
as creditable, excellent or distinguished. The most outstanding will be invited to participate in the 40th anniversary State Drama Festival
to be held at Chapel Hill later this spring. Other Vagabond entries are Samuel Beckett’s “Krapp's Last Tape” (10 a.m.
tomorrow) and Arabel’s “Picnic on a Battlefield” (2:30 p.m. tomorrow).

THE SOCK THAT STAYS UP AS LATE AS YOU DO
ADLER introduces the good-tempered cotton sock. Nothing ever gets it down. With stripes at the top and reinforced with nylon,
it's a white sock that sticks to you the way your little brother used to. Pictured, the Alpine with the
new Shape-Up leg. $1.00. ADLER'S good-tempered Alpine available at Bush Wilson, Ltd. THE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO
