Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1962
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A Challenge ...
In Tuesday chapel a ringing challenge was thrown down to Davidson College—a challenge either to rise with new vitality or to die a quiet death. That challenge cannot, must not echo briefly in the marble halls only to be hushed by the silence that prevails there. For that challenge is not only for Davidson to become a high-quality liberal-arts college; we think it goes far deeper: it calls on Davidson to become what it claims to be—a Church-related liberal-arts college.

We heard Tuesday that the new humanities course was not the giant step into the future that we had dreamed it to be, but was rather the first staggering step out from under the crushing burden of antiquated ways. New steps must be taken, and must be taken soon. Davidson must bridge the gap between the humanities and the sciences. But more important, it must begin the vaster task of trying to bridge the gap between Davidson and the Church.

We think this chasm between the religious and the academic desperately needs sincere and thoughtful attention, and we hope, in the next few weeks, to direct our attention to some aspects of this frustrating problem. Last week, Davidson students and the college spent untold thousands of dollars for a three-day orgy. Yet Sunday night, after that money-bloated spree, down how many rows did the collection plate pass upside-down, empty? Last week the Vagabonds presented a religious drama followed by the first public discussion of real religious issues so far this year. Why did this program arise from a “secular” source? Why have the vespers and chapel programs not been followed by a similar outburst of concern?

We think that there is something badly wrong with a YMCA that has in the past reached the students only twice a year—both times for money, first for itself, later for a “charitable cause” picked from a select group of overseas sufferers. We think there is something awry in a system which has to require “religion” two hours a week—on Thursday mornings and Sunday nights. More important, we think there is something agonizingly wrong with a student body which does not care, which cannot bother even to respond generously to a Christmas appeal for a Gift Fund or to attend a voluntary chapel, let alone actively show Christian love.

There are voices which have moved many moldy things on this campus—voices and personalities which have created a respectable dramatics program and basketball team. These are voices which have not been afraid to criticize and to insist on action. But where has been the voice of the Church? Of the Chaplain’s office? Of the YMCA? Of the various Christian fellowships? Week after week, year after year, we hear nothing.

We call on any student who happens to be able to think, to turn his mind and energies to this appalling tragedy. We call on any student who can still, somehow pray, to cry out to the One True God, Who sees behind the masks and Who split the veil of the Temple in twain, to call on Him to shake the foundations, to break down these garish, empty facades, and that, if any tiny fragment of sincerity and Truth remain, it may shine forth in all its brilliant light. But as for now, we only know that something which once was very dear and sacred to us, has been profaned by petty rules and moldy breath.

JKA

Will The Bright New Look Last?
Will the bright new look last? The self-winding minds of the “Scripts and Pranks” staff seem to have at last struck upon a format for their timely humor that will not alarm even the most prudish campus censor. Enamel-finished magazine paper has given way to newsprint; questionable humor has been replaced by pointed satire. Perhaps the recent appearance of a hybrid progeny from the leaky pens of the “Scripts and Pranks” staff will herald a new era in campus humor.

By any standard The Danasonian was a success. To call it humorous would be an understatement. To term it funny would be insulting its nonchalant satire. Perhaps this new-found interest in creativity will spark original works that can fill the pages previously cluttered by second-hand clippings from the “Orange Peel.” The regular fall issue of “Scripts and Pranks” is in the offing. We are only left to wonder if the fresh humor typified by The Danasonian will be replaced by the disarticulated trivia of previous magazine issues.

Perhaps the success of The Danasonian will express what readers have been asserting for years... with collegiate reading taste as it is, no single campus publication can cater to both humor and literary devotees. The Playmate of the Month with her three pages of vivid, living color has never been included in the Atlantic Monthly. Nor does Robert Frost do much writing for Mad.

It would seem that The Danasonian has inadvertently set the style for its aged parent. If “Scripts and Pranks” is to avoid becoming an anticlimax, it must either confine itself to good humor or scramble from the stones of a disgruntled student body. The Danasonian quipped, “You can’t come home again.” The moorings are broken. So, “Scripts and Pranks”, you know where you can go.

BR

Shaft Story
Last Saturday the sophisticated Davidson gentlemen packed themselves into Chambers Auditorium and saw the climax and resolution of a typical dance weekend story. The IFC had madly sent off its invitations only to be shafted several times. The refusals even took on the excitement of a real personal tragedy when Huey Smith gave it to us at the eleventh hour. The trouble was that, although the three-week plot was exciting enough, most people were dissatisfied with the ending. You could say it insulted our sensibilities. At least that’s what we thought. But you have to go back to the main plot to ask, ‘Why wasn’t the end satisfying?’ Granted the whole affair was unfortunate, how could the end have been avoided?

Money apparently was the chief motivating force in the matter. The groups wanted it and the IFC didn’t have any. At any rate, we are glad to see that the IFC is already cognizant of its role in the above and has started the machinery to see that the shaft story doesn’t get a rerun. We hope the yearly budget proposal will pass and insure us of quality concerts for the rest of the year.

One thing remains to be wary of though. We've courted Dame Rock and Roll twice now and gotten a raw deal. Both times Huey Smith was in the vanguard. Seems like the old saying about being “burnt once” would be applicable here. Even Lester and Earl didn’t do that to us...

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Knox Abernethy
BUSINESS MANAGER
Jim Williams
Associate Editor
Bill Ruth
Editorial Assistant
David Stitt
Assistant Editor
Jeff Wampler
Managing Editors
Bill Pridgen
Charles Ramberg
Sports Editor
Greg Govan
Assignments Editor
Bill Hagen
Feature Editor
Ed Willer
Charles Dibble
Joe McCutchen
Buck Lawrimore
Dan Adams
Joe Howell
Walter MacDonald
Advertising Manager
Charlie Smith
Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane
Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch
News Editor
Photographers
Cartoonists

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Apathetic Students Spurn Opportunity For Y Service
BY JOE HOWELL
Chairman, YMCA Community Service

“Well, what does the Y do anyway? I signed an interest card and nobody ever asked me to do anything.” The reason the Davidson College YMCA does not do anything is the fact that the Davidson student is not willing to do anything for the YMCA. “Sure,” you say, “I'd be glad to help if someone would give me something worthwhile...”

As a response to this popular attitude, an expansion of the community service area was undertaken this year. Arrangements were made to start the following new programs in order to help the community and give the willing student a chance to work for the Y:
1) A new Teen Canteen program for the Negroes in the Davidson community. Six to eight boys could be used.
2) Similar supervision of Negro recreational activities in Mt. Mourne, Cornelius, and Mooresville. Fifteen boys could participate.
3) Assistance in athletics at Torrence Lytle Negro high school. Five boys needed.
4) A work program in order to clean up the Cornelius community center. Fifteen boys.
5) Organizing and coaching Pop Warner football teams in Cornelius, Mooresville, and Mt. Mourne. Twenty boys.

To complement the boys already participating in the YMCA in community service, this expansion would enable over 60 more boys to “do something worthwhile” for the community. One hundred thirty-four letters were sent out to all the boys who signed interest cards in this area. A meeting was held for all those who desired to participate and opportunity was given for those unable to attend the meeting to get in touch with the chairman.

Two boys came to the meeting. No one contacted the chairman. Such is the predicament of the YMCA at Davidson. I do not know of any solution.

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should not be received later than 6 p.m. Wednesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 218, Davidson, N. C.

Goodykoontz For Superb 'Touch Plain Man' Effort
BY BILL TROTTER
Davidsonian Fine Arts Critic

Comedy does not generate itself the way straightdrama does—it takes a special elan to put the illusion of spontaneity across to the audience. The cast of The Man Who Came To Dinner succeeded in doing this to an amazingly consistent extent.

Lee Tells About Korea’s New Look In Education
BY BYOUNG YOUNG LEE
Richardson Scholar

From time immemorial, reverence for scholarship has been traditional in Korea. But popular education has never been in such demand as it is today. Never before has education been attempted on such a scale and so earnestly in Korea as over recent years. Further cause for gratification can be found in the renewed vigor with which the Government and the public are now endeavoring to accelerate the progress of what has long been regarded as the best of government enterprises—education.

That freedom and justice require, above all, popular education is a lesson Koreans have taken to heart during the turbulent post-Liberation days of experimental democracy. The importance of education, therefore, cannot be over-emphasized. A look back over the bitter path our country’s educational system has traveled in the past gives much cause for rejoicing over what it is today. Now in Korea, more children are in school than ever before, thanks to the compulsory attendance regulation provided by the Constitution. Only a decade and a half ago children outside the school vastly outnumbered those who were enrolled, and those who were privileged to go beyond elementary school were in the small minority; today the picture is in reverse. An unprecedented number of men and women are enrolled at the nation’s fine institutes of higher learning, which boast qualified faculties and modern facilities. Out of the ashes and debris left by the Korean War, modern school buildings have risen which offer the aspiring youth their opportunities never dreamed of before.

These accomplishments have been made possible through the work and sacrifice of the Korean people, the continued cooperation and aid of the United Nations after the Civil War, and governmental and private agencies of those individual countries. The phenomenal changes in Korean education to date are not limited only to the physical aspects. For the first time in the history of Korea, a democratic education has been instituted with the concept of Hong-Ik In-Kan, “the greatest service for the benefit of humanity.” Replacing the semi-feudal systems of the past, Korea's modern education today aims at integrating the character of the individual, preparing the individual to live as a useful citizen of a country, to serve in the development of a democratic nation, and to contribute to the ideal of mutual service.

Still, there is much to do. More classrooms are needed to accommodate the increasing numbers of school-age children, more teachers are needed, and school systems and curricula need to be revised to better fit local situations. Accomplishments in improving the nation’s education made by the Government and the public in recent years are encouraging. Following the Student Revolution, much was done to eliminate the causes that hindered the healthy progress of education in the past and to pave the way for future development. Education makes a people easy to lead, but difficult to drive, easy to govern, but impossible to enslave; and susceptible more to mutual understanding than to hostility. Throughout the history of human beings, men’s ignorance of each other's ways and lives has been reflected in prejudice, suspicion, and mistrust—attitudes which have been the basis for differences that have led to war among the peoples in the world. Hence, the importance of education for the welfare and mutual understanding among peoples cannot be too much emphasized. I wish to individuals and organizations, national or international, devoted to education, continued success in their noble endeavor, again recalling the great motto of Davidson: “Alenda lux ubi orta libertas.”

LETTER TO THE EDITOR
No-Question Attitude Results In Sameness

Dear Editor:

Throughout history, man has been seeking answers to the great questions of life. His answers have never been satisfactory, but something within made him keep asking. The quest for the unknown is what made man different from other animals. At Davidson, we are writing a new leaf in history. We are satisfied with ourselves and see no reason to continue raising these questions. We float immobile on an ocean of apathy and indifference. The winds of dissent have been successfully quieted. Voices like those of Ervin Duggan, Dr. Robert Lord, and Charley Reed, are gone and none have appeared to carry on their struggle. Even the freshmen have bowed before powers of conformity and grades. This class, which is usually the source of new ideas and fresh criticism, is following docilely in the footsteps of their elders. We are all comfortably settled in our respectable ways.

Four years of grades, dance weekends, and fraternities, will soon pass; then, marriage, family, a job, and death. It's as simple as that. Why raise questions about life? We're satisfied to live and die without breaking our protective shell with questions. Questions. What good are they? You can't eat them. They don’t help to get a better job. They simply upset people into wondering about purposes, values. But without these questions, the college community withers and dies. Unfortunately, at Davidson, criticism and disagreement are taboo. We rest content on our quiet sea of indifference and don’t like to see the waters stirred. Davidson is faced with a challenge which will decide whether or not she will be able to answer the changing demands of society. Unless we are mature enough to ask ourselves questions and face criticism honestly, our fight is lost.

Bill Ferris

YOU SPEND ALL YOUR TIME LATELY LYING ON TOP OF THIS DOGHOUSE... YOU SEEM TO HAVE NO VITALITY... YOU NEED TO STAND UP! SMILE! OPEN YOUR EYES! SHOW SOME SPIRIT! THERE'S NOTHING WORSE THAN A SARCASTIC DOG!

The play itself is not the kind of thing Dr. Goodykoontz can sink his teeth into in his accustomed manner—it is encumbered with a superfluity of slick, pat lines, and too many unconvincing, typed, small character roles. It is to his credit that he made the audience forget these deficiencies and concentrate on nothing more strenuous than laughing. The cast was larger than is usual for a Vagabond production, and it had obviously been welded into its job well. The Goodykoontz touch was evident in the little flashes of inventiveness, the sudden sparkles of stage effect. I wish there were time and space to credit the majority of the characters—indeed, it would not be wrong to say the weaknesses were more inherent in the lines and the parts than in the delivery and projection. If some members of the cast must be singled out for especially fine jobs, the list must certainly be headed by Dick Pitts, who played a warm and properly gruff Sheridan Whiteside, the highly improbable man-about-life who holds the title role. His portrayal of a difficult and demanding part left little to be desired—when the part called for it, he could sputter and snarl beautifully, and when the part called for a change in tempo, he assumed a sympathetic personality that must have required real work to create from his mostly fortissimo lines.

Fairness to the cast would necessitate going through the entire program. I can only say that their hard work was evident, and that the director’s determination has once again bludgeoned into superb shape, a play which would have been something less than rewarding had the spirit been even a little bit less than it was. A large hand to everyone involved.

By Howell

It’s That Time Again...

(ACP)—Any time is likely to be the silly season on the campus. Just consider some of the collegiate pranks reported by John Armstrong in THE COLLEGIAN, Fresno State College. One warm spring day several years ago a collection of trophies mysteriously disappeared from a showcase in a fraternity house at Ohio State University. Several months later the house received a letter from a Catholic bishop in charge of missions in a Latin-American country, thanking the fraternity for its donation. “Following your instructions,” wrote the bishop, “I have had the trophies melted down, stamped into religious medals and distributed to natives in the hinterlands.” Only then did the brothers realize that they had been taken.

Such activities are firmly entrenched in American folklore. They date back to the Harvard Butter Rebellion of 1766, when students complained, “Behold our butter stinketh and we cannot eat thereof.” The stimulating art of the panty raid dates back to 1899, when 400 pajama-clad University of Wisconsin males broke into Ladies Hall and gayly snitched some 200 unmentionables as coeds screamed in girlish delight. Rebelling against the let’s-have-a-queen-for-everything-under-the-sun craze, several students nominated a nanny goat for prom queen back in the early 1940s. Horrified campus politicians claimed that the goat was not a girl and, therefore, ineligible. But the goat’s supporters produced a veterinarian to attest to her femininity. Finally, the goat was disqualified on the grounds she had not been a resident on the campus the preceding year. Nevertheless, she still ran a strong third in the voting.

Three profs at the University of Southern California have gone on record as almost unconditionally condoning pranks, providing they’re non-destructive. They are Dr. Langdon E. Longstreth, psychology professor; Dr. Thomas E. Lasswell, sociology professor; and Dr. E. K. Nelson, director of the Youth Studies Center. The comments to Karen Gustafson, DAILY TROJAN feature editor, included: “It’s not harmful. I used to engage in that sort of thing and recovered.” And, “You've got to get it out of your system when you're young. Picture a man of 40 in a panty raid.”