Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1962
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Arbitrary Dismissal

In its suggestion to the faculty, the Honor Court has pointed out the central dilemma in the arbitrary dismissal rule for honor offenses—the problem of meting out punishment for offenses in proportion to their seriousness. The court has recommended that, in effect, the minimum punishment for any of the multitudes and degrees, large or small, of sins and near-sins which fall under the “honor” classification should be reduced to automatic suspension from the college with the possibility of return in one year, should the admissions committee agree.

We regret that the court’s request to the faculty does not deal with the problem more adequately. The time for an honest and just appraisal of the arbitrary dismissal rule is long overdue. In stressing the need for “some significant degree of punishment,” the court points out the fact it must surely have learned from judiciary experience—a court cannot function as a fair court if every misdemeanor as well as every felony is punishable only by death. Under such a system, a court can seldom be both honest and fair. If it is honest, it calls any degree of stealing, cheating, or lying an honor offense and thereby condemns the offender to a punishment far out of proportion to the offense. The result is not only a grave personal injustice to the defendant but a weakening of the judiciary, as well.

It is not necessary to labor the point further; its validity and its ramifications are clear to everyone and freely admitted by even the defenders of the system. Yet let anyone suggest that we find a more useful, just, and humane substitute for the arbitrary dismissal rule, and the most pious Christian, even the most ardent S.P.C.A. member, raises a cry of protest: “Scrap the Rule and you'll scrap the System! The Rule makes the System work!!” This just is not so. If there is a concept of honor among Davidson students, it is a deep-rooted acquisition from our heritage and social training, not something we read about in the Student Regulations and adopted about the same time we put on our beanies, registered for freshman classes, and bought our first beer at Hattie’s. If personal honor exists and if its practice is enforced, it is enforced by personal habit, mutual agreement with the other members of Davidson society, and the force of the moral condemnation of that society. The Honor Court and the student body regulations are a very proper part of that social condemnation, but they do not constitute the major part. They are, rather, the official expression of the large body of social opinion. When justice is so arbitrary that it does not reflect this opinion justly its effectiveness is considerably reduced. Criminologists have shown, moreover, that extreme, harsh and arbitrary punishments do not discourage crime but, by their very unreasonableness, encourage wanton and irresponsible disobedience, Law and Justice having lost their meaning and context.

The faculty will do a positive service to both the Davidson Honor System and many individuals whose lives may be unjustly marred if they meet the problem the Honor Court presents practically and justly by eliminating the arbitrary dismissal rule.

L.K.

Elections: A Wrap-Up

Elections for 1962 are over. The student body has chosen approximately 27 officers and representatives for five or six separate organizations. With the exception of the student body president race and one day of student council voting, turnout was light. The flurry of interest in THE DAVIDSONIAN editorship died down by election day.

Now is the time to suggest improvements in elections procedures, which have been only slightly changed in several years. Since elections rules were removed from the student body constitution last year, laxity and vagueness have crept into Elections Board practices. There was no systematic overhaul of procedure, as might have been anticipated last year. An elections board, meeting for the first time about a week before elections, cannot be expected to come up with answers to all problems: should the ballot boxes remain locked until 1 p.m.? (We feel they certainly should be.) How best to keep track of who has voted? (The list should be checked off by a member of the elections board.) Where should the polls be located? (Many feel that polls in front of the dorms or even in the P.O. would draw more voters.)

See No Evil?

Will it be shown at Davidson or not? That has been the question this week about attempts to bring the Spanish film “Viridiana” to campus in its first U.S. showing outside New York. But more important than scoring a premier is the matter of whether the film will be allowed at all. Presently, the word is no; this is highly regrettable. The campus film program has moved forward tremendously this year, enabling the community to see excellent foreign and domestic films of an artistic as well as thought-provoking nature. “Viridiana,” from all we can read, is another film of this calibre and we have an opportunity to show it here probably months before it would otherwise be available in this area. Both the film committee and the persons presently vetoing the film express a sincere interest in showing it here. But they have been working at cross purposes. The snag is a reluctance to show the film, because of its controversial nature, unless the manner of presentation renders it an “educational” experience. A panel is desired to discuss the movie and its implications. We find no fault with that, but we do wonder if this should be a prerequisite for showing a film. Certainly all viewers should not be required to attend such a discussion. Why must we justify bringing a widely acclaimed film to campus, just because it sets forth ideas we don’t fully embrace?

Only hard feelings and misunderstandings are being bred by the present conflict. Both sides should get together; they both want the film—so do we. Let's order it. Then, since intelligent debate should always be welcome, let the movie stir ideas and invite outsiders to participate in the voluntary discussion. But let’s not be afraid to show a controversial movie or try to keep it from being shown.

David Jordan
Gene Adcock

Photographer
Joe McCutchen

Cartoonists
Doug Ackerman
Joe Howell
Dan Adams

Advertising Manager
Dave Calhoun

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Legion Of Davidson Decency

By Adams

Bennett’s Book Expresses

Music Professor Hits Salient Dissonant Note

BY WALTER McDONALD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Underachievement was given a new meaning in Tuesday’s chapel period. Professor Robert S. Lord of the Music Department expressed his ideas concerning the liberal education offered in “the best men’s school” in the South.

REVISION NEEDED

First and foremost, there is a need for a drastic revision of the curriculum. Davidson is not generally known outside the South and its liberal arts curriculum is weak compared to schools whose standards it would like to emulate. Dr. Lord maintained that the purpose of the core requirements is to ensure that students be exposed to a wide variety of courses, before specializing in any particular field. He further stated that required subjects should, in nearly all cases, be one semester courses with the purpose of stimulating the student by opening new fields of understanding to him.

One semester courses would give the student a better chance to work in such areas as economics, fine arts, music, philosophy, political science, psychology, and sociology; areas to which many Davidson students are never exposed because there are too many two-semester courses. If Davidson is to succeed in “preparing its graduates not simply for making a living, but for living more abundantly,” then changes must be introduced.

VISITING COMMITTEE

A committee of twelve to sixteen visiting scholars representing all the fields of liberal arts should be invited to visit Davidson, to analyze its problems, and then present a written report stating specific methods for their improvements. Such a report should be made available for all to study. The initial step has been taken and positively received by the student body; now it is up to the administration and faculty to continue this movement that will bring Davidson nearer to “the best college of its kind in the nation.”

One-Act Plays Effectively Diverted With Diversity

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Subjectivism reigned last Wednesday night at Hodson Hall as the Vagabonds presented an “evening of diverse drama.” Ranging from the avant-garde of Beckett to the rather prosaic Rupert Brooke, the four one-act plays were without exception well staged and excellently performed. Rather than being so diverse as the program might indicate, the evening was rather heavily salted with the modern tragic, and there was not a true comedy in the lot.

Legislative Delegation Was Minority Voice

BY AL EDGAR
Delegate To SSL

A few weekends ago, while Josh White was somewhere up in West Virginia, seven Davidsonians (Bob Cordle, Butch Zimmerman, Tony Diaz, Larry Leafer, Chester Davis, and Al Edgar) traveled to Raleigh for an annual event known as the State Student Legislature ofNorth Carolina. All the members of this legislature, which meets in the State Capitol building, are students from various colleges throughout the state.

EXPERIENCE VALUABLE

The idea is to simulate as much as possible the actual workings of a real grown-up legislature. Each school submits a bill which is debated and voted upon by both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Any differences in the bills as they are passed by each house are ironed out by a conference committee at the end of the legislature. The final results in the way of legislation are meaningless. There is some value, however, in the debating and political maneuvering experience gained in producing these results.

Most of the bills introduced were of national and international significance. One bill would have applied a minimum wage to migratory agricultural workers. Another would have prevented federal funds from being used for fallout shelters. A third would establish a super N.A.T.O. and require that the U.S. enter the Common Market. There was also the standard plea for the abolition of capital punishment. As might be expected, most of the colored schools concentrated on civil rights-type legislation. Among the most interesting of these was a proposal that would relieve private institutions (such as Davidson) of their state tax exemption unless integration were carried out forthwith.

In general, the Davidson delegation was a small but vocal minority in opposition to most of the measures proposed. This was done not so much because of any particular ideological views held by the delegation, but just for the sake of creating a little argument. It seemed for a while that the “august” body was just going to solemnly ratify all that stuff.

WORK LAW PASSED

When it came time to present our own bill, which would establish the right to work on a national scale, we naturally did not expect the utmost sympathy. All the more so, since enlightened young college students are supposed to know better than to have such horrible, reactionary ideas as not requiring a worker to join a labor union before he takes a job. However, this came at the end of a session and everyone was tired out. It passed. The next day the legislature tried to repeal it, but to no avail.

The State Student Legislature is definitely a worthwhile experience for all those who either aspire to being a legislator or want to know how we get some of our messed-up laws.

But the somewhat less than a hundred persons who saw the plays got much more than 50c worth of entertainment. Arrabal’s Picnic on the Battlefield was the first presentation. The cast, except for Mrs. Lucy Johnston, was practically inexperienced, and yet managed to hold the play together well. Lithuania by Rupert Brooke was a dripping melodrama of crippled fratricide. The talent of its actors far outstripped the calibre of the play. Edna St. Vincent Millay’s Aria da Capo was a gem; clear, concise, and highly polished. The story of tragedy within a farce, it was beautifully done with splendid performances by all five actors. Although Aria raised the number of deaths on stage and off to seven with its double murder, there was not a feeling of “too much.” It was evident that the audience was captured by the simple and pathetic demise of the shepherds, presided over by the heavy-handed masque of tragedy. And the faultless farce of Pierrot and Columbine added the precise touch of emphasis.

But if Aria was the evening’s gem, Samuel Beckett's Krapp’s Last Tape was its masterpiece. Smith McKeithen did a brilliant job in the difficult monologue, somehow managing to take the audience through the gamut of emotions. The old figure of Krapp, although he provoked on occasion the same uncomfortable laugh, erased the stage barrier. The audience laughed and then asked themselves why, and so were drawn up to participation in the action. One had the uneasy feeling of having his own self in the spotlight for scrutiny, and the personality of Krapp was merely the catalyst. A fine evening, with few if any exceptions, capped by an intriguing and involving performance.

Sense Of Hope For Peace

BY DR. MAX E. POLLEY
Bible Department

Bennett, Dean of the Faculty at Union Theological Seminary in New York, has rendered a real service to the American people in his book Christianity and Communism Today. At a time when our attention is being attracted to the extremists upon both the left and the right, it is illuminating to read a sober and realistic appraisal of the major issue which divides our world. This is not a difficult book to read. It is well outlined and clearly expressed. But on the other hand, it must be read with great care to do justice to Dr. Bennett's analysis of Christianity and Communism. He refuses to yield to the temptation of oversimplification in order to stimulate. There is more light than there is fire in this book.

The merits and defects of both Christianity and Communism are honestly discussed. Bennett refuses to equate Christianity with Capitalism or Democracy or America; but he does acknowledge that Christianity has flourished in such an environment. He even points out specific advantages found in Capitalism which are in harmony with Christian principles. He honestly discusses the virtues of the Communist ideology; but he also attacks the barbarous means by which this is to be accomplished. Slave labor camps, terrorist tactics, and the dictatorship of the proletariat are all indications of the failure of Communism to treat human beings with dignity.

There is a real sense of hope in this book. Dr. Bennett sees changes within the Soviet Union that are encouraging. He calls us to open lines of communication with Russia that will move the world toward peaceful co-existence. He maintains anything short of this would be suicidal. But there is also a challenge hurled at the Christian reader. Is the Communist attack upon Christianity really unjustified? Has not the Christian church failed to live up to its ideals of ministering to the needs of all men? Has it not too often become a supporter of the status quo and identified its message with that of the ideals of the upper class? There is too much truth in this criticism to regard it as merely Communist propaganda. Granted that there is a radical difference between these two rival systems, especially concerning their analysis of human nature, is it not also true that we share the one ideal of concern for the betterment of the material conditions of men? Dr. Bennett calls Christianity to meet the challenge of Communism, to sever itself from unholy alliances with the privileged groups, and to meet the needs of those who are struggling for social justice.

This is truly a splendid book. It is calculated to disturb the reader. But it will also enlighten him that he might be better able to understand conflicting points of view on this subject. We have had Mr. Fulton Lewis III, Representatives Rivers and Judd, and Secretary of State Dean Rusk on the campus this year. That these speakers presented different approaches to the Communist threat should have been obvious to everyone. If it was not, a reading of Dr. Bennett’s book will help clarify the issues.

National Spirit Unites S. American Youth

BY TONY DIAZ

Historically, as in Spain, the Latin American student is surrounded with a kind of romantic halo. His role has been audacious and idealistic. He is always challenging tyranny and autocracy, championing the ideals of liberty, democracy, and social justice. In recent Latin American history, the students have been in the vanguard of active groups working to undermine dictators. For this, the community responds to the students with gratitude, even affection.

INFLUENCE ACADEMICS

As in Spanish Universities from which Latin American Universities are descended, the students have a ballot and are an important voice in making decisions affecting University policy. Student leaders help determine the University stand on public policy. Today, students feel an obligation to participate actively in the national life of their country, aware that the next five years will determine the kind of nation in which they will live. But students show little sense of having any vested interest in the rapidly changing society of which they are a part. The result is a flamboyant, passionate, partially informed student body eager to assert itself in the national life.

POLITICAL SPECTRUM

Politically, the students range from hard-line international Communists to those favoring military dictatorship. There are nationalistic Marxists and what we might term leftist, democratic socialists. There are intellectual democrats who would favor a strongly centralized and guided democracy, with a mixed economic system of public and private enterprise. A very dominant and loud voice in the Latin American Universities, however, is the Christian Democratic party (in Panama) or that which would favor liberal Catholic social thought, it being the one which dominates the scene.

A great deal of variety appears among the students when it comes to their operation to society. This is so because many come from economically middle-class families which yet have to develop any common attitude toward society. The strongest unifying factor among students may be summed up by the slogan “My Country First.” Nationalism, a belief in the primacy of one’s country, permeates the student's thinking on all political, social, and economic issues. In the twentieth century, Latin American students feel constricted by the economic realities of countries, primarily producers of raw materials in a world that is highly industrialized.

WANT CHANGE

The students are torn by their political tradition of the strongman tyrant coupled with an unfocused intellectual bent toward democracy, and they are held down by the fairly closed, hierarchical social structure of their recent colonial past. They see the need for concerted action and immediate change.

Summing up, the University in Latin America is not only a medium through which our young people receive their professional training and education, but also through which they study questions related to their interests and necessities of the nation. It is for this reason that an American student, in my opinion, will find the University the optimal place in which to study a Latin American country. There, he can contact all levels of society and reach all businesses and professions.

PEANUTS

I CAN'T KEEP THIS KITE UP IN THE AIR

WHY NOT LEAVE IT ON THE GROUND?

ACTUALLY, IT LOOKS KIND OF NICE LYING THERE... THE RED COLOR MAKES A NICE CONTRAST.

IT PROBABLY WOULDN'T LOOK HALF AS GOOD UP THERE AGAINST THAT PALE BLUE SKY... I ACTUALLY THINK THAT THIS GOES BEST