THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 1962

Big Days In THE DAVIDSONIAN Life Of Davidson

ONLY A CINDERED SHELL remained of the once proud Chambers Building after that tragic day in 1921. The destructive blaze was the biggest news story of the '20s.

A BIG DAY FOR AN OLD EDITOR, who made good and moved up to the president’s chair. In April, 1958, D. Grier Martin, “Our Man,” proudly took the presidential oath from Dr. J. McDowell Richards, another old DAVIDSONIAN editor who made good.

Long Debate Leaves Race Issue Hanging

The decision of the Supreme Court in 1954 and the endorsement of it soon after by the General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church precipitated a discussion of the integration of Davidson which has continued in THE DAVIDSONIAN to the present.

A student poll in 1954 revealed that the student body (with 52 percent expressing an opinion) was evenly divided on the integration issue. THE DAVIDSONIAN sponsored a symposium on the integration of Davidson and, in the same issue, favored compliance with the policy of the General Assembly in an editorial: “The end of segregation is imminent, what can we do to facilitate adjustment?”

NATIONAL SCENE

Later editions of THE DAVIDSONIAN remained silent on the integration problem at Davidson, preferring to speak to the national scene: “It may require years for the South to accept the Court's ruling, but such acceptance will come.”

The “Trustee Special” of THE DAVIDSONIAN in February of 1960 put the integration problem forthrightly in the laps of the trustees. Results were presented of a highly questionable student poll which revealed 297 absolutely against integration and 121 for integration at the earliest possible time. All told, 303 students thought that the way should be made clear for integration now or in the future.

PALL OF SILENCE

An editorial on integration criticized the lack of any attempt to justify the trustees’ statement that “it is not in the best interests of Davidson College to admit Negroes at this time.” The editor maintained that in the U.S. He hit the “pall of silence” that hung over both faculty and trustees.

SICKNESS

The next week, as one student decried the use of the paper for pure propaganda purposes, J. McDowell Richards, chairman of the trustees, commented on the Board’s complete lack of action. “This is not a sign of health, but of sickness.”

In February 1961 the issue was reopened as the trustees’ meeting approached. “Student Body President Henry Shue petitioned the board to let him present a statement asking them to remove the discriminatory aspect of the admissions policy. Shue called for Davidson to take the lead in the South as a Christian institution.

CONGOLESE

Later that month the trustees voted to accept three Congolese students in deference to an inquiry by the Board of World Missions. No new action was taken at that time on the integration question. A committee, that is still in existence, was formed by President Martin to deal with the problems that would be involved. That May it was announced that Davidson would not be sent any African students after all. The Board of World Missions felt that the language difficulties would be too much for the earmarked three and so sent them to Switzerland to study. The board stated that it still planned to send us one if one was found they considered qualified.

This year, after considering the positive polled opinions of the faculty and the students, the trustees set up a committee to study the "best interests" involved in integrating Davidson. The decision of Agnes Scott to end racial barriers has been considered by many as a major breakthrough in the realm of private schools in the South.

EARLY ROOTS

Today's knotty issue of integration at Davidson began as a vague feeling that perhaps there was a Negro problem in the South. The Reverend J. Little, as part of a Southeastern speaking tour, was heard in 1918 urging the students to set up a study group. After he left, 70 new applications were made to an existing study program on campus, swelling the number of sociological research workers to 95. Little was heard from this group. For 20 years no significant news on the problem appeared in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

SNAPPING BACK SPIRITEDLY with a “Million Dollar Campaign,” the college went to work to rebuild an even finer Chambers. It was a proud day in 1928 when the new cornerstone was set in place.

THE DAY THAT NEVER WAS! — For months, the college had prepared for the pageantry of a centennial celebration, in rehearsal above, but the traditional rains came with no respect for the occasion they marred in 1937. The pageant was not rescheduled.

PAGE THREE

Martin For President - Did Davidsonian Help?

BY LAURENS WALKER Editor 1958-59

Jim Batten, a tall, lanky boy from the peanut fields of southeastern Virginia, stepped out of the doorway of Duke dormitory. “Where you going?” Jim called. “To PT,” I said. “Better cut. Slick John’s just resigned. We're going to do an extra.”

Thus my Davidson generation, THE DAVIDSONIAN, and the college entered a period of change and transition that just now seems to be ending. The resignation of President John Rood Cunningham surprised almost everyone—even THE DAVIDSONIAN. There was no better explanation than the obvious. Dr. Cunningham, referred to, though respectfully, by students as either “Slick John” or “St. John the Divine,” had simply decided he had accomplished what he set out to do at Davidson. He was ready to move on.

The extra was produced under the leadership of editor Batten though, as I remember, almost everyone on campus knew about the resignation before we could get the late Mr. F. Our printer Broyles used the large type kept for grocery ads to form the banner head, “CUNNINGHAM RESIGNS.”

As I look back now—just five years later—the resignation of Dr. Cunningham seems even more of a turning point than it did at the time. He had laid a foundation. He had either built or planned enough physical plant to take care of Davidson's needs for many years. He had more than doubled the college’s endowment. But the step toward what was then called “Southern predominance and national eminence in the field of liberal arts education” was still to be taken.

FOUR LIVING DAVIDSON PRESIDENTS GATHERED on an historic day in 1941 for the inauguration of Dr. John R. Cunningham. Posing with him on this rare occasion were Walter L. Lingle (1929-41), W. J. Martin (1912-29), and Henry Louis Smith (1901-12).

In 1938 an editorial asked the football band to be more discreet in vaulting the musical barrier between the races. The position of a Negro in the band was not contested as long as he wore his “own ragged clothing,” but when he appeared at a game wearing part of the college uniform several students complained.

GIFT FUND

In deference to the conservative majority, the band was asked to remedy this situation. A letter to the editor the next week suggested a substitution of the words “narrow-minded” for “conservative.”

The students and the YMCA took action to better the community situation in 1939 when the Gift Fund was earmarked for the building of a colored community center. The “Y” set up a Department of Colored Work which was active in directing and improving this center. In 1948, terming the previous nine years of work a “major success,”the center was turned over to a Negro Board of Control. Late in 1951, a student defending an O.D.K. program mentioned that a Negro probably wouldn't be a happy person here since he would have little or no social life. He said that the Negro would come here because he believed in a cause greater than himself. The real question posed was whether we had the right to exclude another human being from our educational process.

MORE IMPORTANT ISSUES
A reply said that we should drop this matter and discuss more important issues since it was “repugnant to the common tenet.” The writer further reasoned that the exclusion idea was ridiculous since a private institution by its very nature excludes. The editorial flavor shifted a little in November of 1953 when a columnist maintained that the South could solve its own segregation problem if given a chance by the Supreme Court.

WESTERN AUTO ASSOCIATE STORE
A. D. CANTRELL, Owner
Davidson, North Carolina
WESTERN UNION
GREYHOUND
TW 2-6381

For a while, there was a question whether such a step would ever be taken. Basically, it was the deciding of this question that THE DAVIDSONIAN of my era attempted to report and interpret. Government at Davidson after the Cunningham resignation was mostly by committee. Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, acting president, very reasonably avoided making any basic decision. But THE DAVIDSONIAN wondered out loud several times if anyone was making any decisions at all. Perhaps such comment was not wise. It was a frustrating time for everyone who wanted to “get moving again.” Meanwhile, the trustees’ president-hunting committee looked and looked. DAVIDSONIAN reporters asked and asked. There were no answers. No new president was found as the months passed.

The question we were reporting, however, involved much more than just the new president. Any real step toward greatness had to begin with curriculum, faculty, salaries, library, admission standards, fraternity policy. We wrote about these things as we could to those who could make more effective and, we hoped, progressive decisions. It would be misleading, however, to paint a picture of a deadly serious group producing a deadly serious paper each week. There was a lot of fun involved. Let it never be said that Hattie didn’t do a good business on Wednesday nights after the paper was wrapped up.

I think some mention is fitting, DAVIDSONIAN of that time, of the individuals who wrote it. By and large, they were a talented, intelligent, and remarkably dedicated group. There are too many to include all, but the names of Bill Patton, Charles Chastain, John Trask, Ed Armfield, Dick Smith, Frog Cole, Addison Bross, George Ramsey, Lloyd Chapin, Frank Bloodworth, and Dave Jordan deserve noting.

But the story goes on. Late in 1957, in typical fashion, THE DAVIDSONIAN decided if the trustees could not find a president for the college, it could. So we took a stand. No names were used, but by careful fact choosing we made it clear who the “four leaf clover” was we felt the trustees could find “in the campus grass.” Typically, he was one of our kind—an ex-editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. He had always been a friend of the paper and a most cooperative news source—as well as a man of recognized competence and ability. All acknowledged we had picked something of a dark horse.

The trustees’ Cadillacs pulled onto the campus in May of 1958, and with them came word that a choice would be made. We got set for an extra warning Mr. Broyles to have the grocery-type ready again. On the day of the meeting, there was still doubt. We wrote stories about Our Man and worried that we might lose the gamble in the last hour. Then came the break. Bill Patton, whose hearing ability was always a great asset to the paper, happened to enter a door in Chambers building just a step behind Our Man and a prosperous-looking trustee. Said Our Man: “We'll need twenty million.” Said the trustee: “That's a helluva lot of money.” We knew we were in. That afternoon the announcement was officially made. D. Grier Martin was to be the next president of Davidson College. In his first interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN—given about a minute after the announcement, he said, “I didn’t believe them when they told me.” We managed to get two pages of copy out of that statement and by nightfall a special issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN was in the dorms, Mr. Broyles was repairing his press, and the staff—exhausted—was at Hattie’s.

The decision for greatness—though not immediately apparent I believe, made that day was. All was, of course, not entirely sweetness and light. THE DAVIDSONIAN squawked, kicked, prodded, and complained. And Our Man had several serious talks thereafter with His Boys on the subject of a responsible college press. The turn was made, though. The recent reforms in curriculum, faculty improvements, admission standards, and the spectacle of a Secretary of State shooting basketball in the gym attest, in part, to the fact that the necessary decision has been made. I like to think THE DAVIDSONIAN had a part in it.

Elections Machinery Grows From Frauds
The election of a DAVIDSONIAN editor in 1939 precipitated the controversy which led to the formation of the still-nebulous Elections Board. When rumors of a combine began to sweep the campus, the Student Council held two trials. One was secret, and the results were not divulged. But the results of the second trial were enough to shake many students’ faith in the council. Even though opinion was divided in the council, three fraternities were convicted, yet not punished in any way.

TRIES SWITCH
The council tried to pull a switch in election procedure and throw the election to the editorial staff of the paper. But the student body refused to vote for the switch, and many expressed disgust that the council would try to change the voting procedure during an election. Many students were angry that people were hurt by trials that in the end did not amount to anything.

The next year (1940) the Student Council finally straightened out the mess that had been made in the previous election. It set up, after an amendment was adopted to the Student Body Constitution to allow it to do so, the Elections Board that we have today. It was the duty of the board to set up election rules, define terms used in them so that everyone would know, for instance, what a combine was and to run the elections.

STEAL BALLOTS
The same year the Elections Board was created, another amendment concerning elections was added to the constitution. Up until that year, students voted in chapel and then passed their votes down the aisle. It is a reported fact that some men would actually put ballots in their pockets and walk off with them if they did not happen to like the name on the ballot. Thus “stealing” of ballots was eliminated that year, as well as the absentee voting in which a friend would vote for another if he cut chapel.