COURT REQUESTS NEW POWER (See Page Two) The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College (See Page Three)
VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1962 NUMBER TWENTY

March 26-27 Reinstated Book-of-the-Year Date

March 26-27 has been reset as the date for the Book-of-the-Year program, when Dr. John C. Bennett will present his
book "Christianity and Communism Today." The College Union is selling paperback copies of the new edition at $1.25. Bennett arrives
on campus Monday, March 27 and will be the guest of honor at a banquet at the Union. At 8
p.m., Bennett will speak in Chambers Auditorium, where a panel will discuss the book after Bennett's presentation. On Tuesday, Bennett
will visit several classes and will speak in assembly. He will talk with students at a coffee hour after assembly.

Joint Concert Set For Monday Night

The Agnes Scott Glee Club will present a joint concert with the Davidson Male Chorus, Monday, March 19, at 8:15
p.m. in Hodson Hall. There is no admission charge. The Agnes Scott group, under the direction of Roxie Hagopian, will
be heard in works by Handel, Purcell, Berlin, and Gershwin. There will also be a medley of selections by Hasler,
a Jewish chant arranged by Chajes, and two choruses from Randall Thompson's “The Testament of Freedom.”

Lowry Reid announced that the date has been moved back because of Bennett's schedule conflict. The 1962 edition of "Christianity
and Communism Today" was published early this month and is a revision of Bennett’s widely acclaimed "Christianity and Communism." Reid
also named Sidney Moore as chairman of book sales and Algie Guess as publicity chairman. Hal Todd is in charge
of hospitality. Final selection of the panel will be announced next week, but Reid hopes to have “three or four
people fairly well known and outspoken on the problem of Communism.”

Renovate The IFC? Vote Slated Monday

A semi-formal dance will lead off the Spring Frolics activities Friday night, April 27. Final contracting of entertainers for the
final dance weekend of the year has not yet been completed. “The IFC is not knuckling under to criticism of
the informal Midwinters dance,” IFC president Bob Waugh said today. “The figure at the semi-formal Friday night dance of Spring
Frolics will be an opportunity to present the new IFC and fraternity sweethearts.”

IFC WILL VOTE

The 12 IFC fraternity representatives will vote in next Monday night’s meeting on the revisions to the IFC constitution discussed
by Waugh in assembly last Monday morning. A 3/4 majority of the representatives can effect the changes, whose basic purpose
as stated by Waugh is “to show the faculty that we are willing and capable of self-control.” The revisions were
discussed in individual fraternity chapter meetings last night. One revision would give each of the fraternity presidents a non-voting advisory
seat on the IFC, with voting rights in the absence of his fraternity’s representative. A second will designate the IFC
as the sole interfraternity body with the purpose of liaison between the administration and the fraternities. A final change will
require reporting of all IFC judicial action to the Fraternity Liaison Officer in the administration.

IFC NEWSLETTER SOON

An IFC newsletter will be published around April 14. Johnny Rogers will edit the newsletter, copies of which will be
sent to members of the Board of Trustees, the faculty, the administration, and each of the alumni. The newsletter will
include a statement by each fraternity covering some phase of its activities during the year. Approximately 5,000 copies will be
published.

Debaters Place 4th At Contest

With eight wins and six defeats, the varsity debate team tied for fourth place in a field of 12 teams
at the 29th annual South Atlantic Forensic Tournament at Lenoir-Rhyne College last weekend. The squad, composed of Bill Brown, Harry
Daniel, Skip Jones, Bob Liewellyn, Tom Poston, and Doug Wilkerson, defeated Navy, Duke, Carson-Newman, and High Point once and Lenoir-Rhyne
and William and Mary twice. Lenoir-Rhyne won the tournament and Navy was second. Tom Abernathy, Ed Postian, Bill Rule, and
Conrad Shumadine left today to compete in the eighth annual Spring Novice Tournament at the University of Pittsburgh. Jones, Shumadine,
and Wilkerson will participate in the Smokey Mountain Forensic tournament at Maryville College in Maryville, Tennessee March 23-24. Brown, Jones,
Llewellyn, and Poston, varsity debaters, have been issued bids to Tau Kappa Alpha, Honorary Forensic Society. The four have participated
in tournaments at Wake Forest, Appalachian State Teachers College, Duke, and Lenoir-Rhyne. Initiation will take place at an annual banquet
in early May and will be headed by Dr. Joe Wetherby of the Duke University English department. Wetherby is the
Regional Governor of TKA. With this initiation, the Davidson chapter will become officially reactivated after three years of paper existence.
Requirements for initiation include three semesters of inter-collegiate debate and a class standing in the upper 35 percent. TKA has
100 chapters throughout the nation. Twenty-one belong in the southern region, among them Duke, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee, William and Mary,
L.S.U., Miami, Florida, Florida State, and Birmingham Southern.

The Publications Board has announced David Dillard and Bill Hagen as its nominees for editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN for 1962-63.
The candidates’ platforms appear elsewhere on this page. Dillard, a French major, has been secretary of Eumenean Literary Society, is
in the Male Chorus, and is a C. R. Harding Scholar. He was editor of his high school newspaper and
as a freshman and sophomore was a news and feature reporter for THE DAVIDSONIAN. An English major, Hagen is presently
a managing editor of the campus newspaper. He has previously served as assignments editor and was on the swimming team
for two years. He is a member of Pi Kappa Phi Social fraternity.

VOTE MONDAY

The election for the editorship is scheduled for Monday. A possible change in the schedule may be effected by the
Student Council. The council has met three times this past week to discuss the question of nominating and voting procedures
for publications heads. The problem arose when some students attempted to place a third candidate in nomination for the newspaper
post. Previously, the Publications Board, which is constitutionally empowered to determine all nominations for editorships, had considered the individual in
question and declined to place him before the student body as a nominee. The board approves or rejects nominations for
the various publications’ editors after discussion of the qualifications of the individuals.

COUNCIL DEBATES

The council is now debating the constitutional issues involved in response to a request to allow write-in candidates, which have
previously been illegal. When the student body approved a new constitution last year, it gave the Publications Board its own
constitution, as it also did the YMCA. Both groups were to have sole determination of nominations in their areas. All
editorial nominations must have the approval of the Board, which is composed of the editors (Continued On Page Four)

Four Davidson Seniors Win Wilson Fellowships

Four Davidson seniors have been announced as winners of Woodrow Wilson Fellowships—Lee Kirby, Tom Patrick, Harrison Wellford, and Perrin Wright.
This gave Davidson a fourth place among colleges and universities in this region with respect to the number of fellowship
winners. Lee Kirby, associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, will study English literature in graduate school. Kirby is taking English Honors
at Davidson and studied abroad during his junior year at the Free University of Berlin.

WELLFORD DECLINES

Tom Patrick, studying in History Honors and majoring in economics, will do graduate work in economics. Patrick is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa, vice president of APO service fraternity, and the S-2,3 staff officer for the Cadet Corps. Harrison
Wellford has already accepted a Marshall Scholarship to study history at Cambridge and hence will receive an honorary Woodrow Wilson
Fellowship. Wellford is Chairman of the Honor Court and was on the varsity Soccer team. He is a Phi Bete,
a member of ODK, and is taking History Honors. Perrin Wright graduated in 1960 as a music major but returned
to Davidson another year to major in mathematics. Wright is a Phi Bete and will do graduate study in math.

PAYS TUITION PLUS

About 70 Woodrow Wilson Fellowships were granted in Davidson's region which includes coastal states from North Carolina to Delaware. Davidson
had the most winners of any college in the region. Duke University placed first with 11 winners, University of North
Carolina second, University of Virginia third, and Davidson fourth. Last year eight Davidsonians won Woodrow Wilson Fellowships. These fellowships pay
complete tuition and $1,500 extra expenses for one year of graduate study anywhere in the U.S. or Canada. One requirement
is that candidates must consider seriously college teaching as a profession. Over 1,000 of these fellowships are awarded yearly.

Dillard Asks Support For New Objectivity

I want New Objectivity in THE DAVIDSONIAN—a new fairness, a new honesty in approaching complex issues. The fiftieth anniversary year
seems a good time for a return to conscious intellectualism. Admittedly, it is human nature for a college paper to
get carried away.With its pet peeves, to become blind to the importance of existing public opinion, to be exclusively concerned
with what's wrong, never with what may be right. But a responsibly edited DAVIDSONIAN should be able to transcend its
own bias—at least most of the time. Here are several particular proposals aimed at fostering a new objectivity in THE
DAVIDSONIAN. I want to get “editorializing” out of the news stories. This is a basic rule of any honest journalism—present
facts as facts even if they do not reinforce what's on the editorial page. If THE DAVIDSONIAN is to be
more than a one-sided piece of yellow pressmanship, it cannot ignore the majority or minority voices of dissent on campus—editorializing
must move back to the editorial page. I want to re-instate a week-to-week column on the editorial page—preferably by students
staff—concerned with the continuing debate on the social, economic, and political differences. Give the space one week to a “conservative,”
the next to a “liberal,” and finally to a moderate who might agree with neither viewpoint or with particulars of
both. I want to resurrect the feature story from the janitor’s closet and mud. There are other equally important personalities
and phenomena on campus and coming to it. Notice the visits last week of John Wotlinger, chairman of the American
committee on Fulbright grants for study abroad, and of Jean Langlais, the internationally influential organist and composer. Such subjects as
these are worth the best efforts of our feature writers. Regarding an editorial bias on political questions, my position would
properly be called “moderate.” Briefly, I would define the state as a living organism which grows by evolution—not revolution. Reform
to meet new needs is carried most enduringly by (Continued On Page Four).

Group Will Attend YMCA Conclave

The Davidson College YMCA will be among the organizations represented at the Southern Area Student Council of YMCAs annual conference
held at Gatlinburg, Tenn., March 31-April 1. The conference agenda includes elections and a general business session at which delegates
from 63 southern colleges and universities will be present. The Davidson YMCA Cabinet has recommended Jim Glenn to the nominating
committee as a possible candidate for president. Eleven students and one adult delegate from Davidson will be on hand to
back Glenn should he be accepted as a candidate. Nominations will not be announced until conference time. The Southern Area
Council is a branch of the National Council of YMCAs, whose purpose is to make major policy decisions and to
serve as a means for the transfer of ideas between student members. To this end, the Council publishes reports from
all the member organizations and sponsors various camps and conferences throughout the year.

David Dillard, Bill Hagen Compete For Editor’s Chair

Hagen: Student Views Must Gain Influence

Under my editorship, THE DAVIDSONIAN would continue to attempt to stimulate student interest and opinion in local, national, and international
affairs. A wall, ivy-covered as it may be, must not be allowed to develop between the academic and the rest
of the world. CANDIDATES FOR DAVIDSONIAN editor, Bill Hagen and David Dillard, discuss their respective platforms for the coming year.

HONOR COURT COMPLETE

Junior Hal Todd was elected editor of the 1963 Quips and Cranks in student body voting today. Honor Court elections
saw positions for the rising sophomore class won by Hugh Allen and Dick Bates, while Howard Arbuckle and Ben Coxton
were victorious in rising junior class balloting. Todd, a member of Beta Theta Pi and fraternity editor for this year's
annual, won over Jim Norman and Ted Scarboro on the first ballot. Todd had 58 votes, Scarboro was second with
33 and Norman had 18.

BATES LED

Bates, with 101 votes, and Allen with 84 defeated Will Jackson, 76, and Fred Sackette, 52. In the rising junior
class race, Arbuckle led with 64, while Coxton had 60 and Dave Lopp was eliminated with 53. First day voting
for freshman adviser saw the 12-man field of nominations narrowed to four, Jim Glenn, Bill Jarman, Spud Stewart, and Tom
Tuttle. Balloting will continue Monday. In a light vote at the polls Wednesday, the student body elected its YMCA officers
for the coming year. Platforms had been given in chapel on Tuesday.

NICHOLS WINS

Neil Nichols defeated Bud Robinson for president by a vote of 238 to 147. In other races, Andy Sale took
the vice-presidency over Dan Adams in the closest race of the day, by a 12-vote margin, 190 to 178. Bob
Bethel defeated George Oehler 206 to 124 for Y secretary, and Rick Brand beat Lowell Kirkman in the race for
treasurer 194 to 197. On Thursday, in a final runoff for two rising senior members of the Honor Court, Steve
Arthur and Alec Morgan were elected, each receiving 48 votes. They defeated two other runoff candidates, Bill Bankhead and Chuck
Mitchell, who tallied 37 and 38 votes respectively.

Union Sends Two To Ping-Pong Meet

Ben Cole, College Union president, announced this week that Staff Warren and Keith Fraser will represent Davidson at the District
Ping Pong Tournament at Raleigh next week. Cole also announced that Steve Arthur and Charlie Shappard will represent Davidson at
a planning session for the annual Regional Convention of College Unions. The planning committee will meet at Women’s College on
March 17. The Union hopes to get the second U.S. premier showing of a highly acclaimed and highly controversial foreign
film.

News articles, the interpretive study, and editorials must have both quality and appeal for the paper to have any “voice”
to and for the campus. This should not be construed to mean, however, that editorials should be a mere reflection
of the majority in student opinion. I firmly believe that the editor has a delegate’s function: that of serving the
interests that elected him in ways he thinks best. Responsibility is owed to the students, administration, and personal integrity. One
broad but concrete measure I would continually strive for, as editor, would be putting more individual responsibility in the hands
of the students. An increased role for student opinion and influence on campus will be one of the most important
ways to break the “apathy barrier.” In this respect, I would be wholeheartedly behind any efforts of the Student Council
to represent student views more effectively to the administration. If the caliber of student entering Davidson is continually going up,
I see no reason for not increasing the influence of both the individual and the group in deciding those policies
relating directly to the student body. Although it would be impossible to predict what my stand would be on problems
arising in the future, I can say that I will try to the utmost to examine each situation and its
attendant circumstances objectively and intelligently. Certain specific proposals I will support, though, are: 1.—an increasing use of the second page
as a sounding board for student opinion and as a source of new ideas. Leaders in student activities will be
urged to exercise their right to space on this page more often for a closer communication with the individual student.
Also, a monthly column of activities and programs at other colleges would be run. 2.—the continued study and (Continued On
Page Four).

French Department Revises Courses

A new intensive basic French course, an advanced course which will emphasize both French literature and fluency improvement, and an
increased emphasis on seminars and tutorials for the most advanced courses are three major changes in next year’s French curriculum.
French 13-14, which will include the content of both the present 11-12 and 21-22 courses, will be offered in addition
to the basic courses now given. It is primarily designed for upperclassmen with extensive experience in another foreign language; only
a few freshmen will be admitted. Juniors and seniors will no longer be allowed to take 11-12. The French department
feels that the pace of the elementary course is too slow for students who have already learned another language. French
33-34 will include literature as does the present 31-32, but it will also stress work on composition and conversation. The
most advanced courses, dealing with periods of French literature, will cease to be taught as classes. They will be offered
instead as seminar or tutorial courses, depending on the amount of demand by qualified students.
