BASKETBALL OPENS — ‘CATS MEET DUKE SPRATT DELINEATES NSA CONSTITUTION (See Page Two) VOL. LI The News and Editorial Voice
of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1962 (See Page Three) - NUMBER ELEVEN ’63 Book-Of-The-Year
Welty ‘Short Stories’ ODK Takes New Members The 1963 Book-of-the-Year is the YMCA-sponsored Selected Short Stories of Eudora Welty, a
Modern Library edition. Miss Welty will be on campus April 9 to discuss her work. She will speak to English
classes in the morning, give an assembly program consisting of readings from her short stories, and will conclude with a
talk followed by discussion in Chambers auditorium that evening. BY BILL LOGAN Davidsonian Staff Writer Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership
fraternity, held its fall tapping during assembly on Nov. 19. Mike Owen, president of ODK, presided and commissioned the tapping
of the following: Ben Bernhardt, Alex Gibbs, Lawrence Kimbrough, Larry Leafer, Neil Nichols, Bud Robinson, Frank Stafford, Bill Wallace, and
Dr. Tom Scott. BEN COLE is a Dana Scholar, president of the College Union, and associate editor of Scripts ‘n
Pranks. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon, Alpha Psi Omega, Eumenean Literary Society, and the Vagabonds. ALEX GIBBS is
a member of Scabbard and Blade, the varsity football team, and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. LAWRENCE KIMBROUGH is president
of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and is its IFC representative. He is also a member of the Student Council, Scabbard
and Blade, and the ROTC flight training course. LARRY LEAFER is a Dana Scholar, president of the YMCA, and a
member of the Chapel Choir. NEIL NICHOLS is a Dana Scholar and president of the senior class, D-Club, and the
IFC. He is a member of the soccer team, D-Club, and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. BUD ROBINSON is president
of Sigma Chi social fraternity and holds a James Sprunt Honorary Scholarship. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
Delta Phi Alpha, the YMCA Cabinet, the Male Chorus, and was tapped into Scabbard and Blade. FRANK STAFFORD is a
Dana Scholar and president of the Literary Society. BILL WALLACE, a Procter and Gamble Scholar, is a pre-med student and
a member of AED. He is a member of the Honor Court, Student Council, Philanthropic Literary Society, and Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity. DR. TOM SCOTT came to Davidson in 1955 and is now athletic director and golf coach. He
received his doctorate from Columbia University. He is co-author of the Intramural Handbook (1940). Since 1958 he has been director
of the NCAA Eastern Regional Basketball Tournament.

PAT BERNHARDT, student-ballad singer, was one of many attractions in the Vagabonds Variety Show presented Thursday morning. (Staff Photo by
McCutchen).

Carrell: No Solution Yet To Tri-Review Problems The Student Council discussed reviews, the National Student Association, Lake Norman, and the
State Student Legislature among other subjects at its meeting this week. No immediate relief is in sight for students with
three reviews on one day, President Danny Carrell reported. Before the administration made the decision, many professors had allowed students
in such a situation to postpone at least one review; however, the Faculty Executive Committee refused to take any action
on the current situation. Carrell said the administration is pleased with the response from the Lake Norman questionnaire. Only 328
replies were received; however, that was a good enough indication to allow college officials to begin more definite plans for
the area. The number from Davidson attending the State Student Legislature in Raleigh has dwindled to five. Charlie Dibble, co-chairman
of the Davidson delegation, told the council of the bill that the delegation is planning to offer to the legislature.
The bill proposes that the North Carolina governor be given a veto power and that he be allowed to succeed
himself. Vice President John Spratt announced that the NSA Regional Meeting would be held in Greensboro on Dec. 7-9. Colleges
in the Carolinas and Virginia will be represented at the session. Spratt will lead the Davidson delegation. The council appointed
Dudley Salley to be the NSA travel representative on campus. He will coordinate the NSA plans with those of the
YMCA and thereby offer Davidson students an expanded travel program.

College Admits 36 On Early Decision In a DAVIDSONIAN interview, H. E. White, assistant director of admissions, revealed that Early
Decision acceptances for the Class of 1967 have been made. This year the admissions office accepted 36 out of 80
who applied under the Early Decision Plan. Of those not accepted, 44 were held over for consideration under the regular
plan. Last year 44 were accepted.

New Assistant Dean Former Davidsonian In a smoothly engineered switch with the U.S. Army, the administration has traded the services
of D. G. Martin, Jr., for those of Augustus (Gus) Burgdorf, in the dual position of Assistant Dean of Students
and ROTC Liason Officer. Martin left for Fort Benning, Ga., this past Sunday to serve his Army hitch. After training
at the Army Intelligence School, he will be transferred to Fort Holobird, Md., to serve the remainder of his two
years. Burgdorf began work yesterday, having been firmly committed to take the job only last Friday following an interview here.
President D. Grier Martin was invited here by the Davidson administration. Burgdorf was released by the Army to fill the
position.

Local Cadet Corps To Pass In Review Maj. Gen. Ethan A. Chapman, Commanding General of the XII U.S. Army Corps,
will review the Davidson ROTC Corps of Cadets during a regular drill on Tuesday, Dec. 4. In its annual XII
Corps review, the cadet corps will pass in review for Chapman, who will troop the line, but will not inspect
in ranks. Chapman will arrive in Charlotte by plane from Atlanta, the XII Army Corps Headquarters, and will reach Davidson
by helicopter. His short stay on campus will include a luncheon with President D. Grier Martin and several members of
the administration. This visit will be Chapman’s third trip to the campus. Last year he was the inspecting general for
a similar review. He also awarded commissions to the ROTC graduates upon their graduation last year.

Don Stowell has indicated that he will remain at Davidson for the remainder of the semester. He will continue to
help with Vagabond productions until he leaves. “I didn’t think it fair to leave with all the plans made for
the first semester,” he told THE DAVIDSONIAN this week. When asked why he is leaving, he gave his health as
the reason. “I have not been feeling well—physically. As far as student participation in dramatics is concerned, that is not
a reason. I think it’s been getting better all along.” His future plans are uncertain. “I really don’t have any
plans. I may go home, or maybe to New York.”Out of a larger number of applicants. Grades for this year’s
applicants were about the same as last year’s group. There was also the usual geographical spread, covering mainly North Carolina,
South Carolina, Virginia, and Georgia. There was, however, an unusually large number of applicants from preparatory schools.

The Early Decision Plan, now in its third year at Davidson, is for applicants with excellent grades, test scores, recommendations,
and extracurricular records who are certain they want to attend Davidson and who are strongly recommended by their school authorities.
Applicants must complete admission requirements by Nov. 1 in order to be considered under this plan. In addition, they must
agree to enroll at no other college during the consideration period and, if accepted, to enroll at Davidson.

White also disclosed that next year’s freshman class is expected to number about 260. This year’s Early Decision acceptances constitute
about 15% of the Class of 1967.

Sponsored by the faculty Foreign Study Committee and the YMCA, President D. Grier Martin will comment on the general idea
of study abroad Monday morning, underlining the administration's endorsement of the program. Drs. T. O. Pinkerton, D. W. Tucker, and
J. O. Embry, members of the faculty committee, will lead the formal panel discussion. Also participating will be John Miles
of John Miles, Ltd., a Charlotte travel agency, and representatives from Cunard Lines and Trans World Airlines. After a formal
discussion, questions will be taken from students. A film on study abroad will begin the evening program at 7:15.

Carrell announced that he is still trying to meet with the faculty committee concerning the off-campus drinking rule. A pre-holiday
meeting was canceled; however, another meeting is scheduled early next week. Carrell also stated that many professors were pleased with
the class attendance just before and after the holiday recess. Many faculty members had feared a mass exodus with the
new cut system.

Gus Burgdorf, who graduated from Davidson in 1960, is a Sigma Chi alumnus. While at Davidson he was active in
the YMCA, played baseball, was a member of Eumenean Literary Society, was president of the Business-Economics Association, and a senior
from Charlotte. Burgdorf was offered the job after checking with the ROTC department to see which Davidson graduates would be
leaving the Army at the time of his son’s departure from the post. “Gus was the first choice of the
men available to take a job lasting only a few months,” commented Dean of Students Richard C. Burts in announcing
the appointment. “Dr. Martin spoke with him last Tuesday, after he was released from the Army a week ago Wednesday
at Fort Benning. His appointment, as was Martin’s, is only interim. He will serve until sometime next summer, at which
time he will leave to go to graduate school, and a new, yet unnamed man will fill the position. We
felt he could best gain the mutual confidence of both the students and the faculty,” he concluded.

The Faculty Executive Committee has clarified the new absence regulations by reinstating the provision from the old regulations that three
tardies shall constitute an absence. The action was taken at the request of an unnamed faculty member who had requested
a policy decision from the committee. The regulations in effect prior to the new ruling gave no penalties for tardies.
In addition to ruling that three tardies shall constitute an absence, the committee also ruled that any single tardy of
more than 15 minutes shall constitute an absence.

The Davidson College Music Department is sponsoring several musical programs between Thanksgiving and Christmas which began with the premier concert
of the Queens-Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra last Tuesday. This series will continue with an organ recital by Wilmer H. Welsh,
a piano recital by David Richey, a concert by the Davidson College Wind Ensemble, and finally, on Dec. 9, at
7 p.m., the Davidson College Choir will sing for the Christmas Musical Vespers in the College Church. This will be
a part of regular Sunday evening Vespers.

Dr. Welsh, an assistant professor of music at Winthrop College in Rock Hill, S.C., will play the organ in the
Davidson College Church at 4 p.m. Dec. 2. A graduate of Johns Hopkins University and Peabody Conservatory of Music, Welsh
has composed several selections which he will play at the recital along with selections by Mozart, Bach, Handel, and Buxtehude.

Richey, assistant professor of music at Davidson College, will be featured in a piano concert in Hodson Hall at 8:15
p.m., Dec. 3. A graduate of Oberlin Conservatory of Music, Richey joined the Davidson faculty in the fall of 1960.
He will play selections by Beethoven, Gershwin, Bach, and Chopin.

The Wind Ensemble, directed by Grier M. Williams, will present a concert in Hodson Hall at 8:15 p.m., Dec. 7.
The concert will feature a trombone solo by George Neely, a senior from Charlotte. Neely will play “Guilmant,” a standard
repertory for trombone. Also, the ensemble will play Professor Williams’ arrangement of Buxtehude’s “Fanfare,” selections from “Oklahoma,” historical marches, and
Leroy Anderson's arrangements of Christmas carols for a brass choir. No admission is being charged for any of the presentations.

So stated Dr. James B. Woods, college physician, on the state of readiness of the college infirmary in preparing for
any possible outbreak of influenza. Dr. Woods said that anyone who feels really liable to come down with it can
take the precautionary shot against it. “If a person has any tendency to catch a cold or bronchitis or is
very old or young, then that type of individual should take it.”

“We'll be glad to see that they do get it,” he stated. “You've got to put on the one hand
the discomfort of taking the shot and on the other the protection you can get from it,” said Dr. Woods.
His reply to a student's fear—“scared to death to take it”—would be that the only immediate effect is a sore
arm for a short time. “But I think in the long run it’s a good idea to be protected. However,
we don’t keep a good deal on hand—around twenty doses.” He stated that there is yet no cure known for
the flu. “After you've got it, the shots don’t do any good. The only thing we can do is put
the students to bed, and (in case of a serious outbreak) call in an extra nursing staff.” The charge for
the precautionary flu shot is $1, for the cost of supplying and administering the serum.

At the time there were no indications of the flu breaking out in wholesale attacks anywhere in the nation. However,
a group of students at the University of the South (Sewanee, Tenn.) were concerned enough to call up the Surgeon
General of the US last month and ask his opinion on the advisability of taking the precautionary shot. He warned
them that there always is a chance of a general outbreak of flu and that taking the shots was advisable.
Through their efforts to arouse the student body, they awoke the administration to action. By the first of November, free
flu shots were offered to all Sewanee students.

The concern of some people now is that the mass movements of students across the nation during the Thanksgiving and
Christmas holidays will tend to increase the likelihood of a widespread flu outbreak.
