PAGE FOUR

STANDING IN THE SHADOW — of her creation is JUDY BUMGARDNER who visited Davidson early this week under the auspice of the Fine Arts Festival. Mrs. Bumgardner specializes in polychrome sculpture. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

Judy Bumgardner ... Sculptured
BY BILL TROTTER
Davidsonian Fine Arts Critic

It might not be too far off to say that the exhibition of works by the Bumgardners has been the most exciting to see at Muses. But count (there were some smaller paintings where the identity of the object painted was unidentifiable) there were some twenty odd owls lining the halls. In fact, there might as well have been twenty reproductions of the same painting. The “Owl Variations” were simply not varied enough. To Mr. Bumgardner’s credit, let it be said that his work reflects sincerity and shows a fine use of color. But owls?

Art which shows things different from those which our eyes see daily may have many virtues to give it value. Among them might be the exotic quality that suggests motion, vastness, emotion—or something that creates some physical response in the beholder through its use of form and color. Of these items, only the latter was present in Mr. Bumgardner’s paintings. These paintings were a seemingly endless number of off-centered, distended images of balloon-breasted pink “nudes” that resembled semi-melted ice cream. The owls themselves were scratched rather strangely, either on, beside, behind, or superimposed on the melted ice cream blobs. But the dreadful sameness of the paintings! They imparted no emotional suggestions—did not please the eye with their design, kept their inner meaning marvelously hidden, (so well hidden this reviewer is hard-put even to admit it exists) and left the viewer with his shoulders in mid-shrug.

Strangely enough, when his paintings blurred into pure abstraction, when his very good power of color took over and invested the shapes with its own meaning, then Mr. Bumgardner's work seemed worthy of contemplation. The same thing may be said of the relatively few landscapes—they had sweep, color, real worth. But the commotion in the Fine Arts Festival yet. It was heartening to the Freshman Council halls of the Temple owls. Yes, by rough owls Mrs. Bumgardner’s sculpture might charitably be described as “cute.” Her work was constructed out of very raw materials—wooden chess men, orange crate bottoms, chest-of-drawer-knobs, etc. But here, again, an oppressive, dead, lack of variety—the same idea was worked and reworked until the impression one got was just a blur of wooden toys, each trying vainly to assert some importance it did not possess. Here was sculpture which neither beautified, outraged, thrilled, or puzzled very strongly. To be sure, when one first entered the gallery, one was slightly puzzled. But the effect wore off when, upon close examination, one found that there was nothing there to get puzzled about. But at least it was honest art—it did not, as much modern music and art does, make the viewer feel that if he only looked long and hard enough, and tried very hard to get into the right mood, some great importance or value would manifest itself. One hard glance was sufficient to show most people that any long session of contemplation would be a waste of time.

Lest it should seem that I am condemning Bumgardner’s work, let me hasten to add that I am very happy they came. It was delightful to hear the violent assertions of opinion and criticisms being handed back and forth among the viewers. In this sense, their work was very valuable—it had people thinking, discussing, cussing, interested, and concerned. And that, around here, takes some doing. It is all the more unfortunate that the paintings and the sculpture aroused this interest in a negative way. Here was a case where the cause was considerably less than the effect.

SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Order your subscription now so that you may receive all next year’s DAVIDSONIANs beginning with the first issue next September. Don’t miss important campus news. Only $3.00
—I Enclose Three Dollars
—Bill Me Later
The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1962

Davidson's Blues Troop To U. Va.
Two officers of the Davidson College Conservative Club are attending a two-day seminar at the University of Virginia this weekend. Leaving this morning for the Charlottesville conference entitled “A Conservative Approach to Foreign Policy” were Dick Voorhees and Charles Dibble. Included among the speakers are Frank Meyer, Senior Editor of National Review; Dr. Hans Sennholz, Chairman of the Economics Department of Grove City College; and Dr. James Wiggins, Chairman of the Sociology and Anthropology Department at Emory University. The conference is the first Southern seminar conducted by the Intercollegiate Society of Individualists, a nine-year-old conservative youth organization. Host for the seminar is the John Randolph Society of the University of Virginia.

Frosh "Phi Bete” Acquires Charter
A chapter of the national freshman scholarship fraternity, Phi Eta Sigma, will be chartered at Davidson on Thursday, May 10. The chartering of this organization will be the culmination of the main project of the Freshman Council this semester. Phi Eta Sigma is founded on the principle that excellence in scholarship among college men in the freshman year merits membership in an honorary fraternity. The charter will be presented to Davidson by the Executive Secretary of the fraternity, James Foy of Auburn University Thursday evening. The occasion for the presentation will be a banquet given for the newly initiated members of Phi Eta Sigma and the members of the Freshman Council. Membership will be open to all upperclassmen who made at least a 2.5 average one of the two semesters of their freshman year. Freshmen will qualify for membership on the basis of their first semester average.

Institute After Vespers
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Clark
Goodykoontz
Puckett
Davidson
Hopkins
Wheaton
Embry
Lobanov-Rostovsky
Woods
Goldiere
D. G. Martin
Workman

Open Houses
Seniors And Faculty Compete In Sports
Competition in golf, tennis, and softball will highlight the Senior-Faculty Day Wednesday, May 9. After the softball game, the seniors and faculty members will get together for an informal fish fry in Hobart Park behind Richardson Field. The rounds of golf, which will start off the day’s events, will be held at the Mooresville course beginning at 1:30 in the afternoon. The golfers will be divided into mixed foursomes of seniors and faculty members, with scoring in each foursome by the low aggregate system. The tennis matches, beginning at 2 p.m. on the Davidson courts, will include only doubles play. The reason for the lack of singles play, laughingly explained by Coach Heath Whittle, is that “you can’t get any of the faculty members to play singles.”

Charles Robshaw Vespers Speaker
Rev. Charles P. Robshaw, minister of the East Liberty Presbyterian Church in Pittsburgh, Pa., will be the vespers preacher Sunday night. The title of his sermon is “Identifying Oneself.” The Reverend Mr. Robshaw, STD, DD, LLD, is a native of Ireland and waseducated at the University of Dublin. In this country, he attended Princeton University. Since that time he has served pastorates both in New Jersey and in Pennsylvania. The special organist for Vespers this week will be Michael Arrowood, a freshman from Shelby, as the end of his course of instruction for the organ this year.

Sophomores and juniors.

The Study Abroad and Institute programs offer sophomores the opportunity to broaden their background in general studies and the liberal arts, and juniors the opportunity to specialize among the following:

VIENNA: Attend English- or German-taught liberal arts courses. Experience European culture at its roots by living in a Viennese home. Visit nine European countries on field-study trips.

PARIS: Attend French-taught classes. Investigate France and the Benelux countries on a field-study trip. Live in a Parisian home.

FREIBURG: Attend German-taught liberal arts courses. Live in a German home. Be introduced to Western Germany, Switzerland, and Italy on two field-study trips.

Prerequisites: You should be a junior; have a C-plus average; and be proficient in German.

(Each fee includes tuition, field study, room, and round-trip ocean voyage from New York.)

For further information, mail the coupon to:
Institute of European Studies
Box J, 35 East Wacker Drive
Chicago 1, Illinois

NAME:
ADDRESS:
CITY:
ZONE:
STATE:
COLLEGE:
IN SCHOOL:
Check: ☐ VIENNA ☐ PARIS ☐ FREIBURG

The softball game will begin at 4 p.m. on the Davidson field and will be followed 30 minutes after its conclusion by the fish fry in Hobart Park. Coach Whittle, who will organize participants, chuckled when asked about the contests in a DAVIDSONIAN interview. “Usually the faculty wins the events,” he stated with mock seriousness. “But of course, the lettermen in golf, tennis, and baseball are not eligible.”

P.O. Tells Students ‘Summer's Coming’

The Davidson Post Office has announced steps students should take to ensure prompt delivery of mail to their summer addresses. Students should immediately turn in a change of address card at the post office, with the effective date noted, to facilitate forwarding of first-class mail. The post office is affixing change of address cards to magazines and newspapers so students can have the necessary changes made by the end of school to ensure summer delivery of second-class mail without paying forwarding charges. Those who wish to retain the same lock box for next year should mail the Davidson postmaster a check or money order for $3.60 payable to the postmaster after June 20th.

Flatt Bluegrass Concert Shows Even The Yankees

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

When our great nation was being built, some of the musicians of the past, not suburbial, made do with stringed instruments they could make for entertainment rather than juke boxes or the radio. And at the same time, Lester Flatt, Earl Scruggs, and the Foggy Mountain Boys are musicians of the present and of the future. They arrived on campus last Saturday only 45 minutes before they were to give their Spring Frolics concert. They took time only to tune up the fiddle, the banjo, and the guitar. And they were ready to start before most of the audience had begun to filter into Chambers Auditorium. The group needed no more time than that for they had already played every night that week from Arkansas into North Carolina. The audience, though moderately small, was appreciative. A good many people came backstage at intermission to request numbers. One fellow, bubbling over with excitement, burst into the room and fairly shouted, “I’m a Yankee, and I just love this music! I've never heard anything like it before!” And he put in his request for a tune. Flatt and Scruggs came back for two curtain calls and then had about 15 couples ask for autographs after the show.

Their style of music is popularly called “bluegrass.” Some people call it “country.” Others make the mistake of calling it “hillbilly.” But “hillbilly” is taken by mountain folk to be a term of contempt, and entertainers in the bluegrass field take it as no less so. While not every concert-goer could be as enthusiastic as that Yankee, there could be no room for contempt after the performance. For the Foggy Mountain Boys are the most popular band in their field. And even though many people's taste runs to other types of music, it is fitting at times to lend an ear to the music that serenaded our forefathers as they built our nation.

The six members of the band have a combined total of at least 120 years in show business. They are pros; they play for money. But they also play because it is their life. None of them would have it any other way. “The roughest part about show business is the traveling,” commented Hi-lo Brown, who has been in it for 22 years. “For instance, we just drove down from Asheville today and will go on down to Albemarle for a show tonight. Then we will drive all the way back to Nashville, Tenn., right after that show. I can remember when we've made as many as five television films in the morning and then gone on and did two concerts that day.” But the business has rewards. Money, of course. But to see the men’s faces when they play before a good audience is something that money cannot buy. “We really do enjoy playing before a good audience,” said Lester Flatt, a man of very few words off stage.

Hi-lo’s nickname comes from his unusual style of singing part of a song in an extremely high tenor voice and the rest of it in his normal voice. He is also a man who loves the old songs, the folk songs that are the voice of the people and hence the voice of the very nation. His renditions of “John Henry” and “The Prisoner’s Song” were excellent examples of his style. And last Saturday, Earl Scruggs gave a powerful demonstration of why he is considered to be the banjo-pickin’est man in the land. His three-fingered style of picking is now widely imitated by banjo enthusiasts everywhere. But none can match the skill or dexterity with which he manipulates the five-string. Throughout the concert program, he proved that point.

Cousin Jake, the group’s funny-man, has a different voice pitch and little mountain accent off stage. But he can still crack jokes wherever he is. “It’s hard to get a straw hat to feel right on your head,” said Les Flatt just before going on. “It’s hard to get one to look right on that head,” came back Jake. It took them only 15 minutes after the performance to pack their instruments. And then they were off to Albemarle. Country music’s most traveled group had to move on. “It’s the same old story,” said Flatt. “There’s always more folks waiting to hear bluegrass music.”

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a PIZZA.

THE FAMOUS OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

BILL STEAKS
FORMERLY MIDWAY LAKE

Grand Opening
Scottie’s Club South
MAY 11th And 12th
Regular Feature
HANA'S JAZZ QUINTET
REASONABLE PRICES
CHICKEN SANDWICHES OF ALL KINDS
FISHING IN OUR NEWLY STOCKED LAKE
SWIMMING