Che Davidsonian

PAGE TWO THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

At The Beginning

At an enthusiastic meeting, the student body voted for THE DAVIDSONIAN to make its initial bow. In the inauguration of such a newspaper, many questions no doubt arise. “Why a college weekly? Does it have a real value? What will it stand for?”

The newspaper is largely what its name implies, a source of news. It should be in close touch with every aspect of college life and the life of the community about it. Even in a small college, life becomes more and more complex, and as the students are broken up into an increasing number of groups, there is a feeling of mutual interest and encouragement. In addition, there are the issues which vitally concern every student, and yet which are not well known or misunderstood.

But the boundaries of a college are not the limits of its campus. In close contact with it every day is a community which is certain to influence and be influenced by the student. The town column should make every man feel he has friends in the town, and their interest in the college should be increased by the weekly items and topics about it.

The old Davidson spirit which has held sway at Davidson in tradition and fact for years upon years goes with the graduate that leaves her. He scans the daily paper for any stray paragraph of Davidson news, and clasps with a loyal grip the hand of a Davidson man. THE DAVIDSONIAN should go to the home of every alumnus, let him know what is happening every week at his alma mater and unite undergraduate and alumnus, alumnus and alumnus in one common interest and concern.

The paper must not follow blindly. It should lead, not lag. It should mold, not be molded by the sway of campus opinion. It should stand for the best things in every line. This may necessitate occasionally a firm but kind criticism, which, however, often removes an obstruction and clears the way for more concerted and faithful effort.

The Annual is the yearly mirror of college life as it is, a large edition of “Life” in student language. The Magazine is the monthly expression of the literary talent of the college. The weekly newspaper will not encroach on either of them; rather it will strive to advertise and strengthen them. But it needs exactly what the other publications must rely upon, the support of the students and of the friends of Davidson. With your constant and real help, it can be made newsy and strong. It can bring to you all the latest happenings of interest in the college and town. It can increase the spirit in athletic, literary, social, and religious life here; it can be a link between college and community, alumni and alma mater. THE DAVIDSONIAN asks for your earnest cooperation.

THE DAVIDSONIAN — April 1, 1914

Fifty Volumes Later

The first volume appeared in 1914, but we pride ourselves today in the fact that we still cherish deeply and uphold faithfully the same stated goals. The future of THE DAVIDSONIAN in April, 1962 is just as challenging, if not more so, than that which an energetic group of students faced in April, 1914.

A new editor will assume the reins of this paper next week. He will inherit a rare privilege and a great responsibility. For the need of a “News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College” is as great today as it was when we first began calling ourselves “The News And Editorial Voice of Davidson College.”

First, we are an active group. From reporter to editor each week means a new task—a new paper to put out. But it isn’t just any paper, for we place strict demands upon ourselves for continual improvements, for better news coverage, for a more aggressive issue. We strive each week to remain “The Liveliest Wire on the Campus.”

Secondly, we do seek a “better Davidson.” Elsewhere on this page is a statement of our concept of our responsibility. We have read a number of criticisms about wholly or in part by THE DAVIDSONIAN but that is not necessary. A newspaper can never get by on its past record.

Toward The Future

In keeping the college aware of its role, THE DAVIDSONIAN has its challenge for the future. The issues of today—curriculum, faculty, integration, fraternities, honor system, underachievement, academic freedom, athletics—will be joined by countless others in the procession of years.

“It should stand for the best things in every line,” that first editorial declared. And during its next 50 volumes, the newspaper must do just that, as vigorously, honestly, and constructively as it can. And, too, that we are not self-sufficient. A newspaper needs an interested, responsive, critical audience. The simplest of our founders is still ours. THE DAVIDSONIAN asks for your earnest cooperation.

Photographer Joe McCutchen
Managing Editors Bill Hagen
Advertising Manager Dave Calhoun
Circulation Manager Sam Fort
Assistant Bus. Manager Rick Finch

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

FACULTY ONCE GAVE CENSORSHIP RULES

Paper Assumes Right Of Self-Criticism After Half-Century Struggle Of Freedom

BY DON SAUNDERS
Davidsonian Associate Editor

What is the function of the editorial page of a college newspaper? Since 1914 THE DAVIDSONIAN editorial column has widened its coverage and concern to include all issues of academic life. The freedom of DAVIDSONIAN editors has grown in proportion to the development of mature criticism which characterizes a thinking community.

In a 1916 editorial P. B. Price defended an editorial stand condemning church misconduct by noting that “THE DAVIDSONIAN is not to set forth only the glories and virtues of the college, and hide that which is unlovely.” This right of free criticism is a heritage proudly guarded by American newspapermen, but has not always been a part of collegiate tradition.

At a 1925 conclave of N.C. college newspapers DAVIDSONIAN editors joined in “begging that the publications be allowed to express within their columns the true thoughts and ideals held by the mass of students.” Harlee Branch, Jr., then editor, asked, “Is THE DAVIDSONIAN allowed to exercise freedom of the press?” His question was not answered publicly. When the editor of the Davidson College Magazine was removed from office by the faculty for a story exhibiting “low moral tone,” the paper made no protest.

In 1930 DAVIDSONIAN editor J. Wilson McCutchan said that the function of a college newspaper is to expose “the candles that are being hidden under blankets.” We can find shaded criticism of Davidson's way of life in the 1930s. Whether from indirect pressure or from the editors’ super-sensitive feelings of propriety, however, the editorial column remained silent on administration and faculty policy. There was mild protest when the college abolished the music and fine arts department in 1931. There was a demand for a new college church. The amount of space given to these issues made an Open Letter to Censors, Oct. 24, 1934, even more dramatic. It was made clear that “THE DAVIDSONIAN assumes no responsibility for any sentiments embodied in this article.

“We have an undeniable right to decide for ourselves in the pages of this paper whether or not we shall subscribe to the accredited conventions of a contemporary culture,” said the 1934 article. The next week, editor K. D. Weeks acknowledged that “adverse criticism” was not published in THE DAVIDSONIAN since “there are limitations placed upon freedom of expression in the columns of this paper.”

Editorial Page Is Newspaper Tradition

BY B. MILLNER
Editor, 1960-61

This newspaper is burdened with a motto. Since 1956, THE DAVIDSONIAN has been published with the legend, “The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College” printed under its nameplate. And at least onceEvery year since, a minority stand which opponents have denounced as inconsistent with the motto of the paper. “The majority of Davidson students don’t agree with you, so you're not really being the editorial voice of Davidson College,” they protest.

NO IMPLICATION

There is nothing in the motto that concretely implies any obligation to print the majority opinion of those connected with Davidson College. Instead, the phrase states only that this newspaper is the publication issued by the college that concerns itself with news and editorial matter. After all, is there any other publication on the campus whose purpose is to present current news and editorial opinion?

In grammatical terms, the word "of" is the troublemaker. "Of," upon superficial examination, may be taken to mean representation. A preposition more indicative of the real implication of the motto is "in." An ideal expression of the precise meaning, therefore, is “The News and Editorial Voice in Davidson College.” This implies location rather than representation.

First, THE DAVIDSONIAN is not a polling service. It would be ludicrous for us to seek a mandate from the student body each week before we write our editorials. Polling is expensive and time-consuming.

Second, as an editor of the Wake Forest Old Gold and Black once put it, the newspaper is not a corporation. Just because a portion of the expenses for THE DAVIDSONIAN are paid out of the general activity fee doesn't entitle every student to be an editor. We welcome anyone’s opinion and his criticism, but beyond that, he can mind his own business. He pays only for the right to read the paper, not for the right to determine what goes into it.

OPEN TO ALL

Third, THE DAVIDSONIAN doesn't print just one side of an issue. We have a considerable amount of space on the editorial page open to anyone who would like to disagree with us. If he is literate enough, we will even let our opponent write a column in disagreement. This latter offer is an opportunity offered by few newspapers, but few people here have taken advantage of it.

But to say that the editorial page is slanted is an inane observation. It's supposed to be slanted. And the clearer the position, the better. This is our stand. We are entrusted with the responsibility to report the news as we see and hear it and to comment on the news as we see fit. If we can prick complacency’s balloon or take a swipe at blind prejudice, we hope we'll have the courage to do it. If we are wrong, we take full responsibility. In 20 years, we may look back and marvel at how we jousted at windmills. But for the present, we think we're right and we'll put it in print.

In the Oct. 20, 1937 issue, the staff made public the faculty censorship rules of the campus paper. There were five:

1. There must be no derogatory or embarrassing reference to members of the faculty or student body in jest, cartoon, or otherwise.
2. No profanity or obscenity or anything bordering on the profane or obscene will be permitted.
3. Vices that may at any time be prevalent in the student body must not be advertised or paraded before the public by direct or indirect reference thereto.
4. Nothing can enter any publication that the faculty committee in charge does not consider to be for the best interest of the college. If there is any item criticizing the college, its policies, or administration, such items must be submitted to the chairman of the faculty committee in charge.
5. The Editor-in-Chief and the Business Manager will be held directly responsible for all material published and for the enforcement of the above regulations.

We can only infer that the student body accepted these regulations. In July 1944, a box on the editorial page proclaimed, “This paper is the official history of college life and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such, it welcomes any contribution to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism.” This note ran until Sept. 1947, when printing the paper became a local operation.

The gradual growth toward greater student expression has been reflected in THE DAVIDSONIAN. By 1952, John Ottley could write of the editor's responsibility under a free press. However, he noted, “It is conceivable how in an isolated case an administrative veto might itself approach the state of being license while ostensibly devoted to the purpose of preventing the school paper's freedom from exceeding its bounds.” The issue in 1952 was the creation of a Student-Faculty Conference Committee, which was not solved then, nor, probably, will it ever be.

By 1954, THE DAVIDSONIAN had assumed most of its modern characteristics. Editor Henry Brockmann, indignant over the failure of the trustees to increase athletic subsidization in the face of student demand, wrote: “THE DAVIDSONIAN, ‘the news and editorial voice of the college,’ is recognized by those who work for it as a free press, independent of close supervision and able to support anything that is within the bounds of good taste and reason.”

Every Editor's Albatross: Chasing Campus Pigeons
BY LEE KIRBY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“A pigeon is a bird of dignity and of beauty, to be treated with respect and even reverence.” In this earth-moving editorial of 1943 and the furor it raised is continued all the dilemma and anxiety of effort and even, alas, the pathos of occasional failure in trying to fill that impossible chair behind THE DAVIDSONIAN editor’s desk. What to write, how to get it across, how to get it into print — these are the questions that have plagued the editors of fifty volumes of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

For “The News and Editorial Voice” is not a brave, gilded neck, issue to last. Its persistent voice mocks, “editor's desk.” No, it cannot be seen on a dramatic raven, an albatross that, about Pigeon, pi... A mock that lingers and pursues the editor from the first issue to the last. Its sardonic call takes many forms—the pigeon, spelled with a “d” the anguished reply: “It seemed that the uproar over the misspelling was greater than that over the shooting of the pigeons—U cn undrstnd this cnt u?”

It is the voice that haunts the editor in the search for an editorial, even to the pigeons in the park—a voice that will drive an editor to the limits of noble diction—beyond “Beauty... dignity... respect... reverence...” It is a demon which lurks in the dorms, even in the audience of 936 who could “see some potential” of the editor's words.

It is a gremlin which lurks in the typewriter and the Davidson Printing Co., in the final stages, in the galley proofs, in the copy and layouts, always striving to trip the editor with some new mechanical problem, so far as to have editors beg for the establishment of journalism courses here, for extra credit for DAVIDSONIAN work, or for pay for the staff. “My greatest problem,” one old editor writes, “was to get the copy ready to be sent to Charlotte for the Tuesday deadline...”

It is the harsh caw of criticism: “Our editors do not have any real idea how to find it, nor manufacture it, nor what to do with it when they get it...” Or the absence of criticism: “It is hard to have a good college paper unless it has some readers who are critical and appreciative...”

And it is, most persistently and most annoyingly, the solemn tones of duty—the duty that accompanies editorial freedom, the duty of truth, and to the electorate. And past generations' protests, combined with occasional “Where was THE DAVIDSONIAN when...” or one like this: “THE CAMPUS cries for pigeons,” or one like this: “THE DAVIDSONIAN is grape-nuts to me—I can’t live without it! (1916)”

Maybe the wages aren’t so bad after all.