YMCA PHILOSOPHY EXPLAINED (See Page Three)

VOL. LI

Council Requests Decision On Holiday Cut Regulations

BY CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Assignments Editor

The Student Council has requested the Faculty Executive Committee to clarify its position on the holiday clause of the absence
regulations now in effect. In a letter to President D. Grier Martin, chairman of the committee, Student Body President Danny
Carrell emphasized the council’s concern over the as-yet undefined penalty for cuts taken two days before or after holiday periods.

Immediately after the new cut system was approved by the faculty last spring, the council requested that the holiday clause,
Section 11-E of the regulations, be deleted. The request failed to receive favorable action by the faculty committee. Carrell’s letter,
unanimously approved in the Student Council meeting Monday evening, suggests possible alternatives to the present void. The letter states, “The
Council feels that it is only fair that the student body be informed of the Committee's feelings. Furthermore, the Council
suggests that the use of a double or perhaps a triple cut penalty be considered.”

After the Monday meeting, Carrell told THE DAVIDSONIAN that the council plans to study during the year the problems of
off-campus drinking and the statement all fraternity presidents are required to sign after each dance weekend with regard to drinking
violations they have witnessed. The council will also review present election procedures and effect necessary changes.

This coming Monday, the council will devote its assembly to introducing the Richardson Scholars to the student body. The council's
assembly the week of Homecoming will be shifted to Friday morning in order to present the annual assembly leading off
that weekend.

The student assembly Monday, Oct. 22 will bring Charles R. Jonas, incumbent Republican candidate for re-election to Congress from the
North Carolina 8th District, to the platform. He will be followed on Thursday of that week by Paul Kitchin, the
opposition Democratic candidate. Beginning in November or later, the council plans to bring to the campus speakers representing organizations on
both fringes of the political spectrum. In chapel Monday, Carrell mentioned bringing speakers from groups such as the Congress on
Racial Equality, Americans for Democratic Action, Young Americans for Freedom, and possibly even the Communist Party.

Freshman Council

The Freshman Council, which will hold its first meeting early next week, consists of twenty-two freshmen, Freshman Advisor Spud Stewart,
and C. Shaw Smith, director of the Union Placement Bureau. Stewart and Smith will act as advisors to the Council
until the first freshman grade reports are issued. At this time two officers, a president and a secretary-treasurer, will be
elected; and the group will become more autonomous.

The first responsibility of the Council is to plan and coordinate Freshman Parents Day, which will be held on Oct.
20. Although the plans for this function are incomplete at present, the agenda will include a faculty reception, tours of
the campus, a banquet, and the freshman football game. The purpose of these activities is not only to acquaint the
parents with the Davidson College campus but also to allow the freshman to have a brief reunion with their parents.

The next duty for the Council will be the planning of the annual Freshman-Sophomore Field Day, which will be held
shortly after Homecoming. Volleyball, flickerball, and track and field events are some of the areas of competition in this “struggle”
between the freshmen and the sophomores. After these activities are completed, the Council plans a service project and a social
function, both to be held near the end of the first semester.

Music Convocation Opens With Composer's Concert

Frosh Select Powell, Cheerleader

The Freshman Class elected Jim McNab and David Powell cheerleaders last Wednesday. When asked why he decided to run for
cheerleader, McNab replied, “Tarby Bryant talked me into it.” More seriously, he said, “I want to be out there on
the court when we beat Wake Forest. I want to be out there when we beat Duke, if that is
possible.” Both new cheerleaders feel that the school spirit at Davidson needs to be improved. Powell, when questioned about why
he wanted to be a cheerleader, answered, “I just think something ought to be done about it (the school spirit).”
He backs up his belief through a more effective use of last Friday’s pep rally.

McNab, a pre-law major, played basketball and tennis in high school and is a Phi Delt. Powell ran track in
high school. He is a Freshman Council representative from his hall, an SAE, and a history major.

Contest Announced For Student Poets

The National Poetry Press has announced its competition for the College Students’ Poetry Anthology. The annual closing date for the
submission by college students is Nov. 5. Any student attending either junior or senior college is eligible to submit his
verse. There is no limitation as to form or theme.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1962

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

CATS TO TERRORIZE TERRIERS (See Page Four)

NUMBER THREE

Beauties Soon Due; Friday Night Formal Affair

Dorsey, Four Frosh Entertain Frolickers

The Tommy Dorsey Orchestra with Sam Donohue again headlines the plans for this year’s Homecoming weekend, Oct. 12-13, which will
also feature The Four Freshmen in a Saturday concert. These were the tentative plans announced by the IFC this week.
Johnny Rogers, president, explained that although these groups have agreed to come for the weekend, no contracts have been signed
yet. An initial lack of operating funds for the IFC delayed the final arrangements.

A formal dance on Friday night will start the big weekend. Featuring the Dorsey Orchestra, the dance will be held
in the college gym from 8 to 11 p.m. There will be a figure at the dance. The IFC voted
to end the dance earlier than usual to avoid any conflict with after-dance parties. It will conflict with the Artist
Series presentation though. Starting at 8 p.m. Teresa y Su Compania Espanola will present an evening of Spanish dancing. The
Music Department said it scheduled the performance for two years ago.

Having performed during Homecoming in 1961, the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra is already familiar to many Davidson men. The sax-totin’ leader,
Sam Donahue, who travels over 50,000 miles each year, has played with many bands. After directing his own orchestra for
several years, he returned to the Tommy Dorsey group last year and started the orchestra on a comeback trail. He
had been a right-hand man during the 50’s for Tommy Dorsey, “The Sentimental Gentleman.” Some of the tunes made famous
by the group then were “Down By the Station,” “Ol’ Man River,” and “Sunny Side of the Street.”

Homecoming displays by each of the twelve fraternities will be judged on Saturday morning by a faculty committee to be
selected by the IFC. Most fraternities are well along in plans for this year’s displays. The Wildcats will tangle with
the Indians of William and Mary on Saturday afternoon at 2 in the Homecoming football game. The Four Freshmen will
be featured in a concert Saturday at 8 p.m. The quartet, best known for their unique style, is prominent in
jazz circles. Stan Kenton discovered the group soon after its beginning in the Midwest. Each star plays several different instruments.
Their LPs feature these instruments, such as saxophone, trombone, and trumpet. They were at Davidson that time, earlier than usual,
so it wouldn't conflict with the formal dance.

Fund Drive Begins Wednesday

The YMCA financial drive will begin Wednesday, Oct. 3, and continue through the following Wednesday. Solicitors will contact each student
and will present him with a statement of last year’s budget and proposed financial plans for this year. In addition,
the students will be informed of the new aims of the Y's expanded program, such as the expansion of the
community athletic coaching program, a wider range of deputations, and more effective use of forums and discussion groups. A spokesman
commented, “The YMCA Cabinet feels that through the financial drive, each student will be able to make an informed contribution
to our 1962-63 program, and it feels that this expanded program aided by full participation by each student can help
to meet the Y's primary aim of service.”8:15 p.m. | but shorter works are preferred. Peeters will perform the works
of Buxtehude, Bach, and Clerambault, in addition to four of his own compositions, in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. A
keynote address by Rev. Howard G. Hageman, DD, minister of the North Reformed Church in Newark, N. J., will be
followed by Dr. Grier M. Williams, director of the Davidson Wind Ensemble, and members of Davidson’s Brass Ensemble. An exhibit
of sacred music will be displayed the entire day in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center by Cecil Brodt of Charlotte’s
Brodt Music Company. A choral communion service will begin a full day's activities for the Convocation delegates Saturday morning in
Hodson Hall.

Hageman, a native of Lynn, Mass., and a graduate of Harvard University and New Brunswick Seminary, will speak on the
subject “Renewed Concerns for Worship.” A panel discussion on “The Use of Music for Liturgical Purposes” will follow Hageman’s address.
Leading the discussion will be Dr. C. Lynwood Brown, pastor of the White Memorial Presbyterian Church in Raleigh, and Rev.
Daniel L. Durway, assistant minister of Charlotte's Covenant Presbyterian Church. Also included will be Rev. C. Wayne Leazer, assistant pastor
of the Holy Trinity Evangelical Lutheran Church of Hickory, and Wilmer H. Welch, assistant professor of music at Winthrop College
and organ instructor at Davidson.

Afternoon events for the Convocation will include a master class by Peeters, followed by a symposium on “The Use of
Instrumental Music in the Church” presented by Dr. Brown. Brown will close the music conference.

Traffic Court Busy With Violations

An unusually high number of students have been hauled into Traffic Court so far this year. According to Assistant Dean
of Students, D. G. Martin, the number has been averaging 75 per week. In a normal week, only about 25
violations are reported. Martin noted that the cause seems to be the confusion due to the first weeks of school
and the general ignorance of the traffic regulations.

The system of handling traffic violations remains basically the same as it was last year. The vehicle is registered through
the purchase of a permit. This year the window stickers used in the past for identification have been replaced by
bumper stickers for the convenience of Mr. Linker, the security officer. Fines are paid at the bursar’s office. An additional
fee of one dollar is charged to students who must be “tracked down” by their license numbers.

The Traffic Court presently consists of a representative of the treasurer, the bursar, and the dean of students. A representative
of the Student Council, John Soratt, also is on the court. The traffic violator must appear before the court, which
meets every Friday afternoon. This replaces the old system, under which only written appeals could be made by students protesting
their tickets.

Davidson College owns this tract of land and some of the woods that stand fast by it. And soon the
face of the earth will show no more, soon there will be no gully and no fields—only water. Lake Norman,
which has already crept into the gully, will continue to rise until it has completely conquered the spot. The surrounding
woods will also undergo change, change that is even now being planned by an expert landscape architect.

Beginning next summer, the alteration will affect every watery-brained Davidson student and faculty member. Where once a man could tread,
he will be able to swim in a spot laid out especially for that purpose. Where once a mule pulled
a plow along soil-killing cotton rows, Davidson water-enthusiasts will launch speedy boats pushed by horsepower. For the college plans to
build their own marina and to have a well-protected swimming area ready for use by the time the lake is
completely filled.

Even now, the wooded area has undergone some change. A great red gash has been pushed through the trees and
will soon be rocked. It leads right up to the lakefront. Part of the shoreline has been bulldozed off. And
even more change will take place. Grover C. Meetze, director of the physical plant, plans to put pit rock on
the roadbed soon and in January sink pilings off the marina and swimming area. The college also hopes that toilet
facilities and bathhouses can be installed before the summer. “In fact,” business manager Robert Currie stated, “we hope to have
all essential elements necessary to the use of the lake completed by the time it has finished filling.”

“The unfortunate thing at this time,” said Currie, “is that we don’t know exactly how much land Duke Power will
give us behind our shoreline.” He said that the college has hired Charles F. Gillette of Richmond, Va., to do
the planning of the landscaping once the boundary of the land is known. Currie added that it will take some
time to develop the whole area “as we would like it to look finally.” Money, of course, is the chief
factor. Besides the priority objects mentioned, the college plans to have hiking trails and picnic areas. Other considerations are being
made for a games area that could include tennis and basketball courts. But even as these plans are being laid,
water continues to fill up the largest lake in Duke Power's Catawba system. With summer, Lake Norman will be a
large reality. And perhaps just as much a reality will be a large summer school attendance at Davidson.

At Last A Wet Campus: We'll Be Driven To Drink

The area is about three and a half miles from the Davidson campus, off U.S. 21. A great gully cuts
through worn-out fields. Water stands in it, but the hardier weeds have been tall enough to escape a wet grave
for their heads are above the surface.

RETURN ENGAGEMENT. Sam Donahue returns again this year to lead the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra in its appearance at the Friday
night Homecoming dance.

Fellowship Deadlines Nearing For Seniors

The Committee on Graduate Scholarships and Fellowships is beginning to evaluate seniors demonstrating “distinction of intellect and character” for some
of the many grants offered for graduate work each year.

Prof. G. L. Abernethy, chairman of the committee, noted that some of the grants, such as the Danforth awards, require
the Graduate Record Examination which will be given here on Saturday, Nov. 17. Abernethy stated that he has extra copies
of the G.R.E. application blanks for students who need them.

At present, information is available through Dr. Abernethy on the Danforth Graduate Fellowships and through Dr. W. P. Cumming on
both the Marshall Scholarships and the Rhodes Scholarships. The latter two are for study in Great Britain. Information will be
available soon on the Woodrow Wilson and Ford Foundations, Fulbright, and Rockefeller Brothers awards.

He pointed out that some graduate schools require the examination’s results merely for admission. The committee, which coordinates information about
graduate scholarship opportunities which require institutional approval, last year compiled a record of eight awards. Three of these were won
by Harrison Wellford. Davidson seniors captured four Wilson awards, two Danforth fellowships, and one each of the Rockefeller Brothers and
Marshall awards.

Dr. Abernethy promised that information on the other awards will be posted on the bulletin board in the south end
of Chambers as soon as the committee receives them. He emphasized the need for speed in applying for these awards,
noting as an example that the Graduate Record must be applied for two weeks before it is taken.

Merchants Parade Fall Campus Dress

Jack Wood Ltd. of Charlotte, John Mack and Son of Mooresville, Rush Wilson Ltd. of Davidson, and Tate-Brown Co. of
Charlotte, in conjunction with the Davidson College Union, will present a fashion show featuring men’s and women’s fall campus fashions
in the Morrison Room on Tuesday evening, Oct. 2.

Two presentations will be held, the first at 7:15 and the second at 8:30. Each will last about 45 minutes.
Seats will be available for about 150 spectators. Steve Arthur, chairman of the College Union Special Features Committee, announced that
modeling the clothes will be 12 Davidson students—one from each fraternity—plus eight girl models from Tate-Brown Co. Arthur also noted
that Rush Wilson would write the script for the show and that organ music played by a Davidson student would
accompany it. In addition, free Cokes will be served by local girls, and door prizes will be given.
