Extra! The Davidsonian Extra! The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MAY 18,
1962. Trustees Abolish Segregation Policy; Reveals $835,000 Bequest Congolese Students Martin CHAPLAIN SAMUEL HENRY BELL Faculty Will Add Six; Seven
Plan To Leave BY MAC PLAXICO Davidsonian Associate Editor Dean Frontis Johnston announced that the Board of Trustees approved six
new faculty members at their spring meeting Thursday. Jesse Clifton Albergotti, AB, Wheaton, will be an assistant professor of physics.
He is now a Woodrow Wilson Fellow at the University of North Carolina where he will finish his PhD in
nuclear physics this summer. Walter Meeks, Jr., AB, MA, University of Alabama, was appointed assistant professor of French. He is
now a candidate for his PhD at the University of North Carolina. Meeks has taught French for 12 years at
the University of Alabama, Cumberland College, the University of North Carolina, St. Mary’s College, and the University of South Carolina,
where he is now an assistant professor. He was a Fulbright Scholar in France and expects to complete work on
his PhD this summer. Eugene F. Miller, AB, MA, Emory University, will be a political science instructor. He is now
a Danforth Fellow at the University of Chicago and plans to complete work on his PhD in political philosophy in
1963. Wesley H. Tilley, AB, University of Texas; MA, PhD, University of Chicago, was appointed associate professor of English. He
has been teaching humanities and English at the University of Florida for the past 12 years. Herbert S. Willcox, AB,
Stetson; MS, Florida State, was named instructor in mathematics for one year to replace Prof. R. R. Bernard, who will
be on a leave of absence. Erick-Oska Joachim Siegfried Wruck, AB, MA, Rutgers University, was appointed assistant professor of German.
Wruck was a native of Germany, but married an American and is now a citizen of the U.S. For three
years he has been an instructor in German at Rutgers, where he was graduated magna cum laude and where he
has already completed his graduate work for a PhD. Two student assistants have been appointed. Joe Kelly will be an
assistant in the Department of Biology and Don Stowell will be an assistant in the Department of Drama. President D.
Grier Martin announced Thursday that Dr. George Staples will be on leave of absence next year to study on a
University Fellowship at Yale Graduate School. Six persons are selected each year for this program, which allows them to follow
their own interests, attending any classes they care to and doing research work. Staples will do his research in the
area of communicating religious ideas through the medium of literature, particularly the modern novel. While studying, Staples will also teach
a course at Yale Divinity School in “College and University Ministries.” Seven faculty members will be absent next fall, either
leaving permanently or studying on leave of absence. Wade Burley, assistant professor of education, is returning to graduate school at
the University of North Carolina to complete his PhD. Also studying on a leave of absence, as previously announced, are
Prof. R. R. Bernard, Prof. H. A. Bryan, and Prof. S. D. Maloney. Leaving for positions at Charlotte College are
R. A. MacRae, instructor of physics, and R. W. Rieke, visiting professor of history. Prof. John Sneden is leaving, having
turned his resignation in earlier this year. At their spring meeting, the Board of Trustees approved a $200 per year
salary increase for members of the faculty and administration. Other increases will be a 3.9% for laundry personnel, 4.5% for
buildings and grounds, and 5% for secretarial and administrative assistants. “The increases are made to keep our salaries in line
with increased cost of living and improved college salaries across the country,” President D. Grier Martin explained. “We are making
every effort to maintain our faculty salary leadership in the South among liberal arts colleges of Davidson’s type.” Staples Delegate
Chaplain George Staples was among 85 delegates who attended the annual conference of the National Association of College and University
Chaplains held at Moravian College, Bethlehem, Pa., recently. The theme of the three-day session was “Styles of Salvation” and featured
national speakers on various aspects of the subject. Samuel H. Bell, Daughter Name College Beneficiary BY GREG GOVAN Davidsonian Feature
Editor In 1936, Davidson College received a letter from one of its two oldest alumni saying, “I cannot encourage you
to think that I shall ever contribute to the Alumni Fund.” At Thursday’s meeting of the Board of Trustees, President
D. Grier Martin announced the largest bequest in the history of the college from the family of this same man,
Samuel Henry Bell. The story of how $835,000 came to Davidson makes what President Martin called “one of the most
unusual and appealing stories of loyalty and generosity ever told in the history of higher education in America.” Dr. Bell
was a native of Rocky Point in Hanover County, N. C. He entered Davidson in 1867 and graduated with the
class of ‘70. After theological training at Columbia Seminary, he held pastorates in Georgia and Pennsylvania before being commissioned as
a chaplain in the artillery in 1897. A loyal alumnus, he provided for a bequest to the college in his
will, with the income to go to his daughter, Mrs. M. I. Mitchell, during her life. Much of this was
invested in Rhode Island textile mills. Dr. Bell’s son, Mr. Fate, played one of its many tricks here, for despite
the decline of New England textiles after World War II, the Bells managed to salvage most of the bequest and
additional larger investments. Invested in stocks, the capital appreciated greatly during the remainder of Mrs. Mitchell’s life. The original bequest
to Davidson, now multiplied, was dealt yet another twist by chance. Mrs. Mitchell provided in her will for the support
of her husband and a cousin, as Dr. Bell had provided for her; both of these persons, however, died before
her, leaving Davidson the sole recipient. Mrs. Mitchell's will provided that the approximately $835,000 “is to be held as the
Samuel Henry Bell Memorial Fund, the income of which shall be used for scholarships. The scholarships are to be known
as the Samuel Henry Bell Scholarships, to be awarded for such terms and upon such conditions and rules as shall
be established from time to time by the corporate authorities of said College.” In addition to securities and cash, the
college also receives by virtue of the will the house in Lancaster, Pa. next door to “Wheatland,” home of President
James Buchanan. Almost all furniture and personal effects were left to the college. Also included is the home and farm,
“Silent Woods,” near Wilmington. The college is making arrangements to see that the few things specifically designated for individuals are
carried out according to the wishes of Mrs. Mitchell. Among the personal effects the college received was Dr. Bell’s notebooks.
One of these contains miscellaneous observations on philosophy in the full rhetorical prose of the late nineteenth century. The passage
is dated June 10, 1906, and reads: “But I doubt whether anyone can be truly at ease without drawing deep
help from the assurance that there is a Will beyond our wills—a will that is unerring and that is moved
by love. Never a mother hushed her baby more sweetly to rest than the trusting soul is rocked in the
cradle of our Father's care.” It was probably this faith that was at the core of his dedication to duty
in the chaplain’s service. There are records of his being praised highly for his “exceptional efficiency” by his superiors. He
is cited as excelling in his religious work and states in an extract from 1912 that Capt. Bell “attracts more
men to his services than is usually the case.” While still collected...a of stationed in Ho library source enjoyment, profit,
and edification to the sick of this large garrison.” Capt. Bell also received commendation from the Department for his work
as a volunteer translator of French military publications. During the yellow fever epidemics in Cuba, Capt. Bell performed the service
of burial for victims of the disease in spite of the fact that it was then thought to be highly
contagious from contact with the corpse of a case of the fever. Although he did so at what constituted a
risk to his life, Chaplain Bell buried every American yellow fever victim at Camp Columbia from September 1899 to the
summer of 1901.

Although he retired from active duty shortly after 1912, Bell felt the need to re-enter the service with the U.S.
entry into World War I. He petitioned Senator Lee S. Overman of North Carolina and won an appointment at Fort
Oglethorpe, Georgia. A letter from James Sprunt, of the Wilmington Cotton Sprunts, dated May 1, 1918, congratulates Bell on “your
meritorious record and your call by the Surgeon General of the Army to active duty.” During his retirement until his
death in 1942, Bell continued to be a loyal son of Davidson and his loyalty was proved long before it
was known that he had left such an endowment to the college. In President Martin's report to the trustees, he
stated this indirectly when he said that “coupled with a feeling of deepest gratitude to that person is a sense
of frustration which comes from having no one to whom an expression of appreciation is appropriate.”

SCHOLAR HARRISON WELLFORD, winner in the graduating class, receives an attache case from Alumni President Archie W. McLean, ‘31, for
the distinction he has brought to Davidson.

The trustees also approved $200 per year salary increases for members of the faculty and administration and accepted the addition
of six new men to the faculty for next year. In other significant action, President D. G. Martin announced the
largest single bequest ever made to Davidson College, totaling $835,000. Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President of the Board, said the
history-making policy of integration was adopted after a long and full debate conducted in a spirit and with considerable difference
of opinion as to whether or not this was the right time to make such a statement. He added, “All
we want to do is to be right in our policies for both Davidson and the church.” Dr. Richards said
that the new policy was approved by a considerable majority of the Board of Trustees. He also said that the
YMCA Cabinet and the officers of the Westminster Fellowship had petitioned for a statement of policy that would permit students
to enter Davidson regardless of race. President Martin said, “I do not expect any sensational development in regard to this
matter. It will have no effect on 1962-63 because we now have a complete student body with a long waiting
list. There is a good possibility, however, that one or more Congolese students will be here next fall.”

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Senior Reporter

The Trustees of Davidson College yesterday approved by a large majority a policy opening the college to students regardless of
race or nationality. President Martin said, “I do not expect any sensational development in regard to this matter. It will
have no effect on 1962-63 because we now have a complete student body with a long waiting list. There is
a good possibility, however, that one or more Congolese students will be here next fall.”

The bequest from Mitchell, daughter of Samuel Henry Bell, calls for $15,000 to be used for the Bell Fund. Davidson’s
Endowment is different in that it is administered by the Duke Endowment. The bequest leaves it up to the college
to set the standards for the scholarships. President Martin said, “These scholarships will be given within the general framework of
our present scholarship program. The Scholarship Committee of the Faculty and the Trustees will study the matter to determine the
requirements for winning a Bell Scholarship.” Martin added that it will be 1963-64 before (Continued On Page Two)

Pruitt Previews Paintings As Hamilton Show Opens

To make a painting start with the four sides of the canvas. Mrs. Leone Hamilton, whose works will be shown
in the Fine Arts Center starting today, is quite verbal in her explanation of her work and approach. Of prime
importance is the architectural structure when every element is related to the planes of the sides. This structure will tour
work in the plastic quality depth area of the picture. Color is used to create depth. Mrs. Hamilton has steadily
grown in her work from an academic approach to one of pure abstraction. She has learned and grown from each
experience to the next. The area in between these two “extremes,” which many people would call abstract but which is
more realistic than the academic or the pure abstraction, has provided the approach for most of her work. In these
works can be seen a whole world of space and relationships. In a picture of Venice, she can give the
sense of the buildings and the sky merging, of the canals flowing through the buildings, of the humor of the
gondola shapes which a peephole academic picture could not possibly capture. In a house and trees, she can give the
mixture of leaves in the sky, the inviting rooms to be explored, the feeling that one can enter and walk
around the house. In a town in the Alps, she explores the dialogue of sky and streets, their complements of
each other. Then she explores the far-reaching effect of the Alps. In her “Table on the Terrace,” which has an
affinity to Matisse, may be seen the touch of humor she can give to her purposeful use of distortion.

Having worked with the idea of pure abstraction for 15 years, Mrs. Hamilton is thinking of pursuing this direction now—although
she cannot be sure how much more she will do in this vein. Unlike her other work, which comes largely
from objects and landscapes, these works have all thus far been taken from people. Her abstract with a blue and
a red shape was developed with the red shape being the model's stool and the rest of the canvas working
with it. There is a complex movement around the blue subject, light moving to dark which sets the blue in
motion and provides a picture full of atmosphere and deep dimension. Many of the things Mrs. Hamilton says of paintings
are similar to what James Bumgardner said. This is understandable—they have studied (Continued On Page Two)
