— VOL. LI

Second Reynolds Lecturer George Gamow, campus Sunday, Nov. 25

Physicist George Gamow, noted nuclear physicist and theoretical biologist, will arrive on campus Sunday, Nov. 25 as the second Reynolds Lecturer of the year. Tentatively, Gamow will deliver a public lecture Monday evening at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. He will also speak in assembly Tuesday morning and will be at an informal coffee hour afterward. In addition to his lectures, Gamow will make a number of appearances in classes, during which he will conduct informal discussions. Sunday evening he will meet with the members of the physics department and on Monday morning he will visit the biology classes. He will also visit the physics classes and Tuesday evening he will speak at a meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, the national honorary physics fraternity.

Gamow, who is presently a professor at the University of Colorado, is noted for his work in nuclear physics and theoretical biology. After being graduated from the University of Leningrad in 1928, he worked at the University of Gottingen, where he developed a theory of radioactive decay based on wave mechanics. From there he went to the Institute of Theoretical Physics in Copenhagen and then to Cambridge, where he expanded his theory of radioactive decay to include nuclear transformation. He began work which later became the basis on which the theory that regards nuclei as tiny particles of very dense “nuclear fluid” rests. In 1931 Gamow returned to the University of Leningrad, but in 1934 he took a professorship at George Washington University, where he stayed until 1956. There he continued his work in nuclear physics, especially in its application to cosmology and astrophysics. During the last few years, he has worked in theoretical biology, dealing mainly with the transfer of hereditary information in living cells and with the thermodynamics of photosynthesis.

Gamow has written twenty-two books and has another one in preparation. In 1956 he received the Kalinga Prize from UNESCO for the popularization of science in his books for the layman. Among his best-known books are One, Two, Three... Infinity, The Creation of the Universe, Biography of Physics, and Biography of the Earth, which is included in the reading for the Humanities course.

ROTC Turkey Shoot Attracts Marksmen

Scabbard and Blade, the national military fraternity, will sponsor its annual Turkey Shoot on Monday, Nov. 19, from 4 to 6 p.m. at the rifle range in the sub-basement of Belk Dormitory. The families of the college faculty and administration will compete by shooting not at turkeys but for turkeys and other prizes. The competition will be divided into age groups, over-50 and under-50 for both men and women. Children’s prizes will also be awarded. Regulation targets will be used for men and women’s under-50 competition and larger, oversized targets for over-50 competition. Each participant will be allowed five rounds with a .22 caliber rifle to try his skill in marksmanship. The prize for the four men and women’s competitions in the shooting contest will be a turkey for each of the high scorers in each group. Besides the free turkeys, other valuable prizes donated by Davidson merchants will also be given. These special prizes will include two steak dinners, household articles, hardware, and many other useful items. A door prize will be given to the person who guesses most correctly the actual weight of a live turkey which will be on display at the rifle range. While the actual contest takes place, Scabbard and Blade will serve refreshments to the participants and spectators. Movies will be shown for the children in the MS III classroom while the competition is in progress. Competitors from the faculty and administration may try their skill in the contest at the rifle range any time between 4-6 p.m. The awards will be presented by the Scabbard and Blade staff at 6 p.m.

Union, Queens Set Christmas Party

Approximately 200 Queens girls are expected to help Davidson celebrate Christmas at the annual union Christmas party Dec. 14, following the Davidson-Furman basketball game. According to present tentative plans, there will be three bands engaged for the dance held in the Morrison Room of the Union. Other activities include free billiards, ping-pong, jazz, a poetry reading, a faculty-student game contest, and bridge. Door prizes will be given. These plans were made Wednesday, Nov. 7, at a meeting of a subcommittee on Davidson-Queens activities. The party is part of an overall effort to bring the two schools closer together. Final plans will be made in a meeting to be held shortly before Thanksgiving holidays.

Chemistry Journal Uses Paper By Sophomore

Davidsonian Assistant News Editor

Russell Trimble, a sophomore chemistry major, had his first paper published in the November 1962 issue of Analytical Chemistry, a national chemistry magazine. His article, on pages 1633-35 of the magazine, is entitled “Comparison of the Reactions of Amidinourea and Amidino-thiourea with Various Metal Ions.” The study compared the two substances as analytical reagents for the identification of certain metals. The project was one of original research in an area almost unexplored before. Trimble, a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, began his project in 1959 and worked for nearly two years before finishing it the summer after high school graduation. He estimates the work took about 300 to 400 man-hours, “probably nearer 400,” he commented. His only remuneration was the knowledge thus gained from the research and the recognition for his paper. “I made extreme use of equipment beyond the means of private individuals,” stated Trimble in giving credit to invaluable aid. He was permitted to use the research laboratories and other facilities of the Tennessee Eastman Co. in Kingsport, Tenn., a large chemical industry and a division of the Eastman Kodak Co. Their equipment was an “indispensable asset” to his research. His work was done as a part of the Kingsport Science Seminar which is affiliated with the Joe Berg Foundation. The seminar encourages original research and, through its assistance and promotion, Trimble began his research. He was particularly “grateful for assistance received from chemists Doug Sievers and Ken Fraley for their helpful suggestions and criticisms.” Trimble began this project when he found that little work had been done in this field. In his paper he states, “The idea for this study came from a comment by (Fritz) Feigl, that the sulfur analog, 1-amidino-2-thiourea, had not been investigated.” His first work on this research project was on June 18, 1959. The last experiment was completed April 4, 1961. During the school months he worked on it whenever possible, and spent much of his summers on the project before entering Davidson in September 1961. The magazine received its first copy of the article for review on Jan. 12, 1962. Since that time, several revisions had taken place before it was accepted for publication Aug. 1, 1962.

Seven Lose Tails To Army; Fliers Earn Coveted Honor

Davidsonian Assistant News Editor

A group of seven ROTC MS IV cadets lost their shirt tails recently after logging their first solo-flight time in the U.S. Army ROTC Flight Training Program. Each cadet, upon completing his first solo flight, was relieved of his shirt tails in the old tradition of pilots. Captain Charles C. Partridge, the coordinator of the training program, said, “It’s very wise to wear an old shirt if he (a student) thinks he'll solo that day.” The seven “tail-less” cadets are Buddy Brauch, Lawrence Kimbrough, John Thomas, Marce Pearson, Tommy Tuttle, Ed Willer, and Russell Williams. Each cadet will receive a total of 35 hours of ground instruction and 36½ hours of flight instruction, including additional solo flights. These cadets all have over 10 hours of flight time logged.hours total flight time, with some as high as 20 hours, and at least one hour of solo time. By the end of the program, each cadet will be well on his way to receive his Federal Aviation Agency private pilot's license.

Ten Plan To Attend Student Legislature

The annual State Student Legislature will convene in Raleigh Nov. 29. Among approximately 10 students representing Davidson at the three-day session will be co-chairmen Hugh Bell and Charles Dibble along with veterans Bob Cordle and Larry Leafer. All North Carolina colleges and universities are invited to participate in the mock General Assembly in the Old Legislature Chambers and may do so after paying annual dues of $25. About 25 schools are expected to take part this year.

The State Student Legislature was organized to provide a forum for student opinion and to offer students practical first-hand experience in procedures of the state legislature. Each school presents a bill or resolution for consideration by the legislature. Each bill or resolution is debated before being voted upon. Davidson's bill proposes a Constitutional amendment concerning the length of office and powers of the Governor of North Carolina. Meredith and Wake Forest will co-sponsor a bill for legalized abortion, while North Carolina College will seek to abolish capital punishment.

This semester there have already been two Interim Councils of the State Student Legislature, one on Oct. 7 and the other on Nov. 4.

BY JIMMY DOWNEY

Training in the ROTC Flight Program for the cadets is conducted during open periods in their academic schedules. The total time required for the seven MS IV's to solo was from Oct. 4 to Oct. 28—less than four weeks. According to Capt. Partridge, this rather quick solo on the part of all was due to the interest and ability of the cadets, excellent instruction, and fine weather for flying. The program was started in September 1962, with an enrollment of six students. Since that time, the number has increased to 10 students.

Joint Musical Venture

The Queens-Davidson Little Symphony, Davidson College’s newest student organization, will make its bow to the public in free concerts to be given Nov. 26 and 27. According to Herb Russell of Davidson’s Fine Arts Department, the group is a kind of reorganization of the Queens-Davidson Little Symphony that disbanded about fifteen years ago. It is now, for the first time, organized on a basis of students from both colleges forming the major body of the group. The Symphony is comprised of the Queens College String Orchestra under Dr. Robert Snyder, professor of music at Queens, and sixteen of the first chair players of the Davidson College Wind Ensemble under Dr. Grier Williams, director of instrumental music at Davidson. Sections have been augmented by Davidson townspeople and advanced high school instrumentalists.

The Symphony will be heard at 8:15 p.m., Monday, Nov. 26, in Ninniss Auditorium, Queens College in Charlotte. On the following night at the same time, the concert will be repeated in Hodson Hall, Fine Arts Center at Davidson. Conducting assignments for the performances will be shared by Snyder and Williams. Soloists for the two performances are Roger Drinkall, cellist, and his violinist wife, Derry Deane. Drinkall is a graduate of the Curtis Institute and the University of Pittsburgh, while Mrs. Drinkall was graduated from the Eastman School of Music and the University of Illinois. Both artists have given concerts in this country and in Europe as soloists and recitalists. Drinkall will play Haydn's Concerto in D for violoncello and orchestra while Derry Deane Drinkall will perform the Concerto in E Major for violin and orchestra. Other selections on the program by the Little Symphony include the Suite for Orchestra by Lully and Bela Bartok’s Rumanian Folk Dances.

Capt. Partridge stated that the purposes of the Flight Training Program are: “(1) to create a reserve pool of qualified aviators to be used in the event of national emergency; (2) to motivate college students for a career in the Regular Army; (3) to motivate students for an aviation career; and (4) to function as a screening device for selection for applicants of Army aviation training.” Any first or second semester MS IV cadet who is interested in Army aviation may see Capt. Partridge. Qualifications are that he pass a flight aptitude test and flight physical, and be in good grade standing.

Representatives Seek Liquor Rule Revision

Two representatives from the Student Council met with the Faculty Committee on Fraternities and Social Life this afternoon to discuss the possibilities of abolishing the off-campus drinking rule. At their meeting Wednesday night, the Council named President Danny Carrell and Larry Leafer to attend the meeting and to hear what the committee members say about the idea. “Our plan,” Carrell said, “is just to discuss the matter with them, not to present any definite ideas. Then we (the council) can talk over their viewpoints and decide on what to do next.”

The council is trying to get several changes made in the traffic regulations. In effect, they are asking that 1) parking be permitted behind the Fine Arts Building for permit holders; 2) more space be provided at the Union for students’ parking; 3) the 45-minute limit on parking at the Union be raised or abolished.

Carrell announced that the Faculty Executive Committee is considering the matter of late reviews. He pointed out instances such as the following which the committee has taken up: students traveling all night from an interview at a graduate school to face a review the next day; three reviews on one day; “oversleeping” a review. The council expressed hope that the committee would make provisions for these recent happenings not occurring again.

The council was successful in asking for a phone on the third floor of Richardson dorm; however, it was not feasible to enclose the phone on the ground floor of the same dorm. Also, next year the language lab fee will be included in the college’s general fee, as requested by the council. A questionnaire will be distributed by the council on Monday after chapel concerning the college’s Lake Norman plans. Students will have the opportunity to make suggestions about the lake site. Only 10 members—barely a quorum—were present at the meeting.

Delts, Phi Gam Stall IFC Budget

Holding out approval of the IFC’s new budget proposal is the opposition of only two fraternities: Phi Delta Theta and Phi Gamma Delta. The IFC hopes to achieve unanimous approval of the plan before implementing it. A $17,500 annual budget has been recommended to the Interfraternity Council. The proposed financial plan was formulated by the Budget Committee and presented to the IFC by the committee chairman, Buddy Cullum. The recommendations are: (1) that the IFC operate on a budget from September through May. (2) that this budget be $17,500. (3) that the cost for each fraternity man will be $23 per year, to be paid in five equal payments through the fraternity. (4) that failure to make these payments will result in being fined an additional 5% of the amount due. (5) that independents may buy season tickets for $20. (6) that a “bumper” fund of approximately $700 be established to be carried from year to year. (7) that any money left over in excess of the bumper fund be redistributed to the fraternities.

The committee indicated that a change in the IFC constitution will be necessitated if the proposal is adopted, either in the form of a revision of Article IX or a completely new article. The committee plans to present the revision or new article at the next IFC meeting. Dave Olin, a member of the budget committee, voiced his approval of the new financial plan, stating that it would prove an asset to all concerned, and would assure the IFC of having the ability to make payments in contracting talent for concerts and dance weekends.

DR. NELSON GLUECK, noted Biblical archaeologist, chats informally with students interested in his tales of exploration and discovery in the Negev region.

ETAS TAKE I-F WRESTLING TOURNEY (See Page Three)

NUMBER TEN

The Board of Directors of Lingle Manor elected the following officers: Rodger Durham, chairman; Neal Bushoven, vice president and house chairman; Bob Llewellyn, secretary; Jim Weber, treasurer; Dick Vines, social chairman; and Rufus Hallmark, membership chairman. Other members of the board are Bob Chumbley, Al Mullen, and Doug Woodworth. All except Woodworth are serving second terms. The board was chosen by the membership in the last meeting, three weeks ago. A new Board of Directors is chosen each fall and spring. The purpose of the officers is to recommend and execute the organization’s plans. The membership of Lingle Manor must vote on all financial matters and on all matters affecting the constitution. No member will be assessed except by a vote of two-thirds of the membership. No plans have been made for any events in the near future.