Che Davidsanian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Spectators Of Progress

That the General Assembly affirm that enforced segregation of the races is discrimination which is out of harmony with Christian
theology and ethics and that the Church, in its relationship to cultural patterns, should lead rather than follow. (From the
“Report of the Council of Christian Relations Submitted to and Approved by the 1954 General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church
in the United States for Church-Wide Use.)

“It’s a great day for Wake Forest.” This was the first sentence in a recent editorial in the college’s newspaper
(Old Gold and Black). It referred to their trustees’ decision in April to integrate the school on the undergraduate level.
Since 1958 various groups of the students and the faculty have actively worked for this day. Students have been arrested
in sit-in demonstrations. The North Carolina Baptist State Convention has repeatedly adopted resolutions urging integration at all of its related
colleges. The committee presenting the most recent resolution was the Christian Life Committee. In the words of the Old Gold
and Black:

“The complete desegregation of the College is perhaps the single most important step which could have been taken to consummate
our pride in and respect for Wake Forest. For lifting the College from the mire of outmoded tradition and prejudice
and placing it in a free and unbiased context of leadership, we extend to the Trustees our sincere gratitude, and
our hearty congratulations for a job well done.”

We congratulate Wake Forest. In 1954 the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United States adopted a resolution
drawn up before the historic Supreme Court decision. This resolution affirmed the belief in the rightness of having no racial
barriers in education. The General Assembly at that time did “especially urge . . . trustees of institutions of higher
education belonging to the General Assembly adopt a policy of opening the doors of these institutions to all races.”

In Georgia, a major breakthrough has been made in the realm of the private church-related liberal arts college. Agnes Scott
has announced plans to desegregate. The Presbyterian affiliated school has voluntarily decided to offer a quality education to any qualified
student, regardless of skin color. This will definitely be enacted in the 1963-64 school year. We congratulate Agnes Scott.

Emory University has felt strongly enough about state-imposed sanctions, directed against private schools that would adopt a nondiscriminatory admissions policy,
that it has taken the matter to the courts. Emory has questioned the constitutionality of this law. The Methodist related
school has declared, contrary to the law, that it was not established in the first place for only the white
race. We wish Emory the best in its efforts.

Four out of nine schools in the Southern Conference (West Virginia U., William and Mary, V.P.I., and George Washington) have
at least a partial official policy of admission without regard to race. The contention that Negroes, as a race, are
innately less intelligent than Caucasians is no longer regarded as valid in most circles. Educational institutions in the South are
coming more and more to agree that the inherent worth of the individual will be the major determining factor in
getting a college degree.

Belief in the rights and value of the individual was one of the principles that this country was founded on.
The Christian movement was thought revolutionary because it did emphasize individual worth and freedom. Traditionally the church has proven that
it can take the lead in showing a society its moral obligations, as human beings to other human beings. The
church-related institution stands firmly within this tradition. In recent polls, the majority of faculty and students at Davidson have shown
that they feel it ‘in the best interest” to stand within this tradition. Wake Forest, Agnes Scott, and Emory University
feel it in their best interests to stand within this tradition. Again, we congratulate them . . . for taking
the lead.

Death Of Dissent

In accord with other collegiate journalists across the country, the editor, immediate past editor, and an associate editor of THE
DAVIDSONIAN signed this week a petition requesting presidential action against the McCarran Act (the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950).
The petition is part of a nationwide protest of college editors concerned that the right of dissent of all U.S.
citizens and their freedom of the press be unqualifiably defended against blind fear and political opportunism.

Most recently, Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy exercised the McCarran Act in prosecuting the American Communist Party and its newspaper,
The Worker. Philip Bart, veteran Communist, James Jackson, editor of The Worker, Gus Hall, leading spokesman, and Party Secretary Benjamin
J. Davis (Amherst College, Harvard Law School) are now under arrest for refusing to register under the Act as foreign
agents earlier this spring. Free on bail, they are navigating a system of courts which will undoubtedly end in long
prison sentences.

The McCarran Act imposes stringent demand for the self-registration of any organization labeled “subversive,” and then provides for harsh penalties
to fall on the heads of those stupid enough to register. (In two states registration means automatic imprisonment without trial.
To register in any state is to convict and sentence oneself as a “subversive” under the terms of the Act.
By registering, the individual automatically cancels his constitutional rights under the Fifth Amendment.) Once its members are “registered,” it is
impossible for an organization to continue to function. The given organization is denied normal tax deductions, its mail stamped “subversive,”
and job possibilities for its members are nil. Members of a registered organization can be punished by a five-year prison
sentence for even attempting to apply for any sort of passport.

As collegiate journalists, we do not express in our petition any overweening love of the Communists, their aims, methods, or
conclusions. But there are adequate statutes on the books to penalize violence or espionage. Our concern is what de Tocqueville
and Mill saw as the “tyranny of the majority,” a danger to freedom of dissent present in all democratic societies
which is supposedly checked by the provisions of the First Amendment. Blind public fear has led opportunistic politicians to support
the McCarran Act and thereby a double standard with regard to constitutional liberties. When the Act was passed in 1950,
it was vetoed by President Truman, and opposed by the Departments of State, Justice and Defense. Attorney General J. Howard
McGrath saw it as evidence of “hysteria.” President Kennedy, then Senator from Massachusetts, favored the Act. We hope he will
seriously reconsider his stand now. But if he also is a prisoner of emotional public opinion, he will turn our
petition over to the FBI as evidence of “Communist infiltration in the colleges.”

David Dillard
Ed Willer

‘At Least I’ve Got A Tan’

Wit.

In Defense Of Diversity--- A Reply And A Challenge

BY JEFF WAMPLER
Davidsonian Managing Editor

When he was interviewed in connection with his recent visit to Davidson, Secretary of State Dean Rusk was asked if
he felt that Davidson had become too diversified; if perhaps the extent of the various programs of athletics, drama, college
publications, and the fine arts were unjustified in view of the academic pressures at the college.

DIVERSE PROGRAM

Rusk replied that he did not feel them unjustified, and that in his opinion the liberal arts college should contain
a diverse program of courses and extracurricular activities in order to cultivate the various talents of members of the student
body.

There have been objections of late that since the average Davidson student is not possessed of the multitude of abilities
of a Dean Rusk or a Henry Shue, and spends a large part of his time outside the classroom studying,
perhaps athletics, or drama, or college publications, or the fine arts should be de-emphasized, and more concentration be placed on
subjects of a strictly academic nature:

LACK TIME

In short, since most students don't have time for many of these extra-curricular activities, less stress should be given them.

John Henry Newman, in The Idea of a University, has this to say about diversity in the college program: “If
(the student's) reading is confined simply to one subject, however such division of labor may favor the advancement of a
particular pursuit, . . . certainly it has a tendency to contract his mind. If it is incorporated with others,
it depends on those others as to the kind of influence which it exerts on him.”

“It is a great point then to enlarge the range of studies which a University professes,

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

D-Club Expresses Thanks To Cheerleaders, Martin

D-Club

Dear Editor:

This year there has been a definite rise in school spirit, especially in the field of athletics. There are several
reasons for this, which are known to all, but we would like to point out the work of the Cheerleaders,
who have done an outstanding job in a needed area.

For the first time in its history, Johnston Gym was filled to capacity and spectators turned away. An increase in
attendance has also been noticed at most other events. Above all, the crowds were interested in the outcome and the
Cheerleaders helped express this interest with their cheers and antics.

Without listing the innumerable tasks which each Cheerleader did, outside of pep rallies and notices of events, the D-Club would
like to speak for all the school teams in expressing their sincere thanks for a job well done.

Special credit should go to Joe Martin, who put much time and effort into securing Peter Marshall Ney, III, as
the school mascot. This pos-

Ferris

Dear Editor:

During Mr. Bumgardner's visit this past week, the few who bothered to see his works or attend his lectures came
away with the same mystified air. Like all artists, he seems beyond comprehension. Most of us regard the artists as
a strange breed, hanging out in smoky cafes. He’s simply different from normal people.

Why is the artist today a stranger to his own society?in Greek and Renaissance cultures, for example, artists held the
most respected positions. The public recognized the artist for his creativeness and respected him accordingly. This situation no longer exists
today. But why? We certainly have enough wealth to support artists as the Greeks and Italians did. What is it
we lack? I think it is culture. In the midst of all our wealth we have turned from art. Art
isn’t practical. It doesn't teach us how to earn a dollar or set us shaking with laughter as the T.V.
comedian. Art requires a sensitive effort to understand which our philistine society has destroyed.

Associate Editors
News Editor: Charles Dibble
Photographers: Joe McCutchen, Tom Anderson, Dan Adams, Joe Howell, Walter MacDonald
Advertising Manager: Charlie Smith
Circulation Manager: Malcolm Lane
Assistant Bus. Manager: Rick Finch
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 9, 1879.
Bill Hagen, Mae Plaxico, Bill Ruth, David Stitt
Assistant Editor
Managing Editors
Cartoonists: Jeff Wampler, Bill Pridgen
Assignments Editor: Bob Bethel
Sports Editor
Feature Editor

I do not deny that the artist has deliberately turned from the public with his works. Why shouldn't he say
to hell with his audience when their tastes are hopelessly dulled by materialistic values?

Our criticisms of art are self-indicting; for it is our own insensitiveness that has driven the artist from society.

The D-Club
Bill Ferris

Even for the sake of the students; and, though they cannot pursue every subject which is open to them, they
will be the gainers by living among those and under those who represent the whole circle.

“(Thus) he apprehends the great outlines of knowledge, the principles on which it rests, the scale of its parts, its
lights and its shades, its great points and its little, as he otherwise cannot apprehend them. Hence it is that
his education is called ‘Liberal’.”

CONTRADICTION EXISTS

Davidson professes to be a liberal arts college. Yet a contradiction exists; for the various programs of athletics (at least
until this year), drama, college publications, and the fine arts are paid only lip service by many, not even that
by some. Why is this true? The primary reason is that the student body at Davidson is composed mainly of
men of the same general middle-class, Southern, business and professional background. Because of this, we tend to agree on many
basic questions about education, and therefore ignore any exploration of them. As a result, the majority of our conversations deal
with questions about girls or fraternities or dance weekends—important questions, yes; but not vital.

SIMILAR BACKGROUNDS

Part of the responsibility for the lack of diversity in the student body lies with the Admissions Board. In their
search for the best possible students for Davidson, they have tended to select men of amazingly similar backgrounds. This is
due partly to the tremendous pressure exerted upon the Board by alumni, who want their sons to be educated at
Davidson; alumni who are the middle-class, Southern, business and professional people. The Admissions Board needs to realize that the vitality
and effectiveness of a college depend largely on the differences that exist within itself, differences which stimulate physical, intellectual, and
aesthetic growth.

STUDENT APATHY

But much of the responsibility lies with the students. Davidson is fortunate to have a dozen Richardson Scholars on the
campus each year, yet the questions asked these men of varying backgrounds and cultures are generally on the level of,
“How do you like America?” or “What do you think of American women?” And so a challenge. A challenge to
the Admissions Board to bend every effort to find students with varied enough backgrounds to promote a kind of intellectual
tension within the student body. And a challenge to the students to wake up to the opportunities for new and
stimulating experiences which lie in those around them. It’s time we realized the vital need for diversity in the truly
liberally educated man.

By MaDerald

American Policy; Identity & Mission
BY HENRY SHUE

(EDITOR'S NOTE: At the request of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Rhodes Scholar Henry Shue '61 has written the following article. Shue was
president of the student body, 1960-61, and is now studying in Merton College, Oxford University, England. We feel that Shue's
article is an insightful attempt to outline and defend the psychology of a “liberal” view of U.S. foreign policy.)

Pull down thy vanity
How mean thy hates
Fostered in falsity
Pull down thy vanity
Rathe to destroy, niggard in charity
— Ezra Pound

(By quoting Ezra Pound, who committed treason, I have doubtless already disqualified myself in the eyes of the Super-Patriots from
the right to reflect on what it means to be an American. I must point out that according to my
manual of logic based on observations of the HUAC the fact that the Italian government for which Pound broadcasted was
Fascist and therefore Anti-Communist means that Pound was actually but unknowingly a dupe of the John Birch Society and you
might say that Pound was the last Anti-Communist casualty of the Second World War.)

As far as I know, it can make sense from the perspective of psychology, theology, and philosophy to say that
the identity of an individual both determines and is determined by his situation—the self is reciprocally interrelated with all that
is not the self, the person is in a context of God-ward and man-ward relationships, etc. Of course a man
may fail to examine and fail to understand both his identity and his situation—perhaps most men do fail to understand—and
this failure itself becomes one more influencing factor.

SELF-EXAMINATION

Analogous comments are applicable to nations and their identities, or definitions. The intellectual atmosphere in England is one of political
self-examination at a national level, produced by the conceivable implications of a British decision to join the Common Market and
the fact that America, not Britain or any other European nation, is clearly now the leader of the West in
terms at least of brute power. Is the British Prime Minister still the equal of the American President, although “less
equal” than he once was? Will the identity of an Englishman vis-a-vis an American or a German be something different
in the context of a United States of Europe (Be it federation? Confederation?) from what it is (What is it?)
in the context of NATO and the UN? Surely it will, but in what respect?

One’s sight may be impaired in a number of ways, including total blindness and myopia. In one respect blindness is
preferable to nearsightedness. The blind can hardly avoid attaining insight into what they can and ought to do, but the
myopic often fail to grasp how limited their vision is. In a world with horizons as widespread as ours the
difference between the blind and the myopic—between the ignorant and those with a little learning—is negligible, except that the latter
have greater vanity. One of the first tasks in deciding what being an American means is obtaining a clear view
of the context of our identity and role collectively as a nation. I add “and role” because it seems inane
to try to talk about “is” without discussing “does”, and I would substitute “mission” for “role” since I believe this
drama is not a farce.

BLISSFUL IGNORANCE

Perhaps all I have said appears obvious—I hope so. But many Englishmen think, and I agree, that far too many
Americans high and low are living in either blissful ignorance or neurotic repression of the non-self—of the genuine needs and
sincere hopes of those billions whom we call foreigners. The J. Kennedy-Rusk-Stevenson-McNamara-R. Kennedy group is largely exempt from this criticism
of blindness, myopia, ignorance, repression or whatever you choose to call it. During the months I have been in England
I have been able to hold my head high as an American, because these names have been said with respect
and admiration, and sometimes even envy or reverence. The men mentioned surely do not agree in nearly all respects and
are not always right, but they share the fact of having clear and distant vision—the ability to see the identity
of America in the spatio-temporal, politico-socio-economic context which is really there. These men at least realize that nationality cannot even
be defined without reference to the international context.

Then there are those other Americans whose vision is obstructed by the size of their megaphones and who, like nothing
more than sophomore cheerleaders in high school, whirl round and round on the same spot screeching: “Annihilate the Commies! Why
Not Victory?! Rah! Rah! Rah!”, and don’t even know how to distinguish which players are on which team. Most of
the “natives” at Oxford with whom I have talked (I am the foreigner in this context.) have trouble believing that
the Radical Right really exists. “They don’t really believe what they say?”, with amazement—"Do they?”, with horror.

SUPER-PATRIOTS IMMORAL

Surely being an American does not mean embodying an ethnocentric spirit different from African tribalism only in the color of
the tribe members and the power of their weapons. I believe that it is both immoral and self-defeating to follow
the example of the Super-Patriots, by whom I mean most of the followers of Robert Welch and many of the
followers of Senator Goldwater, in using moralistic language and religious fervor to pursue nationally self-centered goals.

I shall not attempt a neat definition of what I do think an American is, but I suggest that the
answer lies in the direction of asking: what has America a right to demand from those with whom we share
this world and how can we give commensurately with our endowment. Let us not muddy permanently the only spring there
is for quenching anyone’s thirst by jumping into it with our great big American boots in our urgency to see
that we at least get exactly as much as we want.

THAT'S RIDICULOUS
HOW COULD A WOLF BLOW A HOUSE DOWN?
