PAGE FOUR

Local Knowledge Tree Grows 15 Rare Leaves

Musty and valuable gift from Sanders has given previously a rare edition of the works of Shakespeare. His gift of
fifteen incunable leaves was received by the Library just before Thanksgiving. While all these pages from old books have diverse
backgrounds, the most interesting leaf is from the first edition of the King James Version of the Holy Bible printed
in 1611; and it contains verses from the thirty-first chapter of Numbers. There is a sheet from the old Bishop’s
Bible, printed in 1572, along with a leaf from the quarto edition (1612) of the King James Version of the
Holy Bible. Both these sheets are in good condition, although they are somewhat yellowed.

The other leaves come from many different books, all printed before 1600, with the exception of one. There is a
leaf printed by John Gutenberg, credited with the invention of the first printing press in 1460, from the Catholicon of
Baldus, an early medical work. Another page was printed by one of Gutenberg’s pupils in 1476; this leaf is a
page from Pliny’s Natural History, a book believed to be the first printed in the Roman type now used in
modern printing. Other leaves are hand-colored and have woodblock cut pictures on them; the colors have remained constant, giving the
entire leaf a very attractive look. The leaves are printed in English, Latin, and German and come from books about
religion, medicine, and philosophy. There is even a leaf from the first dictionary ever printed—one of philosophy, put out in
Venice in 1482. The authors of these leaves range from lesser-known men to writers such as Petrarch, Boccaccio, and Pliny.

There was some excitement over the leaf from Boccaccio. It was printed in English in 1527, and was from a
book entitled The Fall of Princes. Since Boccaccio was so well-known for his expositions into the morals of the period,
some people reasoned that anything translated into English so soon must have a vivid and racy text; these same people
argued that the harmless-sounding title was an attempt to get by the royal censors. As of yet, no one has
read the leaf.

The donor of these leaves, Dr. Charles B. Sanders, is the Director of the Sanders Diagnostic Laboratory of Houston, Texas;
he is a past president of the State of Texas Society of Pathologists. Meanwhile, fifteen incunable leaves sit in the
library, the contents of most of them incomprehensible to some DAVIDSONIAN reporters without the aid of a Latin and German
dictionary; but there may be several pleasant surprises awaiting the students who will take the time to study and translate
these valuable leaves.

BY MIKE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Nickel Introduces YMCA Gift Fund

Dick Nickel, head of the YMCA Gift Fund committee, introduced the first of three choices for the annual YMCA gift
fund project during assembly Monday morning. Nickel spoke of a proposed contribution to the International Christian University in Japan. This
university is expanding its graduate program and needs funds for faculty salaries. Davidson contributions would help supply these funds.

Two alternative projects are these: (1) providing an anesthesia machine for a Cambodian hospital through Medico, a subsidiary of CARE,
and (2) contributing toward a new dormitory for the University Concepcion in Chile. The old dorm was destroyed by recent
Chilean earthquakes.

The gift fund committee of the YMCA presented two of its proposals, the Christian University faculty fund, and the Medico
project, during assembly Monday and chapel Thursday. The third recommendation will be made next Tuesday. On that Tuesday the student
body will vote on its preference for this year’s project. On Wednesday, Dec. 5, the Y will begin making collections
for the gift fund. This year’s goal is $4,000. The two most recent gift fund collections have averaged about $3,400.

The annual gift fund sponsored by the Y is over 25 years old. The 1961 collection bought science equipment and
library books for Taejon College in Korea. Concerning this year's project, chairman Nickel stated, “Considering the high quality of the
project and the larger student body, we anticipate good results.”

JUST TRY CHECKING IT OUT. Librarian Elizabeth Mayhew proudly exhibits one new feather in the rather bare library collection. The
page is one of 15 rare incunable leaves presented by alum Charles B. Sanders. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

SUMMER JOBS in EUROPE

3000 OPENINGS - Resort, Farm, Camp Counseling, Hospital, Construction, Child Care, Factory and more throughout Europe. Wages range from room
and board to $190 a month. All-inclusive fun-filled summer costing from $150 (without trans-Atlantic transportation) to $799 (including round trip
jet flight and 24-day European land tour).

TRAVEL GRANTS AWARDED FIRST 1500 APPLICANTS

For a complete 20-page Prospectus and a European Job Application, contact either the Director of the Student Union, the Placement
Officer, or write (enclosing two Postal INTERNATIONAL REPLY COUPONS) to:
DEPT. N. AMERICAN STUDENT INFORMATION SERVICE,
22 Avenue de la Liberte, Luxembourg City, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Goldiere
Miller
Albergotti
Holland
Partridge
Blackwell
Hopkins
Puce
Clark
Lobanov
Terry
Fogleman
McGavock
Wheaton
Fredericksen
Martin, J. G.
Woods

Open Houses

Dixie Debate Tourney Next Varsity Match

Next competition for the Davidson varsity debaters will be the Dixie Classic Tournament at Wake Forest College on Thursday, Dec.
6. The Davidson varsity is composed of Bob Llewellyn, Harry Daniels, Skip Jones, and Bill Brown. The Dixie Classic is
one of the largest tournaments held in the South. Colleges from all over the U.S. will attend, and this year
the University of Hawaii is expected to enter. The tournament lasts three days.

The tournament will sponsor extemporaneous debates, as well as major debates on the pre-assigned regular topic. Trophies will be awarded
to the top three teams in both divisions. The first division consists of teams of two members who can debate
either for or against the issue. The second division includes teams of four members, two against and two for the
resolution. The Davidson team is in the second classification.

The debate coach, Dr. Joseph Deake, said that he expects the team to make a good showing at the tournament.
He noted that it did well at a tournament at Mercer College in Georgia earlier this year. However, he did
say that a “winning team” should practice approximately four or five hours a week, whereas the Davidson team meets for
only two to two-and-a-half hours one night a week.

Another varsity debate will be against the debating team of employees of the American Banker’s Institute in Charlotte. This team
will debate the varsity team on Wed., Dec. 5, at 7:30 p.m. at Phi Hall.

The team has failed to participate in the last two tournaments it was scheduled to enter. It did not participate
in the Tau Kappa Alpha Tournament in Lexington, Va. Nov. 15-17 as originally announced. It also will not be debating
at the Appalachian State Teachers College tournament this weekend as previously scheduled. The freshman debaters canceled their plans to attend
the tournament.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1962

Capt. Hampton Promoted To Rank Of Army Major

The lives of the three captains in the ROTC Department may be pretty miserable for the next few weeks. Commandant
of Cadets David R. Hampton was promoted to the rank of major. Hampton, who came to Davidson in June 1960,
received word of his promotion last Tuesday afternoon. Lt. Col. Paul R. Wheaton, professor of Military Science, and Hampton's wife
Mrs. LouiseHampton pinned on the insignia of his new rank in a ceremony in Wheaton's office at that time. Also
on hand to witness the occasion were Hampton’s parents. Wheaton found out on Tuesday morning that they were visiting in
Davidson and brought them to the ROTC Department to surprise Hampton. Hampton has had eleven years of service in the
artillery. He entered the Army in 1957 after graduating from The Citadel. He saw action in Korea as a forward
observer with B Battery of the 90th Field Artillery Battalion from 1952 until March. During that time, Hampton was promoted
to first lieutenant. He then served as an administrative assistant in the headquarters of the Eighth Army until September 1953,
when he returned to the states.

Hampton returned to overseas duty in June 1956, when he became S-2 of the 543rd Field Artillery Missile Battalion in
Italy. He also commanded a firing battery for a time while there. He made captain in December 1956. In February
1957, he became assistant plans officer for the First U.S. Army Missile Command in Italy. Hampton returned from Italy in
the summer of 1959 to attend the Marine Corps Junior School as an army representative immediately prior to being assigned
to Davidson. He became Commandant of Cadets in August 1961. He has received no new assignment as yet, and he
expects to remain at Davidson for the remainder of the school year. Hampton said of his duty here, “It has
been a most enjoyable experience. Probably the main reason is because we have the material to work with here.”

Last Tuesday night, Maj. and Mrs. Hampton served a buffet supper for the officers of the detachment to celebrate the
promotion.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

IT'S MAJOR NOW! Receiving gold oak-leaf clusters is Major David Hampton. Attaching them to the shoulders of the newly promoted
officer are Col. Paul Wheaton and Mrs. Louise Hampton while Sgt. Renley looks on.

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf," “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

HAPPY TALK

As we all know, conversation is terribly important on a date. When lulls in the conversation run longer than an
hour or two, one’s partner is inclined to grow logy—even sullen. But occasionally one finds it difficult to keep the
talk going, especially when one is having a first date with someone. What, then, does one do?

If one is wise, one follows the brilliant example of Harlow Thurlow. That is his simple secret: When Harlow is
going to take out a new girl, he makes sure in advance that the conversation will not languish. Before the
date, he goes to the library and reads all 24 volumes of the encyclopedia and transcribes their contents on his
cuffs. Thus he makes sure that no matter what his date’s interests are, he will have ample material to keep
the conversation alive.

Take, for example, Harlow’s first date with Priscilla de Gasser, a fine, strapping, blue-eyed broth of a girl, lavishly constructed
and rosy as the dawn. Harlow was, as always, prepared when he called for Priscilla, and, as always, he did
not start to converse immediately. First, he took her to dinner because, as everyone knows, it is useless to try
to make conversation with an unfed coed. Her attention span is negligible. Also, her stomach rumbles so loud it is
difficult to make yourself heard.

So he took her to a fine steak house where he stoked her with gobbets of Black Angus and mounds
of French fries and thickets of escarole and battalions of petit fours. Then, at last, dinner was over and the
waiter brought two finger bowls.

“I hope you enjoyed your dinner, my dear,” said Harlow, dipping into his finger bowl.

“Oh, it was grandy-dandy!” said Priscilla. “Now let’s go someplace for ribs.”

“Later, perhaps,” said Harlow. “But right now, I thought we might have a conversation.”

“Oh, goody, goody, two-shoes!” cried Priscilla. “I’ve been looking everywhere for a boy who can carry on an intelligent conversation.”

“Your search is ended, madam,” said Harlow, and pulled back his sleeves and looked at his cuffs to pick a
likely topic to start the conversation. Oh, woe! Oh, lackaday! Those cuffs on which Harlow had painstakingly transcribed so many
facts—those cuffs on which he had noted such diverse and fascinating information—those cuffs, I say, were nothing now but a
big, blue blur! For Harlow—poor Harlow!—splashing around in the finger bowl, had gotten his cuffs wet and the ink had
run and not one word was legible! And Harlow—poor Harlow!—looked upon his cuffs and broke out in a night sweat
and fell dumb.

“I must say,” said Priscilla after several silent hours, “that you are a very dull fellow. I’m leaving.” With that,
she flounced away and poor Harlow was too crushed to protest. Sadly he sat and sadly lit a cigarette. All
of a sudden Priscilla came rushing back.

“Was that,” she asked, “a Marlboro you just lit?”

“Yes,” said Harlow.

“Then you are not a dull fellow,” she cried, and sprang into his lap. “You are bright! Anybody is bright
to smoke such a perfect joy of a cigarette as Marlboro which is just chock full of yummy flavor, which
has a Selectrate filter which comes in a soft pack that is really soft, and a Flip-Top Box that really
flips, and which can be bought wherever cigarettes are sold in all fifty states and Duluth... Harlow, tiger, wash your
cuffs and be my love.”

“Okay,” said Harlow, and did, and was.

The makers of Marlboro cigarettes, who print this column at hideous expense throughout the school year, are very happy for
Harlow—and for all the rest of you who have discovered the pleasures of Marlboro.
