PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1962

BLIND MAN is a game which tests one’s ability to cross campus blindfolded. Jack Hollenbeck, self-acclaimed champion, displays his prowess
to onlookers Pete Cassell and George McEver. (Staff Photo by McCutchen.)

Blind Man: Zany Game Only For Well-Oriented
BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidson Feature Writer

The good Christians on their way from the library Wednesday night during exams gave a perfect demonstration of the first
part of the parable of the Good Samaritan. They took one look at the poor figure crawling along the walk
in front of Chambers and passed by on the other side. From the looks given it, most of the students
must have thought exams got another poor fool. But, although this will be bad news to professors, the “wretch” crawling
along the walk was only Jack Hollenbeck out making himself a couple of bucks. And in the process, he may
have started a campus rage.

‘RULES’ OF GAME
Hollenbeck was only the principal participant in the game of “blindman.” The sport is relatively simple: all that is needed
is a handkerchief for a blindfold. The object? To get from one point on campus to another in a specified
amount of time. To rule out the impossible, the “blindman” is allowed to see his exact position before the blindfold
is put on.

In this case, Hollenbeck had to get from the front of Belk to the College Church in 20 minutes. And
before anyone shouts impossible, let it be said that he is now about two dollars richer than when he started
that particular night. Hollenbeck admitted that it might have been a crazy thing to do, but he is not unhappy
about having the title of “champion blindman” (or the money either, for that matter).

“We were over in the Union after a flick, when Dave Lovette and several other guys told me about how
nobody had ever been able to win at blindman during summer school,” Hollenbeck explained. “So I said that I bet
I could get from Belk to the church in 15 or 20 minutes. They said I couldn't, no matter what
particular method I tried to use. It was a challenge, so I took them up on it.”

CHAMP’S SECRET
Hollenbeck said the secret of his success was keeping one foot on the sidewalk and one foot on the grass.
“I guess my worst moment was in front of Chambers where I had to crawl across that big brick apron,”
he confessed. “But anyone can do it if he just takes his time and thinks.”

Just to prove that witnesses don’t know what they're talking about, Rod Daniel claimed that Hollenbeck made it with only
a dramatic 45 seconds to spare. But Bill Fitts swears that he timed Hollenbeck as traversing the distance in exactly
18 minutes. But all agree that he did make it before the deadline.

ICE PROBLEM
Fitts remembered that Hollenbeck also had a bad time when he hit the brick apron in front of the church.
“Jack could not tell whether or not he was on brick because the whole thing was iced over,” Fitts said.
“But he had a feeling he was there; and after he found how the walk broadened out, he knew he
was at the right place.”

Hollenbeck feels that the game of blindman is definitely more challenging than trying to jam 20 people into a telephone
booth or wear out the line by keeping it busy for a hundred hours. “In this, you’re on your own,"
he said. “And you don’t realize how much you don’t observe until you get that blindfold on. That's when the
fun begins.”

After Vespers Open Houses
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bernard
Hopkins
Puckett
Clark
Lobanov
Wheaton
Embry
Logan
Woods
Fredericksen
D. G. Martin
Workman
Goldiere

Neophyte Manpower Scours Countryside
BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

As Greek Week descended with restrained fury for six days, this year’s crop of Davidson neophytes was hired out for
various civic services in the neighboring area. Participating in annual projects, pledges of the college's twelve social fraternities lent manpower
to five hospitals, a church, museum, fresh air camp, library, community center, garden club, private home, and jail.

In addition to special projects during this week of pre-initiation help and harassment, three groups, ATO, Beta, and Sig Ep,
have conducted semester-long projects. The pledges of ATO have been making weekly trips to the Charlotte Rehabilitation Hospital and plan
to continue doing so as brothers. Besides clean-up here, during the week they have wielded the mop and paintbrush at
Mt. Mourne’s old Center Church and the Holy Angel’s nursery at Belmont.

The Betas have been visiting the North Carolina Orthopedic Hospital in Gastonia, entertaining as well as cleaning up. Special emphasis
during Greek Week has been on sanitation and the construction of a hi-fi set for the Negro ward. Pledges unable
to make the trek to Gastonia have been working on Davidson’s own Erwin Lodge.

Sig Eps have been active throughout the semester at the Social Center.

Plans (Continued From Page One)
would require fees for heat, light, etc., which would be about $300-$400 a year. The college would probably provide certain
basic equipment for the house, but would have no control of the organization except to see that no restrictions were
placed on membership.

Band Tours Florida For Five Concerts
The Davidson College Concert Band under the direction of Grier M. Williams will begin its annual tour Feb. 5 which,
this year, will take the collegians to several Florida communities. The first concert is scheduled in Jacksonville, and subsequent programs
will be given at Cape Canaveral, Florida Presbyterian College at St. Petersburg, Lakeland, and Winter Park.

Present plans do not call for any eating facilities for regular board. The center would be able to serve light
snacks at dance weekends. If a group within the organization should ever want to form a fraternity it would have
to withdraw completely from the organization. Maloney was asked what would happen if so large a group withdrew from the
organization that the remaining members could not bear the cost or if the organization became too big for the existing
facilities. Maloney indicated that either case would become a college administrative problem. He implied that the college would have an
obligation to ease the financial burden in the one case and to expand facilities in the other.

The Davidson Faculty Committee on Graduate Scholarships and Fellowships and Dean Cartter of Duke will select the fellowship winner. However,
Dean Frontis W. Johnston said the advantages of this center: an opportunity for dance weekend activities and private parties, the
use of the center as a central headquarters for handling concert pools (especially for freshmen), and the facilitation of the
organization of athletic teams or anything the group wanted to do together. In more regular use it would serve as
a private supplement to services currently provided by the Union.

At Cape Canaveral the Concert Band will perform at a base theater for the staff and personnel of Patrick Air
Force Missile Testing Center. The band has been holding daily practices this week in preparation for the tour. Each concert
will conclude with “All Hail! O Davidson!”

Dr. Williams announced that tour soloists are Joe Robinson, oboe, and James Weber, flute. Robinson will solo in Handel's “Concerto
for Oboe in B-flat” while Weber will perform Chaminade's “Concertino for Flute.” Both soloists are active in campus and area
music activities. Both perform in the college Woodwind Quintet, Woodwind Trio, and Chamber Orchestra. Both are members of the Charlotte
Symphony and have performed in the Transylvania Music Camp and Brevard Music Festival orchestras. Robinson soloed this week with the
Charlotte Symphonette in Mozart’s “Quartet in F for Oboe and Strings.”

Several students raised questions about the amount of formal organization that the group would require. Martin, Goodykoontz, and Maloney all
expressed opinions that a certain amount of formal organization would be necessary for efficient functioning. The house and facilities would
be made available by next fall. Until then the subcommittee and the steering committee will supervise the formation of the
organization. Maloney, speaking personally in response to a question about the roleof the group in Rush Week, stated that he
felt its presence should certainly be made known to freshmen and invitations extended to them as they now receive invitations
from other groups. The Faculty Committee would not award the fellowship to a student unless they believed him qualified for
it. Duke University will decide later if the student's work is deserving of a renewal of the fellowship. Davidson seniors
receiving honorable mention in competition for this fellowship will be able to apply for other Duke University fellowship awards. A
great many graduate fields of study are applicable to the James B. Duke Fellowship. Seniors interested should see Professor G.
L. Abernethy for further information and application forms. Applications must be completed by March 1, and the winner will be
announced by April 1.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING PIZZA

and Alexander Home in Charlotte. During this week, they have been in temporary residence at the Mooresville jail, ostensibly for
the purpose of cleaning. Weather has been a key factor in the postponement of several projects to the end of
the week. One of the more notable of these is the KA’s work with the Mooresville Petal Pushers. Among the
tasks before the gardeners — making railroad tracks look like something else. Other projects ranged from hospital cleanup to renovation
of the Davidson Colored Community Center to muscle power for the re-cataloguing of the Mooresville Public Library. SAE continued its
four-year work at Charlotte’s Mint Museum of Art while the colored AME Zion Church and the home of Mrs. Fisher,
part owner of the ill-fated dime store, felt the helping hand of Davidson frosh. IFC President Bob Waugh also mentioned
the “any and all” project on Saturday for all Greeks who had endured that far: a joint car wash with
Queens College, 2 to 5, followed by a dance featuring the Vibratones. The dollar-a-car charge will go towards bringing a
foreign student to Queens.

Greek Week (Continued From Page One)
John Kuykendahl. Weighing heavily in the final decision will be pledge class placings in the Homecoming decoration contest, the pledge
class project competition, skit night, and the pledge class academic averages. Also considered will be any intangible such as pledge
class spirit and cooperation as noted by the faculty-fraternity liaison officer as he worked with the pledge classes this semester.
In skit competition Wednesday night, the Sigma Phi Epsilon pledge class won first place and the IFC trophy, the Beta
Theta Pi pledges took second and a $10 prize, and the Sigma Chi pledges took third and $5. Judging was
by Drs. Lammers, McGavock, and Polley. Following the presentation of the skits, Waugh said, “I was very pleased with some
of the productions and very disappointed with others. The subject matter of some of the skits is sure to be
a topic of discussion at this week’s IFC meeting, and appropriate action will be taken.”

By the time pledges were done with the polish, paint, and broom games, they had come to the realization that
“Greek” when followed by “week” is actually a memorable combination of “Hell” and “Help.”

Shannon Presents Organ Selections
John Shannon, assistant professor of music at Sweet Briar College, will present the third program in the Davidson College Organ
Recital Series at 4:00 p.m., Sunday, Feb. 4, in the College Church. A native of Charlotte, Shannon took his undergraduate
work at Davidson College. He received both his MA and PhD degrees in Musicology from the University of North Carolina.
Professor Shannon has appeared as lecturer-recitalist for organists’ guilds in Virginia and North Carolina Symphony and numerous chamber music groups.
In his Davidson program Shannon will be heard in works by Couperin and Buxtehude and will play “Sonata in D
Major” by Karl Philip Emmanuel Bach. Also included will be the “Fania in C” from the Lueneburg Tablatures, an extensive
collection of manuscripts of 17th century German keyboard literature. Shannon recently edited a group of these compositions.

Y Plans Camp For Freshmen
The YMCA announced yesterday that it would hold a 1962 Freshman Camp and named junior Danny Carrell as director. The
pre-orientation camp will be held Sept. 4-6 at Camp Stewart in Mecklenburg County. The idea of a Freshman Camp was
initiated by the Y two years ago and the 1960 event was termed a “success” by the sponsors and the
college administration. The scheduling of the opening of school so close to Labor Day last fall made a 1961 camp
an impossibility. Working with Carrell on next fall’s program will be a steering committee composed of Jim Glenn, Frank Mansell,
Fred McGuirt, John Kuykendall, and Dr. George Staples. They will make final recommendations for the camp staff, which will include
a business manager, program chairman, and 14 discussion group leaders. An invitation will be extended to all incoming freshmen with
registration on a limited “first-come” basis. The camp combines an opportunity for freshmen to meet each other and upperclassmen through
an informal program which combines recreation and discussion, ranging on all topics of campus life.

Pi Kap Celebrates 50th Anniversary
Epsilon chapter of Pi Kappa Phi will hold a Golden Anniversary Celebration on Sat., Feb. 3 at 2 p.m. at
its chapter house. This school year marks the 50th year of the Epsilon chapter's existence at Davidson. Alumni, national fraternity
officers, and members of the college family will be present. The program planned includes speeches by a national officer, and
an undergraduate brother. Archon Peter Jorgensen will speak, for the undergraduates, on “Pi Kappa Phi—Past, Present, and Future.” There will
be a coffee hour from 2-4:15 followed by the program after which a buffet supper will be served. The official
program is scheduled to end at 6:30 p.m.

AFTERMATH — New panes are installed to shut out the cold that accompanied the missiles that were hurled through the
glass after last Sunday's snowfall. Working laboriously on the battle-scarred second floor of Watts is a member of the college
maintenance crew.

Traffic Court's Nil Effects Prompt Revision Of Rules
The Office of the Dean of Students announced revisions to the Automobile Regulations this week in an effort to render
the traffic court more effective. The new regulations have been in effect since the beginning of this semester. The amended
regulations provide, among other things, for stiff penalties to be imposed on habitual violators. The penalties include restriction of automobile
use by multiple offenders.

‘HABITUAL VIOLATOR’
Any student whose violations exceed six for the academic year or four for any one semester will be regarded as
an “habitual violator,” Dean Richard C. Burts explained. A student who fails to meet the Traffic Committee could also be
restricted in car privileges. An exception will be made for students who have already accrued more than six violations this
year. Penalties will not be imposed upon them unless they violate a rule one more time. In other words, students
with six or more violations at this time have no more margin in which to work. In the past, in
theory, the committee could restrict the car of a multiple offender. The new additions to the rules only make specific
the number of offenses that can be accumulated before a student is penalized.

BURTS SURPRISED
The new amendments were proposed by members of the Traffic Committee from their experience with offenders. They feel that stricter
regulations are needed to cut down on traffic offenses. Dean Burts, his assistant, John Kuykendall, and Mrs. Joyce Fleagle of
the bursar’s office formulated the new regulations. Ken Kelley, student Liaison Officer to the Court, also had a major role
in formulating the amendments to the regulations. Dean Burts admitted surprise at the fact the Traffic Court idea had not
decreased offenses. He had felt at its instigation that bringing students face-to-face with the traffic problem would make them realize
its importance. However, after a semester’s trial, the traffic offenses seem to be steady—no better, no worse.

THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: NORM SHERER
Norm Sherer joined Ohio Bell two years ago. He hadn’t been with the company long when he had an imaginative
idea for speeding up customer billing. This idea and others won Norm an important promotion to Sales Supervisor for the
Columbus Office. Now, with six engineers who report to him, Norm keeps Columbus businessmen informed on advances in telephone service
and equipment.

NORM SHERER
of the Ohio Bell Telephone Company, and other engineers like him in Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country, help bring
the finest communications service in the world to the homes and businesses of a growing America.
