PAGE FOUR

NEW NEIGHBOR just up the road finds an appropriate location for saving souls right next door to Hattie’s. Sister Ann
recently opened her doors to believers of spiritual healing.

Sister Ann: ‘They Come To Pray, Burn Candles’
BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The entertainment mecca “just up the road” on NC 115 has a new and somewhat ironical addition. On the Davidson
side of Hattie’s stands a small square house with a sign in front proclaiming “Spiritual Healer, Sister Ann.” Behind the
curtained windows is one large room sparsely furnished with a couch, assorted chairs, a double bed, a couple of bureaus,
and a single heater in one corner. In another corner sits a television set, and next to this, a devotional
altar with candles and a picture of the Sacred Heart. There is also a kitchenette.

While two pudgy little children gyrated about the room, Sister Ann turned down the Jan Murray Show, settled on the
worn couch, and began to explain who and what she was. She spoke in a nondescript accent, haltingly and with
the embarrassing sincerity of the unsophisticatedly devout: “Since a little girl I enjoy praying for people. They come to pray
and burn candles.”

To those who shared their problems, Sister Ann would “explain the ways of God.” For this, there was no charge,
and she didn’t care whether the gift left behind was a penny or five dollars.

Sister Ann made it apparent that she was neither a gypsy nor a fortune teller. “They must have a license.
And they charge three, four, five dollars.” She had neither license nor fees. “I do this for a hobby. My
husband lives for me. You can’t make a living from this.”

If not telling fortunes, what was this woman of about thirty in her high-heeled shoes and housedress doing? Because she
enjoyed listening to people's problems, they came to her, sometimes just to pray, sometimes to have Sister Ann pray for
them, sometimes to talk out their problems with one in the faith. All religions and races were welcome: “God left
us all equal.”

But there seemed to be an incongruity between the illuminated sign outside and the attitude inside. Why the gaily colored
Indian’s head? Sister Ann, born in Georgia, had strong traces of Indian blood. Besides, she believed in the Indians, in
the legends of prayer and healing. “It rhymes with spiritual healer, you know what I mean?”

But the sign says spiritual healer; what does that mean? Sister Ann thought that each turned to God in his
own way, even though he would not like to admit it. Then sometimes it is not enough to turn to
God; one needs to share problems with a sympathetic ear. This is Sister Ann’s hobby.

Didn’t she believe in the Catholic Church, which also serves as a kind of “listener” with its practice of confession?
“I love the Church. I go whenever I can. It is fine to have time to go once a week.”

Those who expected from Sister Ann the mystic rites of prognostication or the antics of demonic exorcism would be disappointed.
It would probably take more than this to increase the traffic up Route 115. The only thing for certain was
that it was very hot for February and Hattie’s was almost next door.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open Houses
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brown
Kelton
Sneden
Burts
Labban
Stroud
Currie
Lilly
Tucker
Daggy
Lloyd
White, L.
Gable
Martin, J. G.
Williams H
Griffin
Scott

Vagabonds Sponsor One-Act Play Series
The Vagabonds are sponsoring a series of one-act plays in the Workshop productions on Feb. 21, March 7, 14, and
21. The most promising of these presentations will be entered in the district contest of the Carolina Dramatics Association which
will be held here on March 24.

At last year’s district contest in Charlotte, three of the five plays entered were selected to go to the State
Festival at Chapel Hill. Of these, all received very favorable comment.

Any group or individual interested in working on a play or any part of the production should contact Prof. J.
R. Gross. Groups—fraternities, organizations, or classes—interested in doing a play must select the play, a director and the cast. The
Vagabonds, on the other hand, will finance the ventures. In addition, the drama group will assist with lighting and the
set, with coordinating activities.and with securing publicity. Prof. Gross, when interviewed by THE DAVIDSONIAN, stated that a group’s lack of
an experienced director should not keep it from participating. As long as interest is displayed, Gross said that he is
confident that experienced aid can be furnished to the groups. Asked about groups that have already committed themselves, the English
professor replied that the Independents, the honorary drama fraternity—Alpha Psi, one freshmen class, and Prof. Sneden’s drama class had agreed
to participate. Also, three fraternities have indicated an interest. Gross added: “I certainly think this is an excellent plan if
we can get it operating. A lot of students have indicated that they are interested in drama and this is
a fine opportunity for them.”

Mendel Rivers (Continued From Page One)

Rivers. With a flush of gaiety, Rivers responded in a stentorian voice: “Oh! Yes! Your little sister just got married,
didn’t she.” “No, sir. I hope not,” replied the student. “Oh! That must be somebody else,” responded the unabashed statesman.
As students came away from the discussion, they could feel comforted by Rivers’ words: “I’m an American. I don’t care
anything about Russia. I favor winning friends any way you can.”

Election (Continued From Page One)

Rock ‘n’ Roll Opens Festivities Tonight

Midwinters activities will get underway tonight with a rock ’n roll dance at 9 p.m. featuring the Clovers, Buster Brown,
Johnny Jenkins, and Otis Redding and the Pinetoppers. Also tonight the Artists Series will present the Netherlands Chamber Choir at
8:15 in Chambers auditorium. The Highwaymen are scheduled to perform tomorrow afternoon. IFC president Bob Waugh believes that the rock
‘n roll groups and the Highwaymen should provide a good contrast and he said that the IFC is expecting a
good turnout at both the dance and the concert. Waugh is particularly interested in the general reaction to the rock
‘n roll attractions and would appreciate the opinions of Davidson students.

Mrs. J. B. Moore, director of dormitories, said that this is the most poorly attended dance weekend in years. She
noted that she has no waiting list this week for rooms in Belk and Richardson, and that some rooms are
still empty. She estimated that student attendance was about 20 percent off the usual average, and attributed this lack of
participation in part to the fact that many students do not care for the rock 'n roll type dance weekend.
The current rash of flu cases is another contributing factor.

BY TOM LOFLIN Davidsonian Feature Writer

He is not a big man. And he is a quiet man. But small, quiet men have a way of
walking tall and loudly across the earth. For four men, somewhere in the United States today, Sgt. Jerry K. Crump
is the biggest man they know. For without him on the morning of Sept. 7, 1951, they would not be
alive today. Perhaps everyone here at Davidson knows the quiet man in the ROTC armory with the bulge of tobacco
in his cheek. Perhaps everyone knows that he has won the Congressional Medal of Honor, the highest award for bravery
that can be given.

The events took place on the night of Sept. 6 and the morning of Sept. 7, 1951, near Chorwon, Korea.
Crump was a corporal then, and a squad leader. He does not know why he did what he did when
the enemy attacked the hill on which his platoon had established a listening post. If he does not know, no
one ever will. But he acted instinctively throughout the attack; and when it was over, Crump had one foot in
the grave and a hand clutching the Medal of Honor.

The Chinese sent a battalion in the night to wipe out the platoon. Crump exposed himself repeatedly in going from
foxhole to foxhole to check on his squad. In the process, he found time to deliver effective fire into the
enemy ranks with a BAR. Upon seeing two of the enemy about to capture a machine gun, Crump charged and
killed both with his bayonet. “I could have shot them, I guess,” he said. “But I just charged.” The platoon
was not able to stop the Chinese from overrunning the position. It retreated about two hundred yards up the hill.
But Crump remained in a foxhole with three of his wounded squad members and a medic. “I didn’t think about
retreating,” he said. “The only thing I thought about was patching up those wounded boys. We had been through a
lot together, before.”

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1962

Valor In Korea Brought Crump Medal Of Honor

MEDAL OF HONOR WINNER Jerry K. Crump has been assigned a new tour of duty in South Vietnam. He leaves
Davidson after five years of service here. Crump could have remained quiet after the enemy had passed by the foxhole
without noticing anyone in it. But he fired on them from the rear and caused such confusion that the Americans
were able to make them retreat in panic. A Chinese soldier tossed a grenade in the hole on his retreat.
Crump did not have time to think. He admitted he could probably have jumped from the foxhole and not have
gotten a scratch; however, he threw himself on the grenade—part of his stomach and hip are now gone. He spent
seven months in a hospital. But four other men in the hole with him are alive today, and Crump has
the Medal of Honor because he didn't jump.

Crump in no way exploits his winning of the medal. There have been honors, to be sure. He personally received
his medal from former President Harry S. Truman. In 1958 he, along with seven other Medal of Honor winners, helped
then-President Dwight D. Eisenhower place a flag over the tombs of the Korean and World War II Unknown Soldiers. The
entire staff of the ROTC Dept. is proud to be serving with him and are not ashamed to admit it.

Start The Weekend Right at HATTIE'S Just Up The Road

SALUTE: ROGER DAUB

Roger Daub is an Advertising Assistant with Ohio Bell Telephone Company. Here his creative touch helps shape the commercial messages
his company presents on local radio and television. Roger is also responsible for sales promotion activities that keep local subscribers
informed about helpful new telephone products and services. Roger Daub and the other young men like him in Bell Telephone
Companies throughout the country help bring the finest communications service in the world to the homes and businesses of a
growing America.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

No actions or efforts to encourage bloc voting will be tolerated, nor will vote swapping by any organizations be permitted.
Any kind of financial support by individuals or organizations for candidates will also be considered illegal. An organization can be
fined from $50 to $100 for violation of rules, and all individuals in that organization will lose their voting privilege.
The Elections Board is comprised of a senior from each fraternity and four Independents. Members lending Chairman Clay Atkins assistance
in carrying on the elections are Zeb Vance, in charge of balloting for publications’ editors; Harold Fisher and Dan Calhoun,
in charge of printing ballots; and Lou Zirkle, in charge of the polls.
