WELLFORD, PATRICK DISCUSS HONOR COURT (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1962

‘CATS HOST GW NINE (See Page Three) NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

Faculty Grants Honor Court More Flexibility Of Power
BY WILLIAM WALKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The faculty approved two resolutions pertaining to the new inter-departmental humanities course and to the Honor Court at its regular
meeting April 17. The faculty approved a resolution granting the Honor Court the privilege of recommending that a student who
has been dismissed for an honor offense be allowed to apply for readmission at the end of one year instead
of the usual two. The final decision as to the acceptance of the Honor Court’s recommendation would rest with the
faculty.

Concerning the resolution, Dean Burts said, “This apparently has some history to it. In an Honor Court trial in the
first semester, the Court felt that the violation of the student involved was not so premeditated as others; hence, they
were reluctant to see the same punishment given to him as to other, more devious offenders. They said as much
to the faculty committee who heard the student's appeal. The committee said that it would be happy to receive specific
suggestions, with the resulting resolution being recommended.”

STIPULATIONS ADDED
Burts said that the resolution in no way insures that a student who is allowed to apply for readmission at
the end of a year would be accepted. It is “not merely a one year suspension with assurance of readmission,”
he said, but that the acceptance for admission would be made by the admission committee and executive committee, “since the
Honor Court cannot foresee what the student’s condition will be in a year.” Burts added that two points which were
stressed about the resolution were (1) that the Honor Court must make this recommendation at the time of the verdict,
to avoid pressure being put on the Court by a dismissed student appealing to the Court later, and (2) that
the recommendation must be specific and detailed.

Myers, Stowell Win Drama Prizes
Pete Myers and Don Stowell received awards at the 39th annual State Drama Festival held in Chapel Hill, attended by
the Davidson Vagabonds on April 11-14. The festival, sponsored by the Carolina Dramatic Association, saw Myers receive a distinguished acting
award for his performance in the leading role in “Aria Da Capo,” a one-act play by Edna St. Vincent Millay.
Stowell was awarded the Hubert J. Philpott Award in Theatre Arts for his work on the set for “Picnic on
a Battlefield,” by Arrabal.

Although other plays were performed by outstanding college, high school, and community groups throughout Virginia and the Carolinas, there was
no competition among plays at the festival. The Vagabonds were invited to attend the state festival on the basis of
their performances in the district festival held at Davidson on March 23 and 24. “Aria Da Capo” received a distinguished
rating while “Picnic on a Battlefield” and “Lithuania” by Rupert Brooke received excellent ratings at the district festival.

Among the Vagabonds attending the festival were Myers, Stowell, Neal Bushoven, Woody Danenhower, Gene Adcock, and Buddy Brauch. They were
accompanied by John Sneden, director of dramatics at Davidson and Vice President of the Carolina Dramatic Association. Wednesday night the
Vagabonds performed “Aria Da Capo” and “Krapp’s Last Tape” at Queens College. “Krapp's Last Tape,” a one-act play by Samuel
Beckett, features Smith McKeithen as its sole character.

Dr. Robert Lord will lead a preliminary discussion of a “Senior Fellowship Program” for Davidson College in the Blue Room
of the Union Tuesday, April 24 at 10 p.m. The discussion will be open to the college community. Lord, assistant
professor of music, pointed out the need for such a program in his address. He referred to similar-type plans already
at Dartmouth and Yale. “Such a program would remain distinct from present Honors programs here,” Lord stated. “Student interest in
the project must be demonstrated at this meeting,” announced Lord. “If I do not find such interest, there is no
point in continuing the discussion because it is going to be a hard nut to crack with the faculty and
will require much planning.”

Duke, UNC Officials Meet Here
Four officials from Duke University and University of North Carolina graduate schools visited Davidson Monday afternoon to discuss possible Davidson
cooperation in a “three-year MA” program at those schools. Dean Johnston emphasized after his meeting with the visitors that the
discussions held were exploratory, that no final decisions were reached. He noted that Washington and Lee University, Furman, and Sweetbriar
are also discussing the program with the two graduate schools.

“The basic idea of the program is to attract more people to graduate school and to expedite work on their
MA,” Johnston stated. The three-year MA program includes the last two years of undergraduate study and one year of graduate
school. Undergraduates now at Duke or UNC enrolled in the program can get graduate credit for a few of the
courses they take as undergraduates. “Of course, Duke and the University of North Carolina could not give graduate credit for
undergraduate work here,” Dean Johnston observed.

Although any Davidson relationship to the program is vague at this time, Johnston noted a few possibilities it might include.
One would be for Davidson students to begin work in one of their undergraduate courses on a topic which they
could pursue further as a graduate student. Professors from the graduate schools could come to Davidson to give undergraduates enrolled
in such a program non-credit guidance. Another possibility would be for students to complete their graduate language requirement without any
study in graduate school by passing a standardized test. Both Duke University and the University of North Carolina are presently
working with the Educational Testing Service in New Jersey to formulate such an examination.

Dauntless Dave: Boy To Crusader
BY LEE KIRBY
Dave Jordan wrote his best editorials when he was angry, not loud-angry but quiet. He sat down at the typewriter
and they poured out—clear, concise, expressive—good prose, good copy. For Dave was an editor with principles, and a newspaperman. He
could get upset over a principle, and he could put it in copy. The Honor Court, freedom of the faculty,
possible violation of student elections procedure, the honor system, the race question, the virtual snubbing of a visiting scholar—he could
be concerned about them all; he was always willing to ask, “Can Davidson Be Sincere?” And he could get it
into copy.

“Yes, it makes a difference,” he always said. THE DAVIDSONIAN, not The Davidsonian. Punctuation, spelling, copy, layout, style—it was all
important, and Dave knew it. That made particularly bad the tactic of the administration, Public Relations, faculty, the opposition—“Yes, boy,
you write some interesting stuff... of course your facts are all wrong.” This he resented the most, this picking to
discredit what he wrote. This was hardest because he is a newspaperman at heart, a stickler for fact and for
detail. And his facts weren't wrong—check and see; nor were his principles—wait and see.

He is a newspaperman and a true Davidsonian. And he knows the importance of THE DAVIDSONIAN. He gave it four
years of devoted effort—“THE DAVIDSONIAN always comes first...” helping to make it an All-American publication. On a campus outstanding for
its apathy, he gave full time to fact-finding and determined, principled journalism.

Students To Elect Scripts ‘n Pranks Editor, Cheerleaders
After chapel on Monday, students will elect a new Scripts ‘n Pranks editor and two new cheerleaders to fill vacancies
left by graduating seniors. These will be the last elections to be held this year. Doug Ackerman and Porter Halyburton
have been nominated by the Student Council with the approval of the Publications Board for the editorial position. Tarby Bryant,
Mike Cooney, Butch Covington, Bill Klett, Lee Pitman, and Charlie Shapard, who were nominated from a list of volunteers, will
vie for the cheerleading positions.

VOTING TIME CUT
The voting which usually runs throughout the morning, will be limited to a brief period immediately following chapel. “The Student
Council has decided to initiate this shorter period of voting in an effort to get more people to vote,” stated
Council President Danny Carrell. “We feel that the shorter period of voting as well as this particular placement of the
time will encourage an increase in voting. In the past students either didn't know that elections were in progress or
they kept putting off voting during the morning until it was too late.”

QUALIFICATIONS CITED
Both nominees for Scripts ‘n Pranks are members of Sigma Upsilon national honorary creative writing fraternity. Ackerman is a history
major from Louisville, Ky. He is a member of Sigma Nu fraternity and Eumanean Literary Society and has been a
cartoonist for THE DAVIDSONIAN and Scripts ‘n Pranks for the past two years. Last year he was editor of the
honoraries section of Quips and Cranks. Halyburton is an English major and member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. He is
a member of Philanthropic Literary Society and participates in both track and wrestling. Halyburton has had poetry published in The
National Anthology. The Head Cheerleader for next year will be selected by the cheerleading staff next week.

Local APO Group Becomes National
Nu Chi Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, the world’s largest fraternity, will be officially recognized when the 30 members of
the Davidson group are initiated by the Wake Forest chapter at 5 p.m. on Thursday, April 26 in Phi Hall.
Immediately following the initiation there will be a banquet in the Union ballroom. The service fraternity’s national president, Bill Roth,
will speak following the induction of the new officers. Newly elected officers are, president, Walton McNairy; 1st vice president, Staff
Warren; 2nd vice president, John Rankin; 3rd vice president, Glenn Hanes; recording secretary, Jim Binkley; corresponding secretary, Tom Stafford; treasurer,
Lee Martin; historian, Keith McMullen; sergeant-at-arms, Bruce Swain.

The Nu Chi Chapter was started in October under the guidance of...The leadership of Tom Robinson, Tom Patrick, Walton McNairy,
and John Rankin served the college community. Throughout the year, the APOs have run errands for students in the infirmary,
conducted tours of the campus, and ushered at concerts and other events. Two college-connected projects have been the publishing of
a student directory and work on a map of the location of the professors' homes for placement in the narthex
of the College Church. Recently, the Nu Chi Chapter was awarded a certificate of appreciation by the Mecklenburg Council of
the Boy Scouts of America for their work in connection with the Scout Circus held in Charlotte in March.

Ackerman Fiscal Improvements Promises

I think all of us remember the feeling of disappointment we experienced as freshmen when we read Scripts 'n Pranks
for the first time. As editor, Charlies Cornwell wrote that this magazine does not pretend to be a cheap imitation
of Playboy. The slicker, more intensive edition is available at any newsstand. Nor do we attempt to issue a prototype
of The Saturday Review. Dr. Davidson keeps that magazine in his inner sanctum of higher education. But not only has
the quality of our magazine declined appreciably in recent years, the student body has never taken full advantage of its
possibilities. Scripts 'n Pranks is one of the few student publications in the nation that is not censored in any
way until after it has been issued. Moreover, the college exerts no direct control of any form over it. We
have great freedom to say what we want, in as sharp terms as we wish, on any particular aspect of
the school, the faculty, the administration, or even ourselves. In the past, the contents of the magazine have swung from
the purely literary to the purely satirical. The best issues have achieved a happy medium, combining cartoons, jokes, parody, and
satire with more serious poems and short stories. And yet there have been many problems. The reputation of poor quality
has prevented student interest and support which is necessary to raise the quality. Finances have not allowed the extra touches
that could make the magazine more attractive. Circulation has been confined to the college, creating an incestuous situation in which
outside criticism is not readily felt. Editors have never put in the effort that the editors of the newspaper and
the annual expend. This can be changed. The new magazine advisory board will give the editor increased support and will
assure that the job is being done. Financial health can be restored by selling copies at other schools and by
an earnest campaign for subscriptions and advertising. The editor must work at his job the whole year round. Issues that
are assembled at the last minute cannot be anything but shoddy. The editor must fight to raise the quality of
content and layout. These things I vow to do. There is enough to be said, and enough good talent to
say it to fill more than the three issues. My staff would be open to all who are willing to
work.

Contemporary Art Exhibits Scheduled

A number of art exhibitions featuring both local and outside talent are scheduled to be staged in the Fine Arts
Center, the foyer of Chambers, and the lobby of the College Union throughout the remainder of the school year. Paintings
by Lois Tracy of Asheville will be displayed in the Fine Arts Center on April 18-28. These canvases cover ten
years of growth and range from descriptive landscape to abstract expressionism. The Tracy Exhibition will be followed by a display
of paintings by James Bumgardner and polychrome sculpture by Judy.

Creative works by Davidson students will be featured in the Fine Arts Center, Chambers foyer, and the Union lobby from
April 15.

MAGAZINE CANDIDATES — Scripts 'n Pranks candidates are Porter Ackerman, standing, Halyburton, seated, and Doug. The victor will be decided
by voting after chapel Monday. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

Six Vie For Cheerleader; Two Seek S'nP Editorship

Halyburton Proposes Balance In Scripts 'n Pranks Content

Scripts 'n Pranks has been, by tradition, a humor and literary outlet for the creative talents of the Davidson student.
In recent years, however, its position as a first-rate, quality publication has fallen greatly in comparison with the humor and
literary magazines of other colleges. In many cases, material which has been used in Scripts 'n Pranks has been not
only of inferior quality but also in poor taste. Seeking the editorship of Scripts 'n Pranks to eliminate revenue losses.

Independents. The vote followed intense discussion, participated in for the first time by the individual fraternity presidents, representing their fraternities
as non-voting IFC delegates. Clay Atkins introduced the issue, claiming that the IFC could have earned an extra $100 at
last Saturday's Four Prep concert if all Independents attending had been forced to purchase tickets at the regular price.

GUESTS STILL OK

“In the future, only enough tickets for sale to the Independents will be printed. Fraternity men will still be able
to bring as guests people from outside the college and rushees on the Davidson campus. The first test for the
plan will come at the April 27 dance opening the Spring Frolics activities. There will be a figure at the
dance, which will feature dance music by the Clemson Jungleers and “torch" songs by Dakota Staton.

BARBECUE DEFEATED

Enforcement of the ruling will be more difficult for the Lester Flatt, Earl Scruggs, and the Foggy Mountain Boys concert
Saturday afternoon, April 28. The IFC plans to hold it outside in front of Chambers in order to avoid the
heat of the auditorium inside Chambers. In another decision relating to Spring Frolics, the IFC voted unanimously not to sponsor
the barbecue earlier proposed for after the Saturday concert.

RUSH SCHEDULE

Rush Week will begin Monday, Sept. 10 this fall, two days before classes begin with a split schedule on Wednesday.
This week will end with pledging on Saturday, Sept. 15, according to plans made Monday at the IFC meeting. In
other action, the IFC voted to have the weekend of Oct. 13, when William and Mary will be playing here.
The IFC also voted to keep the number of concerts it will sponsor at three for the next school year.

Davidson Students Win Scholarships

David Jordan, senior English-history major, is one of two Davidson winners of a Danforth Fellowship. This year, 97 fellowships were
awarded to college men and women who show promise as future teachers. Davidson's other previously announced Danforth fellow is Harrison
Wellford. Jordan, an Independent and member of Omicron Delta Kappa, was Editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN. In addition to the Danforth
Fellowship, he has received a James B. Duke fellowship for graduate study at Duke University. Another recipient of a James
B. Duke Fellowship is Perrin Wright, special student in the Davidson mathematics department, who has already accepted a Woodrow Wilson
Fellowship. Paul Leonard was announced as the first Davidson Fellowship Award for study at the University of Chicago Divinity School.
Leonard has served as student pastor of the Bethesda and Fifth Creek Churches and is a candidate for the ministry.

In order for Scripts 'n Pranks to regain its position of respect among college publications and to become a sought-after
medium of real creative talent, it will need an editor who is not only willing and anxious to work hard
at the actual editing and layout, but one who will also stimulate and seek out the best that the Davidson
student can produce. If I am elected editor of Scripts 'n Pranks, I will be this type of editor. I
do not propose to let the magazine become unbalanced in its contents. It will be a blend of humorous and
serious types of both literature and art. Emphasis will be placed on experimentation and new ideas. It will not become
stagnant and repetitious, and each issue will contain a wide variety of entertaining and quality material. Humor will be a
very important part of the magazine, but since this aspect of it has been somewhat controversial of late, I make
it perfectly clear that the humor published will not be of the “bathroom wall” variety. Material will be welcome for
consideration from any group or individual in the student body and I will remain unbiased in my judgment of these
manuscripts. In brief, my every effort will be to make Scripts 'n Pranks not only the best Davidson College student
publication but to make it the best humor and literary magazine among Southern colleges. This, with your cooperation, can be
done.

Army Liberalizes Grad Study Policy

The Department of the Army has rescinded its policy of limiting the delays in call to active duty for ROTC
graduates. The initial policy was outlined in the March 2 issue of the DAVIDSONIAN. Under the provisions of the policy,
a delay in call to active service is now reasonably assured for MS IVs in all fields of graduate study.
Thus an MS IV planning graduate study in any field can probably be granted a delay. Any ROTC graduate who
has previously been denied initial delay has until May 1 to resubmit his application. Persons who have already received a
delay need not reapply under the newest system. Any MS IV student who desires to reapply should report to the
ROTC Orderly Room for more information.

Vespers Features Musical Service

The Music Department and YMCA will sponsor a musical service at vespers Sunday night entitled “A Service of Music for
Holy Week.” Attendance will be optional, Dean Richard C. Burts announced this week. Taking part in the presentation will be
the Male Chorus, the Chapel Choir, the Brass Ensemble, and three student readers, Jim Davis, Alan Jones, and a number
of others.
