PAGE FOUR

College Reveals Lease Of Expensive Computer

BY BUCK LAWRIMORE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Davidson College has approved a lease on an IBM 1620 digital computer which could revolutionize many departments of administration and
could wind endless hours of red tape neatly out of the way into its circuits.

“This computer will be small but powerful enough to give users a meaningful insight into the potentialities of the biggest
computers,” commented President D. Grier Martin. “The computer is to arrive in December on a strictly trial basis. We hope
to decide by May 30 whether or not it should be a permanent part of our educational program,” Martin added.

Dr. Locke White of the Davidson faculty, experienced in the uses and limitations of the mechanical problem-solvers, will teach a
course in programming for interested students and teachers. Since the purpose will thus be largely educational, IBM has reduced prices
by 60 percent to $40,000 should the college decide to purchase it later. Rental will run near $625 a month,
White said.

“If the trial is satisfactory,” Martin remarked, “we may find many labor-saving uses for the device, such as compiling statistics,
keeping track of alumni and of business transactions, recording grades and so on.” The limitations of such a computer can
be expressed as 20,000 decimal digits, White said. What this would mean in practical effectiveness would depend largely on programming
procedures, but careful handling of the machine could make it an extremely worthwhile investment, he added.

Martin emphasized that the main purpose of the computer will be educational: “It is my feeling that computers will inevitably
influence thinking in many fields, and therefore it is highly desirable that Davidson students have a first-hand experience with one.”

“Relative to a human being, the 1620 is a blaze of glory,” White noted. “But it’s downright puny beside the
‘stretch’ computers now developed.” He pointed out that the machine will use binary mathematics, as do all digital computers, thus
greatly multiplying the number of columns available. Since numbers, operating instructions, and letters are all programmed the same way and
since computers never tire of repeated steps, the machine here would be virtually unlimited for practical tasks and computations.

Announcements will be made later on classes for those interested.

Patterson To Talk At U.N. Day Fete

Dr. Ernest F. Patterson, chairman of the economics department, will speak on “The United Nations in Today's World” at a
UN Day celebration at 8 p.m. Tuesday, Oct. 23, in the Public Library auditorium in Charlotte. Patterson will be introduced
by Harry Golden, Charlotte author and editor. A film on Danny Kaye's visit to the Far East for the U.N.
will be shown at the meeting, which is scheduled to coincide with U.N. Week — Oct. 21-27.

Physics Fraternity Plans Programs

Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, will include a new feature in its program schedule this year. Members of the
fraternity will present programs and lectures about recent discoveries and theories, such as the Maser amplifier, in the field of
physics.

A film from the Atomic Energy Commission is on the program for Tuesday, Oct. 23. Members of the physics faculty
will present other programs, and films from Bell Laboratories and the Atomic Energy Commission will be shown. Frank Stafford, vice
president, hopes to obtain speakers from outside organizations to contrast physics with other fields of study.

The society holds its meetings on the first and third Tuesdays of each month in Dana Science Hall at 7
p.m. Open meetings are announced for all who are interested.

CLEVELAND PLAY HOUSE will present Sean O’Casey’s KNOCK AT THE DOOR Tuesday night. Members of the cast, of the Artist
Series presentation are shown above.

O’Casey Play Slated

The Cleveland Playhouse, sponsored by the Artist Series, will present Sean O’Casey’s Knock at the Door at 8:15 p.m., Oct.
23, in Chambers Auditorium. The performance is open to the public and tickets are on sale. There will be no
reserved seats for this play.

Dramatist Paul Shyre adapted this first autobiographical volume from O’Casey’s series. Knock at the Door tells of O’Casey’s early years
in Dublin and precedes Pictures in the Hallway which was performed by this group last season.

Pre-Med Society Initiates Members

Alpha Epsilon Delta, the national honorary pre-med fraternity, inducted 17 juniors and three seniors in initiation ceremonies held at Phi
Hall at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday, Oct. 16. The seniors joining the ranks of AED were John Eichelberger, Jim Gibbs,
and Bob Meldrum. The juniors inducted were W. Buchanan, J. P. O’Neal, Charlie Steigney, Walt Eckman, Bob Dixon, Russ Walls,
J. D. Whitehead, Morris Williams, Buddy Cullum, and Bob Renner. These new members will attend an AED banquet next semester.

In 47 years of operation, the Cleveland Playhouse has produced many works of O’Casey. Founded in 1915 as a community
theatre, the group's present building was erected in 1926 with two theatres: the Drury, seating 552, and the Brooks, seating
160. In 1949 the 560-seat Euclid-77th St. Theatre was built. The Playhouse produces some 20 plays annually, both classical and
modern.

Starring in the Davidson presentation will be Richard Halverson, Margaret Victor, Jo Ann Finnell, Charles Keating, and Richard Oberlin.

FC Budget (Continued From Page One)

semesterly or yearly basis, whether it will go into effect next semester or next year, and whether fraternities should be
charged a 5% fine for late payment of the installments. Marshall indicated that he hopes to incorporate into the plan
a way to solve the problem of not having enough cash on hand before dance weekends to secure entertainment.

Homecoming at the beginning of the year is a special problem, as was proven this year when the IFC found
itself without enough money to pay the deposit for a binding contract with the Four Freshmen. He suggested that one
way to combat this problem would be to levy an extra assessment on all non-graduating fraternity men at the end
of this year so as to give the IFC a sufficient surplus to start business with next year. After that,
any money would be left at the end of every year to carry over to the next.

Frosh Violations (Continued From Page One)

enforcement of the rules? “It would be ridiculous,” he stated emphatically. His primary emphasis on the whole system was: “It’s
kinda ‘Mickey Mouse.’” Nobody, he felt, was violently opposed to the regulations because he thought, “They are all right. A
beanie just becomes part of you after a while.”

One freshman commented on the regulation concerning walking on the grass. He said that it had its good points because
“it'll take six months for us to get used to walking on the grass.” Thus he feels that this regulation
has served its purpose.

“There are people (upperclassmen) who don't give a damn,” comments one freshman. “It just hasn't been enforced that much; it's
getting lax. Only a few people are interested and a couple of gung-ho people. People just go by and say,
‘Freshman, where's your beanie?’”

The freshmen noted the lax attitude of the student body. They seemed hardly concerned that the Freshman Court has the
authority to campus a freshman violator. The Freshman Regulations state: “Regulations shall be in effect until Thanksgiving, unless the Freshmen
win the Field Day...”

Membership in Sigma Pi Sigma is by invitation. In order to be considered for membership a student must be a
Physics major who shows promise of achievement, general scholarship and have had three semesters of physics with an average grade
of 2.6 or four semesters with an average of 2.3, or five semesters with an average of 2.0. Some students
who are not physics majors but are very interested in physics are invited to be chapter associates. Chapter associates, although
not full members, go on the trips and attend most meetings. Usually, only upperclassmen are considered for associate membership.

The usual meetings of the fraternity are informal and open to anyone interested in medicine. The meeting is closed, however,
if the agenda calls for an initiation, a vote on acceptance of new members, or a vote on the admission
of another local college to the national organization.

The program usually consists of one or two films, but the chapter also sponsors visitors to the campus and programs
by representatives of various medical schools. Bowman Gray and the University of Pennsylvania have already been represented this semester.

ARCHITECTURAL ALCHEMIST — Grover C. Meetze stands before his latest campus transformation, Chambers dome to the new humanities classroom. (Staff
Photo by McCutchen)

Meetze Transforms Dome Into Humanities Valhalla

BY MIKE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Suppose one morning last June you walked into your office and were told that in three months you would have
the dome room in Chambers Building converted into a new humanities room; does the job sound impossible? Grover C. Meetze,
director of the physical plant, met this problem head on last June when he was told that the refurnished room
was to be ready for classes by Sept. 13. From the time of the project's conception, Meetze worked against an
almost impossible deadline. Numerous delays and changes in his plans made the deadline seem even more impossible. Problems in construction
seemed to multiply beyond his control.

Cleland To Deliver Vespers Address

Dean James T. Cleland, ThD. DD, will conduct the vespers service in the Davidson College Church, while the Rev. Walser
H. Allen, Jr. will speak at freshman vespers in Hodson Hall at 7:30 p.m. Sunday. A native of Glasgow, Scotland,
Cleland attended Glasgow University and Union Theological Seminary in New York, receiving his ThD from the latter. Since1945, he has
been at Duke University where he now serves as Dean of the Chapel and as James B. Duke Professor of
Preaching in the Divinity School. Scholastically he must be in the upper third of his class.

Next In Artist Series

The Rev. Walser H. Allen, Jr., freshman vespers speaker, is the chaplain at Salem College in Winston-Salem.

Bowers (Continued From Page One)

Interested in physics have been cago. He has formerly held professorships at Harvard, Princeton, Oxford, and Cambridge. He is also
a former chairman of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, from 1956-59. He is thus interested in seeing that students
get to graduate schools and then perhaps into college teaching. Famous for his critical essays, Bowers’ works include definitive essays
of Hawthorne, Thomas Degger, Walt Whitman, and Christopher Marlowe. He is author of Elizabethan Revenge Tragedy, On Editing Shakespeare and
the Elizabethan Dramatists, Textual and Literary Criticism, and others.

RULES —
1) Contest open to all
2) or Commander will
3) WHO WINS — number of points.

So much scaffolding was required at one point that overall work was delayed one week because nothing else could be
placed in the room. Still another valuable week was lost when a trucking firm misplaced the fluorescent lights then in
transit. Minor difficulties threw the schedule off by yet another week. These difficulties, however, seem trivial when one realizes that
Meetze did all the architectural work himself, because there was neither time nor enough money to employ an architect. An
acoustical engineer helped solve the echo problem, but all the other plans were designed principally by Meetze. A major problem
in design was to make the room fit in naturally with the building rather than have it seem makeshift. Meetze
solved this by arranging the color scheme to blend in with the colors of the stonework around the sides of
the walls; this arrangement makes the room one of the most attractive on the entire campus. Consider some of the
many features of the new room: a panel ceiling (to perfect acoustics) with lighting arrangements built into it, loudspeakers providing
complete and equal coverage of the entire room, and an attractive lighting scheme. Add to this the practical problems of
electrical wiring, air-conditioning, and heating. Finally, mix everything together in such a manner that a movie can be shown while
the instructor adds his comments and the students take notes and refer to maps on the sides of a room
with just enough light for all these activities. All this work was planned and designed by Meetze who made the
dome room practically a one-man architectural exhibition. Although he himself gives much of the credit for meeting the deadline to
the Barger Construction Company—without whose fine help, he stated, the room could not have been completed in time—the major credit
for this outstanding task must go to Meetze. When Davidson College freshmen entered this room on September 13, he was
still trying to dry the shellac on the temporary lectern with rubbing alcohol. Yet when he again thought over the
summer’s work, he said: “It’s not very often that you can take problems and make them into real advantages as
was done in the building of the humanities room.”

Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brown, E. E.
Kelton
Richey
Burts
Lilly
Scott
Daggy
Lloyd
Stroud
Gable
MacCormac
Tilley
Griffin
Martin, D. G., Sr.
Tucker
Johnston, F. W.
Martin, J. G.
White, L.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

Marlboro Contest

WIN! BEAUTIFUL 19 INCH MOTOROLA TELEVISION CONSOLE

Each empty package of Marlboro, Alpine or Parliament will have value of 5 points — Each empty package submitted of
Phillip Morris Regular have value of 10 points. In order to qualify, each entrant must have 15,000 points.

1) Any group, fraternity or individual who qualifies and has the highest number of points.

CONTEST ENDS ON NOVEMBER 9, 1962 AT 1:30
REPORT TO THE STUDENT STORE
Charlotte, N. C.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1962

Opposing Incumbents Speak At Assemblies

Two incumbent congressmen vying for a single seat will visit Davidson Monday and Tuesday. Raper week campaigned for Kitchin representing
the old Tenth District, will appear Monday. His opponent, Democrat Paul Kitchin, who represents the Eighth District, will speak the
following day. They will both deliver a speech in assembly on their respective days and a coffee hour is tentatively
set for after the talks. Both of the candidates are incumbents running for the seat in the House of Representatives
from the new Eighth District. The unusual situation is the result of redistricting caused by a population decline and the
resultant loss of a seat. Armed Services Committee while Jonas serves on the Committee on Appropriations. Both Jonas and Kitchin
have been classified as conservatives. Because of this the campaign seems to have centered on personalities and party affiliation. The
contest has attracted national figures. Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson in his visit to the Charlotte area this past week
campaigned for Kitchin stating, “We need more Democrats in Congress.” Jonas received aid several weeks ago from former President Dwight
D. Eisenhower who was stumping for GOP candidates in the South.

Chorus Will Sing In ‘Student Prince’

Impersonating (?) “a group of beer-drinking students”, Davidson’s Male Chorus will soon appear in the Charlotte Opera Association’s production of
The Student Prince. According to Donald Plott, chorus director, his disciples will be in several scenes portraying student life in
Heidelberg. “If the action were real,” he quipped, “we'd have to have pretty strong men to take and withstand all
the toasts in the script.” The Student Prince is the first production of this sort in three years in which
the male chorus has taken part. “There are not too many operas which call for all-male choruses,” Plott pointed out.
In previous years the group appeared in Carmen and Rigoletto. The intense preparation required for such participation also places a
limit on the number of productions in which the chorus can take part. The Nov. 5 show at Ovens Auditorium
will also have Bill Workman, a senior, acting in the role of Engel, an older character. The music director praised
the association’s overall program, and said he was pleased that Davidson could help out in one of three productions this
year. Plott stressed that there are some unusually good productions, particularly for a city of Charlotte’s size.

Plaque Given To Phi Delt Chapter

Wednesday night the N. C. Gamma chapter of Phi Delta Theta was presented with a plaque in recognition of the
fraternity's having collected over three hundred and fifty dollars for the Muscular Dystrophy Fund by stopping traffic on the main
street of Davidson last spring. The plaque was presented by Mr. Bob Pace, regional director for the Easter Seal Campaign.
The Phi Delts plan to make this an annual drive.

First Semester Exam Schedule

FRI. Jan. 18 P.M. Fifth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
SAT. A.M. First hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Jan. 19 P.M. Second hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
MON. A.M. Second hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
Jan. 21 P.M. Third hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
TUES. A.M. Third hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Jan. 22 P.M. Fourth hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
WED. A.M. Fourth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Jan. 23 P.M. ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41
THURS. A.M. First hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
Jan. 24 P.M. Sixth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
FRI. Jan. 25 P.M.
SAT. A.M. First hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
Jan. 26 P.M. Sixth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

Young Republicans, Democrats Organize

BY CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Assignments Editor

Attempts to start organizations of both Young Republicans and Young Democrats are now in progress on campus. Both groups would
be affiliated with their respective parties. Amid a flurry of partisan activity, John Cameron is beginning a Young Republicans Club.
“Twenty-five people have indicated an interest so far,” he stated. “That’s about what I was hoping for—something to work with.
“We definitely plan to associate with the Republican Party,” Cameron said. “The club will not be limited to the conservative
viewpoint. We plan to bring speakers to the meetings and to discuss party issues.” “The right wing is running rampant
on campus,” comments Union Director C. Shaw Smith, who is attempting to stem the flood by starting a chapter of
Young Democrats. “If you want to stop it, you rise up and rear your head. If you don’t, crawl back
in your cubbyhole.” Smith is not planning to form a militant anti-conservative organization, however. “I am not so interested in
squelching them (the right wing) as in bringing their situation into total focus. No meeting, no talking; that’s what's wrong.”
Although “only a few" have expressed an interest in the chapter, Smith is planning to arouse more interest. He plans
to bring Charlie Smith, executive director of the Mecklenburg Democratic Party, to the campus soon to discuss party issues and
candidates. Equating his interests in young Democrats and in students going into government work, Smith stated that he thought that
interesting students in the practical realities of the two-party system would heighten interest in government work. He noted that the
Conservative Club now on campus merely discusses individual issues.

Student Council (Continued From Page One)

The council is trying to set up a master calendar for the clubs and groups to avoid any conflict in
meetings, special events, and other activities. Council member Larry Leafer was asked to contact groups which have failed to supply
the necessary information required by council. President Carrell reported that the Student Activities Committee was still in the process of
contacting all of the student organizations on campus.
