LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Spring In The Colleges

With the coming of spring, hysteria creeps across the campus. Tension mounts steadily, and even when it does not erupt in some overt form, it still disturbs the last two months of the college year. Now is the time when the steadily growing psychiatric staffs come into their own. The young people who brood in their rooms, who forget to come down to the dining hall, and who burst out in fits of irrationality are not worrying about who will win the great game or who will come to the dance or be tapped for the fraternity ... (they) are immersed in their books and laboratories, and their concern is for the grade that an incomprehensible marking system will grind out for them.

The phenomenon is relatively recent . . . indeed, there may be some refuge which is entirely unaffected, where college remains a place of learning, not a racetrack. The American college functions with a time-encrusted mechanism, much of it immensely valuable because of the experience, wisdom, and tradition built into it. But some of its devices were designed for purposes long since forgotten. We do not question their presence; the grating noise they make seems a necessary part of the operation. Who can imagine that this is the sound of minds being crushed in a process that frustrates the whole educational enterprise? Those great big beautiful A’s so avidly sought, those little, miserly C’s so often found, were meant for another time and another student body. They were the tools of the teacher in the day when the college was more a disciplinary than an educational institution. (Prof. Oscar Handlin: ARE THE COLLEGES KILLING EDUCATION?: May, 1962, THE ATLANTIC)

Oscar Handlin, professor of history in Harvard University and Pulitzer Prize winner, has just come out with a timely, provocative and relevant essay in the May edition of THE ATLANTIC. Professor Handlin is concerned with the weighty influence and use of grades in the American college, with their negative influence on broader educational values, and their retention in the academic community despite changes which should have caused them to lose influence when education became institutionalized, really educational rather than merely disciplinary.

Some readers would conclude that Handlin is contesting windmills; they will be amused. But students will find consolation in that at least one academically respectable elder sees a real explanation for nervous breakdowns around exam time, wasted ability, ulcers achieved at nineteen, and rising suicide attempts among students, with occasional “successes.” They will be gratified that somebody sees through a stifling and pretentious system which often fails in its mysterious efforts to reward virtue and punish evil, and to stockpile students’ “learning” in the college records office.

We think Handlin has hit upon a tangible problem; he is not shadow-boxing. His perceptive analysis could even extend to Davidson without altering one word of it. Yet we are not so Utopian as to hope that an entrenched, if unjustified, grading system will be seriously threatened anytime soon ... or to expect professors to discontinue their use or misuse of it. After all, it “works,” for better or worse, and is just a reflection of the world we live in. As a force in student motivation and self-consciousness, the system first applies pressure in the best high schools, where the best grades and scores assure admission to the best colleges. It continues to operate through the more intensive college years, says Handlin, and as the student applies for a job or graduate school. It is encouraged by parents’ blindly asserted ambitions, by the promise of fellowship grants, and even by the stupid willingness of students to fit in even if it grates on their sensibilities and prevents the pursuance of more important educational values than the competitive ones. Even when the student must submerge half of himself under a false front it is easier and more apparently profitable to prove the general rule than disprove it.

But there have been mavericks who disproved “the system,” who’ve shown a B-plus average in college isn’t a necessary pre-requisite to important contributions to the “intellectual and moral” fiber of the nation or the world. Serious students who don’t adjust to the system of grades should re-read the autobiographical passages of John Dewey and Henry Adams, rather than falling into bitter fits of self-persecution, of accepting as prophetic truth the shallow percentile ratings of a relentlessly cruel (“but extremely useful”) tradition. “Successful” students who fit easily a system of grades and stockpiled evidences of their “learning” are to be commended, even sometimes to the extent of a Phi Beta Kappa key. Their formal education is no less hard-earned than that of the rebel who finds most real learning outside the classroom, in the library or in conversation with professors and fellow students.

The one gaping hole in Handlin’s argument is his assumption that most students have an urgent intellectual curiosity, an urge to find out, to sit up late at night with Plato or Augustine or Spinoza or Pascal. This assumption may ring true at Harvard, but we wonder how universal it is even there. Handlin says Joe College is dead, his interests antique. We wonder. Nevertheless, we encourage students to take time out before the approaching exam frenzy to find out what it’s all about. Read Handlin’s entire essay.

Spring Themes

Spring is here and along with it come the rash of college newspaper editorials mildly suggesting restraint and a diversion of the more vigorous energies into serious creative endeavor. Since we are only journalistic, it seems in place to reflect out loud on this phenomenon.

Of course, on the outside, this season brings the annual upturn in business and increased employment on the farms which national magazines always hail as a new era of economic prosperity. More seed is sown than ever before and the government works hard using tax money to keep prices up.

The stimulation of ultraviolet rays brings the local gentlemen creatures out in flocks seeking polaroid-colored tans to wear in contrast with madras and white. The softball and frisbee become key weapons in movements designed to make the road unsafe for anything smaller than a tractor-trailer truck.

The Fine Arts Festival has served pretty well, for those attending, to underline the creative aspect of this season. From Guy Owens to the Solo and Small Ensemble Contest (punctuated by the IFC Concert) this Saturday, the campus-that-cares has gotten a real taste of new talent. We hope that more students will show their support by attending some of these affairs, especially those representing student achievement.

Spring is a time of tradition. The college limbers up its reapers to keep the photosynthetic process to a minimum and trim off that excess bit of knowledge. One tradition we hope the college will see fit to continue is the Mayday commemoration it so spontaneously generated among the students last year. Even though other exercises are planned for that day, we think the administration should again really dig in to make May 1st at an all-male institution successful. In fact, as a boon to rising interest and millennial hope, we suggest that two large holes be dug — right where the barberry trees now stand.

David Dillard Ed Willer Charles Dibble Joe McCutchen Tom Anderson Doug Ackerman Dan Adams Joe Howell

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER Associate Editors Bill Hagen Mac Plaxico Assistant Editor Bill Ruth Managing Editors David Stitt Jeff Wampler Sports Editor Bill Pridgen Assignments Editor Bob Bethel Feature Editor Greg Govan News Editor Photographers Cartoonists Advertising Manager Charlie Smith Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane Assistant Bus. Manager Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Liberal Education: What’s It All About?

BY DR. EARL MacCORMAC Professor of Bible and Philosophy

Liberal education has as its main purpose that of freeing the spirit of human enquiry. As such, it has nothing to do with any specific ideological position. “Liberal” does not mean “liberal” in the political sense but “liberal” in the sense of openness to examine many ideas, intellectual curiosity to seek further knowledge and, when understanding is achieved, a strong passion to carry out the implications of this learning.

One of the major results of a liberal education (which includes the arts, humanities, and the sciences) is the development of a certain attitude (openness, curiosity, action). Liberally trained students become self-educating men who are able to continue their own education long after they leave college. To create this attitude, however, does not mean that facts and the vast body of previously accumulated knowledge are to be ignored. On the contrary, it is only in the serious encounter of the student with “content” that he is enabled to do creative thinking.

TENSION EXISTS

Within liberal education there seems to be a tension between the “factual” and the “interpretative.” Overemphasizing the factual leads to an unorganized mass of data, while overemphasizing the interpretative leads to shallow opinions. Courses are needed which encourage students to arrive at their own interpretations based on both a thorough understanding of the “content” and a critical examination of the “interpretations” of others.

Interlude

By Adams

THE CONSERVATIVE MIND

Edgar Doubts Purpose, Political Views Of NSA

BY AL EDGAR

Last year Davidson's student council joined the United States National Student Association (NSA). Although most students here have never heard of NSA, it is an unfortunately influential organization in the outside world. I feel that a responsible look at some of NSA’s carryings-on should provide ample reason for Davidson to immediately discontinue its membership therein.

On the surface NSA is a helpful little outfit that offers student travel aids, scholarship information, and help to student governments. Apparently these were some of the reasons why Davidson joined. The idea seems to have been that we would give NSA a trial and see what we could get out of it. The trial period should now end. We have almost nothing to show for our $45 per year dues except some travel posters on the third floor of Chambers.

PRESSURE GROUP

NSA is more than a campus sewing circle, however. It is a pressure group with some very definite political ideas which tend to lean decidedly to the left. This is in spite of a constitutional provision that: No body acting in behalf of NSA shall participate in ... partisan political activities; they shall not take partin activity which does not affect students in their role as students. Among other non-partisan activities of immediate student concern, NSA deplores the following: (1) Franco's government in Spain (violates “academic freedom”); (2) nuclear testing (no apparent connection); and (3) French colonialism in Algeria (of all things). NSA endorses all forms of non-violent protest (which necessarily includes freedom rides).

MEMBERSHIP CLAIMS
Technically, NSA is only a federation of student governments. However, when mentioning its membership, NSA seems to claim every one of the students whose student government happens to belong. This means that NSA counts every Davidson student as a supporter of its policies. It has no right to do this. We joined by a vote of the student council. Most of us did not even know that this action had been taken. This would be fine if the student council were elected on some of the issues connected with NSA, but it is not. At present, NSA claims to represent some 400 colleges with total enrollments of 1,250,000. This is somewhat less than a third of the schools in the country, yet NSA begins the preamble to its constitution with “We the students of the United States of America...” Thus NSA cleverly becomes the voice not only of Davidson students, but of American students as well. This is false. Unless we agree with what this voice is saying, we should decrease its strength by about 900.

UNDEMOCRATIC CONTROL
Our membership in NSA might conceivably be tolerated if the NSA organizational structure permitted democratic control and a minority voice. But it does not. 68 of 80 policy declarations issued last year by NSA were put out by a powerful little group known as the National Executive Committee. On the 12 issues voted upon by NSA’s more democratically oriented National Student Congress, there were some substantial minority votes. Yet NSA’s “Codification of Policy” contains no expression whatsoever of minority opinion. NSA, which is particularly sensitive to this criticism, recently put out this glorious little statement: “NSA, like any other democratic (boldfacing mine) organization, falls under immediate suspicion of the fanatical right and extremely conservative groups.” Did somebody say that the horrible, fanatical, fascist John Birch Society exaggerates? The student council should either (1) vote to drop our membership in NSA, or (2) submit the question to a student body referendum. Either step should weaken an organization which does not deserve our support.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Alumnus Reminisces About Bell,
Dear Editor,
As a former staffer on THE DAVIDSONIAN you can imagine how pleasing it was to receive your April 5 issue. While the edition spanned the era from its founding to the present in a fairly comprehensive manner, it is too much to expect that a great classic institution like Davidson College—with its revered traditions and its giant personalities of the past—could be given adequate coverage in a limited treatment. Since observance of the newspaper's golden anniversary was the main objective of the special sheet, it does seem to me that no history of the publication would be complete without a profile or tribute on Davidson's greatest literary product. He was Vereen Bell who, as I recall, wrote a column alongside mine in 1931. After graduation, he wrote stories for Presbyterian Sunday School classes. Then on to Boys Life. And Saturday Evening Post. Then came the novel about the Okefenokee swamps, Swamp Water, made into a movie (Director John Ford told me personally that Vereen was a great talent). As you no doubt know, he died a war hero as a naval officer in World War II, just as his superb dog stories prompted critics to compare him to Albert Payson Terhune. I believe Davidson has an award given in his name at intervals. Then there was Witt Hancock, Moscow AP reporter or bureau chief who also died a WWII hero. And a leading writer named Don Wharton was another who has become a national literary figure. I believe research would show that both men were on THE DAVIDSONIAN staff, but my memory is hazy on this. One more thing... When sports editor Bill Godwin quoted my good friend, Heath Whittle, on Captain “Pritchard” I believe he made a mistake. As I recall it—and please check this—it was Captain “Pritchett.” But whichever it was—he’s deceased now—Captain P. was probably the greatest inspiration for students during his day. Just ask Pete, or even Dean Rusk. They both idolized him. Good luck at the world’s finest school, my beloved alma mater.
Norman W. Raies, '31
Portland, Oregon

standing of the “facts” and the interpretations which have been given to these materials by other scholars. The specific curricular methods used to achieve this attitude should necessarily be multifarious. Lectures, recitations, seminars, and tutorials all contribute to the process of liberal education. Each of these methods possesses certain intrinsic educational values and all of them should be used in their proper context. One of the greatest limitations upon the liberal arts college is that of the pragmatic spirit—“I’m going to take only those courses which are relevant to my major, or those which will help me to get into graduate school, or those which will help my grade average.” Often, unless students are able to see the short-term value of subjects, they are unwilling to take them, even if they have a genuine interest in that particular field.

RELEVANCE CITED
What students (and faculty) often fail to recognize is that much of the liberal arts curriculum is extremely relevant to life—but only in the long run. The ideas that often have the greatest effects upon lives are those which are found in the abstract. How otherwise is it possible to explain the scholar’s passion to understand history or the scientist's to understand physical reality or the musician’s devotion to music? If the liberal arts college yields to these practical demands, it is often unable to raise the ultimate questions about value and life which are central to its purpose. A primary function of the liberal arts college should be to raise ultimate issues in a religious context. This last phrase does not mean that the Christian college must impose its views upon students; but it does mean that it has as one of its responsibilities that of bringing students face to face with questions about the meaning of life. It does have the full right, however, as a Christian institution to present the Christian interpretation of life as part of its curriculum and to provide means for the expression of its Christian students in worship and in social action.

TRUTH CHANGES
Finally, the greatest danger for the liberal arts college is for it to think that it has “arrived.” No institution of higher learning can afford to be static. Even if we believe in the existence of an objective truth, our apprehension of this truth is constantly changing, which implies the necessity of having changing methods of dealing with it. Institutions which are rigidly structured often reflect an attitude toward truth which is static—“We have found the truth and we are not going to let it change.” This, of course, usually results in the denial of truth and a suppression of research and the joy of discovery. The search for truth is truly a never-ending task and, in so far as the liberal arts college seeks to free the spirit of human inquiry, it must also change—not change for its own sake, but change only in the direction in which truth leads us.

Tot Teacher Views Frolics. In New Coed’s Translation
BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

The following is an excerpt from The Face of Social America by Stanley Klaxton, recently translated for female college students by Miss Francis, Ding Dong Extension of the University of Chicago. Said translator Francis, “The language may be a trifle too childish, simple, and immature, but I always try to suit style to subject, and reader.”

* * *

See the school. The school is called Davidson. It has students. They are all men. Long ago they called such schools monasteries. See the students. They are happy. Some girls are going to come to stay with them for a while. This is called a dance weekend. It is a misnomer. See the student run. He is making a run. He knows his ABC’s. One of them is just past Howard Johnson’s. See the drinking rule. See the students kowtow to it. This is called maintaining good relations. Some people call it hypocrisy. See the pledge. Nice Dean Burts gives it out. Fraternity men sign it. They say they saw no drinking. See the dark sunglasses. See Dean Burts. He is a nice man. His office is in Room 101 Chambers. Or Ministry of Love. The name will change in 1984. See the Administration. They like Davidson. They say it is a safe place to send your son. They send their daughters far away. See the dance. It is formal. It is well lit. It is well chaperoned. It is non-drinking. It is a front. See the girl. She is a brilliant conversationalist. She is intelligent. She has a wonderful personality. She shafted her date. See the girl. She is not pretty. She cannot talk. She cannot do anything. Except. She is popular. See Scripts ‘n’ Pranks. It comes out on dance weekends. Usually. Sometimes it tries to be funny. Big deal. See the date. She is a blind date. She is a loser. She has an oral personality. That’s from psychology. See the co-ed. She came to hear the concert. She came to go to the formal dance. She came to have a good time. She came under false pretense. The judge said so. See the woods. They are dark and scary. Mr. Linker will not go into the woods. Just couples. See the motel. It is more scary than the woods. Even the Administration is afraid of the motel. It once gave them a black eye. See the couple. They are being cool. They are so cool she cannot stand it. They are so cool he cannot stand it. Pretty soon nobody is standing.

* * *

It was at this point that Miss Francis went back to her studies at Ding Dong Extension, embittered by the growing wave of protest over her translation. As columnists all over the country commented on her “entertainment value,” “very poor,” it was found that the Davidson College IFC was contracting her for a concert weekend.

PEANUTS
I WORRY ABOUT WHO'S GOING TO SEE HIM FIRST... A BIG-LEAGUE SCOUT OR THE HUMANE SOCIETY!