**The Davidsonian**

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A Joint Behest

The poll sponsored jointly by the Student Council and THE DAVIDSONIAN has shed new light on the integration issue at
Davidson. It is now possible for the trustees to know exactly how not only the faculty but also the students
feel about the problem. It is regrettable that all of the members of the student body were not interested enough
to express their opinion. We feel, however, that this vote is an accurate reflection of student sentiment. The turn-out was
about the same as that for most major campus elections if not more. As is always the case, we must
simply assume that the ratio of opinion among the apathetic is the same as the ratio of the votes of
the interested.

It is indicative that student interest in the poll was so low. A once-heated topic now seems to have cooled
off. Perhaps the successive integration of school after school and college after college in the South has made the integration
of Davidson seem inevitable and has made argument over the issue seem purely theoretical. Both the integrationist and segregationist forces
seem to be waiting, watching to see what the trustees’ action will be.

In spite of the drawbacks, however, the results of this poll were undeniable. The omission of the “undecided” category from
the ballots forced an even more clear-cut delineation between the ayes and nays. There were not five possibilities of choice;
there were not even three. Perhaps this limitation of choice reflects the feeling of inevitability on the issue, as well.
Students were asked to either give the go-ahead signal to integration at Davidson or to vote against it. The majority
favored integration. If the die-hards retained their opinion, we are not surprised. Much of their fire, however, is gone and
much of their wind has been taken by the simple “yes” of the majority.

Two students expressed concern in the poll that if integration comes to Davidson, that it should be carefully considered and
planned. Certainly no one on either side of the issue can wish for anything but the most careful and understanding
execution of the integration of the college. If the trustees take positive action, we are sure that it will be
only with such care and understanding, however.

The trustees now have a clear behest from both the faculty and student body for Christian leadership in the South.
We look to them hopefully for their assent.

L. K.

Book Committee Finally Scores

After a long series of delays and setbacks, the Book-of-the-Year committee was finally able to come up with a 1962
selection this week. It has been hampered by many problems. Two authors were almost in the bag, then had to
cancel out. But Chairman Lowry Reid has gone ahead and picked a book which ought to appeal to a large
part of the student body.

Dean John C. Bennett of Union Seminary in New York has written several books of note in the field of
Christianity and politics. He is an outstanding liberal scholar who perhaps deserves a wider reputation outside the religious community. His
books have never been best-sellers, but have received acclaim among those who notice works in this field.

The YMCA will bring Dr. Bennett here to help offset the strong conservative trend of speakers that has pervaded campus
this year. It has changed the proposed format for its series on Communism, too. Instead of continuing discussion on this
segment of the Liberal-Conservative struggle, it will open discussion on such controversies as medical care for the aged. By extending
its scope, the Y has made the program more informative.

Reid and his committee have a lot left to get ready for Bennett’s appearance. But we're glad to see them
opening the other side of a hot controversy which in affecting the whole nation has not passed Davidson by.

Another Winning Team

Last week, Coach Lefty Driesell, riding a record-breaking win streak, admonished the student body to continue supporting the basketball team,
and also those other things, like debating. He couldn’t have been more right. This year has seen the debate team
set some modern records of its own, too, after springing back from a long period of non-existence.

A good example of the continued dedication of those men and the sacrifices they have made to build up a
highly respectable program is the upcoming tournament at Florida State University next weekend. Not only are the four top members
of the team giving up the dance weekend, they spent almost all of the midterm break revising their arguments and
getting back in shape after the usual Christmas season lull in debate activity.

Most of the credit deserves to go to an energetic group of freshmen and sophomores and debate coaches Dr. Joe
Drake and Mrs. Grace Lilly who pulled the forensic program out of limbo last year. Their efforts were rewarded by
a commendable record then. This fall, the nucleus of only seven or eight has expanded to 40 or 50 and
several full teams to rotate on a more extensive competitive schedule.

Their achievements are rapidly filling the trophy case and restoring area respect for the Davidson debate program. We note that
they have four more meets remaining on their schedule this spring. We hope the student body will heed Lefty’s request.

And just think about next season’s prospects. That bumper crop of freshmen and sophomores will all be back and the
present top two teams will return intact. Best of luck to both these record-breaking teams—basketball and debating—in keeping up the
fine record. They both merit all our support.

Let The Good Times Roll

Huey “Piano” Smith is languishing in a southern jail without bond. He can’t make it to Midwinters. Shirley and Lee
wanted to come—that is they wanted to come for a while. Then it was the Olympics. They were looking forward
to a complete weekend of rock 'n roll. But they too had a change of mind; it was something about
not enough appearances.

Undaunted, the IFC turned to other groups, just as loud and just as similar, to please the Davidson tastes. The
Crests would do fine—for a while. Now it seems they won't be with us either. The Pinetoppers are coming, among
others. The next cancellation we expect to hear about this ill-fated weekend is word from the girls that they can’t
make it. Or for Dr. Woods to go one step further and declare a flu epidemic.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Jordan

BUSINESS MANAGER
Gene Adcock

Associate Editors
Don Ruby
Jim McCutchen

Managing Editors
Bill Hagen
Jim Howell

Sports Editor
Stan Adams

Advertising Manager
Ed Willer

Circulation Manager
Clay Atkins

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Assignments Editor
Jeff Wampler

Feature Editor
Bill Ruth

News Editor
Sam Fort

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

‘That Old Gang Of Mine’

Rusk’s Visit Presents A Two Way Challenge

BY R. W. RIEKE
Visiting Associate Professor of History

The appearance of Secretary of State Dean Rusk on the Davidson campus on Feb. 21 for the Reynolds Lecture Series
raises a question of more than fleeting interest. Why does this public official, who perhaps next to the President holds
the most important single position of responsibility in the free world, choose to spend several hours in the environment of
a small college town, here to deliver an address and to converse with groups of students, faculty, members of the
administration, and interested citizens?

We at Davidson flatter ourselves without justification if we believe that Rusk is conferring upon us some special favor in
being our guest. We stoop to the point of ridicule if we assume that “he owes it to us” as
an alumnus. We should perhaps be astounded to learn that in the Secretary’s mind it is very likely we who
are conferring the favor and that the responsibility of owing is ours.

It does make a difference to a statesman where he delivers himself of formal pronouncements. Is it not significant that
two of the decisive utterances in the Western world following World War II were made before college audiences? I refer
to Winston Churchill's “iron curtain” speech and Secretary George C. Marshall’s commencement address. The academic audience offers the highest kind
of challenge to a democratic official, if for no other reason than the fact that it is not a special
interest group which can be humored with platitudes or captivated with generalities. Small talk is out of keeping with the
atmosphere of sober, inquiring, reflecting minds. It may well be that Rusk has chosen us, not we him, precisely because
we, as serious listeners, offer him a more suitable opportunity to express his real thoughts than some other group of
hearers.

The Secretary’s formal remarks at Davidson, however, may be of lesser importance to him than the informal contact with Davidsonians.
From the very first week in office Rusk has made it clear that he eschews the sensational statement, the dazzling
action. “Foreign policy," he has said, “is not the spectacular episode of today's headline. . . . The future of
the world will turn not so much upon a succession of crises as upon our effectiveness in dealing with the
mass and complexity of our day to day work—the work which anticipates difficulties before they become unmanageable.” His well-known inclination
to favor the ordinary channels of diplomacy rather than the road of personal diplomacy at the summit is in keeping
with this statement.

It follows from this that Rusk may find it as profitable to learn first hand the hopes and concerns of
his fellow citizens as to evaluate the pressing request of some foreign statesman. How else can the chosen leaders of
a democratic community keep in touch with the pulse beat of those they serve other than through the sort of
personal contact afforded by the Davidson visit?

“There can be little doubt that our democracy works best when its leaders are candid,” said Secretary Rusk at his
first news conference. He might have added: “and when those who are led are equally candid.” Our distinguished guest owes
us nothing as an alumnus. We at Davidson, as responsible citizens, owe him everything.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Simpson Scores ‘First’ With ‘Last Film’ Scheduled

SimpsonDear Editor:

With all due respect to Mr. Hagen, we do not intend to show the films he listed in the Religious
Film Festival. Such films as “King of Kings” and “Ben Hur” are but inferior remakes of older films. We will
show only one film in conjunction with the R.F.F. I am pleased to report that the Film Committee is bargaining
for exclusive world rights to Dino de Laurentiis’ “The Bible.” This 25 million-dollar epic will run for 10 hours. Originally
scheduled to be shown in three three-hour and twenty-minute segments, we offer you the complete film beginning at 1:00 p.m.
on Good Friday. There will be an intermission between the Old and New Testaments. Communion will be served during intermission.
The film will be over at 12:00 p.m. There will be no admission charge, but collection plates will be passed.
Pews and an altar will be installed in the Morrison Room in anticipation of the resulting religious fervor. The Glory
of God will be brought to you in Cinemascope and Technicolor. We hope to have stereophonic sound installed by that
time so that you may hear the voice of God in all its true-fidelity magnificence. We hope that the students
will remain after the film for the all-night discussion of the film and its social implications. “The Bible” will be
the last film ever shown at Davidson and throughout the world as well. It will run forever. The College Church
and all classes will move their quarters to the Morrison Room to study the film for the next 2000 years.

David Simpson
Chairman, Film Committee

Dear Editor:

In connection with our recent trip to the meeting of the World Council of Churches in New Delhi, India, Mrs.
Cunningham and I had the opportunity of stopping over several days in Bangkok, Thailand. While there we were in the
home of the Reverend Horace Ryburn who is a Davidson alumnus and a classmate of President D. Grier Martin. He
was particularly anxious for us to see a recent contribution of the Davidson College students to the splendid hospital which
is one phase of the work of the Presbyterian Church in that area. As I recall it, it was several
years ago that Lt. Colonel Adams, who had been P.M.S. & T. at Davidson and felt a high regard for
Davidson students, was on a mission to Bangkok and was in touch with Dr. Marshall Welles and the work of
his Christian hospital. Colonel Adams wrote the student body suggesting that they make their Christmas gift of that year to
the work of this hospital. His suggestion was adopted and a generous gift was sent to Dr. Welles. He was
then in the process of building and equipping a large new unit of the hospital. This equipment was ordered from
London. It is considered the most scientific equipment of this type in the entire country. The hospital is not the
largest but it is said to be the best equipped of any hospital in Thailand. I congratulate the Davidson students
once again for this magnificent expression of generosity and concern.

J. R. Cunningham

Dear Editor:

In connection with our recent trip to the meeting of the World Council of Churches in New Delhi, India, Mrs.
Cunningham and I had the opportunity of stopping over several days in Bangkok, Thailand. While there we were in the
home of the Reverend Horace Ryburn who is a Davidson alumnus and a classmate of President D. Grier Martin. He
was particularly anxious for us to see a recent contribution of the Davidson College students to the splendid hospital which
is one phase of the work of the Presbyterian Church in that area. As I recall it, it was several
years ago that Lt. Colonel Adams, who had been P.M.S. & T. at Davidson and felt a high regard for
Davidson students, was on a mission to Bangkok and was in touch with Dr. Marshall Welles and the work of
his Christian hospital. Colonel Adams wrote the student body suggesting that they make their Christmas gift of that year to
the work of this hospital. His suggestion was adopted and a generous gift was sent to Dr. Welles. He was
then in the process of building and equipping a large new unit of the hospital. This equipment was ordered from
London. It is considered the most scientific equipment of this type in the entire country. The hospital is not the
largest but it is said to be the best equipped of any hospital in Thailand. I congratulate the Davidson students
once again for this magnificent expression of generosity and concern.

J. R. Cunningham

Civil Disobeyer Respects Idea Of Law And Order
BY FRANK STAFFORD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Rev. David Andrews, recently arrested for kneeling at the White House fence, spoke at the Methodist Student Fellowship last Friday
night on the topic of passive resistance and civil disobedience. Andrews, head of the Methodist Student Center in Boone, N.C.,
explained that civil disobedience was permissible only when there was a definite and clear moral or ethical principle at stake,
and when all legal means had failed. “I believe in the fullest use of the law,” said Andrews.

PREPARED TO GO TO JAIL

He further explained that civil disobedience was “valid only if engaged in by people with respect for law and order,”
and he stressed that merely being conscientious about a moral issue was not enough. “There are conscientious anarchists,” he asserted,
“but I am not one.” When asked if he was not undermining the law by engaging in civil disobedience, he
explained that he was not trying to evade the law or the consequences of breaking it. He said that he
was prepared to go to jail for breaking a minor ordinance (One of the charges for kneeling at the White
House fence was obstructing the sidewalk.) in order to demonstrate concern for a higher moral issue. Why did he kneel
at the White House? It was an effort to free a certain Martin Sobell from prison. Sobell was sentenced in
connection with the Rosenberg spy trials; Andrews believes he did not have a fair trial.

ANDREWS NOT COMMUNIST

Whether Sobell is innocent or guilty was not argued Friday night, and it will not be the issue here. Andrews
is a minister, not a lawyer, and he admitted that he has to depend on what “eminent lawyers and other
informed people” say. The fact that Sobell has been accused of being a Communist has caused quite a political stir.
Consequently, people favoring Sobell’s release have often been accused of being soft on Communism. This political stir does not disturb
Andrews at all. He said that he sought presidential clemency for Sobell “in spite of my disagreement with his politics”
and “because he is a human being, an American citizen, and an object of God's love.” As for Andrews’ political
views, he stated flatly, “... I am not, never have been, and never will be, a Communist.”

UNIMPOSING MAN

David Andrews, an unimposing man who looks more like he should be the corner grocer's son rather than a preacher,
is neither eloquent nor profound, and he does not try to be either. He speaks in simple terms designed to
overwhelm nobody and makes his points without a lot of high-powered philosophical justification. He is admittedly naive in politics and
economics. “I have never gotten around to studying Marx or Lenin... or Adam Smith, for that matter,” he said. Andrews’
main virtues seem to be humility and sincerity. When asked whether his prime motive for his “kneel-in” may not have
been to ease his own conscience rather than to right a wrong, he readily admitted the possibility that he may
not know his own motives. “There are mixed motives,” he said, “such as heroism, desire for public attention, and so
on. You just hope that your motive is basically sincere.”

ATTITUDE COMMENDABLE

Some may disagree with the particular stand Andrews is taking in the Sobell case, and some may disagree with the
way in which he shows his concern. However, he will have to be admired for the fact that he is
taking a stand against what he believes to be a miscarriage of justice, not with any flag-waving or with any
wild-eyed zeal, but with the demonstration of a great deal of humility and a manifestation of genuine Christian love. Such
an attitude is commendable.

‘Progress’ Program Presents Real Hope
BY TONY DIAZ

Just before Adlai Stevenson left on his journey to South America he went to a big dinner in New York.
Bob Hope was there and said: “My friend, Adlai Stevenson, is about to leave for South America to visit our
friends and he will be back the same day.” What is the truth behind the Yankeephobia feelings attributed to the
Latin Americans? Will the long-range “Alliance for Progress” policy be the right course to take?

SOME DOUBT

Some American commentators seem to doubt it. They warn that the whole American program of foreign aid rests on assumptions
of very questionable validity, including the assumptions that such aid will make friends for the U.S., and that it will
stimulate a healthy economic development, bring about a general rise in living standards and promote the growth of stable, democratic
societies. Taking a broad look at Latin America, we note that almost every country is under democratic control and that
the stability of these regimes is under severe strain in some of them. Communism and other extreme left-wing forces have
generally gained in strength and aggressiveness in the past year. As I see it, for the U.S., the problem is
essentially political. This is certainly true of Cuba, which is the nub of the problem:

CUBA ENHANCES

The alignment of Cuba with the Communist movement has greatly added to the appeal of Communism, since it can now
take on the disguise of an indigenous Latin American revolutionary movement. There is widespread popular sympathy for the proclaimed goals
of the Cuban Revolution including land reform, popular education, social equality, the removal of foreign business influence, and the defiance
of the Yankee colossus.

NO RED MASTER

Castro has managed to convince many Latin Americans that for Cuba the formation of ties with Moscow and Peking has
meant, not a change of masters or the absorption of Cuba by the Sino-Soviet bloc, but on the contrary the
achievement of genuine independence. To drive this point home, his government recently took part not only in the two conferences
of Punta del Este, but also in the conference of neutralist powers at Belgrade. What course of action should the
U.S. take? Not unilateral military action against the Castro regime. Such action would now be a blunder of the highest
magnitude. It is not justified either by the present threat from Cuba or by the present prospects of the Castro
regime, which, I am confident, will either shed its Communistic affiliations or disappear. There is no reason to assume that
we must either blast Castro out now or else tamely submit to the permanent presence of a Communist power on
our doorstep.

INTEREST IN “PROGRESS”

A lot of ink has been spilled over this question since the fiasco of last April, to confuse the issue.
But to me the choice before the U.S. is simple: is the United States going to continue to conduct its
relations with Latin America on the basis of the voluntary association laboriously built up during the past three generations, or
is it going to exchange this for a hemispheric regime of force? In Latin America there is a unanimous and
intense interest in the “Alliance for Progress” Program. Without exceptions, governments emphasized the political importance of making the Punta del
Este meeting a success. If the program crystallizes there is no question in my mind that Latin American governments are
ready to carry through sustained development efforts, including the needed structural reforms.
