2 Che Aavidsonian THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1962 (All Unsigned Editorials
by the Editor) Conspiracy ‘Of The Right? God knows, there is risk in refusing to act till the facts are
all in: but is there not greater risk in abandoning the conditions of all rational inquiry? Risk for risk, for
myself I’d rather take my chance that some traitors will escape detection than spread abroad a spirit of general suspicion
and distrust, which accepts rumor and gossip in place of undismayed and unintimidated inquiry. I believe that that community is
already in a process of dissolution where each man begins to eye his neighbor as a possible enemy, where non-conformity
with the accepted creed, political as well as religious, is a mark of disaffection; where denunciation, without specification or backing,
takes the place of evidence; where orthodoxy chokes freedom of dissent. Seven members of the John Birch Society were on
campus this week to see that Davidson College knows of internal Communist conspiracy in the United States. The Society’s literature
is on sale at the College Union. A former major general, turned Chicken Little, last week extended the web of
conspiracy to include Secretary of State Dean Rusk. The alarmist, sky-is-falling psychology of the entire “Far Right” has been brought
close to home for the College. We feel compelled to respond. Whatever the Birchers had to say was said at
Davidson in a manner foreign to academia or rational discussion of issues. Opinions masqueraded as irrefutable dogma—accusations were thrown out
as if they were to be accepted at face value without question. Schools, clergy, press and all but a few
elected and appointed government officials were seen as part of the “conspiracy.” We found the Birchers assuming a special factual
knowledge of conspiracy and conspirators—“if you only knew what I know, you'd be an alarmist too.” Challenged on their “facts”
they could do nothing more than repeat opinions and theories based on guilt by association. They often failed to understand
questions directed at their dogmatic assertions. Their only “political” unity is found in a program of “education and exposure” and
in a desire to return to a pre-FDR economy—as they say it, “getting the socialists out of the government.” The
Birchers and their comrades on the Right seem to be expressing an emotional resentment and rebellion toward the new twentieth-century
role of the United States as world power and free world leader—and against resulting economic and political responsibilities. They often
seem to be demanding an impossible return to our protected, isolated nineteenth-century position. The danger of the Far Right lies
not so much in ends as in means. When an individual is accused of Communist conspiracy before all the facts
are in, that individual becomes the victim of the social irresponsibility of his accusers. And his accusers become very like
those they presumably oppose. The problem is posed for socially responsible “Conservatives” and “Liberals” alike: how far should such crusading
be allowed to go before it becomes libelous? When does freedom of expression become anarchistic license? Seeds of doubt in
some basic values of our culture are being sown in the minds and emotions of the uncritical masses—we could reap
a whirlwind of unforeseen and terrible consequences. where faith in the eventual supremacy of reason has become so timid that
we dare not enter our convictions in the open lists, to win or lose. Such fears as these are a
solvent which can eat out the cement that binds the stones together; they may in the end subject us to
a despotism as evil as any we dread; and they can be allayed only in so far as we refuse
to proceed on suspicion, and trust one another until we have tangible ground for misgiving. The mutual confidence on which
all else depends can be maintained only by an open mind and a brave reliance upon free discussion. —Judge Learned
Hand (from A PLEA FOR THE OPEN MIND AND FREE DISCUSSION, 1952) Credit The Student Council took a long-needed step
last Wednesday when it created the Student Activities Committee. That certain organizations have not, at best, been active in fulfilling
their potential roles in the campus community life has been apparent for some time. The main trouble is, of course,
that too many membership lists are filled with “club-collectors” who contribute nothing except their names. And the organization, in turn,
contributes its name to the achievement list for the individual in Quips and Cranks and on graduate school applications. This
inactive majority has had a tendency to stifle organizations having the best intentions with an atmosphere of apathy. Leadership has
too often become a matter of entailing prestige but little real service. If the Activities Committee lives up to its
stated purposes it can provide significant stimulation where needed and, hopefully, bring clubs to the point where they exist for
more than their own sake. Organizations, such as the literary societies, should be encouraged to present certain programs open to
and benefiting the entire student body. We would like to see this committee become one of the more active on
campus. It has the potential of being a most important area of student-faculty cooperation. Aims of each segment can be
presented and fused to provide certain agreed-upon goals. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER Associate Editors Bill Hagen Mac Plaxico Assistant Editor Managing
Editors Bill Ruth David Stitt Jeff Wampler Sports Editor Assignments Editor Bob Bethel Feature Editor Bill Pridgen Greg Govan The
Only Living Man I Ever Worshipped’ By Howell Former Student Relates Outlook Of Ghanaians BY KNOX ABERNETHY I have long
hesitated to write anything to THE DAVIDSONIAN since I entered the University of Ghana in September. My chief reason is
that I shall undoubtedly be misunderstood and, more important, ignored by the people I hope to address. But after perusing
a few stray issues which happened to stray across the Atlantic, I feel compelled to run the risk of opening
my mouth. Some 750 Ghanaians have seen fit to climb down out of the trees to inhabit a university, which,
in physical and academic prowess rivals even Davidson. Ninety percent of the students are on full government scholarship, which they
repay by teaching in the public schools or by working in the civil service for three to five years after
graduation. (The Ghana government would rather use its university-trained men in this way, than put them in the army.) STUDENTS
CONSERVATIVE On the whole, the students are rather conservative, when compared to the general trend of political events and thought
in West Africa. But, from what I have been able to gather, they are quite typical in their opinions of
the educated people of West Africa. What about race problems? To begin with, they are black men and black men
don’t like to be treated like animals. Under British colonial rule they got enough of a taste of race prejudice
to assure themselves that it’s not a “good thing,” and they have remained miraculously free of racialism. There have been
enough American students around to inform the Ghanaian students fairly well. COLD WAR The people on the street, however, aren't
so well-informed, and are not averse to stopping Americans and demanding an explanation. They are intensely interested in the struggle
of their “brothers”—the Afro-Americans, as they call them. And they are usually placated by the assurance that “progress is being
made.” (Whether you really think it’s progress or not, this is the only patriotic explanation.) The big issue for all
Americans discussing world affairs is, of course, the Cold War. Whenever any of the Americans here slips into the usual
diatribe against communism which we take for granted at home, the students start to chuckle. The Ghanaian image of the
“typical American” is that of a very wealthy loud-mouth who calls all his critics communists. They expect our anti-communist propaganda—and
they get plenty of it from the many organs the American government is employing to disseminate its views. But while
they are rather cynical about this American obsession, the majority of them are quite openly suspicious of the Russians. News
Editor Charles Dibble Photographer Joe McCutchen Cartoonists Doug Ackerman Don Adams Joe Howell Advertising Manager Charlie Smith Circulation Manager Malcolm
Lane Assistant Bus. Manager Rick Finch Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under
Act of March 3, 1879.and critical of their policies. The government is hard-pressed to find students willing to accept the
generous scholarships offered by Eastern nations. The illiterates simply don’t trust white men; 150 years of British rule taught them
better than that. (Note: Russians are white.) Those who are “in the know” realize many of the dangers of communism,
and their feelings are intensified by the bungling Russian aid programs.

NUCLEAR TESTS

When the Russians resumed nuclear testing, the students were furious, but they were more furious a couple of years ago
when the French were testing bombs in the Sahara desert—much closer to home than Siberia. At that time, the Western
powers were very quiet about the sins of nuclear tests. So, when the West vehemently attacked Russian tests, and at
the same time began conducting its own, their indignation was understandably decreased, and their cynicism enhanced.

Africans view the present world conflict rather differently from ourselves. They regard it as the struggle of freedom against oppression,
just as we do. The difference is that they don’t think that the communists are the only oppressors. They lived
under British tyranny for 150 years (call it what you like, it was still tyranny) in nearby areas which seem
far more important to Africans than to ourselves. The Portuguese are carrying out a policy of slave labor and brutality
which rivals Red China in intensity, if not in size. In South Africa, perhaps a dreamland for segregationists, but the
epitome of all that is evil for Africans, the racialist despotism of Verwoerd and Welensky is implemented by “anti-communist” legislation.
The upholders of apartheid equate all concepts of racial equality and/or integration with communism. (An attitude not unknown in the
South.) In the Congo, Tshombe, whom Ghanaians regard as an archfiend, duped the West with his anti-communist pretenses.

AFRICANS QUESTION

In other words, all around them, Africans see oppression and brutality, and it’s largely carried out in the name of
combating communism. This leads them to ask, “What right do you have to preach about freedom and justice when you
and your allies are oppressing our brothers in America, in Algeria, in Angola, and in South Africa?”

In conclusion, let me assure you that Africans are not anti-American or communist dupes. Rather, they are passionately opposed to
tyranny in any form, and are jealously guarding their own newly-found freedom. If someone is oppressing them or their neighbors,
they will object. And even if that someone is the West, they will still object. Perhaps some of us or
our wizened politicians could profit by this example.

Festival Features Short Experimental Pictures

BY DAVID SIMPSON
Film Committee Chairman

On Tues. and Wed., April 18 and 19, the College community will have a chance to see at least six
short films from Cinema 16, the country’s oldest and largest film society. The “far-out films,” as Arthur Knight of the
Saturday Review calls them, will be perhaps the strangest lot of films offered at Davidson in a long while. There
seems to be no middle ground of opinion on the films. Stanley Kauffmann of the New Republic calls them “mostly
trash.” Jonas Mekas, film critic for the Village Voice and editor of Film Culture reports: “In American experimental-poetic films, Stan
Brakhage or Kenneth Anger could serve us as an example of the kind of modern film poet who creates not
according to the technical rules of filmmaking (a la Spottiswoode) but rather according to the rules of his own subconscious—that
depth where real creation begins. And only with the cinema-sense established at that depth can we begin to hope for
the art of cinema to emerge.”

What is an experimental film? Arthur Knight in his book The Liveliest Art, describes experimental film thus: “Despite a multiplicity
of styles and intentions, experimental work falls into two main categories—the abstract film, concerned with color, form, texture, movement and
spatial relationships, and the subjective film, which is the story form of the avant-garde—stories told through the dream symbols and
Freudian trappings first introduced on the screen by the surrealists of the twenties.”

The films are as “far-out” from conventional cinema as Gelber is from conventional...

THE CONSERVATIVE MIND

Progressive Income Tax Inclines Toward Marxism

BY CLAY ATKINS
Conservative Club President

Ever since the 1913 income tax amendment was enacted, the government has not found a painless method of collecting the
tax. We realize that taxes must remain high at the present time to ensure our country’s defense. But, at the
same time, we should realize that prudence is needed to render the least damage to the economy in leveling this
tax. The progressive system of taxing is a real threat to industry and to the aggressive drive that has brought
America to her present greatness.

The present tax system reduces the availability of venture capital which no new dynamic industry can afford to be without.
The effect of this reduction has been to downgrade personal incentive, individual effort, and accomplishments. It is an incredible paradox
that as a people we place extraordinary emphasis on achievement and admiration for distinction. But when rewards of achievement are
paid in terms of dollars rather than cheers, most people cry, “no.” We admire success, but penalize the successful; we
admire talent, but penalize the talented; we admire leadership, but penalize the leaders. Cheers, “yes,” but financial rewards, “no.”

Too little thought is given to the moral implication of taxing one man's earnings more than another’s. Is this equality?
We are nearer the system of proportional tax than we are led to believe. Studies show that our tax bill
is about 25 percent of the value of the country’s productive effort and that overall every citizen is paying nearly
that percentage of his own income. Yet, we are led to believe that the greater part is collected from a
handful of the wealthy. Actually, the excess of the 25 percent is only three percent, which is about four percent
of the total revenue. If the group earning $50,000 and up were stripped of their total income, the results would
scarcely net enough to operate the government for a single day!

In recent years, Russia has realized the importance of personal rewards. It is notable that at a time when the
Soviets are embracing our principle of incentive and show signs of their benefit, we ourselves seem intent upon abandoning this
principle. A free society with incentives and rewards geared to personal accomplishment will produce a nation second to none. We
must return to the principles which have brought us to our present high stature.

It has become a denial of the principle of high rewards for high accomplishment and a bowing to the Marxian
theory, “from each according to his ability; to each according to his need.” From the beginning, we have held fast
to a set of moral principles implicit in the tradition of individual freedom. These principles have served us well. We
know that Marx listed the steeply graduated income tax system as one of the 10 principal weapons of communism. The
evil of so gross a discrimination cannot fail to have its effect upon our moral fiber. The effect on the
present and on the future cannot fail to be profound.

New United States? European Disagrees

BY CONSTANTINE STATHATOS
Richardson Scholar

The prospective realization of the European Common Market’s economic goals is unquestionably reasonable. The “experts” have gone too far, however.
They are dreaming not only of an economic boom, but also of a general unification of the state-members following the
United States pattern. In fact, they expect in the very near future the citizens of the nation-members to say no
more that they are Belgians or Italians, but to call themselves Europeans in the same sense that New Yorkers or
Texans say that they are Americans. In other words, Europe is expected to become another United States.

DIFFERENCES EXIST

There is something visionary and chimerical in these dreams, however. Nationalism exists in the European states to the extent of
extremeness. An Englishman or a German, for instance, should never be expected to put aside his nationalistic beliefs and call
himself a European. On the other hand, the idea that we can follow the American pattern sounds utopian. Let us
not build castles in the air. It took a very long time for the United States to substitute “is” for
“are.” And, as far as I know, there are still regional differences. There is North; there is South.

The unity of this country is not a mere product of good will. The “Melting Pot” operated under peculiar circumstances.
The newcomers had to adapt themselves to a new environment. The need for adaptation brought them close together. This togetherness,
they felt, was a matter of survival for themselves as well as their offspring. There was no other way to
face the numerous adversities they came across. As a result, the national differences were abandoned.

DIVERSITY CITED

In present-day Europe, things are quite different; Europe is not being established! It is very old and there are well-organized
states with long traditions and lots of differences which are insurmountable. The way of living, the psychosynthesis, varies from country
to country. It goes without arguing that this diversity gets less sharp under the impact of the rising economy. It
will never disappear, though. The gaps are not easy to pave.

Some people were interviewed in a TV program last week. One young German lady frankly remarked that Americans take life
less seriously. Clearly, the expectation of a European United States is practically chimerical.

AND NOW HE'S OFF AGAIN
