) ie ie MARTIN DISCUSSES . ‘CATS LOSE PIEDMONT CENTER | “s T IN TOURNEY acta ulna The News and
Editorial Voice of Davidson College a we sitinia DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1962 - NUMBER 24325EN~
VOL. L ROTC Move Mauls Hopes Of Deferment BY DAVID PEARSALL Davidsonian Staff Writer The increasing threat of war and
the need to enlarge the U.S. Armed Forces has prompted the Army to adopt a new deferment policy. Consequently, many
seniors who had planned for graduate study next fall will find themselves in uniform instead. In the past, any Davidson
ROTC graduate could be deferred from active duty if he were entering graduate school the following fall. With the new
policy, only students of dentistry, law, medicine, and theology will be able to enter graduate school next fall. EXCEPTIONS POSSIBLE
There are however two possible exceptions to this ruling. If a student is offered a “once in a lifetime opportunity”
through a graduate scholarship that must be used the following year, he will be granted a deferment. Also, should the
quotas for ROTC students in active service become filled, a priority system would be used to enable deferment for some
men so that they could begin graduate study. The general fields of study in order of their priority would be:
(1) associated fields of medicine and psychology; (2) chemistry, physics, and math; (3) languages - teaching; (4) history, journalism, and
public relations. DETAILS COME LATER Within each of the four priority groups, deferments would be granted according to the date
on which the application was received. All fields of study within one group would receive equal priority. More detailed information
on the new policy can be found on the bulletin board in the MS II room of the ROTC Department.
More complete information is supposed to be released by the Army sometime next month. However, this basic change of deferment
policy should continue indefinitely. Alpha Phi Omega Helps Townsman Members of Alpha Phi Omega, the newly established national service fraternity
at Davidson, are presently alternating five days a week in driving a cancer patient in Davidson to Presbyterian Hospital in
Charlotte for radio therapy. The fraternity has carried out several projects for the college as well as for the community
this year. It printed the college directory which was given to all students. Members run errands daily for infirmary patients,
getting their mail and books. The fraternity has provided a map in the college church with professors' addresses, making Sunday
night visiting less complicated. Its members have also ushered for college concerts. The Davidson chapter's officers this year are President
Tom Martin, Vice President Tom Patrick, Secretary Walton McNairy, and Treasurer John Rankin. Alpha Phi Omega is the largest men’s
fraternity of any kind in the United States, having over 300 chapters. The chapter at Davidson is now in the
process of being founded. Its work started last fall and it will apply for a charter within the next month.
Davidson’s chapter has about 25 members and can accept a few more; membership is limited to about 30 students. A
requirement is that a member must have worked in Scouting although the fraternity is in no way affiliated with the
Boy Scouts. Students interested in joining should see Bill Pridgen or Tom Robinson. Carrell, Kelley, And Killian, ELECTION TIME is
here. Walt Eckman stops to glance at the lists of nominees for President, Vice-President, and Secretary-Treasurer which were posted in
the Union Lobby Tuesday afternoon. (Staff Photo by McCutchen) Josh White, well-known folk singer and guitarist, will present a concert
on Saturday, March 10. The concert, which will be held in Chambers auditorium at 8 p.m., is being sponsored by
the IFC. Today, 30 years after he cut one of the first phonograph records in America, Josh White is generally
acclaimed as one of the greatest folk singers of our time. He is noted for the liquid quality of his
voice and his style of phrasing. A native of Greenville, S. C., White was the son of a poor Negro
preacher. Because of his father’s ill health, he was forced at the age of seven to secure his first job,
leading blind Negro singers from one street corner to another. When he was 11, White played second guitar with Blind
Joe Taggart, in Chicago. Three years later, when he returned to his family’s home, a record scout offered him a
contract. RE Book-of-the-Year Sellout Forces Delay In Program Because of the sellout of the 1962 Book-of-the-Year, Dr. John C. Bennett's
Christianity and Communism Today, the date for the campus presentation of the publication has been moved from March 26-27 to
April 23-24. Since its first printing in October of 1961, the book has enjoyed unexpected success. Consequently, its publishers have
reported to Dr. George Staples that the stock is now completely exhausted. The second printing is scheduled for March 15,
and this date does not allow time for an adequate supply by the previously scheduled March 26-27 visit of Dr.
Bennett. Program chairman Lowry Reid, in commenting on the change in date said that this added period of nearly a
month will give extra time for extensive publicity and preparation. Chairman Reid is enthusiastic over the success of the book
and hopes this points to the possibility of a strong student interest during Dr. Bennett's visit. Plans are now being
made for a panel discussion on the issues raised by the book. Both sides will be represented, and Dr. Bennett
will be there to offer his views. Male Chorus Sings With Rise Stevens The Male Chorus will sing with soprano
Rise Stevens next Monday evening at 8:15 in Ovens Auditorium in Charlotte. The chorus will sing Randall Thompson's “Testament of
Freedom”, written for orchestra and men’s voices. Miss Stevens, noted for her portrayal of Carmen, will read the words of
the Testament and will sing other works. “Testament of Freedom”, which consists of excerpts from three writings of Thomas Jefferson,
is being sung to commemorate 200 years of Mecklenburg independence. The last time the Male Chorus sang with the Charlotte
Symphony Orchestra was eight years ago. Bates, Heffner Survive Runoff Juniors Danny Carrell, Ken Kelley and John Killian will go
before the students in assembly and at an evening forum Monday with their platforms for student body president. Balloting will
resume Tuesday for that office. In elections today, John Spratt and Fred McGuirt were elected first and second vice-presidents of
the student body respectively, edging out Jerry Trammell. In the competition for secretary-treasurer, Tom Heffner and Dick Bates survived today's
runoff against David Grant and David Walker. Today's voting marked the third day of elections on campus. Nominations had been
held after chapel Tuesday with runoffs beginning Wednesday morning. A total of 494 students voted today, 74 below the three-day
high of 568 Wednesday. Spratt was the top vote-getter today with 293, followed by McGuirt with 238 and Trammell with
111. In the closer race for secretary-treasurer, Heffner and Bates survived.him $100 to go to New York for a recording
session. Because his mother objected to his singing, he first recorded under a pseudonym, Pine Wood Tom. President Franklin D.
Roosevelt heard White's album, “Southern Exposure,” and invited him to present a White House concert. White dedicated the ballad, “The
Man Who Couldn’t Walk Around,” to the President. In 1950, he accompanied Mrs. Roosevelt on a concert tour of Europe.
He was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Folk Lore degree from Fisk University in Tennessee for his scholarly research into
the origin and development of many folk songs.

Science Foundation Sponsors Lecturer

Dr. Leallyn B. Clapp, professor of Chemistry at Brown University, will be the guest of the Chemistry Department for a
three-day visit next week. Dr. Clapp will come to Davidson as part of the National Science Foundation’s program to strengthen
and stimulate chemistry programs in American colleges. He will speak Monday, March 5, at noon in Room 20 of the
chemistry building and again at 7:30 in Hodson Hall of the Fine Arts Building. On Tuesday, he will speak at
9:20 a.m. and again at noon in room 205, and at 2:15 he will hold a discussion with the college's
chemistry staff. At 6:30 p.m. Tuesday, a dinner will be held for Dr. Clapp and the college's chemistry majors followed
by a talk by Dr. Clapp on “Careers in Chemistry.” Clapp will leave Davidson Wednesday.

Dr. Clapp holds the B.Ed. degree from Eastern Illinois University and his Ph.D. from the University of Illinois. He served
as chairman of the Division of Chemical Education of the American Chemical Society in 1959-60. Clapp’s visit to Davidson is
one of nearly 600 which have been carried out under the National Science Foundation program aimed to strengthen and stimulate
the chemical programs in colleges, and provide the college staff and chemistry major students an opportunity to talk with a
creative chemist.

BY RICH DOUD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

with 138 votes, followed by Bates with 126, Grant with 107, and Walker with 106. Spratt is presently serving as
secretary-treasurer of the student body. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity and reporter for THE DAVIDSONIAN. McGuirt,
a Sigma Chi, plays on the varsity football team and is president of the Sophomore Class. Heffner, a Phi Gam,
is a member of the freshman track and cross country teams. Bates is serving as president of the Freshman Council.

Council Discusses Magazine

The Student Council Wednesday night discussed the problem of Script ‘n Pranks. President George Trask said the council is working
toward improving the quality of the campus humor magazine and is co-

Vie For Council Presidency

Spratt, McGuirt Are Veeps; Carrell, Kelley, and Killian will each give a five-minute speech Monday morning. More extensive discussion of
student government issues will be held in the Union ballroom Monday night at 7:30. The field of nine presidential aspirants
was narrowed to three in the first day's voting. According to Elections Board rules, when only three candidates remain, voting
will cease until they are able to present their platforms.

Carrell attends Davidson on C. R. Harding Scholarship and is a member of Sigma Chi. A varsity letterman in basketball,
he is on the Student Council and is the head of the YMCA Freshman Camp for next year. He has
served on the Freshman Council. Kelley, a member of Phi Delta Theta, has been secretary-treasurer and first vice-president of the
student body. He was also on Freshman Council and is on the track and swimming teams. Killian has served this
year as second vice-president of the student body. He was president of Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Thirty-three sophomores of the 68 who were nominated signed up for the first runoff Wednesday. Nine survived the first balloting
and the field was further narrowed to four Thursday. Charlie Rowe withdrew from the race before (Continued On Page Four)

Adcock Receives Reynolds’ Award

Gene Adcock, a senior from Henderson, N.C., has been named as a recipient of a Reynolds Scholarship for study at
the Bowman Gray School of Medicine in Winston-Salem. The eight Reynolds Scholarships, which are awarded annually by the Z. Smith
Reynolds Foundation, range in size from $2,400 to $4,800 per year. They provide for the cost of four years of
medical curriculum at Bowman Gray, and then for two years of postgraduate training at any medical school or hospital in
the country. Adcock will be told the exact amount of his scholarship at an April 6 banquet in Winston-Salem, when
the formal presentation of the scholarships will be made. The scholars are selected by the medical school committee on admissions
on the basis of character, scholarship, potential as a physician, and financial need. Adcock is undecided at this time as
to the branch of medicine in which he will eventually specialize.

Adcock’s extracurricular activities include membership in AED, the honorary medical fraternity, and in Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the honorary chemistry fraternity.
He is business manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN, is currently serving as stage manager of “Androcles and the Lion” for the
Vagabonds, and is president of SAE social fraternity.

Festival, Cinerama Highlight Film Plan

Union Film Committee Chairman Dave Simpson has announced that the Experimental Film Festival will be held on April 14-15 and
17-18. The Festival will consist of 13 films, varying in length from 5 minutes to an hour. These films were
made by Avant-garde Filmmakers, and express a feeling or idea which the maker wanted to put on film. Some of
the films to be shown are Fireworks, Psyche, Mechanics of Love, Desistfilm, Geography of the Body, and Uirapuru.

In connection with the coming Fine Arts Festival, the Film Committee will sponsor two showings of Hiroshima Mon Amour on
April 10th and 11th. The College Union also plans to sell tickets at reduced prices for the Cinerama production “Seven
Wonders of the World” at the Carolina Theater in Charlotte Tuesday night, March 20. The Carolina Theater is making possible
this Davidson Cinerama Day by offering the tickets for this one performance at a 20 percent discount.

The travelogue film, photographed through a special three-lens camera, is projected on the screen by three separate projectors. The film's
six-track stereophonic sound comes from eight speakers surrounding the audience.
