STIMULATION WILL BE FUNCTION OF NSA (See Page Two) VOL. L

The DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1962

Faculty Alters Curriculum, Reveals Duke Fund Gift

Students Choose Court

The announcement of a $125,000 Duke Endowment Fund gift and the adoption of several curriculum changes were the important features of this Tuesday’s Faculty meeting. President D. Grier Martin announced the gift from the Duke Endowment and gave the areas in which the money is to be spent. Part of the gift will go for additional books for the library and for the hiring of additional personnel to administrate the library.

BIOLOGY, TENNIS BENEFIT

More will go toward new biology laboratory equipment, the installation of all-weather tennis courts, and complete renovation and expansion of the language lab. Martin stated that more booths and the addition of better equipment would make it easier for students to fulfill language lab requirements.

AUDIO-VISUAL CENTER

President Martin also indicated that some of the gift would be spent to develop an audio-visual center from which professors could draw projectors, get film, etc. to use in classroom lectures. “We already have some of the basic equipment,” he said. “Now it is just a matter of expanding our facilities and perhaps hiring someone part-time to handle the equipment.”

One of the largest portions of the fund will be spent on the new Interdepartmental Humanities Course, which will be given for the first time next year. Salaries for faculty members who do summer work on the program will be paid from the endowment. In addition, part of the money will be used to provide various facilities, such as a special lecture hall in the Dome of Chambers that will be needed for the new course.

FROSH MATH ALTERED

The most significant change in curriculum for next year will affect freshmen math students. Math 14 will be eliminated, and a new Math 15-16 will be taken by all freshmen who desire to take any higher math courses. Math 11-12 will be retained for students who do not wish to have more than one year of college math. The Math 15-16 course will include an introduction to differential and integral calculus, differential equations, and analytical geometry.

The pre-med major was altered to include an optional year of advanced physics. Any advanced physics course can be substituted for certain advanced chemistry or biology courses and will count toward the pre-med major. In addition, no English 25-26 will be given for science majors next year. All sophomore English will be based on the 21-22 format.

Dr. W. P. Marrotte will return next year to offer a new history course: South and Southeast Asia in the Twentieth Century. Twentieth Century American History will be expanded to a two-semester course, and History 62, 71, and 72 will be absorbed into History 53, American Nation 1848-1898. Diplomatic History 83-84 will be reduced to a one-semester course.

MUSIC COMPRESSED

Music 41-42, Introduction to Music in Western Civilization, will be changed to a one-semester course next year, but it will be offered in both the spring and fall semesters. A new French 13-14 will be introduced next year, which is designed for students who have had enough French to be beyond the 11-12 stage but not up to 21-22. The course will cover the same material as 11-12 and 21-22 together.

Italian 13-14 will also be offered next year to students who have completed two years of any other language. Dr. Donald W. Tucker will teach the course.

Council May Require Charters For Clubs

BY BOB BETHEL
Davidsonian Staff Writer

In its Wednesday night meeting, the Student Council discussed two proposed pieces of legislation and voted on a procedure for the election of cheerleaders. First on the agenda was a discussion of a proposed amendment to the student body constitution which would require all student organizations to be chartered by the Student Council in order to be recognized officially on campus.

ATO's Sponsor Olympics; IFC Presents Josh White

The Davidson-Queens Olympics tomorrow afternoon will kick off a “little weekend” which will feature a concert of folk songs by Josh White and several fraternity after-parties. Included in the coed Olympics will be seven events, from a clothes-changing contest to egg-throwing and a mystery event. Six fraternity teams will be paired with six sorority teams for the competition. The Olympics will begin at 3 p.m. in Richardson stadium, unless inclement weather forces a retreat to the gymnasium. All proceeds from the Olympics are to be used to further the education of John Edison Montgomery, a Negro student at Livingstone College in Salisbury. Montgomery, who was severely crippled by polio as a child, is a sophomore at Livingstone and is maintaining a high B scholastic average.

That night at 8 p.m. the IFC will present Josh White, considered to be one of the greatest folk singers of our time. White, who accompanies himself on a guitar, has had a colorful career which includes everything from a concert tour of Europe with Mrs. Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1950 to a required appearance before the House Un-American Activities Committee when that organization began questioning the loyalties of folk singers. White has sung private concerts for such notables as President Roosevelt, the King of Denmark, and the British royal family. He has also been awarded an honorary Doctor of Folk Lore degree from Fisk University in Tennessee for his research into the origin and development of many folk songs.

Bob Waugh, IFC president, stated: “The Josh White concert will give the Davidson students a chance to see one of the finest true folk singers in the country. We're expecting a good turnout for the concert, and we also hope the student body will support the Davidson-Queens Olympics.”

Nine fraternities are scheduling activities to follow the concert. They are: Beta, KA, Kappa Sig, Phi Delt, Phi Gam, Pika, Pi Kapp, SAE, and Sig Ep.

SECOND CHILDHOOD — or first? This year’s Davidson-Queens Olympics will include scenes like the tricycle riding at last year’s version. The Olympics will have seven events in which fraternity and sorority teams will participate.

A charter, which would have to be renewed yearly, would be granted to all organizations having an active membership, a body of officers, and a legitimate purpose. A Student Activities Committee drawn from the Student Council would determine if a student organization was fulfilling the above specifications.

ANNUAL REPORT

The committee would assure that each student group is maintained as an organization from year to year and would encourage active participation in all chartered groups. In addition, every student organization would be required to make an annual report to the committee which would be a factor in the consideration of rechartering the group.

The establishment of a Magazine Advisory Board was also discussed by the Student Council. This board would be composed of the editor of the school magazine, two members from Sigma Upsilon (honorary writing fraternity), one member from the Eumenean Society, one from the Philanthropic Society, one student chosen by the chairman of the Fine Arts Department, one faculty member chosen by the rest of the board, and, as chairman, one faculty member appointed by the president of the college.

FUNCTIONS OF BOARD

The board would determine and strive to maintain the general aims of the student magazine and would assist the editor in achieving these aims by channeling to him material for his editorial consideration. The members of the board would meet at least four times a year. The consensus among the members of the Student Council was that the school’s magazine must either be changed or abolished. The main point of disagreement was whether or not the advisory board should have censorship powers.

CHEERLEADERS

Joe Martin proposed a procedure for the election of cheerleaders, and his proposition was approved unanimously by the council. There will be ten cheerleaders with not less than two from each class, and these ten men will serve on a permanent basis from year to year. Vacancies caused by graduation will be filled by elections in the spring, and each fall the Freshman class will elect two men to augment the cheerleading squad.

In a final bit of business the Student Council voted its unanimous commendation of Head Cheerleader Joe Martin and his entire squad for their outstanding work during the past year.

Robinson, Nichols, ‘Y’ Nominees

The YMCA announced today the nominations of Bud Robinson and Neil Nichols for president, Andy Sale and Dan Adams for vice-president, George Oehler and Bob Bethel for secretary, and Rick Brand and Lowell Kirkman for treasurer. The nominees for president will give their campaign speeches in chapel Tuesday, March 13, and voting for all candidates will take place the following Wednesday during chapel, third, and fourth periods. In accordance with YMCA policy, the nominees for president are rising seniors, the nominees for vice-president are rising juniors, and the nominees for...Secretary and treasurer are rising sophomores. Bud Robinson, nominee for president, is treasurer of Sigma Chi social fraternity. Neil Nichols, the other presidential nominee, is an independent and an active member of the Westminster Fellowship. Andy Sale, one candidate for vice-president, is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. The other candidate, Don Adams, is a member of ATO social fraternity and also draws political cartoons for THE DAVIDSONIAN. Of the candidates for secretary, George Oehler is a member of Sigma Nu social fraternity and Bob Bethel is an independent. Rick Brand, a nominee for treasurer, is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and his opponent, Lowell Kirkman, is a member of ATO.

Catalogue Outlines Summer Session

The catalogues for Davidson's 1962 summer school, which were delayed in coming out because of a printer's mistake in dates, became available for distribution today. The catalogue shows that the summer session will be divided into three terms for non-science courses and two terms for scientific subjects. The non-science terms will be held from June 12 - 29, July 2 - 24, and July 26 - August 11, while those for the science courses are to be held June 7 - 29 and July 2 - 25.

Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

CARRELL IS STUDENT BODY PREXY

"THE FIRST MEETING of the 1962-63 Student Council is now called to order," proclaims newly elected President Danny Carrell. But he will have to wait several weeks before the student body elects for him the necessary quorum to do business. Meanwhile, other new officers John Spratt, Fred McGuirt, and Tom Heffner compose the council. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Heffner Wins In Runoff As Elections Continue

Danny Carrell was elected next year’s Student Body president Wednesday, defeating John Killian by 21 votes in a run-off election in which 627 students voted. Carrell received 324 votes to Killian’s 303. Tom Heffner was elected Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Body Tuesday, receiving 298 votes against 249 for Dick Bates.

65% VOTE

The runoff election for the presidency was required by the closeness of voting Tuesday which saw the third candidate Ken Kelley eliminated. None of the candidates received a majority of the 647 votes cast as required for election by the Elections Board. Over 65 percent of the students voted Tuesday, the highest percentage this year, and the same percentage that voted for president last year. Calling the 65 percent turnout “pretty incredible,” Elections Board chairman Clay Atkins stated, “I hope the enthusiasm continues even though the elections cover a long period.” He noted that very few ballots have had to be discarded for being improperly filled out, an improvement over past elections.

ELECTION SCHEDULE

Honor Court nominations will be Monday. Each class is electing two of its members to add to the four juniors and two sophomores now on the court who will remain in office next year. The two candidates for the YMCA presidency will speak in chapel Tuesday morning. Voting Wednesday will determine next year’s YMCA president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer. Nominations for the offices are made by the YMCA. Following completion of Honor Court elections, the Junior Class will nominate the Freshman Advisor for the Class of ‘66. The juniors will then choose the Freshman Advisor and next year's Quips and Cranks editor. At the same time, probably Monday week, the entire student body will choose the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN for next year. Elections for class officers will follow. Commenting on elections procedures, Atkins noted that there are only general regulations covering voting for student offices. Procedures change from year to year, as determined by the Elections Board with the Student Council's approval.

Compton's Stroke Endangers Lecture

Dr. Arthur Compton, atomic physicist who is scheduled to be the fourth Reynolds Lecturer of the year, suffered a stroke last week at his home in California. Latest Associated Press reports indicate that he is in critical condition. Although college officials have received no definite word, there is some doubt that he will be able to fulfill his speaking engagement, even if he recovers fully.

INITIATION SET FOR APRIL

Phi Bete Selects Five Seniors

Five Davidson seniors have been elected to membership in North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. They will join the seven chosen last fall to make a total of 12 from this year’s senior class. Those elected are Gene Adcock, Paul Leonard, Dave Gilmour, Marvin Rozear, and Jimmy Brown. Phi Beta Kappa selections from this year’s senior class are now completed. On April 13, initiation will be conducted for new members. This will be followed by a banquet and a lecture delivered by Dr. W. F. Stinespring, a graduate of Duke Divinity School. Dr. Stinespring's topic will be “Some Contributions of the Ancient Near East to Western Civilization.” Phi Beta Kappa recognizes a limited number of the outstanding students in the Senior Class on the basis of academic averages, but the five seniors who have been chosen also represent a wide variety of extracurricular activities on the Davidson campus.

Adcock, business manager of the DAVIDSONIAN, is a pre-med student from Henderson. He is a Dana scholar, a member of AED pre-medical fraternity, and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, where he has served as secretary and president. Leonard, a Staley Memorial Scholarship holder, is from Davidson. He is a history major and plans to go into the ministry. Gilmour, another pre-med student, is from Charlotte. He is a member of ODK, the Honor Court, AED, and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He has been active in athletics as a member of the track and cross country teams.

CATFISH SWIM IN LOOP MEET (See Page Three)

NUMBER NINETEEN

Heads Of Annual And Y

Three Vie For Reins Of Annual

Juniors Jim Norman, Ted Scarboro, and Hal Todd have been nominated by the Publications Board to run for the editorship of next year’s Quips and Cranks. Voting for publications editors will begin in two weeks. Only members of the rising Senior Class may vote for the editor of the yearbook as is true for the Freshman Advisorship, a position which will be filled at the same time. (The platforms of the three yearbook candidates are carried on the fourth page of this issue.)

Jim Norman, a Pika from Charlotte, majors in psychology. In addition to membership in the Radio Club, he works with the Vagabonds. Norman is a photographer for the annual this year and is editor of the Faculty section. Ted Scarboro, from Wadesboro, is a math major. A Pika, he is also a member of the Concert Band, the Radio Club, and Philanthropic Literary Society. Scarboro is the chief photographer for the annual this year. Majoring in English, Hal Todd is from Travelers Rest, S. C. He is a Beta and this year edited the Beta rush book. A cheerleader, Todd currently serves as Fraternity Editor for the annual.

DAVIDSONIAN candidates will be announced next week as will be their platforms. The Publications Board, however, has approved the motion of the Scripts ‘n Pranks staff that the nominations and election for the magazine be held at a later time.

Ward Discusses Digital Computers

Dr. James A. Ward, '31, will deliver a lecture on digital computers at 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday, March 14, in Dana 114. Dr. W. G. McGavock of the Mathematics Department has announced that the talk will be on a level intelligible to all students. Ward is presently a mathematical consultant for Remington Rand Univac, a division of the Sperry Rand Corporation. His recent work has concerned the use of large digital computers, especially for computing trajectories and satellite orbits. Dr. Ward taught college mathematics 23 years, including a year at Davidson. He has given a number of lectures on computers and their applications.

Rozear is a pre-med student from Jacksonville, Fla. An outstanding marksman on the rifle team, he has lettered and won membership in the D-Club. He is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and is manager of the student store. Brown is a language major from Winston-Salem. To continue his studies next year, he is planning to travel to Europe. He is a member of Le Cercle Francais.