: ad yd HOMECOMING — EP ait nit rshat WILDCATS VS. INDIANS : (See Page Three) The News and Editorial
Voice of Davidson College . . 3 alo % oT = DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1962
wee : NUMBER FIVE B Homecoming Schedule FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12 8:00 p.m. Artists Series Concert: Espanola Spanish Dance Troupe, Chambers
Auditorium 9:00 p.m. HOMECOMING DANCE, Johnston Gymnasium featuring a Tommy Dorsey Orchestra SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13 10:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. Registration, David
Ovens College Union, Terrace Lobby 10:00 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Open House 10:00-11:30 a.m. Coffee Hour, Union Lobby 10:00 a.m. Tennis Exhibition:
Varsity and Freshman Teams 10:30 a.m. Cross-Country Meet: Davidson vs. The Citadel, Soccer Field 11:00 a.m. Wildcat Meeting, Morrison Room,
Union Open to all Davidson alumni, parents, and friends 11:00 a.m. Judging of Homecoming Displays, Patterson Fraternity Court 12:00 Noon
HOMECOMING LUNCHEON, Union, South Court (In the event of inclement weather, Chambers Banquet Hall) 2:00 p.m. HOMECOMING FOOTBALL GAME Davidson
vs. William and Mary Halftime Ceremonies will include the installation of 1962-63 officers of the Davidson College Alumni Association JOE
ANSLEY — SENIOR CO-CAPTAIN 8:00 p.m. Debates, Chambers Auditorium DAVE LOPP — JUNIOR CO-CAPTAIN Mislaid Species Rediscovered: Pupils Dilate As
Myriad Alights - - aameN Teepe | 1962-63 Sweethearts Huey Smith Cancels, Cantey, Kimrey Contest Brings Jarmels Headlining the activities
of Homecoming 1962 is a program that ranges from the rock ’n roll of the Drifters to the music of
the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra; from the judging of Homecoming decorations to the annual football game; and from the exotic dances
of a Spanish Dance Troupe to the more exotic dances of the fraternity after-parties. Begun this morning with a pep
rally led by the cheerleaders, this year's Homecoming promises to be an important occasion for all participants. The campus welcomes
visiting female companions, returning alumni, performers, and the excitement of this year's first dance weekend. Tim Kimrey and Bill Cantey
are the two candidates selected this week by the Publications Board for editor of next year’s Wildcat Handbook. The election
has been tentatively scheduled for next Thursday after chapel. Kimrey and Cantey both worked on this year’s edition of the
handbook. Kimrey served as business manager; Cantey served as a staff writer in charge of several sections of the handbook.
Cantey, a junior from Columbia, South Carolina, was working for his second year as a member of the Handbook staff.
In his freshman year, he was also a staff writer. Cantey is majoring in economics and is a member of
Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Kimrey, also a junior, is from Raleigh. In addition to being editor of his high
school annual, he served as assistant business manager for Quips and Cranks his freshman year. Kimrey is an English-History major
and is a member of ATO. Although a decrease in budget is probable this year, I feel that additional advertising
can make up the difference. The quality of the handbook — with freshmen pictures, full-gloss pages, and comprehensive format —
should be maintained,” concluded Cantey. Commenting on changes he would make in the handbook, Kimrey stated, “I would make it
more readable. It's very difficult to be creative with something like the handbook, whose main function is to provide information.
Basically, I'd like to change the format to make it more engaging.”The viewpoint of the handbook from the attitude of
the hill orienting incoming freshmen to the attitude of present students orienting the new freshmen. Several changes have taken place
in the Publications Board of Davidson College. Ed Willer, Business Manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN, will include a tennis exhibition at
10, a Davidson-Citadel cross country meet, alumni registration, a coffee hour, open house, and the judging of the Homecoming displays
of the twelve fraternities. Judging will be based on overall effect (40%), the amount of work (30%), and originality (30%).
The results will be announced at the football game halftime.

From 10 to 1, the alumni may register at the Davidson College Union in the lobby. The Union’s Coffee Hour
will be from 10 until 11:30. In the Morrison Room of the Union, the Wildcat Club will hold a meeting
open to all alumni, parents, and friends. The annual Homecoming luncheon at 12 noon will be on the south court
of the Union. An Open House for all guests will be held for the New Chambers Dome Room, the new
administration offices in the south basement of Chambers, the Dana Science Laboratories, the John R. Cunningham Fine Arts Center, Eu
and Phi Literary Halls, and the College Church until 1:30 and again after the football game.

At 2, the Homecoming football game against William and Mary will take place. President D. Grier Martin announced that Dr.
Richard R. Bernard, professor of mathematics, has replaced Professor J. Kimbrough, also of the Mathematics Dept., as permanent faculty member
to the board. While Dr. Bernard is away on leave-of-absence, Dean Richard C. Burts will assume his position. The Student
Body Financial Committee, working through the board, has announced the allocation of funds to the various Student Body publications. The
annual, Quips and Cranks, will receive $7,900. Next in line is THE DAVIDSONIAN with an allocation of $5,077. Scrips and
Pranks will get $2,038 and The Wildcat Handbook $1,275.

A. Lyndon Foscue, of Long Island, N.Y., will be sworn in as president of the Alumni Association tomorrow during halftime
of the Davidson-William and Mary football game. Foscue was graduated from Davidson in 1920 and is now vice-president of Union
Carbide Co. N.Y. He has been an elder and a deacon in the Roslyn Presbyterian Church and is a trustee
of North Shore Hospital, Manhasset, L.I. At Davidson, he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, manager of the baseball
team, president of Philanthropic Literary Society, and secretary-treasurer of his junior class. He has been an assistant here in math
and chemistry and was on the Executive Committee of the Athletic Association. He was a letterman and a member of
the Polity Club and Gamma Sigma Epsilon. Foscue lives on Long Island, N.Y. He is a Mason and a member
of the Lions Club. His wife is Mary Snyder Foscue, and he has two daughters, both married. Other officers are
James Icette, president-elect; Samuel M. Hemphill, ‘39, of Hickory.

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes Scrips ‘n Pranks’ latest attempt on the literary scene. Something was bound to enter the thalidomide that
fell into the printers’ ink... In 1956 he received an honorary doctor of science degree from West Virginia Wesleyan.
