The Citadel, Furman, and George Washington each were FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1962 THE MYAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE HIGHLIGHTS and SIDELIGHTS BY
BILL PRIDGEN FOGLEMAN TURNS LITERARY Maybe our coaches just don’t have enough to do. This would seem to be the
case of Coach Harvie Fogleman, who, on top of coaching Davidson's soccer team to the finest season that it has
ever had (6-2), and conducting regular practice for the tennis team, has time to write a book. This literary creation,
Tennis for the Coach, Teacher and Player, has been almost completed and should be ready for the presses in a
short while. The printing will be finished sometime in the latter part of January. According to Fogleman, this booklet, which
contains numerous charts and diagrams, will deal with a subject which has never before received adequate coverage, that is, how
to coach a player or a squad, and showing them practices and aids on how to improve on different aspects
of their game. Fogleman hopes that his work will become a standard aid to coaches across the country.

Much Heralded ‘Cats Open Tonight Tomorrow morning Davidson's rifle team plays host to Richmond sharpshooters. Today the 'Cats risked their
3-1 record against Presbyterian College here. Captain C. C. Partridge, team coach, was hesitant to evaluate the strength of Richmond.
“I know they had a good team last year and will have one this year, but I am confident we
can beat them.” The 'Cat firers lost their perfect record Nov. 16 here, when the Cadets drubbed them by almost
50 points. However, it must be mentioned that Citadel had superior equipment, using Anschutz rifles exclusively, with target ammunition, while
Davidson had but one of the Anschutz rifles and was using semi-standard ammunition. Coach Partridge picked Clemson, West Virginia, and
Citadel as the teams to beat in the coming matches.

Erskine, Duke To Test School’s Finest Squad Tonight the 1962-63 Davidson Wildcat basketball team opens its season against Erskine College.
The 'Cats will be seeking revenge against a team that upset them last year in Gastonia, 75-66. BY RICK SMITH
Sports Staff Writer Although the Wildcats will be favored, Coach Driesell does not expect an easy victory. Tuesday night Erskine
walked over an outmanned George State College team, 82-45. Top guns for the Erskine five were Bill Walters and Buck
Ellis with 16 points each. Most observers are already looking past tonight’s clash. Tomorrow night's game with Duke University in
Durham shapes up as one of the best of the season, at least to the optimistic 'Cat enthusiasts. Driesell will
also count heavily upon last year’s All-Conference center Bill Jarman. Jarman, a senior, averaged 21.5 points a game last year.
Others who will see plenty of action are 6'-7" junior forward Terry Holland (honorable mention All-Conference), 6'-1" senior guard Haywood
Evans, and two sophomore guards, 6'-3" Charlie Marcon and 5'-8" Barry Teague. Davidson may start a team which averages a
very respectable 6'5". This compares favorably with any team which the Cats will face this season. Just how much of
a dark horse Davidson really is will be partly determined by tonight's and especially tomorrow night's games. Erskine is a
comparatively unknown team, but the Duke Blue Devils are in every way a “prestige” team, being ranked second in the
nation in most pre-season cage polls. A victory over Duke would be one of the greatest surprises of the year,
but then, the 'Cats “could surprise...”

We have little doubt that Fogleman’s booklet will be a good one or that it will find a ready market
among tennis coaches across the country, for Fogleman has already earned a name as one of the best tennis coaches
in this country because of the fine teams he consistently put out while at Cincinnati. He will have little difficulty
in promoting the book because he already knows most of the college coaches in the United States. As busy as
he has been in getting this book together, Fogleman has also been working on the tennis schedule for this spring.
Although the schedule has not been officially set yet, we do know that it will be one of the finest
in recent years for Davidson and will contain matches with several top-flight Midwestern and Eastern schools. The schedule also includes
a spring holiday tour through Florida. We congratulate Coach Fogleman on the fine work he has been doing in the
short time that he has been here, and we hope he will be with us for a long time to
come.

SHOULD HECKARD BE ALL-CONFERENCE? Last Monday in the annual balloting held by sportswriters and sportscasters, the 1962 All-Southern Conference football
squad was chosen. West Virginia led all other teams in placing four players on the first team, and William &
Mary added two men to the team. VMI, VPI, The Citadel, Furman, and George Washington each were able to place
one man on the squad. The player collecting the highest number of votes was quarterback Jerry Yost from West Virginia.
He polled 297 votes. Following him were William & Mary guard Bob Soleau with 276 votes, and George Washington halfback
Dick Drummond with 257 votes.

FIRST TEAM E Gene Heeter W. Va. E Charlie Brendle Citadel T John Sapinsky W&M T Bill Welsh VMI G
Bob Soleau W&M G Newt Green VPI C Pete Goimarac W. Va. B Jerry Yost W. Va. B Dick Drummond
GW B Elliott Keller Furman B Glen Holton W. Va.

As usual, Davidson failed to place a man on the first team. In fact, the only Davidson player who received
any recognition at all was sophomore end Steve Heckard, who earned an honorable mention from the balloting. Even Richmond, the
only other team not to have a player named to the first team, placed three men on the second squad.
Why this complete ignoring of Davidson? We know that when a team finishes low in conference standings it does not
have as many top players as the conference champs, but just because we didn’t have a winning team does not
mean we have no players of top caliber? We do not wish to question the decision of these men, for
they had tough decisions to make, but we do wonder if their choice of All-Conference ends wasn’t a little in
variance with the facts. Four conference ends polled more votes than Heckard. Why? The only reason we can see for
this is that Heckard is a sophomore, which is of course not a valid reason, and the men participating in
the poll picked nine juniors to the first team, so they weren’t giving just the older boys votes. A look
at the statistics will show Heckard’s claim to the first, or at least, the second team. When Davidson’s season ended
on Nov. 10, Heckard was leading the conference in most areas of pass receiving. His twenty-six catches put him on
top in that category, and, in total yardage, he was in front of any other conference end by over 100
yards. If this wasn’t enough, then we might add that he also scored more points than any other end, and
most backs, in the conference. These are the facts—how do the sportswriters ignore them? If they say that he earned
much of his record against inferior teams, it can be pointed out that Davidson played many of the better teams
in the conference, and Heckard showed up just as well against them. In fact, it was in the final game
of the season against Richmond that Heckard made his best showing, catching six passes, in a game in which they
both were playing. Why was Heckard overlooked? Just because Davidson had a bad year in the conference?

GOOD LUCK! There should be a mob of Davidson fans up at Duke tomorrow night. Athletic Director Tom Scott reports
that all of the three hundred tickets he had for sale have been taken. The ATO’s took fifty of them
and are chartering a bus.to take them to the game. That's the kind of spirit we like to see. Good
luck tomorrow night, Wildcats. There are a lot of people rooting for you.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE

His season total to nine, which ties the Davidson College record for the number of goals in a season.

D Club Initiates 42

Last Monday night the Block D club held its fall semester initiation of new members in Johnston Gymnasium. President Bob
Cordle announced that 42 new members were inducted in the ceremony. The new members are as follows:

Seniors — Bobby Austell, Bill Bankhead, Ken Barger, Avery Burns, Eddie Crutchfield, Fred Lopp, Don McQueen, Bill Plunket, Mims Rogers,
and Zach Smith.

Juniors — Howard Arbuckle, Bill Barron, Bob Bost, Jim Bulla, Earl Cole, Tom Day, Lyman Dillon, Dick Forrester, Dick Fromm,
Dick Fulp, Jack Hollenbeck, L. H. Hutchens, Gene McCutchen, Jim Moore, Dave Olin, Charlie Rowe, Bruce Steigner, Tom Whitley, Joe
Wolfe, and Dick Wray.

Sophomores — John Barrow, Jan Brakel, Tex Cathy, John Curry, Steve Davidson, Chester Davis, Pat Fisher, Tom Heffner, Will Jackson,
Howard Morris, and Bruce Swain.

Harriers Capture Fifth In Conference

Davidson's cross-country team finished their 1962 season on Nov. 19 at the Southern Conference cross-country meet in Charleston, S.C. The
’Cat harriers managed to place fifth in a field of eight teams. Furman’s team started out strong, winning the first
three positions, but due to lack of depth had to take a second place to West Virginia in the overall
score. Dennie Paterson, the conference’s outstanding runner all season, finished first. The Citadel, Richmond, and William & Mary placed below
Davidson.

Coach Heath Whittle announced that Sterling Martin was chosen to the All-Conference team for the third straight year. Martin took
an eighth place in the conference meet. Whittle, in speaking of Martin said, “He’s been one of the finest boys
I've ever coached.” Fred Heffner finished tenth to the top twenty-five finishers.

Wrestling Season Opens Tuesday

The 1962-63 wrestling season gets off to a start on Tuesday when Coach Charlie Parker’s matmen play host to Appalachian
State Teachers College at 3 p.m. in the local gym. The 'Cat wrestlers were able to knock off Appalachian last
year 62-28, but Parker doesn’t expect them to be so easy this year. “This is their fourth year with wrestling,”
Parker commented, “and they've gotten better each year. I don’t have any idea what they'll be bringing down this year.”
Parker, unwilling to commit himself to a prediction, said “We have a young team. We've got some good sophomores, but
they haven't been under fire as yet.”

Last season the matmen compiled an overall 3-6 record, and this year they have added East Carolina and South Carolina
to their schedule. Parker had to say of East Carolina that “they're tough.” The ’Cats meet them in their second
meet of the year next Saturday.

The Hub Just Across the Street Featuring Whitman’s Chocolates Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II and Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Rent a car the BUDGET Way, less per
mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you need. We Feature Free Hotel and Airport Pickup and Delivery
Service. 376-0213 301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte

Basketball Season Opens With Oak Ridge

BY DENNY PHILLIPS Sports Staff Writer

The 1962-63 version of the Davidson College freshman basketball team makes its debut against Oak Ridge Military Institute in Johnston
Gymnasium tonight at 6:30 p.m. Last year the frosh trounced the Oak Ridge squad. Coach Joe Hunt said this year’s
team has looked good in practice, but “it takes a game to really tell how good they are.” He praised
6'5” Dick Synder and 6'3” Ronnie Stone as being the freshman stand-outs. “Synder is a real good player,” exclaimed Hunt,
“and we're really impressed with him. He's the one to watch. Stone is a good shooter and we expect things
from him also.”

Friday's starting five will probably be composed of Synder, Stone, Rufus Adair, 6'4”, Jim Hyder, 6'1", and Bill Tetrick, 6'3".
Completing the eleven-man roster are Cam Harkness, Basil Hicks, Pat Hubbard, Tommy Reams, Alvie Steele, and Bill Walton.

Will they be as good as last year’s Wildkittens, who wound up with a 15-3 record? “Well, we have a
good schedule again this year,” stated Hunt. “We'll be playing ‘em one at a time and hope for the best.
With practice we should develop a good basketball team, and we hope all the boys will improve with experience so
that they can help on next year's varsity.”

They won’t be able to repeat all of last year’s victories, though. For the Universities of North Carolina and South
Carolina have decided that they don't want to play us this year—and Furman isn’t even bothering to sponsor a freshman
basketball team this year. Tomorrow the ‘Kittens have their first big test, meeting the Duke freshmen at Duke. Next Tuesday
they take on the hoopsters of Gardner Webb Junior College here.

The ATO’s finished third in the meet with 10 points and the Betas and SAE’s tied for fourth with 9
points.

RESULTS

25 Yard Butterfly
Jim Stokes ATO
Dave Olin Sigma Chi

50 Yard Free Style
Ivan Rohrer SAE
Jim Moore Sigma Chi

75 Yard Free Style
Hal Foss Phi Delt
Alan Turner Beta

50 Yard Back Stroke
Jim Downey SPE
Billy Clark SAE

50 Yard Breast Stroke
Sandy Black KA
David Stitt Phi Delt

75 Yard Individual Medley
Jim Stokes ATO
Mark Waldon Pi Kapp

75 Yard Medley
Phi Delt — Slaton, Faber-rod, Gibbs
Sigma Chi — Chip Derrick, Bill Jacobs, Steve Gill

200 Yard Free Style
Phi Delt — Foss, Smith, Guyton, Thurmon
Sigma Chi — Olin, Derrick, Mike Smith, Gill

TOTAL POINTS
Phi Delt 21
Sigma Chi 17
ATO 10
Beta 9
SAE 9
SPE 6
Independents 5
Phi Gam 4
Sigma Nu 3

Gifts For Her
Blouses by Bush Wilson Lin. Gant Villager Country Shirt
Sweaters by Villager Munrospun
Buy Your Gifts Now At
