FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1962 THE DAVIDSONIAN

IVY-LEAGUERS PLAY HERE TOMORROW AT 1:30 P.M.

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

A NEW CONCEPT OF DAVIDSON BASKETBALL — VICTORY

TOMORROW night’s NCAA finals in Louisville, Ky., will officially bring to a close the 1961-62 college basketball season. For Davidson
College, the season ended on March 1. However, even though Lefty Driesell & Co. didn’t win any championships or bring
home any trophies, it was a good year for basketball on our campus. This year’s cage contingent did quite a
few things that no other Davidson five has been able to do in the past. A few of the school
records set this year include the 12-game winning streak, the 110 points scored against Mississippi College, and the overall team
free throw percentage of 72.8 for a season.

Furthermore, this year’s team compiled the best record that a Davidson team has had since 1949, beat the runner-up (Clemson)
of the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament, got into the Southern Conference tournament for the first time since 1959, and finished
higher (fifth) in the conference than any Wildcat team has done in the Good Lord only knows how long. In
addition, this year’s frosh quintet instilled a whole new concept of basketball into the minds of the average Davidson student.
Seeing basketball played as they had never seen it played before, the typical Davidsonian discovered that watching a Davidson team
in action could be lots of fun and that victory is not an idealistic concept, but, instead, something very tangible.

Driesell undoubtedly has a better nucleus with which to work next season than any other Wildcat coach has had in
the past. But the Wildcat mentor is not making any rash statements concerning next year’s possibilities, even though a sly
smile reveals his inward confidence. For example, “How many games are we going to win next year, Coach?” we inquired.
“Oh,” he retorted, “we ought to have a pretty good season. We should be a little better than we were
this year. Of course, I like to think we can win ’em all.” “What about a championship club?” we beamed.
“Well,” he drawled, “I thought we could win it this year, remember? But we didn’t. Who knows? Maybe next year
we won't even get into the tournament!”

Despite these, to be frank, understatements, we got the feeling as we walked out of this man’s office that next
year is going to be a big year for Davidson on the basketball court. Certainly, it will be one of
the biggest challenges a Davidson team has ever faced schedule-wise. Duke, Wake Forest, West Virginia, and Cincinnati are among our
opponents next year. The latter, the Cincinnati Bearcats, who will be played on December 22 up there, just may be
national champions following this weekend’s games in Louisville.

We also got the feeling that Lefty Driesell is a man doing a man’s job. With a good crop of
freshmen enrolled this year and only three full scholarships available for next year, it would be tempting to slack off
recruiting. But on his blackboard are dozens of names of, you can be assured, top-notch high school cagers. The three
scholarships won’t be wasted.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

Top 3 I-F Cage Teams: ’Cats Host Tourin

WHIFF! — The sound of a swishing bat fills the air as GRAHAM SHOWALTER takes a healthy cut during batting
practice this week. But the ball settled snugly into the mitt of catcher HARRY CLINE when Showalter missed. The baseball
team entertains Yale tomorrow afternoon at 1:30. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

K Sigs, Fijis, and KA’s

The Kappa Sigs, Phi Gams, and KA’s were firmly established as the top three fraternity basketball teams this week. The
busiest of these three was the KA’s, who put on a tremendous stretch drive of six straight wins to finish
their schedule with a 9-3 record, clinching third place in the I-F standings. The Kappa Sigs, who have already clinched
the title with an 11-0 record, were idle, while the Phi Gams, who own a 9-2 record and who may
have to share second place with the KA’s depending on the outcome of their Monday night battle with the SAE's,
won by forfeit over the Pi Kapps.

This week's I-F checklist: On Tuesday, the KA’s rolled over the Phi Delts, 67-48, behind the following four double-figure men:
Rick Smyre (21), Haynes Kelly (17), Sam Grimes (13), and John Sharp (11). Dan Calhoun and Net Harris paced the
Delts’ attack with 14 and 12, respectively. On Wednesday, the KA’s clipped the Independents, 47-41. Independent Mark Dunn, the league's
top scorer, hit 19.

The following schedule for Monday night, March 26, will complete I-F basketball action: 7 p.m. - SAE vs. Phi Gam;
8:30 p.m. - Pi Kapp vs. ATO and Kappa Sig vs. Sigma Chi.

I-F CAGE STANDINGS
W L
Kappa Sigs 11 0
Phi Gams 9 2
KA’s 9 3
ATO’s 7 4
Sigma Chis 6 5
Independents 6 5
Phi Delts 5 6
SAE’s 4 7
Betas 3 8
Pikas 3 8
Pi Kapps 2 9
Sig Eps 2 9
Sigma Nus 1 10

TOP TEN I-F SCORERS
Mark Dunn, Ind 18.3
Paul Duvall, ATO 17.5
Johnny Rogers, KS 17.3
David Johnson, Ind 16.4
Jim Fuller, KS 15.6
Ed Hines, SAE 14.3
Earl Cole, Ind 14.3
Rick Smyre, KA 14.2
Tommy Hamilton, Beta 14.0
George Sledge, ATO 13.5

Golfers Match Duke In Charlotte Mon.

Following an opening victory over High Point College, the Davidson golf team faces stiffer competition this coming Monday when they
entertain Duke's highly regarded chippers at the Myers Park Country Club. The BlueDevils, ranked second only to powerful North Carolina
in this state, are considered among the nation’s better college golf teams. The Davidson College baseball team entertains Yale University’s
touring sluggers tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 on the local diamond. The Bulldogs, who came south in search of sunny skies,
are playing such teams as Wake Forest, North Carolina, and Camp Lejeune on their trip. This past Tuesday the Ivy
Leaguers clobbered Camp Lejeune, 19-2. This afternoon on the home field the ‘Cats sought revenge against a Catawba team that
beat them, 12-6, this past Wednesday in Salisbury. The Indians took advantage of several Davidson errors, which paved the way
for five runs. Tommy Hamilton's two hits led the ‘Cats at the plate, while Jim Moore was effective during a
brief relief role on the mound.

Coach Tom Stevens' club successfully opened its season last week against Pfeiffer at Davidson.

UP AND OVER — Davidson's ace high jumper, KEITH FRASER, scissors over the bar, which is resting at 6-2, during
a workout this week. The track team opens its schedule Monday at 3 p.m. against Catawba on the local track.
(Staff Photo by McCutchen).

Paced by junior Frank McPhillips, the ‘Cats overcame High Point this past Monday on the Blair Park course in High
Point, 16-11. After nine holes of play, McPhillips’ opponent, Stan Kinney, had him 1-0, but the Wildcats’ number one man
rallied on the back nine for a 2-1 victory. McPhillips was also the day’s medalist. The Mobile, Ala., native fired
a 41-36—77 for honors, and was trailed by the Bison's Kinney, who was two strokes off the pace at 39-40—79.
Other point-getters for Davidson were Haywood Evans, Tommy Neal, and Mims Rogers, all of whom defeated their opponents, 3-0. Frank
Tulloch and Bob Porter were beaten by their opponents, 3-0. In team play, McPhillips and Tulloch teamed up to tie
High Point's top two players, 1½-1½. Evans and Neal combined for a 3-0 team win, while Rogers and Porter lost
by a 2½-½ score.

GOLF JACKET by LONDON FOG
It’s all the jacket you need! Water and wind repellent... wrinkle resistant. Tailored of Calibre Cloth, an exclusive super blend
of Dacron and fine combed cotton. Unconditionally washable... drip-dries ready to go. With convertible English collar that buttons up for
rough weather. Color: Sizes: $15. Rush Wilson, ath. McCutchen.

Springtime is not so rosy for everyone. For Davidson College's football players and for college gridders throughout the nation, for
instance, it is a time for hard knocks and bruises. For rising sophomore football players, the annual spring drills present
a chance to get the inside track on open positions left vacant by seniors. Here freshmen WILL JACKSON (centering) and
TOMMY WORRELL (foreground) listen to quarterback EARL COLE call signals. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

THE BELL TELEPHONE SALUTE: DON PICKARD
Soon after his return from the Army two years ago, Don Pickard began managing a telephone public office in Chicago.
Because of his skill in handling the public relations tasks of this job, Don was transferred to a new job
in the Public Relations Department. Here his public office experience comes in very handy as he works with other departments
of the company to promote the kind of service that lives up to customer expectations. Don Pickard of the Illinois
Bell Telephone Company, and other young men like him in Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country, help bring the finest
communications service in the world to a growing America. (@) BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

Resembling the famous Pancho Segura, Wildcat netter BILL BACKLUND makes use of both hands to swat the ball in doubles
action against Pfeiffer on Tuesday. Playing the nets is JOHNNY ARIAIL. Backlund and Ariail defeated their opponents, 6-3, 7-5, and
Davidson won the match, 5-2. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

M.I.T. and Purdue Plan Busy Week For Netters
BY BILL PRIDGEN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's tennis team will see plenty of action this coming week when Purdue’s netters, looking for a week of practice
in a warmer climate, spend their spring holidays on this campus. They plan to arrive at Davidson on Sunday and
remain until Friday. Along with its practice sessions, Purdue has a regulation match scheduled against the ‘Cats on Thursday afternoon.
Davidson Coach Harry Fogleman ranks the Boilermakers as “one of the better teams in the Big Ten Conference.” M.I.T.’s tennis
team will also pay a visit to Davidson this week for a match with the ‘Cats netters on Wednesday afternoon.
Fogleman said that he had little knowledge of the strength of M.I.T. They met Davidson here two years ago and
took the ‘Cats, 6-3. Davidson will carry a 1-1 record into the M.I.T. match. This past Tuesday the ‘Cats downed
Pfeiffer, 5-2, but yesterday fell to a powerful Michigan team, 6-1.

The results of the Pfeiffer match are as follows: Barry McGee (P) def. Bobby Austell, 6-0, 7-5; Bobby Snead (D)
def. Brown Gardner, 6-4, 6-0; Bob Hartness (D) def. Boyd Stokes, 6-0, 6-2; Bo Strain (P) def. Gene McCutchen, 7-5,
6-4; and Joe Wolfe (D) def. Carol Nass, 6-0, 6-1. Doubles action went as follows: Johnny Ariail and Bill Backlund
(D) def. McGee and Gardner, 6-3, 7-5; and Hartness and Wolfe (D) def. Strain and John Stokes, 6-2, 6-1. Incidentally,
Wolfe's singles opponent was a young lady. However, Wolfe showed no chivalry on the court by promptly downing her and
by allowing her only one game in two sets.
