The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BILL HAGEN
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

EP WILLER
Business Manager

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Art In The Balance

The Arts and Davidson. A few years ago saying this would have been ludicrous. Art was viewed as a frill
and as having no hard-nosed use then. It certainly didn’t lend itself to a successful pursuit of the dollar, the
reassurance of a congregation or the securing of a long list of patients. But that was a few years ago,
you say. Now we have a Fine Arts Building with all its excellent facilities that visitors are so impressed with.
Its lights are on every night and it is the hub of activity in music, drama, and art. This week,
however, the most active part of this hub (the Vagabonds) was threatened with extinction. The immediate reasons were overwork and
lack of full cooperation on the part of the administration. The underlying problem, as we see it, is that the
Hill (and we dare say the student body) has simply not fully appreciated the place of a dynamic fine arts
program at Davidson. A question occurs to us—one that was asked when the Fine Arts Center was first dedicated—what is
the building there for? Is it to ensure that the fine arts will play an integral role in the liberal
arts curriculum? Or is it to impress traveling philanthropists with our Captured Culture? As if buildings alone can turn out
the “Compleat Man.”

Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz undertook his program with the aim of involving as many students as possible in the dramatic
arts. In this he supposedly had the complete backing of the faculty and administration. Certainly the results have benefited all.
Indeed we would be willing to bet that drama has provided the most important bridge between the college and the
community. But cooperation stayed mired in the “frill” concept. The result was frustration. Another professor, Dr. Robert S. Lord, had
a similar aim. He wanted to make music an integral part of the curriculum and he was well on his
way toward the goal. He ran into problems of a similar nature. We can only speculate what part, however minor,
they played in his decision to leave. We wonder if every means was exhausted to keep him here. At any
rate we are glad to see the immediate crisis resolved. We hope that Don Stowell will consider withdrawing his resignation
or taking only temporary leave. The Vagabonds have survived and now lead a steady, perhaps precarious, existence. With that existence
we see the future hope of all the arts at Davidson in the balance. If this situation accomplished anything, we
hope it did more than just cut a few more strands of red tape.

Patriotism In The Narrow Sense

Two weeks ago the suave, sophisticated world lost its composure and screamed. The “Cuban Crisis” was not merely a catchy
title for a minor diplomatic fray. But rather, for the first time in two decades, nations experienced an immediate fear
of worldwide annihilation in a war that would have begun and ended with the pressing of a button. Out of
the war scare erupted a surge of nationalism in the U. S. The new spirit made strange bedfellows. As the
war-machine patrolled the beaches of Key West, Democrats and Republicans alike fed fuel to the idling motor. Now that we
can sit back and loosen our black ties, remove our Spiffies and unlace our combat boots, perhaps the time is
ripe for an examination of our conduct while the national finger was on the button.

True patriotism is exemplified by the actions of those who fight for the principles embodied in the U. S. Constitution.
For it is a set of national principles which provide for and allow dissent. There were many people who disagreed
with JFK’s handling of the Cuban situation, but were they any less patriotic? It is the right of every citizen
to peacefully protest the actions of the federal government. To deny this right must be construed as an unpatriotic act.
Nowhere does the Constitution state that citizens must follow unquestioningly the principles of the federal government. Belief in basic doctrines
is not an acceptance of practical interpretations of them.

Many of Davidson’s Richardson Scholars are from countries where communists and other leftist groups hold substantial representation in the central
government. On several occasions these students expressed their personal views concerning U. S. policy in Latin America and were unnecessarily
humiliated in return for their honest candidness. Such labels as “communist” and “anti-American” smack of Birchism and have no place
in an academic community. If we deny inalienable rights such as freedom of public assembly or freedom of speech, we
are presupposing that Man is unable to differentiate between right and wrong. We are making unilateral decisions which affect others,
yet we are denying them an equal voice in deciding their destiny. Can we be so naive as to believe
that all the good guys wear white hats and all the outlaws, black ones? Surely an objective examination will not
show that good and evil have reached a stage of telophase, separating completely, and isolating themselves on opposite sides of
the world.

The Communist Party, U. S. has offered to send speakers to Davidson. The administration has said “this wouldn't be wise.”
Are our thought processes such that we would be pushed across to the left arm of the balance? Without consideration
of the actual issues we condemn dissenters, merely because their ideas do not coincide with the will of the majority.
As soon as we stop thinking, we lose any leadership abilities we may have had previously. We become blind followers
whose main object in life is to stand fast in the security provided by the crowd around us. Wolves run
in packs. Bees live in swarms. There can only be one leader, for as soon as a new queen bee
is born she is killed to prevent dissension in the hive. Freedom to dissent implies freedom of choice, and in
this ability of Man to choose, select and sort out, lies his inherent supremacy. To respect this freedom is to
recognize the true worth of democracy, and such an espousal to the ideals of democracy is patriotism in the broad
sense.

B.R.

Staff

Associate Editor: Knox Abernethy
Editorial Assistant: Jim Williams
Assistant Editor: Bill Ruth
Managing Editors: David Stitt, Jeff Wampler
Sports Editor: Bill Pridgen
Assignments Editor: Charles Ramberg
Feature Editor: Greg Govan
News Editor: Charles Dibble
Assistant News Editor: Jimmy Downey
Photographers: Joe McCutchen, Buck Lawrimore, Dan Adams, Joe Howell, Walter MacDonald
Advertising Manager: Charlie Smith
Circulation Manager: Malcolm Lane
Assistant Bus. Manager: Rick Finch
Cartoonists:

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

“Better Remove The Sign, Too”

By Adams

Freedom Of Collegiate Press Discussed At ACP Conference

BY DAVE STITT
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The topic that dominated conversation at the Associated Collegiate Press Conference two weeks ago was the recent decision of the
president of the University of Colorado to fire the editor of the school’s newspaper. The conference, which was held in
Detroit, was highlighted by two open panel discussions on the “Freedom of the College Press,” each of which dealt with
the incident at Colorado and other similar cases. The rather unwise action by the editor of the University of Colorado
newspaper that led to his being fired was his allowing an article to be published which called Senator Barry Goldwater
(in context) a “murderer and a mountebank.” The article contained similar sentiments about former President Eisenhower. The article naturally raised
a great deal of controversy, and the university’s president decided to fire the editor for allowing what he called “libelous
accusations” to be printed. This action came despite the fact that the publications board, student

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

McCutchen: “True Worship Depends Upon Individual”

Dear Editor:

While the present criticism of required chapel and vespers is welcome in that it shows a genuine desire for a
relevant religion by Davidson students, THE DAVIDSONIAN editorials have failed to consider two important aspects of the situation. First, definite
action has been taken to improve the effectiveness of Thursday chapel. Before the first editorial in the current series on
religion at Davidson had been published, the Religious Life Committee of the YMCA had made specific plans for changes in
this service which will be evident before the end of this semester, negating retroactively the validity of the dubious cry
that no organization on campus has acted. Second, better speakers and more attractive orders of service, as advocated by THE
DAVIDSONIAN, will do little good unless the individual students make a sincere effort to derive personal meaning from the services,
meaning which can be found even in the present Thursday chapel if the individual really desires to find it and
seeks it. This meaning or relevance is not something which the Davidson student has a right to expect the college
to produce for him as a matter of course. By all means, constructive changes should be made in the externals
of these services, for better programs will be more relevant and their relevance will be more easily seen. But whether
or not there will be true worship at Davidson depends essentially on the attitudeof those worshipping. Joe McCutchen Glasgow

Dear Editor: “My soul cries out to Thee, oh Lord.” These deeply felt words began the prayer in last Thursday’s
chapel by Dr. Dan Rhodes. They stuck in my mind; and as I repeated them—though it may have been merely
my imagination—it seemed that every student was whispering these words to himself, too. “Two good chapels in a row... I
can't believe it,” I thought. “Dr. Workman last week and now Dr. Rhodes.” But these were more than just good
chapels to be shaken off as we left Chambers auditorium; both communicated something to me about why we are here.
Dr. Workman, two weeks ago, said that a professor's purpose wasn’t to tell us students what to think, but rather
to try to tell us what he himself thinks. It’s up to the student to think out for himself what
he can believe and what he can’t. It occurred to me both times that Dr. Workman and Dr. Rhodes were
expressing themselves sincerely, throwing out their ideas for me to grapple with. Neither was telling me anything I should think.
Then the essence of education must be to think about what we've heard and seen, and then to be able
to decide what we think ourselves. What education is not is indoctrination of what we should think—especially in religion, of
what we should believe, as good.... Sam Glasgow

PRANUTS council, faculty council on student affairs, university board of regents, and the Colorado state legislature had all refused to
censor the editor’s action. Two well-meaning girls at the ACP conference typed up a petition demanding that the Colorado school
president either reinstate the editor or take the libel charges to court, and 30 to 40 sympathetic newspaper editors signed
it. But then somebody happened to ask some of the Colorado delegation to the conference if they wanted the editor
back, and as the answer was a unanimous negative, the whole idea was dropped. Apparently the Colorado student body didn't
want him back either, because last week a student council referendum asking for reinstatement of the editor was voted down
two to one by the students. However, many other conference delegates brought up cases of suppression of their own college
newspapers by administrations. Two newspapers had been suppressed entirely and told to shut down operation, and others were censored weekly
by their dean of students. The Davidson delegation found much to be thankful for, as time after time editors of
newspapers in small Southern schools, especially church-related ones, stood up to relate incidents where college administrations had interfered with and
suppressed their publications. Often expulsion from school was the penalty for printing an article favoring integration or criticizing the school’s
policies. Classes at the conference were led by student delegates, and included courses on yearbook and magazine publication, a basic
newspaper course, and a series of talks for business managers.

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten,
double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with
the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should not be received later than 6 p.m.
Wednesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 216, Davidson, N.C.

Carrell: Distorts BY DANNY CARRELL Student Body President

Although I am a firm believer in editorial freedom, I also believe that editorials and news articles should be accurate
when dealing with fact rather than opinion. An article and two editorials in past issues of THE DAVIDSONIAN have been
distorted enough to convey the wrong impression to the readers. In THE DAVIDSONIAN of Oct. 19th, a story was headlined,
“Council Quietly Joins NSA Confederation.” This article reported that the Student Council had voted to become permanently affiliated with the
NSA. In the next issue, an editorial criticized the Council for having “backed into” the National Student Association. At its
meeting on Oct. 15th, the Student Council neither joined the NSA nor did it vote in favor of permanent affiliation.
It became a member of NSA in the spring of 1961. This year it merely approved the payment of the
30 dollars dues for the ‘62-63 year. In effect, it voted to retain membership. Membership is not permanent because any
future Council has the right to disapprove of paying the annual dues in order to terminate membership. I cannot see
why the Council was accused of “backing into” the NSA. It has been a member for over a year, and
Council representatives have had ample time to take a close look at the organization. Last August, John Spratt and I
both took ten days from a busy summer to attend the National Student Congress. We decided that it was definitely
to Davidson's advantage to retain membership in the National Student Association. The fact that there was little discussion on the
matter shows that the Council members were unanimously willing to accept the recommendations offered to them. It is true that
little has been said to the student body about NSA. We have remained silent because we have been waiting to
hear from the National Office on actions taken by the Post-Congress National Executive Committee. We are expecting such information within
the next two weeks. Therefore, next week’s DAVIDSONIAN will carry the first of a lengthy series of articles on the
National Student Association. During the second semester, there will probably be one or two assembly programs connected with the NSA.
We also plan to utilize one bulletin board, publicize NSA projects and conferences, and make available to the students publications
which we receive as a result of being on the NSA mailing list. I also want to clarify last week's
editorial concerning the drinking rule. The Student Council considers the after-dance parties as being under the jurisdiction of the off-campus
drinking rule. Presently, the faculty is not enforcing the rule because the College is not financially sponsoring these parties. Interpretation
of the rule is subject to change, however. The point I wish to make is that the Council is not
considering an isolated case of off-campus drinking, but is concerned with the entire question of off-campus drinking. Our first step
will be to discuss the matter with the Faculty Committee on Social Life in order to hear the faculty’s point
of view and to present the students’ point of view.

(Editor’s Note: 1. While this year’s membership in NSA is not “permanent,” last year’s membership was passive and was repeatedly
acknowledged as only a “trial membership.” 2. Little discussion indeed means acceptance. But, on the whole, was it enlightened or
ignorant acceptance? Can passive acceptance turn into active existence? Let's hope so.)

Brecht Entertains With Instruction BY DUDLEY SALLEY Davidsonian Staff Writer

The term Verfremdung, as chic a Teutonic neologism today among critics and pseudo-liberal artists as Geworfenheit once was, is more
widely known than any other of Bertolt Brecht’s inventions, excluding the song “Mac the Knife;” and it has confused countless
readers who have never heard of Brecht, much less seen any of his plays. The term refers to critical detachment
of the audience. This detachment is lost so long as spectators identify themselves with the characters on stage, as in
the conventional theatre of illusion, which he described as having sunk to the level of “a branch of the bourgeois
drug traffic.” Such an identifying audience may leave the theatre entertained through an emotional catharsis, but it will have remained
uninstructed and unimproved. The entertainment offered by Brecht’s theatre is rather the pleasure felt when we discover new truths, the
exhilaration experienced when we enlarge our understanding. It is the pleasure afforded that audience which forms even when attendance is
not required. And it is this same urge for knowledge, the most rational aspect of human endeavor, that Brecht shows
in Galileo to be merely another of man’s instincts, as deeply irrational as the instinct for procreation. The play is
mature Brecht. It is an epic of an unheroic hero, who as a person is unimportant—he does not even appear
in the last scenes. Galileo is no martyr. To indulge his sensual pleasure of discovery, he is prepared to commit
the meanest action; he recants his theories and establishes the tradition of the scientist’s subservience to the state. Galileo’s is
the original sin of modern science. The greatest of intellects, the personification of science itself, is ruined by his inability
to overcome the base, instinctive side of human nature. The atomic bomb as a social as well as a technical
phenomenon is the classical end product of his scientific accomplishment and his social failure. Brecht has used the figure of
Galileo to pose two questions of the Twentieth Century: the question of scientific progress and social morality, and the question
of how to employ acknowledged truth under a controlling power which sees this truth as a threat to its control.
Both questions coincide in the problem of moderate, acknowledged progress as against social revolution. The one without the other, Brecht
proposes, must bring society to its destruction. “Should you then, in time, discover all there is to be discovered,” says
Galileo, “your progress must then become a progress away from humanity. The gulf might even grow so wide that the
sound of your cheering at some new achievement would be echoed by a universal howl of horror.”

TRUCK ROUTE
