FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1962 PAGE THREE

HIGHLIGHTS and SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

A REVIEW OF SPORTS

With the baseball team’s two games with Geo Southern and The Southern Conference Track Meet being the only action left on the agenda for the 1961-62 sports year, the only thing left to do is to take a look at the season results. The overall record of all individual sports added together comes out to be 77-91, which is not a “good” record, but neither is it that bad considering the caliber of the schools with which we compete. An analysis of all team results will show that, except for two sports, the teams pretty well held their own.

FALL SPORTS WERE GOOD

In fact, during the fall and on into the winter, we were compiling at least a break-even record in all sports. The football team came out the victors in their last two contests to finish with a respectable 4-4 record, an improvement over the previous season’s 3-5 showing. The soccer team, while not being able to match the previous season record of 8-3, still came out on the winning side by taking six and dropping only four of their contests. The cross-country team, behind pace-setter Sterling Martin, rounded out the fall schedule with a 4-4 record.

At the start of the winter sports things began to look a little worse as the hoopsters dropped their first six in a row. They recovered in fine style, however, winning the next twelve, and finishing the season with a highly respectable 14-11 record. The swimming team wasn’t able to match the basketballers’ showing, but still was able to come out with a respectable four wins and seven losses. The wrestling team turned in the best won-lost record of all varsity sports, 7-3, and also took with it the state championship. In riflery, the sharpshooters almost evened out their showing for the year, finishing with a 21-22 record.

Disaster finally struck during the spring sports, however. An inexperienced golf team was able to collect only two wins and finished the season with a 2-16 record. Also, the highly rated baseball team was unable to fulfill predictions and so far has a 7-17 showing. Fogleman’s first year as tennis coach was able to produce a respectable 7-10 record, and track came through with an even better record, 3-3, the only spring sport able to break even. They also took a first in the Davidson Relays.

This year has not been without its better moments. One of the most outstanding performances of the year was the football team’s exciting last-second victory over William & Mary, which showed what kind of fighting unit the team had molded into during the latter part of the season. The fine season experienced by the wrestling team would certainly be listed among the highlights of the year, compiling their best seasonal record since 1935.

BASKETBALL BIGGEST HIGHLIGHT

However, even though there were many fine performances by different teams during the year, none could match the interest that the basketball team aroused among the students. As the basketballers rolled up victory after victory there was a true revival of spirit and team support that was a remarkable thing to watch. This was, then, the real highlight in sports here this past season. An aggressive coach and a freshman team that was one of the best in the South and probably the best in Davidson’s history point out that this is not the end either. A team that only won three games last year made a remarkable turnaround.

No analysis of the success or failure of a sports program should be complete without considering more than just the won-lost record, however. The benefits to the individual should be the main consideration.

LARGE NUMBER BENEFIT FROM PROGRAM

This is where the athletic program at Davidson achieves its greatest success. The number of scholarships given to boys who participate in sports means that more individuals, without outstanding abilities, can come out and compete with others on an equal basis. This means that more boys are able to receive the satisfaction and benefits from athletics than would otherwise be possible. Davidson should be proud of a program that enables more than 35 percent of its students to earn letters in one or more sports, and should make all efforts to expand this program in any way it can.

TEAM CAPTAINS ELECTED

Captains for next year’s teams have been elected in several sports. These sports are soccer, wrestling, swimming, and basketball. Next year’s baseball captain has also been voted for but Coach Stevens declined to release this information before the athletic banquet, at which time the winner will be announced.

Captain of next fall’s soccer squad is Charlie Sasser. Sasser, who plays left wing, is a Kappa Sig from Concord. Carter Mebane will be heading the ’Cat mermen next fall. Mebane, a Sigma Chi, swims the 220 and 440 yard freestyle events. In a meeting of the wrestling squad, Tom Wright was chosen to captain the matmen for the coming season. Wright wrestles in the 123 and 130 pound classes. Big Bill Jarman will captain the ’Cat basketballers during the next season. Jarman, high scorer and top rebounder last year, has a big job ahead of him as the basketballers will be taking on several really tough schools such as Princeton, Cincinnati, Wake Forest, and Duke.

FINAL I-F SOFTBALL RESULTS

Points
1.) PHI DELTS 160
2.) SAE 147
3.) KAPPA SIGS 125
4.) PHI GAMS 110
5.) ATO’S 101
6.) PIKAS 101
7.) SIGMA CHIS 90
8.) BETAS 85
9.) LAMBDA CHIS 80
10.) INDEPENDENTS 70
11.) SIGMA NUS 50
12.) KA’S 50
13.) SPE’S 50

DAVID GILMOUR, thinclad miler, will be journeying with the team to Norfolk, Va., this week to try his stamina against some rough Southern Conference runners.

Norfolk Hosts Thinclads For Conference Meet BY DENNIE PHILLIPS Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College track team journeyed Thursday to the Southern Conference track meet which will be held today and tomorrow at Norfolk, Virginia. The preliminaries in the 100, 220, 440, 880, shot put, discus, javelin, broad jump, and the hop-step-and-jump will be held Friday afternoon. The finals in these events, along with the pole vault, high jump, mile, 3-mile, and mile relay, will take place Saturday afternoon.

FURMAN STRONG

Davidson track coach Heath Whittle said the conference championship would be “a toss-up between Furman and The Citadel.” Furman is slightly favored since they have already beaten the Citadel in a dual meet this year. “In a big meet such as Conference,” stated Whittle, “your individual stars count more.” The Citadel is rated strong in the field events while Furman ranks highest in the running department.

Davidson will enter the following boys in the conference meet: in the 100 and 220, Ken Kelly and Bob Cordle; in the 440, Avery Burns and John Sharp; in the mile, David Gilmour; in the broad jump and hop-step-and-jump, John Chiles and Cordle; in the pole vault, Tom Day and Billy Mills; in the high jump, Keith Fraser; and on the mile relay team, Burns, Cordle, Kelly, and Sharp.

3-3 SEASON RECORD

The ‘Cats have had a good season this year, finishing with a 3-3 overall record, and also winning the fourth annual Davidson Relays. Cordle is the team’s high scorer this year. He runs the 100 and 220, is a member of the mile relay team, and broad jumps. Along with Cordle, the ‘Cat thinclads will be depending a lot on season standouts Andy Boggs, John Sharp, John Childs, and Keith Fraser, who recently set a new Davidson record for the high jump.

Whittle expects a better balanced team next year, hoping that rising sophomores such as Chester Davis, Dick Guerrant, Tommy Heffner, Ronnie Reese, Allan Turner, and Jim Wallace will add the needed depth.

BY FORREST ROLES Davidsonian Sports Writer

Tomorrow the ‘Cats baseball team plays its final game of the season in the second of a two-game series with Georgia Southern. The ‘Cats lost a previous two-game series at Statesboro 4-1 and 5-1 during their spring trip. Davidson garnered only nine hits against Georgia Southern in the earlier games. However, the ‘Cat pitchers allowed only ten hits, but were the victims of errors in key situations, since only four of the nine Georgia Southern runs were earned.

Last weekend the 'Cats went on their northern trip and won two out of three, defeating William and Mary twice, and losing to conference leader West Virginia. At West Virginia, the Mountaineers' leading pitcher, Joe Shaffer, baffled the ‘Cats, allowing onlyFour hits. The only inning in which he had any trouble was the third, when Tom Whitley singled, Tom Hamilton tripled, driving in Whitley, and scored as Harry Smith reached first on a throwing error. Smith stole second, was sacrificed to third, and scored on another error. But by scoring five times in the second, West Virginia rolled to an easy 9-3 victory. At Williamsburg, the ‘Cats swept a double-header, 8-5 and 10-7. The ‘Cats unleashed a 13-hit attack in the first game, led by third baseman Tom Whitley with two singles and a double and centerfielder Tom Hamilton with two singles and a two-run home run in the first inning.

Seventh Place Finish

BY BILL PRIDGEN
Davidsonian Sports Editor

Davidson's linksters took seventh place out of eight teams participating in the Southern Conference Golf Tournament at the Dunes Club in Myrtle Beach, S.C. Finishing with a 676 total for the two-day tournament, the Cat linksters were able to beat the team that finished last. For the second year in a row, top team honors went to VPI. Furman, VMI, and West Virginia rounded out the top four finishers.

Rozear Wins Award

In the final meeting of the rifle team this year, Marvin Rozear was awarded the annual individual incentive prize for keeping the highest average on the team during the past season. Rozear, in his last year on the team, held down a 278.3 average for the season and he was followed by junior Bill Blakley, who had a 275.7 average. The award was presented by Captain David Threlkeld, rifle team coach, in the presence of Col. Paul Wheaton. Assistant team coach Sgt. “Mac” McCurry was also present at the presentation. McCurry, in his last year as coach, will be leaving in June for a new assignment in Hawaii.

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Davidsonian Sports Writer

With a 7-6 victory over the SAE’s, the Phi Delts captured the IMAC Softball Tournament and assured themselves of first place in the IMAC overall standings for the sixth consecutive year. By winning this year, Phi Delta Theta retired the IMAC trophy for the second time in a row.

DELTS BEHIND, 5-4

Overcoming an early 5-4 deficit, the Phi Delt softballers scored 2 runs in the bottom of the fifth to go ahead 6-5. The SAE’s, however, came back with a run in the top of the sixth to tie the score at 6 apiece. In the lower half of the inning, Tony McNay, the SAE pitcher, retired the side in quick order. The top of the seventh found the SAE’s failing to score off the Phi’s ace Randy Austin, who had pitched outstanding ball throughout the entire tournament.

WINNING RUN IN SEVENTH

Leading off for the Delts in the bottom of the seventh, Nat Harris drew a walk. Bill Bankhead followed by banging out a single to move Harris into scoring position on second. Britt Smith, the next batter, made a sacrifice bunt, moving the runners to third and second. The next batter missed, but the ball passed through the legs of the SAE catcher John Starling, allowing Harris to easily score the game-winning run from third.

SAE’s DOWNED KAPPA SIGS

In a game played Monday, the SAE’s overpowered the Kappa Sigs 9-5. Costly errors proved to be the Sigs’ downfall as the SAE’s scored 5 unearned runs to take the victory and the right to play the Phi Delts in the finals of the tournament. The SAE’s had good hitting from McNay, Ivan Rohrer, and Joe Parker, the latter getting a timely 2-run single in the crucial contest. Jim Gaither, with a 3-run homer, paced the Sigs’ hitting attack. The winning pitcher was Tony McNay with Mac Henderson receiving credit for the defeat. Graham Showalter pitched well for the first four innings, allowing only two hits. He ran into trouble in the fifth when the Indians bunched three hits and two walks for four runs. Tom Hamilton, who went the distance at West Virginia, relieved Showalter and finished the game, giving up only one hit and an unearned run in the seventh.

In the second game, the ‘Cats exploded for their biggest inning of the year, scoring seven runs in the fourth inning. Tom Tuttle led off with a walk, Harry Cline and Ed Hines reached base on errors, with Tuttle scoring. Tom Whitley and Tom Harris walked to load the bases. Jerry Shelton walked to force in a run, Harry Smith flied out, scoring another, and Tom Hamilton's triple scored three more. Tuttle, who led off the inning, then doubled for the last run. Jerry Shelton, making his first start of the season, went the distance for the winners. He pitched well, despite the seven runs scored against him, only four of which were earned. After the fourth inning, he coasted on to victory, allowing seven hits, walking two, and striking out four.

At Conference Meet

BY BILL PRIDGEN
Davidsonian Sports Editor

At the Southern Conference Tennis Tournament held at Virginia Beach, the best that Davidson's netters could manage was a sixth place out of the nine teams participating. A strong George Washington team captured first place honors, amassing 20 points during the three-day tournament. The Citadel and Furman finished second and third by compiling 17 and 15 points respectively. The best performances turned in by the Cat netters were those by Bobby Snead, playing number two, and Stephan Young, playing number four, in the singles division, and by Bill Backlund and Gene McCutchen in the number three doubles. Both Snead and Young reached the semi-finals in their divisions, and the Backlund-McCutchen team didn’t lose until the finals. Matches were played on two courts at the Cavalier Hotel at Virginia Beach, and four courts at the Princess Anne Country Club. Four seniors finished their college tennis careers at the tournament. They are Andy Sherrill, Bobby Snead, Stephan Young, and Bobby Hartness. Also, Herk Sims, veteran of three years as manager, will be graduating.

TENNIS WORKSHOP

Fogleman announced plans to hold a tennis workshop here on June 8 and 9. This workshop, the first of its kind around here, will be sponsored by the athletic department in conjunction with the North Carolina State Tennis Association. The purpose of the program is to bring in high school coaches and recreation directors to show them the best ways to instruct tennis.

SALE SUMMER MERCHANDISE NOW IN PROGRESS AND THROUGH GRADUATION AT Bush Wilson, Ltd. DAVIDSON, N.C.

1318 W. Morehead

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN Charlotte, N.C.

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Order your subscription now so that you may receive all next year’s DAVIDSONIANs beginning with the first issue next September. Don’t miss important campus news.

Enclose Three Dollars — Bill Me Later

The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N.C.