PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1962

Burley Hampton Polley Bryan Kuykendall Reid Causey Lester Richey Cole Lindsey Sailstad Frye McGill Theis Gallent Maloney Thompson Goodykoontz Mebane
H. E. White Ghigo Pinkerton Winkler

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Fraternities Elect Officers For 1962-63

CURTIS HARPER, new pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is caught in a pensive mood. The minister, a Davidson
alumnus, assumed his duties here last month. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

Curtis Harper Notes Change And Hopes

BY JOHN MOREFIELD Davidsonian Feature Writer

Mr. Curtis Harper is a small, youngish man, a neat and conservative dresser, with sincere eyes and voice, and, incidentally,
the new minister of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Harper is at present in the process of adjusting to a
new sort of experience for him, that of being pastor of a church which is, ostensibly, very closely related to
a college. “It's entirely different from anything I've done. It's all new to me.”

Harper is a Davidson man, class of '50. From Davidson, he went on to Union Seminary in Richmond. For a
time, he was a Navy chaplain in the Philippines, with the responsibility of conducting five services a day for sailors
and Marines, in a variety of structures from jungle tents to abandoned Roman Catholic churches.

Asked if he found any appreciable religious consciousness in servicemen at large, Harper replied, quite frankly, “Not much. Of course,
I met in the service some of the most exemplary Christian men I’ve ever met, and some of the most
devoted. But generally the men are not too much interested in religion.”

Harper is married; his wife, Betty Jo, he met in high school at their hometown of Lynchburg, Virginia. They have
no children. At Davidson, Mr. Harper played football. “At least till I got hurt,” he adds, with a smile. He
is still nominally interested in sports. He finds a little time for golf, and “I swim up in the gym
for about fifteen minutes a day, just for the exercise.”

Has Davidson changed appreciably since he was here? “Yes. I find a more cosmopolitan, critical spirit now. Students certainly question
more, because they are generally of higher quality and intelligence now, due to more rigid entrance requirements.” He sipped an
icy coke for a moment, then added reflectively, “Of course, responsibility has increased at the same time. And this is
good.”

When asked about the responsibilities he faced as pastor of a “combination” town and college church, Mr. Harper replied in
positive terms. “I feel committed greatly to the pastoral ministry. I mean by this that I intend to fulfill the
pastor's duties of visiting the sick and the poor to as great an extent as I am able. I also
hope for a good relationship with the students.”

As the informal interview drew to a close, Mr. Harper added with sincerity, “I have a hope that in this
congregation we can transcend the bounds between town and college, between the various natural groupings in the community—townspeople, faculty, students—in
some sort of meaningful relationship.” One would hope that he succeeds.

THE NEW SOCIAL DISEASES OVERKILL EUPHORIA and NUCLEAR PROSTRATUS EXTREMIS Either one will satisfy your Secret Death Wish!

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

ALPHA TAU OMEGA
Pres. — Steve Butler
Vice Pres. — Chuck Mitchell
Treasurer — Tom Ross
Sec. — Spud Stewart

BETA THETA PI
Pres. — Jamie Long
Vice Pres. — Mike Owen
Treas. — Buddy Kemp
Sec. — Ed Stopher

KAPPA ALPHA
Pres. — Gene Wells
Vice Pres. — Duke Bumgardner
Recording Sec. — Wallace Boyd
Corresponding Sec. — Guy Byrd

KAPPA SIGMA
Pres. — Lawrence Kimbrough
Vice Pres. — Bob Cordle
Treas. — Tommy Whitley
Sec. — John Jernigan

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Pres. — Angus Baker
Vice Pres. — Cam Davis
Sec. — Jim Grey
Treas. — R. O. Moss

PI KAPPA PHI
Pres. — Bill Clingman
Treas. — Bob Reynolds
Sec. — Bobby Waites
Warden — Jim Young

PHI DELTA THETA
Pres. — Alex Gibbs
Vice Pres. — Stewart White
Sec. — L. H. Hutchens
Treas. — Walter Eckman

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Pres. — Lewis Martin
Treas. — John Dobbins
Sec. — Jim Perry
Sec. — Bob Morrison

SIGMA CHI
Pres. — Bud Robinson
Vice Pres. — Danny Carrell
Treas. — Bob Ivey
Sec. — Dick Nickel

SIGMA NU
Pres. — John Oehler
Vice Pres. — Jon Miller
Treas. — Sam Childress
Marshall — George Oehler

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Pres. — Bernard Swope
Vice Pres. — Bob Pierce
Treas. — Gordon Mitchell
Sec. — Clarence Styron

Faculty Grants Court (Continued From Page One)

the Court at a later date under a different set of circumstances; and (2) that the resolution does not show
a tendency to slacken the punishment for honor offenders. Burts said, “Three years ago, there was no expectation of readmission
to Davidson after dismissal for an honor offense. The offender simply went the other way and kept on going. Some
of the faculty are concerned that this may progress, the penalties becoming increasingly lighter. As of now, the faculty hopes
that this is not just one in a series.”

HUMANITIES

If the new Humanities course, which begins next year is elected by a student, it must be begun in the
Freshman year and be continued through the Sophomore year. It is an interdisciplinary course which enables a student to fulfill
in two years the following requirements for graduation: six hours in history, the entire requirement; nine hours of the required
twelve in English; and nine hours of the twelve required in Bible and religion. Instruction will be by general lectures
to the entire group of students, frequent discussion sessions in small groups, and individual conferences with instructors. Stress will be
laid upon effective communication in oral and written English; a number of written reports and papers will be required.

STAFF NAMED

The teaching staff for the first year of the course consists of a team of six representatives of the disciplines
interrelated in the course; Professors Rhodes and Polley (Bible and Religion), Professor Labban (Classics), Professor Cole (English), Professor McGeachy (History),
and Professor Abernethy (Philosophy). Enrollment for the year 1962-1963 will be limited to 100 freshmen.

The Proper Place for that Saturday Night Meal and After-Date Snack

Big Boy’s of the South

Fresh Strawberry Pie! Slim Jims! Big Boys! E. Morehead in Charlotte

Authors Featured At Fine Arts Fete

Two authors of first works will be featured next week as the 15th annual Fine Arts Festival continues. There will
be a talk by novelist Guy Owen in Thursday chapel, and a poetry reading by X. J. Kennedy at 8:15
Thursday evening in Hodson Hall. Owen, author of Season of Fear, will be on the Davidson campus from Tuesday through
Thursday. After his talk Thursday morning on “The Beginning Writer”, he will present the Jereen Bell Award, annual student prize
for creative writing. Owen, formerly a teacher at Davidson, is on leave from Stetson University. An outgrowth of his teaching
is the poetry magazine, Impetus, which he founded five years ago, primarily as an outlet for his students’ work.

Kennedy, whose poetry has been published in a number of magazines, such as The New Yorker, Paris Review, Poetry, and
the Hudson Review, has taught at the University of Michigan since 1956. He recently helped translate and stage Alfred Jarry’s
symbolic farce, “Ubu Roi”, in which he acted the title role.

GUY OWEN

Kennedy’s first book of poetry, “Nude Descending a Staircase,” published last fall, deals with growing up, children, love unrequited, etc.
Students are invited to meet Owen and Kennedy at a coffee hour Thursday evening following the poetry reading.Poetry reading. Prof.
Grier Williams, trumpet, Prof. David Richey, piano; and his wife, Elaine Richey, violin, will perform in recital at 8:15 Tuesday
night, April 24, in Hodson Hall. The Richeys will play “Introduction and Rondo” for violin and piano, a composition of
Mr. Richey. Richey will play “Three Pieces for Piano,” written by Davidson senior Bill Pruitt. Williams will perform the classical
selection, “Concerto for Trumpet” by Johann Hummel, contemporary selections by Goedicke, Enesco, Barat, and a modern blues sonata by Jean
Hubeau.

Experimental Films Prove New Emotion Experience
BY BILL TROTTER
Davidsonian Fine Arts Critic

Men in sweatshirts sitting around a beer-laden table, scratching, sweating, picking their teeth—you can almost smell them; they are playing
poker with outsized and ridiculous cards—in an instant they are snarling and fighting, jerkily, savagely, while the overhead light swings
and reveals their animal tearing and gouging in shafts of haphazard light... This is the scene from the powerful and
beautifully composed film, Texture of Decay, one of the experimental films brought to the college this month as part of
the Fine Films Festival.

Creative efforts as diverse as these may not be lumped together in a body by a reviewer. But several things
stand out about the films as a whole. They are art, as valid and as legitimate as any other art.
They knock the viewer off base, force him to feel as much as see images which may repel, thrill, frighten,
mystify. A program of them, especially one as well chosen as the current one, becomes a real experience in emotion.
Visually they have an almost stunning impact. Beyond generalizations like these, the individual films must speak for themselves.

IMAGES USED
The first film, Begone Dull Care, utilized images painted directly onto the film itself, and somehow synchronized with fantastic precision
to a jazz soundtrack. This blend of music and film is nothing new; Walt Disney and Stokowski did it to
Bach in Fantasia, but the effects of the style seem infinite. It was like being caught in a Jackson Pollock
painting, or suddenly waking into a world like a third grader’s tempera splashes—where color and blocks of images take the
place of reality. Lines and vaporous points shift and heave to frisky music. The title is appropriate, for the film
has a feeling of wit and zany joy which infects the viewer.

WASTED FILM
A good example of wasted film was the next item, Psyche, a hodgepodge of abstruse classical and modern sets and
moods, telling nothing, showing almost nothing. The people were alternately ugly and too sharply beautiful; the woman in the “title
role” was rather monolithic-looking and seemed embarrassed to be where she was. Even worse was the crude and naive Mechanics
of Love, where coitus was represented by such uplifting symbols as a cactus, a dripping faucet, a madly stitching sewing
machine, and a flaming stove. If it hadn’t been so laughable, it would have been offensive—not to the viewer’s morals,
but to his mentality.

WEIRD FILMS
Far superior was the exquisite Virapuru which captured the dark and racial feeling of primitive man in the vast forest.
The story is a Brazilian legend set to somewhat labored music in a Villa Lobos tone poem, which was played
as a soundtrack. The composer would have been proud. The wonderful, unaffected Indian characters were superb, the photography and special
effects were a visual banquet of lush color and feeling. But the high mark of the showings was the stark
and terrifying Texture of Decay, a surrealist pastiche of nightmare images, sharply and energetically filmed, which leaves the viewer in
a tense identification with the character who goes through it all. This film showed a truly sensitive and shrewd imagination,
a loving hand at the splicing table, and a craftsman’s skill behind the camera. The soundtrack—nasty pig grunts, metallic gratings,
electric tones—was fitted with telling effect into the shifting dreamlike episodes. The people responsible for bringing these films deserve a
great deal of credit, for they are something unique in modern art, and something well worth seeing. This reviewer does
not recall any single evening’s experience quite like them.

Communism In Cuba Threatens Americas
BY TONY DIAZ
Special Staff Writer

Through the eyes of a Cuban exile, we looked at Communism last Tuesday night. Cuba was one of the wealthiest
countries in Latin America before Castro took over. It had one of the highest standards of living, not only in
Spanish America but also in the Western world. Cuba had a strong middle class. The working class was purposefully bred
against Communism. The Cuban “intellectuals,” bred at Harvard, M.I.T., University of Miami, and University of Havana, and the Castro thugs
and other communist gangsters trained in terrorism in Russia, with the blessing of the New York Times, made the Cuban
Revolution. Cuba needed some reforms but certainly not the revolution that has degraded and destroyed her. The enlightened “Liberals” pontificated
about poverty, unemployment, lack of food, poor clothing, etc., making Batista’s Cuba a rich soil for Communism.

The wealthier the country, the better chance for a republican form of government. This absurdity is the impact of the
Communist Manifesto on the Western mind. Communists are winning the world by winning ideologically. Americans try to combat ideas by
material means. Freedom will not triumph with material help. Man needs a religion, a faith, an ideal to fight for.
Communism offers that. Communists never miss a chance to use a disparity of conditions for propaganda purposes around the world,
and this was the case especially in Cuba. They would broadcast claims that the United States is a “parasite living
on the rest of the world.” After witnessing the Cuban tragedy, Americans should make a point of allowing their foreign
friends to see not only the side that makes rich propaganda for communistic lies.

We know how active the Communists are at this moment, seeking to widen the gap between the United States and
Latin America. The Communist drive to dominate Latin America is a full-fledged offensive based in Cuba. It's a do-or-die campaign
to take over every Latin American country. Should we not do as much, if not more, than the Communists? Let
us not neglect any source of reasonable approach, for surely the best antidote for these troublesome times is ways and
means for a better understanding of each other’s way of life. This is the cement that will bind us closer
together; not only in South America, but also throughout the whole world.

ALUMNI SERVING U. S. AND GOVERNMENT IN INDUSTRY

Applications for FALL SEMESTER 1962 NOW BEING PROCESSED
Registration—September 5, 1962

Career Opportunities Abroad are plentiful for American college graduates with a solid undergraduate background and 2 postgraduate semesters of specialized
training in the practical aspects of international commerce. 1,500 U. S. International Companies have employed graduates of The American Institute
for Foreign Trade. They turn to AIFT whenever they need qualified personnel for overseas positions at the junior executive level.

Dedication to a Career Abroad, Rigorous Pre-screening, and Professional Career-counseling have combined to make the Institute's placement record one of
the best in the U. S. (although job placement is not guaranteed). For catalogue and information about postgraduate curriculum, entrance
requirements, overseas career opportunities, alumni achievements, please write:

The Registrar
The American Institute for Foreign Trade
Thunderbird Campus, P. O. Box 193
Phoenix, Arizona

THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN TRADE
This nation’s only postgraduate school exclusively devoted to the practical training of college graduates for careers abroad with U. S.
business or government

3-PART CURRICULUM IN TWO SEMESTERS LEADING TO THE 5TH-YEAR, FIRST PROFESSIONAL DEGREE: BACHELOR OF FOREIGN TRADE*

INTERNATIONAL COMMERCE: Financial and merchandising aspects of foreign trade are separated into distinct courses to ensure specialization in presentation, thoroughness
of coverage, and adjustment to individual students. Subject matter presented with concrete and practical—rather than abstract and theoretical—approach. Actual commercial
situations approximated and realistic data, instruments, and forms incorporated when feasible. Curriculum covers:
- Characteristics of world trade
- Export-import finance and procedure
- International marketing
- Advertising theory and salesmanship
- Accounting for management
- Principles of management
- International law of commerce.

AREA STUDIES: Courses present characteristics—geographical, ethnological, social, political, and economic—of world’s regional areas in whose markets the graduate may be
located. Emphasis on economic history and potentials of areas, and on business conditions and political situations. Student introduced to modes
of life, health conditions, social customs, religious beliefs, thought patterns, and motivations of peoples of various countries. Curriculum stresses 3
major areas:
- Latin America
- Far East
- Western Europe
- International Relations.

LANGUAGES: Intensive instruction in the spoken language of business and social life. Primary aim is to develop facility for first
understanding, then speaking, the language of the area in which student is interested. Later, increasing stress laid on reading and
writing. Conversation classes (maximum of 8 participants) conducted by native Latin American and European instructors. Curriculum:
- Beginning, Intermediate, and Advanced Spanish, Portuguese (for Brazil), and French
- Commercial Correspondence and Business Spanish; Technical Spanish
- Special Advanced Spanish
- Business Communications.

*Fully accredited by the University of Arizona
