THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1962

TOO BUSY TO WRITE HOME? SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN! (For a paltry $3.00)

Name
Street or Box No.
Town
State

This is a new subscription; a renewal.

The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N. C.

The Hub Replaces Hugo's With Napkins, Magazines
BY MIKE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Teresa To Perform For Artist Program

The appearance of Flor Peeters, Belgian organist and composer, on Friday, Oct. 5, will inaugurate the 1962-63 Davidson College Artist Series. Peeters’ performance, which will begin at 8:15 p.m. in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, will be followed by a reception in the church.

Teresa y Su Compania Espanola, the second attraction of the series, will present an evening of Spanish dancing on Friday, Oct. 12, in the auditorium of the Chambers Building at 8:15 p.m. Following the program, the group, now on its first tour of the United States, will be entertained at a reception in the Student Union.

On Tuesday, Oct. 23, the Cleveland Players, a professional touring theatre, will present Sean O’Casey’s play, I Knock at the Door. The performance will begin at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers auditorium and a reception will follow in the Student Union.

The appearance of Rolf Bjoerling on Friday, March 22, will conclude the 1962-63 Artist Series. Bjoerling, a tenor whose repertoire ranges from opera to art music, is currently on his first American tour. His performance will begin at 8:15 p.m. in the auditorium of Chambers Building and will be followed by a reception in the Student Union.

The Komitas String Quartet, Russia's foremost string quartet, will perform Friday, Feb. 1, in the auditorium of the Chambers Building at 8:15 p.m. Following the program, the group will be entertained at a reception in the Student Union.

Tickets for all performances will be on sale in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center.

Downtown Davidson will soon be graced by a new store, the Hub, designed to fill the gap left by the closing of Hugo’s. For quite a while both townspeople and college students have been noticing and wondering about all the activity in and around the old building next to Hood Norton’s Barber Shop. The most popular rumor stated that it was to be made into a new Tastee-Freeze store. This idea is partly correct, since the corporation that owns the Cornelius Tastee-Freeze is sponsoring the new business. But according to the two paint-spattered men busy renovating the shop, the Hub will be an effort to bring certain material benefits of civilization to Davidson.

An in-the-paint interview with the soon-to-be manager of the Hub, George Arkebauer, brought out several interesting facts, such as that he is a Yankee hoping to crack the rusticity of this small college town by attempting to furnish the Wildcats with everything but clothes. (Relax, Rush.)

George boasted of a long line of sandwich items on a grill, backed by everything from cards to LP albums and a 24-hour developing service. Coming into direct competition with several well-known enterprises, he added that the entire rear of the store would be devoted to paperbacks and magazines, while much of the shelf space in front would be filled with a wide variety of tobacco items. This five-cent and ten-dollar emporium will also cater to fraternity needs, including monogrammed matchbooks, napkins, and the like; it will also sell monogrammed napkins to anyone who would like to see his name on several hundred napkins. As a special sideline, students will also be able to order typewriters through the Hub. Perhaps a price war in the making? George made no comment, but he and his assistant seem anxious to succeed; and, after all, a little bit of competition is a dollar-saving thing.

PROF. ERICH WRUCK — leans forward as he relates tales of his childhood and early military action as an anti-aircraft gunner for the Nazis.

German Prof. Wruck Tells His Life History
BY BUCK LAWRIMORE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Young Erich Wruck stumbled from his bed to the scream of a nerve-jangling alarm. Rubbing the sleep from his eyes as the wet wind whipped his face, he groped through the night to his station and slowly pivoted the big anti-aircraft gun toward a B17 rumbling overhead. Stationed on a small island near Holland on a cold fall night in 1945, the boy was a Nazi gunner at 16 years of age. He remembered the days when he had soared in airplanes, and as the shells screamed upward, he couldn’t help wondering what the Americans in the big plane above were like.

In 1957 he was a Second Lieutenant in the U.S. Army and taught one of those airmen the details of electronics of a popular American guided missile. Today he teaches German at Davidson College. “I have led a rather unusual life,” he modestly noted as his blue German eyes twinkled and his full German face grinned.

“When I was 12½, I was forced to join a Nazi youth movement. I learned to fly a glider and found that the youth air corps was fairly removed from heavy party activities,” he related with an airy accent. “Then in 1944 I, like most high school students, was drafted and allowed to choose service in the Navy or Air Force. The only boys who escaped the draft were those with strong political pull or those unfit for military service. I was assigned to Naval anti-aircraft artillery,” he explained.

Wruck was assigned to a battery of big guns on a small island in the North Sea, where he shelled Allied planes overhead or ships that dared come too close. “I felt very strange,” he frowned. “I never shot at a human... I never saw death or even worried that I would be killed. I was doing something that I had to do, or be punished. There were many sorts of punishment,” he understated.

Dr. John Redhead Gives Vespers Talk

Dr. John A. Redhead, Jr., a trustee of the college presently serving as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, will deliver the vespers sermon this Sunday evening in the college church. The freshmen vespers in Hodson Hall will be addressed by Dr. L. H. Hollingsworth, chaplain of Wake Forest College.

After doing post-graduate work at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., Dr. Redhead was awarded an Honorary DD by Davidson College. A pastor in four different churches since 1930, Dr. Redhead has also served as Moderator of the North Carolina Synod, in addition to being a Protestant spokesman in the press, radio, and television.

Dr. Hollingsworth, college chaplain at Wake Forest since 1959, graduated from Wake Forest College and did his graduate studies at New Orleans Theological Seminary.

Scholars (Continued From Page One)

Upon his return home, he will enter the University of Oslo. Pi Kappa Phi will be host to both Sexholm and Nobutoku Tatsuta of Tokyo this year. Tatsuta is a graduate of Sophia University in Tokyo where he majored in English. In athletics, he is proficient in judo. Here, he will study economics.

Alexander Wustmann will be associated with Sigma Chi during his studies at Davidson. From Worms, Germany, Wustmann has studied economics at the University of Marburg. He looks forward to a career in business.

Chu Fun Cheung was born in Kwei-Yang, China, the son of a doctor. He has attended New Asia College, an institution receiving some support from Yale University. He was awarded a Richardson Scholarship for 1961-1962 but could not obtain a visa until this year. He is interested in studying mathematics and physics.

MUY BONITA TERESA — will present a program of Spanish dances on Homecoming weekend as the second attraction of the 1962-63 Davidson College Artist Series. The first performance in the series will be an organ recital by Flor Peeters, a Belgian organist and composer, on Friday, Oct. 5.

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf,” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

ANOTHER YEAR, ANOTHER DOLLAR

With today’s entry, I begin my ninth year of writing columns.Gout, et Service Excellent * * Club Internationale 6:00-10:00 P.M. Friday, Sept. 28th. $5.00 couple — By reservation only. Reservations available at the Union Desk. Little more than a year later he was discharged after Nazi surrender. He met his exiled family near Bremen, Germany, and went back to school to receive his “abitur,” a diploma which represented advancement into the second year of college. He attended what is now the Free University of Berlin, but had to leave to help his father in business, as he was the only son.

Wruck soon met Esther Schmidt, a New Jersey girl studying as a Fulbright scholar at Erlangen University nearby. Marriage followed and the newly-weds yearned to go to America to start their own life. By 1952 he had a job at a machine importing house in New York City. “Their unethical practices gave me a very bad first impression of Americans,” he added.

A naturalized citizen, he was drafted into the U.S. Army in 1953, serving in various missile and artillery units in the South. “Most of the time I taught various branches of electronics. I love to teach,” he smiled. “By chance, one of my sergeants had been in the B-17's that I had fired on. We compared records and verified our suspicions,” Wruck exclaimed.

Off to Rutgers went the ex-soldier in 1958. After a year he had a BA in German. He taught the language to pay his way through graduate school. “I knew I wanted to teach,” the German recalled, “but I disliked the average confusion and low standards of graduate students I met. I hoped to find a small undergraduate college where I could teach German.”

By chance one of his professors at Rutgers told him of Davidson. “Though I had a total of 14 other offers, I told them all ‘no’ immediately. I had found all I wanted,” he declared with obvious satisfaction. Having completed his coursework for a PhD in German, Wruck is now teaching here at a school he regards highly. “Davidson is first of all small but excellent. Its teachers are of very high caliber, who take a sincere interest in their students,” he opined. “This is very rare.”

“I was offered a comfortable salary for me and my family, and I was very happy to find that this is a Christian school.” Wruck, only 34, has three children: Eric, 6; Karin, 5; and Krista, 2.

Pledge Fraternities announced Wednesday evening that nine more freshmen have pledged fraternities since the formal pledging period last Saturday, bringing the total number of fraternity pledges to 191. Rogers noted that four of the pledges last weekend were sophomores, not freshmen as originally reported in THE DAVIDSONIAN. The new pledgings brought the total number pledged to just over 70 percent of the freshman class. Pledging ATO was Murray Smith. New pledge at the KA house was James Starrett. Bill Council pledged Phi Delt. The Pikas pledged two more boys, John Callender and Bill Shackleford. John Crawford pledged Pi Kapp. Pledging the highest number since the weekend were the Sig Eps, with three new boys — Wayne Cherry, Ken Kuykendall, and Randy Webb. IFC President Johnny Rogers highlighted this weekend will be the annual pledge parties of several fraternities.

Subscribe Now at Half Price. Distributed from BOSTON, CHICAGO. Clip this advertisement and return it with your check or money order to: The Christian Science Monitor, One Norway St., Boston 15, Mass. 1 Year $11 (6 mos. $5.50). This special offer available to college students, faculty members, and college libraries also eligible when subscribing themselves.

ADLER — THE CLEAN WHITE SOCK. He not only wears the clean white sock; he is “clean white sock.” It’s a kind of confidence that comes from knowing the right thing to do; even if he decides not to do it. His clean white socks are by Adler. His girl is by his side, every bit as “clean white sock” as he is. Naturally, they don’t always wear white socks, they just act like they do. People who really swing are wearing the Adler SC shrink controlled wool sock. $1.00. THE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO. ADLER'S swinging SC's available at Rush Wilson Ltd.

In your school newspaper for the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes. Nine years, I believe you will agree, is a long time. In fact, it took less time than nine years to dig the Suez Canal, and you know what a gigantic undertaking that was! To be sure, the work would have gone more rapidly had the shovel been invented at that time, but, as we all know, the shovel was not invented until 1946 by Walter R. Shovel of Cleveland, Ohio. Before Mr. Shovel’s discovery in 1946, all digging was done with sugar tongs—a method unquestionably dainty but hardly what one would call rapid. There were, naturally, many efforts made to speed up digging before Mr. Shovel’s breakthrough—notably an attempt in 1912 by the immortal Thomas Alva Edison to dig with the phonograph, but the only thing that happened was that he got his horn full of sand. This so depressed Mr. Edison that he fell into a fit of melancholy from which he did not emerge until two years later when his friend William Wordsworth, the eminent nature poet, cheered him up by imitating a duck for four and a half hours. But I digress.

For nine years, I say, I have been writing this column for the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, and for nine years they have been paying me money. You are shocked. You think that anyone who has tasted Marlboro’s unparalleled flavor, who has enjoyed Marlboro’s filter, who has reveled in Marlboro’s jolly red and white pack or box should be more than willing to write about Marlboro without a penny’s compensation. You are wrong. Compensation is the very foundation stone of the American Way of Life. Whether you love your work or hate it, our system absolutely requires that you be paid for it. For example, I have a friend named Rex Glebe, a veterinarian by profession, who simply adores to worm dogs. I mean you can call him up and say, “Hey, Rex, let’s go bowl a few lines,” or “Hey, Rex, let’s go flatten some pennies on the railroad tracks,” and he will always reply, “No, thanks. I better stay here in case somebody wants a dog wormed.” I mean there is not one thing in the whole world you can name that Rex likes better than worming a dog. But even so, Rex always sends a bill for worming your dog because in his wisdom he knows that to do otherwise would be to rend, possibly irreparably, the fabric of democracy.

It’s the same with me and Marlboro Cigarettes. I think Marlboro’s flavor represents the pinnacle of the tobacconist’s art. I think Marlboro’s filter represents the pinnacle of the filter-maker’s art. I think Marlboro’s pack and box represent the pinnacle of the packager’s art. I think Marlboro is a pleasure and a treasure, and I fairly burst with pride that I have been chosen to speak for Marlboro on your campus. All the same, I want my money every week. And the makers of Marlboro understand this full well. They don’t like it, but they understand it.

In the columns which follow this opening installment, I will turn the hot white light of truth on the pressing problems of campus life—the many and varied dilemmas which beset the undergraduate—burning questions like “Should Chaucer classrooms be converted to parking garages?” and “Should proctors be given a saliva test?” and “Should foreign exchange students be held for ransom?” And in these columns, while grappling with the crises that vex campus America, I will make occasional brief mention of Marlboro Cigarettes. If I do not, the makers will not give me any money.

© 1962 Max Shulman. The makers of Marlboro will bring you this uncensored, free-style column 26 times throughout the school year. During this period it is not unlikely that Old Max will step on some toes—principally ours—but we think it’s all in fun and we hope you will too.