FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1962 ~ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Five Records Topple

BY CHARLIE

Following the ’Cat trackmen, who amassed a total of 55½ points, were Washington and Lee with 44 and Lenoir Rhyne
with 21½. Catawba College picked up 18 points; Frederick, 17; Presbyterian, 14½; Elon, 13; Atlantic Christian, 5; and Campbell, 4.

Five meet records fell Saturday as well as one Davidson school record. Four of the five record-breakers were Wildcats, competing
in the high jump, broad jump, pole vault, and discus. With a leap of 22' 3½", John Chiles broke the
old broad jump standard of 21’ 10½" set in 1961 by Davidson’s Hugh Murphy.

Vaulting 12’ 2½", Bill Mills bettered the old pole-vault record of 12’ 1” set last year by Linton Wray.

In the discus, Andy Boggs tossed the disc 144’ 10” to better the old mark of 142’ 7½” set in
1961. Boggs also captured a first in the javelin with a throw of 183’ 4”.

In the day's most outstanding performance, Keith Fraser took the high jump with a jump of 6’ 3½". This jump
smashed both the existing Relay's record and the school record.

The other new mark set at the Relays was in the sprint medley relay by the W&L team, composed of
Pearson, Kell, Hickey, and Essex with a time of 3:37, bettering the old mark by more than 2 seconds.

Coach Heath Whittle, track mentor, was “well pleased” with the meet and his cindermen and stated, “This year’s Relays were
one of the nicest meets we have ever had.”

DICK SNYDER MAKES HOOVER ATHLETIC HISTORY

The topic of this headline and the article appearing below it is a 6’4” senior from North Canton, Ohio. He
attends North Canton’s Hoover High School and is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Snyder, also of North
Canton. Snyder, who weighs 192 pounds, has been the object of much attention lately. He has been sought after by
more than 60 colleges and universities because of his unusual athletic abilities. He quarterbacked Hoover’s football team for the past
two years, scoring more than 170 points in that time. On the basketball court, he has starred for the past
three years on the varsity squad, and as a pitcher on the baseball team, he holds an 11-1 record over
the past two seasons. On top of this, he has been able to maintain a 90+ average through the past
four years and is classed as “an athlete, a gentleman, and a scholar.” The reason that Dick is of interest
to us is that he has chosen Davidson over all the schools that were after him and has become the
first basketballer that Coach Lefty Driesell has signed for next year’s freshman squad. Congratulations, Lefty.

Neffers Finish Year With Appalachian

Tomorrow afternoon the Wildcat netters head for Virginia Beach to get set for the Southern Conference Tournament which will start
there on Monday and continue through Tuesday and Wednesday. Coach Fogleman said that they would be leaving early so that
he would be able to attend a meeting of tennis coaches on Sunday. The purpose of this meeting is to
hold the drawing for the sequence of matches. The coaches will also discuss conference problems and recommend sites for next
year's tournament.

TOURNAMENTS CAN BE FUN!

Southern Conference Tournaments for spring sports will be getting into full swing next week. Looking over the locations of these
tournaments, particularly tennis and golf, is enough to make one wish that he were out for these sports. The Tennis
Tournament will be held in Virginia Beach at the Cavalier Hotel on May 7, 8, 9. The Track Tournament will
be held at Norfolk, Va., on May 11 and 12. And the Golf Tournament will be played on the Dunes
Golf Club by the balmy shores of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina’s most famous resort on May 8 and 9. Whether
these places were selected deliberately or accidentally, the probable result will be a larger contingent will find themselves able to
make the tournament than usual. The idea of holding tournaments in resort areas seems like a good one. Notice to
coaches: The members of the sports staff are available to sign up as traveling reporters for the tournaments.

CREDIT DUE TO FOGLEMAN

We believe that much credit is due tennis coach Harry Fogleman. Although he finished with only a 7-10 record in
his first season coaching here, we believe many better things will be in store for our netmen. He has brought
much personal skill and ability into his position since he was recognized as one of the best coaches in the
country while at Cincinnati. Already his big name has had a lot to do with drawing two excellent high school
netmen here next year. These boys are Woody Cleveland, number one high school netter in South Carolina, and Dick Hurd,
who is tops in Montana.

Softball Finals On Monday

The championship softball game will be played Mon., May 7 at 4 p.m. The Phi Delts, by virtue of an
11-7 win over the Kappa Sigs Wednesday, will be one finalist in the tournament, while the other finalist will be
either the SAE’s or Kappa Sigs—to be decided in a game Friday.

OVERALL STANDINGS

Points
1. Beta Theta Pi 510
2. Phi Gamma Delta 503
3. Kappa Sigma 496
4. Sigma Alpha Epsilon 490
5. Kappa Alpha 460
6. Sigma Chi 444
7. Alpha Tau Omega 419

MONDAY GAMES

SAE’s defeated the Betas 18-10, Phi Delts defeated the Kappa Sigs 11-7, SAE’s defeated the ATO’s.

WEDNESDAY GAMES

The ‘Cat netters lost a hard-fought match to N.C. State here last Friday. The match score was 3-6 in favor
of the Wolfpack. Tackling Wake Forest and Guilford on successive days early this week, the ’Cats chalked up two victories
by identical scores, winning 7-2 on both occasions. At the Wake Forest match on Monday, Fogleman reported that a crowd
of two or three hundred people turned out to watch the match, “something you never see around here.”

APPALACHIAN WINS, 5-2

Thursday afternoon the ’Cat netters dropped their tenth match of the season at Boone, N.C. The netmen were hurt by5-4.

9. Independents 285 | the absence of three season regulars, Bobby Austell, Andy
10. Pi Kappa Phi 281 | Sherrill, and Stephan Young. SAE's defeated the Phi
11. Sigma Phi Epsilon 228 | Gams, 11-3.
12. Pi Kappa Alpha 227 | who were not able to make the trip.
13. Sigma Nu 166 |

THURSDAY GAME

At Thinelad Relays
SHAPPARD Davidsonien Sports Writer

The Wildcat thin-clads captured five out of seven field events, but failed to capture a first in a single relay
race in leading a field of nine teams in the Davidson Relays held on Richardson Field last Saturday.

“I was especially glad to see the Davidson boys do so well. This year’s Relays also saw more records fall
than previously. Also, Washington and Lee helped make the meet good by bringing down some real fine material.”

On May 11 and 12, the Wildcats travel to Norfolk, Virginia to the Southern Conference Meet, in hope of surprising
its conference opponents.

DAVIDSON RELAYS RESULTS

Davidson dominated the field events, winning 5 of 9. Frederick’s Wade took the shot put, and W&L's Kell won the
hop-step-jump. The Wildcats failed to garner a 1st in a single relay race, however.

Javelin — Boggs (D), Bolarsky (WL), Hampton (P). 183’ 4”.
Shot put — Wade (F), Kirk (P), Boggs (D) 45' 2½".
Broad jump — Chiles (D), Cordle (D), Sackett (WL) 22’ 3½".
High jump — Fraser (D), Kell (WL), Wray (D), Martin (Cat) 12’ 2½".
Discus — Boggs (D), Conley (Camp.), Wade (F), 144’ 10”.
Hop-step-jump — Kell (WL), Sackett (WL), Chiles (D) 43’ 1½".
Distance medley — Catawba, Presbyterian, WL, Elon, AC 11:00.9.
440 yd. relay — WL, LR, DC, F, Elon, Pres. 00:23.9.
Mile relay — LR, DC, Elon, Pres., AC 3:25.85.
Sprint medley — WL, LR, Cat., Elon, Pres. 3:37.0.
880 yd. relay — LR, WL, DC, Elon, F 1:32.1.
2 mi. relay — Cat., Pres., WL, Elon, AC, 8:27.0.

IMAC Elects Clark In Voting Wednesday

’Cats Capture Relay Crown

CLEARING THE BAR in a preliminary jump in the Davidson Relays is BILLY MILLS. Later in the afternoon, Mills went
on to set a new Relays record at 12’ 2½”. This was only one of five meet records which fell
during the busy afternoon. (Staff Photo by Kennedy)

’Cats Hope To Improve Against West Virginia, W & M
BY FORREST ROLES Davidsonien Sports Writer

This weekend Davidson's baseball squad meets West Virginia and William and Mary for a doubleheader at Williamsburg in an effort
to improve their 1-4 conference record. West Virginia, with a 6-1 record, is only ½ game behind conference leader Richmond.
The Mountaineers dumped Davidson here last year, 17-4.

Last week the ’Cats extended their win streak to three, defeating Belmont Abbey 16-6, before bowing twice to a previously
inept Citadel nine, 10-0 and 9-0 at Charleston. In the Abbey game, Davidson buried the Crusaders under a barrage of
twenty hits. Harry Cline continued his slugging, going four for five, and Ed Hines drove in four runs with a
bases-loaded triple and a solo inside-the-park home run. Jim Moore went the distance for the winners and added three singles
to the ’Cat attack.

At the Citadel, however, the ’Cats played only three innings of good baseball the whole afternoon. The team collapsed completely
after having several close plays called against them. They committed thirteen errors and garnered only seven hits in both games.
The baseballers had difficulty connecting with the ball in both games, and the Bulldog pitchers held the ’Cats to three
hits in each game.

The ’Cats finish the season here May 11 and 12 in final action against Georgia Southern.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

(Staff Photo by McCutchen)

STEPHAN YOUNG, playing the number four position for Davidson’s netmen, will be one of the ’Cat netter’s best prospects for
winning his position in the Southern Conference tourney.

BY BOYD SCOTT Davidsonien Sports Writer

The Intramural Athletic Council met Wednesday night to elect officers, to make plans for the remainder of the year, and
to lay the groundwork for next year. The meeting was the first for the new representatives.

Elected to offices for the coming year were Steve Clark, president; Keith Fraser, vice-president; and Mac Morris, secretary. The representatives
for the coming year are:

ATO — Paul Duvall
Beta — Steve Clark
KA — Rick Smyre
KS — Mac Morris
Pika — Keith Fraser
Pi Kap — Howard Kernodle
SAE — Tony McNay
SN — Arthur Clark
SPE — Ed Reynolds
SX — Jack Hollenbeck
Phi Delt — Nat Harris
Phi Gam — Butch Covington
Ind. — Al Mullen

Plans were made to change the time of the softball finals to 4 p.m. Monday afternoon, with another game Wednesday
afternoon, if necessary. Volleyball play will be finished up next week. The IMAC trophy will be awarded in chapel on
Monday, May 14. Plans for next year include the possibility of a volleyball tournament and a full softball season. Also
discussed were plans for tennis to be played in the fall with track.

Davidson Golf Team Meets UNC
BY FORREST ROLES Davidsonien Sports Writer

The Davidson golf team meets the duffers of North Carolina University at Morgantown for a single game this Friday afternoon.
They matched shots with the Presbyterian College golf team Thursday afternoon on the Country Club golf course in their last
regular season match of the year. All home matches begin at 1 p.m.

After the ’Cat golfers downed Oak Ridge in their season opener, they proceeded to lose their next ten matches. Coach
Tom Scott, who also serves as Davidson's Athletic Director, blamed the bad showing on inexperience. “We lost four good golfers
from last year's team,” said Scott, “including Verner Stanley, Southern Conference medalist.” There are two returning lettermen on this year’s
team — Haywood Evans and Frank McPhillips. Scott named these two plus Mims Rogers as the top three men on
the varsity golf team. They are all juniors.

“We try to get them good competition so they will improve,” explained Scott. Concerning a loss to N.C. State last
Monday, 24-3, Scott said, “They’re better than we are. But our scores have been improving all season.”

The freshmen golfers, although their record is worse than that of the varsity’s, have been playing much better golf. “They're
consistently down in the 70's,” said Scott. The ’Kittens have tied a match with Myers Park while dropping five other
matches by slim margins. Myers Park is the perennial state high school golf champion, and many Davidson golfers are ex-Myers
Park men. The freshmen will play Wake Forest this Friday afternoon at Winston-Salem.

Next Tuesday and Wednesday the varsity will play in the Southern Conference golf tournament at the Dunes Club in Myrtle
Beach, South Carolina. Each school is allowed to enter six men, with the four best scores added to get the
team score. The Citadel, Furman, William and Mary, and West Virginia are the top contenders for the conference championship.

HALL BETWEEN CLASSES... get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina
