SHAKE SLACKERS WITH CLUBS? (See Page Two) The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College RED HOT ‘CATS CLAW CRUSADERS (See Page Three) VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1962 DEAN RUSK, one of Davidson's more celebrated graduates, will abandon the international scene for a few days in February to return to his alma mater as the third Reynolds lecturer. Rusk Returns For Lectures BY BOB REYNOLDS Davidsonian Staff Writer Seniors Will Hear Branch, Nelson At Commencement Harlee Branch, Jr., president of Southern Company, and Dr. John Oliver Nelson of Yale, will be the speakers for the 1962 commencement exercises, President D. G. Martin announced to THE DAVIDSONIAN today. This year’s graduation program will cover two days, Saturday and Sunday, May 26-27. Dr. Nelson will preach the baccalaureate sermon Sunday morning in the college church and Branch will deliver the commencement address that afternoon. Branch, a graduate of Davidson, is a member of the Board of Trustees. His home is in Atlanta. His son Barry is presently a Davidson senior. “We are very pleased to have both men for commencement,” Secretary of State Dean Rusk, ’31, will be on the Martin stated. “We have been Davidson campus Feb. 21-22, as the third lecturer in the wanting to have Harlee Branch Reynolds series. Davidson is sponsoring this visit in conjunction with the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, to whom Mr. Rusk will speak Wednesday night, Feb. 21, at Charlotte's Park Center. The visit is intended, according to President Martin, as ‘a kind of homecoming to Mecklenburg” due to Rusk’s work and student life here. On Thursday, Feb. 22, Rusk will speak twice to students, at chapel and tentatively at 7:30 p.m. when he will deliver the Reynolds lecture. The topics of the talks have not yet been announced. The remainder of the day will be spent in talks with student and faculty groups and old friends. Any student groups interested should contact Dean Johnston. “Even before Rusk’s appointment, when he was president of the Rockefeller Foundation,” commented R. J. Sailstad, assistant to the president, “efforts were made to obtain him as a speaker. When the appointment was made, he still indicated interest in coming, but the time had to be suited to his heavy schedule. Rusk is a member of Davidson’s Board of Visitors. This is his second visit to the campus in recent years as a speaker, since he spoke to the student body some four years ago. Rusk, the son of a Presbyterian minister, worked two years in an Atlanta law office before coming to Davidson and entering upon a busy schedule of study, work, and extra-curricular activities. While earning his Phi Beta Kappa key and a Rhodes Scholarship, Rusk, better known as “Elijah,” put himself through school by working as a clerk in the local bank in the afternoons and by waiting tables at a boarding house. Other times found him presid- (Continued On Page Four) New Frontier Adds Davidson Graduate Another Davidson graduate has joined Dean Rusk in the ranks of the Kennedy New Frontiersmen. Walter L. Lingle, for a number of years, and Dr. Nelson has been a welcomed guest before.” Branch heads the largest electrical power company in the south. He is also a lawyer and serves on the executive committee of the trustees of Emory University. While at Davidson, he was editor of the newspaper. Dr. Nelson is a member of the faculty of the Yale Divinity School. He spoke in vespers this past fall. The Pittsburgh native is a graduate of Princeton University where he took an A.B. degree. His post-graduate work was done at McCormick Theological Seminary and Yale. The author of several books, he has served on numerous theological com HARLEE BRANCH, JR. mittees. Vagabonds’ Plan Next Production Looking forward to next semester, Prof. J. A. Sneden, director of the Vagabonds, reports that the group is optimistically making plans for their production of George Bernard Shaw’s Androcles and the Lion and also for the dramatic festivals which will follow. Androcles and the Lion, to be presented February 21, 22, and 23, will feature a “cast of thousands.” “We can use as many extras as we can get,” said Sneden, “Roman cohorts, Christian prisoners, and of course, the lion.” For those “thousands” interested, Sneden said that tryouts for the play will be held Mon., Jan. 29 at 8 p.m., and then again on Tuesday both after drill and also that night at 8. The Vagabonds plan to make their own costumes under the direction of Mr. Courtney Hill, a former Davidson graduate who designed costumes for the off-Broadway play Little Mary Sunshine and for the Charlotte Music Theater this summer. In the latter part of March, the Vagabonds will be hosts for the Carolina Dramatic Association district festival of one-act plays. Sneden plans to use as Davidson's entry a group of original plays written by Davidson students. In April, the Vagabonds will travel to Chapel Hill for the CDA state festival of one-act plays, and if time permits they will present another play on campus near the end of the semester. Fraternities Outline Greek Week Plans The third annual pledge banquet Monday, Jan. 29, at 6 p.m. will kick off activities for the 1962 edition of Greek Week. For the first time, a local speaker, Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, professor of history, will be featured at the banquet. REGULATIONS SAME Regulations for Greek Week, which will begin Monday and conclude Saturday, will be the same as last year. Curfews will be as follows: 9 p.m. Monday night, 10 p.m. Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday nights, 11 p.m. Friday and Saturday nights. All activities must cease by the curfew hour and no activities may begin before 1 in the afternoon. in Chambers auditorium. QUEEN’S SOCIAL Plans are underway to arrange a social affair at Queens Saturday at which the trophy for the outstanding pledge class will be given. The trophy will be given on the basis of Homecoming decorations, skit performance, and work project. Also to be considered are overall pledge class attitude, participation in extra-curricular activities, and scholastic average. Each fraternity will turn in a report which will be considered in the judging. The assorted films vary NUMBER THIRTEEN Faculty Approves Proposal For Liberalized Cut Policy Integration Poll Taken: BY TOM LOFLIN Davidsonian Staff Writer A revised cut system passed the faculty at an action-filled meeting last Tuesday afternoon. To go into effect next fall, the new system was proposed by a faculty committee headed by Prof. “Everyone seemed toHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

have his own ideas on different aspects of the new rules,” Dr. Martin said. But the regulations that were finally decided upon go far toward giving students here greater freedom than ever before.

VOTE ON INTEGRATION

The faculty also discussed another policy of significance to Davidson—the question of integration. A proposal had been made at the last faculty meeting by an interested group of professors that the question be voted upon at the meeting of Jan. 9. A vote was taken; however, Dr. Martin declined to comment on the outcome.

President Martin told DAVIDSONIAN interviewers, “If the Trustees were to see the results announced in the paper, they might think that the faculty is trying to dictate to them. The outcome of the vote will be announced to the Board of Trustees before any official statement is given for publishing. It is up to them alone to decide the official policy of the college on a matter of this type.”

President Martin also stressed that the outcome of the vote is merely the opinion of the faculty on whether or not Davidson should open its doors to students of all races, and that its results in no way indicate what action the trustees will take.

“ABSENCE” REGULATIONS

In a prepared statement given to the DAVIDSONIAN, the new cut regulations were discussed in full. Dr. Martin said that he preferred to call them “absence” regulations because, “Officially no more cuts will be given in classes.” The regulations, which go into effect next September, enable any student to cut up to 25 percent of the scheduled meetings of a class without loss of quality points. Any student who, for any reason, cuts more than 25 percent automatically fails the course, as has been the policy in the past. No special adjustments will be made for work missed because of absences, and all grade reports issued by the Registrar will list the number of absences in each course. Absences due to late registration will count against the 25 percent limit. The Executive Committee of the Faculty has been empowered to make decisions on any absences which the regulations do not cover.

STIPULATIONS ADDED

Several important stipulations concerning absences have been put into the new regulations, however. The most important for all students is the fact that each individual professor is authorized to impose his own attendance requirements on students. Another stipulation is that no absences will be allowed from any classes on the last two days before or the first two days after any holiday of more than one day. Any absences taken on these days would have to be excused by the Dean of Students. At present, Homecoming would be the only holiday for which the rule would not apply. Attendance will be required for the following: all academic exercises, if a student is on probation; all tests assigned in advance; and all semester examinations. No professor can give a make-up review or exam without an excuse from the Dean of Students, and the excuse will not be given unless the absence is because of circumstances beyond the student’s control.

UNAFFECTED AREAS

The new regulations do not apply to vespers, chapel, or physical education. The cut rules previously governing these exercises will remain in effect. The new rules allow the Professor of Military Science and Tactics to establish his own policy for ROTC drill. When asked if there would be any changes made in the rules covering cuts from drill, Col. Wheaten gave the answer in two words: “Status quo.”

To conclude the meeting, it was announced that the college has raised $700,000 toward the challenge grant made by the Richardson Foundation for faculty salaries. This means that the foundation will give Davidson $233,000, matching our every $3 with $1 of theirs.

Robinson Featured As Concert Soloist

Senior Joe Robinson will solo with the Charlotte Symphonette Mon., Jan. 29 at an 8 p.m. concert held at the Myers Park Elementary School. He will be playing Mozart's Oboe Quartet in F, his outstanding work for oboe solo. President of the Davidson Concert Band, Robinson has performed with the Charlotte, Winston-Salem, and Greenville symphony orchestras. He has been first oboeist with the symphonette group for the past 3½ years, and soloed with them once before in 1959.

Midwinters Concert Brings Highwaymen

Midwinters festivities will begin Friday night, Feb. 16, with an informal dance to the rock and roll music of Huey Smith and the Clowns. The IFC had planned to have Shirley and Lee, but because they couldn’t arrange enough dates in this area, they declined to come.

The Highwaymen, made popular by their Negro folk song “Michael,” will give a concert Saturday afternoon. These five honor seniors from Wesleyan University in Connecticut joined together their freshman year and now sing only folk music. They sing in four languages to the accompaniment of instruments including a “ten-string South American charango” made of an armadillo shell and a Nigerian talking drum. The group includes Wesleyan’s champion pole-vaulter and the campus radio station announcer. A Mexican garbageman taught one of them to play the guitar.

The price of the Midwinters entertainment will be about $4.50, $3 less than Homecoming was. In keeping with the tradition of the past, classes will be held on Saturday. But not everyone plans to follow tradition. Said IFC president Bob Waugh, “I’ll regret not being able to attend class, but Charlotte suits me better.” There will be no dance Saturday night.

Movie Committee Reveals Schedule

The Union Film Committee this week announced the schedule for the exam period and the tentative schedule for next semester. The committee also announced plans for an Experimental Film Festival tentatively scheduled for the second and third weeks in April. The Festival will consist of short films produced by independent filmmakers. These films are an extension into and expression of the feelings of the filmmakers themselves. The films range in length from four minutes to an hour and will be grouped into two segments of 1½ hours each. The films next semester will be complete with newsreels and previews. Popular cartoons, such as Road Runner and Droopy, will also be included.

FILM SCHEDULE

Wild River Jan. 15, 18
The Fugitive Kind Jan. 16, 19, 22
Separate Tables Jan. 17, 20
Jan. 29-Feb. 3 The Alamo
Feb. 7-10 Sanctuary
Feb. 14-17 The Truth
Feb. 28-March 3 World of Susie Wong
March 7-10 Guns of Navarone
March 14-17 The Apartment
March 21-24 The Cranes Are Flying
March 26-29 God's Little Acre/Thunder Road
April 4-7 Splendor in the Grass
April 11-13 Breathless
April 18-21 Magnificent 7

Also tentatively scheduled are Paris Blues, The Hustler, A Cold Wind in August, Breakfast at Tiffany’s, and Come September.

The recent snows brought on the release of usual pre-exam tension, but provided scenes of tranquil beauty as well. Andy Soags exercises his throwing arm in the accustomed, if not wholly approved, method. Placid Chambers lies under a snowy blanket. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Jay Ostwalt.