RUSK REQUESTS FREE TRADE (See Page Two) VOL. L

A Pinnacle Of Responsibility

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1962

Rusk Returns For Davidson's 'Finest Hour'
BY BOB REYNOLDS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

At 11 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 21, Secretary of State David Dean Rusk, ’31, and Mrs. Rusk stepped from their black limousine into the rainy mist hovering over the Davidson College campus. Thus quietly began a period which will rank among “Davidson’s finest hours.” The prominent alumnus, his wife, and diplomatic and security staffs were bringing the campus a new excitement and participation in government affairs, combined with a long-awaited homecoming.

As the third in the 1961-62 series of Reynolds Lecturers, Mr. Rusk throughout the day Thursday introduced overflowing crowds of students, faculty, and guests to a new level of awareness of foreign policy. In an off-the-record chapel talk and coffee Thursday morning and a more formal press conference and evening lecture, Mr. Rusk in frank, concise tones defined our current principles of foreign policy, presented the backgrounds to recent news stories, and gave his personal appraisal of the international situation.

For the students, the activities of the day were climaxed by the Reynolds Lecture. Here in an hour talk, the Secretary lifted his audience out of a maze of everyday events into a view of the future. “I am not pessimistic,” he said, “about finding a safer and more rational way for us all to live on this small planet... We should be prepared to work patiently—beginning now—towards the day when the community of independent nations and the United Nations itself become identical.”

But for Mr. Rusk, there were a series of climaxes and high spots all through the day as he alternated in the roles of Secretary of State, and just plain Dean “Elijah” Rusk, who walked the campus as a student and worked in Davidson as a bank employee 31 years ago. Bad weather which canceled his scheduled return flight to Washington last night gave the Secretary a few more hours to reminisce. His party left early today to “get back on the job.” Even for two days, however, Rusk was not able to forget his position. A mid-morning call to Washington Thursday emphasized the fact, as the Secretary had to keep his finger on the pulse of international affairs. Wednesday night, he had used his trip “home” to explain to a group of hostile businessmen the importance of the President’s new trade legislation before Congress (see excerpts of that speech on page two.)

‘Elijah’ Came Home To Visit

“DOWNTOWN HASN'T changed a bit,” Dean Rusk told a corps of photographers Thursday who followed him on a reminiscent tour of the town. From White Drug Company to Ralph Johnson’s Barber shop he walked the stretch of stores, stopping to greet familiar faces. And there were a number of them. After banging on the locked door of the Piedmont Bank, he showed awed tellers where he had worked three years as a bank employee. “Hello, Mr. Rusk. Want a haircut today?” he was greeted by Johnson who used to trim Rusk's hair when it was more abundant. The Secretary apologized for not having time to climb in the chair.

Bad Weather Fails To Dampen Warm Reception For Rusk

Republican Walter Judd Speaks At Convocation

Dr. Walter H. Judd, former medical missionary to China and present Republican representative from Minnesota’s 5th District, will speak in an extended chapel period Monday. The chapel period will be extended by taking five minutes from each class that day. Judd, a leading spokesman for conservatism, is one of an unusual number of political speakers to visit the campus this year.

Following the address, a short coffee hour will be held in the College Union. After lunch at the SAE house, Judd will leave from Charlotte for his next speaking engagement.

In 1925, under the Foreign Mission Board of the Congregational Church, Judd went as a medical missionary to bandit and malaria-infested South China. He survived the bandits and Communists, but repeated malaria attacks during the 6 years nearly killed him, and eventually forced his return to the United States.

ELECTED TO CONGRESS

After several months of speaking in churches and colleges warning about the menace of Communism and Japanese militarism, as both were expanding in China, he received a Fellowship in surgery in 1932 at the Mayo Clinic at Rochester, Minn. In 1934, he returned to Asia, this time to North China, where he superintended a large hospital for the next 4 years. After Pearl Harbor, many individuals and groups representing all segments of the community urged Judd to become a candidate for Congress from the Minnesota 5th District. He was elected in 1942 and has been re-elected every 2 years since.

PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE

Judd is now serving his tenth consecutive term as Congressman from Minnesota's 5th District. He is a nationally recognized authority on U.S. foreign policy and is a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs which has shaped our relief, recovery, rearmament, and economic development programs abroad. He served as a delegate to the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1957, and to the World Health Organization Assembly in 1950 and 1958. Having lived 10 years in China as a medical missionary, Judd is one of the few members of Congress with personal knowledge of the Far East.

Phillips Recommends IFC Reorganization
BY CHARLES DIBBLE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“A dynamic organization with dynamic leadership.” This is the desired result in the proposed reorganization of the IFC as seen by its proposer, Sigma Nu President Bob Phillips, who presented the idea to the group at its meeting Monday night. After extended discussion and questioning of Phillips, the IFC determined to delay action until a later date.

The proposed group would be composed of one regularly elected IFC representative from each fraternity plus the fraternity presidents. The Organization of Fraternity Presidents would be dissolved.

SIX COMMITTEES

Six committees would be formed: Social, Scholarship, Publicity, Housing, Rush, and Investigations. Phillips stated that his primary objective was a stronger organization, “one that can make and enforce rules.” Secondary would be the elimination of duplications that now occur from having both an OFP and an IFC.

Reactions to Phillips’ suggestion were varied. Some were opposed:
— “There are no major conflicts now. This seems to be change for the sake of change.”
— “You mention the desire for union. And then split the group into committees. This doesn’t make sense.”

SUPPORTED BY SOME

Others rallied to the support of the reorganization:
— “I like the idea. Students would assume more authority and responsibility.”
— “Two representatives from each fraternity: that’s good.”

The Social Committee would plan and arrange for dance and concert weekends taking the load off the IFC presidents’ shoulders. Bob Waugh, current IFC president, commented, “I don't mind the responsibility. I enjoy the work. But then someone in the future may not.”

Duties of the Scholarship Committee would range from making periodic reviews of fraternity scholarship to sponsoring lectures and other scholarly activities.

PUBLICITY COMMITTEE

The Publicity Committee would publish a yearly booklet on “Fraternities at Davidson,” a “Fraternity President’s Handbook,” and also a self-critical article in THE DAVIDSONIAN discussing IFC and fraternity activities.

The Rush and Greek Week group would be responsible for running as well as studying and presenting ways of improving Rush and Greek weeks.

The Housing Committee would provide systematic liaison between house managers, house mothers, and the administration. It would also see that the interests of each fraternity are upheld in such things as “general improvements.”

Causing much discussion was the proposed Investigations Committee, composed of the 12 fraternity presidents, which would review infractions of the IFC rules and administer punishments including rushing, social and intramural probations.

IFC Revises Dates For Spring Plans

It was necessary to reverse the concert and Spring Frolics, but dates have been set to round out the spring social calendar, IFC President Bob Waugh announced today. Appearing at the April 14 concert will be Ahmad Jamal, while two weeks later Dakota Staton will be featured at the Friday night dance. The following afternoon (April 28) Lester Flatt and Earl Scruggs will provide the entertainment.Who can speak with personal knowledge of the significance of what is now happening in Asia and the Pacific? When he talks about Communism, it is from his personal experience of having worked in areas in China under its control as far back as 1930.

East Asia Expert Gives Talk To IRC

Far Eastern expert, William H. Sullivan, will speak here on Wednesday, Feb. 28 under the auspices of the International Relations Club. IRC President Jamey Long announced that Sullivan, who is United Nations advisor to the Far Eastern Bureau of the U.S. Department of State, will give his talk in the Green Room of the Union at 7:15 p.m.

Sullivan is a graduate of Brown University and Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. His numerous positions have carried him to a variety of locations. He has served as vice consul at Calcutta, second secretary and vice consul at Tokyo, consul and second secretary at Rome, officer-in-charge of Burman Affairs for the State Department, and Foreign Affairs Officer. He assumed his present position in 1960.

DR. J. M. RICHARDS, right, chats with Harlee Branch, Jr. after the Wednesday meeting of the Board of Trustees. Richards is chairman of the Board of Trustees and Branch, a commencement speaker here in May, is also a member of the board. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Wellford Wins Marshall Award

Harrison Wellford, Honor Court chairman, has become one of 19 United States students to win a Marshall Scholarship for study in England. Among the other winners is a former Davidson student, Graham Allison, who transferred to Harvard in 1960. Wellford is the first Davidson student to win a Marshall. The British government began offering the scholarship nine years ago in gratitude for aid under the Marshall Plan after World War II. The award provides for study at Oxford or Cambridge as well as covering travel allowances.

STUDIES AT PEMBROKE

Wellford plans to study history at Pembroke, one of the colleges at Cambridge University. Under the British tutorial system, he will study with one professor. The eight-week school terms are separated by vacation periods of six weeks, which Wellford hopes to spend mostly in France and Germany. Marshall Scholars will meet in New York next September and travel together to England where they will be received by Parliament as official guests of the British government.

Wellford, a member of Phi Beta Kappa and ODK, is from Charlotte. He has served on the Honor Court for three years and also on the soccer team. He indicated an intention to go out for crew at Cambridge.

For Room Rent, Tuition Committee Plan Davidson Entry Will Study Integration

The question of admitting Negroes to Davidson was referred to the executive committee of the Board of Trustees for study and recommendation after the Board heard the results of both the faculty and student polls on integration at their Wednesday meeting. The executive committee will meet before the May meeting of the Board and may present a report then. However, no definite time was set for the committee to report on their study. The executive committee consists of the president and the secretary of the trustees, ex officio, and 14 other members.

President J. McDowell Richards said that in referring the matter to the executive committee rather than to the special committee that studied the question before, the trustees showed that they did not want simply the same answer. This committee had recommended three years ago that the admission of Negroes to Davidson was not in the best interests of the college. Wednesday's action showed the trustees wanted a new study of the question, Richards said.

Prof. W. G. McGavock presented the trustees the result of the faculty poll, which showed 53 members in favor of admitting qualified Negroes, 14 against, with one member abstaining. McGavock also answered questions from the trustees on the faculty poll. The results of the two-day student poll conducted by the Student Council and THE DAVIDSONIAN, in which 53% of those voting favored integration, was presented by President D. G. Martin. Some of the trustees expressed surprise that only 59% of the students voted.

Richards was not surprised that the student poll favored integration. He did, however, express surprise that the vote was not more in favor of integration, as he explained he considered Davidson students to be “well-informed and progressive.” There was no discussion of the admission of Congolese students, but Richards said that the vote to the trustees last year to allow up to three qualified Congolese students to enter Davidson still stood.

In University Center

BY GEORGE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Davidson College Trustees held their annual winter meeting Wednesday. Meeting in two sessions and one luncheon, the 42 trustees present took action on several subjects, including Davidson's proposed entry into the Piedmont University Center and an increase in college fees.

The trustees approved the membership of Davidson in the Piedmont University Center, which is being established by the institutions of higher learning in the Piedmont area of North Carolina. The purpose of this organization is to foster cooperative and coordinated effort in connection with visiting scholars, sponsored research for faculty members, cooperative professors, library cooperation, and artists and lecturers series. Based on an experiment first conceived in Toronto, Canada, university centers have since spread from Canada to areas in the United States, including Atlanta and Richmond. Judging by the activities of the Atlanta center, the trustees felt that one in the Piedmont was a good possibility.

The trustees also approved a motion to increase room rent for all dormitories from $170 to $200 beginning with the 1962-63 school year. They voted to increase the tuition and general fee for members of the Freshman Class entering next September from $800 to $900, with another $100 raise to $1000 for the freshmen entering in September, 1963. These increases will not, however, affect those students presently enrolled in Davidson.

“Davidson is out of line with what similar institutions are charging,” said Dr. J. McDowell Richards, chairman of the Board of Trustees. “Those who can pay should pay.” However, Dr. Richards indicated that boys with limited means should still be allowed to come to Davidson with the financial aid of scholarships and campus jobs.

In further business, the trustees appointed two new members to the college faculty. Jesse Clifton Albergotti, BA (Wheaton College), who expects his PhD from the University of North Carolina in the summer of 1962, was appointed Assistant Professor of Physics. Albergotti is a native of Columbia, S. C. Eugene Ferrell Miller, BA, MA (Emory University) and a candidate for the PhD at the University of Chicago under the Committee on Social Studies, was appointed Instructor in Political Science. He is a native of Atlanta, and is a Danforth Fellow at Chicago.

The trustees also granted sabbatical leaves of absence to professors S. D. Maloney and H. A. Bryan during 1962-63. Dr. Maloney plans to study at Yale Divinity School and Dr. Bryan at the University of London. Dr. R. R. Bernard was also granted a leave of absence.

(Continued On Page Four)