PAGE FOUR

BEFORE: 1958
AFTER: 1962

New Water-Based Era
BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Lake Norman Promises

When the gates of the Cowans Ford Dam slammed shut earlier this year, a new life began for Davidson. It is not yet clearly visible; but it has already started, as witnessed by the visit of Duke Power’s Henry Cheney to the campus last week and Dan Adams’ last cartoon in THE DAVIDSONIAN. It is a life that will be characterized by water rather than land, by a speed boat rather than a hot rod. A new IFC sports program will come into effect to take advantage of the water. And perhaps even a lakeshore bar will replace Hattie’s as the Davidson Gentleman's favorite place of relaxation.

COLLEGE SITE

The college will, for a certainty, have a spot on the lake. Business Manager Robert Currie’s official statement on the matter reads, “The college plans to acquire an adequate recreational site on the lake at a reasonable distance from the campus.” This statement may not sound like much to encourage water-enthusiasts. But Currie hinted at more when I questioned him. It is safe to say that Davidson will have a very sizable piece of land at the lake, probably more than five acres. Currie did not care to comment where the land would come from or where it would be located. But, it appears that the college will not have to purchase or lease it; rather it will be a gift, most probably from the Duke Power Company itself.

Currie stated that the planning for the development of the land had not yet started. “The college realizes the need for bathing facilities and a spot to launch boats, and these things will be taken into consideration in the planning,” Currie said. “We will probably have a commercial marina located near our land. The college does not plan to have a boat launch on its own land,” he added.

NO TO FRATERNITIES

And while Lake Norman has been filling, President D. G. Martin has been turning over in his mind the question of fraternity land on the lake. For water-lovers in a Greek organization, the outlook is not good. “It has been the policy of the college in the past to forbid the ownership of any land by a fraternity,” Martin said. “Even though the matter has not come up officially, I personally am opposed to fraternities securing land on the lake.” President Martin feels that the crux of the thing is that the fraternities with lakeside facilities will have an unfair advantage over other fraternities in acquiring pledges. “The very reason that the college built fraternity-row was to keep competition at a minimum between fraternities,” he said.

But even with no fraternity lodges being permitted on Lake Norman, Davidson students are eager for the day when the lake will be filled. The interest here was clearly visible last week when Mr. Cheney was bombarded with questions after his chapel talk. Even the fact that he could answer but few of them did not perturb students.

CHAPEL FACTS

Cheney was a bit more informative in a phone interview. He had some statistics that he was eager to give out; and for the benefit of all frustrated chapel questioners, they are as follows: The shoreline is over 500 miles long; 32,500 acres will be under water; the lake is 33½ miles in length and has an average width of 1½ miles; the dam is 130 feet high, 90 feet thick at its base, and built at a total cost of $62 million; and Lake Norman will be the largest body of water entirely within the state of North Carolina. Upon completion, the power plant on the west side of the dam will be the fourth largest capacity privately owned hydroelectric generating center in the country. Four turbine generators with capacities of 87,500 kilowatts can produce a total capacity of 350,000 kilowatts if necessary.

LEASE INFORMATION

Cheney said that anyone interested in leasing land on the lake should send a letter to the Real Estate Dept., Duke Power Co., Charlotte. All that would be necessary in the letter would be to ask to get on the Lake Norman Site List. Unfinished construction continues on the dam; construction has begun on the plant. The Catawba River has already had its flow interrupted, and Lake Norman has begun to fill. Duke Power will soon have a generating plant at Cowans Ford—Davidson College will soon have a new way of life with a water base.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters To The Editor

THE DAVIDSONIAN will publish any non-libelous, signed letters to the editor. Letters should not exceed 250 words and must be mailed to Box 218 or placed under the door of THE DAVIDSONIAN office on the second floor of the Union no later than 7 p.m. Tuesday. The editor reserves the right to edit letters of questionable interest to the public. The writer’s consent will be requested.

Literary Element Has Owen, Kennedy
BY BILL TROTTER
Davidsonian Fine Arts Critic

“Writing is the loneliest business in the world,” said Guy Owen, sinking down into the humid Union easy chair. It was a good way to bring that occupation into focus. The perception of that focus increased as one listened to Dr. Owen. For he is a writer, and he knows what that strange sort of calling involves. He is a part of what might be termed the literary element of the Fine Arts Festival which was climaxed on Thursday with his presenting the Vereen Bell Award, and with the poetry reading by X. J. Kennedy. This emphasis on writing was certainly made more valuable by Dr. Owen. For he brought out, in his conversation, the fascinating and frustrating paradox that is writing. Writing blends art, craft, and luck probably more than any other art, and its greatest paradox, as Mr. Owen seemed to stress, is that it has a strong business side to it—the daily drudgery of editing, polishing, rewriting—all the chores which stand far removed from the hot gush of inspiration.

Dr. Owen considered his own personal mission to be that of a sensitive reflecting historian, trying to suspend from time the spirit of a certain region with which he feels identified. The elusive inspiration to write, he defines as an internal itching, a nagging persistence that simply will not leave the writer until it has been put on paper. He believes in the validity of an inspirational flash, but holds firmly to the conviction that ideas which do not ripen and continue to mature and goad after their initial impact, should be ruthlessly weeded out. He is more fully aware of the dangers inherent in regional fiction than most authors. “People don’t mind being put into a novel unless it’s the truth,” he comments wryly, after relating some of his own experiences among the people of the region about which he wrote his first novel, Season Of Fear. A writer's primary training should be to develop a love and a respect for words, not a ponderous vocabulary necessarily, but “good, masculine, decisive Anglo-Saxon words.” One criterion for the writer to judge the success of a piece of work by is when “his characters suddenly begin to surprise him and live of their own accord.”

Also fine in a different way, was the Thursday night poetry reading by X. J. Kennedy. Mr. Kennedy was a large, shambling man, with a soft-spoken manner, and a deceptively sharp wit that soon had the audience delighted. He began the program with a Frost poem ("That way if you think my stuff is bad, the evening won't be a total loss.”) and followed it with what he termed “the worst poem I have ever read” (“So that my stuff won't look so bad after all.”). “His stuff” was certainly far

THE BATISTE OXFORD

The cooling propensities of lightest-weight Batiste are now joined to the texture and weave of fine Oxford. The result? A cotton conservative that will stand up to the warmest days in style. Handsomely, comfortably designed withHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

an authentic button-down collar and short sleeves. ©1961. Gont Shinmoten Rush Wilson, Ltd. from bad. Hearing a poet read his own works is somewhat like hearing a composer conduct his own piece—there is a ring of authority that is uniquely individual. So it was with Mr. Kennedy's voice—it had a feathery magnetism and precision that made you listen closely. Though it may be objectionable to pick a poem apart, such a thing becomes truly justifiable when the poet does the picking. His poem displayed a joyous wit and simplicity that was remarkable. He won the audience immediately and kept his pace moving so that no part of his reading dragged. The entire evening was one of the most relaxed and downright fun-filled that Hodson Hall has seen this year. Mr. Kennedy can come back any time. It remains only to make the bald statement that his audience consisted of less than thirty people.

Simpson (Continued From Page One) of the film. FINAL GREMLINS Recording began as soon as the film had been returned. Final editing is still being done to aid in recording several sequences. Inadequate equipment and the problem of lip synchronization is hampering final recording. But one day “Aurora” will be a reality. When? “Soon,” is the most definite answer Simpson can offer.

SPECIAL MEETING The new social organization sponsored by the Faculty Fraternity and Social Life Committees will meet in the cafeteria of the College Union at 7 p.m. Tuesday, May 1. All persons interested in the organization are urged to attend the meeting at which details of the organization and the proposed constitution will be presented.

©1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Joe Martin Plans Return As Admissions Assistant Joseph B. Martin, a senior, has accepted the position of Assistant Director of Admissions for the school year 1962-1963. Martin will assist H. Edmunds White, Director of Admissions. Martin is an English major and intends to attend a Presbyterian Seminary following one year of work in the admissions office. Next year his duties will involve interviewing and visiting the schools of prospective students, as well as administrative work. At Davidson, he has been a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society and Le Cercle Francais. In his junior year he served as a feature writer for THE DAVIDSONIAN and on the editorial staff of QUIPS and CRANKS. He is also a member of the Male Chorus, having served as vice president of that group in his junior year and president in his senior year. This year Martin has served as head cheerleader. In that capacity he was instrumental in the procuring of a wildcat as the college mascot. This fall he was named to Who's Who. Martin is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. In his freshman year he served as president of his pledge class and was named Outstanding Pledge. He was Rush Chairman during his junior year and has served as president of the fraternity during his senior year.

Annual Editor Sets Distribution Date “The annuals will be here in about ten days,” Rob Abernethy, editor of the 1962 Quips and Cranks, said today. “We'll have notices in the chapel announcement sheet and on the bulletin boards around campus to let everybody know when they can pick them up.” Abernethy said distribution will be carried out in the same way it was done last year, except that more staff members will be in the annual office to speed up the process. Five days after the distribution date, books that have not been called for will be sold to anyone who wants an extra copy. “This year’s Quips and Cranks will probably make some demands on the reader,” he continued. “We have kept in mind that since students automatically buy their yearbooks when they pay their general fee in September, they want something more than a collection of composite pictures and lists of names. “The book is more than a directory, and it is not a journalistic or historical account of this year at Davidson. We have attempted a careful, systematic study of the Davidson student. This statement is vague but I think you'll understand when you read the book. “If you'll read the annual from front to back, noticing that many of our photographs have an implied meaning which is more significant than the obvious content, I think you'll see what we've tried to get across.”

COCA-COLA AND COKE ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS

In over 100 countries people get that refreshing new feeling with Coke! Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina

New ‘Y’ Officers Assume Command YMCA officers and cabinet members for 1962-63 were installed during chapel period Wednesday. They assumed office immediately. Officers of the organization were elected by the Student Body in March. They are Neil Nichols, president; Andy Sale, vice president; Bob Bethel, secretary; and Rick Brand, treasurer. Chosen to fill cabinet positions were David Stitt, Spiritual Life; Joe Howell, Community Service; Dan Adams, Deputations; George Oehler, Forums; and Algie Guess, Publicity. Spud Stewart, recently elected Freshman Advisor, will also sit on the Cabinet, as will the presidents of the two sectarian youth groups on campus, Joe McCutchen of Westminster Fellowship and Tom Archibald of Methodist Student Movement. In addition, Jim Glenn, who was chosen last month to be vice president of the Southern Area Study Council, will be a member of the cabinet. The YMCA will sponsor three projects to culminate the 1961-62 school year. To finance these projects, contributions from each of the last three Vespers offerings—April 29, May 6, and May 13—will be used. The money collected will be supplemented by additional funds from the YMCA budget. The Vespers offering of April 29 will be used to help send five additional college graduates into foreign countries. These men will work in the YMCA program of their particular country.

FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1962

Douglas V. Steere Preaches Sunday Vespers preacher this Sunday night will be Dr. Douglas V. Steere, internationally known mystic philosopher and currently Harry Emerson Fosdick visiting professor at Union Theological Seminary in New York. A Quaker, Dr. Steere has authored, edited or translated a number of books relating to philosophy and religion. He is especially well known for his pioneer translation from the Danish of Soren Kierkegaard’s Purity of Heart. Several of Steere’s most recent publications are Time to Spare (1948), On Listening to Another (1955), and Work and Contemplation (1957). The YMCA announces that there will be no faculty homes open to students after Vespers this week.

Fraternities Sing For Union Contest The annual Inter-Fraternity Sing, which is sponsored by the Union, will be held May 10. Heading the 1962 program are Steve Arthur, Union Special Features chairman, and Bob Keiter, Union Social Committee chairman. Beginning at 8 p.m., this year’s Sing will be held on the steps of the Union or, in the event of inclement weather, in Chambers Auditorium. The traveling trophy, which was won last year by the ATO’s, will also be presented to the winning fraternity. In an interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN Ben Cole, president of the Union, outlined the following rules for the Sing. 1. Only members of the fraternity can participate. 2. A minimum of 20 brothers is required for a fraternity to enter. 3. Each fraternity will sing 3 songs. 4. Only one song may be a fraternity song. Medleys, not to exceed 5 minutes in length are permissible. 5. No accompaniment is permitted. A piano is available to sound pitch before each song.

Europe for American sophomores and juniors. But which year is best? That's up to you—and institute programs offer sophomores the opportunity to broaden their background in general studies and the liberal arts, juniors the opportunity to specialize among the liberal arts.

VIENNA Attend English or German-taught liberal arts courses. Discover European culture at its roots by living in a Viennese home. Visit nine European countries on three field-study trips. Fee: $2,475.

PARIS Attend French-taught classes. Investigate France and the Benelux countries on a field-study trip. Live in a Parisian home. Fee: $2,475.

FREIBURG Attend German-taught liberal arts courses. Live in a German home. Be introduced to Western Germany, Switzerland and Italy on two field-study trips. Fee: $2,325.

For further information mail coupon. Institute of European Studies, Box J, 35 East Wacker Drive, Chicago 1, Illinois.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.