PAGE FOUR | THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE PLAYERS, INC. prepare for their performance of Richard III. Portraying Lady Anne was Susan Walker, a 24-year-old co-ed currently
on tour with the drama troupe.

Richard III Features Young Susan Walker

By DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Among the female members of the touring Players, Inc., troupe is the lovely Susan Walker—Lady Anne to the Chambers Auditorium
audience which this week saw the Players present “Richard III.” Susan, a 24-year-old drama graduate from Miami University, is doing
this tour as a result of receiving a Players’ Award from the Catholic University of America in Washington, D. C.

ONCE STAGE-SHY

At a coffee hour after the performance, Miss Walker, a former Cherry Blossom Queen, traced her career up to becoming
a member of Players. “At Bennett Jr. College and Miami,” she reminisced, “I was always active in dramatics, but usually
in backstage work. However, two of my profs at Miami encouraged me to do more actual acting, and gave me
the necessary confidence to overcome my stage fright.”

After graduation, Susan toured for a year with the Barter Theatre, a company from Abingdon, Virginia, a top-ranking company which
has produced such stalwarts as Ernest Borgnine, Gary Cooper, and Gregory Peck. Then came an opportunity to re-enter drama under
the auspices of a college, where, Sue says, “An actor or actress receives much individual attention, while in the professional
world, if you're not at the moment useful, you just exist.”

Sue went to Washington to audition for a part in Catholic U.’s Players Plan, and was soon notified of her
acceptance. In addition, she was granted one of the two annual Players’ Awards. “All recipients of the Award tour with
the troupe for one year; then, it is up to the University whether we shall study, do summer stock, prepare
for another tour, or whatever.”

GRUELING TOUR

The Players, after six weeks’ practice, tour from October to May, from Maine to Florida and westward to San Antonio,
Texas. They often do as many as seven or eight performances a week, and they perform for high school, college,
and community audiences. This is the 13th year of Players, part of a large-scale drama sponsorship by Catholic U., which
also operates two summer stock theatres.

“Players is great experience,” remarked Susan, “but not only in the obvious area of acting. With 16 people to fill
34 parts and do lighting, staging, costuming, and make-up work as well, we all get a wide variety of experience.
In ‘Richard III,’ Lady Anne backstage becomes the assistant stage manager and the sound coordinator.”

With two station wagons, a large property truck, and a tight and harrying schedule, life on the tour must become
hectic at times, to say the least. It is indeed, confirms Miss Walker. The work is hard and tiresome, and
“mornings often come too early.” However, the Players are young, and their work in this tour is one more step
towards improving their capabilities and their chances to reach New York or Hollywood. Susan remarks, “Of course I like to
think there’s someone big in the audience who will admire my performance. But the big thing is to know that
I’m improving myself and doing what I love.”

MARRIAGE VS. STAGE

Has marriage competed with the career of such a beautiful young lady, not far removed from the coed set? “I
firmly believe that marriage and the stage can’t be mixed. I never seem to think of all this ending and
I'm sure I've passed up many things, including marriage, and not even known it.”

Just how high do this particular young actress’ aspirations reach? “I want to become a respected actress, if not a
star. Of course I want especially to work in New York, and I'd also love to do some movie work
in Italy.” Sue remarked on the interest that their performance usually arouses in audiences which have little opportunity to view
live drama. Let it be said that the Davidson gentlemen have equally meager opportunity to view such charming femininity as
Miss Susan Walker.

Four One-Act Plays

The Vagabonds will present a program of four one-act plays at 8:15 on Wednesday, March 21, in the Fine Arts
Building. The four plays, “Krapp’s Last Tape,” “Lithuania,” “Aria da Capo,” and “Picnic on the Battlefield,” will be entered in
the Drama Festival held here later in the week.

“Krapp’s Last Tape” by Samuel Beckett, whom Prof. Sneden describes as being “very far out,” stars Smith McKeithen and is
directed by Don Stowell. Rupert Brooke's “Lithuania” concerns a mother and family who plot to kill a stranger for his
money, only to learn that the victim is the mother’s estranged son, absent for many years.

T. H. McDill Gives Vespers Address

The speaker for vespers this Sunday will be the Rev. Thomas H. McDill, Jr., a professor at Columbia Theological Seminary
in Decatur, Georgia. Prof. McDill is a native of Arkansas and obtained his AB at Erskine College, his MA at
Princeton Theological Seminary, and is currently working toward a PhD from the University of Chicago. He served as a chaplain
in the army, as a clinical counselor at a state hospital in Illinois, and as an instructor of counseling and
therapy at MacCormac Theological Seminary in Chicago before accepting his present position at Columbia.

Elections (Continued From Page One)

and business managers of the four publications, Robert A. Currie, business manager of the college, and Prof. J. T. Kimbrough.
The entire student body votes for editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, while only the rising senior class was eligible to cast
ballots for the annual editor.

CLASS LEADERS

Balloting which began today on freshman advisor will continue Monday. Again, only rising seniors are eligible to vote for this
office. Nominations will also be forthcoming next week for Student Council members and class officers.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Brown
Kelton
Sneden
Burts
Lilly
Stroud
Currie
Lloyd
Tucker
Daggy
MacCormac
White, L.
Gable
Martin, J. G.
Whittle
Griffin
Scott
Williams

Open Houses (Continued From Page One)

statesmen who are ahead of their time—not by politicians who appeal to nothing more than the emotional biases and shortsightedness
of their time. True reform is based on what has been proven good in the past in synthesis with what
the future demands. And true statesmen (reformers, men of vision) are often crucified by what Woodrow Wilson once called “the
fiery darts of public ignominy.”

My platform deals with a reform of THE DAVIDSONIAN’s approach to issues which I firmly believe is necessary and can
be brought about without major havoc. A New Objectivity will affect approach to political issues, forcing conservatives and liberals alike
to defend their demands with reason as well as emotional appeal.

I will stand behind this platform. If you choose it, I swear that nothing promised here will be forgotten in
the pressures of office.

(Continued From Page One)

pressing for abolition of the “off-campus” section of the drinking rule.

3.—to continue to support and examine the implementation of integration at Davidson and in the South in general.

4.—a special search for new ways to exert student influence for needed faculty and curriculum changes.

5.—as the fine arts program is increased both from within and through Piedmont University Center, increased news coverage and study
of activities in this area.

6.—to study the possibility of including a monthly insert, published nationally, of the “Collegiate Digest” type used in other papers.

I think that in the past two years of working on THE DAVIDSONIAN I have gained quite a bit of
experience in the mechanics of putting out a paper and, if elected, will try to produce a complete and respected
“News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College.”

ROTC Expands Horizons; Department Wants Flyers

The Davidson College ROTC Department will for MS IV volunteers next year. The program includes 36 hours of ground instruction
and 36 hours of actual air instruction, leading to a private pilot’s certificate.

To be accepted for the course, a student will have to be an MS IV, must have a high enough
academic average to be recommended by the Dean of Students and PMS, and must pass the flight physical and flight
aptitude tests which will be given at Fort Bragg this summer. In addition, all applicants for the program will have
to sign an agreement to serve on active duty in the army for three years. A minimum of five students
is necessary for the course to be given.

Capt. Donald Threlkeld explained that the students who...20 years. It is, in Sneden’s words, “a sick play.” Featured in the
cast under Sneden’s direction are Walter Bost, Mrs. Lovise Hampton, Mrs. Kay Gross, Bill Moss, Richard Grant, Pierce Howard, and
Tommy Hamilton. “Aria da Capo” by Edna St. Vincent Millay is a poetic drama styled after the harlequinade, a form
employing stock or stereotyped characters. Appearing in “Aria da Capo” are Mrs. Anne Maloney, Pete Myers, Neal Bushoven, Don Stowell,
and Woody Danenhower. The fourth, “Picnic on the Battlefield,” a French play by Arrabel, a Spaniard who lived in France,
concerns a boy at war whose parents have come to join him on the battlefield for a picnic. The cast
is composed of Mrs. Frontis Johnston, Howard Cornelsen, John Meincer, Emory Brown, and Bob Miller. The Drama Festival in which
these plays will be entered is being held here on March 23 and 24 and is the district elimination in
the annual competition held by the Carolina Dramatic Association, this year celebrating its 40th anniversary. In last year's district festival,
held in Charlotte, the Davidson group entered five plays, three of which received Distinguished ratings. These three went to Chapel
Hill where one, “The Second Shepherd's Play,” captured a Distinguished rating.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte,
N. C.

Sign the three-year agreement for active duty would only have to serve for two years if they were not assigned
to an aviation unit. “But all students who are placed in aviation will have to stay on active duty for
three years,” he said. “This is not much worse than regular ROTC graduates who now have to go active duty
for two years.” President D. Grier Martin has already approved the program for next year if enough students desire it.
The college will be under no obligation to offer any credits to students participating in the course. “The entire program
will be extra-curricular; it will in no way affect the ROTC program not being offered,” Threlkeld said. The schedule for
the course will be determined by the private schedule of the individual student taking it. “Some students may finish it
in one semester, for some it may take longer,” Threlkeld explained. All facilities and equipment for the course will be
provided by the flying school contracted to teach it. The only exceptions are the text and flying clothes which will
be furnished by the government. “A flying school will handle all instruction and give all tests,” Threlkeld said. “No ROTC
personnel will have anything to do with the course.” The purposes listed by Threlkeld for giving the program are as
follows: to create a reserve pool of qualified pilots for the army, to motivate college students to seek a career
in army aviation, and to screen applicants for army aviation. “The program will give all interested students an excellent opportunity
to learn to fly at government expense,” Threlkeld said in lauding the course. “I would heartily encourage all MS III's
who would like to learn how to fly to sign up for it. I believe we already have enough interest
now to make the program worthwhile.”

The Proper Place for that Saturday Night Meal and After-Date Snack home of the Big Boy Fresh Strawberry Pie! Slim
Jims! Big Boys! E. Morehead in Charlotte

FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1962

Ex-Intelligence Officer Returns To Education
BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Twenty-five years is a long time. But I wanted to finish what I had started.” These words were spoken by
Mr. H. S. Isler, a grey-haired man of about 45 who sits in the senior section for chapel three times
a week. Needless to say, he doesn’t sit there because he likes the programs; he is a student here with
38 more hours needed to graduate. He came here for the first time in 1934. In 1936 he left school
for a pretty fair reason—money. Then came a variety of jobs: cashier for an insurance company, employment with the Seaboard
Railroad, and several more that he wouldn’t care to mention. In 1941 he was drafted and went to Coast Artillery
OCS school. Isler saw action at Normandy with an anti-aircraft battery. The war came to an end, but something about
the army held Isler. He volunteered to go on Army Intelligence School, and he came out equipped to do the
important job of evaluating information supplied by our cloak-and-dagger men.

NOT ALL FUN
“Don't let any adventure stories fool you on the role of the intelligence at work,” he told me. “Most of
it is just hard, unglamorous work, examining data and things like that. I mainly did desk work overseas, serving most
of my time in Germany and Iceland. You know, even though Uncle Sam never admits that he has any spies,
he likes to keep tabs on even friendly governments. That’s what I was doing in Iceland. The work is pretty
interesting; you'd be surprised at some of the things we find out.” But Isler didn't care to comment on what
some of those “interesting things” were. “Old Uncle Sam doesn’t like for his information collectors to say much about what
they do,” he said with a grin. “I spent my last few years as an enlisted man so that I
could get in 20 years for retirement,” he went on. “My highest rank in active service was major, and I
retired as a lieutenant colonel in the Reserves. But they cut out my class a few years ago, and I
stayed on until I could retire.”

WORKED IN CAROLINAS
His last years in the intelligence were spent in the Carolinas checking into the backgrounds of army personnel who were
applying for classified jobs. “The people in the South are basically better than you get in the larger northern cities,”
Isler said. “There are not nearly as many subversive elements down here. About the only thing you have to watch
out for is a man who is a heavy drinker or gambler.” But Isler is back now. “Just bullheadedness on
my part,” he explained. “I'm really too old to come back here and do all of this work. I am
not doing it for the fun of it, I can tell you that.” He is majoring in history with hopes
of teaching until he can put his son through N. C. State. “Then it’s travel for my wife and me,”
he laughed.

DAVIDSON TOUGHER
How does Davidson stack up with the school of the 30's? “There's a good deal more outside reading to do
for all of the courses now,” according to Isler. “It's really tougher, a whole lot more so. The only professor
that is still here that I can remember is Dr. Schenck. I can remember names of the ones I had
but not how they taught. But I do know that the way they teach now is a lot harder, and
the quality of students is better, too.” Isler hopes to receive his diploma with next year's senior class. “I'm getting
15 hours off this semester. Then I only want to take four or five courses each of the next two
semesters. It's too tough for an old man like me to try and take more than that; things up here
are rough,” he lamented.

THE CLOAK AND DAGGER are set aside by Mr. H. S. Isler in favor of continuing his education. He will
graduate with the class of '63.

An invitation to shape your own future...
Opportunities for advancement at General Telephone are particularly promising because communications is one of the ranking growth industries. To help
you grow with the company, the General Telephone System provides planned training programs, and encourages and aids an individual in
self-development. Many college graduates have earned early advancements with General Telephone within the areas of their own interests and attributes.
If you majored in Engineering, Mathematics, Physics, Business Administration, the Liberal Arts or the Social Sciences, then there are many
fine opportunities in numerous locations where you can count on a management career.

EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES: The General Telephone Company of North Carolina has many employment opportunities for college-trained people. Contact your Placement Office
for full information.

We invite you to explore your own possibilities at General Telephone. As a start, ask your Placement Director for a
copy of our brochure.

GENERAL TELEPHONE
America’s Largest Independent Telephone System
