PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Career Carnival

Mon., Nov. 12
Kleeb and Bullard
Mutual of New York
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
General Electric
Trust Co. of Georgia

Tues., Nov. 13
1st National Bank of S.C.
Haskins and Sells
Piedmont Publishing Co.
Riegel Textiles Co.

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

given for public school students at 2:30 on Nov. 17. Stowell commented that he had more students acting in Galileo
than he had seen act in the motives of Galileo.”

Wed., Nov. 14
D. G. Martin Plays Lead In Vagabonds’ ‘Galileo’

Under the direction of Assistant Director Don Stowell, the Vagabonds will present Bertolt Brecht’s Galileo each night beginning at 8:15
in Hodson Hall of the Fine Arts Building from Nov. 14-17. A special Saturday matinee performance will be given for
public school students at 2:30 on Nov. 17. Stowell commented that he had more students acting in Galileo than he
had seen act in the motives of Galileo.”

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1962

IVEY LEAGUE on the air, Junior Bob Ivey prepares a tape for the Davidson quarter-hour spotlight to be featured weekly
on WBT. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Duke Power
Boy Scouts of America
DuPont

Davidson Hits Airways, WBT Carries Ivey Tapes

BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Davidson College has various means of breaking out of its perennial isolation booth and disseminating its character throughout the land—means
such as debate teams, THE DAVIDSONIAN, Sterling Martin’s straw leading the pack, and the weekly suitcase exodus. But soon Davidson
College is to become a household word, much like “Breakfast of Champions,” “Mother Fletcher's Castoria,” and The Brighter Day. For
it is going on the radio, and the full power of Charlotte’s 1110 station, WBT, will be telling of us
to everyone from Fidel Castro to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

Bob Ivey, the writer, organizer, and announcer for this weekly 15-minute expose, avows the show's purpose to be: “To make
it possible for listeners to be able to maintain contact with higher education.” If the American public can tear itself
away from the higher education of TV from 9:45 to 10:00 every Monday night, they will hear interviews, panel discussions,
musicals, and descriptions of and samplings from nearly all areas of campus activity.

This condensed Davidson version of Monitor will begin this Monday night, Nov. 12, with a general introduction and a brief
history of the college. Comments from President D. Grier Martin and Danny Carrell will add notes of vivaciousness to this
premiere show. Other shows will feature a visit from the Board of Visitors, drinking songs by the Male Chorus, and
a taped interview with that droll new entertainer, Nels F. S. Ferre. The maintenance men were rumored to have volunteered
to do a program of spirituals, Ajax Cleanser songs, and reminiscences of shower-room experiences, but Ivey has wisely refused.

This program will be a serious attempt by Ivey and the college Publicity Department to interest listeners, whether or not
they have a specific interest in Davidson, with how the departments and organizations of a college operate to educate and
train its students.

Freshman Council Decides On Stokes

The Freshman Council elected Jim Stokes, president; Johnny Webb, secretary-treasurer; and Bob Groat, projects chairman at its regular meeting last
week.

President Stokes comes from Winter Park, Fla., where he was graduated as salutatorian of his senior class. He is a
pledge of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity and is a member of the Frosh swimming team. He hopes to major
in chemistry.

Webb, from Chattanooga, Tenn., attended the Baylor School for Boys in Chattanooga before coming to Davidson. At Baylor he received
the NDCC Superior Cadet award. Webb is an Independent, he works in the Union and is interested in wrestling.

Groat, the projects chairman, is from Greensboro and finished Greensboro High as salutatorian of his class. He is an Independent
and, although still undecided, is thinking about majoring in chemistry.

Goodykoontz (Continued From Page One)

which a student can get experience in expressing himself. The primary benefit of drama is a chance at vocal expression.
But the student can also realize benefits in his education in the field of literature, benefits in experiencing emotions and
feelings, and benefits in learning to understand the problems of others.”

President Martin said that he had gone over with Goodykoontz the specific list of problems and that the administration would
work as rapidly as possible to clear them up. He said that the college would make an effort immediately to
secure an expert to train interested students in the operation of the lights for the stage. He also said that
the college would start at once to work out adequate storage space for props to relieve the space problem in
the Fine Arts Building.

Both Martin and Goodykoontz attributed the problem to the breakdown of communication and understanding at several key points. Both feel
that now that the problems have been brought out and discussed the dramatic operations will go much more smoothly.

Don Stowell, when reached by THE DAVIDSONIAN, said that the outcome of the meeting would have no effect on his
decision to resign. He did state that Galileo would be staged as scheduled. He said his main difficulty was in
the amount of work that he had been doing with the Vagabonds. He was in the infirmary for three days
at the end of last week suffering from nervous exhaustion.

Stowell said that “misunderstandings on several points with several people” had created more work than was necessary on the part
of himself and Goodykoontz. He said, “I don’t have any gripes with anybody; I just want out. This is what
it boils down to. My feelings aren’t hurt. I’ve had a lot of cooperation from a lot of people around
here.” He went on to say that the Vagabonds “have done some damn good shows, thanks mainly to the students.”

President Martin said that he hoped that Stowell would reverse his decision about leaving Davidson. He said that if Stowell
does leave, the college would attempt at once to find a competent man to assist Goodykoontz with the dramatics program.

Ferre (Continued From Page One)

swer, found out that Barth did indeed not believe, from another graduate student on a jaunt through the Near East.
After this, the two-hour “heated” argument with Reinhold Niebuhr in which Ferre caused him to equivocate his position was just
frosting to the cake. When it grew too late to poise like doubt on the edge ofa chair and crumble
cookies and drink coffee, Ferre rose to leave. He moved through the siege of questions like a reluctant earthworm through
Jell-o and only at last reached the door trailing an eager pegipatetice following. Monday morning and night and Tuesday morning
followed; by the last lecture Ferre had seen enough to state that he knew his audience was there by force.
Still, he would not amuse them but give them the best he had to offer. The cosmic had lost its
appeal. But what of Nels Ferre, the man talked of bibliographies like the old friends they were? He spoke for
the literacy of the Resurrection, and the traditional faith based on this fact of history. He was glad to have
fundamentalists argue with him; “It shows there is still someone to the right.” The rest was elaboration, interesting, often arresting,
often funny. For a while, Ferre had reveled in the Southern traditionalism. Students now hold their bull sessions without the
man with the famous friends and the funny laugh in a residual Swedish accent. Life, and its questions, slogs ahead.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Hunt
Minter
Smith
Cumming
Jackson
Pierce
Terry
Gourley
Johnston
Plott
Threlkeld
Hight
Lammers
Ratliff
Willcox
Houchens
McGeachy
Rhodes
Wruck

The OPEN Hub Just Across The Street
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

Leo and Bill Jacobs, a monk who is fascinated by the truth of the scientific method, will deliver the sermon
at Vespers Sunday night. An experiment will be carried on during the course of the play. The Vagabonds will use
several unusual technical procedures to make the play more interesting. Poetry will be used by narrator Greg Govan at the
beginning of each scene to keep the audience aware of the fact that the story is being staged and is
not real. Costumes of the actors will be half modern and half Renaissance. Some of Galileo’s writings illustrating subjects in
physics and astronomy will be projected on the back curtain at appropriate times throughout the play.

The play tells the story of the Renaissance astronomer and his struggle with authority as represented by the Catholic Church.
Other key roles are as follows: Sue Logan, Galileo’s teenage daughter; Pat Douglas, Andrea, the devoted disciple of Galileo who
is unable to understand his recantation of his discoveries; Doug Heidt, Ludovico, a young aristocrat; Tom Hamilton, the curator; Dick
Banks, Sagredo, a close friend of Galileo.

Dr. Lester Rumble, a member of the Board of Directors of Paine and Wesleyan Colleges and Emory University, will deliver
the sermon at Vespers Sunday night. A native of Monroe County, near Smarr, Ga., Rumble did his undergraduate work at
Emory University in Atlanta, where he took his AB, BD, and his DD degrees. He then entered Yale University to
do graduate study. Since his ordination into the ministry, Rumble has served pastorates in Adairsville, Trion, Oxford, Athens, Augusta, and
Atlanta. He has also long been active in the Kiwanis Club and served overseas as a 1st Lieutenant during World
War I.

In a Vagabond Workshop production this past Wednesday night, Steve Clark, Bob Miller, Virginia Carnue, and Mrs. Paul Marrotte read
from the prose, poetry, and drama of Brecht in order to introduce students of the college to him. The Workshop
was intended to give the students who attended it an understanding of what to look for in Galileo.

THE PLAY’S THE THING. Principals D. G. Martin, Jr. as Galileo and Sue Logan as Virginia appear in Brecht’s GALILEO,
which opens Wednesday. (Photo by Raynel).

America’s hottest new sports convertible! PRIX 50 GRAND

Sweepstakes for colleges only

Your chances of winning are 50 times better than if open to the general public. Winners’ Tempests will include: 3-speed
floor shift, bucket seats, deluxe trim and special décor, radio and heater, deluxe wheel discs, windshield washers, and white sidewall
tires; with delivery, sales tax, and registration all pre-paid! And, choice of body, trim, and top colors as well as
choice of differential gear ratios! Important: As your entries are received they become eligible for all subsequent drawings. So enter
often and enter early—before the drawing for the first five Tempests (right after Thanksgiving). Entries received by Thanksgiving weekend will
be eligible in drawings for all 50 Tempests! Remember: The more entries you submit, the more chances you have to
win!

You can win! 50 flashing new ’63 Pontiac Tempest Le Mans convertibles are up for grabs! They’re easy to win
and it’s lots of fun! The big sweepstakes is starting now... keeps going and growing through the school year. There'll
be drawings for 5, 10, then 15 and finally 20 new Tempest convertibles — four exciting laps—50 cars in all!
Enter often... no limit on the number of entries per person! Enter now! Here’s all you do:

1. Pick up a free official L&M Grand Prix 50 entry blank. Look for them where cigarettes are sold —on
and about campus. Fill it in.
2. Detach your serialized L&M Grand Prix 50 License Plate from your entry blank. Save it! Tear off the bottom
panels from 6 packs of L&M King, L&M Box, CHESTERFIELD KING or CHESTERFIELD Regular. Menthol smokers can enter with Oasis.
5 panels, or acceptable substitutes (see entry blank), must accompany each entry. Each entry must be mailed separately.
3. Mail us the panels and your serialized entry blank... it matches your license plate. Your serial number may be
one of the 50 that wins a '63 Tempest convertible! If you win, you may choose instead of the Tempest
a thrilling expense-paid 2-week Holiday in Europe —for Two! Plus $500 in cash!

FILTERS LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.

Get with the winners... far ahead in smoking satisfaction! See the Pontiac Tempest at your nearby Pontiac Dealer!

PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.
