PAGE FOUR

ATO’s Bleed Most, Win Blood Plaque

The ATO’s won Davidson's fall semester blood drive with 52 out of 53 eligible brothers donating. The Sigma Nu’s placed a close second, also lacking only one donation for a perfect score. Students gave a total of 296 pints of blood, somewhat lower than last spring’s figure. The remaining fraternities placed in the following order: Beta, Pika, Phi Delt, Sigma Chi, SAE, Phi Gam, Sig Ep, Kappa Sig, Pi Kap, KA, and Independents. The ROTC Department and the Red Cross sponsor the drives twice annually and furnish the blood letters. The IC, which recruits student helpers and records the competition, provides a plaque that passes to the fraternity with the greatest percentage of donors. The next blood drive will be sometime in April.

Church Moderator Preaches Sunday

The holder of the highest elective office in the Presbyterian denomination will deliver the sermon at vespers Sunday evening, Jan. 14. Dr. Wallace Alston, president of Agnes Scott College, is serving this year as Moderator of the Presbyterian Church in the U.S. A native of Atlanta, Alston was graduated from Emory University. Prior to assuming the presidency of Agnes Scott in 1948, he served pastorates in West Virginia and Georgia. In addition, Alston was director of youth work for the Presbyterian denomination for several years.

Goodykoontz lost no time in confirming many suspicions when he said that at least part of the reason for his presence was his reaction to Fulton J. Lewis III and his methodical defense of HUAC. And he lost no time in stating that it was his opinion that the committee was itself “basically unfair and un-American” and “as destructive to real Americanism as some of its many targets.”

To the unasked question of credentials, Dr. Goodykoontz stated that he had covered the committee while a reporter in Washington and had seen many of its abuses firsthand. As for his knowledge of Communism, Dr. Goodykoontz called attention to the fact that at the time of the Spanish Civil War he had joined the Young Communist League, then resigned after six weeks when he found that it was not what he expected. He said he regarded this as one of his most valuable educational experiences. “I have never had any respect for the communists since then,” said Dr. Goodykoontz. But he went on to add that the same “ruthlessness and power madness” which turned him against the League had also turned him against HUAC. In fact, he summarized, “the witch and the witch hunter are pretty much alike.”

Citing the reasons for his objections to HUAC, Dr. Goodykoontz first asked what constituted an “un-American activity.” And he further asked whether the handling of so touchy a matter, and such a dangerous one, should not be carried out by experts, that is the Federal Bureau of Investigation, rather than by a group of politicians who often use the committee as a sounding board for their own publicity. But in action as well as in theory, the remedy is almost as bad as the disease, for Dr. Goodykoontz pointed to the ruthless treatment of individuals by the committee. He cited the case of 110 California schoolteachers who were subpoenaed by the committee, complete with publicity, and then never given a hearing—to which the California Attorney General remarked that there was no basis for action under any of the charges. Further, HUAC is, in Dr. Goodykoontz’s analysis, both judge and prosecutor in its hearings, and it shares the Congressional Committee privilege of freedom from suit for damages. The individual before the committee cannot defend himself and is like a boxer with one hand tied. As our political orthodoxy becomes narrower in these times of crisis, patriotism becomes identified with such things as fundamentalism, and the activities of so-called patriots take on all the aspects of vigilante action. With the great power that has been given the committee, we are justified in expecting it to fill its function and to use this power with great care. Dr. Goodykoontz feels that HUAC has failed to do either.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Abernethy, Langford Edit Philosophy Text

Dr. George L. Abernethy, professor of philosophy at Davidson, and Dr. Thomas A. Langford, assistant professor of religion at Duke University, are co-editors of a newly published text entitled Philosophy of Religion, published Jan. 8 by the MacMillan Co. It is a book of readings designed as a textbook or supplementary book for college courses in philosophy of religion. This book of readings is the first to devote major attention to significant contemporary work in the philosophy of religion. It includes such topics as “Nature of Religion,” “Relationship of Theology to Philosophy and Religion,” and “Problem of the Existence of God.” Among the authors whose work is included are Paul Tillich, John Wisdom, Karl Barth, and R. B. Braithwaite.

FORMER STUDENT

Dr. Abernethy expressed the intention of using his new book as the text in his philosophy of religion class next semester. He has received word that it will be used at Boston University, University of Miami, University of Chattanooga, and Brooklyn College, among others. Dr. Langford, a Davidson alumnus and former student of Dr. Abernethy, received his B.D. degree at Duke Divinity School and his Ph.D. in Religion at Duke Graduate School. He will speak at vespers.On the first Sunday in February, the YMCA will sponsor a coffee hour where students may talk with Dr. Abernethy and Dr. Langford. Dr. Abernethy has been head of the philosophy department here for 16 years. He has edited a number of books, including "The Idea of Equality."

Three Davidsonians Will Study Abroad

Three Davidson students, John Carson, Bill Denham, and Jimmy Fisher, will study abroad next semester. Carson will continue in a liberal arts course at the University of Vienna, while Denham and Fisher will study at the University of Paris under the Vanderbilt Program. Dr. J. O. Embry, chairman of the Faculty Committee on Foreign Study, noted that several students are applying for study abroad next year and reminded those whose applications are still out that the deadline for turning them in is Jan. 15.

Davidson Alumnus Accepts Call Here

The Rev. Curtis P. Harper has accepted a call to become pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church. He will replace Dr. Samuel W. Newell, who moved to Richmond last September. Harper graduated from Davidson in the Class of 1950. He is originally from Lynchburg, Virginia. While at Davidson, he was a member of the Student Council, the YMCA Cabinet, the football team, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He also served as president of the Sophomore Class. After graduating from Davidson, Harper attended Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, where he received a Bachelor of Divinity degree. After serving 2 years as a Navy chaplain, Harper accepted a call to Chesterbrook Presbyterian Church in McLean, Va. In five years at this church, he raised its membership from 98 to 333. Harper comes to Davidson from McLean. He is married and has no children.

Radio Club Finishes High In Competition

BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The Radio Club brought another honor to the Davidson campus when it recently distinguished itself in a state and nation-wide competition of amateur radio operators. The Radio Club had been disbanded for some time until it was revived two years ago, with the ROTC Department as its guardian angel. ROTC furnishes operating space for the club, as well as some financial aid and advisors; Captain D. H. Threlkeld is now most active with the group. The Department also put up the monster antennae on the roof of Belk for the Club’s use. These antennae can be used for high-frequency bands, permitting long-distance operations. Besides its meetings twice a month, the Club sponsors other activities and is open to all students who demonstrate a serious interest in amateur radio. If members don’t have and would like to acquire an amateur license, the Club gives special classes on code and operating practice and operating theory to help them in their FCC examination.

The contest in which the Club participated recently was sponsored by the American Radio Relay League, the official representative of amateurs in their dealings with the FCC. The object of the contest was to contact as many stations outside of the U.S. as possible in a specified two-day period. One point was gained for each different station contacted and one point for each different country. The points accumulated by each contestant were fitted into a formula which recognized the difference in equipment, power, etc. between the contestants. When the results were tabulated, the Club was second in the country on one of the amateur bands with forty countries contacted; it was second in the state on a Morse Code band, and first in the state on a voice band, with a total of over seventy thousand points in all the various aspects of the contest. The Club contacted ninety-nine different countries during the contest. For good listening, then, tune in on your “ham” set to W4LMK, Davidson College Radio. You might recognize some of the announcers.

PIONEERING

Somewhere out there, beyond the realm of man’s present understanding, lies an idea. A concept. A truth. Gradually, as it comes under the concentration of disciplined minds, it will become clear, refined, mastered. This is the lonely art of pioneering. In the Bell System, pioneering often results in major breakthroughs. Planning the use of satellites as vehicles for world-wide communications is one. Another is the Optical Gas Maser, an invention which may allow a controlled beam of light to carry vast numbers of telephone calls, TV shows, and data messages. Breakthroughs like these will one day bring exciting new telephone and communications service to you. The responsibility of providing these services will be in the hands of the people who work for your local telephone company. Among them are the engineering, administrative, and operations personnel who make your telephone service possible.

FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1962

RADIO CLUB operators recently participated in a nationwide competition conducted by the American Radio Relay League. This civilian organization could join Army communications units in an event of national emergency. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

STOMACH ULCERS

Ailments range from stomach ulcers to athlete’s foot and related itching discomforts. A freshman was told several weeks ago that he had ulcers, and one sophomore’s ulcer trouble has undergone prognosis by nearly every member of his class. These honest ailments are less numerous by far than those psychosomatic ills which are usually caused by a vivid imagination or by that exhausted feeling gained from the long, bouncing ride back from “latties.”

A REAL PAIN

Dr. James B. Woods has alerted his intrepid staff to be on the lookout for anyone who tries to “dive” in the front door to escape the ever-reaching grasp of literacy. However, we must not neglect those undaunted scholars for whom library lights will burn an extra hour each night for the next two weeks. Some of their number have come down with genuine, authentic, fully accredited illnesses, guaranteed by the infirmary to react to exam frustrations with minor aches and pains. However, if you are one of those chosen few who have been honored with a real, bona fide pain in the neck, get your roommate to wheel you to the infirmary where you will be greeted with a smile and a cold stethoscope.

THE DAVIDSONIAN agrees to publish a fitting ‘In Memoriam’ to all those stalwart achievers who fall by the wayside because of night-blindness, perpetual insomnia, or that run-down, hollow feeling.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

The famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.
The finest in the world.

You can read this world-famous daily newspaper for the next six months for $5.50, just half the regular subscription rate. Get top news coverage. Enjoy special features. Clip for reference work. Send your order today. Enclose check or money order. Use coupon below.

The Christian Science Monitor
One Norway St., Boston 15, Mass.

Send your newspaper for the time checked.
[ ] 6 months $5.50 [ ] 1 year $11

Name
Address
City
Zone
State

*This special offer available ONLY to college students, faculty members, and college libraries.