FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1962

HIGHLIGHTS | SIDELIGHTS

BY BILL PRIDGEN

HOW THE MAGAZINES SEE US

Basketball magazines are sitting up and taking more notice of Davidson in pre-season ratings this year. All of them predict a much better season for the team, even though this year’s schedule is much tougher than last year’s, and several players have been picked to be standouts.

Team captain Bill Jarman was picked in one magazine to be honorable mention All-South, and in another he was selected as a pre-season All-Conference choice.

The biggest honor given any player was given to Fred Hetzel when one magazine chose him as one of the 10 best sophs in the nation, however, another magazine, Basketball Yearbook, 1963, failed to place him in the nation’s top 50 sophs. In most write-ups, he and 6’5” Don Davidson were picked as sophs to watch.

While the write-ups were good on Davidson, none were as optimistic as many loyal fans would have liked them to be. The best any of them could do was list us as “a dark horse” in the conference. All of these magazines picked at least three teams over us in the conference, West Virginia, Furman, and VMI. We'll have to show them.

According to the pre-season ranking of the magazines, Davidson will be meeting the number one (Cincinnati) and number two (Duke) in the nation. They will be meeting another team in the top 10 (West Virginia, No. 7) to make a grand total of three top 10 teams.

Even if we feel a little slighted by the basketball magazines, our opponents are giving us serious consideration. Duke’s coach, Vic Bubbas, when asked about the Davidson game said, “Don’t tell me about small colleges—I know what Davidson’s got.” “Bones” McKinney, Wake Forest’s preacher-coach, said, “If we point towards any one game it’ll be Davidson. Coach Lyles Alley down at Furman (No. 9 on the South) made a similar statement. “Lefty” Driesell is unmoved by these statements, he only says, “If they keep talking, we might get our boys fired up and start pointing to their games.

VPI OVER VMI ON THANKSGIVING

Even though the football season is over here, several crucial games remain to be played in the conference.

The Thanksgiving clash between conference leader VMI and a tough VPI squad should be the most exciting game of the year. If VMI can knock off The Citadel tomorrow (as they should), then the VMI-VPI contest will decide the conference champs.

We pick the season closing games as follows:

Nov. 17 —

Furman 20, Tampa 0.

Syracuse 28, Washington 7.

West Virginia 35, Citadel 17.

Nov. 22 (Thanksgiving) —

William & Mary 10, Richmond 6.

Syracuse 20, West Virginia 14.

VPI 28, VMI 14.

FINAL DAVIDSON FOOTBALL STATISTICS, 1962

RUSHING

Attempts Net Yards Avg.

Bob Cordle 56 243 4.34

Pat Fisher 40 163 4.08

Alex Gibbs 27 110 4.08

David Lopp 44 171 3.89

Joe Jones 48 166 3.46

Jim Fuller 32 104 3.25

Tom Worrall 28 90 3.99

PASSING

Attempts Completed Pct. Yards

Earl Cole 112 48 430 735

Kent Tucker 37 15 410 188

TOTAL OFFENSE

Plays Yards Avg.

Earl Cole 135 732 5.92

Kent Tucker 74 283 3.90

Bob Cordle 44 171 4.34

PASS RECEIVING

Caught Yards

Steve Heckard 21 519

Alex Gibbs 14 105

Bob Cordle 6 85

Steve Davidson 4 90

SCORING

TD’s PATS FG Total

Steve Heckard 5 0 0 30

Bill Dole 0 10 1 13

Joe Jones 2 0 0 12

David Lopp 2 0 0 12

Pat Fisher 1 0 0 6

Bob Cordle 1 0 0 6

Steve Davidson 1 0 0 6

Just Across the Street

Featuring Whitman’s Chocolates

Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

The famous OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.C.

Betas Nip Phi Delts Tuesday In Wrestling Tourney, 65-64

BY FORREST ROLES

Sports Staff Writer

In a race that went right down to the wire, the Betas edged out the Phi Delts 64-63 to take this year’s interfraternity wrestling title. In the last match of the evening, Phi Delt Bill Bankhead had to beat last year’s heavyweight champion Don Hall in the last match to pull it out, but he was pinned by the 250 lb. Hall in the second period.

The Beta team placed six men in the top three positions in their weight classes. Jimmy Lawton won the 123 pound title and Jerry Blackstock took the 177 class.

Tommy Hamilton and Jim Wallace took seconds with Steve Kash and Mike Owen taking thirds for the winners.

The Phi Delts were led by 167 lb. champ Eric Nichols, Stuart Robinson, Hoyle Rymer, John Stephens, and Bill Bankhead.

The result of the meet was so close that the Phi Delts were first thought to be the winners with 64 points to the Beta’s 59. A recheck of the score however showed the Betas actually had 64 points, enough to nose out the Phi Delts.

An interesting sidelight to the tourney was provided by Steve Arthur, defending 157 lb. champ and Mel Melton. Arthur and Melton dressed in outlandish costumes for their match and put on more of a comic show than a wrestling match. A coin was flipped to decide the match and Melton won, contrary to the original play. Melton later lost the championship to Jim Pepper.

Results of the matches were as follows:

123 lb. — Jimmy Lawton (Beta), Allen McSween (Phi Gam), and Jim Thompson (SPE).

130 lb. — Johnny Webb (Ind.), Stewart Robinson (Phi Delt), and Jamie Bryant (KS).

137 lb. — Johnny Powell (KS), Tom Hamilton (Beta), and Lee Fanning (Sigma Chi).

147 lb. — Lanier Burns (Sigma Chi), John Stephens (Phi Delt), and Steve Kash (Beta).

157 lb. — Jim Pepper (Sigma Chi), Mel Melton (Pi Kapp), and George McClelland (Phi Gam).

167 lb. — Eric Nichols (Phi Delt), Roy Baldwin (SPE), and George Pepper (Sigma Chi).

177 lb. — Jerry Blackstock (Beta), Hoyle Rymer (Phi Delt), and Jim Overton (Pika).

191 lb. — Bruce Dalton (KS), Jim Wallace (Beta), and Jim Rifkin (Phi Delt).

Hwt. — Don Hall (Phi Gam), Bill Bankhead (Phi Delt), and Mike Owen (Beta).

Season's Last Effort Falls Short; Wildcats Lose Thriller 28-20

Last Saturday Davidson's footballers closed out their 1962 season by going down to their fifth loss 20-28 in a game played on Richardson Field.

The victors, the Richmond Spiders, were able to come out on top in spite of the fact the ‘Cats weren't able to come up with the deciding factor on the team.

The Spiders opened the scoring in the first period but failed on the extra point attempt. Davidson was able to spring back with a long Earl Cole to Steve Heckard pass which set up the score, coming on a pass to Steve Davidson on a fourth down play. The half ended 7-6, the ‘Cats leading.

Davidson tallied twice again in the second half. A 55 yard run by Bob Cordle early in the half put the ‘Cats in front 14-6. Following two Spider TD's, Heckard scored his fifth TD of the year and the score was 20-20.

The Spiders were then able to come up with the deciding factor on the team.

In team statistics for the year Davidson generally shows up on the short end. Their opponents scored 103 points to 88 for the ‘Cats. They were also short on first downs 104 to 129, net rushing yardage, 1203 to 1631 yards, and total offense 2130 to 2405 yards. The ’Cats’, however, were able to outpass their opponents, largely through the Cole-to-Heckard combination.

The most outstanding individual performer was Heckard, a sophomore, who is leading all conference ends in several statistics, including total catches and total yardage. Six catches in Saturday's game put him in front of John Hilton from Richmond.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL STANDINGS

Conference Overall

W L T W L T

VMI 5 2 0 6 3 0

West Virginia 3 0 0 5 2 0

Williams & Mary 3 2 0 4 4 1

Richmond 2 2 0 3 3 0

VPI 2 2 0 5 4 0

Furman 2 3 0 4 5 0

The Citadel 2 3 0 3 5 0

George Washington 1 3 0 3 6 0

Davidson 1 4 0 2 7 0

GUARDING THE GOAL LINE, linebacker GENE FERRIS hits MEL RIDEOUT on the extra point play as the score currently 3

20-14. RIDEOUT didn’t make the point, and was injured on the play. BILL DOLE and RUSSELL WALLS move in to aid FERRIS.

SCORING HIS ONLY TOUCHDOWN of this season, speedy halfback BOB CORDLE scampers 55 yards down the sidelines in Saturday's game against Richmond. The play came in the second half and put the ‘Cats in front 14-6. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

IN MONDAY NIGHT’S ACTION, JOHN LITTLE starts on top of JIM RIFKIN, obscured by hair, in the 191-lb. class. RIFKIN, weighing 150 lbs., pinned LITTLE in the match.

Outweighed 40 lbs. by his opponents, he managed to take a third place in the tourney. (Staff Photo by Raynal)

Wildcats Lose Thriller 28-20

Betas Nip Phi Delts Tuesday In Wrestling Tourney, 65-64

BY FORREST ROLES

Sports Staff Writer

In a race that went right down to the wire, the Betas edged out the Phi Delts 64-63 to take this year’s interfraternity wrestling title. In the last match of the evening, Phi Delt Bill Bankhead had to beat last year’s heavyweight champion Don Hall in the last match to pull it out, but he was pinned by the 250 lb. Hall in the second period.

The Beta team placed six men in the top three positions in their weight classes. Jimmy Lawton won the 123 pound title and Jerry Blackstock took the 177 class.

Tommy Hamilton and Jim Wallace took seconds with Steve Kash and Mike Owen taking thirds for the winners.

The Phi Delts were led by 167 lb. champ Eric Nichols, Stuart Robinson, Hoyle Rymer, John Stephens, and Bill Bankhead.

The result of the meet was so close that the Phi Delts were first thought to be the winners with 64 points to the Beta’s 59. A recheck of the score however showed the Betas actually had 64 points, enough to nose out the Phi Delts.

An interesting sidelight to the tourney was provided by Steve Arthur, defending 157 lb. champ and Mel Melton. Arthur and Melton dressed in outlandish costumes for their match and put on more of a comic show than a wrestling match. A coin was flipped to decide the match and Melton won, contrary to the original play. Melton later lost the championship to Jim Pepper.

Results of the matches were as follows:

123 lb. — Jimmy Lawton (Beta), Allen McSween (Phi Gam), and Jim Thompson (SPE).

130 lb. — Johnny Webb (Ind.), Stewart Robinson (Phi Delt), and Jamie Bryant (KS).

137 lb. — Johnny Powell (KS), Tom Hamilton (Beta), and Lee Fanning (Sigma Chi).

147 lb. — Lanier Burns (Sigma Chi), John Stephens (Phi Delt), and Steve Kash (Beta).

157 lb. — Jim Pepper (Sigma Chi), Mel Melton (Pi Kapp), and George McClelland (Phi Gam).

167 lb. — Eric Nichols (Phi Delt), Roy Baldwin (SPE), and George Pepper (Sigma Chi).

177 lb. — Jerry Blackstock (Beta), Hoyle Rymer (Phi Delt), and Jim Overton (Pika).

191 lb. — Bruce Dalton (KS), Jim Wallace (Beta), and Jim Rifkin (Phi Delt).

Hwt. — Don Hall (Phi Gam), Bill Bankhead (Phi Delt), and Mike Owen (Beta).

Hoopsters Shape Up

BY RICK SMITH

Two weeks from today the 1962-63 edition of the Davidson College basketball team officially opens its season here when they face Erskine College. The following night the ’Cats travel to Durham to play the Duke Blue Devils, a team which is rated as one of the best in the country.

Coach Lefty Driesell is very optimistic about this year’s team. He said, “We have a lot of potential, but potential doesn’t win games. We have to work hard and play hard to win.”

Duke is not the only tough opposition the Wildcats will face. On December 22 they go against defending national champion Cincinnati in Cincinnati. West Virginia, Princeton, and other teams of this caliber are also on the schedule.

Coach Driesell said the team must continue to work on defense as they have been doing since they began practice. “We can score on anybody,” he commented, “but we need a good defense to be great.”

In a recent game-type scrimmage the ’Cats demonstrated their shooting ability by hitting on 52% of their shots and rolling up a total of 98 points.

Driesell said, “It’s hard to tell how good you are until you play someone else.”

Coach Heath Whittle called Martin “about the most consistent runner I've ever coached. I can always count on him to be up front.”

Sterling Martin closes out four years of cross country for Davidson on Monday when he runs in the Southern Conference Cross-Country Championship meet at Charleston, S.C.

The Davidson cross-country team wound up with a 4-1 record this year, losing only to VPI. Whittle thinks it will be “very close” between West Virginia and VMI for the championship.

As for individual honors, Whittle said, “Nobody can touch Dennis Patterson of Furman—he should be way out front.” And Davidson’s Martin? “He has a chance of fourth or fifth,” stated Whittle.

Trophies will go to the first twenty-five finishers in the conference meet. A trophy will also go to the best team, with a plaque being awarded the runner-up team. The coaches will select eight boys to the All-Conference team after the meet, basing their selections on the season's record and the meet results.

“If we show the same determination in the conference meet we should place well up there!” exclaimed Whittle.

Davidson’s winning soccer team met Emory’s booters at 2:30 this afternoon on the local field in an attempt to achieve the best won-lost record in Davidson’s soccer history.

A Wildcat win today would give the Davidson booters a 6-2 record. The team has defeated Belmont 8-1, Pfeiffer 3-2, Guilford 3-2, Appalachian 1-0, and North Carolina State 3-1. A 5-0 shutout at the hands of Duke and a 7-3 trouncing by UNC are the only blemishes on the ’Cats’ record.

Last year the Davidson team journeyed to Atlanta and defeated Emory 4-3 in an overtime. This year’s Emory team has defeated two of Davidson's foes, Belmont and Pfeiffer.

Going into today's game, junior center-forward Fred Schoen led the Wildcat scoring with 8 goals and needed only one more to tie the school individual season record of 9.

Schoen and Jan Brakel, who began his playing in The Netherlands, are called by Coach Harry Fogleman, “this year’s outstanding linemen.”

Fogleman also singles out Walter Eckman and team captain Charlie Sasser as top performers on the line.

Sophomore Howard Morris is the most improved player on the team,” relates Fogleman. “This is the first year he has played the game and he really has looked good at fullback.”

“Both of our goalies, Lyman Dillon and Jim Bulla, were also playing for the first time this year,” continues Fogleman. “This hasn’t helped a lot because experience really is vital at the goalie position.”

Graduation will deal a hard blow to the team. Wing Sasser, halfbacks McQueen and Smith, and fullback Meldrum, all seniors, played their final game for Davidson today.

All is not gloom for Fogleman, however. “We have several outstanding freshmen in school and they ought to be a big help next year,” he happily remarked.

Swimmers Grunt Into Shape

BY FORREST ROLES

Sports Staff Writer

Since the beginning of the school year, the grunts, groans, and splashes of Coach Dwight Shoe’s swimming team, who are working to get in shape. Their first meet is with Appalachian on December 4.

According to Coach Shoe, this year’s tankmen are going to be hurt by the graduation of Stephan Young and Tom French. “How well we do this season depends on how well the sophomores fill the vacancies left by graduation last year.”

Coach Shoe is depending heavily on Jack Hollenbeck, whom he tabs “the best swimmer we have,” in the sprints and the butterfly, and diver Dick Fromm to score well for him this year. Lettermen Carter Mebane and Beles Wests should give additional support.

Shoe is enthusiastic about his freshman team. “They tell me there are some good looking swimmers in it,” he said. He mentioned Joe Hensley, Randy Jones, George Gibbons, and Mike Smith as especially impressive.

Swimming Tourney Set After Holidays

The annual interfraternity swimming meet will be held on the Wednesday and Thursday nights following Thanksgiving holidays.

According to Steve Clark, president of the Interfraternity Athletic Council, Wednesday night will be devoted to time trials and eliminations.

The finals will be held on Thursday night among the top swimmers who turned in the four best times on Wednesday.

The Phi Delts are the tourney defending champs.