FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1962 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sideline Comments By STEVE CLARK

JARMAN MAKES ALL-STATE

MORE CONGRATULATIONS to Bill Jarman, who was recently named to the Greensboro Daily News’ collegiate All-State squad. Jarman, who also made second team All-Southern Conference this season, was one of ten outstanding college players in North Carolina named to the squad, which did not specify a first or second team. This year’s All-State team, which is chosen annually by the Daily News’ sports staff, is indeed a real dream team, which, according to Sports Editor Smith Barrier, “would challenge any collegiate All-Star aggregation in the country, no holds barred.”

The main reason for the above statement is, of course, big Len Chappell, the All-American giant from Wake Forest. Another All-American, Duke’s Art Heyman, was also named to the squad. Incidentally, Jarman outscored both of these men when the Wildcats met them in the first two games of the season. Other players named to the team include Larry Brown, North Carolina guard; Bobby Frank, Pfeiffer center; Mel Gibson, Western Carolina guard; Russ Marvel, N. C. State center; Jeff Mullins, Duke forward; Billy Packer, Wake Forest guard; and Dave Wiedeman, Wake Forest guard.

During the season these ten cagers all averaged in the double figures. The average All-Stater scored 19.8 points a game, collected 9.8 rebounds per contest, hit 48.9 percent from the floor, and sank 70.4 percent of his free throws. In each of these departments Jarman was above average. The big redhead junior averaged 21.4 points, and 11.3 rebounds, and hit 51.4 percent and 73.4 percent from the floor and free throw line, respectively.

The top performance in each of the major departments includes the following: scoring average — Chappell, 30.7 (fourth best in the nation); rebound average — Frank, 18.1; field goal percentage — Gibson, 58.1; and free throw percentage — Packer, 80.0. The team’s average height is 6-3 with Chappell and Frank being the big men at 6-8, while Packer is the smallest at 5-9. Once again Jarman, who stands 6-5, is above average.

The team has experience as only Mullins is a sophomore. In addition to him, Chappell, Frank, Marvel, and Packer are seniors, while Brown, Gibson, Heyman, Jarman, and Wiedeman are juniors. Only three home-grown boys are on the team—Jarman (Gastonia), Frank (Greensboro), and Gibson (Rockingham). The other seven come from Pennsylvania (Chappell), and Packer, New York (Heyman and Brown), Kentucky (Mullins), Indiana (Marvel), and New Jersey (Wiedeman).

AND THEY SHALL BEAT THEIR CANNON BALLS INTO BOWLING BALLS

EVER WONDER what the ROTC instructor and staff members do with their spare time? Do they shine their shoes, polish their brass, clean their rifles, etc.? Sometimes, of course, but most of the time you can find them at the luxurious AMF Bowling Lanes in Concord. On Wednesday nights several men from our ROTC department, including Col. Wheaton, Capt. Hampton, Sgt. Crump, Sgt. MacCurry, and Sgt. Gregory, participate as a team in a bowling league in Concord. And they’re pretty successful. They won the first half championship this season, and are now vying for the second half crown. The league champion will be decided by a playoff between the first and second half winners. Pacing the attack of the Davidson military experts, who are defending champions of the league, is Sgt. Gregory. Gregory, who usually bowls about 170, once rolled a score of 254.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

BASEBALL, GOLF, TENNIS, AND TRACK BEGIN

Spring Two Cheerleaders To Be Elected Soon

Under a new procedure adopted by the Student Council, any student wishing to become a candidate for cheerleader must file his name with Joe Martin, head cheerleader, by Wednesday, March 21. Martin indicated that at least two positions will be open for next year. The new procedure provides that election will be permanent, and that vacancies created by graduation and drop-outs will be filled by student body elections. In a separate vote, the Council ruled that service during 1961-62 should be considered equal to permanent election. The number of cheerleaders will be maintained at ten, with each class being represented by at least two men. To comply with this rule, one of the men to be elected this year must be a rising junior. A slate of candidates recommended by the cheerleaders will be presented to the student body after spring holidays. This group will be chosen from those men who file with Martin by Wednesday. Martin's room is 403 East.

GEORGE SLEDGE (center), ATO playmaker, hooks over the outstretched hands of Sigma Nu ARTHUR CLARK in I-F basketball action. Sigma Nus KERRY MAULDIN (left) and LEWIS PARKER (background) look on. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Five School Records Fall As ‘Catfish Finish Fourth

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD Davidsonian Sports Writer

Coming back strong on the final day of the meet, the Davidson College swimming team jumped from last place to fourth in the Southern Conference meet last weekend in Charleston, S. C. VMI swept the three-day event by edging out VPI by two points, 98-96. The Citadel placed third, Davidson fourth, William & Mary fifth, and West Virginia sixth.

Although the ‘Catfish did not have any first place finishes, five Davidson school records were broken. Placing second in the 400-yd. medley relay, the Davidson team of Tom French, Stefan Young, Jack Hollenbeck, and Barry Branch broke the existing school record by four seconds with a time of 4:07.8. In the 50-yd. freestyle, Hollenbeck, who finished fourth, and Branch, who placed fifth, both felled the school mark of 24.1 with times of 23.5 and 23.6, respectively. Branch also broke the school record in the 100-yd. freestyle by placing fourth with a time of 52.9 seconds. French broke the school record in the 200-yd. backstroke by two seconds with a time of 2:17.9 while placing fourth in the event. Qualifying second in the 100-yd. backstroke with a swift time of 1:00.2, French dropped to fourth in the finals. In the 100-yd. butterfly, Hollenbeck placed third with a time of 59.7, bettering the efforts of any previous Davidson swimmer. Young placed fourth in the 100-yd. breaststroke with a time of 1:10.2, and was just touched out by the VMI breaststroke for third. The freestyle relay, consisting of Carter, Mebane, Bill Ambrose, Mike Weeks, and Bill Whittington, took a fourth place.

Looking forward to tomorrow’s opening game with STEVENS and CAPTAIN HARRY CLINE. Action will begin at 1:30 p.m. on the local diamond. The game will be the first of a 28-game schedule for this year’s baseball squad, which is co-favored with West Virginia to win the Southern Conference. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Fast breaking at every opportunity, the talented Kappa Sig cagers set what is probably an I-F basketball record Wednesday afternoon by pouring in 105 points against the Sig Eps in a convincing 105-29 win. With eleven straight wins under their belts, the Sigs have mathematically clinched this year’s I-F cage championship and need only to beat the Sigma Chis to complete an undefeated season. Meanwhile the Phi Gams virtually clinched second place this week.with wins over the Sig Eps and Pikas. This week's LF checklist includes the following:

MONDAY
The Phi Gams, playing without their usual first five, clipped the Sig Eps, 60-41. Dickie Fulp paced the Fiji attack with 19 points, while freshman John Lehman scored 12 for the Sig Eps. Toney McMillan scored 20 and Ed Hines 16 as the SAE's edged the Sigma Chis, 49-47. The ATO's clobbered the Sigma Nus, 63-23, behind Paul Duvall’s 24 points. Freshman Arthur Clark had 13 for the Nus.

TUESDAY
The Kappa Sigs pulled away from the Phi Delts in the second half behind the guard play of Johnny Rogers (22) and Jimmy Hendrix (10) for a 52-36 win. Paced by Tommy Hamilton’s 14 points, the Betas' fourth-quarter rally fell short as they fell to the KA’s, 42-39. Rick Smyre and John Sharp led the KA’s with 11 each. Freshman Tommy James’ field goal in the second overtime gave the Sigma Chis a 59-58 win over the ATO’s. Sigma Chi Paul Reichardt led all scorers with 21, while ATO Mike Payne had 16. Larry Leafer scored 13 points and led the Phi Gams over an inspired Pika team, 49-43.

I-F CAGE STANDINGS (not including yesterday’s games)
Kappa Sigs 11 0
Phi Gams 8 3
ATO’s 7 4
Independents 7 4
Sigma Chis 7 4
SAE’s 5 5
Betas 4 7
Pikas 4 7
Sig Eps 1 10
Sigma Nus 0 12

TOP TEN I-F SCORERS
Mark Dunn, Ind. 18.2
David Johnson, Ind. 18.0
Paul Duvall, ATO 17.5
Johnny Rogers, KS 17.3
Jim Fuller, KS 16.2
Ed Hines, SAE 15.0
Earl Cole, Ind. 14.6
Tommy Hamilton, Beta 14.3
George Sledge, ATO 14.0
Arthur Clark, SN 13.0

K Sigs Cop I-F Crown

Schedule Swings

Sluggers Entertain Pfeiffer Tomorrow
The baseball team opens its 1962 slate tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 in a home stand against Pfeiffer College. The game, which will be the first of 28 for this year's nine, will be an exhibition-type contest since both Coach Tom Stevens and the Pfeiffer coach plan to use three or four pitchers and to substitute freely.

GOOD GAME
However, Stevens did predict a good game. Said the Wildcat mentor, “We've always had good games with them. Last year we split two games with them—they won one by 5-4, and we won the other by 5-4.” Experienced and confident, the Wildcats are out to better last year’s 10-13 overall record and 6-6 conference mark. With every regular returning except third baseman Russ Cotton, plus some excellent sophomore help, the 'Cats have been ranked as high as co-favorite with West Virginia in the Southern Conference.

Spearheading the Davidson attack is Captain Harry Cline, senior catcher, who batted .310 a year ago and who was named to the second team All-Conference for the second straight year. In addition to Cline, Rick Smyre and Jerry Shelton are being counted on for strength at the plate. Smyre batted .364 for last year’s freshman team, and Shelton hit .310 in varsity action.

HARRIS GETS NOD
Stevens plans to start Tom Harris, a senior southpaw, on the mound. Harris, who had a 2-2 record and a 2.16 earned run average last season, will probably hurl about three innings before turning over the mound chores to Tommy Hamilton, Earl Cole, and Graham Showalter.

BY STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

Davidson College’s spring sports schedule swings into action tomorrow afternoon, and picks up steam next week as the baseball, golf, tennis, and track teams begin their respective seasons.

The probable starting lineup for tomorrow's contest is as follows:
P—Tom Harris
C—Harry Cline
1B—Rick Smyre
2B—Tommy Tuttle
3B—Tommy Whitley, Dave Schade, or Graham Showalter
SS—Harry Smith
LF—Ed Hines
CF—Tommy Hamilton
RF—Jerry Shelton

INEXPERIENCE
On Monday afternoon the golf team begins its schedule by traveling to High Point College for a match. Coach Tom Scott finds himself lacking in experience this year as Verner Stanley, John Crute, Sanders Dallas, John Keiter, and Claude Finney have all departed. Only juniors Frank McPhillips, Haywood Evans, and Mims Rogers saw action on the links last year. These three are slated for positions one, two, and three, respectively, while Frank Tulloch and Tommy Neal are being groomed for four and five. The sixth man will be chosen from several aspirants including Gene Wells, Vance Taylor, Freddy Harrison, Ottis Ballenger, and Bob Bost.

DEBUT
This coming Tuesday afternoon Harry Fogleman will make his debut as head tennis coach as he pits his forces against Pfeiffer on the local courts. Top tennis prospects include seniors Andy Sherrill, Bob Hartness, Stefan Young, and Bobby Snead; juniors Bobby Austell, and Bill Backlund; and sophomores Gene McCutchen, Johnny Ariail, and Joe Wolfe. On Thursday the netters meet Michigan State on the local courts. The track team, under the expert guidance of Coach Heath Whittle, does not see action until March 28, when the Catawba cindermen invade.

Keith Fraser turned in his best performance with 25 points.

WEDNESDAY
Haynes Kelly fired in 27 points in the KA’s 52-31 victory over the Sigma Nus. Johnny Rogers hit a season-high 36 points and Durwood Settles contributed 23 as five Kappa Sigs hit in double figures in their 105-29 win over the Sig Eps. Trailing by four at the half, the Phi Delts broke loose in the fourth quarter for a 39-27 win over the Betas. Dan Calhoun’s 17 paced the Delts, while Steve Clark hit 10 for the Betas.

Gridders Begin Spring Workouts
Coach Bill Dole greeted 34 gridders Wednesday afternoon at the first spring football workout. In addition, seven prospects for the 1962 squad were in lab and three others were excused for injuries, spring sports, etc. Dole also announced that Alex Gibbs, the ‘Cats leading ground gainer this past fall, is recovering satisfactorily from a knee operation. Gibbs, who will miss spring practice, is to be shifted to quarterback next fall.

How would you forecast your next few years? Today, the young man planning his life realizes as never before that in today's world his own future is tied inevitably to America’s future. How can he serve both? Many college graduates, both men and women, are finding a rewarding answer on the Aerospace Team — as officers in the U.S. Air Force. Here is a career that is compelling in its challenge and opportunity. And it is a way of life that holds the unsurpassed satisfaction that comes with service to country.

As a college student, how can you become an Air Force Officer? If you have not completed Air Force ROTC, Officer Training School provides an opportunity to qualify for a variety of vitally needed jobs in the Aerospace Age. A graduate of this three-month course earns a commission as a second lieutenant. Also open to college men is the Navigator Training program. For full information — including the chance to obtain graduate degrees at Air Force expense — see the Air Force Selection Team when it visits your college. Or write: Officer Career Information, Dept. SC23, Box 805, New York 1, N.Y.

U.S. Air Force: a way of life.