POLLEY REVIEWS BOOK-OF-THE-YEAR (See Page Two) 

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

‘CATS HOST YALE TOMORROW (See Page Three)

VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1962 NUMBER TWENTY-ONE

DANA AND SCHOLARS — Philanthropist Charles A. Dana, the man who discovered small colleges, is shown with Dana Scholars Stefan Young and David Suter at the banquet given in his honor Tuesday night. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Paper Sets Golden Special

In commemoration of its Golden Anniversary, THE DAVIDSONIAN will publish a special eight-page edition on Thursday, April 5. As part of the celebration, Dr. Frank Wilson Price, editor of the first DAVIDSONIAN, will be the guest speaker in chapel that morning.

The first edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN was published on April 1, 1914. Although the newspaper is not 50 years old, this year's is the 50th volume, since one volume was published during the summer months of 1944.

The commemorative edition, the last issue to be published by the present staff, will present the evolution of various campus issues, as well as outstanding news stories over the years. A copy of the special DAVIDSONIAN will be sent to all alumni of the college by the Alumni Office.

On Thursday evening, the annual DAVIDSONIAN banquet for staff and writers will be held in the College Union. Dr. Price, who is currently on the faculty at Mary Baldwin College, will be on the campus all day Thursday as guest of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

A former missionary to China, Price graduated from Davidson in 1915, having been a member of Sigma Upsilon and Phi Beta Kappa as well as newspaper editor. After his graduation, Price became principal of Hillcrest School in Nanking, China. In 1919, he returned to America, where he was ordained by the Presbyterian Church. He has since spent a number of years in China and the Far East as missionary, teacher, and linguist. Price has written a number of messages, as well as other books.

Dana Visits Campus, Dines With Students

Monday night, Charles A. Dana, Connecticut automobile parts manufacturer and educational philanthropist, arrived on the Davidson campus this past Tuesday afternoon. Mr. Dana was accompanied on his two-day visit by Dr. Henry Littlefield, Vice President of the Dana Foundation and also Vice President of the University of Bridgeport.

Tuesday evening, at a banquet held in his honor in the Morrison Room of the College Union, Mr. Dana was presented with a book of letters by the Dana scholars. Each scholar contributed to the book a personal letter telling of his present accomplishments in college and of his plans for the future.

After spending the night in the home of President Martin, Mr. Dana used much of Wednesday to confer with presidents of other colleges about Dana programs of aid. He also met many of the faculty members who have come to Davidson in the past year, and Wednesday afternoon he was the guest of the Duke Power Company in inspecting the newly constructed Cowan’s Dam and Lake Norman. After spending Wednesday night and Thursday morning at Davidson, Mr. Dana departed at about 2:00 o'clock in the afternoon.

Panel Confronts Bennett Monday

The Book-of-the-Year program will get underway Monday, March 26, as Dr. John C. Bennett arrives on the Davidson campus to present his book Christianity and Communism Today.

There will be a banquet at 6 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union followed by a panel discussion in Chambers auditorium at 8 p.m. Panel members will be Mr. David Gillespie, Associate Editor of the CHARLOTTE OBSERVER; Mr. John P. Kennedy, a prominent Charlotte lawyer and currently a Democratic candidate for Congress from this district; Professor Edmund T. Weisant, professor of Russian at Queens College who has traveled extensively in Russia; and Dr. John Wilson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Kannapolis. Dr. Max Polley will be the moderator of the discussion.

PROLIFIC WRITER

Dr. Bennett, who is Dean of the Faculty at Union Seminary in New York City, is the author of many books dealing with Christian responsibility toward society in relation to such things as politics, nuclear testing, and the threat of war. One of his better-known books is Christians and the State. His most recent book, which concerns thermonuclear testing and the threat of nuclear war, is Nuclear Weapons and the Conflict of Conscience. Dr. Bennett is one of the editors of the weekly magazine Christianity and Crisis. He has also recently had articles published in Esquire and Saturday Review of Literature.

WILL VISIT CLASSES

On Tuesday morning Bennett will visit several classes and will speak in assembly. Book-of-the-Year Chairman Lowery Reid announced that any professor who is interested in having Dr. Bennett visit his class should contact Dr. Staples. Reid also urged all students and faculty to read the book and come to the panel discussion Monday night. He stressed the fact that the book could be easily read in an evening but that the program Monday night would be of value to everyone whether he had read the book or not. Paperback copies of Christianity and Communism Today are on sale in the College Union for $1.25.

Student Council Sets Magazine Controls

The Student Council voted Wednesday night to create the Magazine Advisory Board for the student magazine. As proposed, the Board will be composed of the editor of the student magazine; two members elected by Sigma Upsilon, one of whom will be an underclassman; one member elected by Eumanean Literary Society; one member elected by Philanthropic Literary Society; a student appointed by the chairman of the Fine Arts Dept.; a student council member appointed by the president of the Student Council; and a faculty member appointed by the administration.

The Board, which will be composed of Business Manager R. A. Currie, Professors W. P. Cumming and Charles Lloyd, R. D. Jackson, David Jordan, and George Trask, makes specific allowances for an administration-appointed faculty member whose duty will be to maintain the same general spirit and aims of the magazine.

EDITOR ONLY CENSOR

The representatives of students and faculty on the Board will serve as advisors to the editor, who will be the only censor of the magazine. The Board will also be responsible for the financial aspects of the publication.

Arts Festival Stresses New Artists, Creations

BY CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The 15th annual Fine Arts Festival, beginning April 16 and continuing into May, will emphasize new artists and new works. Its theme will be “exploratory,” and will most outstanding piece of creative writing submitted by a Davidson student. Poet X. J. Kennedy will also be at Davidson April 26. Kennedy, who recently won the Lamont Poetry Award for the excellence of his first effort, will talk in the Morrison Room as part of the Poet Circuit program.

James Bumgardner, a pictor- (Continued On Page Four)

Guy Owen

SPUD STEWART

Student Elections End Today

Student interest in elections decreased this week as voters concluded 1962 balloting with the election of Student Council members and freshman adviser. Only one contest had to be decided today. Will Jackson with 111 votes and John Barrow with 97 defeated Fred Sackett, 73, and will represent rising seniors on the Student Council.

Dillard Defeats Hagen In Newspaper Election

BY ROGER DAVID
Davidsonian Staff Writer

With a rather low 38% turnout, David Dillard was elected editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN for 1962-63 over Bill Hagen. Dillard received 211 votes to Hagen’s 169.

Dillard, who is a French major, has served as secretary of Eumanean Literary Society, is in the Male Chorus, and is a C. R. Harding Scholar. He draws his experience by having served as editor of his high school newspaper and as a news and feature reporter for THE DAVIDSONIAN his freshman and sophomore years.

COUNCIL MEETS

There was to have been a third candidate, Zach Smith. A group of students attempted to place him in nomination for the newspaper post, but the Publications Board, which is constitutionally empowered to determine all nominations for editorships, had considered Smith and declined to place him on the ballot.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

him before the Staff Writer of the Student Body voting to fill the editor’s chair of THE by a 147-vote margin over 258 votes to Hagen’s 111. fairness, and a new honesty in approaching complex issues.” His staff will take over on Friday, April 13, with the publication of its first issue. Between now and then, he will work on appointing the new staff. The week's voting concludes this year’s elections, except for the election of the editor of the Scripts and Pranks, which will be held in the early Spring.

Faculty Judgment Reinstates Senior

In a specially called meeting Wednesday afternoon the faculty overruled the Executive Committee’s decision to suspend a senior from school for the rest of the semester. After three runoffs this week, Spud Stewart was elected freshman adviser, defeating Bill Jarman by 30 votes. Stewart, who will now lead freshman orientation next fall, received 63 votes to Jarman’s 33. The rising senior class elected its representatives to Student Council on the first ballot Tuesday. The winners were John Killian, Larry Leafer, Ken Kelley, Lawrence Kimbrough, and Paul Duvall. Killian, who led the group with 96 votes, will serve as president of the class, Leafer, who had 77 votes, will be the vice-president, and Kelley, 74, (Continued On Page Four).

The council requested the Publications Board to reconsider his candidacy. The board met Monday and approved him as a candidate, against the recommendation of THE DAVIDSONIAN editorial staff. Once his name was on the ballot, the voting was postponed from Monday until Thursday to allow him to prepare a platform.

SMITH WITHDREW

However, due to a lack of interest, Smith withdrew from the race Tuesday afternoon. The vote was still held Thursday. Dillard will serve in his new capacity during the fiftieth anniversary of THE DAVIDSONIAN. In his platform, he expressed a desire for “new objectivity in THE DAVIDSONIAN, a new fairness, and a new honesty in approaching complex issues.” His staff will take over on Friday, April 13, with the publication of its first issue. Between now and then, he will work on appointing the new staff.

The faculty, during a two-hour meeting, changed the ruling to campusing, with certain other restrictions. The student will remain in school but will have no cuts and must sever all fraternity associations. The use of a car will also be prohibited. The Executive Committee originally reviewed the case involving the ‘conduct unbecoming a Davidson gentleman’ phrase and made the dismissal decision. The student then exercised his right of appealing the judgment to the full faculty. The action of the faculty was one of the few times an Executive Committee ruling has been changed. Barring unforeseen circumstances, the student will graduate with his class.

April concert weekend. The Four Preps, Capitol recording artists, will highlight the April 14 IFC concert from 8-10 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. The group consisting of a high tenor, lead tenor, a baritone, and a bass have had many hit recordings including “26 Miles,” “Big Man,” and “Down By The Station.” All were written by members of the group. They appeared in the movie “Gidget” and have performed on the Lawrence Welk, Dick Clark, Ed Sullivan, and Tennessee Ernie Ford television shows.

Waugh announced that the Clemson Jungleers have been contracted to perform at the Spring Frolics semi-formal dance Friday night, April 27. The popular South Carolina dance band will also back up several performances by recording star Dakota Staton. The Saturday afternoon concert features Lester Flatt, Earl Scruggs, and the Foggy Mountain Boys. Scruggs is considered a master of the five-string banjo and Flatt is the lead singer and guitar picker. They are backed by the fiddle, mandolin, bass, and guitar.

IFC Announces Concert, Frolics Plans, Revisions

Bob Waugh, IFC mentor, has announced the council’s action in adopting proposed constitution revisions and the line-up of attractions for Spring Frolics and the April concert weekend. The council has sent a letter of protest to Willard Alexander, Inc., talent agent for Josh White against the general handling of the March 11 concert by White. White was forced to delay a scheduled Saturday night performance until the following day because of inadequate transportation facilities. A copy of the letter has been sent to a New York agency which represents college unions and handles problems of unfulfilled contract obligations.

The Body; a faculty member selected later by the Board; and a faculty member appointed by the President of the College, who will act as chairman of the Board.

BOARD'S PURPOSE

The purpose of the Board shall be to determine and continuously maintain the general aims of the student magazine. It will assist the editor in achieving these aims by advising him and by discovering and channeling to him material for his editorial consideration. The Board will choose candidates for editorship of the student magazine from recommendations submitted by the staff of the magazine and report them to the Publications Board for final consideration. The Board will meet at least four times each year, including meetings after selection staff before the budget of the magazine is drawn up. All student organizations are to solicit materials from their organizations for submission to the editor. However, only the editor will have the power of censorship. At present, the Advisory Board is only a ruling to allow the Publications Board to begin the selection of candidates for editor. This ruling will become a Student Council by-law at a later date, following further discussion. Other discussion at the Student Council meeting centered around the conduct of the present elections, especially the means of ballot distribution.

SPRING RECESS

Spring recess begins officially at 4:30 on Friday, March 30 and ends at 8:20 on April 5. Double cuts will be in effect on March 29 and 30, and on April 5 and 6.

Two films will be shown “to explore the potential artistry in film making,” Purcell stated. “Hiroshima, Mon Amour,” contributed by the Union Film Committee, will be shown April 11 and 12. On a date still undetermined, Dave Simpson will present his own experimental film. Dr. Grier Williams, Senet: Prof. David Richey, piano; and Mrs. Elaine Richey, violin, will present a recital in Hodson Hall April 24. Mrs. Richey, who won the Naumburg Award two years ago (when it had no money value), will play a piece for violin written by her husband. Prof. Richey will play two of his own compositions and three written by senior Bill Pruitt.

Young author Guy Owen (Season of Fear), who taught English at Davidson between 1949 and 1952, will be on campus April 24-27 for informal talks with students. Owen will also deliver the presentation address in chapel April 26 for the Vereen Bell Award. The award is given annually for the best creative writing. Dr. Guy Owen, associate professor of English at Stetson University, will speak at the April 26 presentation of the Vereen Bell Award for Creative Writing. A former member of the Davidson English Department, Owen is the founder and editor of the poetry magazine Impetus as well as the author of numerous short stories, the first of which appeared in the Carolina Quarterly. His first novel, Season of Fear, published by Random House in September 1960, has been well received by the critics and recommended by the Book-of-the-Month Club. Owen is absent on leave this year from Stetson living on a farm near North Wilkesboro where he continues to write. While at Davidson he is scheduled to speak to the members of English 142 (creative writing). Owen, who holds BA, MA, and PhD degrees from the University of North Carolina, joined the Davidson faculty as an instructor in 1949, and taught for four years. After serving on the Elon faculty, he joined the English Department of Stetson where he teaches both undergraduate and graduate courses in English and American Literature.

IFC voted 10-2 Monday night in favor of revising its constitution. The revisions gave the fraternity presidents a non-voting seat on the council with voting rights in the absence of his fraternity’s representative. With this action, the IFC becomes the sole interfraternity body and is responsible for liaison between the fraternities and the administration. All judicial action will be reported to the administration's Fraternity Liaison Officer. Waugh also announced that IFC elections will take place April 9, and that the council plans to issue a newsletter containing features from all fraternities April 14. The initial idea, presented by Sigma Nu President Bob Phillips, includes the formation of six committees: Social, Scholarship, Publicity, Housing, Rush, and Investigations. The primary objective was a stronger organization.

THE FOUR PREPS