Che BAavidsontan

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Religion And Education

The essence of education is that it be religious—an education which inculcates duty and reverence. Duty arises from our potential
control over the course of events. Where attainable knowledge would have changed the issue, ignorance has the guilt of vice.
And the foundation of reverence is this perception, that the present holds within itself the complete sum of existence, backwards
and forwards, the whole amplitude of time, which is eternity.

In the history of education, the most striking phenomenon is that schools of learning, which at one epoch are alive
with a ferment of genius, in a succeeding generation exhibit mere pedantry and routine. The reason is, that they are
overladen with inert ideas. Education with inert ideas is not only useless: it is, above all things, harmful—Corruptio optimi, pessima.
Except at rare intervals of intellectual ferment, education in the past has been radically infected with inert ideas. Every intellectual
revolution which has ever stirred humanity into greatness has been a passionate protest against inert ideas. Then, alas, with pathetic
ignorance of human psychology, it has proceeded by some educational scheme to bind humanity afresh with inert ideas of its
own fashioning.

The rumbles, ramblings and hard labor of reform in Davidson’s curriculum have emanated this spring from faculty and administration offices.
The history of these reforms is that of all decisive reform here: “Wait and see. If it works somewhere else,
we'll try it.” Regardless of histories, we are happy about the new Humanities course, and the general trend toward seminar
and tutorial work at the upperclass level.

But curriculum reform is not by any means the whole story in Davidson's long-needed battle against inert ideas, methods, and
policies. Two commencements ago, a possibly over-frank and misunderstood valedictorian said, in part: “We have too seldom encountered here the
liberating spirit of education and vibrant, acted Christian faith. We should depart having either accepted or rejected the search for
Truth and commitment to the Christian God. We do depart having accepted or rejected neither; we depart without the knowledge
of what search and commitment are.”

A liberating spirit of education and an acted, uniquely individual Faith will result from a profound change in attitude and
approach—a change much more subtle than any (Prof. Alfred North Whitehead in THE AIMS OF EDUCATION, 1916) heralded revolution in
course offerings. It involves such ambiguities as Vespers and assembly requirements, these considered in the context of the pressing question:
what is to be the nature of a purportedly liberal arts college which also attempts to inculcate distinctly Christian attitudes.

We believe at least part of the problem at Davidson lies in our glaring lack of a well-defined, consistently applied
philosophy of education. Like most colleges, we also suffer from a false compartmentalization of knowledge, usually resulting not in the
dissemination of wisdom, but in a blind, almost idolatrous faith in one narrow area of knowledge. The Christian liberal arts
college can and should be far more experimental and prophetically creative than a state-supported school is free to be. We
need to face honestly questions of our ideals and means. It is inconsistent to encourage the asking of urgent, profound
questions about ultimate answers with one hand, while encouraging a blind, unquestioning pietism with the other. Just because we bear
its label, we need not reflect an ecclesiastical institution which is often more a reflection of “the system” than judge
of it, or prophet in it.

Another Step Forward?

Professor Robert Lord, in his recent chapel address, recommended that Davidson add to its curriculum a program allowing seniors to
do an independent research project. In other schools the program is set up somewhat like this. A few qualified rising
seniors are selected by the faculty to develop an independent research project their senior year, without having to meet any
other requirements. At the end of the year, they submit a report of their project.

This is a program worthy of a school that seeks to be the best liberal arts college for 1000 students
in the country. The new Humanities course to be offered next year is a step toward this goal. However, it
will take many such steps to reach such a goal. Furthermore, to remain at the top will be a continuous
struggle of constantly seeking progressive changes and improvements. This senior research program would be a valuable part of a complete
program of liberal arts education.

Perhaps for those students who find the “transfer process” in their regular classes boring or even for those students whose
needs the Honors program does not meet, this program will be the answer. It is likely that such students may
be potentially the best students, only needing something that is really meaningful and challenging to them to awaken their latent
ability.

The most significant aspect of a college education is a self-development that does not end with one’s four years of
college. The senior research program would provide a unique means of stimulating that self-development.

M. P.

Needed: Able Leadership

A succession of names, The Davidson College Magazine, The Chameleon, and Ye Yowl, gives only a slight indication of the
chaotic heritage of today’s Scripts ‘n’ Pranks. In one form or another the campus magazine has risen and fallen with
almost cyclic regularity. Student interest, or lack of interest, has played the major part in its history. In the past,
whenever the magazine had the popular support of the student body, it was good. Whenever it became “that magazine produced
by those students,” as it has in recent years, the outcome of each forthcoming issue was dubious.

The creation of a new advisory board is a good move toward tapping all the available sources of talent on
campus but it should not be looked on as a cure-all. Each freshman class demonstrates that we do have tremendous
potential, some of which will probably not be touched on by the advisory board’s efforts.

A renaissance of student advisory and identification with the magazine will only be brought about by effective leadership from within.
We feel that the importance of the present election of editor cannot be overemphasized. We hope that all students will
seriously consider the candidates and their statements and vote on the basis of ability and energy.

Next year will be the 100th anniversary of the existence of a college magazine at Davidson. We have a right
to expect a development of Scripts ‘n’ Pranks into something that can be compared to the best.

B. H.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editors
Bill Hagen
Mae Plaxico
Assistant Editor
Bill Ruth
Managing Editors
David Stitt
Jeff Wampler
Bill Pridgen
Assignments Editor
Bob Bethel
Sports Editor
Feature Editor
Greg Govan
Photographer

Wellford Defends

BY HARRISON WELLFORD
Former Honor Court Chairman

EDITOR'S NOTE: The views presented below are wholly those of the author and do not represent necessarily the official opinion
of the Honor Court.

“Justly to discriminate, firmly to establish, wisely to prescribe, and honestly to award—these are the true aims of criticism.” (Simms)

Contrary to what appears to be the popular conception at Davidson, I would propose that neither praise nor blame is
the object of true criticism. Criticism, instead, is meant as a standard of judging well, in terms suggested by the
quotation above. In some circles recently, there has been criticism of Honor Court procedure that I feel has not measured
up to this standard of judgment. I wish to make a reply that hopefully will clarify some of the matters
in question.

First, there has been criticism of the clandestine nature of Court procedure. It is asserted that the Court keeps its
mode of operation, particularly trials, too much within its own circle. I would answer first that the Court has published
in THE DAVIDSONIAN complete information about its procedural techniques and that this information was presented in chapel in the fall
of last year. Secondly, I would declare that the Court maintains closed trials for one reason only: to safeguard the
interest of the defendant by protecting him from needless embarrassment and the possibility of guilt by association in the eyes
of the student body from the very fact that he has been accused. Finally, in this atmosphere where the mere
submission of a letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN on any subject will earn one the churlish scorn of most Davidson peer
groups, it is too much to hope that a witness will be his normal uninhibited self or even agree to
appear at all if he must do so before the glowering glare of the student body.

There is also criticism that a defendant is generally not given a fair chance: that he does not have time
to prepare adequately for his defense, that he is not told about his opportunity of appeal, and that the general
attitude of the Court toward the defendant is somewhat analogous to the attitude of the spider to the fly. The
first member of this critical triad has some merit; the second and third members reflect more nearly a mindless attitude
of factless prejudice.

While I do feel that the defendant under our present trial framework is given time enough (at least five hours)
to prepare his defense, I would suggest that a change in Court procedure...

Mare Nostrum
By Adams

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Guilt Or Innocence: Chance Or Fact?

Dear Editor,

Three weeks ago the Honor Court met and dismissed a student from college for an alleged violation of the Honor
Code. Unlike most of the students who have been accused by the Court, this student refused to confess his guilt.
When the verdict was rendered the accused student was found guilty by the divided vote of eight to three. This
was the first time in over three years that a student was found guilty and dismissed from school by a
divided vote.

It is not my purpose to attempt to prove the guilt or innocence of the accused student. The divided vote,
however, seems to indicate the evidence in the case...was not conclusive proof of guilt. Yet, the decision of the Court
has been recorded on the permanent record of the individual involved, and it will haunt him for the rest of
his life. The point I would like to make is that some basic changes need to be made in the
trial procedure of the Honor Court. The system, as it now stands, is geared primarily to bring about the conviction
of a guilty student, not to acquit an innocent one. In the past, the Court’s criterion for guilt has usually
been a confession by the accused. The Court has usually been able to obtain the desired confession; but when it
has not, the Court has been confronted with problems which it has not always judiciously faced. Under the present system
at Davidson, only a two-thirds vote of the Court is required for conviction. By all standards of Anglo-Saxon jurisprudence, this
requirement invites miscarriages of justice. Our common law has traditionally held that a guilty verdict must be unanimous. By requiring
that all jurors be certain beyond all reasonable doubt of guilt, the chance of rendering injustice has been cut to
a minimum. Another weakness of the Honor Court is that students are generally ignorant of the procedures followed by the
Court. The Student Body Constitution, ARTICLE V, Section 5 states: “Trial procedure shall be determined by the Honor Court and
made available to the student body.” To the best of my knowledge, the Court has never made its trial procedure
available to the Student Body. At present, the usual period between the time an accused student is notified that he
must appear and the time of his appearance before the Court is about two hours. Whether innocent or guilty, when
confronted with the accusation of an honor violation, a student is often emotionally disturbed. Since little is known about Court
procedure, an innocent student in the best mental state probably could not collect his thoughts in two hours. In recording
testimony at the trial, the current procedure is for the Court Recorder, who is a member of the Court, to
prepare general minutes of the testimony. When this procedure is followed, the only record of testimony which exists is the
information which the Recorder feels is pertinent to the case. Space prohibits the discussion of several other apparent injustices in
Honor Court procedures. It should be evident, however, that some changes are needed. I would make these suggestions. First, the
Court should comply with the Constitution and make its procedure available to the Student Body. An accused student should be
allowed time to “gather his wits” and to adequately prepare his thoughts. The accused student should be told the specific
charges against him. At least twenty-four hours should be allowed for this preparation. It is possible that a guilty student
would leave campus without waiting for trial if he were given twenty-four hours to appear. Provisions should be made to
try such a student in absentia. Since a finding of guilty or not guilty often depends upon the actual words
of witnesses, verbatim testimony should be recorded. A mechanical recorder similar to that used in many town council meetings could
be used. Finally, the Court needs to establish a criterion, more rigorous than a two-thirds majority, for deciding guilt. These
are a few observations on court policy. It should be apparent that changes need to be made. I would suggest
that a committee of Student Council and Honor Court members be appointed to meet with the school’s legal counsel to
study and revise Honor Court procedures. Davidson College should never be guilty of crucifying an innocent student. Tom Patrick Luts

Dear Editor,

After I have heard of the speech to Davidson students by the president of the North Carolina John Birch Society,
I am much distressed. It was just such attitudes as this that in my home country of Estonia gave the
Communists the great opportunity to weaken the people's faith in our leaders and to use such Rightist groups to create
a panic among the people that led to the Communist overthrow. The John Birch people in our midst are doing
more bad than any supposed Communists they accuse. They should follow the example of John Birch himself, in fighting Communism
where it really is, instead of pointing at their own shadows. I urge all present John Birch Society members, as
well as all true anti-Communists, to support the international Estonian Freedom Fighters’ League (Vabadus Pojaleste Liits), through the League I
am organizing in Mecklenburg County. Write me in care of general delivery, Cornelius, North Carolina, where I am employed.

Julian Luts
Cornelius, N. C.

Court procedure to allow a more active defense counsel with ample time to prepare his case in conjunction with the
defendant would be appropriate. The second criticism, that the defendant is not informed about his right of appeal, betrays a
pure misstatement of fact. The advisor to the defendant is instructed to tell him of his right of appeal, and
the Chairman, at the end of the trial, specifically outlines the appeal procedure. As for the third criticism, it reflects,
I fear, a bigoted prejudice of destructive purpose. If the members of the Court can be criticized as to their
general attitude, it is because they have been too lenient, not too harsh. Perhaps the existing system in which the
members of the Court serve both as jury and questioner could be improved (let an active prosecutor complement an active
defense counsel with the remaining Court members sitting as a jury and interrogating the defendant only through questions submitted to
the prosecutor in recess), but the feeling of the members of the Court toward men on trial has always been
that of men caught between sympathy and system, facing the painful responsibility of a decision that will be best legally
and morally for the man involved. Finally, some mal-informed critics have fulminated against the unjust procedure of the Honor Court
in convicting a man of an honor offense by a majority vote. This criticism might have some merit except for
one obvious factor: the Honor Court requires a two-thirds vote of eligible members to convict a man of an honor
offense. This fact has been duly reported in THE DAVIDSONIAN. In deference to those with sincere questions in their minds
about the justice of this procedure, I would agree that there are cogent arguments to support a unanimous vote as
necessary for an honor conviction. Such a change, of course, would require a greater degree of maturity on behalf of
Court Members. I will not discuss criticism of the compulsory dismissal rule at this time, because the Court's request for
some modification of this rule is well known and because a proposal to this effect is now before the Faculty
for consideration. Contrary to the tone of some of my remarks above, I am not condemning criticism per se, for
indeed silence is sometimes the severest criticism. I only ask that those who do criticize base their barbs on a
knowledge of all the facts involved, and not on the dubious authority of Chambers’ hearsay or fraternity scuttlebutt.

Big Government Meets Big Steel
BY ROBERT MOORE

Last week Big Government landed the right combination and Big Steel went down for the full count in one of
the most important domestic developments in recent years. Big Steel swung its lofty haymaker, but the end result was not
the intended knockout. Instead, a stunned and angry adversary bounced off the ropes with the crowd on his side and
landed a volley of sharp, accurate jabs at its opponent's head. Big Steel staggered and sank sadly to its knees.

RAISES QUESTIONS
Two questions were raised by this encounter. How far can and should the President go in regulating big business? Can
the steel industry make its needed revolutionary changes without raising and continuing to raise its prices? Despite the great importance
of these questions, there is another question which claims its own right of significance. This is the question of why
the steel industry moved when it did. Among the suggested reasons are these: it felt it needed the price raise
and that it could raise prices when it did; and the industry prefers to generate its own capital for investment
in modernization and expansion rather than accept tax breaks from the government. However, none of these reasons properly answer the
peculiar timing of the steel industry's announcement. The announcement of the price increase was made while President Kennedy and Secretary
of Labor Goldberg were still rejoicing over the non-inflationary agreement which Steel and labor had signed less than a week
before. In addition to this, the announcement came on the day before a Presidential news conference.

TRAGIC FLAW
Both of these things hint strongly at what appears to have been the tragic flaw in the steel industry's move.
This was a lack of an intelligent political perspective. The industry failed completely in its timing and more important, it
underestimated its adversary. Chairman Blough of U.S. Steel said last week in answer to a reporter’s question, “Well, I think
you gentlemen can readily see that I do not know anything about politics.” This statement has the very hard ring
of truth. Perhaps the moral of this story is: To interrupt a rejoicing President and take away his reasons for
rejoicing is not advisable—especially when the President believes that the conditions which will produce a healthier economy for all of
the people are firmly founded.

Dear Editor,

THE DAVIDSONIAN just received certainly brought back memories of the past. I was a student when the paper was founded
and remember all the staff members. I was especially interested in the picture of Woodrow Wilson and President Martin, since
I took it. President Martin (Bill Joe) called me into his office on May 19 and told me that practically
all the students would go to Charlotte the next day for the celebration. But he also said that Woodrow Wilson
would pay a visit to the campus late on the afternoon of May 20, and asked if I would be
present to take some pictures. I told him I would be glad to stay. The students left for Charlotte next
morning without knowing that the President would visit the campus. It was late in the afternoon when he and Mrs.
Wilson arrived, so the pictures were not very good, but several newspapers used them anyway.

Walter A. Johnson, '16
Rome, Ga.
