‘CAT NINE ENDS SEASON (See Page Three) HENRY SHUE WRITES ON U.S. POLICY (See Page Two) The News and Editorial
Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1962 84 Candidates Await Graduation Exercises Trustees’ Spring
Meeting: Four Seniors Seek Valedictorian Honors Spotlight On Integration VOL. L NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN Davidson's 184 candidates for degrees face two-day
commencement Saturday and Sunday, May 26-27. If all goes well for the Wildcat seniors, there will be 59 Bachelor of
Science and 115 Bachelor of Arts degrees conferred. There are ten candidates for cum laude, said Registrar Frederick W. Hengeveld.
The afternoon will feature an address by Mr. William Harllee Branch, Jr., president of The Southern Company, Atlanta, Ga. Sunday
morning at 11, the Reverend John Oliver Nelson of Yale Divinity School will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon. This will be
followed by a luncheon for Seniors and parents. The academic procession will begin at 4:30 in the afternoon.

The executive committee plans to meet Wednesday evening before the full meeting of the trustees to decide what action to
propose the following day. Final plans for the 1962 Freshman Camp were completed with the announcement by Camp Director Danny
Carrell. The address will be delivered by Dr. John T. Rimbrough. ROTC PASSES OUT awards at an unusually hot recognition
day. Cadet Col. J. A. Alexander and Cadet Major A. P. Rush are presented awards by Capt. Robert Pierce and
Col. Bush, N. C. Sector, Commander, U.S. Army. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

The YMCA will submit a recommended budget for the 1962-1963 college year. The trustees will also have recommendations from the
administration of the college on changes in the faculty to approve,” President Martin added. The trustees are also expected to
fill existing vacancies in the executive committee at their meeting next week. The Board of Trustees consists of 51 men,
who are elected by the Presbyteries of North Carolina - Florida, by Ashe- ville, and by the Alumni Association.

Twelve outstanding ROTC students and units won awards Tuesday, May 8, at the annual Awards Day ceremonies. The awards were
presented by faculty members and special guests. One student from each of the four classes received the Department of the
Army Superior Cadet Ribbon, awarded annually to the most outstanding student in each class. Dean Johnston presented the ribbons to
Cadet Colonel H. Linton Wray, Cadet Sergeant F. H. Rule, Cadet Private G. C. Oldham, and Cadet Private David Walker.
Cadet Captain E. L. Mallard was selected best company commander. The award is given in memory of those members of
the armed forces from Mecklenburg County who have given their lives in the service of their country. The best Platoon
Leader Award was presented by the Davidson Lion’s Club to Cadet Lt. H. S. Cline. On hand to present the
honor was Mr. Sandy Carnegie, club president. Cadet F. B. Cole received the Association of the U. S. Army Award,
which is presented each year to the MS III Cadet who has contributed the most through leadership to advancing the
standing of the ROTC. Mr. John Mayhew, Commander of North Mecklenburg Post 16 of The American Legion, awarded the American
Legion Medal to Cadet Private William Richardson. Cadet Sam Childress won the Daniel B. Woods Medal for outstanding MS II
Cadet. Cadet J. C. McCutchen received the Sons of the American Revolution award for the band cadet exhibiting the highest
degree of leadership and soldierly bearing. B Company was selected as the best company for both first and second semesters
of the school year. An engraved plaque provided by the Scabbard and Blade was given to Cadet Captains J. S.
Shelton and J. B. Woods. The Henry E. Fulcher, Jr. Award, presented by the Davidson Lions Club to the MS
IV demonstrating outstanding citizenship, went to Cadet Major T. M. Patrick. Cadet Major A. P. Rush received the Armor Association
Award to the outstanding graduate in the Armor Branch.

Exam schedule of free movies to be shown in the College Union is:
Come September May 16, 18
Never So Few May 17, 19
Citizen Kane May 21, 23

Students Of Seven Nations Accept Richardson Awards BY JIMMY DOWNEY Davidsonian Staff Writer The Richardson Scholars for 1962-63 will range
from Denmark to Uruguay or farther. They have all been selected and given the opportunity to come to the United
States for study at Davidson College by the Richardson Scholarships. Definitely, eight foreign students will be here on the scholarships
for study. They are:

Christian Faber-Rod, 19, from Denmark, is first in class at Soro Academy, a school in Denmark, and participates in several
sports. On his return home from Davidson, he plans to perform his military service and then study law.

Guido Friedl, 20, from Vienna, Austria, is a student at the University of Vienna. His interests, in addition to athletics,
are political science, economics, and sociology. He plans to make a career of diplomacy and foreign service.

Robert Hendrick Gerritsen, 18, from Hillegom, The Netherlands, is completing his secondary schooling this year and plans to study language
and literature at Davidson. His career plans are for teaching English.

Osaka, Japan, is the home of Akio Kinugasa, 22. Since 1959 he has studied at Kansei Gakuin University School of
Business, and is interested in studying Business Administration here in the United States.

Jonathan Brian Lewis, 18, from Lymington, Hants, England, is a student at Wycliffe College, a preparatory school. His interests are
in sports and science, and he hopes to enter Reading University upon his return to England.

Geoffrey Peter Frederick Mortimer Luckock, 18, is from Metford Mill, Cattistock, Dorset, England. Presently a student at Wellington College, an
English prep school, Geoffrey is interested in language and history. He plans a business career after his university graduation.

Jean-Jacques Pahud, 20, from Nevruz-sur-Moudon, Vaud, Switzerland, is interested in mathematics and sciences. After receiving his formal education, he wishes
to become a teacher.

Franklin Victor Pfeffer, 21, a native of Montevideo, Uruguay. He is enrolled at the Universityof Monte and is interested in
economics and sociology. Those students who will most likely be Richardson Scholars are the following: Julio Enrique Castillo, 23, is
a student at the National University in Loja, Ecuador, his home. His field is in economics and law, but he
wants to study economics at Davidson. Giuseppe (Peppino) Cipol- joni, 18, is from Perugia, Italy. Besides sports, his interests are
in political science (Continued On Page Four).

Four Davidsonians Study Journalism — Four members of THE DAVIDSONIAN staff have received Newspaper Fund, Inc. scholarships for work-study programs
this summer. Lee Kirby, Bill Ruth, Don Saunders, and Bill Hagen will work on newspapers enrolled in this program and
receive $500 upon successful completion of the internship. The Newspaper Fund was established two years ago by The Wall Street
Journal in an effort to provide jobs and financial aid to college students interested in the field of journalism but
who would not ordinarily receive training in this field. Lee Kirby will work for the Charlotte Observer and Hagen for
the Richmond News Leader this summer.

Chooses Durham — The new campus social organization held an open meeting last Friday night. Probably numbering approximately forty persons
pledged their membership. A board of directors selected to assume leadership from the old steering committee includes Roger Durham, Bob
Llewellyn, Jim Weber, Bob Chumbley, Dick Vines, Neal Bushoven, John Rankin, Rufus Hallmark, and Al Mullen. From these directors a
slate of officers was elected. These officers are President Roger Durham, Vice-President Neal Bushoven, Secretary Bob Llewellyn, and Treasurer Jim
Weber. Al Mullen was elected social chairman for the group.

College funds have been made available to the new organization for the renovation and furnishing of the Lingle House when
its present occupant, Dr. Lobanov Rostovsky, vacates it this summer. The house will not be a boarding house, but it
will have facilities for recreation, study, televiewing, and for parties on dance weekends. Plans for next year include renovation of
the Lingle House, and mailing brochures to incoming freshmen to acquaint them with the group as an alternative or as
a supplement to fraternities. Since the group is not an exclusive organization, everyone is invited to affiliate. At present, there
is an initiation fee of $5, which will be increased next year, the initial fee being low now in order
to encourage new membership. There are also dues of $6 per semester, which will be used for the maintenance of
the house. The initiation fees will go toward the fund for furnishing the house. For dance weekend parties there will
be an assessment for those who wish to attend. The new organization, as yet, has no official name, and the
directors have not selected a faculty advisor.

By merely accepting the first 112 freshmen who send completed registration blanks and $15, the freshmen will arrive here on
September 4, to leave most of their luggage, and will be taken to camp that afternoon on buses. Dr. Russell
Montfort of the Davidson Methodist Church will give the opening address that night, with four successive programs coming on Wednesday
and Thursday dealing with the academic, religious, extracurricular, and social aspects of college life, emphasizing that once a freshman gets
here to college, he can never really return home. The general staff of the camp will include Carrell as director;
Bob Ivey, program chairman; Bill Clingman, business manager; as well as the YMCA president, Neil Nichols; the Freshman Advisor, Spud
Stewart; and the head cheerleader, Tarby Bryant.

The Union Committee will hold its annual auction on the patio of the College Union on May 18, beginning at
7:30 p.m. The auction will last until all the items have been sold or until there are no more interested
buyers. Refreshments will be served during the course of the evening. Auctioneers for this event have traditionally been faculty members.
This year two of the auctioneers will be Sergeant Gregory of the ROTC Department and Coach Charles (Lefty) Driesell. Students
and faculty are both urged to attend the auction and to put up any items they would like sold. Union
Committee President Ben Cole stressed that anything will be accepted for the auction. In the past such items as clothes,
radios, books, road signs, ROTC ammunition belts, Playboys, and the base of the flagpole have been presented. Any students or
faculty members who have items to be auctioned off should bring them by the Union desk. A minimum price will
be set for each item, and a display booth will be set up to exhibit the items in the days
before the auction.

Former Davidsonian Associate Editor — It is almost as if Editor Rob Abernethy has tried to outdo Oliver Wendell Holmes.
"Medicated" is the rather forbidding theme of the 1962 Quips 'n Cranks. With an annual as sophisticated as the personality,
the equally forbidding approach of the Freudian scholar Abernethy is not surprising. Abernethy, whose editorial style has been marked by
effort and marred by no deadlines, has carried out his chosen theme with the accustomed thoroughness. The basic question, however,
seems to be: was this the right theme? Last year, Charles Rose broke the long-standing tradition of the old Davidsonian
approach. The break was a good one. Almost anything more perceptive than the former sugar-coated Quips 'n Cranks would have
been a step ahead. As it was, Rose’s annual turned out to be of such excellence to send it sprinting
ahead of almost everybody. At the same time, the precedent was an extremely difficult one to follow. Abernethy chose to
stick to the idea that a college annual should take more than a purely superficial view of student life. In
this context, a theme in an annual becomes more than a cute idea tying together a series of snapshots—it seeks
to shed light on the deepest, and sometimes most deeply hidden, currents of the tiny, restricted society it portrays. Abernethy’s
edition has done just that. The theme and approach, then, are right. The '62 staff should be commended for carrying
on this precedent. Thumbing through the book, however, one wonders if the theme has been carried out as effectively as
thoroughly. Leonard Richardson's copy is every bit as smooth and clear as that of a good textbook. Although the Freudian
interests sometimes seem a little more sophomoric than scholarly, there is room for speculation in competent scholarship. If the copy
has polish but lacks “punch” (Freudian?), the photography seems to be richer in ideas than polish. Students and faculty are
both urged to attend the auction and to put up any items they would like sold. Union Committee President Ben
Cole stressed that anything will be accepted for the auction. In the past such items as clothes, radios, books, road
signs, ROTC ammunition belts, Playboys, and the base of the flagpole have been presented. Any students or faculty members who
have items to be auctioned off should bring them by the Union desk. A minimum price will be set for
each item, and a display booth will be set up to exhibit the items in the days before the auction.
