HIGUL an STDELIGHTS
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1962
GATS BY BILL PRIDGEN

A GREAT DAY FOR FOOTBALL

Last Saturday we saw a heavily underdog team fight its heart out and come within a hair's breadth of dumping the Southern Conference league leaders to a loss. Any one of several narrowly missed passes would have provided the margin of victory. The scoreboard read, Davidson 7, visitors 7. But this wasn't the whole story. For hours we had witnessed one of the finest football games we had ever seen. People around us were comparing the game to the Davidson-VPI contest of two years ago that was won 9-7.

For the previous two years, William & Mary was reported to have a powerful, well-balanced squad. And this they did have. But the ‘Cat defense proved that they have improved in the past few weeks, and they were able to contain each Indian drive at crucial points, allowing only one goal, which came late in the second quarter.

There were so many fine defensive plays it is hard to point to any one man as a standout. Certainly Tom Ross was a tiger on the field. Jim Fuller made some key tackles, and Tackle Jim Rhyne was looking good until he sustained a broken leg in the third quarter. Sophomore Don Hall took his place and did surprisingly well, considering the fact that this was the first time he had played in a varsity game.

On offense, the 'Cats showed their ability to move the ball. Passing accounted for most of Davidson's gains, but the ’Cats could grind out short yardage when they needed to. The highlight of the game came on the Cole-to-Heckard pass play which covered over 89 yards. Heckard’s catch and run for the score was one of the most beautiful we have ever seen. Even if Heckard never does another thing at Davidson, which we’re sure won't be the case, he will always have a claim to fame among Davidson football fans.

The most heartening performance seen last Saturday was that put in at quarterback by Kent Tucker. Tucker, who has never received due credit for his four years of football at Davidson, proved himself in the William & Mary game. He led the ’Cat attack well, and was able to run himself out of trouble in several instances where he looked like he was trapped behind the line of scrimmage.

If the ‘Cats put in as fine a show against VMI tomorrow as they did against the Indians last week, there is little doubt in our minds as to who will come out on top. A team with the spirit and fight that Davidson's footballers came out with last Saturday doesn’t lose very often. As we walked away from the field after the game, we couldn't help but think of the inscription on the trophy presented after the ’Cats 9-7 victory over VPI: “Given in honor of the game young men who have proved the spirit to be a living reality.” That spirit is still there. It was a great game to watch and a great day to be proud of the fighting Wildcat football team.

AN UNFAIR CUT

We had extra cause to be happy at the great performance made by the whole ’Cat team because it showed how utterly ridiculous and unfair the editorial “Is Football Christian” was which appeared last week in a mock issue of the DAVIDSONIAN put out by the Scripts and Pranks staff. We did not think this editorial to be humorous in the least. The boys who play football for Davidson play hard. They very often are undermanned at certain positions and are usually matched against tough opponents. In spite of this, and very often, lack of student support, they almost always manage to come out with a good record. And several times in the last few years, they have pulled off extraordinary upsets. The William & Mary game was almost one of these.

We would suggest that if the author of that editorial thinks that the Wildcat footballers are “gentlemen” about football, he should go down to the practice field and volunteer to be the tackling dummy some afternoon. This would greatly please many members of the squad.

THE CRYSTAL BALL

If the ‘Cats keep playing ball like they did last Saturday, there is little doubt in our minds that they can take all of the rest of the teams they meet on their schedule. The Kadets are tough, sitting on top of the conference with a 2-0 record, but the 'Cats are tougher. As we see it, the game will be a low-scoring contest with the ’Cat defense able to dig in and hold the VMI offense. Score—Davidson 14, VMI 7.

Other conference games we see as follows:
Army 28, VPI 7.
West Virginia University 30, George Washington 13.
The Citadel 14, Arkansas State 7.
William & Mary 7, Furman 0.
Richmond 10, Boston U. 6.

Driesell’s Hoopsters Begin Practicing

Last Monday was the earliest date by N.C.A.A. rules that organized college basketball practice could begin. That afternoon, Davidson's varsity team of five lettermen and seven sophomores started work on what Coach Lefty Driesell will emphasize all season—defense.

“I have no idea who will start,” said Driesell, “but the five boys who do the best job on defense and show the most hustle will be the five we play.”

Coach Driesell also emphasized the need for the team to get into shape fast because of the tough early schedule. The Cats play VMI, Furman, Princeton, Duke (twice), and Cincinnati before returning from Christmas vacation. “Anyone we play can beat us, and if we are right, we can beat anyone we play.”

The squad is made up of seniors Bill Jarman, Haywood Evans, and Danny Carrell; juniors Terry Holland and Bill Beerman; and sophomores Fred Hetzel, Don Davidson, Phil Squier, Paul Briggs, Barry Teague, Tom White, and Charlie Marcon.

The freshman squad, which started practice at the same time, is made up of Rufus Adair, Cam Harkness, Basil Hicks, Pat Hubbard, Jim Hyder, Neil

Blue Devil Booters Play Here Monday

Coach Harry Fogleman’s booters will meet the Blue Devils from Duke Monday afternoon on the local soccer field. Game time will be at 3 p.m. The game was originally scheduled to be played last Tuesday but was postponed at the request of Duke's coach.

The Duke soccer squad has been called “the toughest in North Carolina.” So far this season, they are undefeated. They defeated the Appalachian 9-0. Davidson's booters came close to burying the Blue Devils last year, losing 1-0.

Fogleman was full of praise for the Appalachian goalie, saying that he was the major reason that the score wasn't higher. The Appalachian game last Friday was scoreless until six minutes left in the game. Walt Eckman got credit for the winning goal, following a scirmish at the net which saw the Appalachian goalie injure himself by running into the metal post at the edge of the goal.

YMCA Sponsored Junior Footballers To Play Saturday

Tomorrow afternoon, the Davidson Bobcats will play their first game of the season at the Davidson football practice field. Game time is 4 p.m. The squad is made up of junior footballers playing in the Pop Warner league. This team is sponsored by the Davidson YMCA. Joe Howell is in charge of the overall program, and Russell Eppley and Bob Gregory are the team’s coaches. Coach Gregory expressed a note of optimism for his pint-sized gridders, saying, “This is

Me—the first year of competition for the team, but several boys have looked real good in practice and we hope they can lead us to victory.” 

THE DAVIDSONIAN

VMI HEADS CONFERENCE

BY JIM HARDWICK
Sports Staff Writer

Tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m., the Wildcats will face the Virginia Military Institute (VMI) in Lexington, Va. Last year, VMI lost to Davidson 14-13. So far this season, the Keydets have a 2-3 record with two Southern Conference victories against George Washington (22-6) and Richmond (21-0). They lost to Villanova (24-0), Boston College (18-0), and Virginia (28-6). VMI is in the same situation as William and Mary was when it came to Davidson last Saturday, in that the Keydets have a 2-0 conference record.

The squad is light and inexperienced, but Coach John McKenna, in his tenth year, has several returning lettermen. The team averages only 192 pounds. Top performers include ace pass receiver Ken Reeder, center Bill Tornbene, and guard Bill Black. Butch Nunnally and Mark Mulrooney, both junior quarterbacks, are top threats. Nunnally is also an excellent punter. Coach Bill Dole described the squad as a “small, fast unit; good in passing, kicking, and lateral pursuit.”

Joe Jones Ground Out Needed Yards From W&M

BY JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Joe Jones, a 174 lb. junior fullback, is “Wildcat-of-the-Week” for his outstanding offensive and defensive play in Saturday's 7-7 tie with the Indians of William and Mary. “Joe played the entire game on offense and saw a great deal of action at his defensive line backing position,” commented head football coach Bill Dole. “The pressure was really on him since he was the only fullback available Saturday, and he really came through for us.” Jones consistently ground out crucial yardage the entire afternoon, and his sterling defensive play was one of the major reasons William and Mary’s powerful offense could muster only one score.

Last year, Jones was a starter at halfback but was switched to fullback this year when injuries and dropouts caused a fullback shortage. A veteran, 23-year-old Jones served four years in the Air Force after his graduation from High Point High School. While in the Air Force, he played football for two years and was twice named to the All-U.S. Forces in Europe team. He also twice won honorable mention on the All-Air Force team. “I think the whole team did a helluva good job Saturday,” reflected Joe on his selection. “The line can make my job hard or easy, and thus make me look good or bad. They really played a great game against William and Mary. They don't get the credit they deserve.”

Flickerball Results

MONDAY
KA’s downed Sigma Nus, 26-6
Pikas downed SPE’s, 18-6
Kappa Sigs downed Phi Delts, 12-6
Independents downed Sigma Chis, 37-34

WEDNESDAY
Beta’s downed ATO’s, 20-0
Phi Gams downed SPE’s, 20-6
Kappa Sigs downed KA’s, 95-6
SAE’s downed Sigma Nus, 46-6

THURSDAY
Sigma Chis downed Pikas, 25-6
Independents downed Phi Delts, 37-18
Pi Kapps downed Sigma Nus, 20-1
Betas downed SPE’s, 58-6

STANDINGS
Kappa Sig 8-0
Beta 7-1
Independent 6-2
SAE 4-4
KA 6-2
Sigma Chi 3-5
ATO 3-5
Phi Gam 3-5
Phi Delt 3-5
Pika 2-6
Pi Kapp 1-7
Sigma Nu 1-7
SPE 0-8

IMAC Weekly Schedule

Field Monday 4 p.m.
Pi Kapp — KS
Beta — SX
SAE — Ind

Wednesday 4 p.m.
Phi Gam — Phi Delt
KA — Pika
SN — KS
ATO — SX

Field Thursday 4 p.m.
Pi Kapp — Ind
Beta — Phi Delt
SAE — Pika
Phi Gam — KA

Friday 4 p.m.
SX — SAE
KS — Beta
SPE — Pi Kapp
SN — ATO

Dole’s Hungry Wildcats Tackle VMI Keydets At Lexington

Coach Bill Dole’s Wildcats will face the VMI Keydets tomorrow in Lexington. The game promises to be a tough one, as VMI has a well-coached team with a fast defense. Several of Dole’s men will be out of action due to injuries received in the William and Mary game. Jim Rhyne, who broke his leg, will be out for the rest of the season. Sophomore Don Hall will probably fill in at the tackle slot. The ‘Cat squad will be taking added confidence into the game following a fine showing against conference-leading William and Mary last week. The ‘Cats contained the Indian attack and pulled some tricks of their own, including an 88-yard touchdown scamper by sophomore end Steve Heckard, which pulled the game to a 7-7 tie.

Paladin Freshmen Play Wildkittens

Tomorrow night at 8 p.m., Coach Donald Threlkeld’s Wildkittens will face the Paladin Frosh in one of the Parent's Weekend highlights. The Paladin frosh downed Gardner Webb 14-0 in their only other action this year. Threlkeld saw the game and was impressed mainly by Furman’s ground attack. “They only threw four times,” he reported. He also added that “they have depth. That's the main advantage that Furman and The Citadel, who we played last week, have over us.” Trying to avenge last week's loss to The Citadel, Threlkeld will be depending a great deal on several players. Much will depend on the running of Pac Hinsley and Steve Smith. Threlkeld expects to open up the ‘Kitten offense with the use of ends Phil Hightower and Paul Ambrose, both good receivers. Neither of these boys were able to play up to par against The Citadel because of injuries. Seeing that the ‘Kittens offense is working right will be the job of quarterback Sid Tompkins, who was a sparkplug in The Citadel clash. “We're expecting an awful lot from Tompkins,” Threlkeld announced.

Whifflemen Meet Powerful Furman

The Davidson College cross-country team journeyed to Greenville, S.C. today for a meet with Furman’s Paladin runners. Furman was the Southern Conference cross-country champion last fall and Coach Heath Whittle says “they're the team to beat” this year also. Last Saturday, the D.C. harriers trounced The Citadel, 15-50. In cross-country, low score wins by the virtue of the fact that first place counts one point, second place two, and so forth. Senior Sterling Martin led the ‘Cats to their second victory against one defeat as he set a new 4-mile course record of 22:25 on Homecoming Weekend. He was ably assisted by Ronnie Reese, Chester Davis, John Barrow, and Tim Spiro—all of whom beat the first Citadel man across the finish line.

The freshmen cross-country team finished second in a quadrangular meet with Myers Park, East, and Garinger high schools this Wednesday afternoon. Myers Park copped the team win, their number-one man winning with a time of 10:53 for the two-mile course. Andy Little of Davidson was a close second in 10:56, while Steve Gill of Davidson finished third. The Davidson freshmen also met the Furman frosh today in Greenville.

NOTICE

All Freshmen who are interested in wrestling see Coach Charlie Parker. Experience is not necessary.

AT THE PIZZA HUB

MEET YOUR FRIENDS WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST SPAGHETTI

THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

Just Across The Street
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

The Coca-Cola Company
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina