SALLEY DEFENDS — U.S. TROOPS IN OKINAWA (See Page Two)
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

PALADIN — ‘CAT CLASH ON T.V. (See Page Three)

VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1962 NUMBER EIGHT

IFC Brings Oscar Brown, Jr. For Concert Next Week

Oscar Brown, Jr., “a fresh, unassuming young man with a crew cut who projects songs with searing vigor,” has been
engaged by the IFC for the concert weekend next week. “Wearing a blue shirt and a striped tie with his
sleeves rolled up,” continues New York Times critic John S. Wilson, “he went to work with an easy precision and
a strong sense of production values, dominating the stage as much as Harry Belafonte (whom the singer is said to
resemble) does.”

Johnny Rogers, IFC president, assured THE DAVIDSONIAN this afternoon that Brown definitely will be here. The advance check has been
mailed in and the final contract is now in his hands.

Brown hit the national spotlight in 1961. Previously unknown beyond his native Southside Chicago, he was suddenly rocking audiences and
moving veterans of show biz to praises. For so brief a career, Brown has an impressive list of concerts and
night club acts, including Carnegie Hall in New York. “My lyrics are verses about feelings I’ve felt and scenes I’ve
dug,” he has explained. “The melodies I made from tunes, rhythms, chants, calls and cries that have always sung to
me.”

Brown will come midway in the festivities on Nov. 16. Saturday afternoon at 2 p.m. the Wildcats face the Richmond
Spiders at the Davidson stadium. Following will be Brown's concert. Later in the evening, several fraternities are having Fall Functions.

Further evidence of his profound success comes from Dave Garroway, on whose “Today” show Brown appeared: “I've had in the
last nine years 11,600 guests—every name in music today. Never has any artist received as many telephone calls, telegrams, mail,
messages after a broadcast as Oscar Brown, Jr. did on his first appearance. He communicates better, I think, than any
other living performer.”

Brecht Drama ‘Galileo’ Next Vagabonds Play

BY JIMMY DOWNEY
Davidsonian Assistant News Editor

The Vagabonds will present Bertolt Brecht’s drama Galileo on Nov. 14-17 at 8:15 p.m. at Hodson Hall in the Cunningham
Fine Arts Building. The historical play, with a cast of about 30, relates the story of the famous Renaissance scientist
and his struggle against authority in his day.

Brecht, one of the most important German playwrights, wrote this play during the period 1937-39, probably in Scandinavia. Later during
the Nazi period in Germany, Brecht escaped to the free world. The premiere of Galileo was in 1943 in Zurich.
The English version was the work of Brecht and Charles Laughton in 1947 in translating and making considerable changes in
it. Then the play was taken to New York and has been performed fairly often since then.

Because of the recent increase in interest in Brecht’s works in the U.S., the Vagabonds, in connection with this play,
will present on Nov. 17 a Workshop Production Of Poor B.B. This performance, in Hodson Hall at 8:15, is a
study of Brecht, who died in 1956, and his works. Various selections of his prose and poetry will be discussed.

Scabbard And Blade Taps Seven Into Membership

Scabbard and Blade, the honorary military organization at Davidson, tapped seven seniors for membership at drill Tuesday. The seven MS
IV's selected are as follows: Bill Boyd, Sam Clark, the present Cadet Corps Commander; Dick Eberhardt; Darl Russell; Tommy Tuttle;
Ed Willer; and Russ Williams.

Scabbard and Blade is a national military organization for the express purpose of promoting and recognizing excellence in military studies.
There are 60 different divisions at colleges and universities in the United States. Men of each branch of the armed
services belong. To be tapped by Scabbard and Blade, it is necessary for a man to be recognized for military
leadership and for his interest and excellence in the military program at Davidson. At least a B average in ROTC
and an overall C average are necessary.

Scabbard and Blade will hold three more tapping ceremonies this school year. The next one will take place in Jan.
when MS III's will join the organization. Second semester cadets will be tapped in two ceremonies next semester.

The main service function for Scabbard and Blade is the promotion and sponsorship of the annual Turkey Shoot which will
be staged on Nov. 19 of this year. The organization also is in charge of the military orientation for Freshman
Parent's Day and helps in the orientation of juniors who will attend summer camp.

The organization holds an average of two meetings a month. At many of the meetings a speaker is present to
talk about topics of military interest for the members.

KEN KELLY taps Cadet Colonel Sam Clark for Scabbard and Blade induction held Tuesday during drill. (Photo by McCutchen).

Vagabonds Assistant Director Don Stowell stated, “There is a Brecht revival going on in the country.” Interest is rising in
Europe as well as in America for his works. “He was quite a remarkable playwright,” Stowell commented.

For the Vagabonds the production is fairly experimental. Instead of 14 different scenes as called for in the script, the
production will make use of projections, lighting, and different props to change the set. Hansford Epes will assist in the
production. One of the original Vagabonds, Epes has chosen Brecht as his major study at the University of North Carolina.

Some parts of the story are serious while others are “wildly funny,” according to Stowell. “It will be a stimulating
production because Brecht has got something to say. Through the Workshop and through the play, I hope we'll get the
full significance across.”

Queen Girls Sow Unrest, Seek To Scotch Drink Rule

BY BOB ADAMS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“Women On Campus Protesting the Drinking Rule” Monday, Oct. 22, to arouse rule. The demonstration held on the Queens campus
consisted of poster warfare employing such primer syntax phrases as “see the bad rule—it is a very bad rule.” Although
only six to eight sophomores were involved in the “crude” display which the administration promptly squelched, The Charlotte Observer reported
the incident in a news article Thursday, Oct. 25.

The poster display was but a minor part of a long-standing objection to the Queens drinking rule. In effect, the
rule states that no Queens student shall drink while under the college jurisdiction from September to May. Exceptions include students
on holidays and at home. The most recent infraction of the rule resulted in six girls being campused for toasting
the bride at a wedding they attended.

The Homecoming edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN carried an editorial admonishing the Queens girls to express their opinion about the drinking
rule. Queens Resident Student Council President Maywood Nisbet pointed out two fallacies in the DAVIDSONIAN editorial: first, suspension is not
the minimum punishment for violation of the rule, and, second, the drinking rule is not part of the Queens honor
code as the editorial implied.

Miss Nisbet also discredited the speculation here that the DAVIDSONIAN editorial might be a major cause of protest to the
drinking rule. She said that modification of the rule has been under consideration since last spring and that recent articles
in THE DAVIDSONIAN and Queens Current plus the recent campusing have merely added fuel to the fire.

The present desire of the Queens student body appears to be that the rule be changed. Lou Anne Garland, editor
of Queens Current, stated, “It's a vague rule. Last year, the wording was changed, but it’s still vague. Miss Nisbet
and the council are preparing questionnaires on

Council Solicits Aid Of Faculty Committee

The Student Council again this year is planning to ask the faculty to abolish the off-campus drinking rule. This rule
prohibits the use of alcoholic beverages at an off-campus event sponsored entirely or in part by the college. In a
regular session this week, Carrell commented on recent student sentiment against the Queens College drinking rule.Unanimously passed DAVIDSONIAN articles concern
the rule for each girl to answer in addition to a student body vote on the rule held Wednesday. Next
Wednesday, there will be a student assembly to discuss the action taken by the Resident Student Council. Any proposed change
in the rule must be approved by the faculty advisory committee and perhaps by the Board of Trustees. THE DAVIDSONIAN
interview revealed a belief that the present rule is inequitable: “Many times girls come back to the dorm actually drunk
and aren’t caught but we've been campused for sipping champagne at a wedding.” The girl, one of six campused recently,
went on to state that “A college girl is old enough to make her own decision about drinking.” Other girls
expressed their opinion in the Oct. 22-28 edition of the Queens Current. (Continued On Page Four)

The Davidson College Board of Visitors opened their annual session this afternoon with a meeting at 2:30. About 55 members
of the board and the Executive Committee of the Trustees are here on campus for the two-day meeting, including 11
new members of the board who were introduced at a banquet held this evening for the Visitors. Also honored at
the banquet were the new officers of the board. Names were unavailable at this writing. This evening the Visitors are
attending one of three special seminars to be held during their meeting. The basic idea of the seminars is to
acquaint the Visitors with the new methods and approaches that Davidson is using in teaching drama, science, religion, philosophy, and
the humanities to relate these isolated subjects to a liberal education. Following the seminar this evening, a reception will be
held for the Visitors in President D. Grier Martin’s home. After their annual meeting this afternoon, the Visitors were entertained
by the Male Chorus. The chorus sang excerpts from its upcoming role in The Student Prince. Two more seminars and
a coffee will conclude the Visitors’ activities tomorrow. In the morning, a coffee will be held in the newly redecorated
Marcia Bell Mitchell Room at the Guest House.

The 1962 Otts Lectures will begin with Dr. Nels F. S. Ferre speaking at vespers Sunday evening. The overall subject
of the lectures Nov. 4-6 is “The Finality of Faith.” At vespers his topic will be “The Focus of Faith.”
It will be the first regular vespers service attended by freshmen. Ferre will continue his series of lectures at Monday’s
assembly where he will discuss “The Heritage in History.” During fifth period he will meet informally with the Reformation Theology
class in room 210 Chambers. Visitors are invited to this 1:40 to 2:30 class. At 6 p.m. Monday, Ferre will
be the dinner guest of members of the Administration and Departments of Bible and of Philosophy in the private dining
room of the Union. Following the dinner, at 7:30 Ferre will speak in Lingle Chapel on “The Finding of Faith.”
Immediately following there will be an informal coffee hour-discussion with Ferre in the Student Lounge of the Union. The final
lecture of the series will be given by Ferre at the 10:20 chapel Tuesday with a talk on “The Fulfillment
of Faith.” These Otts Lectures will be published by Harper and Brothers sometime during the second semester.

DR. NELS F. S. FERRE

The following new members unanimously passed a motion to ask for the support of the Faculty Committee on Fraternities and
Social Life. The council plans to send at least two representatives to the next committee meeting to present the idea.
In discussing the possible feelings of the committee members, Student Council President Danny Carrell said that he felt a majority
of them would be on the council's side. “I think that we ought to start with the committee first, then
they can help us through the rest of the faculty,” Carrell said. Last year's council took the idea straight to
the faculty with little success. Carrell reiterated that this was only a start but hoped that step by step the
proposal might become reality. In other matters, a letter from the business manager of the college concerning the college’s plans
for the Lake Norman property was read. The administration was seeking ideas for the area from students. The council decided
to distribute a questionnaire for every student to complete.

“The DAVIDSONIAN has been a little unjust to us,” he claimed, regarding the council's action on NSA. He went on
to repeat his intention for presenting a program to the student body on the NSA; however, no details were announced.
Carrell said the fact that no one on the council objected to joining the NSA was a sign of unity
among the members. Hugh Bell and Charlie Dibble are planning to attend another interim council meeting of the State Student
Legislature at Chapel Hill Sunday, Nov. 4. They will bring back details of the legislature meeting scheduled later this year.
Carrell said 11 students had indicated an interest in attending the legislature meeting from Davidson. Of these, seven will be
official delegates. Four members—all seniors—were absent from the council meeting. Because of the lecture series, the council will not meet
on Nov. 5. The next meeting is scheduled for Nov. 12 at 8:30 p.m. (Continued On Page Four)

Local Graveyard Boasts Historic Boxed Remains
BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Everyone knows where “the graveyard” is, and most everyone has probably seen the historical marker to Lt. General D. H.
Hill outside. But there is more! Like practically every site in Davidson town, the cemetery is filled (literally) with historical
significance and information related to the college. The cemetery was set apart in the summer of 1838—ominously soon after the
college itself began operation. Since that time it has received everyone from College presidents to a Bavarian workman, Mathias Engle,
killed in the quarrying of rock for college building and buried, presumably out of gratitude, by the “people of Davidson
College.” Perhaps many of its student and faculty guests would have preferred other green pastures. However, a lack of embalming
processes in the nineteenth century, with the resultant rapid return of bones to proverbial dust, more or less dictated their
final resting place.

The literary societies used to be even more active than most people realize. In fact, until the 1880s, whenever a
fellow member died, the society with which he was affiliated arranged his funeral, which was held in the society hall.
He was provided with a tombstone, replete with the hallowed society seal. The depleted organization then invited its opposite to
join in the mourning, which consisted of a crepe arm band worn for a month and total suppression of frivolity,
obviously observed for a somewhat shorter period. As an example of the societies’ in memoriam activities, the Eumeneans provided for
the burial of Aghabey David Yonan, for years a local legend due to his vain attempt at saving a drowning
fellow student, an act which cost him his own life.

Of course there’s always D. H. Hill, who brought to Davidson with his teaching ability a strong code of student
behavior which the faculty promptly accepted for our school. This no doubt early endeared Hill to the students; in fact,
there was rumor that he was hit by a rock during a student riot. He later left Davidson to teach
at the North Carolina Military Institute, which was eventually closed, its site to one day be a place of somewhat
less rigorous training, the present Charlotte YMCA. A Civil War hero and later president of the University of Arkansas, Hill
rates, near the rear of our Boot Hill, a beautiful stone with a summary of his educational and war careers.
Hill was not the only Davidson prof to be buried across the street. Some of these have their dedication to
the school proclaimed, while others seem to have been inclined to believe that their names would live in the spot
box.

A visit to the cemetery, with its aging stones and peaceful location, reminds today's Davidsonian just how much he and
his college rely on the mouldy and moulding traditions of over a century and a quarter. It is “footsteps on
the sands of time” with a personal touch.
