PAGE FOUR

THE CRYSTAL BALL

Since last week's attempt at predicting the results of Southern Conference outings proved to be so disastrous, we first decided that the wisest thing to do was to discontinue running predictions in this column. After much thought, however, it was decided to give it one more try. So now, with a second-hand crystal ball and a little spiritual guidance from Sister Roberts, we again put our neck on the chopping block.

With both Tom Worrell and Jim Fuller back in the lineup, and with Earl Cole able to diversify the attack with his passes, Davidson should be able to top a big Wofford squad. Prediction: Davidson 21, Wofford 13.

The Citadel should not find any competition from the Presbyterian eleven, and should win handily. Prediction: The Citadel 30, Presbyterian 6.

When Furman meets powerful Florida State, it will suffer the same fate as did The Citadel two weekends ago. Prediction: Florida St. 36, Furman 9.

The Richmond-VMI clash will be an interesting one, but Richmond, with Mel Rideout, a brilliant but erratic quarterback, should be too much for the light VMI team. Prediction: Richmond 27, VMI 14.

VPI should be just another statistic in West Virginia's tide to the conference championship. VPI suffers from inexperience while West Virginia has one of the bigger teams in the country. Prediction: West Virginia 28, VPI 7.

We see no chance for William & Mary to upset Navy even if they are much stronger than last year. Last week's loss to Virginia will be repeated. Prediction: Navy 26, William & Mary 7.

BOWLING CHAMPIONS YET

For several years now bowling has been quite a fad among members of the ROTC department staff. And although they may not look it, they are really quite talented. Both teams will be out for blood to revenge for last year's tie. Fogleman said that it would be hard to judge State's team, but they perennially put out a good one. Fogleman hopes to better last year’s successful 6-4 record, with ten lettermen returning. Practice has gotten off to a rather slow start, however, with many of the boys plagued by blisters and sore leg muscles. Fogleman seemed to think that this year’s squad reported in relatively weak physical condition, and has not achieved top shape, despite the daily wind-sprints. Nevertheless, he did say, “The team should be better than last year’s if the boys can get into better shape and if we could get a kick board for practice.” Many of the boys have not worked out on a kick board, and Fogleman is having trouble replacing the old one.

The backfield is fairly well set up, and is considered superior to last year’s. Bob Meldrum, Tarby Bryant, and Glen Hanes are all outstanding at fullback. Halfback positions are still unsettled, but Don McQueen will be a standout. Bruce Swain and Zack Smith will complete the first unit at halfback.

Each Wednesday night they motor over to the bowling alley in Concord and try their hand at fame and glory. The name of the league is the King Pin League, and the ROTC superstars do well against their “King Pin” brethren. They are currently leading the league—of course the season is early as yet, but true ability shows from the start. The team is made up of Lt. Col. Wheaton, Sgts. Gregory, Penley, Crump, Hughes, and Cothran, and Bob Gregory. Last year the ROTC department team, which is essentially the same as this year’s, ended the season as co-champs of the league. The team will lose one of its best members this winter when Sgt. Gregory retires, but not only will the team lose a good bowler, Davidson will lose one of its most avid sports fans. Anyone who ever went down to the supply room to kill a little time knows the keen interest Gregory had in sports and the boys who played them. A lot of us will miss Sgt. Gregory.

DAVE THOMAS NOT RETURNING

Dave Thomas, who attracted interest and speculation by his leaving campus last Saturday, has officially withdrawn from school. A call from Dean Richard Burts to his home last night confirmed this, following the receipt of a letter in the registrar's office requesting a transcript of his grades. Thomas was a member of last year’s freshman basketball squad and was expected to add strength to the varsity this year. For those of you who are interested, he will be going to Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. We are sincerely sorry that he was not happy.

BY BILL PRIDGEN

Coach Harry Fogleman’s booters will clash Thursday with the Wolfpack of North Carolina State for the opening game of the soccer season at Raleigh. Captain Charlie Sasser and Jan Brekel are all strong. Christian Faber-rod, a Richardson Scholar from Holland, may develop into one of the best members of the squad, if he can adapt to the American rules of soccer. Goalie is the most speculative position this year. Jim Bulla and Lyman Dillon are filling the gap without any previous experience. Much will depend on how these boys develop. Fogleman foresees quite a few other boys playing a lot of good ball, such as Dan Adams, Howard Morris, Dave Olin, Franklin Pfeffer, Toby Bethea, Glasgow, John Ruffin, and John Curry.

Fuller and Worrell in lineup. Wildcats Hope To Claw Terriers To Revenge Bulldog’s Mauling

In their third encounter of the season, Coach Bill Dole’s Wildcats face Wofford College in Spartanburg tomorrow night. The game, to be played in Snyder Stadium, marks the ninth contest in a close, hard-fought series that began in 1954. Both Davidson and Wofford have an equal claim on the victories, with four wins apiece. And most of the wins have been by narrow margins. In 1958 freshman Bruce Usher booted the ‘Cats to success. Saturday, Fuller, the victim of a pre-season broken foot, is ready for the first time, the health chart is on the upswing. Both Tommy Worrell and Jim Fuller return to active duty in heavy-duty service at fullback tomorrow night. Worrell, troubled by an injured knee, returns in apparently strong condition. Both men bring a wealth of potential to the ‘Cat roster. Missing from the lineup, however, will be Bill Dole, Jr., sidelined as a result of a knee injury received against The Citadel. Last Saturday, ‘Cat hopes of having a better than good season received a big setback in a 19-0 loss to The Citadel Bulldogs. It was the fourth straight loss to the Bulldogs in a series that stretches back over twenty years.

BY RODGER DAVID
Sports Staff Writer

CONCENTRATING INTENTLY, FRED SHOEN tries for a goal during soccer practice. ZACH SMITH is set for an attempt to block the ball and LYMAN DILLON is moving over for the play. COACH HARRY FOGLEMAN looks on, hoping they will be ready for the N. C. STATE opener. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).Here, and Field we hope he finds Dickenson a more satisfactory school.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

GANT SHIRTMAKERS
“A NEW BUTTON TAB”
A new Gant innovation that eliminates the need for snaps. In its place, a permanent button is sewn on the tab. Result—fast, easy adjustment with no snaps showing. Like all Gant shirts, it has a clean, gentlemanly manner.
Bush Wilson Ltd.

The line is considered by Fogleman as equal to last year’s, and could be even better if such boys as Walt Eckman and Mike Nemir play up to potential. Veteran Fred Shoen, the team’s playmaker, and

Flickerball Schedule
Oct. 1-5
Monday, 4 p.m.
SN vs. Beta
ATO vs. Pi Kapp
Phi Delt vs. KA
Ind. vs. Phi Gam

Wednesday, 4 p.m.
SX vs. SAE
KS vs. Beta
SPE vs. Pi Kapp
SN vs. ATO

Thursday, 4 p.m.
Pika vs. Phi Gam
Phi Delt vs. SAE
Ind. vs. Beta
SX vs. Pi Kapp

Friday, 4 p.m.
KS vs. ATO
SPE vs. SN
KA vs. SAE
Pika vs. Beta

Field 1 2 3 4

AGAINST THIS YEAR’S OPPONENTS
Catawba *
Citadel *
Wofford
Presbyterian
William & Mary
V.M.I.
Virginia
Furman
Richmond

DAVIDSON COLLEGE SERIES RECORD

and himself into the Southern Conference record books with three field goals. Last year's 34-13 Terrier-trouncing by the ‘Cats was unprecedented in the margin of victory. All factors considered, the match should return to precedent tomorrow night. The Terriers were edged 15-14 in their first outing by Lenoir-Rhyne. Last week, a powerful Furman attack ground out over 400 yards, scored six touchdowns, and soundly defeated the Wofford eleven 34-19. Despite the defeats, the Terriers possess a winning potential. Their line, though malfunctioning in the Furman match, stacks up well with the ‘Cats’ forward wall. With two tackles weighing in at 230, they are not lacking in poundage. And in the backfield, there is ample talent, especially at quarterback and halfback. Tom Ellis, speedy and agile, is a capable quarterback. And halfback Bob Roma is the player to watch according to Coach Dwight Shue, who scouted the Terriers last week. Experience is another factor.

Won. Lost. Tied.
10 1 0
9 10 1
20 4 1
19 13 4
3 3 0
14 23 2
0 6 1
9 23 0
7 10 1
* including this year’s game

Walls Takes W.O.W. For Citadel Showing

“He’s a kind of guy who never gives up.” This is the way a fellow team member sized up the Wildcat of the Week, Russell Walls, a junior guard. Walls’ play in The Citadel game, both offensive and defensive, won the praise of coaches and players alike. He played hard and was a major factor that the score was not worse than it was. He also served as co-captain of that game. Walls’ selection as W.O.W., however, was based as much on the consistently good performance he puts in every game as it was on his performance in any one game. Too often linemen like Walls are overlooked because their play is never as spectacular as that of backs and ends. In high school, Walls showed the kind of stuff he was made of by winning the West Virginia State Wrestling Championship in the 167-pound class. He was also an All-State football player. So when Walls lines up against a tough opponent, you know he’s going to play harder—that’s just the way he is.

FOR PLEASURE, RELAXATION, GOOD TIMES, SHARING

CO-CAPTAIN HONORS tomorrow night will be Dick Vorhees (right) and Morris Williams. Vorhees, from Winston-Salem, N.C., is a senior and is president of the conservative club. Williams is a junior footballer from Henderson, N.C. He also holds down better than a B average.

Wake Forest Meet First For Harriers

“We're going with the intention of winning,” commented Davidson cross country coach Death Whittle on the Wildcat harriers’ journey to Wake Forest Wednesday. Leading the Demon Deacons against Coach Whittle’s forces will be last year's number 2 man, Bob Dorest. In addition to Dorest, John Carter and Ron Thomas head a strong letterman contingent intent on repeating last year’s twin victories over Davidson. “Sterling Martin is in better shape now than he was last year at this time and ought to bring home a first,” said Coach Whittle of the Wildcat captain and All-Southern Conference star. Along with Martin, sophomores Denny Phillips, Ronnie Reese, and Chester Davis will be the mainstays of the Davidson team. Davidson's freshmen will encounter Wake’s Baby Deacons also on Wednesday. Steve Gill, Andy Little, and Bill Briggs are the Wildkittens’ top men. Pembroke's cross country team will be entertained Friday, Oct. 5, in Davidson's first home meet. This meet was postponed from last week.

TENNIS PRACTICE
Varsity tennis practice will be held from 1:30 to 3:30 each afternoon. Anyone interested in going out should see Coach Harry Fogleman at this time.

Dole attributed the loss to “mistakes, fumbles, and missed assignments.” He said, “We'll come around. You just can’t win with mistakes.” What bothered Dole the most was a 'Cat offense that bogged down four times in the first half inside the Bulldog twenty-yard line. This inability of the 'Cats to score in contrast to a balanced Citadel attack with an even balance of running and passing sums up the ‘Cats to their first defeat. Scoring on The Citadel team was mainly a one-man operation accomplished by Dwight Street. In the first half, Street ran one score over and kicked the extra point; in the second half, he kicked two insurance field goals. The other Bulldog score was made by Eddie Taylor, Bulldog right halfback. A week from Saturday, the Wildcats journey to Clinton, S.C. to take on the Blue Hose from Presbyterian College.

Flickerball Start Highlights Week

This year’s intramural program got underway this week as flickerball action began. On Monday afternoon, the defending co-champion Kappa Sigs showed promise of another powerful contingent by drubbing the Independents, 48-12, behind the accurate passing of tailback Johnny Rogers. The Phi Delts began their annual defense of the intramural athletic trophy by whipping the Sig Eps, 47-0, via the long aerials of Nat Harris to Hill Wellford. The Pikas played 31 men in their game with the Sigma Nus and came out on the long end of a 19-0 score. The passing combination of Rick Smyre to Sam Grimes enabled the KA’s to batter the ATO’s, 28-2. Despite a rain-soaked field and a steady drizzle throughout the afternoon, three games were played Wednesday afternoon. The Betas, the other defending flickerball co-champions, squeaked by the SAE’s, 7-0, sparked by Hank Ackerman's offensive and defensive play. The Phi Gams didn't let the wet field slow them down as they bombed the Pi Kapps, 41-0. Paced by tailback Jack Hollenbeck, the Sigma Chis overcame a 14-7 deficit and clipped the Phi Delts, 26-20.

FOR QUICK DRYCLEANING AND SHIRT LAUNDRY SERVICE COME TO
JACKSON HATTIE'S CLEANERS
JUST UP THE ROAD! ACROSS FROM GULF STATION