PAGE THREE FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1962

HIGHLIGHTS SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

THE BIG TIME

Davidson on T.V.? Believe it or not, tomorrow's game with Furman will be on the tube. For all you doubting
Thomases, why don’t you go over to the stadium tomorrow and trip over a cable or two. Next Tuesday, Coach
Fogleman’s booters travel to Misenheimer, N. C., to engage Pfeiffer College. Coach Fogleman has said that Pfeiffer will have its
usual strong squad. The game will be carried over two stations: WSOC (Channel 9) in Charlotte, and WFBC (Channel 4)
in Greenville, S. C., and viewers in these areas will get their first look at televised Southern Conference soccer. Pfeiffer
usually fields a good team. Last year they barely edged the ‘Cats out 3-2 in a game here. Fogleman says
that he expects a very tough game from them.

In case you're wondering how all this came about, the story is a long one. It goes back several years
to the time when Athletic Director Tom Scott first came up with the idea of televising some of Davidson’s games.
Not much came of it for a while until this summer when Scott was able to get permission to televise
our games from the NCAA. It is necessary to get permission from the NCAA because they have a rule that
no teams playing a major schedule can televise their games since it would interfere with the game of the week
telecast. Since Davidson is classed as playing a minor schedule, Scott was able to get an O.K. from them on
local broadcasts.

In Thursday’s match with Belmont Abbey, the Wildcat booters took their fourth victory of the season, 8-1, in a rare
show of scoring power. Scoring started early in the game from a long, high shot by Zach Smith, which dropped
in over the Belmont goalie’s head. Christian Faber-Rod picked up three goals during the afternoon and Fred Schoen, high scorer
for the ‘Cats, picked up two. Walt Echman and Franklin accounted for Davidson's other two goals. One of Guilford’s goals
was tainted by the fact that it was scored while the ‘Cats thought time was out. A halfback was injured,
and play started as he was being helped off the field. In the confusion, Guilford slipped in their second goal.
“They wouldn't have scored it if we had been ready,” Fogleman said.

FIRST TELEVISED GAME

Tomorrow afternoon, this game beginning at 2 p.m. at Richardson Field is the ’Cats thirty-second contest with the Purple and
White team. The series record stands 9-23-0. Last year Davidson lost to the Greenville team 45-19. SQUARING OFF against each
other are this week's co-captains, BILL BANKHEAD (left) and SPUD STEWART. Both men are seniors. STEWART, who comes from Lake
City, Fla., did not play ball his freshman or sophomore years. BANKHEAD was chosen as a co-captain for the Presbyterian
game but was not able to play then because of a foot injury.

Last Saturday, Furman rallied with three long touchdown drives in the final quarter for a 33-25 victory over The Citadel,
the defending conference champs. In this game, Furman got 323 yards passing. It looks like their ball club is back
on the right track after having lost four in a row previous to Saturday night.

Flickerball Ends; Champs

The 1962 intramural flickerball campaign came to an end this afternoon as four games and one playoff of a previous
tie finished out the schedule. For the third straight season, the Kappa Sigs were flickerball champions, although they had to
share the crown with the Betas last year. An explosive offense and a tight defense enabled the Sigs to bowl
over all twelve opponents this year.

Last Friday, the Kappa Sigs clinched the championship with a 27-0 win over the defensive-minded Betas. Led by speedsters Johnny
Rogers, Buddy DuBose, and Johnny Almond, and glue-fingered receivers Jimmy Hendrix, Rick Lowery, Harry Tart, and Eddy Earle, the champions
blitzed the Betas for all of their points in the first half. But in the second half, the Betas’ vaunted
defense dug in and did something no other team has managed to do this year—shut out the Sigs for a
half.

In other action last Friday, the SAE’s nipped the Sigma Chis on yardage after a 0-0 tie during the regular
game; the Sig Eps won their first game of the year with a 7-6 victory over the Pi Kapps; and
the ATO’s downed the Sigma Nus. On Monday, the Pikas upset the Phi Gams with a one-touchdown margin.

Thinclads Journey To Raleigh Monday

The Davidson cross-country team will make its annual journey to Raleigh to run in the state cross-country championships on Monday.
Other participants in the meet are N. C. State, the hosts, Campbell College, Duke, Pembroke, the University of North Carolina,
and Wake Forest. When questioned as to this year’s favorite, Coach Heath Whittle stated, “U. N. C. should repeat as
state champions as they have virtually the same team that they had last year.”

GETTING IN SHAPE is all part of the game, no matter how experienced.

Footballers Face Furman Squad Tomorrow

So far this season, the Paladins have a 1-2 conference standing including the Citadel win and defeats by George Washington,
14-7, and William and Mary, 21-7. They led over Presbyterian 40-4 and over Wofford 34-21. Other losses have been to
Florida State 42-0 and Howard College 14-7. The Paladin squad has 23 lettermen. The first unit is made up entirely
of veterans, and the second unit has seven lettermen. The Paladins use a pro-type offense. Key linemen are all S.C.
candidates. At fullback are George Rapinchuck, 6-1, 195 and Elliott Keller 6-2, 195. Keller is the fifth leading ground gainer
in the country. Both are hard, straight-up-the-middle chargers. There are seven lettermen at halfback, led by speedy John Cook, 6-1,
175. At right halfback will be Sammy Pickens, both an offensive and defensive threat. Head coach Bill Dole feels that
Furman is one of the strongest teams the Wildcats have had in his five years.

After Scott got NCAA permission, he worked closely with Castleman Chesley, an independent producer from Philadelphia, and the officials of
station WSOC to set up the details. Chesley, who is producing the game, also produces many other sports events, including
ACC basketball games. The play-by-play announcing will be done by Woody Durham from Chapel Hill, N. C. Color will be
handled by Bill Snyder, sportscaster for WSOC in Charlotte. This will mark the first time Davidson has ever televised an
athletic event, and it will be the first time any member of the newly formed Southern Conference has played before
T.V. cameras. Scott believes that televising Davidson’s games will be good for the college by showing people the brand of
football we play in the Southern Conference, and that in the long run it will increase attendance at our games.

In case any of you wonder what that tower is on the gym tomorrow, it is a microwave tower used
to transmit the game to the WSOC tower in Charlotte where it will be broadcast. Using a microwave tower is
much less expensive than using cables.Play Here After Virginia Loss
BY JIM HARDWICK
Sports Staff Writer

In their second home game, the Davidson Wildcats tackle the Furman Paladins tomorrow. Bob Cordle is second with 166 for
44. Dole felt that tackle Mike Owen’s lateral pursuit and recovery from double teaming was excellent. He felt that this
was junior Britt Smith’s best game. Again on home turf next Saturday, the Wildcats will play the Richmond Spiders. Last
year, the Dolemen lost to Coach Merrick’s squad 20-0.

SMOOTHS Open Year Today At Wofford
BY JIM HARDWICK
Sports Staff Writer

Davidson's sharpshooters opened their season this afternoon in Spartanburg against the marksmen from Wofford College. Sgt. Newby, rifle team coach,
picked six men to make the trip. These six are Bill Blakley, Jim Young, Ronnie Lewis, Lowell Kirkman, Ronnie Rudolph,
and Dick Levy. The scores of the five best firers will be added to get the team score.

The Davidson rifle team has been practice firing three times weekly at the ROTC indoor rifle range in preparation for
a full season. Last year, these Wildcat sharpshooters retired the Western North Carolina Conference trophy after winning three years in
a row. The team has been firing regularly since September 20. Each time at a series of targets—prone, kneeling, and
standing. The team coordinator, Capt. Partridge, feels that the practices this year indicate definite improvement. Sgt. Newby is “excited about
the freshmen prospects.” An elimination was held in September since so many freshmen indicated interest. Among the five frosh, Sam
Black has been chalking up high practice scores, and Jim Kopp has had high scores in high school.

Yesterday, the Betas assured themselves of a second-place finish by defeating the KA’s, 25-13; the SAE’s slipped by the Phi
Gams, 7-0; and the ATO’s spanked the Sig Eps, 32-20. The SAE’s improved due to their tough defense, paced by
linemen Olin Hill 6-4, 235, and Joe Monti, 6-0, 240, who are the best tackles Coach Bob King has seen
in a row. The team has been firing regularly since September 20. Each time at a series of targets—prone, kneeling,
and standing. The team coordinator, Capt. Partridge, feels that the practices this year indicate definite improvement. Sgt. Newby is “excited
about the freshmen prospects.” An elimination was held in September since so many freshmen indicated interest. Among the five frosh,
Sam Black has been chalking up high practice scores, and Jim Kopp has had high scores in high school.

As for Davidson's chances, Whittle said, “Well, U.N.C. and Duke should be 1, 2, but we'll be fighting it out
with Wake Forest for third. I'm not sure how Sterling Martin will do against those boys from the Atlantic Coast
Conference. We'll have to wait and see.”

DUSTING OFF THE OLE’ CRYSTAL BALL
The ’Cat squad is hungry for a victory after dropping two in a row, and we believe they'll be taking
it out on the Paladins of Furman tomorrow. The game will be a close one since both teams have shown
that they know how to win, and the desire of the ’Cats will be the deciding factor. Davidson 28, Furman
20.

Other games we see as follows:
West Virginia 28, William & Mary 7.
The Citadel 14, VMI 8.
Tulane 21, VPI 15.
Richmond 20, George Washington 13.

Medals are given to the first ten runners in both the freshmen and varsity races, with a trophy going to
the best team in each category. The freshmen will run two miles and the varsity 4.2 miles. Sophomores JOE PARKER
and SMITH McKEITHEN are preparing for the coming wrestling and swimming seasons. The wrestling team has its first match on
December 1 and the swimming season starts on December 4. (Staff Photos by McCutchen)

Freshmen Primed For Ferram College
Davidson's frosh footballers journeyed to Rocky Mount, Va., to play Ferram Jr. College in their third contest of the year.
Coach Roger Thrift, who has scouted Furman at Howard College, cites “an explosive offense which can score from anywhere, and
a well-balanced attack.” Last Saturday in Virginia, the ’Cats dropped their third game of the season to a much tougher
team, 34-7. The first half was a hard-fought contest, but the second half told the story as the ’Cat squad
was unable to do anything right against the Cavaliers. Jim Fuller scored the lone ’Cat tally in the first quarter
on a one-yard plunge. Bill Dole kicked the extra point. Although Pat Fisher did not play in the Virginia game,
he is second with 156 yards for 37 times. It is hoped that he will be able to play tomorrow.

This season, six postal matches have been scheduled in addition to regular firing. In these postal matches, practice is done
under competition conditions to give the men experience shooting under pressure. The Davidson Athletic Department has purchased an Anschutz Model
54 Super-match rifle which sophomore Dick Levy will fire. The precision-made rifle has great accuracy and accounted for ten of
the top twenty scores in recent Australian Olympic matches. Several of the teams which placed higher than Davidson in Southern
Conference firing used this weapon. The squad hopes to get another Anschutz each year until each member is equipped with
one. Capt. Partridge also has indicated that this progressive rifle team may use ski boots for better stability in kneeling
and standing positions.

Earlier in the season, Ferram dropped a game to Gardner Webb Jr. College, the ’Kittens’ next opponents. Gardner Webb beat
Ferram 12-0.

Marlboro Contest
WIN! BEAUTIFUL 19 INCH MOTOROLA TELEVISION CONSOLE
RULES —
1) Contest open to all students.
2) Each empty package of Marlboro, Alpine, or Parliament will have a value of 5 points. Each empty package submitted
of Phillip Morris Regular or Commander will have a value of 10 points.
3) In order to qualify, each entrant must have 15,000 points.
WHO WINS —
1) Any fraternity or individual who qualifies and has the highest points.
CONTEST ENDS ON NOVEMBER 9, 1962 AT 1:30 PM.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 1962-63
Nov. 30 Erskine Davidson
Dec. 1 Duke Durham, N.C.
4 Wofford Davidson
8 V.M.I. Davidson
4 Furman Davidson
18 Duke Charlotte Coliseum
22 Cincinnati Cincinnati
28 New Hampshire Davidson
29 Princeton Charlotte Coliseum
Jan. 2 William and Mary Davidson
5 East Carolina Davidson
8 West Virginia Morgantown, W. Va.
10 Furman Greenville, S.C.
12 Jacksonville Univ. Davidson
16 Wofford Spartanburg, S.C.
28 Erskine Gastonia, N.C.
30 William and Mary Williamsburg, Va.
Feb. 1 The Citadel Charleston, S.C.
8 V.M.I. Lexington, Virginia
13 Richmond Richmond, Virginia
16 Georgia Southern Statesboro, Ga.
20 Wake Forest Charlotte Coliseum
23 The Citadel Davidson
