She Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BILL HAGEN
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

EP WILLER
Business Manager

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

The Drinking Situation

The Queen's girls are excited about their drinking rule and whether they started this year or last we wish them the best. Drinking has again become a serious concern of the Student Council. The council has wisely moved to authorize a close committee study of the off-campus drinking rule. We hope their efforts will be taken just as seriously by the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life.

This week we would like to generally examine the control of drinking at Davidson College with the aim of simply presenting the situation as it now stands and making a few general observations. In the coming weeks, THE DAVIDSONIAN plans to closely follow the Student Council's actions on the news and editorial pages, and gradually sharpen what we think to be the more critical aspects of the drinking controls in an intelligent manner.

At present there are two broad branches of the drinking rule, both backed up by the “opposed as a matter of principle to the use of alcoholic beverages” clause in the regulations. The part of regulation (number four) that prohibits students from “drinking, possessing, or being under the influence of an alcoholic beverage while attending an off-campus event sponsored entirely or in part by Davidson College” is the section the Student Council is presently concerned with.

Although we don’t plan to go into this rule in depth at present, we mention as a statement of fact that this rule is vague and it has been unevenly applied. This was brought into sharp focus last year when eight members of the soccer team suddenly found themselves campused for drinking on a school-sponsored trip. They had wrongly assumed that they could do what Davidson students had done on trips before and still continue to do. At that time the Student Council protested the action and requested that the faculty, as a whole, alter its position on the regulation. It did not.

The second broad branch of the drinking regulations concerns drinking on-campus and parties. The former is, of course, explicitly forbidden. The only change in the on-campus regulation in recent years has been the Student Council and Honor Court’s deletion of the “under the influence” clause from the regulations they are bound to support. The faculty has kept this clause in its regulations.

When it comes to parties rules seem to fade in the background and interpretation becomes most important. There is no mention, as such, in the regulations of dance weekend after-parties. The only social event covered is the “one” function allowed each fraternity per semester. In reality, however, the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life has indicated that after-parties are under close scrutiny. Fraternities were warned before Homecoming that any incident, such as an accident, stemming from drinking at a party could result in some restriction of after-parties. We see this manifestation of the drinking controls as just as important, if not more so, as the off-campus clause. For this reason we hope the IFC will seriously consider studying this aspect just as the Student Council is currently studying the other. We saw what happened when eight men ran afoul of a similar rule last year. But the after-party “rule” is not even a rule. And its undefined consequences will affect 800 instead of 8.

For A New Meaning

Dr. Rhodes’s talk in Thursday chapel gives us pause. By the high standards which he described, there has been very little worship at Davidson lately. We cannot presume to speak for God, Whom we assume to be the object of the services at Davidson, but we do have definite reservations about His good pleasure at some of the exercises so far. We can say with some confidence, however, that very few students have been noticeably glistening with faith after Thursday chapels this year.

The system laid down by the Trustees requires two religious services per week. We shall not at this time elaborate on the Good (if there be any) or Evil of this. We should rather like to recommend a few ways in which the system, as it now stands, might be put to more effective use.

Sunday vespers is an orthodox Presbyterian church service. By setting and adhering to high standards of preaching, music, and general student conduct, this can be a meaningful experience for those who are seeking meaningful experiences.

Thursday chapel, however, is a different matter. Thus far, though some of the speakers have had relevant messages, the old, worn-out form has obscured what good might have come of them. We were gratified when Dr. Rhodes eliminated the farcical attempt to have hymns sung. We hope future speakers in chapel will do likewise. But Thursday chapel needs more than this minor change. Here is a splendid opportunity for experimentation with various forms of religiously oriented programs. We think it ought to be taken advantage of.

First of all, we need more outside speakers to tell us about activities of the Church which we don’t know about. Such developments as the East Harlem Parish and the Little Brothers of Jesus are bold new attempts to make the Church relevant to the modern age. We'd like someone to tell us about them.

Various types of programs ought to be presented, attempting to bring the various disciplines of the liberal arts into a Christian perspective. Dramatic presentations or readings of religious plays or poetry, explanation and performance of such profoundly religious music as Bach’s “In Adam's Fall,” religious films, and many other types of programs relating the various arts and sciences to the Church could help to bridge the gap between Davidson and the Church.

We would also like to see a program or two on Davidson College’s religious requirements and their purposes. A student forum on this matter with the chaplain, a Bible professor, or an administrator might prove enlightening. A speech on the reasoning and goals behind the college’s policy given by a qualified trustee would be desirable.

These are ideas we have come up with. We hope students will make their opinions and suggestions known to the chaplain, and we also hope that, in the very near future, attempts will be made to break out of the stifling old rites and into a bolder effort to relate Christianity to Davidson students.

J.K.A.
Associate Editor
Knox Abernethy

Editorial Assistant
Jim Williams

Assistant Editor
Bill Ruth

Managing Editors
David Stitt
Jeff Wampler

Sports Editor
Bill Pridgen

Assignments Editor
Charles Ramberg

Feature Editor
Greg Govan

News Editor
Charles Dibble

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Staff Members

Assistant News Editor
Jimmy Downey

Photographers
Joe McCutchen
Buck Lawrimore

Cartoonists
Dan Adams
Joe Howell
Walter MacDonald

Advertising Manager
Charlie Smith

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Ferre: Steadfast Love

Joins Theology And Life

BY HARRY DANTEL
Special YMCA Writer

(Editor's Note: This article is the first in a series of individual commentaries that will be run at regular intervals under the sponsorship of the YMCA.)

Has American theology come of age; has it anything to say about the question of meaning? Has it anything to say to the Davidson student? The answer to these questions is yes. It is relevant to the needs of the student generation.

Nels Ferre will be on campus next week as the Otts Lecturer. His theology is one of the most distinctive and dynamic found on the American scene. Dr. Ferre presents valid criteria by which we may analyze our questions and search for the answers.

Ferre is neither a fundamentalist nor a liberal. He feels that neither of these approaches really comes to grips with the real issues facing modern man. The purpose of theology in Ferre’s thought is to look at life from the perspective of the ultimate.

Troffer

Dear Editor:

Let me begin by congratulating Knox Abernethy on his Monday morning chapel coup — it was beautifully done and pointedly effective. The speech which followed was exceedingly fine too, and I wish to say that I have no quarrel with the great majority of its content. However, there was one point, emphasized to prove an important premise, which was such a gross distortion of history that I cannot let it pass unnoticed.

Information in this country about the shadowy Angolan rebellion is scant and vague. Abernethy has been in the region and undoubtedly knows the subject fairly well. Yet his words in chapel utterly neglected the whole story as it seems to be emerging. The cries of “atrocity!” which went up when the Portuguese air force napalmed native villages, and the Port-

The ultimate for Ferre is found in the concept of agape or self-sacrificing love. It is a self-giving love creative of fellowship. Ferre tends to see all of theology as well as life in relation to this agape. Thus for him Christianity is a religion of complete concern for all. Theology and life are united in this concept. Again agape enables Ferre to bring together both fundamentalism and liberalism, and to transcend both of these views in an all-embracing love.

Dr. Daniel Williams of Union Theological Seminary, New York, has pointed out that Ferre is seeking to unite “the Gospel theme that God is love with an attempt to understand the whole of our experience by seeing it in the perspective of faith." Dr. Williams continues that Ferre is strongly and deeply influenced by Alfred North Whitehead in seeking to develop a philosophical rationale of the Christian faith.

This agape as found in Dr. Ferre's thought has basically three characteristics. It is the distinctive motif of theChristian faith. It has its deepest meaning for man in the Christ event. For Ferre, love never fails; it reveals the sufficiency of God and as a result it is basically irresistible. Second, agape is the deepest truth in the universe. As truth, it demands the response of the whole man. For Ferre chooses to define religion as “the whole response to what is regarded as most important and most real.” Finally, agape is the highest ethical standard for man. At this point, Ferre identifies theology with life. Dean Cleland intimated at this when he suggested that the love ethic is characteristic of both the vertical and horizontal dimensions of man. Agape is the ‘way’ of the early Christians. I urge you to meet this man, to listen to what he has to say, and to really come to grips with his thought. For his life has been one of intense struggle with the issues and questions of the Christian faith. His theological thought is relevant to the questions that we as modern men must ask of ourselves and Christianity.

Chinese Threat Justifies U.S. Troops In Okinawa
BY DUDLEY SALLEY

As one of the “ignorant ruck” to whom headlines like “U.S. Ready to Sink Red Ship” appeal, I am compelled to question a recent local expression of World Public Opinion. The thesis of these remarks is that once the mind is opened, one should proceed to use it. Yes, 250 miles off the mainland of China lies the island of Okinawa, which has some 600,000 inhabitants—12,000 of whom have immigrated from Amami-Oshima, a sister island in the Ryukyu archipelago which reverted to the mother country in 1953. Okinawa has been colonized into Ft. Buckner to terminate Japan’s colonization, sic. occupation, without weakening the Far East defense network. This was accomplished against the people’s political sensitivities, as was the winning of the war; but full resistance of their will is tempered to a degree by their new living standard, as remarkable in its own region as that of another U.S. colony, West Germany. And I assure our Japanese observer that in three years’ residence on the island, I had many occasions to see the Japanese flag flying in school yards and over town halls. Popular calls for full reversion to Japan began in Nago in 1953 and culminated with the election of a communist mayor of the capital city, Naha. The issue flares semi-annually, but those most desperately displeased have emigrated to Japan or Bolivia. The removal of a village from its 300-year-old site for construction of a motor pool which was subsequently never used when the Marines assumed command was inexcusable, but any suggestion to give up the island would be more so, amounting in effect to a decision to forfeit Japan, South Korea, the Philippines, and the Teahouse of the August Moon to Red China. Ft. Buckner is also the base for the Seventh Fleet, which has been blockading Formosa since June 1950 to embargo shipment of Nationalist troops to the mainland. This blockade released 400,000 Chinese troops to fight against us in North Korea. Do we hear any calls to lift this blockade? I hardly think we would feel free to remove defensive troops from Florida if Chinese or Soviet destroyers were picketing between Havana and Key West. This difference in attitude explains the presence of U.S. missile sites on foreign soil. World opinion is assuredly more open-minded about such matters than we, but unfortunately, no more open-eyed and informed than the average American. Before resigning hysterically at the gruesome possibility of war, we should consider its probability. Probability, I believe, has something to do with past performance, in which the Soviets have been amazingly consistent and more rational than we want to admit. The “New Consensus” of U.S. opinion (i.e. liberal) may, as claimed by Chester Bowles (The Coming Political Breakthrough), hold the solution, but its validity in parts of the world which do not share his moral assumptions may be questioned. World opinion may wash out nationalistic logs, but to realize any sort of lasting international order through a mere negation of nationalism is to expect rather much from eye wash. The bar to whom we appeal will have to be of higher instance than World Public Opinion.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Angolan Atrocities Necessitate Portuguese Retaliation

The Portuguese army chopped down native prisoners wholesale, need qualification. The Salazar dictatorship is an exceedingly mild one by contemporary standards, and his government’s policy in their nasty little colony is to be highly commended. For the Angolan rebels to be considered “freedom fighters” is to make a mockery of a noble term. They are little more than animals, savages, and bandits whose crimes make the Mau-Mau look absolutely civilized. These rebels have been pictured in this country as idealists and patriots. Little has been told about their methods of fighting: about the planters who were forced to watch their children fed into buzz saws; about the women who were raped to death; about the men castrated and otherwise mutilated and then turned loose in the jungle to die hideous deaths; about the men whose eyelids were sliced off and then turned loose to die in terrible agony as the light got to work on their nerves... the list of crimes is among the most foul and inexcusable of this century—a dubious honor. To call these barbarians “freedom fighters” was an outright distortion. I have listed only a portion of their atrocities. Against such savagery, swift and massive retaliation is the only answer. The mass bombings, deportations, and executions may not make pleasant reading either. But they have worked. The rebellion, thank God, is now only a minor, sputtering ugliness, and no real threat. Respect for the black man is a fine thing and one which the white peoples must learn if they are to survive—but there are limits.

Bill Trotter

Brand

Dear Editor:

Now that Homecoming has come and passed, I feel that we should stop and evaluate the I.F.C.'s concerts. Last year they managed to have four very good concerts. This year they can only have three good ones, for the first was very poor. What is the cause of this? The I.F.C. told us that its booking agent had been unable to get the Four Freshmen to follow through and sign their contract. Why? I really don’t believe that it was money problems. If there is a guarantee in the contract, the deposit does not have to be that great. At least, it does not seem like it would to me. I feel that the I.F.C. should have a budget which should not call for more than a thousand dollars per fraternity, and secondly, they should begin in advance to arrange their concerts so that the best entertainment at the level which the budget allows will not be busy. I feel that if the I.F.C. became organized much better than it is now, they can continue the fine concerts that have been coming to Davidson in the past.

Rick Brand

Bergstrand

Dear Editor:

Those who listened to Dr. E. A. Patterson's extravagant speech on the UN last week in Charlotte might find it interesting to see this organization as it is seen from a neutral point of view. At its conception, the UN was meant to be an open forum of world debate and an arena for cooperation between the world’s great powers. These intentions were most admirable. This good spirit, however, did not last for more than a very short time. Today the United Nations has developed into a labyrinth of vetoes, deadlocks, and intrigues. The delegates, who meet daily, have so much to say about nothing and so many subtle accusations against each other that a spectator in the General Assembly might very well exclaim with A. E. Housman: “Terrence; this is stupid stuff!” All the same, let us hope that it is not just a matter of time until they spend their sessions drinking beer instead of “negotiating.” What can we do about this confusion? Maybe not very much. But we can try. A few neutral countries do their best to keep their big brothers from blowing up the world. Now and then a small country, like Sweden or Ireland, can come up with an idea of some kind. Usually, though, that does not do very much good. Why? Because some of the strong powers with the right to veto a decision (i.e. the U.S. or Nationalist China) interpret the idea and the situation differently from other equally strong powers (i.e. the Soviet Union). Both these interpretations, however, may be less accurate than those made by a third group. This group consists of a few countries which are regarded as very insignificant and do not even have the right to vote (e.g. Monaco or Red China). They might be able to grasp the idea, but so what? They cannot do a thing. All the while the five sages in the Security Council talk refined distinguished words that maybe only the speaker understands. This might be a way to avoid making the listeners nervous. But it is not very efficient when they want to make a point, if they ever want to make a point, of course. We think that our delegates now and then manage to accomplish something in the work for peace. They can do this because Sweden is a neutral country. Both sides have a certain amount of confidence in them. If the great powers listen for a minute or two to our voice, although it might not sound like poetry, and give us some, albeit condescending consideration, we think that our work was worthwhile and that we have reached our goal, i.e. conveyed some constructive ideas to those who have great power in their hands.

Jan Bergstrand