FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1962 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

HIGHLIGHTS and SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

WELCOME FORMER FOOTBALLERS

Dick Grey, Teeny Laferty, Olin Nisbet—these names mean a lot in the history of football at Davidson College. These men
will be sitting in the stands tomorrow, watching the game with the same interest with which they used to play.
There will be many others—Dr. Ledyard DeCamp, Dr. Thomas Sparrow, Price Gwynn, Allen Mills, Dr. Jim Hendricks, Jim Grey, Dick
O'Hair, and Dr. Paul Maulden. These men, and others who will be here tomorrow that we have not mentioned, while
perhaps not as great as the three mentioned above, filled out the squads of some of the best teams Davidson
ever produced. The important thing, however, is that these men, although they have left their playing days behind them, have
not forgotten Davidson or lost interest in its athletic program. All of them are members of the Wildcat Club, of
which Dr. DeCamp of Charlotte is currently serving as president. This club, in addition to its other activities, once took
over the providing of athletic scholarships to the team when other sources were unavailable. Several of these men have benefited
Davidson's athletics in other ways than supporting the Wildcat Club. “Doc” Lafar, George King, and Armfield, all of whom will
be in the stands tomorrow, are each responsible for one of the trophies presented to selected senior footballers each year.
Some of the men mentioned above are trustees of Davidson, and they also form the athletic committee of that organization.
We are grateful to these men for all they are doing, and all they have done for Davidson's athletics. We
would like to extend our thanks to them.

CRYSTAL BALL TIME AGAIN

Too much dust has been stirred up in tomorrow’s big homecoming tilt for us to see the outcome through the
crystal ball. We'll have to forego making any prediction on that one. All attempts at predicting victories for West Virginia
have turned out successfully for us, so we'll use the same formula this week. Another win for the rampaging Mountaineers.
Prediction: U. of West Virginia 15, Pittsburgh 7. Nothing could stop the young Gobblers from VPI if they play like
they played against tough Virginia last week, while supposedly strong. Richmond didn’t fare well at all against VMI two weeks
ago. Most of the glory tomorrow should go to VPI. Prediction: VPI 28, Richmond 7. VMI takes a wounded tiger
by the tail when they play host to Virginia. The Cavaliers will prove too much for the Kadets, even though
it is their homecoming game. Prediction: U. of Virginia 21, VMI 13. The Citadel’s jaunt up into Tennessee will prove
fruitless as Vanderbilt will be able to turn back the Bulldog attack. Prediction: Vanderbilt 28, The Citadel 0. In a
hard-fought contest between George Washington and Boston U., Boston should emerge on top. Still smarting from a loss to Southern
Conference strongman West Virginia, Boston wants to take it out on G.W. Prediction: Boston U. 13, George Washington 0. Furman,
although weaker than last year, still has enough power to take Howard, a team not too well known in these
parts. Prediction: Furman 14, Howard 7.

Whittlemen Take On The Citadel's Thinclads BY FORREST ROLES Sports Staff Writer

Tomorrow morning at 10:30 Davidson's cross-country team places its 1-1 record on the line against the harriers of Citadel. This
will be Citadel’s first meet of the season. Coach Heath Whittle evaluates the Citadel team as slightly better than the
team which lost 22-33 to the ‘Cats last year. “We expect plenty of competition,” he warned, also expressing concern about
the condition of his team as they will be running during a dance weekend and may not get enough sleep.
On the other hand, Whittle said that he expects sophomores Ronnie Reese, Denny Phillips, Chester Davis, and John Barrow to
improve their pacing with the experience they have gained in the last two meets. He feels that they have been
finishing too fresh. Whittle also said that he looks for Sterling Martin to lower the course record of 22 min.
35 sec. which he set against Pembroke last week, because the course was slow that day. The 'Cats’ next meet
will be with the powerful Paladins of Furman, whom Coach Whittle considers the team to beat in the conference. This
meet will be held at Furman Oct. 19. The triangular meet scheduled with VPI and Catawba at Salisbury was called
off because Catawba could not field a team. A meet has been rescheduled with VPI on Nov. 13.

W&M Homecoming

Headlining tomorrow afternoon’s homecoming tilt will be a band of wild Indians, William & Mary style, imported from Williamsburg, Va.
The game, starting at 2 p.m., should prove to be an exciting one, perhaps matching last year’s 31-30 thriller that
Davidson took in the final minutes. Both teams possess the potential to come out with a victory. A look over
the teams’ relative strengths would seem to give the Indians an edge this year. So far this season they have
two conference victories under their belt, VMI and The Citadel, and stand a good chance of copping the Southern Conference
crown. In their two non-conference games they lost to Virginia and Navy, but not without throwing a scare into both
teams, and dropping the Navy game by only 20-16. The Davidson squad can’t be counted out, however. The ’Cats carry
an impressive 3-1 record into the contest, and adding on to the 'Cats ferociousness is the fact that it will
be their homecoming. They'll be fighting to come out on the long end of the score.

W & M BEAT THE CITADEL

William & Mary put in an impressive performance last Saturday in dropping the Bulldogs from The Citadel to a 29-23
loss in a closely fought contest. The Indians fought hard all the way and didn’t score the winning touchdown until
late in the fourth quarter. Coach Bill Dole probably was making no exaggeration when he called them “one of the
best teams we'll play all fall.” There are several factors making the Indian squad so tough. One of the most
important of these is John Sapinsky, whose 260 pounds help make him “one of the most feared linemen.” In the
backfield there is Charlie Wear, who seemed to have a knack for “weaving” through The Citadel’s defenses last week. At
quarterback there is no lack of talent either. Both Dan Henning and Dan Armour share the honors, with Henning doing
most of the passing.

‘Pups Drop ‘Kittens

Last night The Citadel Bullpups gridders 15-8 in a tight game at Union, S. C. The ’Kittens picked up two
more points in the second quarter when Steve Smith ran a blocked kick into the end zone to make the
score 7-6. The Bullpups scored again in the third quarter and the ’Kittens on a safety. Sid Tompkins failed in
a fourth quarter bid to tie the score when he was tackled on his own 35-yard line after a long
runback of an intercepted pass. The frosh squad was unable to turn the interception into a score and the game
ended 15-8.

Anyone interested in trying out for the freshman basketball team should report to the gymnasium Monday night, October 15, at
7:45. Coach Harry would like for all freshmen interested in playing freshman tennis to meet him at1:30 Monday afternoon at
the tennis courts. Coach Charlie Parker announced that practice will begin at 4 p.m. All those interested, both freshman and
varsity, should report to the gym.

The pups downed Davidson's frosh. The ‘Kittens scored their only point. The ‘Cats will have trouble finding any nicks in
William & Mary’s armor, since the Indians are described as having a “fine well-rounded club.” Another of the more impressive
features of the whole Indian squad is that “they're big!” Coach Dwight Shue reported the Indian squad to be big
and strong.

WELL BALANCED ATTACK
Against The Citadel, the Indians carried on a well-balanced attack from both a wing T and a slot offense, gaining
about as much on the ground as in the air. The Citadel was forced to resort mainly to passes since
they had difficulty moving against the big Indian line. Dole doesn’t expect to be at full strength tomorrow, having had
several players shaken up in the P.C. game that might not be able to return to the lineup. Dole also
said that Tom Worrell will be playing a lot more at halfback this week. One point that Dole did make
was that the team “has got to play better ball this week than last if they plan to take this
one.”

P.C. GAME CLOSE
Although not unhappy about the outcome of last week's game, saying “We're happy anytime we can get a win from
P.C.,” he pointed out that the team’s performance was not what he thought it should be. The Wildcats took that
game from the “Blue Hose” in a 13-9 thriller which looked bad for the ’Cats until they were able to
mount a scoring drive in the fourth quarter.

Cat Booters Hosts For Appalachian Squad Today
Despite a 7-3 loss last Tuesday to North Carolina, Davidson's soccer team is, in the words of Fred Schoen, “really
pointing for this Friday's game with Appalachian.” The game started this afternoon at 3 p.m. Appalachian was victorious over the
Wildcat booters last year, and so far this season has lost a squeaker to Lynchburg. “They have a goalie that
is ten feet tall and ten feet wide,” Coach Fogleman ruefully quipped. As far as explaining the loss to UNC,
he said that the team was simply outplayed, outpowered, outrun, and, unfortunately, outscored. Though some of the team expressed their
opinion of the game in more forceful and vivid terms, moderate-mouthed Tarby Bryant echoed Fogleman’s analysis.

FOUR GOALS
Four goals in two games is the record of booter FRED SCHOEN, shown here working the ball into the net.
His talent of booting could lead the soccer squad to a good year.

FOOTBALL
VMI
William & Mary
West Virginia
George Washington
The Citadel
Davidson
Richmond
Furman
VPI

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE STANDINGS
Won Lost
2 0
2 0
1 0
2 1
1 1
0 1
0 1
0 1
0 3

Flickerball’s champions, the co-champions, the Kappa Sigs and the Betas, were off and running again this week. Both remained the
only two unbeaten teams in this year’s race. With an awesome display of offensive power, the Kappa Sigs swept by
victims number five and six this week, while the Betas were winning their fifth straight game. Meanwhile, the KA’s won
their fifth game against one loss for a third-place standing, and the Independents took their fourth win against one setback
for fourth place.

Monday’s games went as follows: Bob Gregory and his Independents pulled somewhat of a minor upset by clipping the ATO’s,
12-4. The Sigma Chis rolled by the Sigma Nus, 39-7. The Kappa Sigs, led by defensive aces P. Bear, Johnny
Almond, and Harry Tart, and offensive stars Jim Hendrix, Rick Lowery, and Gnasty Gnome, completely demolished the Sig Eps, 91-7.
The Phi Delts, paced by Nat Harris, beat the Pi Kapps, 36-6.

Wednesday's results: The Betas blanked the Phi Gams, 20-0, behind the play of Jimmy Lewis and Albert James. The SAE’s,
with the capable play of Suitcase Simpson and Roy Smythe, beat the Pi Kapps, 33-18. Paul Duvall and George Sledge
led the ATO’s by the Pikas. The Phi Delts whipped the Sigma Nus.

Yesterday’s results: Dee Fuller paced the Independents in their 27-6 victory over the Sig Eps. The Kappa Sigs rolled again,
this time by the Sigma Chis, 72-0. Squirrel Russell and Haynes Kelley led the KA’s as they defeated the Pi
Kapps, 27-12. Ip Roberts, Steve Arthur, and scrappy Sam White stood out in the ATO’s win over the Phi Gams.

STANDINGS
The team was simply outplayed, outpowered, outrun, and, unfortunately, outscored. Though some of the team expressed their opinion of the
game in more forceful and vivid terms, moderate-mouthed Tarby Bryant echoed Fogleman’s analysis.

‘CATS SIMPLY OUTCLASSED
They were in better shape and simply outclassed us,” he maintained. UNC employed very tiring tactics, keeping our backs on
the defensive. But the result was not as dismal as it seemed. This is the first time in years that
Davidson has scored on these rivals, and the three goals that the ‘Cats racked up were the most that any
team has scored on Carolina this year. Fogleman was satisfied with most of the play, but pointed out that there
were lapses where the opponents went over the edge and scored. “It was a clean, hard-fought game,” he said. Schoen
summarized it up by explaining, “This is by far the hardest game of the season, and we were not at
full strength. I think we'll do all right during the remainder of the season.”

IMAC Flickerball Schedule
Field
Monday 4 p.m.
KA vs. Sigma Nu
Pika vs. SPE
Phi Delt vs. Kappa Sig
Ind. vs. Sigma Chi

Wednesday 4 p.m.
Beta vs. ATO
SAE vs. Sigma Nu
Phi Gam vs. SPE
KA vs. Kappa Sig

Thursday 4 p.m.
Pika vs. Sigma Chi
Phi Delt vs. Ind.
Pi Kapp vs. Sigma Nu
Beta vs. SPE

Friday 4 p.m.
SAE vs. Kappa Sig
Sigma Chi vs. Phi Gam
KA vs. Ind.
Pika vs. Phi Delt

DAVID LOPP
Lopp-Wildcat Of Week
BY DENNY PHILLIPS
Sports Staff Writer

Junior halfback Dave Lopp is “Wildcat-of-the-Week” for his fine all-round play in last week’s Presbyterian game. He intercepted a Presbyterian
pass in the end zone with less than a minute to play. Lopp played an outstanding game both offensively and
defensively, explained Coach Bill Dole. Lopp proved the offer mark for the last game. He kept the rout ce less.
Lopp played football in high school all 16 years of his schooling in Lexington, N.C., standing out and being admitted
to Davidson. He tried out and proved himself. Lopp said he has been playing the past formula, but it is
everybody’s. He is a leader on defense.

GRIMACING FEROCIOUSLY, basketballer TERRY HOLLAND lumbers down the track as COACH “LEFTY” DRIESELL gives his boys some pre-season running. Regular
practice for the hoopsters starts Monday. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

WELCOME ALUMNI
DROP IN AND SEE OUR FINE FALL SELECTION WHILE YOU'RE IN TOWN
Rush Wilson Ltd.

Certainly, there is no more interesting shirt than the perfectionist with the tab collar. The extraordinary cut of this design
guarantees a look that is infinitely correct and infinitely interesting. Assuredly, this is a design with finesse in the most
authentic manner.
©1960-Gent Shirtmakers
Rush Wilson Ltd.
