PAGE FOUR

Robert Currie, business manager of the college, gave that reason for the building activity that is going on and has
gone on for the past summer.

Currie said that his office is now completing the smaller details of a building program that was begun when the
college trustees decided in 1955 to increase enrollment to 1000 students. During the program, new dormitory space was provided, and
the Dana Science Hall and the Cunningham Fine Arts Center were constructed.

SHADES OF GINKGO — exist no more. Only a pitfall remains under the window of a Davidsonian feature writer. He
was so antagonized by the arresting aroma last year that he seized the mighty pen....

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Ye who doubt the power of the press, beware. While you're at it, remember the Ginkgo biloba, female. There used
to be two of these creatures in Janitor’s Quadrangle between Belk and Little Dormitories. But that was before student “down
with the stink” campaigns hit THE DAVIDSONIAN. The two coal age relics which had been aptly renamed the barfberry trees
were the subject of varied and heated debate as their savory fruit ripened and fell to be crushed under the
heel of unsuspecting Weejuns.

Faced with the possibility of many dates lost on a cross-country monorail lobby and the unaccountable disappearance of dance weekend
dates, the Administration at last decided to blacktop the walkway. The Class of '66 has the DAVIDSONIAN to thank, in
part, for this summer the college abandoned moving the trees to Queens. The ROTC department refused to put a flag
on them. Finally, in line with world population explosion interest, an effort was made to spray the offenders and reduce
their all too copious yield. But ginkgo fertility outstripped chemistry and there was at last no recourse, so the ax,
and the Ginkgo biloba, fell. Beware again, for last spring as the monsoons were setting in, a DAVIDSONIAN article proclaimed,
“College authorities silent as students sink in goo.” Furor shifted from the now-dormant barfberry trees to the trans-Patterson court mud
caldron.

J. Randolph Taylor To Speak Sunday

Dr. J. Randolph Taylor, pastor of the Church of the Pilgrims of Washington, D. C., will deliver the service of
the fall semester. The service will begin at 7:30 tomorrow evening.

A native of Georgia, Dr. Taylor was graduated from Davidson in 1951. He served as president of the student body
his senior year and was a member of Kappa Sigma, Phi Beta Kappa, and ODK. Dr. Taylor did post-graduate work
at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond and later received his doctorate at Edinburgh. His dissertation was recently published by John
Knox Press.

The vesper service for freshmen will be held at the same time in Hodson Hall. The sermon will be preached
by the Rev. George M. Webb, pastor of The First Presbyterian Church of Shelby. He was graduated from Davidson in
1942.

(Continued From Page One)

either with the mission or with the Congolese government. Ben was the exception. At a missionary conference, it was announced
that he was being given a full ten-year scholarship to do a complete medical course in the United States. And
so, in June 1961, Ben came to America. He spent the first two months at the Institute of Foreign Languages
in Washington, D. C., studying English for the first time. Last year he attended the Pan-American High School in Kingsville,
Texas, preparing to enter college. In May he took the College Board Examinations and applied to Davidson College. For the
second time, he spent the summer in Washington, studying English at the Institute and mathematics at Howard University. At the
end of these courses, he was asked to stay there for another month to help in the training program for
the Peace Corps, and he served them as an informant in French until he came to Davidson on Sept. 6.
Ben will take the regular BS course at Davidson and then go on to medical school before returning to the
Congo as a doctor.

About 50 new minerals are added to the current 1,200-1,500 distinctive minerals each year.

Out Of 5 College Men Come To Johnson's Barber Shop

“We have tried this summer to make changes in existing facilities in order to meet the changes now being made
in teaching methods,” Currie said. The Dome Room of Chambers has been converted into a 175-seat lecture room. When finished,
as it soon will be, the dome will be air-conditioned, acoustically improved, and will have facilities for the use of
audio-visual equipment. “While the new Humanities course will use the dome as a lecture room, the work was not done
solely for that reason,” Currie stressed. “Any time it is desirable to bring other classes together for lectures, the dome
can be used. That is the reason we have provided such a large number of seats.”

There is new furniture in the basements of the Eumenean and Philanthropic Halls to make it possible for two seminar
rooms to be in each basement. Humanities will use these four rooms; seminars will also be held in them.

The language lab is now at the north end of Chambers on the third floor and features forty booths instead
of last year’s twenty-four. The control room is in the center of the lab. Twenty-four of the booths to the
left of the control room will be used by students with language lab assignments, the same as last year.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

College Finishes Plant Changes, Plans More

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“The many observable changes better accommodate the 1005 students. Equipment is new, and there is much enthusiasm being expressed by
language professors over the improved facilities. The above three changes were made possible through the Duke Endowment. The Endowment also
made it possible for the college to build two all-weather tennis courts. Work on them is nowbeing finished. The south
basement of Chambers has been completely refinished in order to provide office space for the new Department of Public Relations
and Development. That basement also contains an area for faculty services such as mimeographing, a space for automatic filing systems
should the college decide to mechanize its record and administrative system, and space for a computer. Currie said that the
college is now studying seriously the question of acquiring a computer to be used for instructional purposes. Such a machine
would give science, math, and business majors a chance to familiarize themselves with something that will be an important part
of their lives upon graduation.

Smaller changes in the college plant see a new walkway in the center of Patterson Fraternity Court, a new circulation
desk in the reserve reading-room of the library, and the renovation of Dr. Walter L. Lingle’s former residence into a
social spot for independents. Currie said that as soon as the college could acquire enough funds, an addition would be
made to the College Union. Present plans call for the extension to run from the cafeteria terrace to the road
leading to the parking circle behind Chambers. The addition would make it possible to place the student store, the Knovel
Knook, and the College Book Store in one central location along with a games room. Space thus gained would be
used for additional eating space, Currie said.

Other future plans of the business office call for a walkway to be built from the Concord Road to Johnston
Gymnasium, a new boiler for the heating plant, and better equipment to help the laundry improve its cleaning methods. Currie
also commented that the college is in the process of acquiring land on Lake Norman that will be only five
miles from the campus.

Vagabonds Present Fall Season Schedule

The Greek play, Agamemnon, scheduled for Sept. 27-29 will be the first production of the Vagabonds’ Fall Season. The closing
show will be held in the Fred Hetzel Playhouse, it is being done again by popular demand at Hodson Hall.
The lead role of Agamemnon is played by Dr. Goodykoontz, who describes it as one of the “best” plays he
has been associated with. Following Agamemnon, The Man Who Came to Dinner will lighten Hodson Hall Oct. 16-19. Bertolt Brecht’s
Galileo will be presented Nov. 14-17. The final production of the fall season, Winterset, will be shown Dec. 11-13.

Tryouts for The Man Who Came to Dinner and Galileo will be held Sept. 19-20 in the Fine Arts Building.
New students interested in drama are urged to read for parts. No previous experience is necessary. Tryout scripts will be
available at the Vagabond office Monday night before the tryouts.

Everyone interested in drama is invited to a barbecue dinner Monday, Sept. 17 at 6:40 p.m. The dinner, held in
front of the Fine Arts Building, will cost $1.25 per plate. Entertainment in the Fine Arts Building will follow the
dinner. Walter Bost, Vagabond graduate, will perform “Swan Song,” a one-act play by Chekov. Those attending the dinner will be
given reserved seats but anyone else is invited to come for the program which will start about 7:30.

New Faculty Members

Erich-Oskar J. S. Wruck is assistant professor of German, and he has A.B. and M.A. degrees from Rutgers University. E.
F. Miller, who has A.B. and M.A. degrees from Emory University, is a new instructor in political science. H. S.
Willcox is instructor in mathematics. Willcox has an A.B. from Stetson and an M.S. from Florida State University. Both the
Athletic and Military Departments have a new member. William W. Salzer, Jr., a graduate of Davidson, is assistant football coach.
Captain Charles C. Partridge has been assigned to the ROTC Department as assistant professor of military science and tactics.

Jesse C. Albergotti, who has recently completed work for his Ph.D. at the University of North Carolina, is now assistant
professor of physics. He has a B.S. from Wheaton College. Walter E. Meeks, with A.B. and M.A. degrees from the
University of Alabama, is assistant professor of French. He comes to Davidson after teaching at the University of Florida. He
has a B.M. from the University of Texas and an M.A. from the University of Chicago.

Conservative Club to Meet Tuesday

The Conservative Club will hold its first meeting of the school year Tuesday night at 7:30 in Philanthropic Literary Hall.
Both freshmen and upperclassmen interested in the advancement of political thought in general and conservative thought in particular are invited
to the open meeting. Plans for the year will be revealed at the informal meeting which will be followed by
a coffee hour. The Conservative Club was organized on campus last year for the purpose of espousing individual freedom, minimum
government, and a strong national defense.

Adler Shape-Up Socks

The Adler Shape-Up is guaranteed not to fall down or your money back! It’s the first cotton crew sock that
is. In men’s sizes, white 79¢, eight great ivy colors, 89¢ a pair. At fine stores. The Shape-Up, by Adler,
available in white and colors at Rush Wilson Ltd.
