Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Bill Hagen
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

Ed Willer
Business Manager

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Virtue In Vagueness?

The Academic Freedom Committee of the American Civil Liberties Union has said: “Regulations governing the behavior of students should be
fully and clearly formulated, published, and made available to the whole academic community. They should be reasonable and realistic.”

Now let’s look at our rule concerning the “Use of Alcoholic Beverages” (and this is one rule you can’t state
too many times). In part it says: “A student will ordinarily be suspended if he is found guilty of drinking,
possessing or being under the influence of an alcoholic beverage . . . while attending any off-campus event sponsored entirely
or in part by Davidson College.”

On the surface it appears very clear. . . But in fact many of the “clear” words are open to
wide interpretation—interpretation that has been subject to change.

By an “off-campus event sponsored entirely or in part by Davidson College,” we suppose that the regulation refers to financial
sponsorship. But, as has been pointed out, this is not ironclad. For instance, if the faculty wanted to take some
action against after-parties it could conceivably do so under this rule even though these parties are not financially sponsored by
the college! It’s all a matter of interpretation.

And what is an “off-campus event?” We are forced to rely solely on word-of-mouth in this matter. We think it
means all college-sponsored trips. But what if you use your own funds to make the trip? We think it means
that everyone who drank at the U. Va. game violated the regulation. But we don’t know.

Going into the rule further, what does “attending any off-campus event” precisely mean? The eight soccer players who were campused
last year obviously didn’t drink at the game. Does this mean the trip was an event? They “attended” a trip?
Last year it was indicated that if a student went to a conference right before a holiday, say in New
York, and decided to stay through the holiday, he would violate the drinking rule if he imbibed during that holiday.
Does this mean that those of us who went to the parties at U. Va. after the game are guilty?
It’s a pretty hazy point...

The only sure way to clear up some of these points would seem to lie in the area of convictions
(‘A student will ordinarily be suspended. . . ”). What is an ordinary case? Last year three student leaders bypassed
any problem of interpretation by candidly admitting to faculty members that they had, without a doubt, broken the rule. No
action was taken. Later the soccer team case came up and they were campused. Extraordinary?

Is there a virtue in this vagueness? We can see none. The rule obviously needs to be clarified, if not
overhauled.

A Change For Some

We appreciatively acknowledge the letters which we have received concerning religious life at Davidson—and we hope that we have not
been misunderstood. We have never intended to belittle or obscure the operations of other individuals and committees in this area;
indeed, we have tried to assist them in their efforts with our suggestions. We also agree that the problem basically
rests in student apathy and cynicism. But recognition of this fact alone is not enough, and it often tends to
result in more apathy and cynicism.

It is unfortunate indeed that neither editorials nor even letters will completely destroy the ubiquitous dragon of apathy. At any
rate, like Sisyphus, we at least ought to keep on trying. We do believe, however, that an overhauling of the
college’s present religious program in an attempt to bring it more directly to bear on the lives and thinking of
the students would be more likely to make a change in some individuals’ attitudes than a despairing continuation of the
present system. Therefore, we continue to support the efforts of concerned persons and groups to improve the religious climate here,
and continue to hope that the result will be a turn for the better, if not for the best.

Peace Race

Sunday, November 11, was Veterans’ Day, formerly known as Armistice Day. It commemorates the end of World War I, and
for many years has been the occasion for a reassertion of the need for a repudiation of war and a
more effective movement towards peace. The reading of anti-war poetry that night was such a reassertion, a grim reminder of
the monstrous ugliness of war. We need continually to remind ourselves that nuclear war is not a sort of trump
card or ace in the hole. It is not a solution to any of the world’s problems.

At the end of World War I, General MacArthur stated, “The utter destructiveness of war now blots out this alternative
(i.e. unlimited warfare). We have had our last chance. If we do not devise some greater and more suitable system,
Armageddon will be at our own door. The problem basically is theological and involves a spiritual recrudescence and improvement of
human character that will synchronize with an almost matchless advance in science, art, literature, and all material and cultural developments
of the past 2,000 years. It must be of the spirit if we are to save the flesh.”

Today, however, the cries against the bestiality of war are too often labelled “pink” or “communist,” as if peace itself
were some sort of Red conspiracy. We must break down these suspicions of peace and recall the words of the
Beatitudes, “Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the children of God.” Nor can we allow peace to
be equated with appeasement. Rather, we must, as a nation, demonstrate a positive and sincere desire for peace. Today, we
are faced with the hard reality that arms races in the past have always ended up in warfare, and, secondly,
that war today means the disintegration of our nation and society, if not of our entire species. Let this knowledge
and the honor of the millions slain both in the past and present spur us on in working for an
end to wars and rumors of wars and for an increasingly active concern for peace.

J.K.A.

Associate Editor
Knox Abernethy

Editorial Assistant
Jim Williams

Assistant Editor
Bill Ruth

Managing Editors
David Stitt
Jeff Wampler

Sports Editor
Bill Pridgen

Assignments Editor
Charles Ramberg

Feature Editor
News Editor
Greg Govan
Charles Dibble

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Staff Assistant News Editor
Jimmy Downey

Photographers
Joe McCutchen
Buck Lawrimore

Cartoonists
Dan Adams
Joe Howell
Walter MacDonald

Advertising Manager
Charlie Smith

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Our New Cut System?

NOVEMBER 16, 1962

M | T | W | T | F | S
1 | 2 | 3
4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10
11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 | 17
18 | 19 | 20 | 21 | 22 | 23 | 24
25 | 26 | 27 | 28 | 29 | 30

DAVIDSONIAN CONCERT NEWS MEETING BIBLE WEEKEND

Reynolds Lecture

THANKSGIVING HOLIDAYS

Erskine Conference Presents Challenge To Coolness

BY BOB HOLLADAY

Man is estranged from his fellow man and from his own world. Two ideologies are dividing the earth as one
might rip in half an apple with one’s bare hands. People, in their efforts for other people, are sweating. One
human being kicks another human being in the teeth because the first hates black skin. These are gritty, jagged, unyielding
things we are saying here, but they have been said before; they will be said again. Of most importance to
the Davidson campus, they were said at the meeting of the Southern Area Student Council of YMCAs held five weeks
ago in Gatlinburg, Tennessee.

These ideas towered above the ordinary business procedures, the elections, the fiscal affairs, the miscellaneous areas of concern germane to
any meeting, and they would not loosen their hold on us. The concepts discussed were many and varied. The first
was understanding. Understanding of man himself, of his fellow creatures, of his world, of his God. Understanding is the key
to man’s isolation. Nick Patinos, a Y-sponsored World Service worker stationed in Quito, Ecuador, extended to us this key of
life. It and other keys are forever being offered. But how often do we accept them? How often even do
we reach?

Every day the Russian nation hastens its purposeful stride toward pulling from beneath...

NSA Indefinable; Structure Changes Yearly

BY JOHN SPRATT
Student Body Vice President

It would be impossible to write a definitive, all-inclusive statement about the National Student Association. The organization is many things
to many people. To be frank, it is probably something less than its avid proponents claim, yet more than what
its enemies portray. This problem of defining NSA is made no easier by the fact that each year it undergoes
a rebirth. Each year the national congress revises its policy and installs a new slate of officers. The temperament of
the organization, like the temperament of the delegates, is subject to annual change.

Several weeks ago, a DAVIDSONIAN editorial stated that NSA had passed resolutions against the House Committee on Un-American Activities. What
the editorial failed...to mention, however, was that the 1962 Congress of NSA did not even formally bring the matter of
HUAC to the floor. This is all indicative of the real nature of NSA. It is hardly a movement to
unite students in a monolithic cause. It is more like a forum or a clearing house. Its political philosophy is
plastic enough to reflect the ideas of its members in the framework of NSA’s aspirations. These aspirations were engendered in
the years following the Second World War. Partly in response to national student demands, and partly in response to a
growing international student movement, the aspirations in 1947 were formulated into a constitution.

The United States was late in forming a national student organization. Most European nations had long since possessed one. Yet,
though American students followed the Europeans, they ultimately did not imitate their common form. NSA became a confederation of student
bodies and not a union of individual students. This, to me, is of utmost importance. Had the American association of
students been a union of students instead of a confederation, it probably would have never assumed its present stature and
probably would never have deserved it. Under the present system, it serves the student community, the student government, and the
student body. But more important, its chances of being a body representative of all students is much greater. As a
union, it would likely have migrated towards some political pole. As a confederation, it can accommodate diverse opinion. It can
remain flexible enough to serve changing attitudes. It may elude definition, but it remains an open forum for ideas.

At our feet are the very foundations of the ways we talk to one another, the foundations of the whys
and the hows that saturate our moments. Are these foundations solid, or have we forgotten exactly how their timbers are
joined? Representatives who had made the USA-USSR exchange visit challenged us to ensure the security of our foundations by becoming
fully aware both of them and of the nature of our opponent. The open wound of social injustice festers literally
next door. Men created equal are reduced to stifled voices and to subservience. A proposal up for action before the
national body of YM-YWCAs suggests sponsorship of voter registration drives and of citizenship training schools as a Christian share in
restoring to a people its dignity. But will any of our unfettered voices make reply to this call?

As I said, these are gritty, jagged, unyielding concepts, and at the meeting I couldn't help relating them to our
own campus and to the tenuous picture I had carried away of the Davidson Gentleman: the smooth, sophisticated, natural-shoulder man,
so well-rounded that all the corners which catch new ideas have been smoothed away; the man who causes his international
guests to gather in groups of their own, because he is apparently too disinterested to learn from them and to
help them learn from him; the man who squirms in his seat while one of today’s leading political thinkers—granted, who
is no orator—speaks his cause from the platform. And I wondered just how much these ideas would come alive in
the Davidson Gentleman's mind.

I came to Davidson expecting to be challenged by big issues, and I expected to hear from upperclassmen who were
vehement in their feelings toward those issues. I'd read about people on other campuses doing important things; I thought I’d
find them here. But I was disappointed. And now from Gatlinburg the YMCA brings big ideas, issues that prompt emotions
to be felt like razors touching the raw core of the soul. The Y plans to move these ideas, it
says. I look at the Davidson Gentleman. I look at myself. And, feeling a cold-metal kind of hope, I wonder.

THAT ISN'T “PUNTING”, THAT'S “KICKING-OFF"!

Martin Represents

By MacDonald

Galileo “Movin’ ely”

BY BILL TROTTER
Davidsonian Fine Arts Critic

In his first, and it is to be hoped, not his last, solo job of directing a Vagabond production, Don
Stowell pulled a remarkable rabbit out of a somewhat shaky hat last Wednesday night in GALILEO. From occasional visits to
the rehearsals, I had expected the worst, and fortunately, found my expectations dashed. Brecht's remarkable concept of the story of
the famous Renaissance scientist was done full justice. As Galileo, D. G. Martin, Jr. acquitted himself well. The role demands
a great deal from a player, especially in the great number of lines it involves. There was, to be sure,
roughness—dropped cues, fumbled lines, at one time a painful dead space. But these are surface faults, and will certainly lessen
as the play takes on polish.

Brecht’s conception of Galileo is a particularly complex one—he is shown as no Ayn Randish hero-creator ruthlessly driving himself in
pursuit of knowledge for its own sake; he is a weak-willed, compromising genius, one who “fills his belly by using
his brains,” a prey to ego, to ambition, and most of all to the sensual pleasure of staying alive. His
confession in the face of torture might seem cowardly, if both Brecht and Martin did not make the audience feel
the man’s plight so deeply. Martin’s portrayal is obviously deeply felt and at times, very moving. The role calls for
him to age a space of many care-filled years without benefit of make-up; his slouching, world-worn Galileo of the last
scenes indeed conveys his age, his agony.

The staging of the production (Brecht does not indicate stage directions) was superb, thanks to Stowell’s ideas, and Greg Govan’s
adroit handling of a part that could be clumsy. The use of slides projected on the screen was handled with
taste and it is a pity that the effect was almost negligible from the audience. The roles which support Galileo
were handled well. Tom Hamilton played several small roles with vigor; Geoffrey Luckock was engaging and delightful in his pair
of supporting roles; John Pruitt and Bill Jacobs played disciples of the scientist with sincerity and meaning. A special word
of praise to Pat Douglas, whose acting in the part of Andrea was nothing less than hair-raising; and to Sue
Logan, as Galileo’s well-meaning, but misunderstanding daughter.

The play contained a lot of implications for this, our beloved Liberal Arts college. Not the least of them was
the fact that there were five of its students in an audience of really pathetic size. The irony, if not
the tragedy of this fact, must have made the cast wonder what use there was in playing their hearts out.
It is to be sincerely hoped that the students can find the time, somehow, to attend a production their school
can be proud of.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Vespers Outlook Needs Changing

Fain

Dear Editor:

Three cheers for Joe McCutchen! In his letter to the editor last week he hit the proverbial nail right on
its well-known head. Davidson students have, for some time, been protesting against required Vespers and Chapel on the basis of
a lack of capable speakers. They claim that they believe in having a meaningful and worshipful service, that they truly
want this kind of service, but they also claim that the caliber of these services so far has been such
that no meaningful or worshipful experience can be obtained. Who are you kidding, Davidson students?

The problem has been stated correctly—students are not experiencing true worship; the fault lies in the reason for this. Meaning
can be found in a service in which the students merely go and sit in Chambers Auditorium or the College
Church for a 45-minute period (no minister or speaker present) if students go there with that purpose in mind. At
the same time, not even the greatest orator of our time could transform an uninterested, half-asleep group of students into
an interested, worshipping group. Perhaps Davidson's services do not contain what is desired, but perhaps what is desired is not
really a worship experience. There are many ways in which the services can be improved through varied speakers and new
approaches to topics, but the best way to improve the services is to improve the individual’s outlook toward them. It
is an established fact that what one receives from something depends on what he puts into it. Let’s change the
outlook on Chapel and Vespers or else find a more valid reason for not wanting them.

George R. Fain

Sexy Dates, UCLA Style

(ACP) — Remember the Life magazine picture a few years ago of some men at the University of Kentucky operating
a fake registration booth for frosh women? Well, a trio at Los Angeles, California, did. The UCLA DAILY BRUIN says
the three students set up a card table and signs in the middle of registration lines and established themselves as
“Station A” for “registration of frosh women for the campus directory.” The trio rated each girl for sex appeal on
a one-to-ten scale as she filled out a card calling for her phone number and address. Before running out of
cards (they had 400), the three found some who rated from One (“just a girl, but not worth picking up
the pencil for”) to Seven (“unbelievably great”). Classes Eight, Nine and Ten were purely academic, since no coed was found
luscious enough to merit such ratings. The three will be generous in sharing the cards since they expect to be
overly supplied with dates during the coming year.
