& POLLEY REVIEWS, | ‘CATS HOST BOOK-OF-THE-YEAR: | | 7 T YALE TOMORROW (See Page Two): —— The News and
Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1962 NUMBER TWENTY-ONE VOL. L DANA AND
SCHOLARS — Paper Sets Golden Special In commemoration of its Golden Anniversary, THE DAVIDSONIAN will publish a special eight-page edition
on Thursday, April 5. As part of the celebration, Dr. Frank Wilson Price, editor of the first DAVIDSONIAN, will be
the guest speaker in chapel that morning. The first edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN was published on April 1, 1914. Although
the newspaper is not 50 years old, this year’s is the 50th volume, since one volume was published DR. FRANK
PRICE during the summer months of 1944. The commemorative edition, the last issue to be published by the present staff,
will present the evolution of various campus issues, as well as outstanding news stories over the years. A copy of
the special DAVIDSONIAN will be sent to all alumni of the college by the Alumni Office. On Thursday evening, the
annual DAVIDSONIAN banquet for staff and writers will be held in the College Union. Dr. Price, who is currently on
the faculty at Mary Baldwin College, will be on the campus all day Thursday as guest of THE DAVIDSONIAN. A
former missionary to China, Price graduated from Davidson in 1915, having been a member of Sigma Upsilon and Phi Beta
Kappa as well as newspaper editor. After his graduation, Price became principal of Hillcrest School in Nanking, China. In 1919,
he returned to America, where he was ordained by the Presbyterian Church. He has since spent a number of years
in China and the Far East as missionary, teacher, and lin- Philanthropist Charles A. Dana, the man who discovered small
colleges, is shown with Dana Scholars Stefan Young and David Suter at the banquet given in his honor Tuesday night.
(Staff Photo by McCutchen) Dines With Charles A. Dana, Connecticut automobile parts manufacturer and educational philanthropist, arrived on the Davidson
campus this past Tuesday afternoon. Mr. Dana was accompanied on his two-day visit by Dr. Henry Littlefield, Vice President of
the Dana Foundation and also Vice President of the University of Bridgeport. This Tuesday evening, at a banquet held in
his honor in the Morrison room of the College Union, Mr. Dana was presented with a book of letters by
the Dana scholars. Each scholar contributed to the book a personal letter telling of his present accomplishments in college and
of his plans for the future. After spending the night in the home of President Martin, Mr. Dana used much
of Wednesday to confer with presidents of other colleges about Dana programs of aid. He also met many of the
faculty members who have come to Davidson in the past year, and Wednesday afternoon he was the guest of the
Duke Power Company in inspecting the newly constructed Cowan's Dam and Lake Norman. After spending Wednesday night and Thursday morning
at Davidson, Mr. Dana departed at about 2:00 o'clock in the afternoon. Panel Confronts Bennett The Book-of-the-Year program will get
underway Monday night, March 26, as Dr. John C. Bennett arrives on the Davidson campus to present his book Christianity
and Communism Today. There will be a banquet at 6 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union followed
by a panel discussion in Chambers auditorium at 8 p.m. Panel members will be Mr. David Gillespie, Associate Editor of
the CHARLOTTE OBSERVER; Mr. John P. Kennedy, a prominent Charlotte lawyer and currently a Democratic candidate for Congress from this
district; Professor Edmund T. Weisant, professor of Russian at Queens College who has traveled extensively in Russia; and Dr. John
Wilson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Kannapolis. Dr. Max Polley will be the moderator of the discussion. PROLIFIC
WRITER Dr. Bennett, who is Dean of the Faculty at Union Seminary in New York City, is the author of
many books dealing with Christian responsibility toward society in relation to such things as politics, nuclear testing, and the threat
of war. One of his better-known books is Christians and the State. His most recent book, which concerns thermonuclear testing
and the threat of nuclear war, is Nuclear Weapons and the Conflict of Conscience. Dr. Bennett is one of the
editors of the weekly magazine Christianity and Crisis. He has also recently had articles published in Esquire and Saturday Review
of Literature. WILL VISIT CLASSES On Tuesday morning Bennett will visit several classes and will speak in assembly. Book-of-the-Year Chairman
Lowery Reid announced that any professor who is interested in having Dr. Bennett visit his class should contact Dr. Staples.
Reid also urged all students and faculty to read the book and come to the panel discussion Monday night. He
stressed the fact that the book could be easily read in an evening but that the program Monday night would
be of value to everyone whether he had read the book or not. Paperback copies of Christianity and Communism Today
are on sale in the College Union for $1.25. Arts Festival Stresses New Artists, Creations BY CHARLES RAMBERG Davidsonian Staff
Writer The 15th annual Fine Arts Festival, beginning April 6 and continuing into May, will emphasize new artists and new
works. Its theme will be “exploratory,” and will be concerned with the creative process. “Past Festivals have presented already established
artists,” Dr. J. S. Purcell, Faculty Fine Arts Committee chairman, stated today. “This year we will feature artists who have
shown evidence of attainment but who are not yet established. We hope to help students realize what the creative process
is and stimulate their interest and participation in it.” The festival will offer frequent opportunities for students to talk with
the young writers, painters, and musicians who will come to the campus. The first event will be a program of
chamber music presented in Hodson Hall Monday by members of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. “This will be another look at
a type of expression that needs to be rediscovered,” Purcell noted. Joseph Silverstein, violinist, will present a concert as part
of the Artist Series schedule April 9. Silverstein won the Walter W. Naumburg Foundation Award this year. The award, worth
$25,000, is presented annually to a young musician of great promise. This concert is the only part of the festival
for which an admissions charge will be made. Two films will be shown “to explore the potential artistry in film
making,” Purcell stated. “Hiroshima, Mon Amour,” contributed by the Union Film Committee, will be shown April 11 and 12. On
a date still undetermined, Dave Simpson will present his own experimental film. Dr. Grier Williams, trumpet; Prof. David Richey, piano;
and Mrs. Elaine Richey, violin, will present a recital in Hodson Hall April 24. Mrs.Richey, who won the Naumburg Award
two years ago (when it had no money value), will play a piece for violin written by her husband. Prof.
Richey will play two of his own compositions and three written by senior Bill Pruitt.

SPRING RECESS
Spring recess begins officially at 4:30 on Friday, March 30 and ends at 8:20 on April 5. Cuts will be
in effect on March 29 and 30, and on April 5.

Young author Guy Owen (Season of Fear), who taught English at Davidson between 1949 and 1952, will be on campus
April 24-27 for informal talks with students. Owen will also deliver the presentation address in chapel April 26 for the
Vereen Bell Award. The award is given for creative writing submitted by a Davidson student.

Poet X. J. Kennedy will also be at Davidson April 26. Kennedy, who recently won the Lamont Poetry Award for
the excellence of his first effort, will talk in the Morrison Room as part of the Poet Circuit program.

James Bumgardner, a pictor- (Continued On Page Four)

Guy Owen Presents Bell Award
Dr. Guy Owen, associate professor of English at Stetson University, will speak at the April 26 presentation of the Vereen
Bell Award for Creative Writing. A former member of the Davidson English Department, Owen is the founder and editor of
the poetry magazine Impetus as well as the author of numerous short stories, the first of which appeared in the
Carolina Quarterly. His first novel, Season of Fear, published by Random House in September 1960, has been well received by
the critics and recommended by the Book-of-the-Month Club. Owen is absent on leave this year from Stetson living on a
farm near North Wilkesboro where he continues to write. While at Davidson he is scheduled to speak to the members
of English 142 (creative writing). Owen, who holds BA, MA, and PhD degrees from the University of North Carolina, joined
the Davidson faculty as an instructor in 1949, and taught for four years. After serving on the Elon faculty, he
joined the English Department of Stetson where he teaches both undergraduate and graduate courses in English and American Literature.

SPUD STEWART
Student Dillard Defeats Hagen In Newspaper Election
Editor Selects Staff: First Issue April 6th
BY ROGER DAVID
Davidsonian Staff Writer

With a rather low 38% of the Student Body voting, David Dillard was elected to fill the editor’s chair of
THE DAVIDSONIAN for 1962-63 by a 147-vote margin over Bill Hagen. Dillard received 258 votes to Hagen’s 111.

Dillard, who is a French major, has served as secretary of Eumanean Literary Society, is in the Male Chorus, and
is a C. R. Harding Scholar. He draws his experience by having served as editor of his high school newspaper
and as a news and feature reporter for THE DAVIDSONIAN his freshman and sophomore years.

Elections End Today
Student interest in elections decreased this week as voters concluded 1962 balloting with the election of Student Council members and
freshman adviser. Only one contest had to be decided today. Will Jackson with 111 votes and John Barrow with 97
defeated Fred Sackett, 73, and will represent the rising sophomore class on the council next year. Jackson will be the
class president. After three runoffs this week, Spud Stewart was elected freshman adviser, defeating Bill Jarman by 30 votes. There
was to have been a third candidate, Zach Smith. A group of students attempted to place him in nomination for
the newspaper post, but the Publications Board, which is constitutionally empowered to determine all nominations for editorships, had considered Smith
and declined to place him before the student body as a nominee. After an appeal to the Student Council which
held four meetings on the question, the council requested the Publications Board to reconsider his candidacy. The board met Monday
and approved him as a candidate, against the recommendation of THE DAVIDSONIAN editorial staff. Once his name was on the
ballot, the voting was postponed from Monday until Thursday to allow him to prepare a platform.

SMITH WITHDREW
However, due to a lack of interest, Smith withdrew from the race Tuesday afternoon. The vote was still held Thursday.
Dillard will serve in his new capacity during the fiftieth anniversary of THE DAVIDSONIAN. In his platform he expressed a
desire for “new objectivity in THE DAVIDSONIAN, a new fairness, and a new honesty in approaching complex issues.” His staff
will take over on Friday, April 13, with the publication of its first issue. Between now and then, he will
work on appointing the new staff.

The week's voting concludes this year’s elections, except for the election of the editor of the Scripts and Pranks, which
will be held in the early Spring.

Faculty Judgment Reinstates Senior
In a specially called meeting Wednesday afternoon the faculty overruled the Executive Committee’s decision to suspend a senior from school
for the rest of the semester. The faculty, during a two-hour meeting, changed the ruling to campusing, with certain other
restrictions. The student will remain in school but will have no cuts and must sever all fraternity associations. The use
of a car will also be prohibited. The Executive Committee originally reviewed the case involving the “conduct unbecoming a Davidson
gentleman” phrase and made the dismissal decision. The student then exercised his right of appealing the judgment to the full
faculty. The action of the faculty was one of the few times an Executive Committee ruling has been changed. Barring
unforeseen circumstances the student will graduate with his class.

IFC Announces Concert, Frolics Plans, Revisions
Bob Waugh, IFC mentor, has announced the council’s action in adopting proposed constitution revisions and the line-up of attractions for
Spring Frolics and the April concert weekend. The Four Preps, Capitol recording artists, will highlight the April 14 IFC concert
from 8-10 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. The group consisting of a high tenor, lead tenor, a baritone, and a bass
have had many hit recordings including “26 Miles,” “Big Man,” and “Down By The Station.” All were written by members
of the group. They appeared in the movie “Gidget” and have performed on the Lawrence Welk, Dick Clark, Ed Sullivan
and Tennessee Ernie Ford television shows.

Waugh announced that the IFC voted 10-2 Monday night in favor of revising its constitution. The revisions gave the fraternity
presidents a non-voting seat on the council with voting rights in the absence of his fraternity’s representative. With this action,
the IFC becomes the sole interfraternity body and is responsible for liaison between the fraternities and the administration. All judicial
action will be reported to the administration's Fraternity Liaison Officer. Waugh also announced that IFC elections will take place April
9, and that the council plans to issue a newsletter containing features from all fraternities April 14. The initial idea,
presented by Sigma Nu President Bob Phillips, includes the formation of six committees: Social, Scholarship, and others.

The Spring Frolics semi-formal dance Friday night, April 27, will feature the popular South Carolina dance band, which will also
back up several performances by recording star Dakota Staton. The Saturday afternoon concert features Lester Flatt, Earl Scruggs and the
Foggy Mountain Boys. Scruggs is considered a master of the five-string banjo and Flatt is the lead singer and guitar
picker. They are backed by the fiddle, mandolin, bass, and guitar.

Waugh said that the council has sent a letter of protest to Willard Alexander, Inc., talent agent for Josh White
against the general handling of the March 11 concert by White. White was forced to delay a scheduled Saturday night
performance until the following day because of inadequate transportation facilities. A copy of the letter has been sent to a
New York agency which represents college unions and handles problems of unfulfilled contract obligations. The council thought that more consideration
was due after paying $1600 for the concert.
