PAGE FOUR

Printemporial Mayhem Breaks Cram Routine

BY GREG GOVAN, Davidsonian Feature Editor

With the onslaught of Spring comes the second biennial run of the Davidson oz, the all-night stand, and the crash program of instant learning. But unlike the Scandinavian creatures, the local species may be easily diverted from the fatal plunge. Spring probably has a lot to do with it. Take the flagpole last year. That is just what the discontented seniors did, much to the combined chagrin of the Hill and Barger Construction Co. And after the festivities, profaned flagpole. Sunday night found the pride of ROTC flag details graced with a merrily burning smudge-pot, bravely flying at three-quarters mast.

But Sunday morning had already seen its share of surprises. On the brick apron in front of Chambers, where once an outhouse stood, morning found an MG. Due to mysterious circumstances surrounding the car's appearance, parking violation charges were not pressed. And the pre-exam, mid-spring frustrations found expression in yet another way. Quite a bit of attention has been given to the lack of library facilities at Davidson. Also, with the College grounds crew beginning their noisy attack on the grass and stumps during prime study hours, quiet areas for pursuing the relentless march to oblivion were getting hard to find.

Enterprising students attempted to solve both these problems by setting up a study table, chair, and wastebasket on the small flat top of the dome of Chambers. It was a logical move; the college had set up a classroom in the dome room; why not set one up over it. Yet for all the mumbling of the mystified groundsmen who laddered up and roped the furniture down, it seems that the 1-2-5 Club was assured that Davidson students still had the old spirit. But then, so does Spring.

COPYRIGHT 1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY. COCA-COLA AND COKE ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS

BETWEEN BITES... get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina

Tucker Cites ‘Viridiana’ As Cynical, Offensive

BY PROF. DONALD W. TUCKER, Spanish Department

The original interest which brought Viridiana to the campus was linguistic. A few students wanted to see a Spanish-language film. Subsequently, the prospect of a prize-winning movie fomented enthusiasm. Amidst international acclaim and local furor, Viridiana has come and gone. In retrospect, one suspects that almost any other Spanish film would have contributed as much to our educational program as did this one.

The cynicism is neither new nor welcome. Senor Bunuel has succeeded in offending the Spanish hierarchy, but one wonders what, if anything, else he has accomplished with his disgusting iconoclasm and repulsive Freudianism. In spite of those many elements which grate the sensitivity and distract the spirit of the viewer, the superficial banality of Bunuel’s “masterpiece” stands exposed. The technical effects of the movie may be commendable, but dramatic genius is not the product of stagecraft.

The artistic appeal of Viridiana is limited. The much-praised symbols are so strained and violent as to raise a question. Why must director Bunuel shout so loudly?

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD., CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Summer Storage
We will dry clean and store your clothes for the summer.
Come By And See Us About It
Jackson Cleaners

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Jackson
Purcell
Cumming
Lammers
Rateliff
Horton
Lord
Schenck
Houchens
Minter
Threlkeld
Pierce

Richardson Dormitory Adds Five New Rooms

Five new rooms for Richardson Dormitory will be ready for occupancy by the opening of school next year. However, they have already been claimed by ten upperclassmen who signed up for them earlier this year. Located in the basement, the five new rooms will be furnished and finished in exactly the same style as the already-existing rooms in that dormitory. The beds, lighting, storage space, interiors, and plumbing will be identical.

McIntire Heads

BY BILL TROTTER, Davidsonian Fine Arts Critic

It is difficult to see why there was ever any question about bringing Viridiana to Davidson; it is not difficult to see why the director has been banned from Franco’s Spain for making it. In any case, the Union Film Committee deserves a medal for getting it here.

It would be impossible to sum up the movie. Perhaps it might be enlightening to compare and contrast it to La Dolce Vita and L’Avventura—for it makes a point that is in part akin to theirs, and it uses the same general format. Yet it is far different. It makes its point with brevity and motion—nothing is superfluous, nothing is padded; the movie plunges into its fable with no introductions, and never lags.

Viridiana’s indictment has perfect structure and balance! It is a living Goya drawing of degeneracy and almost unwatchable grossness, to the ironic strains of the Hallelujah Chorus. This was a stroke of genius. The disciples are lepers, dwarfs, prostitutes, cripples, and half-wits surrounding Christ, a coarse, toad-eyed blind man, who in a burst of infantile rage rises up to smash with his cane the sacraments on the table. It aims at more basic things than the other two films—whereas they were concerned primarily with morals, Viridiana is concerned with the conscience of a nation, and the problem of goodness and mercy being twisted by reality. It achieves its effects through a technique which blends poetry with perversion and ugliness, filmed in a Gothic atmosphere which lends it an element of starkness, a sort of timeless gloom.

Viridiana is one of the rarest artistic efforts, a work of perfect structure and balance; there is not an excess foot of film in it. And it is a movie that keeps saying things long after the eye has moved on. In short, it is a great film. Period.

Mission Director Vespers Speaker

Vespers speaker for this Sunday is Paul S. Crane of the Class of 1941. Dr. Crane is director of the Presbyterian Medical Mission in Chunju, Korea. At the present time, he is doing post-graduate work in the field.of open-heart surgery at Johns Hopkins University. What is incredible about the movie is its really powerful indictment of the Catholic Church and the Spanish way of life. While I am not qualified to say anything about the political implications of the film, suffice it to mention that it almost seems unbelievable to accept the fact that the story is set in modern, contemporary Spain. Only the occasional appearances, working in Korea during the Chinese invasion, Dr. Crane was associated with the Army Medical Corps, and left the Army with the rank of major. He is on the faculty of Severance Medical College in Korea and on the Board of Trustees of Taejon College. 

Rob Freud (Continued From Page One) of motor vehicles gives the viewer any hint that he is not seeing a medieval world. Rarely has the sordidness and foolishness of the Church been so openly exposed. Yet this exposure has a wistfulness to it, a sadness that things are the way they are. The movie is so rich in scenes and characters, its actors so uniformly fine, that it is hard to single out any one item to praise above all others. But one scene must surely rank among the most biting and arresting ever filmed—the scene where they hold a grotesque parody of the Last Supper. 

Abernethy and Richardson have a good-sized bibliography to back them up. What this annual seems to prove is that the scholarly approach does not make for lively reading. We must congratulate Editor Rob Abernethy, however, on his choice of a significant and serious theme and on his thorough execution of it. Hopefully, future editors will follow the path that he and Charles Rose have pioneered. As for the question of method, doesn't this probing of society lie within the realm of the artist as well as of the scholar? Perhaps the workshop of the artist, with all his tools of prose, poetry, and the pictorial arts and with all his colorful and deeply penetrating techniques, is the proper place to produce an annual which is readable as well as serious. 

Scholars (Continued From Page One) beggars and law. His planned career is in the law and diplomacy. From Seoul, Korea, is Byoung Young Lee, 23, who was awarded a Richardson Scholarship last year but was denied a passport because of the revolution in South Korea. If he comes to Davidson, he wants to study economics. Erik Bergstrand, 19, from Sweden, is interested in studying Business Administration at Davidson. Another student, Harald Saxholm, also 19, from Norway, is interested in chemistry. Both of these students will enter a university for further study after they attend Davidson next year. One other student, not a Richardson Scholar, but a Special Student, will attend Davidson next year from Tokyo, Japan. Nobutoky Tatsuta will graduate this year from Sophia University in Tokyo. He expects to go into the electrical manufacturing industry, but at Davidson he wishes to improve his English and to study business and economics. 

Spanish Fraternity The Davidson chapter of the National Hispanic Society, Sigma Delta Pi, elected officers and initiated six new members Tuesday night. Plans for the coming year were also discussed, along with an evaluation of this year’s activities. In the elections, rising senior John McElfresh was named president, Bob Murdoch, vice-president, and Jack Althoff secretary. Initiated were Jack Althoff, Howard Arbuckle, Bob Cordle, Tom Loftin, Gary Nedwed, and Ralph Small. 

I defy any viewer to remain unmoved by it in some way, or to remain calm at the savage parody of the Last Supper. 

The rooms will be identical with the rooms above. The five rooms and other facilities are expected to be complete by August of this summer. Construction began with the bringing in of supplies and equipment last week. 

Also included in the plans is a complete bath, a storage space for linens, and one large extra-duty room. This area will be used for any temporary overcrowding condition, e.g., a visiting team on campus. It may also be used to serve any other purpose that may arise that demands a room. The room, a sort of “overflow area,” will have bedding facilities and fluorescent lighting outlets. It will not be a permanent residence place but will serve merely to relieve any sudden crowding. 

For the construction and work on this part of Richardson Dormitory, about $25,000 will be spent. The use of this basement area for these purposes was anticipated in the original plans and construction of the dormitory. Plumbing pipes, adequate space, and other items have already been provided for the area. 

Phi Societies Elect New Officers Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies elected Walter MacDonald and Seaborn Jones, respectively, as presidents for the 1962 fall term at their meetings Monday night. Eumenean also elected rising sophomore Ed Haselden as vice-president; Steve Heckard, secretary; Steve Gramley, treasurer; and Smith McKeithen as parliamentarian. For Philanthropic, R. D. Miller will serve as vice-president; Bill DeVaughan, secretary; and Harry Daniel, treasurer. David Breiten and Stu Jamison will serve as critics. 

WORK PROGRESSES — on the five rooms being added to Richardson Dormitory. Or is it progressing toward its August deadline? Where are the men? (Staff Photo by McCutchen) 

An invitation to shape your own future... 

A graduate seeking his way in the world has the best opportunity of achieving his goal if he starts with firm ground under his feet. This is an assurance at General Telephone. As a major communications company, “Gen Tel” has the solid stability of a public utility, together with the added stability that is a substance of growth. In addition, General Telephone Companies make every effort to provide the best living climate for all employees. Salaries and benefits are comparable to those offered by other stable industries. Those seeking positions with General Telephone are assured of paid vacations, paid holidays, military leave, tuition aids, disability benefits, insurance, pensions, and stock purchase plans. As a step toward planning your future, ask your Placement Director for a copy of our brochure on Management Careers. 

GENERAL TELEPHONE America’s Largest Independent Telephone System