FRESHMAN REVIEWS CAMP (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1962

Long Walk 182 Frosh To Fraternity

Administration Juggled; Seven Augment Faculty

Davidson significantly revamped several aspects of the administration this past June. The move that made Robert J. Sailstad Director of
Public Relations and Development placed three formerly independent sections of the administration under one head. Sailstad in his new position
will have responsibility for the coordination of all areas of the administration that represent the college to the public, including
the work of the Alumni Office, the College News Bureau, and the financial development program.

Sailstad has been at Davidson the past six years as Assistant to the President for Development. President D. G. Martin
said of the change, “This reorganization will, we believe, allow Davidson to fulfill better its obligation to this area and
those it serves throughout the nation.” Business Manager Robert A. Currie said that the reorganization would make it possible to
eliminate the needless duplication of records that the three previous departments made necessary.

Assisting Sailstad in his new duties are W. Taylor Blackwell, the director of news bureau and publicity, and John Goodman,
acting director of alumni activities. William L. Bondurant, last year’s assistant director of admissions, will arrive from a tour with
the Army Reserves this December to take the job as director of alumni activities. Bondurant graduated from Davidson with the
class of '58 and has an LL.B. degree from Duke University. Gone from the scene is John Horton, who had
been serving as director of alumni affairs since 1958.

Replacing Sailstad as President Martin’s assistant is Everett Gourley, Jr. Prior to his arrival here, Gourley was assistant to the
president at Queens College in Charlotte. Gourley received his A.B. from Vanderbilt University and then served as a missionary in
Brazil from 1953-56. In 1956 he was appointed to the Presbyterian Board of World Missions. He left this post in
1959 to attend the Presbyterian School of Christian Education in Richmond, Va.

Russell Kirk Views Conservative Future

Dr. Russell Kirk, noted author and lecturer, will speak on “The Future of American Conservatism” in chapel Tuesday at 10:20
a.m. His appearance, which will be followed by a coffee hour in the Student Union, is being sponsored by the
Davidson College Conservative Club and the national organization with which it is associated, the Intercollegiate Society of Individualists.

Dr. Kirk did his undergraduate work at Michigan State University receiving an A.B. degree in 1940. His graduate work was
continued at Duke University (M.A.) and completed at St. Andrews University in Scotland, which awarded him a doctor of letters
degree. He is the only American to hold the highest arts degree of the senior Scottish university.

He is currently research professor of political science at C. W. Post College and university professor at Long Island University.
Looked upon by many as the philosopher of American Conservatism, Prof. Kirk is primarily a writer: He is the author
of many books, the best known of them being The Conservative Mind. Dr. Kirk was the founder of the quarterly
journal Modern Age and is now the editor of the quarterly University Bookman. He contributes frequently to the New York
Times Magazine, Fortune, National Review, Wall St. Journal, Yale Review, and numerous other publications.

Music Dept. Offers Oratorio Tickets

The Davidson College Music Department announces that special season tickets are available for the two performances of the Oratorio Singers
of Charlotte under the direction of Davidson’s Donald Plott. Early purchasers may enjoy the Oratorio Singers’ presentation of Arthur Honneger’s
“King David” at the Ovens Auditorium in Charlotte at 8:15 p.m. on Saturday, Jan. 19, 1963. The three soloists, who
last season presented Mozart's “Requiem,” will be Virginia Babikian, so-

Training for the new ROTC flight training program is scheduled to begin during the week of Sept. 24 at the
Mooresville Airport. After passing rigid physical requirements and aptitude tests, seven Davidson seniors have been accepted into the program. They
are Gilbert Brauch, Jr.,

from which he received his M.A. Gourley will have the job of easing the burden of the president’s many duties.
“Actually,” Gourley said, “Mr. Sailstad had so many duties to perform with the development of the college and raising money
for it that he had no time to assist the president in other matters. The very fact that he did
his job so well meant that the president had even more work. Mr. Sailstad can continue his excellent work in
development and President Martin will now have a true assistant.”

Four other changes have also been made in the administration. William H. Terry, a graduate of Davidson, replaces Dr. George
E. Staples as college chaplain; and Mrs. Richard C. Burts, wife of the Dean of Students, is head of the
new audio-visual center. D. G. Martin, Jr., son of President Martin, replaces John W. Kuykendall as assistant dean of students
and liaison. He received his A.B. last year from Davidson where he was in history honors. Captain of last year’s
basketball squad, Martin won the Tommy Peters athletic award. He was a member of the YMCA Cabinet, secretary and treasurer
of the Student Council, a member of ODK, and secretary and treasurer of his senior class.

Joseph B. Martin succeeds Bondurant as assistant director of admissions. This Martin is also a graduate of last year’s senior
class. He was a Dana Scholar, and in 1962 served as head cheerleader and president of Beta Theta Pi social
fraternity.

The faculty will have seven new members for this school year. William Blainnie Hight, Jr., who has earned his Ph.D.
at the University of North Carolina, is associate professor of education. Wesley H. Tilley, associate professor of English, (Continued On
Page Four)

Davidson Graduate in Chaplain's Office

Rev. William H. Terry assumes the position of chaplain at Davidson this semester. He succeeds Dr. George Staples who is
engaged in post-doctrinal work at Yale University. The Durham native was graduated from Davidson in 1954. As an undergraduate he
was a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity and president of the Eumenean Literary Society. He was named to
Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities his senior year.

In the year immediately following his graduation the Rev. Mr. Terry held the position of YMCA secretary, a job very
similar to his present post. During this year he was tapped to ODK. The new chaplain sees the chaplain’s office
as “primarily pastoral in nature and not administrative... and as an opportunity to get to know students better.”

his freshman beanie as frosh regulations go into effect.

Congolese Student Enters As Pre-Med

BY KNOX ABERNETHY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

In the pre-dawn darkness of June 16, 1961, Congolese disembarked from their flight from Leopoldville at New York International Airport.
There were two pastors, a teacher, and a pre-med student named Ben Nzengu, now a Freshman here at Davidson. A
couple of them could speak a few words of English, but none of the officials at the airport could understand
them. A guide, who spoke a little French, helped them get through customs and immigration formalities, and then they were
suddenly alone in the vastness of the airport. Ben says now, “We looked at one way and thought that maybe
it would take us out of the airport. Then we looked that way and then another way, and then all
the ways looked the same. We were really lost.” Then he heard someone calling his name, andHe thought, “How could
anyone know my name here?” He looked around and there was his sponsor, John Cooley of Nashville, Tenn. And that
was how Ben first entered the United States. He had just left Leopoldville the previous afternoon, and less than a
week before he had left his home in Bebanga, of the Kasai province of the Republic of the Congo. Ben,
who is of the Baluba tribe of South Kasai, is the son of a Presbyterian minister (like many Davidson students),
and he began his education at the Presbyterian mission elementary school at Kasha. He studied there for seven years and
graduated in 1956. He then went to the Ecole d'Infirmiers Diplome in Lubondai, where he took the entrance examinations with
twenty other students. Seventeen, including Ben, passed the exams and began a five-year course in medicine under Dr. William Rule,
who is a medical missionary.

After independence, however, the Lulua, fired with tribal pride, drove all the Baluba people from Lulua territory. Ben, studying in
Lubondai, was caught in the middle of the turmoil. Although there was much fighting and bloodshed, the students of the
mission hospital quietly returned home when the Lulua ordered them out. Ben returned to Bebanga, where he continued his studies
in the mission hospital there, under the direction of Dr. Hugh Farrior, another Presbyterian missionary and a Davidson alumnus. Seven
of the original class of seventeen finished the course, and all but one went to work.

(Continued On Page Four)

Hagen Appointed Davidsonian Editor

Bill Hagen has been named the new editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Last Tuesday the Student Council released this official statement:
On September 11, by a vote of 11-1, the Student Council officially recognized Bill Hagen as editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN.
The matter was decided both on principle and Associate Editors - former Editor Dave Dillard's not to school because of
academic difficulties. Beidler, Merritt, Jim Stokes, Pascale, Roger David, Bob Whitfield, Skip Motley.

BENOIT - BORNE BEANIE — Ben Nzengy, class of ‘66, dons four.

CATS MEET CATAWBA (See Page Three)

NUMBER ONE

Down Patterson Carries to Doorsteps

One hundred and eighty-two freshmen took the long walk down Fraternity Court this afternoon to pledge the fraternity of their
choice. This represented roughly 69 percent of the Class of 1966. Today's pledging brought to a close one of the
most hectic Rush Weeks in recent years as both semester classes and rush parties conflicted throughout part of the week.
The first series of parties ran through Wednesday night with two nights of redates Thursday and Friday. Cheers went up
seconds after 3 p.m. when the first freshman indicated his choice and continued until pledging closed at 4:30. The pledging
period was preceded by a period of silence which went into effect last night at 10 p.m. No rushee could
have further contact with any fraternity man until the close of pledging this afternoon. The 69 percent is well below
the comparable figure of last fall, when 219 freshmen or roughly 79 percent pledged fraternities at the conclusion of Rush
Week. These totals were altered somewhat with late pledging.

The following freshmen pledged fraternities:

ATO
Jim Hollandsworth, Derek Lindsley, Dave Townsend, Phil Thom, Blair, Scooter, Ernie De, Craig Kugel, Wayne Mixon, Al Carson, Kemp Logan,
Greg Gates, David Orr, Pete Bondanella, Walt Drake, Danny Boone.

BETA
Blackstock, Tom Craig, Chip Sanders, Buzz Hardin, John Good, David Meschan, Sammy Gibbs, Charles Turner, Sid Tompkins, Joe Davis, Jerry.

KA
Adams, Steve Simmons, Ernie Larkin, Winfield, Tom Hunter, Kimball, Mac McConnell, Rollins, John Hash, Bunky, Sandy Black, Tim Croft.

KAPPA SIG
Hightower, Robert, Robert Lake, Tom Ogburn, Lamic Bryant, Billy Clark, Butch Allison, Woody Cleveland, John Simmons, Whit Arnie Goodstein, Gus
Webb, Tor Reams, Dick Snyder, Bill Walton, Jimmy Jones, Steve Rostan, George Gibbins, David Brown, Bill Taylor.

PHI DELT
Bill Alexander, Paul Ambrose, John Apperson, Stu Hoyle, Rymer, Lindsey Collins, Sam Jones, Jack Lingle, Tom McKenzie, Jim Rifkin, Ray
Rogers, Eric Nichols, Jim Wilson, Phil Wells, Bob Blair, Steve Smith, Paul Stotts, Allen Johnson, Bob Slaton, Jim McNab, Bob
Bryan, Lance Walker, Dan Guyton.

PHI GAM
Dan Barefoot, Jim Hyder, Pack Hindsley, Johnny Little, Mike Cummings, Jim Terry, Bill Tetrick, Bill Staples, Fielding Clark.

PIKA
Bobby Austin, Mike Bell, Bill Briggs, Johnny Clark, Richard Harden, John Hartness, Dick Hicks, Al Jenkins, Ernest Jordan, Buck Lawrimore,
Linwood Littlejohn, Conrad Martin, Jim Martin, Arnie Snider, Britt Snider, Erskine Sproul, Preston St. Clair, John Triplett, George Williams.

PI KAPP
Roy Allison, John Craig, Decker Faw, Frank Gibbs, Mike Perry, Harrington, Fred Lewis, Doug Dick Short, Mike Smith, Ronnie Pratt,
Stone, Rocky Walker, Allen Webb.

SAE
Jim Armstrong, Jim McQueen.

SIGMA NU
Woody Efird, David Powell, Dave Ellett, William Childress, Jan Brakel, Johnny Rostan, Tiff Harrington, Doug Finley, Gordon Ball, Jack Brinckerhoff,
Bob Palmer, Bill Skinner, Bill Burch.

SIG EPS
Richard Maybin, Eric Taylor.

SIGMA CHI
Don Davis, Bill Garrard, Arthur Jim Appleby, John Burks, Hammond, Sidney Farrar, John Star Evins, Lee Fanning, Lewis Ouzts, Jim
Hill, George Fain, Foss, Jeff Frank, Steve Gill, David James, Stuart Cox, John Jack Goodykoontz, Cam Harkness, Basil Hicks, Dick
Hurd, Lowell Foster, Rick Ramseur, Jim Kopp, Doug McKeever, Ben Forkner, Marc Copelan.

Court Of Control Prepares To Enforce Frosh Rules

Freshmen Regulations will be in effect beginning tomorrow. All infringements of the Regulations will be reported to the Court of
Control headed this year by Spud Stewart, Freshman Advisor. Other members of the Court are Larry Leafer, John Killian, Howard
Arbuckle, Dave Lopp, Bob Dixon, Will Jackson, and Phil Squiers.

The Court, heretofore object of heated controversy, will act this year in the capacity of both an enforcer of freshman
regulations, and an advisory board for the freshman class. The court will attempt to provide the leadership to help the
freshmen class unify itself and adjust to the Davidson way of life. The Court will soothe any of the freshmen’s
rebellious tendencies by quietly sentencing guilty offenders to mild punishment (polishing football shoes, etc.), and freshmen are invited to bring
any special problems before the Court, which will act in an advisory capacity.

“The Court of Control looks forward to the support of the upperclassmen as well as that of the freshmen as
the class of ‘66 is inducted into the Davidson Tradition,” said Spud Stewart, freshman advisor.

FRESHMAN REGULATIONS

1. Freshmen must speak respectfully to everyone they meet on campus.
2. Freshmen must wear the prescribed name plates at all times on the campus and must place namecards on the
doors of their dormitory rooms.
3. Freshmen must wear the prescribed caps whenever out of doors on the campus.
4. Freshmen must not walk on the grass.
5. Freshmen must know the college yells and songs by the first pep rally; must attend all pep rallies; and
when on campus attend all home athletic contests.
6. All violations shall be effective on Sunday, Sept. 16, 1962.
7. Regulations shall be in effect until Thanksgiving, unless the Freshmen win the Field Day, which shall be held within
a week before or after the first six-weeks grading period.
