/ The College Cut Rate; Che Davidsonian THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE PAGE THREE FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28,
1962 (All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor) A Wise Indecision? Davidson’s chronic indecisiveness, pointed to in another connection last week,
has placed more of its constituents—students this time—in another unfortunate position. The cut policy, which has changed greatly since last
year, is now in a state of incompletion, leaving some question as to whether the change has been beneficial or
if it will be totally undesirable. Davidson has in the past discriminated against students who live more than a few
hours drive from campus, by placing heavy restrictions on class absences on the days immediately preceding and following holidays. We
believe that this in itself was unfair. Nevertheless, even under the old system a student so unfortunate as to live
out of state could forfeit cuts during the semester in order to be able to spend a holiday at home.
The newest regulations, however, though appearing to be more liberal, have actually limited students more severely in the place where
they have desired more freedom. They have prescribed the elimination of cuts before and after holidays. And yet they give
no alternative. They do not indicate what punishment, if any, shall be used. Moreover, it is our understanding that certain
faculty members desire to withhold judgment until after the first holiday season. Is it fair to make a law punitive
rather than preventive? If the indecisiveness is dissolved in this case, will the punishment be so severe as to forbid
many students the only cuts they have ever previously needed during a semester? Or will an out-of-the-area student be able
to have the same amount of time at home on holidays with the same great sacrifice during the semester? Whatever
the verdict, the student should have the opportunity to choose. We urge a decision. One of the reasons given for
the restrictions under either cut system has been that certain “other colleges have similar class absence regulations.” If Davidson cannot
choose to be independent in setting regulations peculiar to its own campus situation, then perhaps we should look at the
W&L cut system... (the real one.)

A New Role So far so good freshmen! But... This seemed to be the gist of the timely warnings sandwiched
between the other announcements in Monday's assembly. An ounce of prevention and all that sort of thing. But we couldn't
help remembering that we were there in the year of the last Great Riot. We never have quite gotten used
to the idea that this year there will be no more bright-eyed bucket wielders. For if nothing else it showed
that a new class had some spirit and, more important, some concern. And so far the present class has shown
us none. No cocky questioners of the status quo have appeared this year. Are they really out to rack up
some grades? Or can it be they are already absorbed into the establishment? We seriously doubt the former. But this
lack of concern is not isolated to the freshman class. What else but this would cause a campus to become
a “suitcase college?” Without a doubt the only extracurricular activities indulged in by some gentlemen are strictly limited to Hattie’s
and the parked car. Rather than spend a whole editorial railing against non-participants though, we would submit that the whole
student body needs to see the role of a student in new terms. If the terms are made important enough
the result will surely be increased participation and interest. The problem of having a narrow view of his role in
society is of course not limited to the student on this campus. National surveys have shown that most students do
not want to believe that their activities might make a difference. Some 80% of those polled admitted that they never
get as worked up over something that happens in political or public affairs as something that happens in their personal
life. Over 75% of students are placidly contented with their present day-to-day activities. The blame doesn’t lie only with the
students either. Neither society nor colleges and universities have recognized that the student should be allowed to do more than
study, participate in sports, and raise cain. Colleges, and this is certainly evident here, lay too much emphasis on adjusting
and little or nothing is said about acting. On how many campuses is the political study or action group viewed
with suspicion or even labeled subversive because it seems to be stepping out of the “traditional” role of the student?
This is something we need to think about. We view as a healthy sign the controversial schedule of speakers the
Student Council has lined up. The challenging of ideas is the first step along the road to a new role
for students. The next step is to put the ideas to work on a community level. Such organizations as the
Conservative Club and the National Student Association, working through the Student Council, should be used to focus student activity in
this direction. At present we are in the midst of four years of freedom that we will never again have
in our lives. At no other time will our obligations be so few. We do have one obligation though. To
question and act in society is an obligation we have to ourselves and the community. There is certainly room for
growth on both sides.

Peon Manifesto Where is the Peon Army? Two long, dreary years have passed since this noble non-exclusive group of Davidson
volunteers interested in military affairs above and beyond the call of the ROTC last performed its time-honored activities on the
drill field. Half of the present student body has never seen this traditional renowned group, and there is even a
new generation of ROTC cadre which has not yet received its baptism of fire. Have the cold blasts of coolness
frozen the hot peon blood? Has the clarion’s call been drowned out by the tramping of marching feet? Is the
army destined to die and fade away? Never! Each Tuesday afternoon the world stands silent and breathless awaiting the mighty
tide which once again must sweep across the drill field! Peons unite! The strife you cause may be your own!
J.K.A.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER Associate Editor ... Knox Abernethy Editorial Assistants Bob Ivey, Jim Williams Assistant Editor Bill Ruth Managing Editors
David Stitt Jeff Wampler Sports Editor ... Bill Pridgen Assignments Editor Charles Ramberg Feature Editor Greg Govan ... Bill Hagen
Ed Willer News Editor Charles Dibble Photographers ... Joe McCutchen Tom Anderson Cartoonists Dan Adams Joe Howell Walter MacDonald Advertising
Manager ... Charlie Smith Circulation Manager ... Malcolm Lane Assistant Bus. Manager ... Rick Finch Entered as Second Class Matter
at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 9, 1879.

CS By Adams Conservative Mind Nichols Discusses YMCA Philosophy BY NEIL NICHOLS YMCA President (Author’s Note: These are my own
thoughts and convictions about the YMCA. However, they do, I believe, coincide with the opinions of the “Y” cabinet.) Davidson
is an institution made up of students from 18 to 24 years of age, an age when a person is
more confused, disillusioned, and even disgusted than he will be at any other time in his life. He is confused
about religious norms, disillusioned about theological opinion of a world which is growing too fast for man's finite mind to
comprehend, much less keep up with. The Davidson student is of a high enough caliber intellectually to question thoroughly. Yet
his indeterminate surroundings create a desire for security which makes him refuse to accept that which isn’t concrete, that which
isn't a sure thing. Davidson is, in businessman Gene Bingham’s words, a “suitcase” college where it is often thought not
cool or just plain undesirable to participate actively in any campus organization from football to fraternity. These circumstances make the
position and program of the YMCA difficult to explain and difficult to carry out. Yet the very fact that we
are

Thompson Dear Editor: Last year THE DAVIDSONIAN ran a series of editorials and articles suggesting changes in the Richardson Scholarship
program for International Students. Intended by the author to bring about what he considered reform, the articles had so little
relation to the facts that they served only to demoralize last year’s group of international students and to jeopardize the
continuation of the program by the Trustees of the Richardson Foundation. I am requesting the publication of this letter in
hopes of forestalling a repetition of last year's experience. The gist of the proposed change was that the International Students
should not be required to carry a normal academic load and that they should not be bound by the regulations
regarding class and chapel attendance, and so forth. The purpose was to free them from much of their obligation of
studying and to enable them to absent themselves fromThe campus more frequently and for more extensive trips to various parts
of the country. The proposed changes were confused and disgusted about religious norms and theological opinions shows that we are
interested in them. The fact that we question implies that we honestly want an answer. And even though we are
a suitcase college, we are a college of students with ability and potential; a college of leaders. It is because
of this that I consider the position of the YMCA secure and very valuable to the Davidson student. The “Y”
is trying to help solve the confusion about religious norms and theological ideas by presenting forums, programs, and worship services
which seek to provide a sound basis for ideas toward religion. I sincerely believe that the “Y” has the answer
for the questioning and searching after security, i.e., the search for what is good in life, and that answer is
to be found in Service. And I am not quite willing to admit that the student of ability at the
suitcase college is as materialistic as he or his professor believes him to be. If he is so materialistic, then
why will he stay up long into the night arguing over the nature of a fraternity pledge program, or why
will he concern himself about the honor system, or the faculty regulations? Certainly, this implies that he is interested in
ideas and their effect. The ideal that the “Y” would put before the student is the ideal of service. The
sole purpose of the YMCA is to serve one’s fellow man in the spirit of love, love for the fellow
men and love for God, as was taught by Christ. But what does bother me is the apathy and laziness
of all of us, the Davidson students. As broad and strong as the “Y” program is, this apathy can stifle
it. If the “Y” fails to serve, if the “Y” fails to serve in the spirit of love, then the
position of the “Y” will cease to be secure and valuable to the Davidson student. It will fail through lack
of activity and lack of support, not through lack of purpose. It is through the area chairmen that the “Y”
operates; through them that it serves. I would ask that you not be content with checking a few blanks on
an interest card, but seek these area chairmen out personally. Their job is a big one and it would help
them out a great deal if you would let them know your willingness to help. We will need your help
more and more, for the “Y” is expanding ever further. It is going to need more than the 50% of
the students which participated in some phase of the “Y” program last year. It is only through student support that
the “Y” can serve. If it fails to serve and to serve effectively, then you and I have failed.

Reevaluates Kirk
BY DICK VOORHEES
Conservative Club President

Russell Kirk is a social conservative more than an economic one. He has spent his life analyzing our patterns of
social organization and attempting to discover the related patterns of ethical behavior, “traditional norms,” he calls them. These, he says,
have been disintegrating in our society and others for some time, and will continue to do so, so long as
we consider strict adherence to principle as “old fogeyish,” and so long as our academicians call for constant review of
our basic ethical assumptions. Kirk made strikingly clear last week the consequences of allowing orthodoxy to decay or to be
disrupted. In the Congo, when the Independence movement broke down the order and structure of the Belgian-missionary system, traditional norms
quickly disintegrated. The result was chaos, which, Kirk noted, caused the return of many natives to the ways of witchcraft
and voodoo. Kirk’s view of what we should do about Cuba was misreported in the previous issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN,
and something should be said about it. Knox Abernathy reported that view as follows: the United States should use Venezuela,
Guatemala, Ecuador, and Colombia, Peru as “tools” to conquer Castro's Cuba. Quite to the contrary, Kirk merely remarked the little-known
fact that these countries have been “straining at the leash” to attack Cuba on their own and for their own
benefit. Our action in such a situation should be, he advises, to let these nations act according to their own
wishes, and, perhaps, to supply a few necessary transport vessels. Thus America would not be seriously involved, but rather those
nations which seek to stop Communist gun, guerrilla, and agitator exports from Cuba. In his report, Abernathy rightfully found Kirk's
brand of Conservatism to be distinct from nineteenth-century (classical) Liberalism, but he lamented the fact that Kirk “failed to mention
which century” it came from. He should have asked. Russell Kirk is chiefly a follower of the doctrines of Edmund
Burke, who lived 1729-1797.

"Thank Thee, Lord..." With A Different Twist
Sam Ragan in the Raleigh News & Observer

WE ARE INDEBTED to Mrs. Lewis L. Holladay of Charlottesville, Va., for sending us “The Prayer of a Modern Pharisee,”
by John A. MacLean, a native of Eastern Carolina who at the time of the pamphlet’s publication was pastor of
the Ginter Park Presbyterian Church in Richmond.

THE PRAYER begins: “I thank thee, Lord, that I am a North Carolinian and not from Virginia or South Carolina,
those ‘two mountains of conceit bordering the vale of humiliation,’ full of pompous pride and unaware that their progressive neighbors
have long ago outdistanced them; and I thank thee, Lord, that I am an Eastern North Carolinian, for is it
not a proverb that ‘No gentleman was ever born west of Tidewater’? Especially, Lord, I thank thee that I am
a Southerner and not a Yankee—for there are many things that one might endure, but not that!”

AND IT ENDS with: “I thank thee, Lord, that I am a Southern Presbyterian, yes, an Eastern-North Carolina, North American,
occidental, Scotch, Gentile, white, civilized, Protestant, Southern Presbyterian! What a man!”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Thompson Decries Proposed Changes In Richardson Scholarship Program

Unacceptable for two reasons. First, the Trustees of the Richardson Foundation are perfectly clear in their intention that academic work
is to be the primary concern of the scholarship men during the academic year. At the end of the year,
opportunity to visit various parts of the country is provided by a travel grant to be used in the summer.
In view of the fact that the Richardson program was devised by Dr. Martin and Mr. H. S. Richardson personally,
there is no doubt (in spite of last year’s DAVIDSONIAN) that the President understands Mr. Richardson’s intentions. Secondly, law requires
the International Students to take a full academic program. Those Acts of Congress which created the non-immigrant student visas, in
contrast to tourist visas and visas for immigrants, define the student as one who takes a normal academic program at
an institution accredited for the purpose by the State Department. Consequently, the so-called reforms are a violation of law which
should result in Davidson’s losing its accreditation and the right to issue the forms by which our foreign students obtain
student visas.

Bradley D. Thompson
Foreign Student Adviser

Ferris

Dear Editor:

During the summer Davidson seems to have taken on a new face. Students can now walk on asphalt where before
there was rough concrete or dirt. A new air-conditioned bookstore makes buying books almost a pleasure. The new room in
the dome will soon be completed. Even the ginkgo tree has been removed. Our face grows more respectable each year.
At what cost, though, do we make these improvements? During the summer one of our outstanding professors, Dr. Robert Lord,
left Davidson. As of yet the administration has made no statement about his departure. We are well aware of his
criticisms of school policy and the cold reception he received from the administration. He left Davidson, however, not because of
his disagreement with school policies, but because he was offered a sizable increase in salary at another school. Now it
is understandable that Davidson cannot compete on a pay scale with larger schools; but how can we afford to be
building asphalt walks and remodeling rooms when our outstanding faculty members are leaving because of their salaries? It is time
the administration awoke to the fact that Davidson’s hallowed halls are not as attractive to outsiders as they are to
alumni. Like Dr. Lord, many of our young professors are “outsiders.” Unless Davidson can compete on a salary basis with
other schools, we may soon find a number of these professors following Dr. Lord’s example. A beautiful campus is not
essential to a college education, but good professors are. It is very discouraging for us as students to see Davidson's
“face” being beautified at the expense of the more vital parts of our education.

Bill Ferris
