| PROF. MacCORMAC DISCUSSES EDUCATION (See Page Two) The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON RELAYS TOMORROW (See
Page Three) VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1962 NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE WILL BE PRESENTED TONIGHT SPRING
FROLICS SWEETHEARTS Madeline Hahn Alpha Tau Omega Jackie Baker Kappa Sigma Caroline McClain Beta Theta Pi Hazel Collins Phi Delta
Theta Jane Wilson Sigma Nu Frances Alexander Kappa Alpha Barbara Oeland Phi Gamma Delta Mary Helen Harris Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Mary Johnston Gilley Sigma Phi Epsilon Arts Festival Sponsors Artist, Sculptor, Plays BY CHARLES RAMBERG Davidsonian Staff Writer James and
Judy Bumgardner, experimental artists, visit Davidson Monday and present two student-written one-act plays Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday to nearly complete
this year’s Fine Arts Festival next week. Only the performance of Mozart's Bastien and Bastienne by the Lenoir-Rhyne College music
department here on May 9 will remain after next week’s activities. James Bumgardner, a pictorial artist, teaches at Richmond Professional
Institute; his wife Judy, a sculptor, teaches art at the Collegiate School, also in Richmond, Va. Examples of his oil
painting and her polychrome sculpture will be displayed in the Fine Arts Center from Monday, April 30 until Wednesday, May
16. While on campus, the Bumgardners will work together in their discussions with students on exploratory techniques in painting and
sculpture. On Monday at noon, they will lead an informal discussion on contemporary American painting and sculpture and its relationship
to the art of other periods and cultures in the Chorus Room of the Fine Arts Center. On exhibit in
the Center from April 30 until May 26, will be paintings, drawings, and prints created by Davidson students. The Bumgardners
will select winners after offering criticism on the works submitted in an informal session beginning at 2:30 Monday afternoon in
the Studio Area of the Center. The last scheduled activity for the Bumgardners will be a discussion of the mainstream
of contemporary American painting and sculpture Tuesday evening at 8:15 in the Studio Area of the Fine Arts Center. The
Vagabonds will stage two short one-act plays, one by William Moss and one by Don Stowell, at 8:15 Wednesday and
Thursday evenings in Hodson Hall. Prof. John Sneden, who with Prof. Goodykoontz selected the two to be presented from the
ten submitted, characterized both as “offbeat — symbolic rather than realistic.” Moss’s play, Beyond These Walls, is a serious play,
and uses five actors. Stowell’s A Morning After the Fig Tree Bloomed, uses only three actors, and treats its serious
subject more lightly, incorporating some comedy. After the presentation of each play, its author will be introduced to the audience
for a discussion of his work. Dr. R. S. Wilson, Trustee, Succumbs Dr. Ronald S. Wilson, a Trustee and alumnus
of Davidson College, died Sunday night, April 15, in Miami, following a heart attack. Dr. Wilson, minister of the Westminster
Presbyterian Church in Miami, was a member of the Class of 1927 at Davidson, receiving his AB degree here. In
1930 he received his BD degree at Richmond’s Union Theological Seminary, and his ThD there in 1931. In May of
1945, Davis and Elkins College in Elkins, W. Va., awarded Wilson an honorary DD degree. Born in Clarion, Penn. in
1902, Wilson was also a Trustee of Florida Presbyterian College and a member of the Assembly's Board of Church Extension.
His son, Dr. Robert S. Wilson, Jr., a member of the Davidson Class of 1955, is Assistant Professor of Psychology
at the University of Iowa. The by-law for Section 15 of the Student Body Constitution calls for the Student Council
to appoint from its members a representative to both the Academic Scheduling Committee and the Non-Academic Scheduling Committee. The new
by-law also makes provisions for the council to appoint from the Student Body at large a representative to the Religious
Life Committee and two representatives to the Athletic Council. The second by-law was added to Section 8 of the constitution
and defines the purpose of the Student-Faculty Conference Committee. The by-law states that the committee “shall have as its purpose
the promotion of a free interchange of ideas and viewpoints upon college matters of general interest to the students and
the faculty ... Any student or member of the faculty has a full right and privilege to meet with the
committee to express any ideas which he might hold for the good of the college.” Both of the by-laws received
Caldwell Wins 1962 Vereen Bell Award Price Caldwell, author of the short story “Wildcatters” is the winner of the Vereen
Bell Memorial Award for 1961-62. Bill Moss and Bill Pruitt received second and third places respectively. Caldwell will receive the
$75 cash prize which is awarded for the best creative writing in any field that is submitted in the competition.
The award, announced yesterday in the chapel program, is given in memory of Vereen Bell, Class of 1932, who was
killed in action in World War II. Bell was the author of the very successful novel Swamp Water and several
short stories. He was considered a very promising young writer in view of the works he had written. The English
Department sponsors the honor award. This year, less than forty authors submitted entries to the contest. Of these the English
Department picked and submitted seven entries for final judgment. The final judge for the best entry was Guy Owen, PhD
in English, who was on campus this past week on leave from Stetson University. Dr. Owen, himself a novelist and
poet, is author of the novel Season of Fear, and founder of the poetry journal impetus to help emerging poets.
The Fine Arts Committee sponsored his stay on campus. Carrell’s Council Leaps Into Legislative Action After the first two meetings
under President Danny Carrell, the Student Council has two new by-laws to the constitution and a new Freshman Court to
show for its efforts. In addition, the council last week passed a request that the faculty strike the holiday clause
from the new cut regulations. the necessary two-thirds majority to be added to the Student Body Constitution at last Thursday’s
meeting of the council. The council also elected the following to next year’s Freshman Court, to be headed by Chairman
Spud Stewart: rising seniors Larry Leafer and John Killian; rising juniors Howard Arbuckle, Bob Dixon, and Dave Lopp; and rising
sophomores Phil Squier and Will Jackson. Also at last week's meeting, Carrell announced that he would attend the National Student
Association Conference to be held at Belmont Abbey this coming weekend. Assistant Dean of Students John Kuykendall is also to
attend. The conference will Simpson Bucks Weather, “Let’s See If We Can Outrun Cop” be on the “Role of the
Student Government,” and North Carolina Governor Terry Sanford will be the keynote speaker. The Student Council last week officially passed
on a statementTo express appreciation for ex-president George Trask’s work for the past year, at the meeting Wednesday night, Carrell
made a few announcements and stated that he felt the faculty would take some positive action on the council's request
about the holiday clause. He also announced that questionnaires sent out to each campus organization must be in by the
deadline on them, or they would not be chartered for next year.

Festivities Flow Freely From Frolickers’ Spring

D Club, Torch Singer Will Entertain Tonight

The last late date is made. The last shaft letter lies shredded in one of the waste cans at the
post office. This evening the 1962 Spring Frolics weekend opens with laughter, music, dancing, and off-campus parties. “I have never
had such a slim dance weekend,” dorm supervisor Mrs. J. B. Moore commented Wednesday. If the condition has remained constant
as she expected, about 80 of the 600 beds set up for dates in Belk and Richardson dormitories will be
unused, making this the year’s most sparsely-attended dance weekend.

First officially scheduled activity is the D Club “Foolies” in Chambers auditorium from 7 until 8:30 p.m. Following, from 9
until 12 p.m. is a semi-formal dance in the gymnasium. The Clemson Jungleers are providing dance music; Dakota Staton will
sing “torch songs” during the intermissions.

The “Foolies,” annually presented during Spring Frolics by the D Club, is based this evening on the differing impressions a
Davidson student returning home gives to first his parents, then to a prospective student, of fraternity life at Davidson. It
will be presented as a two-act play, in which D Club members will play both male and female roles. The
show features two musical groups from Queens College, and two from Davidson. Sarah Pollard and the Queenston Trio have come
from Queens; Hub Knox's combo, The Dimensions, and Alex Bernhardt represent Davidson. In the intermission, the trophy for the year’s
outstanding freshman athlete will be presented by D Club president Bruce Usher. The dance will have a figure which will
be used to present the newly elected IFC representative and the fraternity sweethearts.

The only IFC scheduled activity for Saturday is a concert by Lester Flatt, Earl Scruggs, and the Foggy Mountain Boys
at 1 p.m. Flatt and Scruggs, recognized as best in the “bluegrass” music field, play with unamplified instruments, so the
concert will be held indoors in Chambers auditorium instead of outdoors as earlier planned. New IFC president Johnny Rogers noted
this afternoon that admission for the “Foolies,” the dance, and the concert will be under the new policy. This policy
requires fraternity men to present a pin or card, and Independents to present a ticket.

Other events on campus will be the Davidson Relays at 3 p.m. on the track and the North Carolina State
Instrumental Solo and Small Ensemble Contest at the Fine Arts Center. The police force anticipates a quiet afternoon with most
students and their dates leaving the campus. John Kuykendall, Assistant Dean of Students, noted today that the curfew hours at
the fraternity houses will be 5 on Saturday morning and 3 on Sunday morning, the same as on past dance
weekends. He reminded students of the recently-enacted rule which requires a minimum of two couples to be present when dates
are in a fraternity house.

Bryant Will Head Wildcat Cheerers

Bryant will head the cheerleader squad next year. Bryant, a rising junior from Atlanta, was chosen by the other cheerleaders
after being elected to the squad in student body voting Monday and Tuesday. He is a member of Phi Delta
Theta fraternity and plays on the soccer team. Bruce Covington, another rising junior, was also elected to the squad. He
is a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. “It is unusual for a junior to be elected, but I think
Bryant is unusually capable of doing a good job,” ex-head cheerleader Joe Martin stated after the election. Next fall the
cheerleaders plan to work with the incoming freshmen at the “Y" camp and before Rush Week. They also plan to
use more tumbling with their cheers next year.

Equipment For First Flick

BY DON STOWELL
Davidsonian Feature Writer

What does it take to make a film? If junior David Simpson were asked that question, he would probably respond
with a string of very basic Anglo-Saxon terms, largely unprintable, for he and a devoted crew have been making “Aurora”
for weeks and it is still not ready for release. Simpson's original screenplay, written for Creative Writing, was completed shortly
after the second semester had begun. The dialogue sections were somewhat revised and the cast selected.

START FILMING

Even before the only girl in the cast had been chosen, Pat Douglas, Stuart Jamison, and Simpson began shooting —
the first scenes at a professor's home. Two Saturday afternoons and a Sunday morning were required to film the first
ten or fifteen minutes of the story. The dialogue scene between Pat and Stuart required that both men be smoking.
In the five hours needed to shoot the five-minute sequence, each used a full pack of cigarettes. After Dianne Harris
of Charlotte was selected to play the dream girl, Aurora, rainy weather delayed shooting the required outdoor and evening sequences.

PRE-DAWN SHOOTING

However, one Saturday at 2 a.m. filming was begun on the two street encounters on South Tryon Street in Charlotte
in front of the North Carolina National Bank. The last sequence in the film was shot first because the battery-powered
movie light borrowed from WBTV had a life span of only 15 minutes. It died out as the last scene
was being shot. About 4 a.m. the street meeting in the dream was shot and Simpson secured himself on the
hood of his car to get tracking shots of Pat driving through the deserted city. The sun rose to find
the shivering group beside the Catawba River near the site of the old Graham place, just south of N.C. 73.
The wind had gotten so cold that Dianne, dressed in a white chiffon gown, had to be covered between shots.

EDITING AND SOUND

Another day was spent making incidental shots in the dormitory, an office in the College Union, and in an exhibition
room at the Fine Arts Building. Film had been processed as shooting went along and the job of editing mounted
into untold hours. Bill Pruitt was shown the film and began work on the soundtrack music. One of the rolls
of the dream sequence had come back over-exposed and had to be sent to the processors for correction. Finally, the
roughly edited film was sent to New York for soundstripping, a one-eighth inch strip of magnetic recording tape secured along
the length of the film.

(Continued On Back Page)

SIMPSON operates on his new Festival. An original score by fraternity house.
