THE LIVELIEST WIRE ON THE HILL.

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. L PUBLISHED FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON NUMBER TWENTY-TWO

Golden Anniversary Issue Recounts Important News Of Fifty Years

THE FOUNDERS — The men shown above, as they appeared in a ‘rival’ publication, the annual, are the dedicated nine who formed the staff of the paper that first notable year.

Three Predecessors Fail To Make Grade
BY MAC PLAXICO
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Before the first DAVIDSONIAN came off the presses on April 1, 1914, three other newspapers had had their short lives at Davidson. The first of these was The Davidson College Enterprise, which appeared in 1883 and lasted only one year. It was edited by R. G. Sparrow, who lived in Davidson and later entered Davidson College, class of '88, where he was a brilliant student. The Enterprise was edited independently by Sparrow and had no connection with the college despite its name. It was advertised as ‘one of the cheapest weeklies in the world” at 75 cents per year.

Timely Topics, the second of the three, was edited by the Sophomore Class in 1895 and only one issue was put out. It was published as an experiment with the idea in mind of a future college newspaper. It consisted mainly of articles better suited for a magazine format, such as “South Carolina Cotton Mills” or “The Hawaiian Affair,” and it also contained three poems.

LAW SUIT THREATENED
Its one really big news story — on a train wreck at Greensboro — was described in graphic detail, but the account was probably a fictitious one. However, perhaps the account paralleled the actual event too closely because the Southern Railroad threatened to sue the writer of the story. With such gruesome details as “the continuous, awful hissing of escaping steam, the hideous shriek of women and the hopeless, agonizing groans of the dying,” it is easy to see why the Southern Railroad was concerned.

OBSERVER WAS MODEL
Timely Topics was “modeled upon The Charlotte Observer. If anything is amiss in it, readers are requested to blame the model.” The paper was supervised by Dr. W. S. Currell, who later became president of the University of South Carolina.

The third newspaper, The Athletic, began hesitatingly, as most institutions begin hesitatingly. Many questions arose, questions such as “Why a college weekly? Does it have a real value? What will it stand for?” Opposition arose. Opposition on the ground that there wasn't enough news to fill four pages. But Frank Price and his staff knew better. They saw the possibility and value of a college paper at Davidson. They ignored the dissenters and went to work.

Frank Price had ambitious plans for THE DAVIDSONIAN. He envisioned the newspaper as the unifying agent in an increasingly diversified student body. “Even in a small college, life becomes more and more complex... The college newspaper should... keep (every college group) acquainted with each other, and thus promote a feeling of mutual interest and encouragement.” Yet this was not all the newspaper should do. The College was growing, its alumni were increasing, and the queen of thy Conel Tolls, obih rabrs anpertant matter, are A A An nesighils dav dram on Maw! me srt was Hiled at g cost ot abort Bide! Posey s 7 semester.

Last semester's issues have already started achieving their own recognition also, winning the Overseas Press Club Award for outstanding coverage of international issues. This issue concludes the papers published under the 1961-62 staff, headed by David Jordan, editor. It also concludes 48 years of DAVIDSONIAN history.

Paper Honors Early Founder
This week THE DAVIDSONIAN is celebrating the occasion of its 50th volume of news and editorial reporting on the college campus, commemorated by this special eight-page edition. The paper is 50 volumes, but not 50 years old. The first edition actually appeared 48 years ago on April 1, 1914 under the editorship of Frank Wilson Price, who is on campus today to help celebrate the occasion. The number of volumes exceeds the years because the unusual campus situation in the summer of 1944 necessitated a special volume of THE DAVIDSONIAN. With over 200 students on campus in the ASTRP program, life went on just like a regular session, including a five-issue volume of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

This issue of the newspaper attempts to recreate some of the more important and interesting news stories and editorial features since 1914. The intervening years have seen the paper go to as many as 10 and 12 pages weekly, expand and shrink its column size and introduce photography and cartoons. For many years, THE DAVIDSONIAN served as campus newspaper, alumni journal, and town paper. A special section of each week's issue was devoted to alumni “tidbits,” or town book club gatherings and the like. It is fitting that this issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN will go once more into the home of every living alumnus. The alumni office has purchased 9,500 copies for this mailing.

Both world wars saw the paper turn over whole pages to reports of Davidson men in the service and war news in general. In turn, these periods were followed by issues devoting extensive space to pleas for peace — the League of Nations and the United Nations. THE DAVIDSONIAN has always been quick to the occasion for a special edition. Notable “extras” through the years have included the Woodrow Wilson visit, the Chambers fire, the Million Dollar Campaign Drive, the Davidson Centennial, Cunningham's resignation, Martin's appointment and later his inauguration, the famous 1960 Trustee-integration issue and finally the present 50th volume commemorative edition itself.

The newspaper has not been lacking in favorable recognition through the years either. The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association honored THE DAVIDSONIAN as “the best paper in the state” for two consecutive years, 1924 and 1925. These were the first two years the organization was in existence. During the 1920's and early '30's, THE DAVIDSONIAN acquired the tag of “The Best College Newspaper In the South.” The Associated Collegiate Press joined the bandwagon in declaring the paper an “All-American,” its highest possible distinction, for the first time in 1937. That distinction has been one maintained consistently by the paper since that time, the most recent “All-American” coming this fall for the 1961 spring semester.

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
Davidson College
Davidson, North Carolina
March 26, 1962

To THE DAVIDSONIAN:

It may come as a surprise to you and to the student body that I consider THE DAVIDSONIAN one of the outstanding features of the educational program at Davidson College. I extend congratulations on the 50th anniversary of the paper and hope for its continued and increased success and influence during the next fifty years.

I have not always agreed with the “facts” as reported by the editors and reporters of the paper, and I have frequently disagreed with editorial comment, but I have never failed to read an issue from cover to cover with pleasure and profit. It is somewhat discouraging to realize that time has passed so rapidly that I am considered to be one of the early editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN, having served in 1931-32, (the nineteenth volume of publication). The entire four-year experience, even in those ancient times, was one of the most important features in my total education. It is my conviction that time invested by a student in THE DAVIDSONIAN is certain to pay rich dividends throughout the life of the individual. It is my conviction that the records made by the editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN are increasing, andIts influence was being felt. THE DAVIDSONIAN appeared in 1907 and apparently lasted only one year. It was edited by W. B. Gillispie, class of '07, with Dr. H. L. Smith, then president of Davidson College, as the contributing editor. The Mecklenburg Progress was a private enterprise and had no official connection with the college.

SMALL TOWN FORMAT

Its format was that of a typical small-town newspaper, a mixture of local and several days old state, national, and international news. Ads and jokes were indistinguishable from news stories by their headlines. From 1908 until the first DAVIDSONIAN in 1914, Davidson was without a newspaper.

I am sure that I speak for the college in expressing to THE DAVIDSONIAN and all those associated with it, and particularly to the new editor, David Dillard, and his associates, our best wishes for an even greater DAVIDSONIAN in the years ahead.

— D. Grier Martin

BY JEFF WAMPLER
Davidsonian Assignments Editor

"At an enthusiastic meeting on Wednesday night, March 18, the Davidson College Student Body voted for the establishment of a weekly newspaper." So began Volume 1, Number 1, of THE DAVIDSONIAN on April Fool’s Day, 1914.

Woodrow Wilson was busy carrying the burden of many responsibilities. Some sanitary officers asked for measures to control the spread of disease. Yet at Davidson, they founded a newspaper. The question of the repeal of the Canal Tax required his close attention. But he still found time to speak briefly to William J. Martin, President of Davidson College. The interview was carried as the lead story in that first issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

"Hak-a-rak-a-boom-a-lack! The baseball season has been ushered in, and during the past few days the varsity has been getting in better shape, and Coach Cook is satisfied that the Red and Black Machine will come out on top ere the season has closed." Sports, too, occupied a place of prominence in Volume 1, Number 1 of THE DAVIDSONIAN. By April 1, the baseball team had won two games and lost one squeaker. Prospects were good for a championship season.

Social life was not neglected in the first DAVIDSONIAN. This article ran in the corner of page 3: "An enjoyable event of the week, breaking the monotony of routine work, was the stag dance given in the Commencement Hall last Saturday evening by the German Club. Music was furnished by Monsieur Morrison’s select trio of musicians. There will be another dance next Saturday night at 9 o'clock to which everyone is invited. Admission, 10 cents. Tango and all latest dances permitted."

All newspapers must have ads. The first DAVIDSONIAN had 18. One read like this: "R. J. Shelton; Livery, Feed, and Sale Stables; Phone No. 74-L, Davidson, N. C." Or another: "Eat At Frazier's Cafe—'Ain't The Gravy Good?'"

So with President Wilson and a college cheer and Frazier’s good gravy, THE DAVIDSONIAN was launched.

Volumes

Woodrow Wilson Receives Pres. Martin

Pleasant Recollections of College Days At Davidson

MANY OTHER NOTABLES SEEN

Despite the fact that President Wilson is exceedingly busy at this time, owing to the critical situation in Mexico and the question of the repeal of the Canal Tolls, which among many other important matters, are requiring his close attention just now, President Martin, through the kindness of Senator Overman, secured a short interview with the President on last Thursday, March 26. After waiting for about thirty minutes, President Martin was cordially greeted by Mr. Wilson, who laid aside heavier matters of State to recall pleasantly for a few moments his college days at Davidson and to inquire about the institution as it is at present. He spoke of President Martin's father, whom he familiarly called “Colonel” Martin, and of his two sons, showing that he still intimately recalled even the small matters of his college days. He also expressed regret that ill health had compelled his withdrawal from Davidson at the end of his freshman year. This is a clear explanation of the facts connected with his leaving, which is a matter that has not been fully understood by everyone before. After a word about Mrs. Wilson’s brother, Professor Axson of Princeton, who was also a Davidson Freshman and a classmate of President Martin, a hearty handshake and a mutual expression of good wishes, the visit was over. It was only a short interview, but characterized by directness, simplicity, and cordiality. President Martin, in speaking of Mr. Wilson, said: “Mr. Wilson is to me better looking than his pictures, though they are exceedingly like him. He gives you the impression of strength, with much of it held in reserve.”

—THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 1, 1914

CRITICISM

It would be an abnormal newspaper that did not elicit much comment upon its first appearance. THE DAVIDSONIAN will suffer the same fate. You will talk about it as soon as you see it, and again when you have read it. But there is criticism and criticism. The criticism that is sinister, careless, and thoughtless will injure the paper; the criticism that is open, helpful, and thoughtful will do more than anything else to build it up. We ask for your criticism, free, candid, and suggestive. Tell us how we can make THE DAVIDSONIAN better. Give us your constructive, not destructive criticism.

—THE DAVIDSONIAN, Apr. 1, 1914

WOODROW WILSON, center right, visited the campus in the spring of 1916, when this same picture graced the front page of THE DAVIDSONIAN, as the first real “news photo” in the paper’s development. President W. J. Martin is escorting the President.