PAGE FOUR

CLASS TIES replace singed headgear.

Fraternities To Present Plays Halloween Eve

BY JIMMY DOWNEY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Drama Department Workshop presents a study of the playwright Bertolt Brecht and his works. The fraternities participating in the Halloween evening production are the Pikas, Sig Eps, Sigma Chis, and Betas.

The Pika production, under the direction of Walter Edgar, is Robert Frost’s The Masque of Reason. The play, along the order of Green Pastures, is a religious-philosophical comedy. The characters are Leon Whitehead as God, Dick Hicks as Job, Lynwood Littlejohn as Job’s wife, Jim Overton as Man, Preston St. Clair as wife, and Larry Outlaw as Satan.

The Sig Eps will present a look at human love in poverty, in Wolfe Mankowitz's The Bespoke Overcoat, directed by Jim Tanner and Jerry Hopkins. Actors in this pathos are John Wilkins, Harry Blakeslee, Eric Taylor, and Sam Rose.

The Sigma Chis’ play is entitled Bertha, the Bartender’s Beautiful Baby, by Charles George, and directed by Frank Gohlke. Participating in this old-fashioned melodrama are Helen Pharr, Sandy Wheaton, Connie Cassell, Mimi Martin, Ginger Thompson, Fred Schoen, Paul Daniel, Dave Owen, and Dick Nickel.

Toby Bethea will direct the Betas in their dramatic presentation of excerpts from John Brown's Body by Stephen Vincent Benet. In this historical narrative are Zack Smith, Steve Clark, Sam Glasgow, Jim Bradley, Tommy Hamilton, and Alec Morgan.

According to the department, the workshop productions are the most important parts of the dramatic program. They give stage presence and an appreciation of the arts in a liberal-arts college.

Debate Team Takes Tie For Second

The Davidson debate team pitted their skills against teams from seven other colleges, Oct. 20 and 21, in a three-round series. Eleven teams representing Duke University, Wake Forest, Appalachian State Teachers College, Lenoir Rhyne, Gardner-Webb, High Point College, Wingate, and Davidson participated in the tournament. Appalachian State Teachers Team No. A took first place, winning six out of six rounds. Duke and Davidson tied for second place with 5-1 records.

Yesterday the varsity team journeyed to Macon, Ga., for the Dixie Debate Tournament held at Mercer. Members of the varsity group are Bob Liewellyn, Harry Daniel, Skip Jones, and Hal Brown. The novice team, composed of freshmen James Curl, George Kuykendall, Albert Keiser, and Bill Pierce, travel to Winston-Salem on Nov. 2 and 3 for a tournament with Wake Forest.

Testers Set Date For Teachers Exam

The Educational Testing Service of Princeton, N. J., announced this week that the National Teacher Examinations will be given on Feb. 16, 1963. The tests are necessary for acquiring a teacher’s certificate. North Carolina requires all incoming teachers, with or without experience, to obtain this certificate. An incoming teacher may teach for one year without the certificate, but thereafter his salary is reduced $20 a month until he receives it. Applications, accompanied by the $10 fee, must be received by ETS before Jan. 18.

Club Goes German Tomorrow Evening

“Sauerbraten” will be the fare as the Club Internationale visits Germany, Saturday, Oct. 27, from 6 to 12 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union. As part of the evening's entertainment, the club will present Erich Wruck in a comedy act. Music for dancing will be provided by freshman Sidney Farrar at the Union's new Conn organ. The club uses a different nation each month as the theme of its dinner, and the food, music, and entertainment complement this theme. On Nov. 17 the program and meal will feature American food and a Thanksgiving motif. All members of the college family and their guests are invited to attend. Admission is five dollars and is available by reservation only.

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Cole
Hampton
Mebane
Driesell
Lester
Moore
Gallent
Lindsey
Purcell
Goodykoontz
Logan
White, H. E.
Ghigo
McGill
Winkler

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1962

Congress, Cuba Balk Gerrymandered Jonas

BY GEORGE WILLIAMS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Representative Charles R. Jonas, although not one to plead a cold in missing an appointment, nevertheless arrived at the Monday assembly 20 minutes late saying, “Well, there was a detour between here and Charlotte.” And there were nods of agreement.

Ferris Asks Warren for Y Book Program

BY BILL AITKEN
Staff Writer

“The purpose of the YMCA Book of the Year is to bring a current author, whose works have received national acclaim, to the campus and to stimulate fresh, new ideas among the students,” Bill Ferris, chairman of the Book of the Year Committee, told THE DAVIDSONIAN in a personal interview.

The committee is awaiting a reply from Robert Penn Warren, author of All the King’s Men, who has expressed a desire to come to the campus for this year's program. No definite plans will be made until final word is received from him sometime next week. Already the committee has corresponded with six prominent authors in an effort to engage them for the program. The Attorney General, Robert Kennedy, author of The Enemy Within; Barry Goldwater, who wrote The Conscience of a Conservative; and Arthur Miller, author of Death of a Salesman, have been contacted in connection with this program. Night of the Iguana by Tennessee Williams, Atlas Shrugged by Ayn Rand, and the controversial Advice and Consent by Alan Drury have also been considered for the program and their authors invited to visit the campus. Due to other commitments all

Vespers Sunday

Dr. Wade P. Huie, Jr. and Rev. Samuel R. Hope will deliver the upperclass and freshman vesper sermons respectively this week. Huie is now Professor of Homiletics at Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga., and Rev. S. R. Hope is now at the Forest Hills Presbyterian Church in High Point.

Huie received his AB at Emory University in Atlanta, his BD at Columbia Theological Seminary, and his PhD at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland in 1949. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Kappa Alpha Order.

Rev. S. R. Hope is a graduate of Davidson College. He won a fellowship to Andover-Newton Seminary where he earned his Masters Degree. He served as a Pastor in Roanoke, Va., before conforming comfortably.Going to the Forest Hills Presbyterian Church in High Point. Mostly taken from Brecht’s own words. Hansford Epes, now at the University of North Carolina, one of the original Vagabonds, will assist in the production. Epes’ major study is Brecht.

Admissions Office Reports 180 Apply

Although this year’s Freshman class is barely settled, attention has already been turned to the prospective class of 1967 in the college admission office. About 180 applications for next year’s class have been received and others are coming in at the rate of 10 to 20 a day, according to Joe Martin of the admissions office. Of the 180, 73 are designated in the early decision category. This is a relatively new program initiated by the college two years ago enabling students considering only Davidson to receive word of their acceptance by Dec. 1. To be eligible for this plan, a student must have completed all application requirements by Nov. 1.

OPEN

Bottled under authority of Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina

Hubary Bottled under authority of Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina

Hope Preach, and he earned his PhD at the University of Edinburgh, had to decline the invitation to participate in the Book of the Year lecture this spring. The majority of these authors are working on forthcoming novels. This event is now in its fourth year. Past programs have featured Leon Uris, author of Exodus; Vance Packard, author of The Status Seekers; and Christianity and Communism Today, under the authorship of John Bennett. Each of these authors gave a morning speech in chapel, followed that evening by an informal talk and discussion with audience participation.

Non-ROTC Seniors May Study Language

The Department of the Army has announced that it will accept a limited number of non-ROTC graduates for enlistment in the United States Army Security Agency Reserve and language training at the United States Army Language School in Monterey, Calif. Enlisting as a private under the Reserve Forces Act of 1955, the college graduate will complete eight weeks of basic training, followed by comprehensive study of a European language. Upon completion of the study, which includes history and customs of the country, the graduate will then complete the remaining portion of the six-year reserve obligation in the 297th United States Army Security Agency Company. The program is designed for students who are interested in the study of foreign language and are not in the ROTC program; students will be able to put their knowledge to practical use. In general, the mission of the USASA is related to the application of procedures necessary to provide intelligence information, to supervise the security of the Army’s worldwide electrical communications facilities, and to determine what information of intelligence value may have been disclosed to unauthorized persons through insecure communications practices. To qualify for the program, students must be Seniors or must be the recipient of a bachelor’s degree; men with prior military service and those in Advanced ROTC are not eligible. Students interested in this program should contact Captain D. H. Threlkeld in the ROTC Department. Seniors should see Capt. Threlkeld as soon as possible.

60,000,000 times a day people get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!

ment in the post-Homecoming audience. In little time Jonas exhibited his sly delight in making the government of the Democrats damn themselves by their own words. After both blunt and painfully satiric remarks, a definite portion of the audience erupted with wild applause. Others, later identified only as A-students in economics, were heard mumbling something about a “cross of gold.” Obviously incomplete, Jonas’ speech ended with the bell, but a few of the students heard it begin again at the coffee and continue along the path to his car. He had said, “I am willing to bankrupt the nation for national defense.” Suddenly, this fragment of his own mood of fiscal generosity became relevant; it may force Jonas to revamp a campaign previously focused on national monetary irresponsibility. Everywhere Jonas appealed to the instructive belief that he who values money lightly will soon have none to value; he must now consider the reaction of his constituents to the threat of war. The Cuban crisis and the voters’ worry may well reduce the problems of the local textile industry to near irrelevancy; the people may make a more subjective choice of representative than they have done previously. What, then, can Jonas do to counter sympathy for a Democrat if that sympathy seems to rally the voters to his opponent? He, too, can only hope, pray, and shake hands, because this crisis is not the first in his campaign. Earlier, the North Carolina state legislature artlessly “gerrymandered” Jonas’ old Tenth Congressional district and left him a constituency half of which had never witnessed his campaigns. So that he would have the time to effectively cover these new areas, Jonas planned an intense schedule for the first weeks after the adjournment of Congress. Into October, however, “biased and inept leadership” compelled Congress to remain in session that it might complete its business. Now there is time for only the most superficial campaigning, and Jonas has to hope that Mecklenburg County will not choose another consort for the King.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

...for a life of pride and purpose

Among the young people being graduated from college in these times, there are some who think and feel—perhaps a little more deeply than the others—about the world we live in, the future we face. They ask, “How can I make my career really meaningful? More than just personally rewarding?” And many of today’s most successful young people are finding a fulfilling answer to these questions as officers on the Aerospace Team... the United States Air Force. They can tell you that no career could better combine the opportunity for achievement—and the deep inner satisfaction of knowing that they are helping preserve the very future of America. How can you become an Air Force Officer? If you are a college senior and not currently enrolled in ROTC, Air Force Officer Training School provides an opportunity to qualify for a wide variety of career fields. The graduate of this three-month course receives a commission as a second lieutenant. As the Air Force continues its technological advance, officers with college training will move into positions of increasing importance. For full information—including the opportunity to earn graduate degrees at Air Force expense—see the Air Force Selection Team when it visits your college, visit your local Air Force Recruiting Office, or write: Air Force Officer Career Information, Dept. SC210, Box 805, New York 1, New York.

FOR AMERICA’S FUTURE AND YOUR OWN... JOIN THE AEROSPACE TEAM. U.S. Air Force