THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 1962 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

Abstinence At Davidson Has Often Stirred Discord

Once upon a time, the Davidson student body was overwhelmingly against drinking. Sound like something out of “Alice in Wonderland?” But it’s true—in 1926 a poll to find out the student opinion of the Volstead, or Eighteenth Amendment, which enacted prohibition that year, and the vote margin went over four to one in favor of the drys. 

THE DAVIDSONIAN sponsored the poll.

BY DAVID STITT
Davidsonian Staff Writer

And how about this for a drinking rule? In 1927, the regulation said that anyone accused of drinking would be tried by the Student Council, and if found guilty, he would be removed from school. However, he had a right to appeal his case to a higher court, which was, of all things, the entire student body. All went well for a time, but then one year the student body picked up the bad habit of acquitting everybody the Student Council convicted, resulting in much loss of power and prestige by the council.

As this state of affairs left something to be desired, the council, under heavy pressure from the faculty, proposed two amendments to the constitution. The first read: “No student shall be guilty of drinking alcoholic liquors, being under the influence of, or having same in his possession on campus,” and it was passed by the necessary two-thirds majority vote. The other amendment was an attempt to make the senior class rather than the student body the appellate court for convicted drinkers, but this motion was soundly defeated.

The situation did not improve. An editorial in a 1929 DAVIDSONIAN decried the fact that the enforcement of liquor abstinence on campus by the Student Council weakened an otherwise strong liquor system at the school because apparently the Student Council members were already troubled with their responsibility of reporting drinking. But on the other hand, the editorial points out, if the matter is left to the faculty, then drinking would definitely increase. This dilemma of whether to strengthen the honor system or to keep drinking at a minimum had a real significance for the student body at that time, whereas this significance is gone today. In fact, one might ask, where is the problem?

Then in 1937 a light note was injected into the alcohol question when what apparently was one of the biggest stills ever uncovered in North Carolina was found in Davidson quite by accident by a sewage system installation crew.

Chapel Conduct Deflowers Davidson Southern Culture

The “Chapel Conduct” editorial has become almost a mainstay of the editorial page since the paper was founded in 1917—“It is not too much to say that the Davidson student body represents the flower of southern culture. But with all its virtues, there are also vices; one of them is the attitude toward daily chapel.” But, in examining the archives of the publication, it can be seen that the same editorial has been printed with unrelenting regularity on the second page of THE DAVIDSONIAN. “Their theme is always the same—the message they usually attempt to convey is the same—in fact, and this is one of Davidson’s secret traditions herein brought to light for the first time—it’s generally the same editorial. Each year in the spring, the old and new editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN meet under the tower in the dead of night and a sealed packet changes hands. The seal is not to be broken until the twenty-third of September the following fall—at which time and at six-week intervals thereafter, it is published under the heading “Chapel Conduct.”

“Yesterday, when the packet was opened—in a locked and darkened room, of course—it was discovered to our horror that the worn manuscript was missing. It seems that the editorial staff of Carolina’s Tar Heel, having heard of the powerful effect the old and treasured editorial exerted on the Davidson student body, had sent agents to the Hill with orders to return with the priceless piece of journalism or not at all. In spite of our constant vigilance, they somehow succeeded. Doubtlessly, the conduct at Carolina will improve overnight.

“Now, that we have no editorial to print on the Davidson students' disgraceful chapel conduct, the only hope left is that there will never be need for one.”

There was need—throughout the 1950s and even through March 29, 1962.

While running tests on the effectiveness of the new sewer system, the men were amazed at the great masses of corn mash which would float through the pipes every morning between 2 and 3, almost clogging the lines. Before an investigation could pinpoint the exact location of the still, however, the corn mash suddenly stopped flowing, and the men could only approximate the area of the still as being somewhere in the near vicinity of the college.

Later that year, however, drinking at Davidson dances became more of a problem, and under faculty pressure, the student body voted 285 to 88 to set up a board of supervision for the control of functions to see that there would be no drinking at Davidson dances. This board was composed entirely of students, and had the power to recommend a student's expulsion from school if he were convicted of drinking. This recommendation would be ruled on by the faculty, which had by now taken over that responsibility from the Student Council. Apparently, the formation of this board was the only means of staving off a faculty ban on organized off-campus dances.

Surprisingly enough, the next major change in the drinking rule at the college came in 1960-61, when the Honor Court under Scott Lacy realized that drinking had reached such proportions that the whole idea of student enforcement of the drinking rule was ridiculous, and it was placing Honor Court members in very uncomfortable positions. The one clause which was particularly controversial and ambiguous was the “under the influence” part of the regulation. Therefore, with the backing of the Honor Court, the Student Council presented an amendment to the constitution to the student body which deleted the clause “under the influence of alcoholic beverages while on campus.” The deletion carried by a vote of 415 to 90.

This action released the student body from its obligation to enforce the drinking rule and put this responsibility entirely on the faculty’s shoulders. Thus, 22 years later, the Davidson student body answered the DAVIDSONIAN editor's dilemma, which had indeed completely lost its significance.

Unchanged

“There is one point that could not be placed—the concept of honor has been both basic and permanent in Davidson life as this editorial from THE DAVIDSONIAN of Sept. 9, 1949 indicates. The ideals of the system have remained unchanged, only the means of its enforcement have varied. Until 1958, the Student Council was responsible for the trial of students accused of cheating, stealing, and lying under oath. At this time, the student body approved by a six to one vote a recommendation to create the present 12-man Honor Court which would assume all judicial powers held by the Council.

COUNCIL FREED

THE DAVIDSONIAN and Student Body President John Kuykendall were the prime movers of this change. The purpose was to free the Student Council from duties other than legislation, to provide trial secrecy, and, since Honor Court positions are permanent, to free the Council from political pressure.

The difficulties of enforcement were first brought to light in an editorial April 26, 1916. “There are many who would despise the thought of stealing, who think nothing of not returning a borrowed pocket knife. The man who can slip in and take a light from the gymnasium is considered more of a hero than a thief. It will be a smirch upon the fair name of Davidson if such a condition is tolerated any longer by its students.”

THEFTS INCREASE

Prompting or referring to texts during classroom recitation and gambling in its lesser forms (private bets on ball games, matching) were the sub-Honor System.Standing among Davidson's most honored traditions, the Honor System, in a very real sense, makes Davidson what it is. In which too much emphasis was placed on the subjects of an editorial of November 1926, requesting a broader interpretation of the honor code. The years of 1948 and 1958 each saw increases in the number of thefts reported. Thefts in 1948 resulted in the shutdown of a unique offshoot of the honor code, the student store. Established in October of 1923, the student store worked under a self-service honor system. The prices were marked, and the cash box was open for students to make their own change. Food was the main item stocked. As an editorial from that time said, “Were it not for the honor system now in effect at Davidson, the store would be an impossibility.”

$2000 LOSS

Twenty-five years later, however, the loss of $2000 in a three-month period forced the closing of the store. Said THE DAVIDSONIAN, “The honor system used in the student store is apparently being violated by a fairly large group of the students.” A shutdown was deemed necessary to prevent the honor system from being wrecked. The current question of liberalization of the code has its basis in minor discussions in the 60s. A poll of the student body in 1960 found that softening of the automatic expulsion rule was favored by a margin of 638 to 71. In recent years the Court has devoted itself to a redefinition and re-interpretation of the code to make it more applicable to the current situation, as in the question of enforcement, definition of pledged work, and with these, the education of the student body to the importance of the system.

(Continued From Page Four)

The year 1958 saw the proposal of a preferential bidding system. By this system, fraternities name the men they want in order of preference. Rushees also rate the fraternities they wish to join, and the IFC matches rushee and fraternity until each fraternity’s quota is filled. The listing of a fraternity by a rushee constitutes a pledge to join that fraternity should he be matched with it. If accepted by the fraternities, the system was intended to even the size of the fraternities before the move into the new fraternity court. The bigger fraternities could better the quality of their members while the smaller could increase their numbers. However, the fraternities voted this system down.

Remaining virtually the same throughout the years is the advice given to freshmen before and during rush. An editorial of October 1927 is typical. To those who will not receive a bid, “Particularly here at Davidson is the line between fraternity man and Independent scarcely visible.” To those who received bids but did not pledge, “You are no hero for many other men have done the same thing.” And to those who pledge, “To some freshmen last Tuesday night will be a turning point in their lives. In most fraternities, there are two groups—men who will do a new man good, while there will also be men who are apt to do him harm.” It is up to the freshman to choose.

The cooling propensities of lightest-weight Batiste are now joined to the texture and weave of fine Oxford. The result? A cotton conservative that will stand up to the warmest days in style. ©1962-Gont Shirtmakers $5.95

Bush Wilson, Ltn- Dick O’Hair H. Perrin Anderson Vernon T. Anderson, Jr.

PLANNING CONSULTANTS, INCORPORATED “Insurance and Financial Planning Service” Charlotte, N. C.

V. Reitzel Snider, Jr. W. Delbert Turner, Sr. Charles E. Black, President C. A. Potts J. V. Lore F. L. Jackson L. Young White Wm. H. Jetton Eugenia H. Deaton Donald F. Howie F. L. Jackson Wm. H. Jetton J. V. Lore Thad M. Lowe D. Grier Martin

STATEMENT OF CONDITION PIEDMONT BANK & TRUST CO. Assets and Liabilities of Insurance Department Not Included In Above Statement

-LET US SERVE YOU — COMPLETE BANKING SERVICE-

OFFICERS DIRECTORS PIEDMONT BANK & TRUST CO. Member F.D.I.C. Davidson, N. C.

RESOURCES Dec. 30, 1961 Dec. 31, 1960 Cash and Due from Banks $1,069,709.29 $ 978,981.16 United States Securities 1,041,979.98 888,731.57 States, County and Municipal Bonds 935,922.03 783,521.42 Obligations of Federal Agencies 522,833.13 334,389.38 Loans and Discounts 2,828,445.62 2,381,444.99 Banking House, Furniture and Fixtures 84,195.48 75,305.29 Branch Clearance 1,701.53 924.80 Other Assets 35,206.06 29,817.06 $6,519,993.12 $5,473,115.67

LIABILITIES Capital Stock $ 200,000.00 $ 200,000.00 Surplus 200,000.00 200,000.00 Undivided Profits 165,732.73 120,178.72 Unallocated Reserve 20,000.00 20,000.00 Other Reserves 138,409.93 119,709.81 Deposits 5,795,850.46 4,813,227.14 $6,519,993.12 $5,473,115.67

Chm. of Board President Vice President Vice President Asst. V. P. & Cashier Asst. Cashier Asst. Cashier Hoy A. Moose C. A. Potts W. L. Teeter W. A. Thompson L. Young White

HOLY LAND, 1945 — Merrymakers celebrate Spring Frolics, the second dance to be held on campus. Prior to Midwinters 1945, members of the student body were forbidden “to dance on the property of the Church.”

Dancing Flood Finally Came After Prolonged Dry Spell

“We sometimes wonder whether or not the powers who determine whether we dance on the campus would oppose the dances if they witnessed a Davidson dance and actually sensed the high plane upon which they are conducted.” —THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 19, 1942.

Before the first dance could be held on campus in February 1945, students had had to conduct a long campaign. In 1935 an editorial in THE DAVIDSONIAN accused the college of “moral laissez-faire” in its policy toward dancing. The editorial claimed the college was saying in effect, “take your moral problem elsewhere, settle it to suit yourselves.” It continued, “The only way to clean up dances is to control them, and they can be controlled... at home.”

In this same month, the Student Policies Union, composed of 80 percent of the upperclassmen, petitioned the trustees to allow dancing on campus. The Student Policies Union was organized to improve the social conditions on campus by bending “current student opinion... into reasonable channels.” The petition pointed to the problem of drinking at the dances at Charlotte. “Certainly it must be concluded that a large proportion of those who go to Charlotte never reach the dance floor...” It was also pointed out that outsiders attended the dances—“strange men are accompanied by strange women and both of unsavory character.” However, it was stated “We ourselves doubt that they (Davidson students) do invite indecent women.”

Speaking of one objection to dancing, the petition commented, “Ugly things have been said about the motives which a majority of Davidson students have in asking girls to dances,” but that only a few instances warranted such assertions. A petition presented in 1931 by, among others, Dean Rusk, then president of the YMCA, had received a negative reply from the trustees. The students were referred to an appeal of the 1930 General Assembly that quoted the Scriptural commandment: “Come ye out from among them and be ye separate... Touch not the unclean thing.”

Drinking at the dances in Charlotte became so serious in 1938 that Dean of the Students M. E. Sentelle issued an ultimatum to the students in THE DAVIDSONIAN to “choose between Davidson dances without intoxicating liquors or no Davidson dances at all.” Finally, in February 1944, THE DAVIDSONIAN could announce that “There WILL be dances at Davidson!” One professor predicted that after the novelty wore off, the students would go back to holding dances in Charlotte. Yet the next fall, THE DAVIDSONIAN was editorializing against the abolishment of dances off campus, which had apparently accompanied the permission for dances on campus. The paper pointed to a lack of adequate facilities on campus. In the fall of 1949, the first dance on campus in several years was held in the then-new Johnston gym. With an adequate place for dances now on campus, Davidson settled in its present routine of on-campus dances.

You're needed... just as your father and grandfather were. It's an obligation that a lot of qualified college men have to meet... that of serving your country, when and where you are needed. And the Air Force needs college-trained men as officers. This is caused by the rapidly expanding technology that goes with hypersonic air and space flight. Your four years of college have equipped you to handle complex jobs. You have the potential to profit from advanced training... then put it to work.

There are several ways to become an officer. First, there is Air Force ROTC. Another program, relatively new, is Officer Training School. Here the Air Force commissions certain college graduates, both men and women, after three months’ training. The navigator training program enables you to win a flying rating and a commission. And, of course, there’s the Air Force Academy.

An Air Force officer’s starting salary averages out to about what you could expect as a civilian. First, there's your base pay. Then add on such things as tax-free rations and quarters allowances, free medical and dental care, retirement provision, perhaps flight pay, and 30 days’ vacation per year. It comes to an attractive figure. One thing more. As an officer, you will become eligible for the Air Force Institute of Technology. While on active duty many officers will win graduate degrees at Air Force expense. Why not contact your local Air Force Recruiter, or write to Officer Career Information, Dept. SC15, Box 7608, Washington 4, D.C., if you want further information about the navigator training or Officer Training School programs.

U.S. Air Force

There’s a place for professional achievement on the Aerospace Team.