ACADEMIC FREEDOMS & “OUTSIDE” PRESSURE (See Page Two) VOL. L

L. MENDEL RIVERS preaches the old-time religion — he’s for “the American individual.”

Rivers Sings Blues For Reds And Whites
BY BILL RUTH
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Early this week a U.S. Congressman stepped from the pages of Advise and Consent to air his political views on
the Davidson campus. The protagonist in question was the Hon. L. Mendel Rivers, U.S. Representative from Charleston, S. C.

“He is the epitome of what people in the North consider to be the typical Southern Congressman,” stated a Davidson
student from New Jersey. Rivers did indeed give such an appearance. His long white hair combed straight back, and his
navy-blue suit and white tie combined to suggest a man of venerability and political savoir-faire.

SEEK DIRECT ANSWERS

At the coffee hour following Rivers’ speech in Chapel, students began immediately to fire pointed questions at the congressman, seeking
direct answers.

“What do you think about the John Birch Society?” Conservative-minded Rivers answered: “I positively won't say anything about it. I’m
no more for the J.B.S. than I am for the A.D.A.”

But Rivers had come to Davidson a professed conservative and most of the early questions were along this line of
thought.

“So far all conservatives seem to be Southerners,” began another student. “What do you define conservatism as?” To this Rivers
replied with the laconic phrase: “I don’t know.”

BIRCH SOCIETY

“People who claim to be in the Birch Society seem to be pretty nice people,” stated the congressman when pressed
to a definite stand on the subject of rightist groups. Rivers was complimentary to his conservative fellow travelers, although he
seemed to disagree with questioning students as to who was on his bandwagon and who was not.

“Fulton Lewis—he's a good man. I don’t know him, but he’s a good man.”

“As far as I know, Walter Judd is no conservative.”

“I’m supporting America with everyone going my way,” continued Rivers. “To decide what is American I let my intuition guide
me.”

Present at the questioning session was Hannah Miller of The Charlotte Observer. “You're a pretty gal,” said Rivers, “and pretty
gals have always been able to get everything I have.”

Miss Miller's questioning continued. “I usually answer from the abundance of my ignorance,” stated the congressman before answering her next
question.

FOR THE RECORD

—On the topic of resuming atmospheric nuclear tests: “Absolutely.”
—Are taxes too high? “Positively.”
—Have times changed since the era of Abe Lincoln? “Definitely. We have TV.”
“Everybody has two cars and God knows how many TVs. I’ve got four and I don’t even watch TV, except
for something classical like Andy Griffith.”
—On the possibility of dropping tariffs and encouraging free trade: “That's going to be quite a thing, because I believe
Common Market is tied up with that thing.”

As lunchtime grew nearer Rivers expressed his desire to get the U.S. out of the U.N., purge the communists from
the clergy, overhaul the tax structure and blockade Cuba.

—In the Congo: “Tshombe is the only one of those man-eaters I trust.”

RECOGNIZES CONSTITUENT

As the congressman got up to leave, a constituent from South Carolina introduced himself to (Continued on page four)

BY DAVID STITT
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Davidson College Board of Trustees will convene on campus next Wednesday, Feb. 21, for their midwinter meeting, which will
be highlighted by an address by Secretary of State Dean Rusk in Charlotte.

Although a specific agenda is never released by the board prior to the actual meeting, business will generally consist of
several committee reports, and a report to the board by college President D. Grier Martin. The specific contents of President
Martin’s report are being withheld until the board meets, but he will discuss matters of current interest to the board
about the college, its educational program, and any progress, changes, and improvements in any facet of the college’s program.

The board will definitely be presented with the results of the faculty and student polls calling for integration, and some
action is expected regarding integration of the college. Other matters the board is expected to take up include the proposed
change in cut policy, the approval of honorary degrees, any faculty changes for next year such as sabbatical leaves, and
a report on the college curriculum and financial situation.

Ordinarily the board would conclude its February meeting sometime in the afternoon, but this year the majority of the board
members will be special guests of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce the night of Feb. 21 at a dinner featuring
the speech by Rusk. The topic of Rusk’s talk has not yet been released by the State Department, but he
is expected to make a major policy address on the world situation.

Sig Eps Win IFC Trophy

The Sigma Phi Epsilon pledge class won the Interfraternity Council trophy for the most outstanding pledge class of 1961-62. The
trophy was presented to the fraternity group this week.

Second place in the competition went to the pledges of Beta Theta Pi, and the Sigma Chi freshmen were in
third place. The Sig Ep group was the rather obvious first place winners, according to Fraternity Liaison Officer John Kuykendall.
The award was based on pledge class rankings in the Homecoming decoration contest, the pledge project competition and skit night
as well as pledge class grade averages. The Sig Eps had earlier placed first in all four areas.

Judging the competition over the semester were professors Tom Clark, Charles Ratliff and Bill McGavock and Kuykendall. The professors had
each been chairman of committees judging competition in the individual areas.

“I thought the Sig Eps had as good or better pledge class program as any on campus both from a
week to week standpoint and for the whole semester,” Kuykendall said. “A careful pledge-planning committee did a terrific job.”

Senior Ken Moore was pledge trainer for the winners, while Bob Graham served as president of the pledge class. Warren
Stevens is the fraternity president.

Competition was much closer for the second and third places. The Betas had placed second in the skit night and
class project contests, while the Sigma Chi’s were third in skit night with a high scholarship average and high rated
project.

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1962

BOARD RECEIVES INTEGRATION REQUEST
Trustees Gather For Feb. Meeting

Entertainment will also include a concert by the Davidson College Male Chorus. The dinner will be in Charlotte’s Park Center,
and will begin at 7 p.m.

In view of the special dinner in Charlotte, nothing out of the ordinary has been planned for the trustee’s luncheon,
which will be served at the College Union. Also, contrary to the procedure in past years, the trustees’ schedule for
the day will not include a guided tour of the campus.

The Board of Trustees consists of 51 men, who are elected by the Presbyteries of North Carolina and Florida, by
Asheville Presbytery of Appalachian Synod, and by the Alumni Association. Trustees is the Reverend J. McDowell Richards, of Decatur, Georgia;
Vice-President is Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow, of Charlotte; and Secretary is Frank P. Hall, of Belmont.

THE GAY 90's were a resplendent social era at Davidson. At a fancy-dress party in 1895 a group assembled for
this antique photograph, now in the possession of Chalmers Davidson, college antiquarian. Dr. Davidson knows of several of the individuals
still living in the Davidson vicinity.

FEB. 27 — MARCH 27
Student Council OK’s Election Procedures
BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Student Council Wednesday night approved the rules and dates that were submitted by the Elections Board for this year’s
Student Body Elections. From Feb. 27-March 27, students will nominate or vote for student officers for next year, ranging from
President of the Student Council to class officers.

In the Student Council meeting, the question under heaviest discussion was to decide if a student would be allowed to
vote a partial ballot without his ballot being declared void. By an 8-3 vote the Council decided that in cases
where more than one person is to be elected to the same post, a voter may cast votes up to
and including the number of candidates to be elected.

On Tuesday, Feb. 27, students may nominate Student Council officers for 1962-63. The president must come from the rising Senior
Class, as must the first vice-president. The second vice-president must be nominated from the rising Junior Class, while the secretary-treasurer
will comefrom the rising Sophomore Class. All students may nominate any eligible student for any of the Student Council offices.
The voting will be held Wednesday, Feb. 28 - Friday, March 2, with all students eligible to vote. After the
polls close March 2, not more than four nor less than three men will be left as finalists for president.
These men will give speeches in chapel on Monday, March 5. The speeches can run no longer than six minutes
each. A forum will be held in the Morrison Room of the College Union that night, so that students may
have an opportunity to discuss any matter with a presidential candidate. Final balloting for president will be March 6-7.

On Thursday, March 8, the Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman Classes will nominate men from their respective classes for the Honor
Court. Voting will be on Friday, March 9, and Monday, March 12, and each class will select two members for
the Honor Court. The YMCA presidential chapel on Tuesday, March 13, and the voting will be done the next day
for all YMCA officers. A “Y” committee will nominate the men running for these offices. On March 15, the rising
Senior Class will nominate candidates for Freshman Advisor from their own class. On Friday, March 16, and Monday and Tuesday,
March 19-20, they will select one of their nominees for Freshman Advisor, and the entire student body may vote for
the publications’ editors.

Class officers will be nominated by the Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman Classes on Thursday, March 22. Each class will vote
for its officers on Friday, March 23 and Monday and Tuesday, March 26-27. After this, nominees will give speeches in
a round of voting, Student Body elections will come to a close for another year. All voting this year will
be conducted from 9:10 a.m. - 7 p.m. in the lobby of Chambers. Eliminations will be determined by keeping the
candidates with the majority of votes on the next day’s ballots. Election results, including the vote count, will be posted
in both the College Union and Chambers as soon after the closing of the polls as possible. THE DAVIDSONIAN will
carry the vote count on the Friday after voting for a particular office has ended.

The nominations for the various offices will be conducted from the floor in chapel in writing. All nominations are secret.
A list of the candidates nominated will appear in the Union and in Chambers by 1 p.m. the same day.
All candidates desiring to run for office must submit a written statement to Clay Atkins, Chairman of the Elections Board,
in 103 Belk by 11 p.m. the same evening. The Student Council and Elections Board wish to encourage discussion of
candidates and issues. However, no combination of candidates will be allowed.

Observer Offers Fete For Editors

Editor David Jordan and his assistants Don Saunders and Lee Kirby will be the guests of The Charlotte Observer next
Tuesday evening at the paper’s annual banquet for college newspapers. Editors of collegiate papers throughout the state will be present
for the five-hour program. Following the banquet, the journalists will tour the newspaper plant and discuss common problems and activities.
Seminars will be headed by members of The Observer and The Charlotte News’ staffs.

Pre-Dance Virus Threatens Campus

The flu bug hit the campus this week, reviving memories of the “lost weekend” of 1957, in which the Homecoming
festivities were cancelled. The latest rash of cases is not nearly as serious, however. Dr. J. B. Woods, college physician,
said that approximately 45-50 students have been to the infirmary for treatment. Beds have been set up in Chambers basement
in case the infirmary becomes too crowded, but as yet, these facilities have not been needed. Dr. Woods advised students
who have the classic symptoms of a cold, fever, and general aching to report to the infirmary for treatment. He
noted that this should be done both for the student’s own good and to prevent the spreading of the virus.
Dr. Woods further advised students “not to panic and listen to wild rumors that are circulating.” He recommended that students
get as much rest as possible during the dance weekend.

Dean Rusk

State Arrives On Campus This Wednesday

Delivers 2nd Reynolds Lecture

BY AUSTIN LETSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dean Rusk, Secretary of State and Davidson graduate of 1931, will be on the campus next Wednesday and Thursday, Feb.
21-22, as the second Reynolds Lecturer of the current year. Rusk will be fulfilling a standing invitation to come to
Davidson which has been his since before his appointment to the state department office by President John F. Kennedy. He
was formerly head of the Rockefeller Foundation.

The official Reynolds Lecture is not scheduled until Thursday night, but Rusk is the guest of the Charlotte Chamber of
Commerce Wednesday.

IN CHARLOTTE

Rusk and his party, which will include his wife and three security guards, will leave Washington at 3 p.m. Wednesday
and arrive in Charlotte two hours later. Included in the reception party are President D. Grier Martin, who was a
student here with Rusk, and Joe Robinson, president of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce. That evening at the Park Center,
Rusk speaks to the Charlotte businessmen's group on what is expected to be a major policy address. Immediately following the
banquet, the party will leave for Davidson with an expected arrival time of 11 p.m. The group, traveling in three
Cadillacs, is to have a police escort. If a large crowd greets Rusk, he will probably make a short talk
then. He and Mrs. Rusk are the guests of President and Mrs. Martin during their stay on campus.

CHAPEL ADDRESS

Rusk’s first scheduled speech to the student body will be an informal, off-the-cuff talk during chapel period Thursday. Regular chapel
seats will be reserved for students and guests will be seated in the remaining space and in the old dining
hall below the auditorium, which will be wired to carry the speech. A coffee hour is scheduled in the Morrison
Room of the Union following the chapel. At noon, Rusk will move to the Baxter Davidson Room for a press
conference. Thirty to 50 journalists are expected to be covering his visit. Three classrooms with six telephones installed in each
have been vacated for press use. Kappa Alpha fraternity has invited Rusk for lunch. He was a KA during his
student days at Davidson. He will spend the afternoon visiting friends in the community and preparing his evening address.

INFORMAL VISITS

Rusk worked in Davidson during the summers at the Piedmont Bank and Trust Company, and therefore met a number of
townspeople. He also has many friends on the faculty who were here as teachers or students during his four years.
Coach Lefty Driesell has also invited him to visit the gym and watch the basketball team work out. A varsity
letterman in basketball, Rusk has been keeping up with this year’s team and has wired Driesell twice. Thursday night, some
of these old acquaintances will dine with Rusk and his wife at the president's home.

REYNOLDS LECTURE

The high point of his visit will come at 8 p.m. that evening when he delivers the Reynolds Lecture. The
topic has not been announced, but is expected to concern our national policy, foreign trade, or the common market. Either
following the lecture or the next morning, the Rusk party will return to Washington.

Vespers Features Dramatic Reading

Universal Day of Prayer will be observed by students this Sunday night at the 7:30 vespers service. Students will conduct
all parts of the service. Jim Glenn is chairman of the YMCA group which has planned the program. James Davis,
Pat Douglas, Doug Heidt, and Pierce Howard will be dramatic readers. John Cooley will read the Scripture. Val Frakes, assistant
to the college chaplain, and Pat Douglas have assisted Glenn in the planning of the service. Rev. Russell T. Montfort,
of the Davidson Methodist Church, will hold communion service after Vespers at 8:45 in Lingle Chapel.

Paper Captures National Award

THE DAVIDSONIAN has placed third among collegiate non-dailies for its foreign coverage in a national competition sponsored by the Overseas
Press Club and the Reader's Digest. The $50 award was announced by John Luter, OPC President, at the Fourth International
Affairs Conference for College Editors in New York on Sunday, Feb. 11.

CASH AWARDS

The OPC and Reader's Digest made awards of $150, $75 and $50 in each of two categories: university papers which
publish daily and college and university non-dailies. The basis of selection was the extent and quality of news, feature and
editorial writings which deal with foreign policy and foreign events. THE DAVIDSONIAN won third place on the basis of a
report submitted by the editors which documented DAVIDSONIAN progress in the field of foreign coverage. Among the articles included were
interviews and editorials relating to foreign study, news commentary features by Davidson students and Richardson scholars, and regular news stories
relating to foreign personalities and events.

144 PAPERS

The awards were made as a part of a conference co-sponsored by the United States National Student Association and the
OPC Feb. 9-12, at which approximately 200 student editors represented 144 collegiate newspapers. Scholarships given by the Reader’s Digest covered
the cost of room, board, and partial travel expenses for 100 delegates. Lee Kirby, DAVIDSONIAN Associate Editor, was the recipient
of one of these awards. R. Sargent Shriver, Peace Corps Director delivered the keynote address Friday night at a dinner
at the headquarters of the OPC in New York. Other speakers included Roger Tubb, Under Secretary of State, Robert Considine,
columnist and foreign correspondent, Senator Wayne Morse, and Erle Cocke, Jr. of the World Bank. The theme of the conference
was “Reporting a World in Crisis."
