The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BILL HAGEN
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

EP WILLER
Business Manager

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Seasoned Greetings

Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus. He's a fat red plastic bubble with a white painted-on beard and a
hollow heart. He is worshiped by thousands of merchants and millions of givers and receivers and exchangers. He spreads millions
of dollars worth of joy and sentimentality, though he doesn’t spread it very evenly. Thousands of charities and gift funds
try to take advantage of the temporary softness of his normally hardened followers.

Hundreds and hundreds of orgiastic rites are held in his honor every winter—in houses, in church basements, in country clubs,
and even in college unions. You can smell his spirit on the breath of his followers and see the stains
his spilled libations made on many floors. Frenzied musicians and wild dancers perform in his name, and glittering gaudy symbols
of his power are lavishly strung throughout the streets and buildings, including tall trees and holly wreaths. He is reincarnated
a thousand times simultaneously in every department store, television station, and church parlor. He is a great spirit who tries
to blow away every frown or serious thought for many days, who penetrates every household, and deceives every child into
obedience. He blows once a year in a raging storm of spending and celebrations, then rests until the next Thanksgiving
in moldy boxes and Christmas Savings Plans.

Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus. You see him on every street corner futilely ringing his little bell for
the passers-by. You see him lifting unsuspecting children onto his knee and convincing them that they want a white elephant
for Christmas. You see him on the TV selling watches and aspirin and dancing with his erotic female helpers.

But, Virginia, don’t confuse Santa Claus with Saint Nicholas, and don’t let them tell you he gave the Virgin Mary
a baby for Christmas. Listen, listen in silence beyond the laughing, screaming Bacchanals, listen. Listen for a still small voice.

J.K.A.

Football On The Line

Davidson's football program is, and probably will remain, its most perplexing problem. No one is particularly satisfied with the situation,
yet no one can seem to come up with a solution to it. How are these for incongruities?

1. The overall scholastic average of our football team is consistently higher than the student body average. However, the scholastic
demands and entrance requirements of the school are a major obstacle to our recruiting program.

2. We are able to give 42 full football scholarships next year,—an increase of four over this year—which means that
over two-thirds of our players will receive some assistance. However, we are still in the cellar of the Southern Conference
with respect to the number of football scholarships given. In fact, we are 16 below the next lowest school, William
and Mary.

3. With the exception of scholarships, the overall program (includes recruiting, equipment, transportation, etc.) suffers generally from a lack of
funds. However, gate receipts this year—admittedly a bad year for the team—left the program approximately $10,000 in the black.

4. No one is arguing that Davidson maintains its football program merely to give the boys a chance to play
the game. A sport which, along with basketball, consumes 34% of the living endowment begins to look a trifle expensive
under such an argument. Yet few would like to see Davidson give up football, or even see the team pulled
out of a conference in which it ought to be able to hold its own.

On top of all this, students and alumni continually cry, with some justification, for a strong team (i.e. a winning
season). After all, if Davidson must field a team, it might as well be the best (isn’t everything else?).

Frankly, we don’t know the answer to the problem; no one does. However, it does appear that Davidson’s entire attitude
towards football needs to be re-evaluated.

J.M.W.

The Fall-Out Follies

“These are the times that try men’s souls.” This is, of course, a quote from one of those forefathers we
like to emulate so much. Yet we wonder how these founding fathers would look on the American public’s tendency to
“go underground” every time a crisis breaks out. We can't help thinking that they would disapprove of an American public
that frantically builds more shelters rather than calling for a cessation of nuclear testing. But at least Davidson’s current activities
show that we are in the mainstream of public action (or reaction).

Yes, we, with other schools, have decided that it’s time we were prepared for the worst (This is not to
be confused with Armageddon). Salem College has discovered that their Moravian fathers had enough foresight to build structures that far
exceed government specifications for shelters. In fact, they’ve got the best facilities in town (residents of Winston-Salem take note). Catawba
College not only has shelters but it’s giving first aid courses. Vanderbilt University students have discovered that one of their
shelters is used to store garbage in peacetime. And we've got the halls of Chambers...

But, believe it or not, we have done the other schools one better in this realm. Our shelters are not
only fall-out shelters but, according to the latest Davidson College Bulletin, they are bona-fide bomb shelters! This should be a
real boon for prestige. In fact, it makes us sound pretty darned strategic! What with 13 Rhodes Scholars, the new
computer and all...

Anyway, now that we're IN, we too will be able to join that national pastime called hide-and-go-seek. And here are
the rules: (1) You create a crisis; (2) Everyone must run to their shelters and hide their eyes; (3) You
wait for the countdown to end (We let Sam do that.); (4) Then you come out to see if there’s
anyone left. (5) Then you can start all over.

Associate Editor
Knox Abernethy

Editorial Assistant
Jim Williams

Assistant Editor
Bill Ruth

Managing Editors
David Stitt
Jeff Wampler

Sports Editor
Bill Pridgen

Assignments Editor
Charles Ramberg

Feature Editor
Greg Govan

News Editor
Charles Dibble

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Staff Assistant News Editor
Jimmy Downey

Photographers
Joe McCutchen
Buck Lawrimore

Cartoonists
Dan Adams
Joe Howell
Walter MacDonald

Advertising Manager
Charlie Smith

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

The Kids And The Party: 2 7 The Word =. Barium Springs Sketch

BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Seventy-five to one hundred years ago, Barium Springs was a health resort where people came for rest and a drink
of barium water to restore their physical vigor. Today, Barium Springs no longer features the water from the spring but
is rather a service of healing for boys and girls under the care of the Presbyterian Church. The present superintendent
is a Davidson alumnus, Rev. Albert McClure, ‘31.

In its beginning, the Home had less than 25 children. At its maximum enrollment, more than a quarter of a
century ago, there were 365 on campus in an unbelievably crowded condition. Present working capacity for the Home is 225
boys and girls. Ordinarily, 12 - 16 children, ranging in age from six to 18 or 19, live in one
building. Residence in the Home varies according to the needs of the child. He may be at Barium for one
or two years, or it may be necessary for him to stay until he is graduated from high school. An
earnest effort is made to keep in close touch with the family and, if the way be clear, to return
the child to his own community at the earliest possible date. In the event that this is not possible, he
may continue at Barium Springs until he has finished high school. The Home considers the graduates to be children of
the church and makes provisions for them to receive further education or training or assists in securing employment for those
who want work. This is financed through the educational fund which is being supported by the memorial gifts—memorial gifts made
in the past and those continuing to be made through the memorial fund. There are at present two dozen Barium
alumni in 14 colleges, as well as numerous others in vocational schools. As is true generally, many of the high
school boys and girls have married after graduation and have begun their own homes. Barium graduates are found in the
ranks of nearly all the professions. The roster shows that men and women are ministers, teachers, psychiatrists, dentists, coaches, carpenters,
plumbers, bank presidents, lawyers, army officers, postmasters, nurses, morticians, and others.

There is a great variety of activity on the campus that requires 50 to 60 adults. In addition, every child
in the Home has a job equal to his age and ability. The girls serve in the dining room, help
prepare meals, work in the laundry, in the sewing room, in the infirmary, and in the office. The boys are
assigned to the dairy, to the 40-acre orchard, to the 500-acre farm, to the maintenance of the 35-acre campus, to
the shop crew for painting and repairing buildings, and to the gardens.

As far as institutional work and its place in the total picture of child care, it is commonly agreed that
there is a threefold function in child care. Children are provided for through adoptions, through foster homes, and institutional care,
the latter of which Barium Springs is one of the finest examples. In North Carolina, there is fine cooperative effort
on the part of the denominational, fraternal and state agencies in rendering services to the children of this state.

For nearly 20 years, part of Davidson's relationship with Barium Springs has been the annual Christmas parties around the fraternity
court. With these parties soon coming up for nearly 100 children from grades one through eight, it would be well
for all Davidsonians to bear in mind the comment of Reverend McClure, “If the children had to make a choice
between Davidson and Heaven, it would be a most difficult choice indeed.”

Vi WIA ivawve i.e By Adams Ves

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Complete Individualism Not Key To Progress

Dear Editor:

While reading the editorial page of last week’s DAVIDSONIAN, an article with the heading “Love of Organization Reveals Fear of
Self” caught my eye. The first time I read it, only minor pangs of disgust welled up inside of me;
but after reading and rereading it, I became

Stowell Outlines Vagabonds Purpose: To Share IdeasThrough Dramatics
BY DON STOWELL
Assistant Director of Dramatics

Anyone reading last week's lead editorial, “An Evening in the Village,” by Bill Ruth was undoubtedly confused as to just
what the Vagabonds have been doing or why we have bothered doing anything. I am still not sure exactly what
he was saying, but I would appreciate the opportunity to comment on several matters he brought up.

First of all, the words “vagabonds” and “ghetto” do not fit well together. A vagabond is a rover, a traveling
player, while a ghetto is a quarter inhabited chiefly by Jews. If Mr. Ruth was implying that Cave Counterpoint was
inhabited chiefly by Vagabonds, let me dispel that idea. I do not recall seeing half of the Varieties audience in
the Fine Arts Building except on the rarest occasions. Furthermore, the Vagabonds is composed of a great variety of people
with very diverse opinions and ways of working, held together by factors brought out further along in this article.

Second, the point of the Vagabond Varieties was to provide an outlet for anyone who wanted to do anything, not
to “achieve the liberty” we crave. In an informal situation such as the Cave, the limitations of a prepared script
and setting are not in evidence, as in a play, so I suppose we had a certain liberty. At the
same time, there was more of a duty to keep the evening interesting and informal, and that takes more work
than may be obvious. The program was loose and varied. Nothing was censored, a fact that somewhat bothered some of
the participants. But, at the same time, no one was forced to read or play or sing anything he didn't
want to. Since the Varieties was primarily a show put on by students, any “liberty” was something desired by the
students involved.

The statement that the “Vagabond Ghetto... attempts to impose upon the Establishment the same liberty by force,” is perhaps the
greatest evidence of muzziness (mental fuzziness) in the editorial. It should be quite obvious that the Vagabonds do not force
either participation in events or attendance at them. If this were the case, the cast and crew of GALILEO would
not have been embarrassed at the curtain calls opening night as they looked into the emptiness of Hodson Hall and
into the faces of perhaps 25 people—fewer than the cast assembled on the stage. If force were employed, there would
have been a full house. Indeed the cry arises every year, “You can’t build a drama group without student support.”
After all, Dr. Goodykoontz and I are not working to entertain ourselves, or to please the administration, or to romp
through college funds. We are trying to offer (not force) drama to the student body. I feel that through participation
and attendance at Vagabond productions part of the educational process at Davidson may be aided. How much more valuable to
see or be in a production of an important play than to be forced to read that same play in
a class and be required to fire back answers to questions about it.

No, Mr. Ruth, Drama does not best serve the dramatist. No dramatist I know of wrote or writes primarily for
his own pleasure. He writes to communicate. So do most poets, believe it or not. Thus, the most obvious thing
to do with a play is to produce it and the best thing to do with a poem is to
read it aloud. For in order to do either well, a great deal of study and thought must go into
the process. One cannot act out a part in a play without understanding that part both as an individual and
in terms of other individuals on the stage, without understanding what the playwright is trying to communicate through the play.
In the same way, a poem cannot be read intelligently without an understanding of what the poet is trying to
say and how he says it.

The Vagabonds do not want “cheers, banners, parades,” although certain members of the “Establishment” may at times offer them as
pacifiers. What the Vagabonds do want is much more difficult to offer. I believe the Vagabonds want to share ideas,
thoughts, feelings, which are common to all mankind and have been so and will remain as long as a heart
beats somewhere. Does the Establishment really not understand? I believe it does. However, various specters, such as Graduate Record Examinations,
reviews, term papers, etc., may scare an individual into believing that since he won't be tested on a feeling it
is not as important to cultivate as lists of names, dates, or places.

It is true that “That which liberates the creativity of one may not do the same for all.” That is
why the productions this semester are so varied: AGAMEMNON, a Greek classic; THE MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER, an American
comedy; GALILEO, an experimental German play; and now WINTERSET, an American verse tragedy by Maxwell Anderson. These are done to
entertain and to educate, but primarily to communicate. There is no interest in creating a “following” or coterie, a ghetto,
if you will, but in communicating the great pieces of dramatic literature. The Vagabonds is not Dr. Goodykoontz, or me,
but all students, faculty and staff members, and townspeople who have found in dramatics an educational experience, an opportunity to
go beyond self in working with others, and just plain fun.

A drama program designed with the students in mind, as the Vagabond season unashamedly is, cannot function successfully without student
attendance and interest. This is a fact. This has nothing to do with “liberty” being “a personal thing” or “a
truly free man” being “an individual... an artist.” This has to do with flesh and blood human beings who are
concerned enough about their education to take time to learn a part, paint sets, arrange lights, build costumes, apply make-up,
sell tickets, seat people, spend fifty cents to see something recognized as being important in literature. This is a personal
thing. What is worth the time, energy, and money? What are you at Davidson for? Is it possible that the
Vagabonds do something worthwhile outside the classroom, the library, and the lab? I think so and there are many Davidsonians
who think so. There are also some who don't. This is the personal matter, whether you are an artist, an
athlete, or a scientist. You don’t have to cheer, but you owe it to yourself at this educational institution to
give what the Vagabonds stand for a chance.
