PAGE FOUR

‘Capricious’ Cat Report: Ney Not Underachieving

After a year, how does our mascot look? THE DAVIDSONIAN decided to try and find out this week whether or
not our wildcat has hit a sophomore slump after his year in the Carolina Piedmont. Now that the results of
the investigation are in, Dean Burts and the faculty can relax. Wildcat lovers can relax. Peter Stuart Ney IV is
not underachieving. In fact, he has done quite well publicity-wise for the college. When he went to spend his vacation
at Charlotte's Nature Museum, WBT-TV was on hand to get film shots of the cat's first feel of real ground
since his capture. He delighted them by rolling over and over on the good earth in the alligator's cage. The
cage was completely equipped with everything the cat needed for a comfortable living. Only the alligator was missing. It was
not very long before Davidson’s mascot became the museum’s top drawing card.

Even some of the directors went out one night, just to see Peter Stuart Ney. They entered the rabbit's cage,
next to where their star attraction lay sleeping in the alligator's pool. (Thought felines hate water? Ours is no different.
No alligator, no water in the pool.) As the honored visitors turned to watch the rabbits, the cat charged from
the depression, stood on his hind legs, and clawed the wire separating the startled guests from him. The next day
a new sign graced the front of the cage: “Danger, Wild Animal, Keep Three Feet Back.” The incident did not
cause the cat to lose tenure. But in the last half of the summer, he did lose the star’s role—to
a penguin. Again an old adage was proven, no matter how good you are, there is always someone better who
comes along. But a penguin? The summer at the museum definitely improved the cat's health. The feeders there gave meals
on a regular schedule, to which our mascot is still eager to adhere. They also fed him better food than
he ate here.

But back to Davidson and Slater, the cat eats only half of a chicken a day. Food means money, and
the cheerleaders are planning to make Homecoming into Wildcat Day and pass the megaphones. Last year $180 was collected in
that manner. Members of this year’s freshman class have shortened the mascot's long name. Some of them have begun to
call him the “Stuart Cat.” Maybe the frosh have some talent after all. At least one member of that ill-fated
class fancies himself an authority on felines, Pinckney Whitson calls himself a wildcat trainer. He has even volunteered to take
over the job of feeding Stuart and cleaning out his cage—no mean job, just a nasty one. And Pinckney may
get a job to do some training—toilet training.

Up until Whitson broke a sacred ROTC rule, Joe Martin, last year’s head cheerleader, was the only one who had
the courage to feed the cat. Now, Whitson has taken over the job and is doing quite well. The cat
seems to like him, and he has not been scratched yet. The cheerleaders are planning to make a big thing
out of Homecoming this year. They are going to have a parade, and the cat will be in it. They
are also going to have a pep rally, and the cat will be there too. The cheerleaders are hoping that
the cat will bring them good luck. They need it. The football team has not won a game yet this
season.

Presents Concert

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Frederickson
Lobanov
Puckett
Albergotti
Goldiere
Miller
Wheaton
Blackwell
Holland
Partridge
Woods
Fogleman
Hopkins
Pietenpol
Workman

On Lake Davidson

College may be guilty of counting chickens before they hatch. It appears that the Lake Norman property that college officials
have spoken so glowingly of isn’t quite ours yet. In an article released in the Charlotte Observer this morning, a
Duke Power official declined to comment on the assertion that “a sizable tract of lakeshore property ... has been set
aside for Davidson students, faculty, and alumni.” He said only that officials of the college had indicated an interest in
a site and that informal talks had been held. Business Manager Robert A. Currie was probably nearer to the truth
than he knew when he stated in THE DAVIDSONIAN last week that, “The unfortunate thing at this time is that
we don’t know exactly how much land Duke Power will give us behind our shoreline.” The story in the bulletin
relates the plans and work that are already in progress on the site. Besides facilities previously reported in last week’s
DAVIDSONIAN, it lists as “under consideration,” a lakeshore amphitheatre for classic drama and concerts and shelters for summer seminar groups.
The bulletin story also states that “It is probable that Davidson will have a crew for intercollegiate competition and regattas.”

Bethea’s New Plays

By TOM PEADEN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The first public performance of Paul, Paul, by Toby Bethea, a Davidson senior, will open the 1962-63 Davidson College Drama
Workshop. The play, which will be presented on Oct. 10 at 8:15 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College
Union, is a religious drama that deals with a college boy who is seriously questioning Christianity because of the great
differences in certain basic beliefs. The ministers represent the modernist, the middle-of-the-road, and the fundamentalist outlooks in the play, which
is under the direction of Don Stowell. Although casting is not yet complete, Walt McNairy will portray the student, and
Dr. Clark and Captain Hampton are two of the three ministers. The Ballad of the Eight, which was first presented
in a chapel program, wrote Paul, Paul for Creative Writing last year and has since rewritten a good deal of
the fifteen-minute production.

Organist Peeters

Flor Peeters, Flemish organist and composer, gave a concert tonight in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The concert marked the
opening of the 3rd Annual Sacred Music Convocation. Peeters performed the works of Bach, Buxtehude, Clerambault, Franck, and Couperin; and
he closed with four of his own compositions: Passacaglia and Fugue, Jesus Priceless Treasure, How Brightly Shines the Morning Star,
and Toccata, Fugue, and Hymn on “Ave Maris Stella.”

The performance of The Last Word, which was scheduled to be presented with Paul, Paul, has been cancelled. The Workshop
Series serves as an informal approach to play production. Most of its performances will take place on only one night,
and the selections are those which have a meaning for college students.

HEY NEY — Kaky Williams peeps in on Peter Stuart Ney, IV in a meeting between wildcat and wildcat booster.
(Photo by McCutchen).

Queens U.V. Group Seeks Improved Ties

Queens ladies and Davidson gentlemen met Sept. 27 to discuss Davidson-Queens campus activities and how to bring the two schools
closer together. Representing Queens were Mary Faith Carson, chairman of social activities; Beth Rivers, student body president; Charlotte Gaulding; Janet
Allison; and Joyce McCubbon. Chaplain Will Terry, C. Shaw Smith, Danny Carrell, student body president; Neil Nichols, YMCA president; Ben
Cole, president of the Union; and Henry Keiter, Union social chairman, represented Davidson at the meeting. The group discussed how
the Davidson and Queens campuses might work together socially and academically, and how to solve problems in scheduling and publicity.
Some of the items brought before the meeting were the possibility of a joint sponsorship of a concert with a
social event afterwards, a joint drama production, small group symposium, a Union party, exchange of chapel programs, and concerts presented
by the combined Davidson and Queens choirs. Also mentioned were joint Christmas parties and other events to plan closer relations
between Davidson and Queens students.

Brown To Deliver Vespers Address

Dr. Charles Lynnwood Brown, pastor of the White Memorial Presbyterian Church of Raleigh and ‘37 graduate of Davidson, will address
vespers in the college church Sunday evening. Preaching at freshmen vespers in Hodson Hall will be Rev. Jerry D. Murray,
minister of the College Place Methodist Church in Winston-Salem. A native of Concord, Dr. Brown received his BD and ThM
degrees from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. He also studied at the University of Montpellier in France, Chateau de Bossey
in Switzerland, and Union Theological Seminary in New York. In 1959 he received an honorary DD degree from Davidson. Brown
is also the former pastor of the First Church of Knoxville, Tenn.cheerleader (now with the administration), was feeding the cat
work. And believe it or not, miss the job. “After spending time last year building a cage, giving up my
blankets so that the cat could keep warm, and staying up nights talking to him to keep him from becoming
too lonely, I became pretty attached to him. He got so that he recognized me as the guy who brought
out the food,” Martin told me. Martin is not a bit sorry that the Class of ‘62 decided to pay
for Stuart's cage as their class gift. After all, he has more in the way of time and trouble than
anyone else invested in the cat. With a plush pad, half a chicken a day, and a chance to act
ferocious at football games, our mascot is missing only one thing, a sex life. A veterinarian last year discovered that
the mascot’s “Frenchy” nickname, le Vieux Pierre Rouge, is quite apt because he is a “he.”

Lovely Shines the Morning Star, and Finale. The Sacred Music Convocation will continue through tomorrow and Sunday, with students from
colleges in both North and South Carolina attending. President D. Grier Martin also indicated, when questioned, that negotiations had not
been completed yet.

The Observer article, headlined “Davidson ‘Pledged’ Lake Norman Site,” quotes sections of a story in the Davidson College Bulletin just
released by the Alumni Office. Writer James K. Batten, a former DAVIDSONIAN editor, found that only word-of-mouth agreements had been
reached.

Taylor Blackwell, director of publications, said that he had “no comment” on the alumni journal article “except that it was
okayed by college officials.”

Delta Phi Alpha, national honorary German fraternity, will begin its year's activities next week in co-sponsorship with the German Club,
which includes all students interested in German. They will show two movies in the Dome Room at 7:15. These will
be free. Officers for the present year include President Steve Gramley, Secretary Mae Plaxico, and Treasurer D. C. Gilley.

Peeters arrived on campus last Wednesday and spent the week practicing. Peeters is a dedicated organist and music instructor. When
the Nazis overran his country, he risked imprisonment to cross the border into the Netherlands. He has been the organist
in the Metropolitan Cathedral in Antwerp, Belgium for the past 40 years. He is now Director of the Organ Department
of the Flemish Conservatory in Antwerp.

Murray, a graduate of Duke University and Duke Divinity School, has served pastorates in Belmont, Davidson (1953-1957), and Asheville. His
church in Winston-Salem houses the Wesley Foundation for Wake Forest College. Communion will be held in the chancel of the
college church after vespers at 8:45. Any student may substitute this service for vespers.

Meetings to review the news, discuss the “Y” Book of the Year, and other topics. Several problems were posed, among
these the problem of publicizing events of one college on the campus of the other school and the difficulty of
transportation between the two schools. This meeting was only the first of several such meetings.

NOW OPEN
The Hub
Just Across The Street
Hours — 9:00 A.M. till 9:00 P.M.

It does not appear likely, however, that Stuart will get to prove that he is a “man.” The last live
mascot on campus ate the result of his and the mate's efforts.

Subscribe Now at Half Price
Distributed from BOSTON LOS ANGELES CHICAGO

VERY IN
Objective news reporting
Constructive background material
Literary and entertainment news
Penetrating editorials

VERY OUT
Washing your sweaters in the nearest washing machine (you can, if they’re “Orlon”* or “Orlon Sayelle”**)
Sending your sweaters home to Mother for hand washing or seasonal storage
Digging deep into fun funds for emergency sweater cleaning
Saving on cleaning bills with great sweaters of “Orlon” and “Orlon Sayelle.” They come clean quickly in the wash.

Clip this advertisement and return it with your check or money order to:
The Christian Science Monitor
One Norway St., Boston 15, Mass.

Special offer available to college students. Faculty members, when subscribing themselves, and college libraries also eligible.

BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
“Orlon Sayelle” is Du Pont’s registered trademark for its bi-component acrylic fiber. “Orlon” is Du Pont’s registered trademark for its
acrylic fiber.

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf,” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

WHAT TO WEAR TILL THE DOCTOR COMES

Now that you have enrolled and paid your fees and bought your books and found your way around campus and
learned to hate your roommate, it is time to turn to the most important aspect of college life. I refer,
of course, to clothes. What does Dame Fashion decree for the coming school year? (Incidentally, Dame Fashion is not, as
many people believe, a fictitious character. She was a real Englishwoman who lived in Elizabethan times and, indeed, England is
forever in her debt. During the invasion of the Spanish Armada, Dame Fashion—not yet a Dame but a mere, unlettered
country lass named Moll Flanders—during the invasion, I say, of the Spanish Armada, this dauntless girl stood on the white
cliffs of Dover and turned the tide of battle by rallying the drooping morale of the British fleet with this
stirring poem of her own composition:

Don’t be gutless,
Men of Britain.
Swing your cutlass,
We ain’t quittin’.
Smash the Spanish,
Sink their boats,
Make ‘em vanish,
Like a horse makes oats.
For Good Queen Bess,
Dear sirs, you gotta
Make a mess
Of that Armada.
You won’t fail!
Knock ‘em flat!
Then we’ll drink ale
And stuff like that.

As a reward for these inspirational verses Queen Elizabeth dubbed her a Dame, made her Poet Laureate, and gave her
the Western Hemisphere except Duluth. But this was not the extent of Dame Fashion's service to Queen and country. In
1580 she invented the laying hen, and she was awarded a lifetime pass to Chavez Ravine. But she was not
to end her days in glory. In 1591, alas, she was arrested for overtime jousting and imprisoned for thirty years
in a butt of malmsey. This later became known as Guy Fawkes Day.)

But I digress. Let us get back to campus fashions. Certain to be the rage again this year is the
cardigan (which, curiously enough, was named after Lord Cardigan, who commanded the English fleet against the Spanish Armada. The sweater
is only one product of this remarkable Briton’s imagination. He also invented the glottal stop, the gerund, and the eyelid,
without which winking, as we know it today, would not be possible).

But I digress. The cardigan, I say, will be back, which is, I believe, cause for rejoicing. Why? Because the
cardigan has nice big pockets in which to carry your Marlboro Cigarettes—and that, good friends, is ample reason for celebration
as all of you will agree who have enjoyed Marlboro’s fine, comfortable, mellow flavor and Marlboro’s filter. So why don’t
you slip into your cardigan and hie yourself to your tobacconist for some good Marlboros? They come in soft pack
or flip-top box. Cardigans come in pink for girls and blue for boys.

© 1962 Max Shulman

Cardigans or pullovers—it’s a matter of taste... And so is Marlboro a matter of taste—the best taste that can possibly
be achieved by experienced growers and blenders—by science, diligence, and tender loving care. Try a pack.
