FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1962 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

OPEN THE GYM AT NIGHT

“We, the undersigned, desire the Administration to review the situation regarding the use of the gymnasium by the student body. At the present time, due to the amount of time required for varsity and freshman basketball practice sessions, there is very little time for general use by members of the student body. We would like to suggest a scheduling that would include night sessions for student use—or at least make allowance for giving several hours each day, or both.”

This is a copy of a petition that has been circulated around the student body for the last few days in hopes of eventually gaining more time for students to use the gym, particularly the basketball courts. We wholeheartedly agree with the aim of this petition because such a need does exist. We would also like to commend those behind this move for their constructive attempt to arouse student interest and work positively to solve a real problem.

Let’s look at cases. When can students play basketball in the gym? In the morning? In the morning, P.E. classes are being held during most periods, and when a group goes down to play then, they are usually run out—or at least limited to the side baskets. What about in the afternoon? In the afternoon, the courts are open from 1:30 until approximately 3 p.m. (Except on Thursday when the courts are free only from 4:30 until 5:45.) During these times when the court is available, there are often 50 boys out playing, which makes the gym pretty crowded. Not only this, but many boys who have fourth or fifth period classes or afternoon lab find it impossible to practice at all. A dilemma certainly exists. What can be done about it?

The boys getting up the petition don’t want to run the basketball team off the court because they need time to practice, but they do wonder if the court is not provided for the student body as well as the team. Having only one court does limit the time that the court is available. What, then, to do about it? The petitioners have a plan as well as a petition. (No, they don’t want to build a new gym.) Rick Lowery, one of the organizers of the petition, suggests that the gym be available some nights for student use. This is a practice followed by many, perhaps most, colleges in this area. Lowery points out that it would take only one man to keep the cage open, and if need be, this could be a student working in a similar setup to the one in the library. This plan has many good points and we believe it to be very reasonable. It wouldn't cost much, and it would end the problem of the little time available for playing basketball. Also, students would be able to use the other facilities in the gym at night. At present, Lowery says he has over 200 names on his petition and he hopes to get the signatures of more than one-third of the student body. Let’s get behind this thing and make it work—it will only if you lend your help and interest.

TEAM CAPTAINS ELECTED

Senior Bobby Austell was recently elected captain of this year’s tennis squad. Tennis coach Harry Fogleman reported that the election was unanimous. Austell played the number one position on the team last year and is expected to hold down the same position this spring. In an election held at a dinner in Coach Heath Whittle’s home last Thursday, the cross-country squad chose Tim Spiro and Ronnie Reese as co-captains of next year’s team. Spiro is a junior and Reese is a sophomore.

HOW ABOUT STUDENT SCOUTING?

If students at Davidson are interested in keeping good basketball here in the future, and we assume they are, here’s an idea that might be of benefit to our future basketball fortunes and Coach “Lefty” Driesell. Over the holidays, why couldn’t students who have top-notch high school players in their area go to some of their games and keep a shot sheet on them, including observations about how the boy plays on defense, etc. According to Driesell, this would be a big help to him when he begins to evaluate these boys. This idea of students scouting is actually the brainchild of Bill Klett from Atlanta who collected information and a shot sheet on a boy whom Driesell was interested in over the summer. This was done entirely on his own and earned Driesell’s hearty approval. How about it? Let’s try some scouting over the holidays—it might help us keep a good team at Davidson.

HEYMAN'S COMMENT

Art Heyman’s comment after the Duke game: “You know, as pest good.” (From Phil Grose in the Charlotte Observer)

TOTAL I-F SCORES (Not counting swimming entrance points)

Phi Delta Theta 307
Beta Theta Pi 305
Sigma Chi 279
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 168
Phi Gamma Delta 162
Kappa Sigma 161
Pi Kappa Alpha 114
Sigma Nu 95
Independents 93

the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

TOWERING OVER WOFFORD’S DEFENSE, FRED HETZEL continues his high scoring pace. HETZEL dropped in 29 points in Tuesday's Wofford contest to lead the ‘Cats in scoring for the third straight game. Look out VMI! (Staff Photo by Joe McCutchen).

The ‘Cats have never beaten VMI, and Coach Parker has high hopes of breaking the tradition. The team lost last year to the Keydets 24-5, but Parker quickly pointed out that the match was far closer than the score shows. “If a couple of very close decisions had gone the other way, we would have beaten them.” VMI, who finished third in the conference last year, appears to be even stronger this year. But so are the ‘Cat matmen. “We are stronger this year, and I think we might beat them. It'll be an awfully tough match,” Parker said.

Last Saturday, the Davidson Wrestlers scored an impressive 22-6 victory over Pfeiffer College in their first meet of the season. The team obviously heeded Coach Charlie Parker's warning not to underestimate the Misenheimer Matmen, and the score indicates a stronger Davidson squad this year. Individual match scores were as follows:

123 lb. — Tom Wright (D) pinned Charles Dickenson (1:16);
130 lb. — Mike Bisard (D) decisioned Larry Crumbley;
137 lb. — Art Merrion (P) decisioned Dick Ray;
147 lb. — Joe Parker (D) decisioned Jim Stokes;
157 lb. — Bob Hand (P) decisioned Joe Jones;
167 lb. — Bill Mills (D) pinned John Albee (5:21);
177 lb. — Tom Day (D) decisioned Bob Mauldin;
and Russell Walls (D) decisioned Jack Linden.

Coach Parker was especially impressed with the way junior Bill Mills handled himself in the match. “He had a tough opponent, and controlled him very well. He wrestled the best match.” These men should be the wrestlers against VMI and against North Carolina next week, with the exception of Dick Wray, who suffered a rib injury and will be out.For a month. Either Hugh Allen or Max Williams, both inexperienced, will replace him. Coach Parker also mentioned that since little interest had been shown, there will be no freshman matches this year. 6’-7” center Bobby Watson, forwards 6'-6” John Yurachek and 6'4” soph Jeff Gausepohl, and guards 6’ soph Joe Kruzewski and 6’-3” Bill Blair (who scored 26 points against West Virginia last Tuesday). Reservist guards 5’-11” Garry Kemple and 6’-1” Bob Byrd will likely see action. Wildcat coach “Lefty” Driesell admitted that the 'Cats can expect a tough game against the Keydets in spite of the fact that Davidson will probably be favored. “They're plenty tough,” he commented, “remember last year in the tournament they held Smith (Furman’s All-American candidate Jerry Smith) to five or six points.” Driesell added, “We'll be looking for revenge.” When asked if the ‘Cats may be looking past tomorrow night's game to upcoming games with Furman and Duke he quickly replied, “No, we're pointing for VMI. We've got to win these conference games.” He continued to say that VMI will be up for the game. “Everybody will be up for us this year,” he added.

Next Friday night the Davidson team will square off against Furman University at Davidson in another conference tilt. The highly touted Paladins have an All-American candidate in hard-driving 6-2" Jerry Smith. This flashy player from Corbin, Ky., led the Southern Conference in scoring last year with a 26.9 average. At the other forward post is 6-5" Gerald Glur, who was statistically second only to Jerry Lucas in rebounding last year. Glur pulled in an average of 18 rebounds a game while scoring at a 13.7 clip. Furman is picked to finish in the top three in the conference this year. Friday night's clash shapes up as one of their most important games of the season.

On Tuesday, Dec. 18, the ’Cats will face the Duke Blue Devils for the second time this season. The game will be played in the Charlotte Coliseum.

Davidson I-F Basketball Set: Starts After Exams

After the IMAC meeting last Wednesday night, President Steve Clark announced that interfraternity basketball will not be started until after semester exams. No schedule has been drawn up as yet. Clark also said that the handball tournament will be held right after Christmas holidays.

In Season's meet this year. Tomorrow, the ‘Cats play host to East Carolina, who are known for their strong swimming teams. “We know that we're going to have a rough season, especially before Christmas,” stated Dwight Shoe, the Davidson mentor. “This year, we're young and this factor will probably show, but we should gain valuable experience.” Led by Senior captain, Carter Mebane, the Davidson splashers are an enthusiastic bunch and “are working hard in practice.” However, the team has had only two weeks of in-the-water practice and the effects will show in their first few meets. Sophomore John Alexander should easily step into the shoes of Tommy French in the Backstroke. This will be a strong point of the team. Purk Purkerson is working hard and should give depth to this position. Sprinters Jack Hollenbeck, Dan Campbell, and Mebane should do well in their respective events, but the positions in the 50 and 100 Free are lacking in depth. Mebane is a transplanted distance swimmer and can be counted on for an all-out performance each meet. The leading distance man on the team, Jim Grey, did well his freshman year and should carry the burden in the 500 and the 200 Free.

First Meet

Although the Breaststroke is considered one of the weak links of the team, Bud Fry is developing fast and could be one of the bright spots on the team. Sophomore Wes Truscott has looked good in practice and with experience should give the ’Catfish a good 1-2 punch in this event. Newcomers Randy Hughes and Smith McKeithan have both looked good in practice and will probably be the 'Cat swimmers in the Individual Medley. Perhaps the weakest point of the team is in the 200 Butterfly. Actually, there are no butterfly men on the team, but if Hollenbeck and Truscott swim the event, they may surprise several opponents. Diving for the Mermen will be veteran Dick Fromm, Chip Derrick, and sophomore Bill Jacobs. These boys have been working hard and could be a consistent point-getter for the 'Cats. The 1962-63 version of the ‘Catfish will definitely lack in depth. However, the sophomores on the team should gain much experience and with the addition of freshmen Jim Stokes, George Gibbons, Mark Waldon, Joe Hensley, and Craig Kitchins, next year’s squad could be a contender for the Southern Conference title.

Mermen Dunk At Duke

BY CHARLIE SHAPPARD
Sports Staff Writer

The Wildcat mermen travel to Durham today to open their 1962-63 season against a strong Duke squad. With a good group of sophomores, the Blue Devils should prove to be one of the toughest teams the 'Catfish will face this season. Tomorrow, the ‘Cats play host to East Carolina, who are known for their strong swimming teams. “We know that we're going to have a rough season, especially before Christmas,” stated Dwight Shoe, the Davidson mentor. “This year, we're young and this factor will probably show, but we should gain valuable experience.” Led by Senior captain, Carter Mebane, the Davidson splashers are an enthusiastic bunch and “are working hard in practice.” However, the team has had only two weeks of in-the-water practice and the effects will show in their first few meets. Sophomore John Alexander should easily step into the shoes of Tommy French in the Backstroke. This will be a strong point of the team. Purk Purkerson is working hard and should give depth to this position. Sprinters Jack Hollenbeck, Dan Campbell, and Mebane should do well in their respective events, but the positions in the 50 and 100 Free are lacking in depth. Mebane is a transplanted distance swimmer and can be counted on for an all-out performance each meet. The leading distance man on the team, Jim Grey, did well his freshman year and should carry the burden in the 500 and the 200 Free.

Other games to be played during the Christmas vacation are Cincinnati there on Dec. 22, New Hampshire here on Dec. 28, Princeton in Charlotte on Dec. 29, and William and Mary here on Jan. 2. Driesell said of Princeton, “They're good. Bradley (a 6-5", 210 lb. forward) is probably the best sophomore in the country.” The Cincinnati game is of real interest since it marks the first time that a Davidson squad has played the top-ranked team in the nation in any sport. The ‘Cats will face VMI sporting a 2-1 record. Last Friday night the Davidson five opened their season by demolishing an outclassed Erskine team, 91-51. The following Tuesday the Wildcats traveled to Durham, seeking to avenge their loss last Tuesday to the second-ranked Demon Deacons. Art Heyman’s 36 point effort was chiefly responsible for the Blue Devils' margin. The 6-5” All-American also grabbed a number of rebounds off of both boards and excelled on defense. Perhaps the determining factor in the contest was the ‘Cats loss of top sophs Fred Hetzel and Don Davidson after each had played little more than half of the game. Nevertheless, 6-8" Hetzel was high man for the ‘Cats with 22 points. Several times during the tilt Duke fans rose in a standing ovation as Hetzel left the game, and at the end of the contest in praise of the impressive Wildcat team. Thursday night Davidson downed a stubborn Wofford team 77-58. Driesell summed up the effort by saying, “The kids were tired. They had to play three ball games in five nights.” An unfortunate incident in the game was the injury of Barry Teague. He fell over the back of a Wofford defender on a driving lay-up and landed on his head, suffering a mild concussion. Teague was not seriously injured, however, and should return to the line-up Saturday night, although it is uncertain whether he will play.

Beat VMI On Court...

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf", “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)

Cats, DECK THE HALLS

When you think of Christmas gifts you naturally think of Marlboro cigarettes, leading seller in flip-top box in all fifty states—and if we annex Wales, in all fifty-one—and if we annex Lapland—in all fifty-two. This talk about annexing Wales and Lapland is, incidentally, not just idle speculation. Great Britain wants to trade Wales to the United States for a desert. Great Britain needs a desert desperately on account of the tourist trade. Tourists are always coming up to the Prime Minister or the Lord Privy Seal or like that and saying, “I’m not knocking your country, mind you. It’s very quaint and picturesque, etc. what with Buckingham Palace and Bovril and Scotland Yard, etc., but where’s your desert?” (Before I forget, let me point out that Scotland Yard, Britain’s plain-clothes police branch, was named after Wally Scotland and Fred Yard who invented plain clothes. The American plain-clothes force is called the FBI after Frank B. Incheliff, who invented fingerprints. Before Mr. Incheliff’s invention, everybody's fingers were absolutely glassy smooth. This, as you may imagine, played hob with the identification of newborn babies in hospitals. From 1791 until 1904 no American parent ever brought home the right baby from the hospital. This later became known as the Black Tom Explosion.)

But I digress. England, I was saying, wants to trade Wales for a desert. Sweden wants to trade Lapland for Frank B. Inchcliff. The reason is that Swedes to this day still don’t have fingerprints. As a result, identification of babies in Swedish hospitals is so haphazard that Swedes flatly refuse to bring their babies home. There are, at present, nearly a half-billion unclaimed babies in Swedish hospitals—some of them well over eighty years old.

But I digress. We were speaking of Christmas gifts which naturally put us in mind of Marlboro cigarettes. What could be more welcome at Christmas time than Marlboro’s flavor, Marlboro’s soft pack, Marlboro’s flip-top box? What indeed would be more welcome at any time of year—winter or summer, rain or shine, night or day? Any time, any season, when you light a Marlboro you can always be certain that you will get the same mild, flavorful, completely comfortable smoke.

There are, of course, other things you can give for Christmas besides Marlboro cigarettes. If, for example, you are looking for something to give a music lover, let me call to your attention a revolutionary new development in phonographs—the Low-fi phonograph. The Low-fi, product of years of patient research, has so little fidelity to the record you put on it that if, for instance, you put “Stardust” on the turntable, “Melancholy Baby” will come out. This is an especially welcome gift for people who have grown tired of “Stardust”.

Merry Christmas to all and to all a good night.

© 1962 Max Shulman

The makers of Marlboro cigarettes, who take pleasure in bringing you this column throughout the school year, wish to join old Max in extending greetings of the Season.