Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 18, 1962
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

‘To Educate All Youth ...’

Neither the Charter of Davidson College nor the By-Laws of the Trustees have ever stipulated that race, nationality, creed or class should be a condition for admission to the student body of the institution. Indeed the first charter of the Trustees of Davidson College expressed the earnest desire “to educate youth of all classes without any regard to the distinction of religious denominations, and thereby promote the more general diffusion of knowledge and virtue.” The present Trustees of the College would reaffirm the spirit of that first charter, and in so doing would advise the Faculty to consider carefully all applications received from prospective students, and to approve for admission those whom they consider properly qualified upon the basis of such general considerations as character, intellectual and general ability, scholastic interest, loyalty to the ideals of the college, and promise of future usefulness.

“The vote was not close at all. The meeting concluded in fine spirits. I'm very happy about the whole thing.” These were the hurried words from President of the Board Richards. The twinkle in his eye at 4:30 p.m. yesterday contrasted heavily with his tenuous pessimism four hours earlier. To be the end of a long-waged, intense battle on the part of THE DAVIDSONIAN, the Trustee’s decision to abolish segregation by race came simply and undramatically. Present juniors and seniors remember the Integration Special of spring 1960 and Henry Shue’s petition. We express our hearty thanks to the Trustees for what we consider their wise and Christian decision. The new policy of the college is a re-affirmation of the ideal and the spirit of the college’s original Charter of 1837. It answers adequately the resolution of the 1954 Southern Presbyterian General Assembly. It reflects the ancient liberalism of a forgotten past, that of the oldest Old South, the South that prior to 1840 sponsored the first abolitionist societies in the country. And it echoes the spirit of Thomas Jefferson’s early diatribes against the mounting slave trade.

We express our gratitude to the (A Statement of Policy, The Trustees of Davidson College, May 17, 1962) faculty for providing the recommendation from which the Trustee’s action evolved. And we thank students and alumni who took time out from personally more lucrative enterprises to demand that the issue not be ignored. And we thank those who opposed the policy revision for the honest spirit in which they spoke and acted. (President Richards said there was a great deal of “eloquence” and “oratory.” “Every conceivable viewpoint was expressed at length.”)

If there is anything to be said now about the future, it could be couched in the words of Dr. Frank W. Price who said earlier this spring, “I look forward to the day when Davidson will offer scholarships to the most promising graduates of Negro high schools in this country and in Africa.” With Dr. Price, we see in the future a Davidson whose alumni will include men serving the needs of the whole South and the nation in many different professional capacities. And we see a Davidson whose student body will include the challenging diversity of many different cultural and economic backgrounds. Indeed, we look to a future when Davidson will be one of the best colleges in the country for 1,000 men.

A Worthy Suggestion

The pages of this paper have been used many times to underline poor student attendance at lectures and presentations in the fine arts. In fact, the almost complete lack of interest here would tend to support the oft-banded prejudice that the South is just beginning to discover (or rediscover) culture.

For this reason we welcome the recent suggestion made by Dr. MacCormac in the realm of required vespers and chapel. Under his plan certain on-campus presentations, such as lectures or musical programs, could be attended in substitution for required ones. A pledged statement or attendance card could then be turned in to attest to this fact. We would take the idea one step further and ask that, as in former years, attendance at off-campus vespers also be counted in the required number.

The advantages to such a plan are fairly obvious. On the one hand, it would allow the student more selectivity in those programs which he feels would widen his horizons most and provide the best entertainment. Certainly, with two out of three chapels being of a secular nature anyway, some of the programs in Hodson Hall surpassed the Chambers programs in intellectual content and just plain enjoyment. The wider range of selections would in turn raise the quality of the required programs and would give added support to such things as the Artist Series which are missed because of a “lack of time.” The prospect of a sparse audience will, we hope, spur planners to seek more of the better speakers and vary the now-required assemblies to a greater degree.

The only possible objection we can see to such a plan, except the added bureaucratic paperwork, would be that some students would “fudge.” We think that this could be put in proper perspective if it is realized that this is just another word for “cheating.” The administration has too often unconsciously encouraged this misunderstanding by not accepting pledged statements concerning behavior or attendance when records show differently. The honor system should be recognized as all-encompassing or not at all. We hope such extraneous and unrelated considerations will not cloud the issue. We believe that this plan deserves some real deliberation based on its own merits.

B.H.

David Dillard
BUSINESS MANAGER

Ed Willer
Associate Editors
Bill Hagen
News Editor
Charles Dibble
Mac Plaxico
Photographers
Joe McCutchen
Assistant Editor
Bill Ruth
Tom Anderson
Managing Editors
David Stitt
Cartoonists
Dan Adams
Jeff Wampler
Joe Howell
Sports Editor
Bill Pridgen
Walter MacDonald
Assignments Editor
Bob Bethel
Feature Editor

Congolese Students (Continued From Page One)

the new scholarships can be included in the existing program. Dr. Richards said that the Trustees accepted the bequest with a feeling of joy and gratitude. “We appreciate the expression of loyalty of an old alumnus and are particularly happy the gift is to provide scholarships.” Most of the Trustees were visibly excited by the vote for integration and by the announcement of the bequest. None cared to comment on the exact count of the vote for desegregation or their feelings one way or another about it. Rev. Albert McClure did give the general reaction of the Trustees about the new scholarship fund when he said, “I feel quite excited and grateful about the whole thing. I don’t want to sound pious, but I feel there must have been a guiding hand in the fact that a man who said he would never contribute to the Alumni Fund was responsible for the largest gift yet.”

Pruitt Previews (Continued From Page One)

with some of the same people. However, her work has a lyric quality and a use of beauty (with no overtones of “pretty” to the word) which may have seemed to have been missing in Sumgardner. These paintings may serve as a better entrance to an exciting world of art that is opening around us, I hope not for reasons extraneous to their worlds as works of art. The appreciation of these works, as with all phases of art, is not purely a matter of personal likes and dislikes (though this will determine what a person chooses to endorse) but is more a matter of discovering what the artist is working with and what he is saying. Therefore, a hasty judgment based on a personal reaction will often close the door to an entire universe.

Assistant Chaplain Calls For A More Diverse Davidson
BY VAL FRAKES
Interim Assistant to the Chaplain

One could say many flattering things about Davidson and its students. It attracts bright and gifted applicants. Its projected humanities course is a bold attempt to restore unity to the modern and fragmented mind. While it is not comparable to Dartmouth and Amherst, it has the ambition to be so. What follows is not eulogy, however, because THE DAVIDSONIAN asked me to record critical impressions.

Homogeneity is one of Davidson’s greatest liabilities. As Jeff Wampler noted in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN, the vast majority of students here are Southern, Anglo-Saxon white, Protestant, and middle to upper class—the latter meaning that they are most likely economically and politically conservative and unacquainted with the arts, if not Philistine. Robert Rankin of the Danforth Foundation joked that “Davidson students even look alike” when he visited the campus for the first time last fall.

Homogeneity decreases the rough and tumble of an academic community. For it is the sometimes startling encounter with men of different backgrounds that jars one to examine his own values, assumptions, and loyalties—to ask the questions which make history, philosophy, and literature of great concern. One is never so apt to ask why he is a Christian, and indeed whether he wishes to remain one, as he is when he confronts the hard-headed agnostic or the soft-hearted humanist. At Davidson more than the secular university the encounter with different ideas must occur through the medium of books. While the value of books is not to be discounted, neither is the meeting of students from different milieus in the dormitory as well as the classroom.

Few bull sessions among students seem to range beyond the exchange of sexual fantasies. But then, how can two sons ofthe bourgeoisie discuss a concert? And why should they engage in lengthy conversation about economics or politics? Having assured one another that capitalism made America great and having lamented together that welfare programs are killing individual initiative, they have little more to say to each other. Suggestions? Integration becomes all the more attractive. Although Negroes have inhabited the same communities with whites, their cultural experiences have been extremely different. Negroes would bring much-needed diverse perspectives to the campus. Davidson would do well to spend great effort in attracting more students from the North and West. At present, Davidson is all but unknown west of the Mississippi. Even the faculty does not represent the diversity that it might. So many from Davidson's past broods have returned to the roost after only short periods of scratching elsewhere. The faculty has no Jew, no Roman Catholic, no atheist, no Buddhist, and as far as I know, no permanent member who is foreign-born. Would not the presence of a few non-evangelical Christians—there are many such creatures who are gifted and conscientious scholars—increase the intellectual ferment of the campus? Because I had two articulate and informed Roman Catholic laymen as professors in my sophomore year, I was led to wrestle seriously with the claims of the Roman church—even to consider instruction for membership. Such an occasion for examining church loyalty seldom presents itself to a student at Davidson.

(A digressive word about the church-related college: For years at Davidson, discussion about the proper nature of a church-related college has concluded that the latter should have an all evangelical-Christian faculty. Hence the faculty oath. This conclusion promotes homogeneity and robs the campus of the scholastic ability and broadening influence that a non-evangelical-Christian might bring. It seems to me that a church-related school may properly insist that the Gospel be proclaimed and taught with vitality and scholarship within its walls. However, the college, like the state and the church, most serves and glorifies God by fulfilling the peculiar function which God assigned it as an institution in Creation. Neither the state, nor the church, nor the college really glorifies God by assuming the peculiar functions of other institutions. The college’s peculiar task is to be a seat of learning and a market-place of ideas. If a few non-Christians can make a college a better market-place of ideas, then they ought to be hired—in order that the college may glorify God to the fullest extent. Presumably, a church-related school seeks to do the latter.)

Many Davidson students, along with students elsewhere, never seem excited by knowledge, or indeed by anything. Some of the “un-excited” study more frequently than they admit, but they do so—not that they may commit themselves to, or do something about, whatever truth they discover—but that they may become passively knowledgeable, or that they may receive a parchment, or that they may gain admittance to graduate school. Several seniors with whom I have talked blame the fraternities for cajoling students into the “cool” (I don’t get excited about truth, drama, music, God or anything else) approach. Better to allow enthusiasm to carry one on even to folly and mistake than always to stand detached, looking sophisticated! The cool attitude robs the individual of growth and stultifies the air for others. There are many students running loose at Davidson who seem not to have examined the political and social convictions they have brought from home: labor unions are evil and “socialistic,” Negroes are inferior, the great battle of the twentieth century is to save the status from those men in Washington, etc. The problem is not that students remain conservative, but that convictions are often unexamined, the use of terms—such as socialism—fuzzy, the approach emotional rather than analytical. Since part of the information for making intelligent decisions about the gamut of socio-political questions derives from the social sciences, many students may never submit their convictions to critical evaluation. Davidson offers few courses in the social sciences—one in anthropology—and requires none of what it does offer.

Letters To The Editor

Goodman

Dear Editor:

As I look through this year’s edition of Quips and Cranks, I definitely feel that Rob Abernethy and his staff deserve commendation for publishing one of the better annuals that have been produced at Davidson for the past several years. However, this year’s Quips and Cranks, as last year's, omitted from its activities section one of the more active campus organizations, the Wildcat Pep Band. It seems that the band’s efforts toward promoting “school spirit” at all home football games and at the road games at Furman and Richmond last season merit some sort of recognition in the yearbook. I hope that next year’s Quips and Cranks staff will not overlook certain “young” campus groups, such as the Band, which are at least as active as some of the “original” organizations.

John Goodman

Stathatos

Dear Editor:

On behalf of the international students, I want to express our deep appreciation to the Richardson Foundation, Faculty, Fraternities, Student Body, THE DAVIDSONIAN, and Davidson community for offering us the opportunity of studying at Davidson College and for making our stay here enjoyable and profitable. Thank you very much. “See you around.”

Costas Stathatos

P. F. Collier, Inc.

Exchange Student Defends Belgian Activities In Congo

BY JEAN-PAUL DEFAUW
Richardson Scholar

In 1959, as the result of a billion-dollar ten-year plan, the Congo possessed the most advanced economic infrastructure of black Africa. Almost half of the ten-year plan budget had been earmarked for the development and modernization of the transportation system. Besides, the ten-year plan gave new impetus to the exploration of sources of energy and to agricultural development. It expanded public utilities, social progress, and scientific research. In the latter field, the work of the “Institut de Recherche Scientifique en Afrique Centrale,” generally known as IRSAC, an institute established in 1947 to coordinate, promote and prosecute scientific work, both physical and social, has been highly praised by George Kimble in his book, “Tropical Africa.”

These achievements in the field of mining, manufacturing, power sources, agriculture, commerce, economic infrastructure, public and social welfare, and scientific research, demanded money. From 1949 to 1958, investments in the Congo amounted to 2.81 billion dollars of which 1.4 billion were public and 1.66 were private investment. More money is needed to continue the work. In order to obtain a 5% growth per year of the Congolese economy during the next five years, an average annual investment of 400 million dollars is needed, roughly half of which is to be supplied by re-investments. But the economic development of a country needs more than just money. Capital needs labor, and the development of a country needs people. Our economic achievements in the Congo are the products of men. George Kimble states that from the time the Belgian Government took over the responsibility for the Congo, it was fortunate in the caliber of the men guiding its development. Such men are still needed in the Congo, as are the annual 400-million-dollar investments, not to organize, under the label of technical assistance, economic domination, but to do the job as long as the Congolese cannot do it themselves. In that respect, I want to stress that the internationalization of the development of the Congo was already the desire of the Belgian Government long before independence. During the Economic Round Table Conference in Brussels, in April 1960, the Belgian Minister of Economic Affairs of the Congo warned the Congolese that in appealing to foreign economists for the setting-up of a Planning Bureau, the Congolese Government should not limit its appeal to Belgian economists, but should seek economists of other nationalities in order to make certain that the proposed policy would not be inspired by Belgian interests. Men are needed and capital is needed and both demand guarantees based on international law. Once peace is restored in the Congo, those elements: men, capital and guarantees will not fail, and our work will be taken up again by Congolese and foreigners alike. It is my deep conviction that the countries which, as a result of the wealth of their soil, their geographic situation or more advanced technology, have reached a higher degree of development, have a real duty to the less developed countries. In the world of today, more than ever before in the history of humanity, all countries and all races are inter-dependent and the progress of one of them should not mean a decline elsewhere, but, on the contrary, should benefit the others. Over and above political differences, a spirit of solidarity should guide our action.

Summer Opportunity

This year Collier’s Vacation Earnings Program offers College Students more prizes and awards than ever before in the history of any Company. Students can earn in excess of $150.00 per week while working for the prizes listed below:

A Three Week Tiger Hunt in India
Fifteen $1,000.00 Cash Scholarships
Six All-Expense-Paid Vacations in London
An Unlimited Number of $500.00 Scholarships

Students accepted for Summer work will have an opportunity to work in one of the offices listed below:

P. F. Collier, Inc.
Charlotte, N. C.
Greensboro, N. C.
Columbia, S. C.
Raleigh, N. C.

Qualified previous Employees would have the opportunity for management positions. All who would be interested would need only to fill in the next few lines and send this to:

Mr. George Minson, District Manager
Room 817
201 S. Tryon Bldg.
Charlotte 2, N. C.

NAME
SCHOOL ADDRESS
HOME ADDRESS
DATE AVAILABLE FOR INTERVIEW
PREFERRED TIME FOR INTERVIEW
DATE YOU COULD BEGIN
OFFICE YOU WOULD PREFER TO WORK