The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1962
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A Swiss, The South, And Culture

Culture is an activity of thought, and receptiveness to beauty and humane feeling. Scraps of information have nothing to do
with it. A merely well-informed man is the most useless bore on God's earth. What we should aim at producing
is men who possess both culture and expert knowledge in some special direction. Their expert knowledge will give them the
ground to start from, and their culture will lead them as deep as philosophy and as high as art. The
valuable intellectual development is self-development, and that takes place mostly between the ages of sixteen and thirty. (Alfred North Whitehead
in The Aims of Education 1916)

Rudy Glarner, Rotary International scholar from Switzerland, said what few native Americans could have said so well as he gave
the farewell address for fourteen 1961-62 foreign students. He was listened to attentively and even applauded vigorously. Armed with a
very British accent and a minimum of funny-sounding Gallicisms, Glarner praised U.S. industrial achievements, said there was still a great
future for agriculture, and spoke of our “highest” standard of living based on wealth and power... and untilled land. He
expressed surprise at the weighty influence of the Church, its continued popular importance as a cloak lending respectability to many
aspects of American life. And he said that while in this country he had missed “culture” very much, “the opera,
the concerts, the ballet... you know.”

Glarner’s speech might have brought to mind the diverse faces, accents, and reactions of many foreign students at Davidson in
the last few years. It is ironically consistent that Glarner, son of a member of the Swiss Parliament, should seem
to moderate the wide spectrum of foreign reaction to this country and this college. His criticisms were not as harsh
as some have been, yet they seemed much more honest and supportable. We were surprised that in a speech intentionally
general and objective a European chose to observe the lack of “culture” in this country, or at least in this
section of the country.

In all fairness to this region we must object that in most southern cities at least there is no lack
of culture but rather a pervading lack of interest (by a majority) in what usually goes under the banner of
“culture.” This lack of interest can be traced historically for two and a half centuries—even in Charleston. More recently it
can be traced immediately to nouveau riche homes where money is not backed by wisdom, taste or sensitivity. It can
also be traced to the South’s lack of a cultural heritage, a sense of rebellion against the Old Order or
history, as one finds it in the intellectual history of New England. And any lack of interest in culture must
inevitably rest in educational resources which have been comparatively scarce and inferior. As William Cash concluded, there is also a
terrific current of anti-intellectualism in the southern mind. There is a historical and tragic refusal to admit the power of
ideas or to admit new ideas for consideration.

But a southern revival is upon us and now even Charlotte, long a bastion of Puritanism, has several passable drama
groups, a middling-to-fair symphony orchestra, an artists’ league, its own opera company, and several good choral organizations. And the state
of North Carolina now supports its own symphony. Education is coming along—southern education is now only about twenty years behind
New England. Yet it was probably our very wasteland of culture, culture in the most effete sense, that in this
century produced artists like Thomas Wolfe and William Faulkner. These were artists undisciplined by a cultural heritage who fell into
an anarchistic individualism—the form in their work is a rebellion against form, a European influence. But somehow they felt called
to agonize over their native region and to draw meaning from the agony. They were fascinated by the arid desert
of the South and its sense of defeat. Faulkner found in the sordidness of Mississippi the courage to say at
Stockholm, before all Europe, “human striving will go on in the face of any obstacle; the flame will not be
extinguished.”

We apologize for our lack of culture here in the South. We cannot speak for the rest of the country.
We know somehow that we as individuals and Davidson College are irrevocably a part of the tragic night and the
cultural re-awakening of our southern province.

A New Examination

A closed circle... This, in many respects, would accurately describe the way by which most courses are changed at Davidson.
A professor teaching a basic course year after year makes only those improvements which he, as one who is intimately
involved, can see are needed. Of course many helpful suggestions are received through channels within the teaching profession. But it
is usually a long journey from the generalized statement to the particular case; and few are the ideas that can
make it. Colleagues are certainly a helpful factor, but how can one know another’s teaching method if he has never
visited the classroom? It is essentially a problem of relevance.

A valuable source of suggestion for effective change is in most cases not being used — the students. Informal chats
after class or vespers seldom get down to handling what in the student’s mind, may be a fundamental problem in
a course. The rare occasion where a professor gets a glimmer of mass discontent is probably only when a temper
is lost. And gentlemen don’t lose their tempers.

We would like to suggest a form of evaluation that would be incorporated with the exam. Both the Psychology Department
and the Music Department now distribute, with the final exam, sheets of questions for students concerning the nature of the
course and the effectiveness with which it was presented. These are written separate from the exam and considered by the
professor after grades are turned in. Such a series of questions would cover the student's conception of the purpose of
the course, whether he felt it reached his reasonable expectations, comments on the material used, and his opinions of the
student-teacher relationship that existed. Although there would have to be a certain amount of critical weighing of the results, we
think the constructive changes suggested would, without a doubt, make such a series worthwhile. For this reason we hope each
department will consider using such a form. Many times there are two sides to every question — even if they
are both subjective.

David Dillard
Ed Willer

The Big Si . By Howell Carrell: NSA Merits Further Consideration

BY DANNY CARRELL
Student Body President

Last weekend I had the opportunity to attend the Carolinas-Virginia Regional Meeting of the National Student Association. The conference was
held at Belmont Abbey and was well attended by representatives from schools such as Sweet Briar, Randolph-Macon, Carolina, Duke, and
U. Va. I am pleased to report that as a result of the conference, I am very enthusiastic over the
NSA; however, I am going to reserve final judgment of it until after I attend the National Student Congress in
August.

In the last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Al Edgar painted a somewhat distorted picture of the NSA. I feel I
should immediately set the record straight by providing a more open-minded view of the organization. It is true that the
NSA, because of some of its political stands, has projected itself, in the minds of some conservatives, as an organization
which is so far to the left that it should be avoided.

OPEN FORUM

Many of the NSA leaders realized that one of the key challenges facing the organization today is to erase its
political and liberal label and to project an image of an open forum of American students. In other words, the
questions that NSA must answer this summer are: Should NSA concentrate on political education only or should it also take
political stands? If it should take political stands, which ones should it take?

Mr. Edgar seems to be against the NSA for two primary reasons: First, it is too liberal; secondly, it is
undemocratic. Its liberalism cannot be denied; however, I ask whether the fact that it is liberal makes it bad. Mr.
Edgar's argument about undemocratic control has no validity whatsoever. He is critical of the National Executive Committee which is composed
of regional officers elected by delegates to the regional conferences. As elected representatives, they have the right to make certain
resolutions; however, they are primarily concerned with carrying out the Basic Policy Declarations, both political and non-political, all of which
have been passed on the floor of the Congress. Resolutions of the Committee itself are subject to repeal by the
Congress.

I wish to point out that there is a definite conservative trend in the NSA. Tim Zagat, Vice-President of NSA
and former Vice-President of the Student Body at Harvard, attended the Belmont Regional; and I can assure Mr. Edgar that
Tim’s political views do not “lean decidedly to the left.” Furthermore, conservative spokesman William F. Buckley, Jr. attended the Congress
last summer as a guest of the Student Body President of Harvard College.

LIBERALS ORGANIZED

In the past, liberal policies have been passed, and liberal officers have been elected because the liberals have been better
organized, and the conservatives have had little or no organization. The conservatives have not been able to get together and
present their views. This is the reason for the liberalism of the NSA. I feel that if Davidson were to
join the NSA, we could help to change this situation. We could help to make the NSA a true forum
of American students, not just a forum of liberal students. I feel that Davidson could make a significant contribution to
the NSA, and I hope that we will give it serious consideration.

Lynchburg Man Cites Literature

EDITOR’S NOTE: Mr. Davis requested that his letter be published in “your readers’ forum.” With his letter he included “Race,
Heredity, and Civilization.” We cannot recommend either its misuse of the Bible or its pretentious insult to scientific method.

Dear Editor:

The following sources of information may interest your readers:

1. The book Race and Reason, A Yankee View, by Carleton Putnam, contains the famous “Putnam letters,” followed by answers
to 92 questions most often asked by Northerners. Acclaimed for its logic, common sense, and scientific validity, the book is
available through bookstores or direct from PublicAffairs Press, 419 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., Washington 3, D.C.; paperback edition $2.

2. The 48-page booklet “Race, Heredity and Civilization” by anthropologist Dr. Wesley C. George (recently retired from University of North
Carolina School of Medicine faculty) discusses racial traits, the lessons of history, race problems in big cities, miscegenation, and arguments
based on religious grounds.

Congregation-controlled church day schools have these advantages: (1) buildings already in existence; (2) contributions income tax deductible; (3) basic education
oriented to Christian principles; (4) inexpensive tuition costs. Lutherans have some 1400 church day schools; the Dutch Reformed around 800;
Episcopalians 500. For information, write to Association for Christian Schools, Box 35096, Houston 35, Texas, and to Church Schools Service,
Inc., 10119 Lafayette Avenue, Chicago, IL.

Fred M. Davis
Lynchburg, Va.

PEANLES

Nothing to offer to the Congress. I feel that Davidson and other conservative southern schools should not turn their backs
on the organization but should work with schools such as Harvard to prevent the NSA from going to the extreme
left. Mr. Edgar further states that NSA “counts every Davidson student as a supporter of its policies.” This statement is
too naive for comment. He is critical of the Davidson Student Council for joining the organization. I would like to
point out that the Student Council reserves the right to use its allotted funds in any way that it chooses.

One very important point that Mr. Edgar omits in his article is that NSA’s purpose is only one-third political. Mr.
Edgar lightly passes over its educational and service aspects. The NSA offers many ideas on how to improve student government.
It provides information on public speakers and conferences. Its European travel program is very extensive and offers tremendous savings. Also,
two important service projects are currently being worked out. One is a nation-wide student insurance program. Another is a system
of youth hostels set up at Howard Johnson Motels which would allow students rooms for only one dollar a night.

DECREASE PROVINCIALISM

On the whole, therefore, I feel that the NSA merits further consideration. If the Council votes next fall to stay
in the organization, I will see to it that the student body is kept fully informed on NSA activities. Furthermore,
work with the NSA will not be restricted to members of the Student Council. It is true that only about
400, or one-third of the colleges and universities of the United States belong to the NSA, but included in this
400 are most of the colleges recognized as leading academic institutions. The NSA gives Davidson an opportunity to decrease its
provincialism and to find out what is happening on other college campuses throughout the country. Since its founding in 1946,
it has been endorsed by Presidents Truman, Eisenhower, and Kennedy. Private foundations such as Ford, Carnegie, and Rockefeller annually contribute
$480,000 to NSA’s $500,000 budget. Obviously, many responsible people are firmly convinced of the value of the National Student Association.

THE CONSERVATIVE MIND

Atkins Attacks 'New Deal Ideas’ In ECA Program

BY CLAY ATKINS

Most Americans imagine that the entire world stands in awe of our way of doing things and that every nation
would mortgage its collective soul to duplicate our capacity for forging ahead. At one time this may have been true.
But the farther we move away from our constitutional tradition the less we are emulated. Our leaders must come to
realize that the underlying weakness of the American economy is the present quasi-socialistic system. Our government cannot forever promise more
money to more people for doing less work, or no work, and maintain the American standard of living and production.

Let us look at West Germany. Over a decade ago a report was framed for the Economic Co-operation Administration by
Walter Heller, Alvin Hansen, and Richard Musgrave (all are now on Kennedy's Economic Council). After surveying the facts of the
West German economy, the American ECA team presented a series of recommendations paralleling in many respects those outlined by Mr.
Kennedy as a means of stimulating full employment and economic growth in the U.S. The ECA proposals stressed the importance
of “easy money.” They told the Germans not to worry about inflation and advocated increased public expenditures. At the time
of the ECA proposals Germany had 1.3 million out of work and was only six years removed from the devastation
of the war. Yet the Germans had the vision and fortitude to reject the ECA program. Ludwig Erhard (Economics Minister)
cast out the New Deal ideas and proposed reliance on private initiative rather than government planning. He kept Germany’s interest
rates high and placed importance on curbing inflation by holding down wages and prices. The result, of course, has been
one of the most remarkable economic booms in the postwar world. Today Germany faces a labor shortage. Workers are actually
emigrating from Spain and Italy in search of jobs. It is curious that the ECA should try to pass off
a New Deal formula and that the Germans should turn out to be better “Americans” than those who come from
America to reshape the German economy. It is also curious that those men whom the Germans were wise enough to
ignore should now be formulating our U.S. economic policy.

Is the New Frontier’s economic outlook really new? Far from it. This system is so tired and discredited that civilizations
as old as Germany have already rejected it. The American free-enterprise system is working remarkably well — everywhere but where
it was born.

Southerners Deny Justice To Negroes

BY WALTER CLARK

The film, “Judgment at Nuremberg,” brought to mind startling similarities between the educated German's attitude toward the slaughter of Jews
under Hitler and our own attitude toward injustice to Negroes under Jim Crow. The suppression of Negro and Jew is
not parallel, but the attitude of the educated professional men of both countries seems strikingly similar.

The film indicated the Germans’ willful oversight of atrocious war crimes and their defense against world opinion following the discovery
of these inhuman acts. Many of their arguments on their behalf seem plausible. No doubt most Germans were human to
Jews in day-to-day contact. No doubt there was a widespread fear that the German nation would be irrevocably lost if
Hitler's war machine were not supported regardless of its abnormal aspects. No doubt they did not know exactly what was
being done to Jews in concentration camps. But one man’s confession of guilt shattered all their arguments. Their willingness to
overlook man’s inhumanity to man could not be justified.

But such an oversight is not unique to the Germans. We educated Southerners have also overlooked injustice to a minority.
The crimes are not as flagrant or as numerous; we are not under the pressures of a world war. But
when a white is sentenced lightly for the rape of a Negro, while Negroes are sometimes executed for a similar
crime against a white, we turn our backs. This is only one of the inequalities which allow those who know
no better to take advantage of a minority race. There are also economic and social injustices. In many towns, Negro
streets are left in ill repair, city services are irregular, and the law remains silent. We who are educated know
better, but we allow these inequalities to continue.

Now all of us are being judged by the courts and Congress. We are being forced to defend our position,
and defense is easy. We fear that state and individual rights will be swallowed up by a monolithic government. We
fear that equality will lead to intermarriage which will be genetically damaging. We personally have committed no crime to Negroes.
But this last defense is in reality a confession. We who are educated treat Negroes as human beings. I have
never seen a Davidson student act toward a Negro in such a way that would imply that the Negro was
subnormal mentally or less than human. We know that these charges would be psychologically damaging. Thus, our personal consideration toward
the individual shows that we think the Negro as human as we are, as capable of suffering and fear. But
the world only reads of the flagrant violations, the publicized inequalities which our law allows. We who know better must
side with the world; otherwise, we will be judged for our oversights. The fears of monolithic government and cultural deterioration
are no justification for allowing the less educated, the narrow-minded, the perverted of our own race to get by with
injustice to a minority. We must admit openly and publicly that our laws allow crime in political, economic, and social
affairs, and we must move to correct ourselves for the welfare of the South.

From The Randolph-Macon SUN DIAL

BY SALLIE HAY

Now that the warmth of late April is upon us, R-M is confronted with the members of a mystery cult
from the magic land of “Sea and Ski.” As they recline on the rooftop altars, they sometimes can be heard
chanting, “Welcome to the land of tans and freckles. We who are about to fry salute you.”

SNOW THE GODS

Every now and then the caretakers of the ceremonial oils baste the numerous rows of toasting bodies and with the
sound of the great bell in the tower every 60 minutes, the roasting students are turned over so that they
can be burned evenly on each side. The recent increase in cult membership can be in part attributed to May
Day. Next weekend these girls will waltz out in crisp spring dresses and crisp brown complexions to snow the visiting
collegiate gods who are so impressed by a bronze glow in a girl’s cheeks.

Associate Editors
Bill Hagen
Mae Plaxico

Managing Editors
Bill Ruth
David Stitt

Photographers
Jeff Wampler
Bill Pridgen

Cartoonists
Bob Bethel
Greg Govan

Sports Editor
Charles Dibble

Assignments Editor
Joe McCutchen

Feature Editor
Tom Anderson

Advertising Manager
Doug Ackerman

Circulation Manager
Dan Adams

Assistant Bus. Manager
Joe Howell

Charlie Smith
Malcolm Lane
Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
