PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN

Two years later, however, cries of pacifism were to rise. Meanwhile, Rusk was to carry on his leadership. Objections Often Lodged Against Mandatory ROTC through the Synod of North Carolina.

BY BILL HAGEN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The seed for the present ROTC program was innocuously planted in 1916 when it was announced that military science would be incorporated as a branch of the Junior Applied Mathematics course. This move was to allow the more intelligent Davidson men to be eligible to utilize their talents as leaders if they enlisted. Academically, the artillery training involved was hailed as “a valuable asset.” As the war approached, patriotism intensified on the campus. THE DAVIDSONIAN began putting American flags in the two top corners and running letters from those who were fighting with the French. Davidson initiated compulsory military training and the whole college plant was soon put under the supervision of a commanding officer. Students slept on newly set-up cots in the three dorms and were awakened each morning by bugle. Discipline was extended to the faculty as well as the students.

SATC INAUGURATED

In a “memorable ceremony,” the Student Army Training Corps was inaugurated in October 1918. Messages were read from President Woodrow Wilson and the Secretary of War. Wilson wrote, “the step you have taken is a most significant one.” An editorial in the same issue lamented the fact that grace was no longer being said before mess. It questioned, “Shall we Davidson students neglect this matter while students in the regular army do not?” By November of the same year, the front page was dominated by SATC activities. A bayonet course had been completed, featuring dummies, barbed wire, and a series of trenches to charge over. As an added incentive, the last one contained water. Most important in this particular issue, though, was the announcement that the student body had raised $7,179.50 for the Red Cross’s United War Work Campaign, the highest amount for all colleges, per capita, in the United States.

DISCIPLINE GRIPES

An editorial bemoaned the uncertainty of the fate of SATC, stating that if it were discontinued the “college will stare ruin in the face” since the added financial burden would force the majority of the student body to quit school. It exhorted the students not to gripe about the discipline which apparently went so far as to confine a man to campus for as long as fifteen days. Early 1919 saw the replacement of SATC by ROTC. The news article on it mentions the disappointment that was sure to follow from those who were looking for its abolishment or for a crip course. “The Lame, The Halt, The Blind, Must Make Up Drills” was the headline of a news story later the same year. Extra drills were initiated as often as they were needed for students who missed regular drill.

In April 1928, newspaper coverage of military affairs surpassed the former wartime record in a special “Warfare Extra.” A front-page map showed the “terrible encounter between the Reds and the Blues.” News stories told how the Blues gained ground but were “Fearfully shot to pieces, due to the incompetency of the officers and their own rashness.” “Major-General Tufts” won particular recognition for facing a whole battalion of the Blue infantry with only six men left. All escaped unscathed after being encircled.

The Davidsonian, 1917.

The "30s" was apparently a time when discontent with ROTC became more evident. The subject received more editorial treatment than at any time in the past.

OPTIONAL ROTC?

The editor saw fit to reply to the implication by local papers that “Davidson College has been captured by the War Dept.” in 1930. The year 1932 saw the Trustees adopting a positive report made by the Committee on ROTC liberalizing only the number exempted to those with previous training, conscientious objectors, and pre-meds with crowded schedules. A 1933 editorial commented on the registration turmoil that resulted when a Charlotte newspaper stated in a headline that ROTC was being made optional. The real story was that the Southern Presbyterian Church recommended to the Trustees to make the program optional. The editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN criticized outsiders who “don’t understand military science.”

‘GHASTLY IRONY’

A short time later, three (R. M. Cann and Jack and W. F. Koontz) reacted to the editorial, questioning the assertion that only “outsiders” were against ROTC. “There is a ghastly irony in this Davidson scene. At 10:15 a.m. we are compelled to worship the God of Love and Prince of Peace. At 3:05 p.m. we are compelled, with rifles on our shoulders, to study the art of mass-murder.” The week after that, the vice-president of Cannon Mills Co. stated that those who do not appreciate ROTC “would possibly do well to have the experience as they will most likely be the first to need it...” All this controversy apparently had some effect for in February of 1934 the Trustees abolished compulsory military training. The Charlotte Observer, Greensboro News, and THE DAVIDSONIAN all hailed this move editorially. The school paper stated confidently, though, that it would have little effect on the number taking ROTC next year. As it turned out, 38 out of 200 entering freshmen did not sign up for it.

ROTC was re-emphasized as World War II approached, culminating with a special ROTC Issue of the paper in 1941.

RIFLES BIT TOO TALL

In November of the same year (1941), the paper recorded the receipt of real rifles, of Russian design, for training. They were conceded to be “a bit too tall for the shortest men.” During the war, approximately 200 students were enrolled in a reserve unit of the Air Corps here while awaiting orders. Immediately after the war, the pro-con argument on compulsory military training was renewed. The last important historical event in the colorful epic of the ROTC Department was the inauguration of the first Military Ball by Scabbard and Blade in 1950. Hopes were high that this would mean that Davidson had now reached the four-dance weekend stage. The liberalization of the number of hours required in both required and advanced R.O.T.C. took effect in 1960. A special attempt was made, in this move, to acquaint advanced students with more academic subjects.

Magazine Battles Apathy, Taboo

An article in the Greensboro News pointed out the incongruity of a church-related school’s sponsoring ROTC. Lack of interest was the peak of the editors of The Davidson College Magazine (as it was called in 1916) just as it does the contemporary one. In fact, the paper in that year expressed, in a worried editorial, the fear that the magazine would disappear. The suggested remedy was to put the responsibility in the hands of the Junior Class. Besides giving the juniors a medium of expressing their individuality, it was felt that this utilizing of their dormant talents would be good training for the increased responsibilities that would come to them as seniors. An April 1916 editorial hailed a move to revise the magazine constitution adopted in Eumanean Society and at that time being voted on by Philanthropic. The revision would reduce the number of associate editors from 12 to four. Instead of doing all the literary work themselves as before, the new staff would have complete control of the magazine's policy and would oversee the literary work.

The November 1925 issue of The Davidson College Magazine published a story, “Dim Morning” by Adrian Provost, which was to have important consequences. It was a rather mediocre treatment of how a self-conscious young man is thwarted in his love of a girl at a house party. The story would make little impression on modern readers. However, in the next DAVIDSONIAN, a reviewer posed the ultimate question about any creative work when he asked, “Is it the kind of article I would send my mother to read?” He further wondered if it reflected the typical views held by young people “much less

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Order your subscription now so that you may receive all next year’s DAVIDSONIANs beginning with the first issue next September. Don’t miss important campus news. Only $3.00.The students at Davidson College, where all except eight men claim to be Christians, faced a crisis in January when the student body overwhelmingly elected Tom Barr, the real author of “Dim Morning,” as the new editor of the magazine. The faculty apparently saw this as a high water-mark of Davidson literary effort. In 1930, opinion was being expressed in favor of having a humorous magazine. It reached a point where the student body voted to create a new magazine with two issues consisting of all-humor and two all-literary ones. An editor for each division was selected.

75TH ANNIVERSARY

Later, in 1931, Ye Yow! was created. By a student body vote, it was to be published three times a year and contain nothing but humor. This magazine lasted until 1936 when the Executive Committee forced its cessation because of improper opinions and stories in the first two issues of the '35-'36 school year. By a special student petition, it was allowed to come out two more times with the stipulation that it be censored by the English Department. Scripts ‘n’ Pranks was born the next year with the aim of presenting both humor and serious content.

Council Develops Slowly

The Student Council was organized in 1910, but the spirit of student government goes back to the very beginning of Davidson. Davidson students seem to have always believed in the right to govern their own affairs. The history of student government before 1910 was that of a government by the classes. All disciplinary action was taken by the class to which the delinquent belonged. This was done because hazing was so bad before the turn of the century. Even after Archibald Currie was elected as the first president of the student body in 1896, students stuck rather closely to the class system.

But in 1910, hazing became so bad that students decided to adopt a system that would maintain order in all areas of campus life. The first Student Council was organized by C. R. Wilcox in 1910; and as student body president in 1911, he made it work and led it to an important position on the campus. The Student Council has been attacked many times over the years, but it managed to grow in power until part of its duties were given to the newly created Honor Court. With the creation of the Honor Court, the Student Council entered an era of soul-searching for its role in the life of the campus.

Bob Walker, in a letter to the editor in the Feb. 8, 1952 DAVIDSONIAN, hit hard at what he called laziness on the part of student government members. At the time Walker wrote, candidates for office did not state their platforms. “If the student body officers were elected on definite timely issues... our student government system would be intensively and increasingly productive...” Walker also suggested that student leaders conduct polls on issues of vital interest and present them to the faculty. The faculty would then have to make a statement giving reasons for their decisions on these vital issues.

THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 1962

Policies For Athletics Follow After Losing Teams

BY DAVID PEARSALL
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Davidson athletics looked promising in the fall of 1915. THE DAVIDSONIAN claimed that Davidson had entered “a new era in athletics,” that Davidson’s coaching could “not be surpassed in the South,” and that the “old-time Davidson pep” was reviving. The same year, the Alumni Athletic Association began asking for donations from the alumni to increase coaches’ salaries. Aid to athletics was then out of the question. But the athletic revival passed, and Davidson found herself in last place after the football season of 1927. An editorial suggested two alternatives: Davidson had to either stop playing the larger schools or somehow attract outstanding athletes. The first was too disgraceful and the second proved impossible without athletic subsidies, which would be stooping too low. So Davidson continued along the same disheartening path.

In 1944, most of Davidson's athletes were fighting in the war. There were only 200 students from which to pick a football team. Davidson’s record that year was embarrassing, but some wanted to keep a team at all costs. One editorial even suggested playing high schools or prep schools. “Any sport at any time,” it read, “is more worthwhile and interesting when the teams are evenly matched.”

By 1950, Davidson was losing spectators, money, and pride by playing football. An editorial suggested that Davidson, with eight other small southern colleges, could form a southern “Ivy League” whose members would agree not to subsidize athletics. After the conference was established, the small colleges would be more evenly matched and their games would most likely gain popularity. Davidson could still compete in the Southern Conference in other sports where she “had a fair chance of winning.” There was also the moral issue against college professionalism to defend. If the crowd was wrong, why did Davidson have to stick with the crowd? “Let Davidson lead the way and form a new conference,” cried an angry editorial.

In 1954, the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN was more sympathetic toward athletic subsidies. He argued that Davidson athletes on scholarship were on the whole as good students as any other boys. And if the alumni wanted to give their money for an athlete's education, it was their choice. Later that year, Davidson took a step to improve its athletics. The trustees granted the college $35,000 for athletic subsidies in 1955. Control of the college athletic policy also passed from the hands of the administration into those of the trustees and the athletic department. However, a DAVIDSONIAN editorial denounced the trustees’ action, claiming that $30,000 was a “puny bit” compared to what other North Carolina schools spent on football and could not substantially improve Davidson’s record. “If Davidson is to jump on the bandwagon of football,” it read, “let her do it in a big way.”

Letters to the editor were plentiful in 1960. One student wrote, “If we wish to call Davidson an educational institution, shouldn't we spend a little more money on students who can justify the name?” But others argued that athletes at Davidson were greatly responsible for keeping it a well-rounded school and not purely academic. The question of athletic subsidies remains. But whether through subsidies or not, the student’s prophecy in 1944 that evenly matched contests were the basis for successful athletics remains true. Even competition remains Davidson's goal.

THE PRETTIEST TEAM, IF NOT THE BEST, that Davidson ever fielded was this group of lovely pinmates of the football players, who donned uniforms for “The Red and Black Machine” in the late 1940s.

Telephone engineer Bill Pigott, left, and helicopter pilot plan aerial exploration for microwave tower sites.

“ENGINEERED MICROWAVE TOWER LOCATIONS ON MY FIRST ASSIGNMENT”

When Bill Pigott knocked on the door of Pacific Telephone, he had two big assets. One was an electrical engineering degree from Seattle University. The other was a craving to jump right into vital engineering problems. It was not long before Bill was exploring Washington's rugged Cascade Range in a helicopter to find sites for microwave relay towers—part of a multimillion-dollar telephone construction job. Today, it’s considerable satisfaction to him to see these towers spanning the mountains, knowing that his planning helped put them there.

Frederick R. Kappel, President
American Telephone & Telegraph Co.

Other important assignments followed: engineering maritime radio systems, SAGE systems—figuring engineering costs for Air Force Titan missile bases. “Our people respect a man’s engineering training—you really get a chance to show what you’ve got on the ball,” Bill says. “I was up to my neck in tough engineering problems right from the start.”

If you want a job where you put your training to work from the day you hang up your hat—you'll want to visit your Placement Office for literature and additional information.

“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive and imaginative men we can possibly find.”

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES