PAGE EIGHT THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 1962

The Campus in 1926 Could Only Suggest A Vision.

BY GEORGE

New Campus Vision Rises From Old Chambers Ashes

Davidsonian Staff Writer

So much has Davidson changed in 48 years, that the campus of 1914 would be unrecognizable today. The only significant buildings still standing are Phi and Eu Halls, Oak and Elm Rows, and the guest house, a gift of Andrew Carnegie, which at that time housed the library. The old Chambers Building, built by a $250,000 bequest of the late Maxwell B. Chambers in 1858, burned to the ground on Nov. 28, 1921, after it was discovered on fire at 5 a.m. that morning.

THE DAVIDSONIAN of Dec. 2, 1921, states that, as Chambers burned, “with heads bared, and with the fire of determination in their spirits, the students sang ‘O Davidson’.”

KICK-OFF FUND

Under the leadership of President W. J. Martin, the college immediately kicked off a fund-raising campaign for a bigger and better Davidson. On Oct. 19, 1922, THE DAVIDSONIAN printed the first artist's concept of New Chambers. The picture shows the proposed building to be very similar to present-day Chambers, with the exception that the north and south wings are drawn without their “T” shapes.

At this time, a student committee was chosen to head a $600,000 fund drive, $400,000 of which was to go towards financing Chambers. By 1924 the college was able to start construction of the south wing, and by 1928 the north and central portions.

WATTS FIRE

In the meantime, Watts, East, and West (Cannon) Halls were constructed. On Feb. 25, 1923, Watts was razed by a fire and rebuilt the following summer. Construction began on Richardson Stadium in 1926, with the construction of the central portion. In 1931 the south side was added, and in 1936 the East section was built to complete the stadium.

BIG PLANS

In May, 1937, a centennial program committee of the college listed the following buildings as being necessary and their approximate costs: infirmary, $25,000; library, $100,000; field house, $150,000; social center, $75,000; science building, $125,000; dormitory, $100,000; and a church, $225,000.

During Dr. Walter Lingle’s administration, the Martin Science Building, Preyer Infirmary, Gray Memorial Library, and Duke Dormitory were constructed. In 1941 Dr. Cunningham became president, and during his term the campus as we know it took shape. Five major buildings were built: Johnston Gymnasium, Belk Hall, the David Ovens College Union, Little Hall, and the Church.

In 1957 construction was begun on the Patterson Fraternity Court. There had been much discussion whether to build single units or cheaper duplexes, with THE DAVIDSONIAN fighting for the single units: “If a new court is worthwhile, then it is worth building right.”

DANA GIVES

By 1958 the new court had been built, along with the Babcock wing to the library and the present Post Office, which the college leased to the federal government. On Oct. 2, 1958, work was begun on the Dana Science Laboratories, in 1959 on Richardson Dormitory, and in 1960 on the Cunningham Fine Arts Center.

The vision of Presidents Cunningham and Martin have brought Davidson a long way from the smoking ruins of Old Chambers in 1921.

Paper Wages Long Fight To Abolish Faculty Oath

BY TOM LOFLIN

Davidsonian Staff Writer

The faculty oath—Is it right? Is it a wise requirement? This has long been a controversial topic in THE DAVIDSONIAN pages. Each member of the faculty must be a member of an evangelical church, according to the requirements for the faculty which Part II, Article IV, Paragraph 81 of the Charter and By-Laws of the Trustees of Davidson College spells out.

THREE ‘YEAS’

The “commitment to evangelical Christianity” requires each full professor to give an affirmative answer, when he is inaugurated during the annual commencement, to each of three questions: “Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, and do you believe in the fundamental teachings of evangelical Christianity? Do you believe the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments to be the word of God, the only infallible rule of faith and practice? Do you in humble reliance on the grace ofGod, which by the Holy Spirit, so to live and teach as to give expression to the Christian faith?” In 1958, the newspaper polled 62 faculty members about the rule. They favored three to one the rule that all the faculty be members of some evangelical church. They also favored 22-18 the oath at commencement. One noted, however, “These questions could be put to a man at the time of initial employment. They certainly do not belong at a commencement exercise before a strange audience.”

FIVE PROPOSALS

THE DAVIDSONIAN of Oct. 24, 1958, followed up with five proposed changes. First, the paper felt that the rule requiring the college president to be a Presbyterian should be modified to become only a statement of policy that could be changed. Secondly, the evangelical church membership rule should be altered and made more flexible to allow men of other religions or none at all to teach here. Thirdly, the college should not require that 75 percent of the professors be Presbyterians. As a fourth point, the paper wanted the special rules for the Philosophy and Bible Department revoked to allow broader religious and non-religious affiliations.

NO OATH

Finally, THE DAVIDSONIAN advocated doing away with the faculty oath because, “Such an oath is a standing barrier to many well-qualified men who otherwise would come to Davidson.” The oath had also been hotly debated in THE DAVIDSONIAN of 1952. Dean C. K. Brown supported it for two main reasons, tradition and “right.” He emphasized the oath dated from the earliest days of the college and it has a “right” to this.

Athletes Of The (Continued From Page Seven)

which stood at Davidson for many years. One of the oldest sports at Davidson is wrestling, and Harold “Westy” Westervelt stands above all Davidson matmen. Undefeated in three years of varsity competition, “Westy” was Southern Conference champion in the 157-pound class in 1957, 1958, and 1959. He was 157-pound champ in the Carolinas AAU meet in 1957 and 1958, and in the Georgia AAU meet in 1958. Westervelt was named “most outstanding wrestler” in all three meets. He was also a fine end on the football team, and was named to the All-Conference Academic team two years. There are many other great names in the annals of Davidson's sports history, but space has not allowed us to mention them all. A few of these other notable stars are Dick Grey and Thad Brock, both gridiron greats, and Hobbie Cobb and Witt Cobb, outstanding basketballers of the past 20 years. It is easy to see that sports writers could always find something to write about with these boys around.

ATLANTA NEW YORK

W. Olin Nisbet, Jr., Davidson '28
Jonathan G. Gullick, Carolina ’23
R. Sidney Abernethy, Jr., Davidson '29
James W. Squires, Yale '36
Parks H. Dalton, Jr., Davidson ’51
Claude S. Abernethy, Jr., Davidson '48
Arthur M. Rose, Univ. of New Hampshire
J. William Sexton, Jr., Carolina ’50

INTERSTATE SECURITIES CORPORATION
INVESTMENT SECURITIES

WINSTON-SALEM CHARLOTTE

Underwriters and Investment Managers of The Sterling Investment Fund, Inc.

Charles L. Green, Washington & Lee ’40
Charles W. Upchurch, Jr., Davidson '44
George W. Yount, Citadel '51
A. Alex Porter, Davidson '60
William J. Leinbach, Carolina ‘50
James A. Jones, II, Davidson ’57
Ron K. Bolick, Carolina '47
Charles L. Cobb, Carolina ’50

NEWTON

For 50 Years Tate-Brown’s Have Advertised “Quality” In THE DAVIDSONIAN!

Tate-Brown’s extends to the staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN, both students and faculty, sincere and hearty congratulations for a job well done. It has been our privilege to be associated with THE DAVIDSONIAN for the past 50 years.

Tate-Brown’s Natural Shoulder Shop
3rd FLOOR—DOWNTOWN and Park Road Shopping Center

FOR THE BRAND NAMES THAT COUNT!

Bass Weejuns
Gant Shirts
Varsity Town Suits
Canterbury Belts
Palm Beach Suits
London Fog
Guildshire Suits and Sport Coats
Gold Cup Socks

“FREE PARKING BOTH STORES”