FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1962 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE CITADEL IN CHARLESTON

Footballers Journey To Meet

HIGHLIGHTS and SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

SOMETHING NEW FOR DAVIDSON

Saturday night’s game against Catawba saw a novel and — what we hope will be a permanent — addition to the Wildcat cheering staff. This new “addition” is Miss Kaky Williams, a sophomore at Converse College from Richmond, Va. She needs no introduction to those who attended the game since she led the 'Cat footballers into the stadium and proved to be one of the highlights of the evening in her leopard-supposed-to-be-wildcat outfit. All this came about from an idea of head cheerleader Tarby Bryant's to “introduce some spirit into the cheering.” With a girl like Kaky, it seems like Tarby has accomplished his purpose. Just how Tarby managed to talk Kaky into becoming a Wildkitten is not known. It seems that he got pretty well acquainted with her on a Brownell Tour of Europe this summer. Incidentally, for those who would like to know how well this blue-eyed, brown-haired lass is qualified for her job, she served as head cheerleader at Thomas Jefferson High School in Richmond. According to Tarby, “She’s always loved to cheer.” For years Davidson went without a mascot and now it has two—a wildcat and a wildkitten. We understand that Kaky will be making regular appearances with the cheerleaders at athletic events. Thanks, Kaky—we hope to see you again.

AN ATTEMPT AT PREDICTION

Tomorrow's game against The Citadel will be an important game for the ’Cats. Not only will it be their first real test of strength but it could also be an indication of what sort of season that the ’Cats will have. If the ’Cats are plagued with inexperience at some positions, The Citadel has that problem all over their squad. They are cut out to have their troubles, as indicated by their 49-0 loss to Florida State. (Although they lost to Florida State last year 44-8 and went on to win the conference championship.) There seems no reason to believe that the 'Cats can’t take this contest, so we will stick our necks out and pick a winner and a score. Prediction: Davidson 17, The Citadel 14. As long as we've gone this far, we might as well predict the outcome of the only other conference meeting tomorrow, VPI vs. George Washington. Prediction: George Washington 21, VPI 7.

AN APOLOGY

Last week the football lineup was listed as ‘First Unit” and “Second Unit,” and, although the article accompanying this lineup explained that neither team was to be considered as first or second string, we have received some complaints. We apologize. From now on they will be designated as the “Red” and “White” units. So on Saturday night if the 'Cats kick off, the red unit will start. If they receive, the white unit will start.

IMAC Weekly Flickerball Schedule

Field Field

MONDAY 4 P.M. THURSDAY 4 P.M.
1 KS vs. Ind. 1 ATO vs. SAE
2 SPE vs. Phi Delt 2 Pi Kapp vs. Beta
3 SN vs. Pikas 3 Pika vs. Ind.
4 ATO vs. KA 4 KA vs. SX
5 Pi Kapp vs. Phi Gam 5 Phi Gam vs. KS

WEDNESDAY 4 P.M. FRIDAY 4 P.M.
1 Beta vs. SAE 1 SPE vs. SAE
2 SX vs. Phi Delt 2 SN vs. Beta
3 KS vs. Pika 3 ATO vs. Pi Kapp
4 SPE vs. KA 4 KA vs. Phi Delt
5 SN vs. Phi Gam 5 Ind. vs. Phi Gam

The gentleman seeking a more trimly contoured shirt will be delighted by our newest design. Fine cotton oxford has been tailored with utmost finesse to provide a slimmer fit. And of course, there's an authentically flared button-down collar to maintain the fastidious look you require. Rush Wilson Ltd.

BY DAVID POWELL Sports Staff Writer

When a shapely, Sheena-clad young thing ran out on the field at Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium last Saturday, Tarby Bryant marked the advent of his New Deal for the cheerleaders. Starting with an innovation named Miss Kaky Williams, a sophomore at Converse, Tarby plans to expand this year’s cheerleading activities. Barring an unexpected rift with his frequent date, the head cheerleader believes the new Miss Wildcat will grace most of Davidson's home games and some away ones. Asked for additional comment on Kaky, he replied with the eloquence of simplicity, “Well she’s good-looking.” Though his other schemes hardly take such pleasingly tangible forms, they are nonetheless geared to excite student enthusiasm for all the athletic teams. The cheerleaders will work out new tumbling routines and hope to test some good ones during the football season. Weekly they will publish a sports calendar, and they plan to work closely with the Pep Band in devising new arrangements. Actually, many of the new projects have already been put into effect. The cheerleaders were active at freshman camp, and they happily assume culpability for that new poetic ditty of the Class of ’66. Talk has begun on possible Defending Conference Champions.

It will be all ‘Cats and "Dogs tomorrow night at 8 p.m. when the Wildcats take on the Bulldogs from The Citadel in Charleston, S. C. The contest will be the first conference clash of the season for both squads. The Citadel, defending conference champs, are given little chance of repeating the honor, but they still stack up as tough opponents. Suffering a stunning 49-0 setback to Florida State last week, the Bulldogs will be out for blood tomorrow. Assistant Coach Tom Stevens, who scouted the Florida State-Citadel game, said that although they lost, “They are a tough team that never gives up.” When asked to pick some of The Citadel's players who stood out in last week's contest, Stevens commented, “It's hard to pick out a good performance in a rout like that.” He did, however, name several of the players who should be big guns against the ‘Cats tomorrow. Gene Dice, captain of the Bulldog squad and an All-Conference guard last season, will be one of the Bulldog’s toughest men. The passing team of Charlie Brendle at end and Sid Mitchell at quarterback should offer one of the bigger threats to the ‘Cat defenders. Brendle is characterized as “a fine pass catcher.” Aside from saying, “We expect them to do a lot of passing,” Dole admitted that he was not sure what type of offense to look for from The Citadel. “The Citadel didn't have the ball enough to get an offense going against Florida State.” He thinks that, although The Citadel “doesn't have the team they had last year,” the Florida State game was not an indication of The Citadel's potential.said that it was “just one of those days when the Bulldogs got all the bad breaks.” Dole seemed to expect to use the same starting lineup that he used last week, indicating also that he was very pleased with their performance and the outcome of the game. Getting off to a shaky start in the first quarter last Saturday night against Catawba, Dole’s men came back in fine style and took the season opener 21-0 from the Indians. Both the passing and running offenses worked for the ‘Cats as they chalked up 146 yards passing and 130 yards rushing against Catawba. Dole’s big line also held the Catawba offense to 13 yards rushing. Davidson’s first score in the game came in the second quarter when quarterback Earl Cole handed off to David Lopp, who went over from the three-yard line. Bill Dole, a junior, kicked the extra point and also booted the ball between the uprights after both other touchdowns. Sophomore end Steve Heckard, playing a fine game, scored both of the ‘Cats second half tallies on passes from Cole. He caught one in the end zone and ran one over from the six-yard line. Cole, having trouble finding his range at first with his first eight passes going incomplete, came back in fine style by completing eight of his next thirteen passes. Dole commended the playing of the sophomores, saying, “They didn't make as many mistakes as we thought they would.” He also praised highly the performances of Tom Ross at linebacker and Spud Stewart at guard since these boys haven't played since their freshman year. Junior Jim Fuller will probably miss The Citadel game according to the latest report from Dole. Fuller had the cast taken off his broken foot Tuesday, but it will still be too weak to play on Saturday. He should be ready for action against Wofford, however.

Next Saturday the ‘Cats will meet the Wofford Terriers in Spartanburg in a night contest.

Steve Gill Wins Yearly Cake Race

As the two young men neared the finish, a tremendous roar went up from the approximately 700 spectators. Steve Gill led Andy Little by a few strides, but the closer they came to the finish, the nearer Little pulled to Gill. The crowd went wild again, as they crossed the line, with Gill a half step ahead of Little. He was clocked at 9 minutes, 48 seconds—14 seconds slower than the record established in 1953. This marked the end of the annual 1.7-mile cake race. As the top 66 finishers crossed the line, they were handed a card entitling each to a cake baked by faculty and administration wives. The run was described as an obstacle course this year, having such hazards as two inches of mud covering the path in the woods and a pine tree and a high wood fence to climb over. The race was started 20 years ago to get cross country and track candidates. Coach Whittle usually asks the first 15 finishers to come out.

Heckard Makes W.O.W. In First Varsity Game

BY DENNY PHILLIPS
Sports Staff Writer

Steve Heckard, helping to lead the Davidson Wildcats to victory in their first seasonal contest, has been chosen as the year’s first “Wildcat of the Week.” Heckard, in last week's game against Catawba, was a prime factor in the ‘Cats’ 21-0 victory. Playing his first varsity game, the 6'3", 185 lb. sophomore snagged two touchdown passes from junior quarterback Earl Cole. The Cole-to-Heckard combination also set the stage for the third touchdown. Heckard caught five passes for a total of 97 yards. Asked if he had a secret formula for being such a top-flight pass receiver, Heckard came back with “Well, I do lots of push-ups on my fingers. That helps some.” Graduating from Winston-Salem’s Reynolds High School, Heckard played in the annual North Carolina East-West All-Star game his senior year. Head football coach Bill Dole, when questioned about Heckard, said “The boy’s got good potential. His speed is good, and he could develop into one of the best ends in the conference.” Heckard can run 50 yards in 5.7 seconds—wearing his football outfit. Heckard has demonstrated his ability to catch the ball, and if he continues to do so, Davidson is in for a fine season. Congratulations to the ‘Wildcat of the Week!’

PAGE THREE

RUSSELL WALLS (left) and ALEX GIBBS.

The Citadel Game Co-Captains

Alex Gibbs, one of tomorrow night's co-captains, is a senior halfback from Thomasville, N.C. Aside from his football duties, Alex serves as president of Phi Delta Theta fraternity. Russell Walls, the other co-captain against The Citadel, plays guard, and has the distinction of serving as co-captain while only a junior. He is also a heavyweight wrestler on the wrestling team.

IMAC Holds Meeting; Flickerball Season Set

BY JIM HARDWICK
Sports Staff Writer

The Intramural Athletic Council, headed by Steve Clark, held its initial meeting at 7:15 Wednesday in the Union Dining Room to discuss the upcoming flickerball schedule. The flickerball season opens Monday, September 24 with contests starting at 4 p.m. During the season, the touch football will continue for four afternoons a week: Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. A new ruling was voted on by all thirteen members present. In case neither team shows up for a game, both teams will be charged with a loss. Valid excuses must be submitted one day in advance to Keith Fraiser. It is hoped that this new rule will shorten the flickerball season. The IMAC representatives voted to have interfraternity track next spring rather than in the fall as it has been in previous years. Officers of the council this year are Steve Clark, president; Keith Fraiser, vice-president; and Mac Morris, secretary.

IMAC MEMBERS
ATO — Paul Duvall
Beta — Steve Clark
KA — Rick Smyre
Kappa Sig — Mac Morris
Phi Delt — Nat Harris
Phi Gam — Butch Covington
Pika — Keith Fraiser
Pi Kapp — Harold Kernodle
SAE — Rick Finch
Sigma Chi — Jack Hollenbeck
Sigma Nu — Arthur Clark
Sig Ep — Ed Reynolds
Independents — Al Miller

BRUCE STEIGNER doesn’t stand much of a chance as he is zeroed in on by JIMMY LEWIS and CHARLES TURNER as the Betas start fall flickerball practice. Several other fraternities began practice last week to get ready for Monday's opening games. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

GREAT BETWEEN COURSES! Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke! Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by...