The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1962

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Three To Get Ready...

The week is over and another batch of freshmen have flopped weakly into the exuberant arms waiting to bring them in. It has been rough. Upperclass vocabularies have been worn rather thin in talking about this or that “sharp guy.” And how many boys were you supposed to “really get out and meet?” Freshmen, of course, had no mean job cutting through the gilt and glitter. After the latest cliches about the humanities course had been exchanged, what did you know about that “sharp” boy except he could manage a 17-tooth smile and shake your hand off at the same time?

The picture presented to an outsider must be actually rather ludicrous. Two groups stumbling around a circle awkwardly trying to cope with one another with X-2 parties to go. The real questions must wait. The fraternity and the freshman won't really find out “who” and “what you are” until later—after pledging. Needless to say, the results are not always entirely satisfactory. It’s a big decision. And we think that both sides need more time to make it.

The Best Yet...

“I guess we used to be the best Freshman class yet.” “Yea, and look at us now.” Such were the comments made as we left chapel Thursday, smirking at the familiar speeches about the best Freshman class yet, the best faculty yet, and the new plans for further improvement of the college’s physical plant, faculty, and (with a little luck) academic standing.

Yet Davidson’s 126th academic year ought to be heralded in by more than the dull thud of dropping into the old, familiar rut, for many dreams of the past are being realized this year. For the first time Davidson students will enjoy a free cut system. This year we will all see whether our arguments for mature treatment were justified or whether they were mere shams to hide the search for sloth. And we will also see whether our professors accept this challenge to make their classes worth attending.

Also for the first time in its history, the Davidson student body now has members from nearly every continent and race, providing great opportunities for stretching our tiny minds. Perhaps the Davidson students’ traditional ignorance of and apathy towards overseas events will at last be shaken.

In addition to the new humanities course and facilities and the new language laboratory, President Martin announced future plans made possible by the generous giving of college alumni and friends. Yet President Martin also stated in his talk that Davidson would no longer tolerate students who do not demonstrate a desire for the education which, after all, is available to students here. Perhaps the question “Who belongs in college?” is being more seriously asked. Perhaps the college is now refusing to waste its time and money on students who are not willing to use the many new facilities and opportunities now available. As President Martin pointed out, the final choice is left to us students: do we want a degree or an education? We stand once more in the proverbial threshold of a new year, vaguely appreciating what this year could be, yet sadly aware of what it probably will be.

J.K.A.

Think Pig...

In the interest of preserving tradition THE DAVIDSONIAN feels impelled to direct a brief statement to the freshman class. Tonight you will meet the pigs ... the ones at Queens, that is. We must caution you to form no personal opinion as to their physical characteristics or personalities. Do not begin to consider the merits which you think you see in these young ladies until you have carefully discussed the matter with an upperclassman, preferably several upperclassmen. A highly prejudiced viewpoint is very important. Bigotry is the byword.

It must be explained to you that these girls have been carefully screened. Not a single beauty queen, good dancer or sharp comedienne has slipped through the ever-watchful eye of the Queens College board of admissions. An insipid personality is a prerequisite. Always remember: All Davidson men view Queens ladies with distrust, disdain and distaste. Tradition set the pace years ago. As sharp, madras-clad, Weejun-shod non-thinkers we follow... They are Pigs. If you want a sharp date call ED 2-7121.

Letters

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should not be received later than 6 p.m. Tuesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 218, Davidson, N.C.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Bill Hagen

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Willer

News Editor
Charles Dibble

They Love Me, They Love Me Not...

By Ackerman

The Freshman... How He Compares

THE CLASS OF '66 ... numbers 267 Freshmen, eight less than last year ... contains 26% of the 1012 high school seniors who applied and 66% of the 405 who were accepted for admission ... originates in 24 states plus Japan; is 13% Alumni-sons.

THE “MEAN” FRESHMAN ... is in the top 20% of his high school graduating class ... averaged 585 on the verbal and 629 on the math part of his College Board. The “average” Freshman won slightly over one athletic letter while in high school. Thirty-three of the Freshman Class were student body presidents while in high school. Last year only 22 Freshmen could claim the honor. Forty-one were presidents of their class, the same number of class presidents found in the Class of ’65. The class of '66 contains the astounding number of 21 high school paper editors. Only nine could be found last year. As in the Class of ’65, 13% were editors of high school yearbooks. Eighty-one institutions of higher learning accepted one or more members of our Freshman Class. Carolina chose 59, Duke 2. Forty-two freshmen were rejected by at least one school. Princeton led the way with 10 rejections, Duke refused seven.

CLASS OF ‘66 SCORES

VERBAL MATH
700-800 24 46
600-699 88 127
500-599 122 81
400-499 28 18
350-399 5 —

MEAN SCORES

VERBAL MATH
60 499 534
61 497 531
62 532 570
63 539 577
64 562 598
65 569 610
66 585 629

FROM OTHER SCHOOLS

New Mexico, Monmouth - Report New Paternalism, Reading Plan

Albuquerque, NM—(I.P.)—The University of New Mexico, in terms of administrative attitude, is not very paternalistic, according to Dean of Students Sherman E. Smith. Students here have been given a large measure of independence of action and expression with generally good results, he added.

On practical grounds, greater student self-regulation means administration becomes simpler and more efficient. A specified committee will ascertain from every faculty member those books which are worthy of inclusion on the General Reading list, while the Comprehensive Reading requirements will be prepared by the individual departments.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"More effective et students assume responsibility for their own affairs." Dr. Smith pointed out that there are problems inherent in moving away from the paternalistic university. Among these: "The problem is partly one of adjustment from the paternalistic climate of the home and the secondary school to the relatively free climate of the university. Occasionally, a few students confuse liberty with license and respect for their autonomy with administrative indifference to their behavior."

The new student will be encouraged to begin his reading immediately upon acceptance as a student of the college and to continue the reading throughout his freshman and sophomore years, giving particular attention to the reading during vacation periods.

Commenting on the "in loco parentis" concept as stated in a 1961 resolution by the National Student Association, Dean Smith said: "It's not a new concept. The NSA resolution is a new and more comprehensive formulation of what students have been saying for a long time. The doctrine of paternalism is one which college and university administrators seldom adopt consciously. They more often find it thrust upon them. As well, I think, for good reasons of educational theory, and on the score of convenience, administrators would like to move away from 'in loco parentis' as rapidly as they can."

In answer to the question, why would administrators like to move toward greater student autonomy, Dr. Smith said: "Because abandonment of the parental position is theoretically sound on grounds that students must be treated as responsible individuals."

Another benefit of the plan will be that students will be able to secure "advanced placement" credit for any course offered at Monmouth where the material has been mastered independently of regular class enrollment by passing what amounts to a final examination on the subject. The fee for such an examination to satisfy a divisional requirement or to secure advanced placement with credit will be $10, and an additional fee of $45 per term course will be charged for recording such credits on the student's transcript.

Frosh Camper Reflects With Tongue-In-Cheek
BY BUCK LAWRIMORE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

So you want to be a Davidson gentleman. You remember the first time you envisioned that worldly, pensive sophisticate you would become at Davidson College. And here you are ready to leave home, and Mother is crying and it’s just like the movies. You climb onto the bus as you shake Dad’s hand. Good old Dad. Only the tears in your own eyes keep you from sensing that unusually firm handshake, the big alligator smile on his face.

After a bouncy ride for many hours, which does absolutely no good for your already upset stomach, you arrive at the shaded sanctuary to be your home for four years. You are abruptly dropped from the bus and alone, alone as you’ve never been before. You can’t go home again. It’ll never be the same and you know it.

You are fortunate to take part in Davidson's unique freshman camp, only the second in the school’s history and sponsored by the YMCA. No sooner than you toss your cumbersome trunks into your forbidding dormitory room, a bus roars up, later than you were to arrive. Some 67 boys crowd in. Everybody smiles and shakes hands and tries to be gay, but somehow the dark bus resembles a huge coffin as it whines through the chill rain to Camp Stewart, 10 miles east of Charlotte.

After an incredibly long ride to be so short, you stumble through the pine trees and around the lake to your cabin. The rain stops and the boys are a little more cheerful and maybe you'll live after all. Your first meal away from home, a hearty supper in the pine-paneled dining hall, does wonders for your spirits. You find that the boy across the table is an old friend, that your roommate is a great fellow after all.

After supper, Danny Carrell, camp director and president of the student body, welcomes you and encourages you to make the most of camp as well as college. "You can’t go home again," says the Rev. Russell T. Montfort, pastor of Davidson Methodist Church. His words echo deep down inside. He lets you know that adjusting to college life won't be easy, that you'll probably turn over most of your religious beliefs and found a new one on your own. His words are quite discouraging but you feel you'll make it.

All Wednesday, speaker after speaker — alumni, teachers, student leaders and others — fire information as well as questions at you straight from the hip. That night you ask many questions of the big senior who is your cabin leader, and he turns out to be not so idolizable as you had anticipated. Within your cabin, within your mind and within your soul, as you defeat doubt after doubt and arm yourself with a wealth of information, you begin to feel remarkably peaceful and confident, no longer trembling in ignorance at the days ahead.

After a rousing pep rally, singing the fight song and alma mater, you begin to feel like one of the boys — you even join them in composing the traditional class cheer. Thursday morning brings clear skies high over the swaying pine trees and you feel just a little higher than they are. You have had a good taste of the agony and the ecstasy of college life by now... you like it.

When the bus pulls back in at the college, you climb out laughing with your new friends, chatting about everything from the last meal to the whichness of what. You see the surprisingly lost faces of other freshmen who have not had the training and preparation you have had. You feel great and the same luggage which weighed you down now seems almost negligible. You whistle as you break into a trot, nodding confidently at les miserables around you.

Class Of ‘62: Where They Are

Nearly half of Davidson’s 1962 seniors are now in graduate schools all over the world, according to the latest records of the college’s alumni office. Only two of the 206 grads have begun life on the other side of the fence — teaching school. Meanwhile, Uncle Sam claimed some 42 for various branches of the armed services.

Four could not part with their alma mater. Now employed here are Don Stowell in drama; John Goodman in the alumni services; D. G. Martin, Jr., assistant dean of students; and Joe B. Martin, assistant director of admissions. The lure of the business world attracted 17 students, while one man did just the opposite. William S. Gershengoren, Class of ‘31, returned to wrap up his Bachelor of Science preparation last August. A former Davidson student, he returned for his degree and is now a medical technician in Connecticut.

Seven new alumni were undecided on their vocation when questioned by the college, and a sizeable 34 have not been heard from.

ATTENTION FRESHMEN!
An organizational meeting for all those interested in working on THE DAVIDSONIAN staff will be held this Sunday evening at 6:30 in the Green Room of the Union. No experience is necessary.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.