Che Bavidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BILL HAGEN Editor-in-Chief
PAGE TWO
EP WILLER Business Manager
FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1963
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

The Rule Awakens

Quite a bit of misunderstanding has been generated between the administration and Patterson Court during the past few weeks. It
seems there’s this rule about drinking... But let’s go back a little.

For the last two years student councils have attempted to liquidate the sometimes slumbering, sometimes waking off-campus drinking rule. Danny
Carrell has pronounced the epitaph of efforts by this year’s council to change it. There were some results—student representation on
the committee and a trifling change in the drinking rule’s cousin, the fraternity function rule (You can now have as
many chaperoned alcohol-free parties as you want.). The biggest results were probably incidental lessons in practical politics. An “A” for
effort.

The recent misunderstanding began when five fraternities found out the hard way that the curfew rule was to be enforced
from now on. The spirit of the drinking rule awoke at all the ruckus and “suggested” to two fraternities that
they had better not hold a couple of parties they had planned. Needless to say the muscle behind the suggestion
was not lost on those who knew the advice was coming from the enforcer-interpreters.

The protests from the court were a natural enough reaction. What was potentially dangerous was the “Hell with them!” attitude
that was being expressed by many in private. This stemmed from the view that they were being dealt with as
the parent would deal with the rebellious child. And it did appear for a time that cooperation and consideration of
both sides of the question had been sacrificed to a strict laying down of the law.

We are glad to see that the Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life is sending its members to fully
explain the rule to the Court. We hope there will be some serious listening on both sides. Because the minute
any group of students feels it has lost its middle ground or voice in its own affairs, pressure will build
for the dialogue to stop. Then the real children will take over.

Artist Series Answer

The Judith Anderson presentation last week represented a milestone in Davidson’s Artist Series. The Artist Series Committee ran the program
as an extra, and was thus able to sell tickets to outsiders. Twenty-four hours prior to the performance over 750
seats were sold and by showtime the gate had risen to 800. This was the largest sale ever to be
made in the history of the series, and could provide the key to enlivening a program which has sometimes seemed
downright unattractive to the student body the last few years.

Admittedly the Series Committee has had problems in attracting big—and at times even medium—names for its programs with only the
money allotted to the series from the student activities fund. The big names are pulling anywhere from five thousand up
for one night stands these days. Davidson can only afford to spend that kind of money on IBM machines.

But with the Judith Anderson program the Artist Series Committee waded into the field of promotion. It obtained a star,
advertised the performance, and sold tickets to help pay for the program. People from Charlotte came out, seventy of them
paying as much as five dollars a seat for the privilege of hearing a performer in whom they were really
interested.

The day has come when top flight artists command more than we alone can afford to pay. The problem is
as simple as that. The answer came to us last week. In order to provide a high quality Artist Series,
Davidson must turn more and more to promotion and outside support.

J.M.W.

An Active Election

About this time every year seniors start basking in their senility and there is a natural tendency to reminisce on
those frosted days of yore. We indulged in this pastime this week and tried to recall past student body pres.
elections. It wasn’t easy making out the details. But one thing was clear—the candidates and the issues left pretty much
the same impression.

You know one of them in a superficial way. He looks sharp in 1st period History. Or he belongs to
an all-right fraternity. But you still aren’t convinced he’s the right leader, so you go to assembly to make up
your mind. It makes little difference though because unless your candidate gets foot-in-mouth disease or something, you find he endorses
about the same things as the others. So you vote for him.

The point is you didn’t hear much difference in the speeches and when you vote you've forgotten all of the
qualifications you didn’t have time to read about in the newspaper. You just choose the good guy image.

The speeches could have made a difference though. You wish you had heard one word of the candidates’ qualifications. You
miss the frank assertion of self that can only be echoed in a campaign manager's speech. Only can another person
give the candidate’s self-effacing promises some human basis by personal testimony. The supporting superlatives may be somewhat distorted but they
do add spirit to the thing.

We would like to see some real campaign speeches made by real campaign managers. Qualifications deserve at least as much
emphasis as anonymous promises. Who knows? Qualifications might decide the outcome.

Noted In Passing

Gov. Ross Barnett has been urging college graduates to stay in Mississippi because “you have more opportunities here than anywhere
else in the world.” They ought to have more opportunities. They’ve gotten more federal aid than anywhere else.

Because we like to live, we were interested to see a study on the relationship of smoking to the life
span recently published. Apparently statistics show that 23% of all nonsmoking 21-year-old males in the U.S. will not make it
to age 65. The death rate rises for smokers. Of those who smoke ten and fewer cigarettes a day, 27%
won't see 65; of those who smoke one to two packs a day, the mortality is 38%; and of those
who smoke two or more packs of cigarettes a day, 41% will not make it to 65. As one national
magazine has put it, it wasn't so long ago that a whole cranberry crop was condemned with less conclusive evidence.

We understand that perhaps a majority of students do vote in elections. Of course it depends which election you are
looking at (consider Wednesday’s turnout of 419 for instance). If we have offended any non-voters on campus though, we apologize.
We certainly didn’t intend to persecute a minority group. If we thought that it would ensure domestic tranquility, we would
be the first to defend the dynamic status quo.

Staff

Associate Editor Knox Abernethy
Editorial Assistant Jim Williams
Assignments Editor Bill Ruth
Assistant Editor David Stitt
Managing Editors Jeff Wampler, Bill Pridgen
Sports Editor Charles Ramberg
Feature Editor Tom Loflin
News Editor Charles Dibble
Assistant News Editor Jimmy Downey
Photographers Joe McCutchen, Buck Lawrimore
Cartoonists Dan Adams, Joe Howell, Walter MacDonald, Rufus Hallmark
Advertising Manager Charlie Smith
Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane
Assistant Bus. Manager Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

MacDonald Suggests Changes In Library

BY WALTER MACDONALD

In higher education the library has replaced the single volume as the student’s textbook. Thus, the goal of a college
library should be to provide the intellectual resources of books, periodicals, and pamphlets needed to sustain the work of the
academic curriculum.

At present, the Grey Memorial Library contains 96,000 plus volumes and over 500 periodicals. Approximately 6,000 volumes are added to
the library each year. Between July, 1961 and July, 1962, Davidson's total library expenditures, excluding costs of the capital plant,
utilities, janitorial service, etc., was 4.75 per cent of the total institutional expenditures for educational and general purposes. This is
0.25 per cent lower than the minimum recommended by the American Library Association.

In a recent comparison with 12 ranking liberal arts colleges with goals similar to Davidson's, the college library stood poorly
in dollars spent per student per year. The 12 averaged 95 dollars per student per year; Davidson averaged 65 dollars.

The library is presently faced with three main problems: the lack of enough books for research in depth; an undersized
periodical library; and an understaffed and overworked library staff. These problems must be solved if the library is to accomplish
its goals in the immediate future.

The number of bound volumes should be greatly increased. No limit should be made on the number of volumes needed
for a college library of our type because no library is ever adequate. There are a number of ways in
which the book stock can be increased. The faculty should spend all the book money allotted it. This has not
always been done in the past and both the quality and quantity of the library has suffered because of it.
Individual professors should be responsible for books dealing with their specialty, and the departments as a whole should

Vast Wasteland

Bernard: ‘Davidson Is Pretty Good After All’

Dear Editor:

Through some quirk of the U.S. mails the February 15 and February 22 issues of THE DAVIDSONIAN both reached me
yesterday. The number of articles and editorials that were either directly or indirectly critical of Davidson appalled me. To list
a number of them: Goodykoontz Goodbye; Caustic Carrell Censures Faculty; Miller Plans Departure; The Oath In Committee; Hindu Talks Christianity;
Revelation: Revealing Reviews.

This letter is not written in criticism of THE DAVIDSONIAN or any of the above articles, though I would certainly
take issue with some of them. But rather, in contrast, this letter is written to say something pleasant. I like
Davidson. It has a good student body, a good faculty, a good administration, and a good staff. It has had
a noble history, is having a noteworthy present eminently comparable to the best colleges in the country, and will, I
believe, have an even better future.

While I am sure there are those at Davidson with a wider basis for judgment, my own experience is at
least sufficient to give credence to the above statement—nine years at the University of Virginia, six years at Yale University,
seven years at Davidson, and currently a year at Dartmouth College while on leave from Davidson.

Richard R. Bernard

Brand

Dear Editor:

With the second resignation of Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz (and this one appears to be for good), I feel that
we, as students, should examine our part in the Vagabonds. Before I go any further, I should like to point
out that this is not an attempt to rationalize anybody's actions or to condemn anyone's lack of participation in the
program. Dr. Goodykoontz stated that one of the major problems is that drama is fourth or fifth in the list
of extracurricular activi-ties. Sadly, this is true, but such should not be the case. As students, we come to college,
or should, in order to have our minds and beliefs challenged, hopefully with the result that they are made stronger
or are discarded. I know of nowhere a person is made to really think more than at a modern play.
I think that the entire problem lies in the fact that most students are either too lazy or too scared
to want to think and so they stay away from drama. The problems that face the Vagabonds from the Administration
would, it seems to me, be much easier to overcome if the Vagabonds had a large student group supporting them.
It would be much easier to ask for a pick-up truck if the Administration knew that a hundred students would
benefit from it. As it is, the good done goes to such a few people that it does not justify
the cost of sponsoring the Vagabonds program. Work in the Vagabonds does not require that one live in the Fine
Arts Building. It may mean this for a week during the production of your play, but the rewards are worth
it. You don't have to be in every play. It would be wonderful if you would do one and then
bring someone to take your part for the next play. Also, support includes going to the plays. The Vagabonds get
discouraged when they play to empty houses. It does not require more time to sit through a play than most
students waste every day. If you are one of the “studiers,” you are organized enough so that you can free
from your schedule three hours one night, about once a month, to see your classmates and friends. I am voting
to keep the Vagabonds and to support them. How do you vote?

Rick Brand
Vermilye

Dear Editor:

The recent action taken by the Trustees on the faculty oath issue is reminiscent of the ancient fable, “The Three
Peasants and the Wolves.” The three peasants who had been out in the forest cutting timber were huddled around their
campfire that night, while the wolves had assembled and were patrolling the ring of darkness around the lighted area. The
peasants, having no weapons but their axes, were quite understandably getting rather nervous about the intentions of the great, shadowy
shapes with the glaring, luminous eyes and gleaming fangs that were gliding about in the outer darkness. Although the wolves
refused to venture into the light, the peasants decided that the situation was rapidly becoming psychologically insupportable and took counsel
upon a possible course of action. After long and earnest debate, a mutually acceptable decision was reached. They would extinguish
the fire thereby making the wolf-shapes go away. This is essentially the same action that the Trustees have taken. Instead
of taking a positive stand on one side or the other of this inflammatory issue, they have adopted the classic
tactic of quietly shelving the issue, putting out the fire, in the hope that the entire messy situation will quietly
disappear. Behind a screen of platitudes from Trustee Chairman Richards: “... maintain the college's Christian witness ... We see no
reason for changing what has worked well through the years ... But we will certainly carefully consider the issue—it won't
be closed in advance,” the oath issue has been railroaded into committee “for further study.”

It has been pointed out that committees often get things done. I submit that the committee is also an excellent
place for disposing of the unwanted cats of legislation and policy that refuse to die quickly, decently, and with a
minimum of vulgar theatricalities. If the reader desires corroborative evidence for the above statement, I refer him to the Congressional
Record. But taken in a broader sense, the oath itself is an attempt to extinguish, or at least hide, the
fire. The wolves of atheism, agnosticism, and non-Presbyterian Christianity are gathering on the rim of the light. Jesus said, “Let
your light so shine before men...” The oath is trying to build a bushel around that light. If the Christian
atmosphere of Davidson, which the Trustees claim they are trying to preserve, cannot survive without Medieval laws and coercion, then
we have already gone to the wolves and just don’t know it yet. Perhaps this is for the best.

William D. Vermilye

Work together with the library staff in filling areas not under the responsibility of the individual professors. The cooperation between
library administration and faculty would call for a systemized program of advice and purchasing. A survey of the present major
fields and their subdivisions would point out the gaps that need to be filled. Students should make use of the
suggestion box in the right foyer on the main floor of the library. At present, student requests average between six
and ten per month. If the student needs books that are not available in the Davidson Library, he can use
the interlibrary loan to get books from the most adequate libraries in the nation. The system of handling periodicals needs
to be revised. There are many fields which need to be covered more adequately. Back issues of learned journals should
be purchased. The present system of checking out periodicals should be reversed so that bound periodicals could be checked out
of the library. The student would then be required to pay for any volumes he lost. The library needs at
least two more qualified assistants to work on the staff. An assistant cataloguer is needed to aid in the cataloguing
of the ever-increasing number of books purchased by the library. A full-time reference librarian is needed to aid both faculty
and students in their research. These two librarians could take the load off the present staff and thus allow them
to do their own work more efficiently. By the early 1970s, the library will have 150,000 volumes and there will
be no more room to expand. This means that a new wing will have to be added. When this does
happen, there are three things that should be built into the new wing. A new reserve reading room is needed.
The present reserve room is too small, too noisy, and poorly lighted. Some improvements can be made now. New lights
should be installed in the present reading room. If this is not possible, the 60-watt bulbs should at least be
replaced by 100-watt bulbs. The two-hour limit on reserve books should be extended to three hours. Fines should not exceed
the value of the books. A rare book room should also have a place in the new wing so that
Davidson's collection of rare books can be better displayed. A drama and poetry room is also needed in which the
student can listen to readings of drama and poetry on records or tape recordings. Until this room is built, the
Fine Arts Building could be used. In the meantime, tapes and records should be purchased with the idea of a
separate room in the future.

Were There Related Ole Miss Incidents

BY BOBBY AUMAN

At my home on a Sunday during a recent vacation were two officers from Fort Bragg who had been sent
to Oxford, Mississippi during the University crisis. 1/Lt. Daniel Tuma of Lincoln, Nebraska and 2/Lt. Edward Hospodar of Indiana, Pennsylvania
related their experiences to my family and me that afternoon, and I thought perhaps these experiences would be of interest
to Davidson students. Lt. Tuma told how they were called the K. K. K. by the people of Mississippi, the
letters standing for “Kennedy’s Koon Korps.” He said that his duties were certainly not pleasant ones, and that one of
his most unpleasant assignments was to give an order that no Negro sergeants could occupy command posts in jeeps. After
the United States had spent two million dollars to place Meredith in Ole Miss, Tuma found it very disconcerting when
Meredith complained about the segregation of the troops. He thought that Meredith certainly had no right to express anything but
his gratitude to the United States Army.

Tuma related several anecdotes about his trip to Mississippi. He said that 97 Army vehicles passed through Atlanta around 5:30
in the afternoon obeying no red lights and speed limits. He told of an early morning incident in Georgia, when
a young schoolboy asked him what he had in his Army truck. Dan said that it was a cannon. The
boy then asked: “Where are you going with it?” Tuma lied: “Fort Hood, Texas.” The young scholar then said: “Why
don’t you pass through Oxford, Mississippi on your way and shoot the hell out of that nigger with that cannon?”
He told about being stopped at a red light in an Alabama town, and a farmer in a pick-up pulled
up beside him and said: “Well, if you live through Oxford, we'll both be in Tuscaloosa at the beginning of
next semester. I'll see you there, EVEN THE MOST SIMPLE DOG CAN BE TRAINED TO FETCH HIS MASTER'S SLIPPERS! Lieutenant!”
Tuma told about how really scared he was while passing through Tupelo, Mississippi when the hostile townspeople shouted and booed
at the troops.

At the height of the crisis, Hospodar was in Jump School at Fort Benning and therefore did not travel with
his Company. He flew to Oxford and was there only a short while, but said that the time really seemed
much longer. Their diet of C Rations was a hard one, but was necessary since Mississippi merchants would not sell
them anything. Just prior to departure, the soldiers were paid but were unable to spend their money when they arrived
in Oxford. My brother, 2/Lt. Clyde W. Auman is stationed at Fort Bragg but was not sent to Mississippi. However,
most of his best friends were sent, and he heard their reactions to Oxford. One of his friends there is
Lt. James Livingston, brother of Bobby Livingston, ‘60. Livingston set up a roadblock near the graveyard where William Faulkner is
buried, and he visited Faulkner’s grave. He asked a farmer if many people visited that graveyard. The farmer said, “Well,
yes, especially since Bill Faulkner was buried. Why, I suppose four or five hundred people have been by here since
Bill Faulkner passed away.” Livingston then asked: “This Bill Faulkner, was he very well known?” The reply to this was:
“Yes, I suppose so. Seems like everybody around here knew Bill Faulkner. I reckon everybody in the county knew who
Bill Faulkner was.”

Tuma and Hospodar stated that their stay in Mississippi was not in the least enjoyable, and that they considered getting
back on North Carolina soil one of the happiest moments of their lives. Reflecting on the crisis and on the
candid reactions of two who were in the midst of it, one finds an old saying appropriate: “The world is
a comedy to those who think, a tragedy to those who feel.”

YOU'RE COMPLETELY USELESS! I CAN THINK OF NOTHING MORE UNSANITARY!
