Nationally Ranked ‘Cats — Meet St. Joe Tomorrow yr Hautdsontan (See Page Three)

VOL. LII

THE NEW LOOK of the Student Store — Moved into its new location in the recently completed wing of the
College Union, the Student Store is open for business. The move was made during the Thanksgiving holidays. The previous location
will be transformed into a dining area, enlarging the present room. Last year the college allocated some $800,000 for construction
of the new wing. Other Student Store facilities, under the direction of Joe Burdette, will include five pool tables, a
billiard table, and ping-pong tables. (Staff Photo by Smith)

NUMBER THIRTEEN

Publisher Ralph McGill Next Reynolds Lecturer

Ralph McGill, publisher of the Atlanta Constitution, will speak as Reynolds Lecturer in Hodson Hall at 8 p.m. McGill received
the Pulitzer Prize in 1958 for his editorials on racial hatred. He serves as director of the Fund for the
Advancement of Education. Born in Soddy, Tenn., McGill attended Vanderbilt University upon his graduation from the McCallie School. After serving
in the Marine Corps for two years, he returned to Vanderbilt for three more years. He received an LLD from
the University of Miami after he had won the Rosewald fellowship for European travel in 1937. An honorary doctorate was
awarded him by Harvard University in 1961.

Having served as editor since 1942, McGill became publisher of the Constitution in 1960. He had been with the Atlanta
paper since 1928 after leaving his six-year job as sports editor of the Nashville (Tenn.) Banner. In addition, McGill has
contributed a number of articles to national magazines and writes a nationally syndicated column. Under McGill's direction, the Constitution has
been one of the Deep South’s clearest advocates of moderation in racial matters, and one of the most consistent champions
of compliance with Federal integration rulings. His writing proved influential in bringing about the recent peaceful integration of Atlanta’s public
schools. As a result of his work, McGill has been the object of much hatred in the South and has
often become a campaign issue in Georgia political elections.

Election Methods Overhauled; Candidates May Make

Lecturer Ralph Gabriel, an authority on the American way of life, will speak on “The Democratic Prospect in the U.S."
to the student body at assembly, Tuesday, Dec. 10. He appears as a visiting Phi Beta Kappa lecturer. Gabriel, Sterling
Professor of History and Fellow of Trumbull College, Emeritus, at Yale University and presently professor of American civilization at American
University in Washington, D.C., will speak also in Hodson Hall at 8:15 p.m., Dec. 8, reviewing the American society in
a lecture entitled “Religion and Secularism in Mid-Twentieth Century America.” Holding degrees from Yale, Cambridge, and Bucknell universities and from
Williams College, Gabriel is currently a member of the U.S. National Commission for the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO) and is president of the American Studies Association. He is the author of several books, including The Course
of American Democratic Thought, Religion and Learning at Yale, and Traditional Values in American Life. He is editor of the
Library of Congress Series in American Civilization and of the 15-volume “Pageant of America.”

FRED HETZEL ‘Cats’ Big Men (See story page three)

Morrell Receives Actuarial Grant

Clark Morrell, Jr., a junior from Bethesda, Md., has been awarded a $500 actuarial scholarship by the Prudential Insurance Co.
Morrell qualified for the scholarship following a summer of actuarial employment and was one of only 16 students in the
United States and Canada to receive the scholarship.

Christmas Vesper Service Presents Musical Theme

The ancient musical service, “A Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols,” first used centuries ago, will be the Davidson College
Christmas Vespers presentation at 7 p.m. Sunday at the College Church. The Davidson Choir, Male Chorus, Brass Ensemble, and the
Selwyn Avenue Presbyterian Church Handbell Choir will all take part in the service, traditional to schools and colleges of Christendom
since it was first presented by Kings College Chapel, Cambridge, England. After 30 minutes of music by the three groups,
the service will actually begin at 7:30 in a form widely used in schools and colleges throughout Great Britain and
the United States today. Readers will be Davidson College students Dave Hardeman and Decker Faw. College organist Wilmer H. Welsh
will play during the program. Choral Music Professor Donald B. Plott will direct the chorus and choir, and Instrumental Music
Professor Grier M. Williams will direct the ensemble. Mrs. Jack Hunter is director of the Handbell Choir. College Chaplain, the
Reverend William H. Terry, is program coordinator. This is the fourth year that the service has been given as the
traditional Davidson Christmas Vespers. Attendance at this service is voluntary.

Midnight Oil Burns In Chambers Hive

The Freshman Council has opened the banquet hall in Chambers Building for freshmen's use as a study hall five nights
a week from 11 p.m. till 1 a.m. Two members of the Freshman Council will supervise the study hall each
night. The plan which began last night is on a trial basis until Christmas. Brooks Sheldon, a member of the
council, commented, “The freshmen dormitories are noisy, especially at night and on the lower halls. The study hall is not
restricted to freshmen; however, it was created for their needs. The Freshman Council urges them to take advantage of this
facility during the trial period.”

UNION PARTY FRIDAY

“Smile! You're on Candid Camera!” Have Warren and his Union Board been able to capture your embarrassing predicaments on film?
You might soon receive a motion picture contract for your “natural” acting ability as shown in the Candid Camera episode
at the College Union Christmas Party. This series of filmed sketches of life at Queens and Davidson is only one
of many features which will highlight this year’s Christmas gala. Three top bands will provide all sorts of music, sound,
noise, harmony, discord, rhythms, and dance tempos for the connoisseurs of music. Featured in the Morrison Room for slow dancing
are the King Bees from Winston-Salem. The B. S. Plair combo will liven the cafeteria with the faster rock and
roll songs while repercussions of the jazz age will blast out from the “Cave” with Sid Farrar in charge. Special
entertainment will take place in the Morrison Room during the intermissions. Prior to the party's beginning at 8 p.m., the
judging of the Christmas Sweetheart will begin. Assisting the chairman of the judges, Capt. Chuck Partridge, will be Mrs. Sandra
Hight, Mrs. Louise Hampton, Miss Suzie Summers, and Coach Heath Whittle. During the first intermission at 9, the new sweetheart
will be crowned by Gracie Anderson, reigning sweetheart, from Queens College. Major entertainment starts at 10, featuring talent from the
Davidson and Queens student bodies. Student-faculty stunts will provide laughs in addition to the humor of the candid flicks. At
the end of the entertainment, the King Bees will resume playing until 1 a.m., at which time the party will
begin to close. The combo downstairs as well as the jazz group will play continuously during the five-hour party.and the
fates from the cards for this Friday-the-thirteenth event is the mystical Madame Zabor from Austria. Mistress of the messages of
the hearts and diamonds, the Madame will expose their secrets in the shadows of the Blue Room. Concentrating more on
features than fantasies will be “Shadow” Nelson, renowned caricaturist of the Carolinas. Nelson will rapidly sketch portraits of those who
stand and wait. In the Green Room, Professor Donald Plott and junior Harry Causey will take turns playing the organ
and leading the singing of old and new carols of the Christmas season. A cedar Christmas tree will be there
to decorate as you sing along with Plott, Causey, and the Lamplighters, a new singing octet of Davidson men. Ping-pong
will be available in the new wing of the College Union. It is hoped that the newly-refinished pool tables will
have been installed for free patronage. If the night is clear and the fates play their cards correctly, there may
be an old horse with a wagon full of hay making periodic campus tours in the shadows of the waning
moon. Warren, Union president, said, “Bob Ivey will be emceeing the entertainment for this fifth annual pre-vacation event, which should
be even better than last year's. With Queens granting special late permission for the girls, the Union Board is planning
for a really big turnout.” Door prizes will be given to the holders of the free general admission tickets.

“Every candidate shall be allowed a written statement on one legal size sheet of paper and no more than 200
copies, with costs defrayed by the Elections Committee, to state his platform in a fair and factual manner.” This was
the text of a motion made in the Student Council meeting Tuesday night by representative Will Jackson and passed unanimously
as an election change in student body elections. Other discussion of proposed election changes centered on a proposal which would
automatically carry over to Student Council elections those who were defeated in the Freshman Advisor election. It was deleted from
a list of changes by an 11-2 vote of the council. Election of cheerleaders and the head cheerleader fell in
the spotlight of council investigation. President John Spratt recommended that the procedure be revised after a meeting of the council
and the head cheerleader. Spratt also announced the Second American Revolution Conference will be held at Bryn Mawr and Haverford
colleges on the weekend of Feb. 7-9. News of the conference comes to the Student Council through the National Student
Association. The meeting will include a series of addresses, panel discussions, and intensive seminars on specific aspects of the civil
rights movement in America. Spratt mentioned the time of the conference coincided with Midwinters Weekend, but said he hoped that
anyone wishing to attend the conference would drop by to see him by Dec. 14, since registration must be in
by Dec. 20. He added that the Student Council would pay half of the $20 registration fee for each delegate
from Davidson. The next meeting of the Student Council should confirm the proposed election changes. Resolutions for the new year
include some definite action for NGA.

Midwinters Plans Change; Money Saved For Frolics

“We're not going to be able to have the big-name band and large dance as planned for Midwinters, but we
will spend the money on Spring Frolics,” stated IFC president Haynes Kelly after the weekly Interfraternity Council meeting Tuesday night.
Kelly added that most of the “big names” that have been considered have quit touring for the winter, and suitable
places with enough capacity to have a dance for the whole student body are unavailable. Kelly also indicated there will
probably be a concert weekend either March 7 or 14. As for the immediate future, plans were discussed for the
annual Christmas party for the children of Barium Springs Orphanage and the interfraternity blood drive competition. The Barium Springs Christmas
parties will be held Thursday night, Dec. 12. The boys and girls, ranging in age from about 6 to 12
years old, will eat supper at the fraternity houses, and then will receive gifts at the parties held at the
houses, where Santa Claus will visit. Each fraternity will entertain six children. The winner of the blood drive competition, being
held next Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 9 and 10, will receive a plaque, won last year by the Sigma Nus.
Drill cuts will be granted as usual by the ROTC department to cadets donating blood.

Author Has Separate Peace With Semester Book Critics

BY GREG GOVAN

Perhaps in addition to chapel, coffee hour, and evening canned speeches, Davidson should have discussion groups at Hattie’s for visiting
writers. The idea, of course, is ridiculous since the YMCA sponsors the Book of the Year and having its author
up the road might offend whatever they happen to believe in at the time. But it would prove one thing,
as it did with John Knowles last Tuesday night: visiting writers are human, if humanity is still contained in getting
up from the table to make the trip outside and around the corner. And the idea is ridiculous because if
we ever found out Knowles was as human as Shylock, we might be less apt to prick him as though
he wouldn't bleed. Less apt, then, to write reviews of A Separate Peace from the blurbs on the jacket, or
criticize him because we read what he had not written. John Knowles, author and teacher at Carolina, told us about
the Near East and how it acted as a mirror to see ourselves better. John Knowles, human being, told the
coffee hour audience that some Tilley, whom he mistook at reading for a freshman, had reviewed a book he didn’t
write and that he read The Catcher in the Rye for the first time after Peace had been published. Knowles
was author and teacher again Tuesday night, but unlike some, he was not helplessly incommunicative as to what and how
he wrote. He had a rather dry way of telling what a novel was, and why we still had an
eighteenth-century form hanging around. It was very simple, you could take a novel to the john with you: highly portable,
highly personal, off-on at will escape. Or, Knowles concluded, “gossip raised to the level of art.” There were reasons to
write novels, also, such as money. Knowles told of his highly complex work of art submittable to four levels of
interpretation written on an island in the Bay of Naples (roughly equivalent to poetry written at three a.m. in dorm
rooms). It flopped. But Peace didn’t, perhaps because of a publicity campaign not really necessary, but which was the chance
for Knowles to quip at certain methods. And there were other reasons: energy to be expended, a wish to deblur
life, to be understood. Writing is not the vocation of everyone whose energies spill over for a while; nor is
it for morning coats and spats: “anyone who sells his emotions cannot be a gentleman,” Even Bill Faulkner. Knowles may
have told all about Peace when he said that writing novels is closely akin to woodworking, to cabinet-making. They were,
to him, similar means of working off that peculiar form of energy. Peace is a good cabinet whatever else it
may or may not be. And Knowles is more artisan than artist. But a plucky artisan. And an interesting one
to talk with, as about the nature of news coverage in the Near East. And a human one, which fact
is never so important as to two people drinking beer in pursuit of the Great Words, perhaps a certain kinship
with the author and teacher who got up to go to the head.

JOHN KNOWLES

Visiting writers are human
