SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1963

Side Lights
BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

FOOTBALL ... Someone said no news is good news, and if that’s so this page probably contains the best news in the paper; except for the flash that rush week is over. And by the time this “no” news is read it will probably be old news or older news. Tonight as this paper is being delivered to the dorms, the only real sports news of the week is being made in Greenville, S.C. Davidson’s football team, picked by the experts to finish ninth, eighth, seventh, or even as high as sixth in the Southern Conference, opens their nine-game schedule against Furman. Being no expert, I decline the honor of making any final finish predictions, but quite a crowd will be in Greenville tonight. Many of us expect the experts to be fooled, and that’s a bright new tune in a dull old song around here—expecting something.

HORSES... Blasco Ibanez had his Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, Grantland Rice, his four horsemen of Notre Dame, and Furman its lone white stud and mounted Paladin; but tonight’s game could very well be settled by some real two-legged horses and four horsemen who ride at every football game. Furman, last year’s fifth place Southern Conference entry, fashions the bulk of its attack around the Southern Conference’s two leading ground gainers—fullback Elliott Keller and halfback John Cook. One year ago it was the rushes of Keller combined with the power sweeps of Cook that wrecked Davidson. Along with these two excellent runners, Furman boasts 5’9” quarterback Danny Donovan, known as the “Irish Gambler.” Donovan, a fine runner, is famed for his rollout pass-run option series. These are Furman’s horses.

Davidson's attack is led by an interesting array of hosses or perhaps baby elephants. Spearheading the running attack will be junior halfback Pat Fisher. Teamed up with Fisher will be senior halfback Jim Fuller and sophomore halfback and game co-captain Pack Hindsley. Should it become necessary, junior fullback Dave Hendricks proved he could fill in for Fisher by his performance in last Saturday’s game scrimmage. If Hendricks (215 lbs.), Fuller (222 lbs.), and Hindsley (205 lbs.) play together watch for the field to list. For in this “tilt backfield” (backs bigger than the line) Hindsley will be the runt of the litter. Along with the three deep backs, Davidson welcomes back senior letterman Earl Cole and senior Benny Coxton at quarterback. These two seniors round out Davidson’s stable of horses.

These aren’t the only horses that will be in Greenville tonight. There are four other horsemen who ride for every football game played anywhere. Tonight, when Furman’s white stallion passes around the field, these four warriors will spur their mounts and gallop through the skies. If you look close you may see them sometime during the evening. The first horseman is injury. He snaps bones and teams with the same swift stroke of his hammer. Beside him rides old man weather. He numbs fingers with his frosty breath or saps the strength from players with his fiery glare. The third rider, on closer inspection, is not a horseman but a woman—dame chance. As she smirks the football bounces—up, down, sideways, or not at all. And finally, the lead horseman appears dressed in black with his face enshrouded in mist. This is apathy—wrecker of teams; unquestioned leader of these four fables as they gallop to and fro seeking an opportunity to swoop from the skies and mix with the mortals below. For after all is said and done it is often these four who decide the outcome of the game.

WHO WILL WIN? Two years ago at Furman, Ben Coxton was injured. He has not played since. Two years ago at Furman, Jim Fuller played his finest collegiate game, rushing for nearly 100 yards. One year ago Furman stamped ends to beat Davidson. One year ago Davidson’s freshmen beat the Furman freshmen for the first time in many years. If Coxton stays well, if Fuller repeats, if the power sweeps of Furman (said to look like a herd of cattle coming at you) can be contained, if the sophomores remember who they beat last year, and, oh yes, if the whole Davidson team keeps those particular four horsemen away from their bench, Davidson will win. That’s a long list of ifs but a good team will remove all of these ifs. Davidson has a good team.

A RUBBER ISLAND... From football to baseball in less than a line is quite a jump, but down where the football team practices is a ditch—it used to be the Davidson infield. The only thing now remaining as a reminder of this is a column of dirt topped majestically by home plate; left strictly through oversight when the rest of the infield was plowed up. The baseball team expressed a desire to improve baseball facilities. Since that time, led by Rick Smyre, Stevens and President Martin, they have set to work. This summer the whole infield was dug out gratis, through the donation of labor and equipment by Mr. Sm of Gastonia. Later, Earle and Rick Smyre along with Alonzo hauled sand onto the field and mixed it with the topsoil. By doing this they hope to insure against the infield drying out and becoming as hard as it has been in the past. At the present time, the infield is awaiting the arrival of a ton of cinders which will be laid under the topsoil to allow for better drainage. After the cinders have been delivered, the whole baseball team has volunteered its services to dump the gravel and fill the rest of the infield. The team then intends to spread the topsoil and grade the finished product. The baseball field needed improving. It will need even more improvement. I think if the present willingness and effort is continued, the field will be in the best shape it has ever been in.

JUST ANOTHER DAY ON THE LOWER FIELD. Except this day was August 25th and the only people on the lower field or anywhere are football players. Here the line goes through dummy blocking practice. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Highland Games Provide Wins For Turner And Mills
BY BOB STRAUSER
Assistant Davidsonian Sports Editor

On July 13 five members of the 1962-63 Wildcat track squad participated in the colorful “gathering of the clans in the valley” at Grandfather Mountain. This eighth annual display of Carolina heritage featured such attractions as track and field, dancing, wrestling, and bagpipe competition. Sanctioned by the AAU, the track and field gathering included athletes from high schools and colleges throughout the Carolinas. Because of the poor running conditions times were not exceptional in the track events.

Although Alan Turner failed to win his heat in the 100-yard dash, he came back to win the event over a strong field. Turner concluded a fine afternoon by taking another first in the 60-yard dash and a second place finish in the 220. Veteran pole vaulter Billy Mills distinguished himself with a second place in that event. In another area, the versatile Mills won his division in the highly competitive Highland wrestling event. Steve Gill, a member of last year’s freshman cross country team, finished second in the 440-yard dash. Denny Phillips and Chester Davis failed to place in the cross country. Coach Heath Whittle pointed out that entrants in the track and field competition came from a wide area and that the Davidson team totals taken individually or collectively was a respectable one.

Six Nominated For All-Academic Team

Every year at this time the Southern Conference begins to compile its all-academic football team. To be eligible for this team, a man must be a starting regular on his team and have at least a “B” average for the preceding semester. In the past two years Davidson has managed to land one or two men on this team. Last year both Bob Cordle and Mike Owens were elected to the squad. The following players are the boys that Davidson has nominated for the all-academic team this year:

Steve Davidson - Pre-law
Bill Dote - English
Dick Pulp - Business
Russell Walls - Pre-med
Pack Hindsley - Pre-med
Britt Smith - Biology

BILLY MILLS AND ALAN TURNER caught in action as they compete in the Highland Games this summer. (Staff Photos by McCutchen)Meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... upperclassmen. Seventy cakes will be presented by members of the faculty and administration to the early finishers. Last year's top two, Steve Gill and Andy Little, found positions waiting for them on the cross-country team. Coach Whittle indicated that he would be watching the event.

The famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

All-Academic Team Annual Frosh Cake Race

Davidson Hopes To End Famine Tonight
BY JIM BEASLEY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

"This team has progressed further in two weeks of practice than any other team I have coached at Davidson," commented Coach Bill Dole as this year’s Davidson football team closed fall practice last week in preparation for Furman (a team they have failed to beat for 14 years) on an optimistic note.

The ‘Cats are bigger than last year with a line weighing an average of 210 pounds. The backfield, with an average weight of 202 pounds, is among the largest ever at Davidson. The depth problem which has plagued Davidson teams in the past is not so serious this year. There are capable reserves at every position. However, the depth at guard and tackle consists mainly of sophomores who lack game experience.

Much of Coach Dole’s confidence about this year's team is based on last Saturday's game scrimmage which Davidson won 27-0. The coaches were well pleased with the team’s overall performance. They played conservative football, with emphasis on the fundamentals.

A highlight of the game was a touchdown scored by senior tackle Dick Fulp, who recovered a kick blocked by Pack Hindsley in the end zone. A second touchdown was the result of a 66-yard pass and run play from QB Benny Coxton to end Steve Davidson. Fullback Dave Hendricks, back after a year’s absence from the team, scored another on a short plunge. And the final touchdown was made when halfback Jim Fuller made a short dive from the five-yard line.

Benny Coxton, now fully recovered from an old shoulder injury, did an excellent job at quarterback, as did veteran Earl Cole. Pack Hindsley, a sophomore, earned a starting position at halfback by his fine performance. Russ Walls and Dick Fulp were outstanding in a line that blocked and tackled well all day.

Major surprise of early practice has been the shift of Jim Fuller to left half. Fuller, a fullback his last two years, is big (220), and very fast for his size. In uniform, he runs the 50-yard dash in under 6 seconds. Coach Dole, extremely pleased with Fuller's performance at his new position, summed up his feelings about the shift with the observation that, “He looked like a runaway freight train Saturday.”

The scrimmage victory was marred by an injury to Lyle Blalock. The junior fullback is sidelined at least until the VMI game, October 5, with a dislocated shoulder.

The major weakness which must be overcome before Furman is the kicking game. This was also a problem last year when the ‘Cats finished last in the conference in this category with a 30.0 average. The answer seems to be either in Jim Fuller or Bill Joyner, both of whom have been punting well in practice. One of them will probably handle kicking situations tonight.

The whole Southern Conference is improved over last year according to early reports. In the opener with Furman tonight, Davidson faces one of the strongest teams in the conference. Coach Dole feels their backfield, consisting of Danny Donovan, Elliot Keller at fullback, and halfbacks John Cook and Sam Pickens, is the best in the conference. Last year Keller and Cook were first and second in the conference in total rushing yards with 724 and 661 yards respectively. Cook averaged 6.6 yards a carry; Keller, 5.4.

Last year’s freshman team was the first Davidson football team, varsity or freshman, to defeat Furman in the last 15 years. Two of the standouts from that team, Pack Hindsley and Phil Hightower, have been named co-captains for tonight's game. Probable Davidson starters in the backfield are Coxton at QB, Fuller and Hindsley at halfback, and Fisher at fullback. The line consists of ends Steve Heckard and Steve Davidson, guards Russ Wallis and Morris Williams, tackles Dick Fulp and Bill Dole, with Britt Smith at center.

Athletic Staff Adds Three New Faces

This September saw not only the appearance of two hundred and some odd new freshman faces, but also the arrival of three new additions to the Davidson athletic staff.

The basketball coaching staff has been expanded by the addition of Perry Holland. Holland, from Sanford, N.C., is a graduate of Campbell College where he played basketball. He will coach the freshman basketball team, replacing Coach Joe Hunt who will become assistant varsity coach, a job which he previously handled in addition to his position as freshman coach.

The freshman football team also receives a new coach. He is Captain Don Campbell of the R.O.T.C. department, who will replace Maj. D. H. Threlkeld who left last year. Captain Campbell graduated from Davidson in 1957. During his four years at Davidson, he played both offensive and defensive halfback. He will team with Major Pierce to coach this year's freshman team.

The third new addition to the department is Mr. Thomas Couch, who will be the new head trainer. Couch is a graduate of Western Carolina where he played center and guard. From Western Carolina, he moved to Indiana where he worked as an assistant trainer while obtaining his master’s degree.

New Season Ahead
BY FORREST ROLES
Davidsonian Sports Writer

"This is a good, tough squad, and barring injury we should have a real good season." In this manner, Coach Robert Pierce evaluated his freshman football team. "Our biggest problem," said Pierce, "is depth in the line. We only have 25 men out for the team and we are two deep in the backfield. But," he said, "even a few injuries in the line, especially at end, would weaken us considerably. I'd like to see some more linemen try out for the team."

Pierce seemed especially pleased with his backfield. "This is the first time in several years that we'll be able to field a backfield with both speed and power. Usually, we have one or more backs weighing about 160. They're bigger this year."

Pierce hadn't decided this early on a starting team but listed these men as looking promising: At offensive center and linebacker, Gary Waldron; Joe Gaddy, Ed Childs, and Joe Peal at the guards; John Fagg and William Randolph at backs; and William Rikard, Terry O’Hair, and perhaps converted halfback Jim Phipps at end.

In the backfield, the competition is rougher, especially at quarterback, where Jake Jacobson has a slight edge over Jimmy Poole. Fighting for the halfback positions are Tom Dews, Mickey Andrews, Jim Phipps, and Sam Cathy. Johnny Walker and Cal Calhoun are battling for the fullback positions.

"I think we've looked very well against the varsity," said Pierce, "and I’m very pleased with how the boys are coming along. We'll be ready for the fifth of October." The Wildkittens open their season at Lee's McRae.

Monday's Main Attraction:

Monday afternoon at four o'clock, entrants in the annual Frosh Cake Race will once again depart from the soccer field amid the shouts of encouragement from upperclassmen. Seventy cakes will be presented by members of the faculty and administration to the early finishers. Last year's top two, Steve Gill and Andy Little, found positions waiting for them on the cross-country team. Coach Whittle indicated that he would be watching the event with interest. For ambitious freshmen, the record time is 8:34.5. As usual, however, a good many will find that any sort of finish will severely tax their resources. However, only the football team and those with medical excuses will be allowed to miss the annual event.

Welcome Freshmen!

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING THE

Welcome Freshmen!

JACKSON CLEANERS
Across from Gulf Station
N. Main St.
We offer you the Quickest Dry Cleaning and Pressing in town.

Freshmen Winners of Drawing:
Henry Temple - Sport Coat
Chip Pendleton - Slacks
Peter Van Dorster - Sweater
Walter Daniel - Shirt
Jim Shackleford - Shirt
Gary DeVane - Belt
Chris Hawk - Julian Fite

Rush Wilson, Ltd.