PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1963

Three Offer Platforms | Ackerman, Ariail Run For | Fraternities Will Party To Edit ’64 Yearbook Boss Of Scripts ‘n
Pranks | After Lettermen Sing

Voting for one of the following three students, nominated for the office of Editor of the yearbook Quips and Cranks,
will begin next Wednesday, March 20.

JOHN BAUM

John Baum, a history major, is from Milledgeville, Ga. Last year Baum, a member of Alpha Tau Omega, served as
Activities Editor of the Quips and Cranks and currently as its Managing Editor.

First of all, what is an Annual and what is its purpose? Technically, it is that publication which by means
of pictures and copy records the important events, happenings, and interests of the student body of that particular year. However,
an Annual can be more than simply that. It should enable us in later years to recall with a feeling
of warmth and pride our few years in college.

The only way this is accomplished is through the use of superb photography and imaginative copy. In the realm of
photography, there has to be a realistic balance between shots which are formal as opposed to those which are informal
or even candid. This blend of formality with informality, sophistication with realism, I believe, is a necessity for a memorable
Annual. If elected Editor of the 1964 Quips & Cranks, this will be one of the goals for which we
will strive.

As I said above, copy is the second primary ingredient in the make-up of an Annual. Personally, I feel the
less copy the better. However, some copy is obviously necessary. When it is necessary, it should not only contain the
actual facts concerning a particular event or activity, but it should also be written in such a way as to
arouse in us that feeling of warmth and pride I mentioned earlier. If this can be accomplished, the value of
an Annual is greatly enhanced. I will sincerely try to see that that is accomplished, if elected Editor of next
year’s Quips & Cranks.

A position such as this requires experience with and knowledge of the mechanics of putting out an Annual. Last year
I served as Activities Editor. This year I have served as Managing Editor. Through these positions I have acquired valuable
knowledge of the necessary behind-the-scenes work and headaches inherent in publishing an Annual. Our college days will pass and our
memories of those days will become beclouded as the years slip by. If elected Editor of the 1964 Quips &
Cranks, I will strive to edit an Annual which will not only provide the means of recalling our friends, professors,
and events of that year, but will recall them in such a way as to make us feel proud of
having had the opportunity of the Davidson Experience.

Terry To Speak At Next Vespers

The vespers speaker for this Sunday night will be the Rev. Will Terry, Davidson College chaplain. There are seven compulsory
vespers services remaining in the semester and one voluntary, the Easter service on April 14. Terry stated that the election
of speakers for vespers had, in the past, been misunderstood by a majority of students. The speakers are selected by
the chaplain and the Religious Life Committee. Suggestions by students concerning topics and speakers are welcomed. The aim of this
selection is to give students an opportunity to hear outstanding speakers that they would not ordinarily hear and to present,
not only preachers, but also scholars, or as Terry stated: “theologians and thinkers, as well as preachers.” A majority of
next year’s speakers will be speaking on the topics submitted by students.

MARTY LAFFERTY

Marty Lafferty, an economics major from Concord, is the Assistant Photography Editor of the Quips and Cranks. A member of
Pi Kappa Alpha, Lafferty has also worked as photographer for the alumni office.

What is the Quips & Cranks? It is the annual history of Davidson College. More particularly, it is a pictorial
narrative, with complementary copy, depicting the life of the student both on and off campus; his habits, his activities, his
environment. Photography is the key word in yearbook publications. You need high-quality photographs—nothing but the best. But they also need
to have an aesthetic quality in them to give them meaning. I advocate an annual which is not only meaningful
but artistically appealing, using more numerous full-page and double-page spreads. Color should be used wherever possible to enhance the beauty
of the book. Each section should be preceded by a pictorial essay. The old saying that “A picture is worth
a thousand words,” has never been so true as it is today. But pictures cannot and must not be random
shots. They should convey meaning and should maintain continuity with the rest of the book.

An editor benefits from his entire staff, but especially from his photographer. It is of primary importance that the two
men work closely to produce one result. Could an editor be much closer to his photographer than for them to
be one and the same? The combination of photographer-editor also cuts expenses, making more funds available for a better book.
Being a salaried photographer for three years has made me acutely aware of the artistic talents that it takes to
produce a superb annual and gives me a large source of information on which I may draw. I propose an
annual of high quality and appeal which will not only equal but far surpass the annual of the last photographer-editor
of the Quips & Cranks, Charlie Rose.

BRUCE STEIGNER

Bruce Steigner, a pre-med major from Columbia, S. C., has served as Athletics Editor and Fraternity Editor of the yearbook.
Steigner, a Beta, is also a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-med fraternity.

A yearbook is an organization. It is not so much binder, copy, and pictures as it is the product of
a group of individuals working to achieve a common goal. To achieve this goal, the yearbook organization must have certain
components: first, an editor-in-chief with experience, know-how, and imagination; second, a writer who can achieve continuity of thought for the
entire book; third, skilled photographers who can competently transfer actions and moods to film and paper; fourth, reliable section editors
who can coordinate photographers with subjects. Each of these, as a part of the whole, is necessary for the production
of this or any other yearbook. Yet the book itself, the final product, the goal of the organization, has its
own components; there must be sections in it to represent the Classes, the Faculty, the Student Organizations, Athletics, and Social
Life. Emphasis must be placed upon the latter two in order to stress their renewed importance to the student as
an individual. The sum of these parts must be a book that clearly and unambiguously answers the question, “What was,
what is, and what will be Davidson College?”

I stated that there are four components necessary for the production of the yearbook; the most important of these is
the editor-in-chief, for upon him lies the final responsibility for every word and picture that goes to press. The editor
must have enough imagination to plan a new book, as well as the experience and know-how to make it work.
I believe that I can fulfill the qualifications for the office of Editor of the 1964 Quips and Cranks; I
have been a member of the staff for three years and have served both as Athletics and Fraternities Editor. I
have worked closely with two Editors-in-Chief and I believe I have the experience, the know-how, and, I hope, the imagination
to undertake the responsibility of that office.

WF Sets Final Plans For State Conclave

A state-wide Westminster Fellowship Synod Conference will be held at Camp Stewart Friday night, March 15 through Sunday, March 17.
The Davidson and Queens Westminster Fellowships are in charge of the function. It will be an informal gathering of about
75 people. The purpose of the conference is centered around an interest in social work and how social organizations attack
various problems in society. The group will visit Charlotte, about 10 miles from the camp, on Saturday. The purpose of
the excursion will be to make a study of some of the areas in Charlotte where social work is being
conducted and to examine some of the problems of the underdeveloped neighborhoods in Charlotte.

In Charlotte, the conference will visit such organizations as the Alexander Home for Children, the Charlotte Crime Committee, and the
Florence Crittenton Home for Unwed Mothers. They will also visit a Negro children’s nursery and the Siegel Avenue Church which
does inter-city social work. A trip to a juvenile court will also be included. The conference will also elect a
moderator, vice-moderator, and a clerk. Joe McCutchen, president of Davidson Westminster Fellowship, is running for the office of state moderator;
John Crow is running for the office of vice-moderator. About 15 members of the Davidson WF will be present. Dr.
J. D. Kelton, Chaplain Will Terry, and the Rev. Curtis Harper will also attend as discussion group leaders at the
conference.

The Davidson WF meeting of March 22 will feature the last installment of Dr. S. D. Maloney's lectures on Rudolph
Bultmann, a famous German theologian. His topic, post-Bultmannians, is the third in a series which included a talk on Bultmann’s
thought and an analysis of criticisms of Bultmann’s theology. Local elections will also be held at this meeting. On March
29 Father Cuthbert Allen of Belmont Abbey will speak on the Ecumenical Council in Rome to a joint meeting of
the Davidson and Queens WF groups.

The two juniors below are seeking the office of Editor of the student humor and literary magazine, Scripts ‘n Pranks.
Voting will be held on Wednesday, March 20.

HANK ACKERMAN

The present Business Manager of the Scripts ‘n Pranks, Hank Ackerman is a history student from Louisville, Ky. Ackerman is
also a member of the Publications Board and Beta Theta Pi fraternity. For the past five or six years the
Scripts ‘n Pranks has been termed the “bastard” publication on campus. The question is, are the reasons for itsExistence really
legitimate or not? This question has been asked these years by the students, administration, and faculty alike, and they are
just beginning to forget it. We must ask ourselves what are the students’ needs in the field of publications in
general. There is no doubt that the Senior class annual, Quips ‘n Cranks, and the student newspaper, THE DAVIDSONIAN, are
essential to our lives as students. But is there a need for a magazine which tries to blend into one,
the humor and creativity of college life? Before the campus goes without such a publication, I think it should consider
strengthening the present, growing S ‘n P and thus, taking a positive attitude toward creativity, build it into a publication
which would rival THE DAVIDSONIAN in its appeal to the students. What are the needs of the S ‘n P
now? The basic need of the S ‘n P is organization. But organization of a staff is impossible without serious
student backing. The Magazine Advisory board, set up last year to help channel student writing to the staff has been
dormant. However, it could be effective in working through English classes, Sigma Upsilon, and other students as well. A permanent
staff is also needed for preserving the continuity and tradition of the S ‘n P from year to year as
well as from month to month. What type of magazine should the S ‘n P be, is an important determination
of the student body. Should it be entirely humorous, serious, or both? The fact is that a totally literary or
serious magazine has not appealed to students in the past, nor I doubt that it could today. A totally humorous
magazine, perhaps, would be appealing: but, in turn, it would not reflect the entire abilities of the students. I am
convinced that a blend of the two can be made, as has been done in the past. Good humorous literature,
I think, is the optimum goal in writing, but it is also the hardest to write. There are many Shakespeares,
Miltons, Wordsworths, and Dostoyevskys, but are there many Chaucers? I make no claims to an extraordinary talent for writing, but
I would like the opportunity to help better organize the S ‘n P staff in continuing the progress already made
this year.

JOHN ARIAIL

John Ariail is a history major from Greenville, S. C. A member of Kappa Alpha Order social fraternity, Ariail is
also a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and on the varsity tennis team. Scripts and Pranks has always been
somewhat of a bastard publication and I suppose it will always stay that way. No other publication comes and goes
and changes its personality the way Scripts and Pranks does. Part of this occurs because Scripts and Pranks is attempting
to play the role of two types of magazines—literary and humor. Much of the rest of the problem can be
traced back to the fact that usually there is no continuity of the magazine from issue to issue or even
of the staff from year to year. For instance, Editor Ackerman was the only one on the staff this year
who had worked on it to any degree last year. The duality of the magazine will have to continue unless—as
some have suggested—there is an increase in student fees to allow the organization of a separate literary magazine which would
permit Scripts and Pranks to concentrate exclusively on humor. I would be against this because I believe if properly handled,
as it has been this year, humorous and literary works can make for a much better magazine than one which
concentrates exclusively on one or the other. The mistake in the past—which Ackerman has eliminated this year—is to bring out
one issue dedicated to humor and another completely literary. As to the personality of the magazine, I would like to
see a development of the continuity which has been started this year. Things like a standardized masthead, a column by
the editor and continuing features such as “What Kind of a Man Reads ‘Scripts and Pranks’” can give students a
sense of reading a new issue of the same magazine rather than a different magazine every time we publish. The
staff situation will not be as bad this year as it was last because there are several regulars who will
be back next year and a few rising sophomores who will possibly join the staff. I would like to see
the staff become definite rather than the nebulous group which has heretofore written Scripts and Pranks and the best way
is by giving the staff something in which to feel a pride of membership—a magazine.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Burts
Lilly
Stroud
Dassy
Floyd
Tilley
MacCormac
Gable
Martin, J. G.
Griffin
Richey
Kelton
Scott
Williams

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

The second Interfraternity Council concert of the year will headline the Lettermen trio in Chambers Building tomorrow evening at 8,
followed by the controversial fraternity after-parties. These parties were the subject of discussions this week between members of the Faculty
Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life and the individual fraternities. The committee plans to complete its visits to the
individual fraternity houses next week. Prof. W. G. Workman, Prof. S. D. Maloney, and Gus Burgdorf outlined the committee's position
Tuesday evening at the Sigma Nu house. McGavock explained the committee position as a pragmatic compromise between the college’s principle
of opposition to drinking and its knowledge that there are numerous violations of the rule. “We realize that in many
respects the stand is inconsistent,” McGavock admitted. “But it is not hypocritical nor does it represent a failure to understand
the students. It is the best possible compromise under the circumstances.” McGavock traced the evolution of the after-dance party from
what he described as “often-time drunken brawls” of the late 40's and early 50’s to the present parties. He noted
that the college rule was modified several years ago to remove the restriction which prohibited students from such things as
drinking in their own homes away from Davidson. “We realized at the time a push for further modifications would come,”
he commented. There are now three possible alternatives according to McGavock. First, the college could police the present rule to
put real teeth in it. But this is not done because it would merely drive the parties underground. Secondly, the
college could abolish the rule. McGavock made plain that hopes for this are unrealistic. “I believe a vast majority would
affirm to carry the rule on in principle,” he told his listeners. “Finally, we can attempt to live with the
rule, not policing it intensively although we know violations exist.” This final possibility represents the present position. Where the college's
responsibility begins and ends was a question McGavock was reluctant to answer precisely. “The faculty has certain beliefs in principle
that the students are expected to live by,” he commented. But he stated that the committee cannot maintain its principles
and also give fraternities permission to hold off-campus cocktail parties or any other functions where it is known there will
be drinking. The rule as seen by the committee has a deterrent effect on excessive drinking. As long as there
are no complaints to the committee, no action will be taken. But if irrefutable evidence of drinking is brought to
the committee, disciplinary action would definitely be taken by the college. “This position represents the maximum retreat possible for the
committee,” McGavock emphasized. “If we back down any more there would eventually be pressure to allow drinking on campus.” Recognizing
a conflict between the widespread social acceptance of drinking and the college’s principle, McGavock made a prediction. “If social mores
continue to evolve in the present direction, we may become an oasis in the desert. (“A desert in the oasis,”
Maloney corrected.) Then the drinking rule may evolve,” McGavock continued. “It appears we are fighting a losing battle, but we
are opposed to drinking in principle,” he concluded. The Lettermen are a trio who have produced numerous popular songs in
the last two years. Following the concert will be the traditional off-campus after-parties by the individual fraternities.

ELECTIONS CALENDAR

Monday, March 18
Speeches by YMCA Presidential candidates.

Tuesday, March 19
Voting for members of Honor Court, if necessary.

Wednesday, March 20
Voting for officers of the YMCA.

Thursday, March 21
Voting for members of Honor Court, if necessary.
Nominations for Freshman Adviser by the rising senior class.
Voting for publication editors, Freshman Adviser, Student Union President.

Friday, March 22
Continuation of above voting.
Voting for members of the Student Council, if the other elections are completed.

Go A.F.O.T.S.!

These letters stand for Air Force Officer Training School—the gateway to an Air Force career for ambitious college men who
didn't have the chance to enroll in AFROTC. OTS is a tough course. But it’s a great opportunity—one that may
not always be available. If you're within 210 days of graduation, we welcome your application now. We can't guarantee that
we'll be able to in a year. As an Air Force officer, you'll be a leader on the Aerospace Team.
You'll be serving your country while you get a flying headstart on an exciting career. The U.S. Air Force is
at the forefront of every vital new technological breakthrough of the Aerospace Age. It sponsors one of the world’s most
advanced research and development programs—and you can be part of it. OTS is open to both men and women. For
information, see your local recruiter.
