FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

SEEK NINTH WIN
’Cats Host Jacksonville Five After W. Va., Furman Losses

Tomorrow night at 8:00 p.m. the Davidson Wildcats will face Jacksonville University here at Davidson.

HIGHLIGHTS and SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

Coach Driesell said, “We don't know much about them. They beat New Hampshire just about the same as us, but they'll be tough.” Assistant Coach Joe Hunt left Wednesday to scout Jacksonville.

Last night the ‘Cat basketballers, not yet able to regain their shooting eye, lost a close 65-63 decision to Furman. Jacksonville’s chief claim to notoriety is Roger Strickland, an All-American candidate who, along with a player named Bill Tyner, is averaging over twenty points per game.

BY RICK SMITH Sports Staff Writer

The Davidson five came back in a big way against New Hampshire here in Johnston Gymnasium. Fred Hetzel led the way with 24 points to a 115-54 victory that saw five Wildcats hit in double figures.

On January 16 the Wildcats will journey to Spartanburg, S.C., to meet Wofford. Coach Driesell said that he does not expect an easy game with Wofford, in spite of the ’Cats 77-58 victory over Wofford’s five here at Davidson earlier in the season. “They're tough at home,” said Driesell.

The following night a talented Princeton team, led by All-American candidate Bill Bradley’s 33 points, edged the 'Cats in a hard-fought contest 79-70. Hetzel tallied 19 to lead Davidson scoring in the game played.

Davidson played four games over the Christmas holidays. The ‘Cats split even, winning two and dropping two.

On December 18 the Wildcats surprised the nation by upsetting second-ranked Duke 72-69 in the Charlotte Coliseum. Fred Hetzel with 27 points and Bill Jarman with 21 led the team effort.

December 22 the ‘Cats went north and lost to a superb Cincinnati team 72-46.

Swimmers Meet The Citadel Next BY DENNY PHILLIPS Sports Staff Writer

A pool-full of competition awaits the Davidson swimmers as they prepare to meet The Citadel, considered by Coach Shoe to be the conference’s best. The meet will take place in The Citadel’s pool. The ‘Cats’ record so far this season is a respectable 2-2. In the month of December they were victorious over South Carolina (58-33) and Clemson (54-47) while suffering defeat at the hands of Duke (38-55) and East Carolina (39-58). Shoe praised the team, saying that they've “looked very good” so far and have gotten “progressively better.” While the present team is “giving a good effort,” there just aren’t enough of them. But, says Shoe, “it’s always been that way.” The team is strong in the distance events and is loaded with sophomores. The following is a list of events including comments from head coach Lefty.

WHAT'S THE MATTER?

Listening to Tuesday night’s game with West Virginia over the radio, it was apparent that something was wrong. Not only that, but something has been wrong for several games. Why has Davidson’s cinderella team slowed down? When will it snap out of it?

It is difficult to play a team as good as West Virginia anywhere much less on their home court, and it is no disgrace to lose to them. But by eighteen points? And on top of that, being almost run off the court by the Mountaineer’s fast break. We would not be so concerned if this were a ’Cat basketball team of the past, after all, they were supposed to lose, weren't they? The reason that we are concerned is that we believe in the team, and know they have the potential to do great things (Not anybody can beat Duke.)

For a team made up of outstanding individual players, it seems strange that no more than one or two of them can be really hot in any given period to provide the victory. Perhaps it won’t show up, and we hope not, but the performance of the ’Cats in three of their last four games would seem to indicate that something is wrong.

One of the hotter teams in these parts lately is the University of North Carolina squad. They took a full Christmas break and came back relaxed and ready. Davidson’s team, however, played five games over the same period and had regular practices, cooping them up over the holidays. We don’t know if this is indicative in any way, but some lesson may be learned from it. Basketball players are only human and they need a break every once in a while—to forget the pressure. In any case, much of the season remains before the ’Cats, and we hope, and believe, they can snap out of this slump and show that the Duke win wasn’t a fluke.

PERSONAL AND TEAM CUMULATIVE STATISTICS TO JAN. 7, 1963

PLAYER G FGA FGM PCT. RB AVG. PTS. AVG.
Bill Jarman 11 133 59 .443 92 8.8 159 14.4
Fred Hetzel 11 286 97 .521 147 13.4 241 21.9
Terry Holland 11 83 39 .459 76 6.9 117 10.6
Don Davidson 10 84 40 .476 48 4.4 96 9.4
Barry Teague 10 62 28 .410 25 2.5 66 6.6
Charles Marcon 11 50 26 .520 17 1.5 55 5.0
Haywood Evans 10 29 15 .517 9 0.9 37 3.7
William Beerman 8 29 14 .483 11 1.4 32 4.0
Daniel Carrell 5 5 2 .400 1 0.2 4 0.8
Paul Briggs 3 7 2 .286 1 0.3 6 2.0
Tommy White 6 1 0 .000 4 0.7 2 0.3

Davidson's Totals 11 671 319 47.5 490 44.5 813 73.9
Opponents’ Totals 11 668 280 41.9 388 35.3 715 65.0

FURMAN CHANGES PROGRAM

A recent editorial in THE DAVIDSONIAN pointed out the dilemma of small colleges like Davidson in attempting to maintain reasonably good football teams. The editorial presented the problem as insolvable. Perhaps it is. Let’s look at the case of Furman.

Furman, a fellow member of the Southern Conference, has a total enrollment somewhat larger than that of Davidson, but they share many of the same difficulties and pressures that we do in building and keeping good teams. Several years ago, Furman decided, under certain pressures, to greatly increase the number of scholarships that they offered, in an attempt to develop a “winning” athletic program. Most sports at Furman received some support from this program. Football scholarships were increased, basketball scholarships increased, and aid was even given to the cross-country team.

What has been the result of this program? It fared not as well as its planners hoped. Furman’s football teams had some moments of glory, but they were never able to challenge any of the bigger powers, even in South Carolina. Last year, Furman stopped giving both tennis and cross-country scholarships. Just before Christmas, Furman University officials announced the abandonment of their old program of scholarships, and the adoption of a grant-in-aid plan for scholarships on a one-year trial basis. Rising costs and dwindling receipts were cited as reasons for the move. This new plan stipulates that prospective athletes will be screened to determine whether they are academically qualified, then the prospect’s financial need will be studied. Aid will be awarded commensurate with need. This aid will be in the form of scholarships, loans, or jobs—not to exceed tuition, room, and board.

This plan, if it works, will by no means solve all of Furman’s problems. They still want to have good teams, but now that will be even more difficult. They will undoubtedly incur greater recruiting problems. No, Furman’s problems aren't over, but they have decided that they had to do something to get out of the expensive rat-race that they found themselves in. We commend Furman for trying to face a difficult problem fairly and reasonably. As for Davidson, we suggest a look at Furman’s present problems before we ever seriously consider a major change in our athletic program.

This was the second conference loss in a row suffered by the ’Cats, who now have a 3-2 conference record. The only bright spots in the game were the shooting of Bill Jarman who tallied 27, and Terry Holland, adding 19 more. Leroy Peacock led the Paladin attack with 27 points.The men that participate in each: 400 yd. medley relay (butterfly, backstroke, breaststroke, and freestyle); 200 yd. freestyle: Jim Gray, Carter Mebane; 50 yd. freestyle: Dan Campbell, Jack Hollenbeck; 200 yd. individual medley: Smith McKeithen; diving: Chip Derrick, Dick Froman, Bill Jacobs; 200 yd. butterfly: McKeithen; 100 yd. freestyle: Hollenbeck and Mebane; 200 yd. backstroke: John Alexander; 500 yd. freestyle: David Grant, Jim Gray; 200 yd. breaststroke: Bud Fry, Wes Trescott; 400 yd. freestyle relay: Campbell, Gray, Hollenbeck, Mebane. Coach Shoe feels the team should be “able to hold its own” the rest of the season if they can round into good shape this month. Prospects look good for next year, with many sophomores and five good freshmen this year and Captain Carter Mebane the only senior.

BY JOHNNY CLARK
Sports Staff Writer

Bolstered by Terry Holland's cool clutch playing, Davidson's erratic Wildcats overcame a 7-point deficit in the last two minutes of the contest with William and Mary on January 2, and came back to whip the Indians 73-70 in overtime. Holland’s performance in this game won him this week’s Wildcat of the Week honor. The 6-7 forward calmly sank two free throws to knot the score 63-63 with 25 seconds remaining and added 4 free throws in the extra margin. His aggressive play in the front court kept Davidson in the game. He grabbed 11 rebounds and netted 18 points during the contest. “He played real well the entire game and really came through for us in the clutch,” said Driesell on his pupil. As center Fred Hetzel narrowed a field goal with 1:50 left, he was fouled. Holland tapped in Hetzel’s missed free throw, keying the Wildcats’ rally which eventually brought them victory.

In Davidson’s 89-73 loss to West Virginia Tuesday night, Holland was the only bright spot, scoring 22 points and grabbing 12 rebounds while playing the entire game without substitution. Driesell calls Holland’s performance against the Mountaineers “his best game of the year.” An All-Stater in high school at Clinton, North Carolina, the 20-year-old junior received honorable mention in the All-Southern Conference team selections last year. One of the team’s most consistent players, Holland leads the Wildcats in free throw percentage with a 77.6% average, is second in field goal percentage with 44.7%, and ranks third in scoring with 11.6 points per game.

After Christmas vacation on January 2, Davidson beat William and Mary here in an overtime thriller 73-70. The ‘Cats fought from a nine-point deficit with about five minutes remaining in the game to tie the contest 63-63 at the end of regulation play. High-scorers for Davidson were Hetzel and Holland with 18 points apiece. Last Saturday, East Carolina journeyed here to play the Wildcats. Davidson pulled away from a scant 33-31 halftime advantage to down E.C. 71-61. Again, Fred Hetzel was top scorer with 29 points, matching his previous career high against Wofford. On Tuesday, the ’Cats met defeat for the fourth time this season when they traveled to Morgantown, West Virginia, to play the Mountaineers of West Virginia University. Led by All-American Rod Thorn’s 28 points, the Mountaineers defeated the ‘Cats 89-73. High for Davidson were Holland with 22 points and Hetzel with 20. Coach Driesell summed up the game when he said, “They out-hustled us. When they got that fast break working, they killed us.” The 'Cats’ record is now 8-5. Four of these losses came to teams that are mentioned among the best in the nation. Three are in the top ten. Coach Lefty Driesell seems to have summed up this team’s efforts as well as anyone when he said, “We've got nothing to be ashamed of.”

Front Row L-R—Greg Ruth (NYAC), Ron Finley (Oregon St.), Bill Riddle (Hazel Park), Andy Fitch (NYAC). Back Row L-R—Charlie Parker (Coach), Joe James (Oklahoma St.), Dan Brand (Olympic Club), Jim Ferguson (Olympic Club), Dennis Fitzgerald (Hazel Park), Manual Gorriaran (Providence, R.I., Manager).

Coach Parker Chosen for Pan-Am Team
By TOM WRIGHT
Sports Staff Writer

While attending a meeting of the Olympic Committee in Detroit on the 28th of last November, Charlie Parker, Davidson wrestling coach, was informed that he had been selected by fellow coaches to head this year’s United States wrestling team in the Pan-American Games. This is the highest honor that a wrestling coach can earn in this non-Olympic year. A coach is only eligible to be chosen once. Parker is the only wrestling coach from this area of the country who has ever been so honored. He was chosen over several hundred coaches across the country. During the recent Christmas holidays, tryouts for the Pan-Am games were held, and out of a field of 122 of the nation’s top wrestlers, eight were chosen for the team. Parker watched the three-day tryouts and feels that the final eight men constitute “probably the best wrestling team ever assembled in the United States.” The selection is not the only feather in Parker's cap, though it is certainly the finest. As a senior on the 1938 Davidson wrestling team, he finished three years of wrestling with only two defeats. After coaching for one year, he declined an offer to prepare for entering into law practice with his uncle to continue coaching. In 1956, he was elected to membership on the Olympic Committee. This summer, he attended the World Championship Tournament in Toledo in which 87 nations competed, and while there, he was one of the six out of thirteen coaches successful in completing the requirements necessary to become certified as an international wrestling official. The Pan American Games are conducted every 4 years, one year prior to the Olympics. Parker hopes to bring the U.S. team to Davidson for one week of training in early April, then he will leave for Brazil. The Games will be held in Sao Paulo, Brazil, from April 20 to May 5. Parker may or may not return with a victory, but he will return to Davidson having fulfilled a capacity few coaches can hope to attain.

Grapplers Seek Win Over Citadel
Tomorrow afternoon, Coach Charlie Parker’s high-flying matmen take on an undefeated Citadel squad in the ‘Cats’ toughest test of the season. The match will be held in Johnston Gymnasium at 2 p.m. So far this season, the Bulldog grapplers have chalked up wins over the University of North Carolina and Duke. They downed Carolina by the impressive score of 28-3. In their first home contest of the season, the ’Cats will be seeking revenge for the 26-6 loss that The Citadel inflicted on them last year. The Bulldogs graduated only two men off of their last season’s squad, All-Conference Jeff Hartsell and Jim Reiney, and the ’Cats have most of last year’s team, plus the addition of sophomores Joe Parker and Mike Bisard. Coach Charlie Parker, commenting on the match, said, “It will be a very tough meet for us, but I think we can win it.” Last night, the ‘Cat matmen defeated Duke 24-5 in a match held in Gastonia. This was a decisive victory since last year the ’Cats were only able to slip by the Blue Devils, 14-12. The lineup for The Citadel match will be the same as for the Duke match. The next competition for the grapplers will be on the Saturday following semester break, when they meet Emory University here.

TERRY HOLLAND reaches high into the air to score in the William and Mary game. HOLLAND scored eighteen points in the contest. (Staff Photo by JOE McCUTCHEN)

Winter Clearance Sale Still In Progress
Big Reductions
Rush Wilson Ltd.

BETWEEN BITES...
new feeling
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina