PAGE FOUR

BY PETE BONDANELLA
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes, chairman of the first-year Humanities program, in an interview this week concerning the success and future
of Humanities, said that the general plan and procedure have proved to be a sound basis on which to build
such an integrated course of study. Rhodes did, however, make the observation that it is still too early to make
a valued judgment on the worth of the entire plan.

Rhodes, Students Make Humanities Evaluation

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Episcopal Bishop To Speak Sunday

The Rev. Thomas Fraser, Jr., Bishop Coadjutor of the Diocese of North Carolina, will conduct this Sunday the last vesper
service before Easter. Prior to his election to the episcopate, Fraser had served as rector of St. Paul's Church, Winston-Salem
from 1951. Born in Atlanta, Ga., Fraser received his BA degree from Hobart College in 1938 and his BD degree
from the Virginia Theological Seminary in 1942.

“The freshman and sophomore history, religion, and English courses are just as good as ever and have not failed in
their mission.” Opinions of both the faculty and the students in the course are still only tentative, since the real
value of the program can only be found after the entire course has been completed. Most freshmen in the program,
it seems, agree with Rhodes in these respects. In a sample poll of students, everyone said that the program had
progressed about as well as could be expected. The point that most agreed on was that the course should extend
no more than two years.

Rhodes outlined briefly the second-year program and made a few general observations about it. The faculty group teaching this course
of study during the sophomore year has been working since last summer to prepare for the first classes in the
fall. The syllabus of this year’s work will not be quite as detailed and will not contain as many directed
questions, since a year's experience will enable next year’s students to be more in control of the reading materials. The
basic aims and principles governing the second part of the course will remain the same, however, and similar but not
duplicating patterns of study will be used. The emphasis will be placed on Europe and North America from the Renaissance
to the beginning of the twentieth century, with particular stress on the political, historical, religious, philosophical, scientific, and literary trends
of the period.

“A hard two and one-half year’s work,” said Rhodes, has kept the revisions and mistakes in the program to a
bare minimum. He feels the professors teaching in this new department have worked as hard or even harder than the
students, for they are constantly meeting to revise the lectures and discussions in such a way that will keep the
course alive and meaningful to the students. Rhodes promised that this constant revision on the basis of experience would continue
as long as the program remains in effect.

The freshmen who were polled claimed that one problem was “getting to know” the different professors. Each professor's grading system,
his method of discussion, and his knowledge of the topic are all different; but they are important to know in
order to profit from the discussion groups. Some students disagreed as to the value of the program compared to the
other basic freshmen courses. One student claimed the work was much heavier and more detailed than the freshman English and
Bible courses. On the other hand, it was pointed out, writing only one term paper and several themes was like
taking just one course.

Rhodes said it is his own personal opinion that the Humanities program should be left as an option for entering
freshmen. Of the students polled, the overall opinion was without much criticism. They were reluctant to suggest any major changes
and felt better able to be the “guinea pigs” now for the second-year course.

Rhodes summarized his discussion of the entire program by noting the position of the Humanities course in the Davidson liberal
arts tradition. “It is an error to suppose that this course is the only means of getting a liberal education,”
said Rhodes.

Fine Arts Festival Schedules Talent

The theme for the 16th annual Fine Arts Festival, which will begin April 8, is “The Interrelation of the Arts.”
Professors Frank Engle and Charles O. Delaney will be on campus in connection with the festival. Engle, a professor of
fine arts from the University of Alabama, will arrive Monday, April 8. Bringing paintings, sculpture, drawings, and ceramics for exhibition
here, he will speak on “The Dichotomy of Art” at noon Monday to the art classes. He will also be
present at an informal studio party in Hodson Hall, where he will speak on “What the Artist Finds Meaningful.”

Delaney will arrive Thursday, April 11. A Davidson graduate, he is on the music faculty at the University of Illinois.
Delaney will show the inter-relation of photography, music, and poetry by presenting a program of slides of the Georgia marshes,
accompanied by his own musical composition, both of which were suggested by the poetry of Sidney Lanier. Student activities in
the areas of art, music, and scenery in student plays will be judged, and prizes will be awarded. Also, a
musical program with Dr. Grier Williams and the Wind Ensemble is planned.

Phi Eta Chooses Twelve New Frosh

Dr. R. B. Jackson, faculty advisor of Phi Eta Sigma, announced this week that 12 freshmen have accepted invitations to
join the fraternity. To be initiated late this semester are Pete Bondanella, Jayne Mansfield Potential Party Partners

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

A pie will fly, and Dean Burts will be covered with custard. Does this sound like a fanciful dream out
of the pages of Scripts and Pranks? Or does the fact Jayne Mansfield may appear at Davidson seem like a
page from the history of Wake Forest? Queens students will present the best 45 minutes of their Freshman Follies. Cole
felt that if a big crowd turned out for the fun, the spring party could become an annual event.

WBTV Schedules Synod Programs

WBTV, Channel 3 in Charlotte, will present the first in a series of three programs produced by the North Carolina
Synod of the Presbyterian Church, tomorrow evening at 7. “Prologue” tomorrow night will be followed by “Let Learning Be Cherished”
in April and “Turning Point” in October. The second show of the series of half-hour programs, concentrating on higher education,
will devote much of its footage to films made last fall on the Davidson campus. Dean of Faculty Frontis W.
Johnston and Dr. Chalmers Davidson are members of the N.C. Synod committee that originated and sponsored this “Project 150” series
as part of the 1963 sesquicentennial celebration of the Synod.

Drummer John Paul Causey, however, was not content to trust the unreliable peons and carried a bit of auxiliary equipment
... The wargods tamed the weather but were tal ra A Winners... Lap 2! FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1963 —— unsuccessful
in attempts to frighten away hecklers who were led by an unidentified townie (thought to have been associated with a
local nepotically-inclined bastard publication). (Staff photos by McCutchen)

Forest? Well, both of these events will occur a week from tonight beginning at 8 p.m. if Union President Ben
Cole has his way. This is the night of the Union’s first spring party, which will feature a pie-throwing contest
and perhaps Miss Mansfield, who has been invited. The gala affair will have the atmosphere of a carnival, with plenty
of decorations, contests, and prizes ranging from packs of cigarettes to hardbound books, record albums, and teddy bears. And the
best part of it all will be a chance to hit the dean of students (in fun, of course) and
other faculty members with cream-of-tartar pies. An entire room will be reserved for the pie-throwing, and it will be actually
more of a show than a contest. Anyone may enter the room where the drama takes place for a mere
penny and may throw three pies for a dime at whoever happens to be the unlucky target of wrath at
a particular time. There will be at least six different targets in the room during the party, which lasts until
12 p.m. Definite ones that have already agreed to the pie massacre include, in addition to Dean Burts, Dr. Sam
Maloney, Chaplain Will Terry, and a surprise guest who will have no choice but to pose for the throwers. But
in case anyone is anticipating too pleasant an evening watching hated professors or despised colleagues get plastered by pies, there
is a slight catch which deserves to be mentioned. After the room is filled with spectators, four names will be
drawn from among them who must also pose as targets for the hurlers. Girls and professors who have stepped in
to watch the fun will not be excluded from becoming a possible target.

There is a chance that students will miss the sexy Jayne Mansfield, however. Cole stressed the fact that even though
a letter had been sent to her it was unlikely she would come. But if sex from one direction fails,
there is a hope for sex from another. Cole said that he had been thinking about the idea of installing
a kissing booth to go along with the other activities, with material provided from Queens. It is partly their party
anyway, since each Davidson worker on the activities has a Queens’ counterpart. Cole was not sure as of last Wednesday,
however, if such a booth could be installed. “We like to call it a penny carnival,” he said, “but we
don’t want someone to drop down a dollar and monopolize all the kisses for an hour.” A combo will play
for the entire evening in the basement of the Union. And some of the annual affair just like the Christmas
party.

After Vespers Open House
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Cole
Lester
Purcell
Sailstad
Allen
Eubank
Goodykoontz
Meeks
Ghigo
Mrs. Moore
White, H. E.
Hampton
Pinkerton
Winkler

LIEUTENANT BOB AKAM, B.S. IN AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
“If I had it to do over again, would I take Army R.O.T.C.? Look at it this way. I like
the idea of doing challenging work. That’s why I volunteered for Special Forces. So you can see why I felt
pretty good when the Army assigned me to Europe! Here I really feel I’m doing something for the cause of
my country in these important times. How many jobs can you think of that start you off with this kind
of responsibility? My wife’s here, too, and she loves it. We get a chance to travel. We meet the people,
learn new languages, customs. And there’s a pretty active social life on post, too. But above all, I’m an officer
with a job to do and with responsibilities to shoulder. I like it that way, and I have a hunch
that my leadership training and experience will help me out whatever I do. Take it from me, if you’re already
halfway towards your commission, see it through. It’s a good deal. I know.”

GRAND PRIX 50 Sweepstakes for colleges only
More than 50 times the chance to win than if open to the general public. Get set for the last
lap... 20 more Tempests and 25 more Consolation Prizes! Of course, entries you've already submitted are still in the running—but
enter again and improve your odds! And, if you haven't entered yet, NOW’S THE TIME! All entries received before March
29th will be eligible to win one of the 20 Tempests to be awarded in Lap 4! So pick up
an entry blank where you buy your cigarettes... today!

EXCLUSIVE FOR THE GIRLS! If you win a Tempest you may choose instead a thrilling expense-paid 2-week Holiday in Europe—for
two! Plus $500 in cash!

IMPORTANT! If you hold any of the 15 winning numbers, claim your Pontiac Tempest LeMans Convertible in accordance with the
rules on the reverse of your license plate. All claims for Tempests and Consolation Prizes must be sent via registered
mail, postmarked by March 23, 1963 and received by the judges no later than March 25, 1963.

WINNING NUMBERS
1. A486272
2. C356696
3. A062375
4. C6284980
5. B797116
6. 8304290
7. A622200
8. A000831
9. C050080
10. B711674
11. C426799
12. A441627
13. C741245
14. B443384
15. B597516

CONSOLATION PRIZE NUMBERS
1. B856122
2. C389461
3. C669684
4. A790901
5. A537928
6. B850711
7. C470883
8. C688608
9. B763706
10. B468628
11. D801552
12. B784902
13. A151426
14. A176099
15. B429006
16. C075585
17. A975027
18. B315344
19. A766043
20. C031599

Get with THE Muinacie vip. LF a ye Ve em OT 9 arn va FiLTerRs UGCett a mavens tosacco co,
_. far ahead in smoking satisfaction! O88 THE PONTIAC TEMPEOT AT VOUR NBARBY PONTIAC DEALER!
