‘A GOOD RACKET FOR A BIG HAUL (See Page Two) VOL. LII

Those careless days of summer vacation may be different next year. The Student Council is seriously considering a proposal for
required reading lists over the summer. This idea, which would include the entire student body, would require each student to
read a certain number of specified books during the summer and take a test on them in the early fall.

While many students already attending Davidson have had experience with such a system of parallel reading as is being proposed,
the entire concept would be novel to this college. The institution would have its disadvantages as well as its advantages,
according to the Student Council. The intended purpose would be to broaden the individual student's knowledge by smoothing out the
rough edges in his education. The idea would be to fill in the gaps in each student's studies. While diversification
would be one aim, no one would be assigned books totally unrelated to his interests; for example, a pre-medical major
might be required to read books concerning the history of medicine or philosophy’s relation to medicine. The mathematics major might
be assigned books on the sciences or perhaps business. While the reading would undoubtedly develop into a problem for some,
there would be a certain number who would greatly benefit from the idea.

John Spratt, president of the Student Council, proposed a reading period prior to exams. Though the idea would be completely
new to the Davidson campus, it is as old as Harvard, Princeton and Yale. The proposal would remain fairly conservative—and
would involve sacrifice by students as well as faculty. Spratt proposed the faculty agree not to hold classes three days
before the examination period in exchange for the students’ giving up one day of their Christmas holidays. The purpose of
the reading period would be to give the student time to draw his ideas together and to avoid confusion before
the exam. In addition, he would be better able to grasp the entire gist of each course, according to Spratt.

An alternative to the reading period was also discussed. The proposed idea was to have a period before exams during
which professors would not give tests, thus allowing the student to better focus his attention to the entire course rather
than to the recently covered part of the course.

Union To Sponsor Post-Game Party

The College Union will sponsor another open house and combo party immediately following tomorrow’s Davidson-VMI football game with music provided
by the “Swinging Five.” After the combo party a buffet supper will be served in the Morrison Room of the
Union. The serving will wind up in time for the Josh White concert tomorrow night. The supper will be open
to all students with or without dates. Staff Warren was optimistic after the big attendance at last week’s open house
and expressed the hope that the same reception would be given future Union plans.

On Saturday, Oct. 12, the College Union will co-sponsor with Queens College a concert and dance in honor of the
Queens-Davidson classes of ‘67. All the upperclassmen from both schools are invited. The joint concert will feature folk singers Brown
and Dana, a local group on the way up, in the Queens auditorium. Following the concert, the combo will begin
in the Queens gym at 9. Music will be provided by Davidson’s own Sidney Farrar and group for one hour.
They will be followed by the Continentals who will play until breakfast. Since girls may receive “late permission” from Queens,
breakfast will be served in the sorority houses at 12:30.

Ten members of the Class of 1967 were called before the Freshman Court Tuesday night in the first disciplinary action
taken against violators of the Freshman Regulations. More than 30 names have been reported so far; however, only the 10
worst violators were summoned before the court this week, according to Chairman Tommy Stafford. The freshmen were found guilty and
were placed on “work details” according to the seriousness of the offense. Other information, including the names of the violators,
was not announced by the court.

In an interview this week, Stafford appealed for upperclassmen to show a greater awareness of the regulations. “It seems the
student body is apathetic to the regulations as it is to most other things around here,” said Stafford who is
also Freshman Advisor. “Since most people don't seem to be showing any interest, the freshmen feel that there’s no use
to wear the beanies and name tags and all,” continued Stafford. “Everybody just seems to be kind of lackadaisical about
it all,” stated Tiff Harrington, a sophomore member of the court, as he pretty well summarized the feelings of most
upperclassmen.

According to Stafford, the names of violators can be given to any member of the Freshman Court. Besides Stafford and
Harrington, the members are Jerry Trammell, Dave Lopp, Tom Whitley, Will Jackson and Dave Hardeman. Stafford also announced that freshman
hall representatives have been elected. Each freshman hall elects two students as members of the Freshman Council. He plans to
call the group together within the next week, so that plans can be started for Freshman Parents Day, which is
sponsored annually by the Freshman Council. Parents Day is scheduled this year for Oct. 19. Hardeman is chairman of the
Freshman-Sophomore Field Day, which is tentatively scheduled for sometime in the week of Oct. 21. If the freshmen win the
field day, they will no longer be subject to the Freshman Regulations. Otherwise, the regulations will be in effect until
Thanksgiving.

No More Phones, Vending Machines In Dorms

BY EDWARD OWELLE

Rolling back in her well-used wooden office chair, Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories, glanced over her glasses and
down her nose at this reporter and gave her motherly look, saying, “I think the boys know that I am
extremely interested in their welfare and will continue to try to supply proper conveniences for their needs and desires.” While
boys interrupted to inquire about such various matters as where they could keep a date this weekend or obtain an
extra wardrobe or bed board, she reported on the telephone situation around school.

Three new phones were installed in the dorms last year—one each in East, Cannon and on the third floor of
Richardson—making a total of 14 in the dorms in addition to the two on the second floor of the College
Union. She explained that the school has to pay Southern Bell Telephone Co. to install the phones and must make
up the deficit in the minimum annual rate set by the company if the phones are not used enough by
the students. Most of the time the phones are not used enough to meet the minimum rate.

Josh White is the featured performer this weekend in the first of the Interfraternity Council sponsored concert weekends. The folk
music concert will be held in Chambers Auditorium at 8 tomorrow evening. It was announced that this year Independents would
need tickets to be admitted to the concerts. Tickets are on sale to Independents at a price that will save
them money if they buy a ticket which is good for the whole year. Tickets will also be available for
each individual concert. It was pointed out that the new ruling is merely a means of enforcing a section in
the IFC regulations.

In other business, the IFC proposed a joint alumni-student picnic on Homecoming Weekend with the understanding that it would be
taken to the various fraternities, discussed, and then decided upon at the next meeting. The plan would be to have
a buffet style picnic in the center of Patterson Fraternity Court. The installation of alumni officers could be made more
interesting by cutting it short enough to allow time for the choice of a Homecoming Queen from a group composed
of a representative from each of the 12 fraternities and the Lingle Manor Group. The main advantage of the outing
would be student-alumni contact.

John Spratt announced plans for Wednesday night visitation by the Richardson Scholars at the various fraternity houses. Under the present
system, the scholars are assigned to a particular house and are not given a good opportunity to make contacts outside
these houses. With the new system, they would rotate and visit a different house on Wednesday at the evening meal
and afterward. The IFC passed this proposal unanimously.

Dave Olin informed the council of the curfew on dates at the fraternity houses this weekend. The times to evacuate
dates will be midnight on Friday and by 3 a.m. Sunday morning.

When asked his feelings concerning his appointment to the Faculty Fraternity Committee, Haynes Kelly said he thought it was a
good thing to have some student opinion within the group. He appreciated the fact that the committee had taken interest
enough to ask for and respect a student's viewpoint.

E PLURIBUS UNUM — “One out of many” may be the thought of freshman Humanities student Charles Elliott as he
studies one of the required texts for the course. Beside Elliott is a stack of other books required for the
freshman course for the first semester. (Staff Photo by Sam Smith)

Second-Year Humanities Gives ‘Deals,’ Students Say

BY BRITT SNIDER AND JOHNNY CLARK

“They’re giving us ‘deals’ this year,” said second-year Humanities student Tim even though he is a non-voting member.Craig, in comparing
the sophomore and freshman programs, and humanitarian Craig, a member of the group, felt he is not alone in his
opinion: the general consensus of second-year students is that indeed they are getting “deals” this year. But what are the
changes that have been made, and why were they made? Dr. Bradley Thompson, history professor and chairman of the second-year
program, said, “No change in the philosophy of the course has been made—only in the mechanics.” Perhaps the most significant
of these mechanical changes is the requirement of four 1000-word essays, instead of the seven 500-word themes and one 2500-word
term paper required last year. Thompson states that this was done because the composition requirement of English 11 was satisfied
in Humanities 11-12; in the second-year program, the composition requirement should reach for greater depth as found in English 21-22.
Sophomore Rufus Adair typified the student reaction: “The change eliminates the drudgery of a term paper each semester and allows
much better development than was allowed on the shorter themes. You can explore deeply four subjects each semester this year
rather than the one covered by the term paper last year.”

Two changes have been made in the format of the discussion groups. Questions which were included in the first-year syllabus
to help guide the discussions have been eliminated by the second-year staff. Discussion leaders will guide their respective groups for
an entire semester, instead of changing groups on a quarterly basis as was done last year. “The questions forced the
students’ minds into the narrow confines of the particulars brought out in them, more than they aided him in extracting
an understanding of the work as a whole,” said Chip Sanders, a second-year student, in evaluating the changes. “I feel,
too, that the discussion groups will function better as the semester progresses and not be hampered by a mid-semester change
in professors and discussion format.” “No conscious efforts were made by this year’s staff," said Dr. Thompson, “to make the
program any easier—with the exception of omitting class a day before each review to provide more time for study.”

The general attitude of the sophomore students seems to be more favorable to the second-year program than to the first-year
program. One said he feels the material is more interesting and the scheduling more reasonable. Dr. Dan Rhodes, chairman of
the first-year staff, expressed general satisfaction with the freshman program as a whole: “We don’t think we have all the
answers yet, and we're willing to change, though we believe that the overall pattern is good.” Theme writing is also
a major change in the first-year program. Twelve themes are required first semester, and the term paper has been eliminated.
Second semester term papers will be written on topics from both semesters. “Several considerations are responsible for this change,” said
Rhodes. “We are not sure that the freshmen are prepared to write a good term paper during their first semester.
Also, basic library material for good papers is limited, and because of this limitation and necessary time limitations, the number
of students writing on a particular subject had to be limited last year. Last year’s Humanities program, being the first,
was experimental and we believe that there is value in continuing several kinds of experiments,” stated Rhodes. Dr. George Labban
will lead one discussion an entire semester, while students in the other five groups will change professors at mid-semester. Next
term, Labban will take a new group. “The change here is minor,” related Rhodes, “but we want to see whether
or not they make any difference. Dr. Labban will have the authority to set review dates and require papers at
times other than those conformed to by the rest of the group. Also, he will make out his own reviews
while the other professors will use a common review. We want to see if students profit more from having the
same professor for a semester and whether each professor making out tests would have any significance on grades.”

Many students have pointed out faults in the Humanities program, although they seem to be outweighed in the majority opinion
by the assets of the program. “Many of the reading assignments are unreasonably long and dull,” commented one anonymous student,
“and several questions on the exams last year seemed entirely irrelevant. The professors don’t seem to make allowance for the
fact that Humanities students do have other courses that need attention.” In addition, many students have complained of the necessity
of buying $58 worth of paperbacks for the sophomore course. Dick Hicks commented, “This is too much of a financial
burden for the student. The college should have bought some of them and put them in the library reserve room.”

Freshman Campus Rioting Gains Increasing Concern
BY JOE DAVIS

The Student Council, Honor Court, and the college administration are becoming increasingly concerned about freshmen riots on campus. After the
enthusiastic pep rally last Friday, rumors circulated that freshmen were planning a riot. John Spratt, president of the Student Council,
said that he had heard the rumors and found them to be true. Spratt explained that the freshmen had planned
a “beanie burning” at midnight and then a “raid on Belk.” Spratt and Howard Arbuckle, chairman of the Honor Court,
took immediate action to prevent any violence. Their strategy was to break up the riot where it started, with certain
individuals in the dorms. With the aid of the Honor Court and Student Council members and the hall counselors, Spratt
and Arbuckle were able to prevent the massing of the freshmen and a subsequent riot.

The causes of the riots seem to lead to the upperclassmen. When questioned as to the cause of the riots,
a freshman answered, “When we first came to Davidson, the upperclassmen began to tell us of past riots and tradition
which we must uphold.” Arbuckle said that definite action would be taken against upperclassmen who were stirring up trouble. “One
big blast would be good, but now they've had too many, and we’re required to take preventive action.” Arbuckle also
warned the freshmen about using abusive language between the dorms at night. The alumni were here last weekend and he
said that the freshmen were asking for trouble. Spratt said that the Student Council and the Honor Court were not
opposed to having fun and allowing the freshmen to blow off a little steam. The danger lies in the chances
of a serious accident as a result of the riots. He also pointed out that the damage to school property
could not be permitted. Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories, agreed with Spratt and Arbuckle in the fact that
personal injury and property damage must be prevented. She wished that other outlets for the exercise of spirit could be
found. She was glad to see the students disciplining themselves as they did last Friday. Spratt has talked with Mrs.
Moore and Dean of Students Richard C. Burts about finding something to replace the void left by prohibiting riots. He
said, “I realize that the ban on riots possibly can stifle freshman spirit, and I'm open to any sensible alternatives.”

COUNT PRESENT LUXURIES

The school has to pay. “What with a call to Queens only costing a dime and the fact that most
of the boys call home collect, I'm surprised that the company stays in the black as far as the students
are concerned. Fifteen boys can talk as long as they wish for a dime and frequently do!” Mrs. Moore added
that there are two phones for 8 residents in Duke and that there were almost as many people on one
floor of Belk as there were in all of Duke. “The school doesn’t plan to add any more phones; there
is too much damage to the existing ones. Cords have been cut and windows in the booths broken. The students
want more phones and yet don’t take care of the ones they have. Moreover, I think that the three new
phones have relieved the pressure; and if anyone needs a phone, he finds one without too much trouble.” As far
as more vending machines in the dorms, Mrs. Moore explained that there isn't enough room for any more than there
are at present. Machines are located in Belk and Cannon. The actual cost (four apiece), the requirement of four 1000-word
essays, instead of the seven 500-word themes and one 2500-word term paper required last year. Thompson states that this was
done because the composition requirement of English 11 was satisfied in Humanities 11-12; in the second-year program, the composition requirement
should reach for greater depth as found in English 21-22. Sophomore Rufus Adair typified the student reaction: “The change eliminates
the drudgery of a term paper each semester and allows much better development than was allowed on the shorter themes.
You can explore deeply four subjects each semester this year rather than the one covered by the term paper last
year.”

An innovation this year is the placing of an iron and ironing board in each of the dorms except Duke.
The items are available from the janitor while he is on duty. Mrs. Moore has provided them on a trial
basis to see if the students want to use them. Mrs. Moore uttered her standard plea for the care of
all of these conveniences: “Realizing that this is home at present, I try to make it comfortable. I would appreciate
each boy doing his share in keeping up these things. We must remember that there are so many more conveniences
now than ever before.”

Student Directory Coming This Month

Bigger print, better arrangement and greater accuracy will mark this year's student directory, according to Keith McMullen, president of Alpha
Phi Omega, service fraternity. The directory will be distributed this month throughout the student body. APO, affiliated with the Boy
Scouts of America, has published a directory the past two years. Last year the YMCA gave APO responsibility for a
program of recreation for young children in Cornelius. McMullen called the project “our big gun” for this semester. Details of
the program have not yet been released. APO renders other services each year. They usher for programs in the Artist
Series and guide campus tours for visiting groups or prospective students. They assist infirmary patients by bringing them mail and
books and provide a babysitting service. The Davidson chapter was chartered in the spring of 1962. At present, there are
30 members and five pledges. Glenn Haynes, third vice president and rush chairman, plans informal rush to take place during
the first semester. He advises interested students to contact him and to attend open meetings. Besides McMullen and Haynes, the
other officers for this year are Tommy Stafford, first vice president; Hoyle Setzer, second vice president; Gary Morrow, recording secretary;
Frank
