FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1963

THE DAVIDSONIAN

HIGHLIGHTS AND SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

HETZEL LEADS BALLOTING

Basketballers High Hopes Go To Conference Meet:

BY JOHNNY CLARK
Sports Staff Writer

Carrying an 18-6 won-lost record, the best in Davidson's basketball history, into the Southern Conference tournament, the Davidson Wildcats met the Keydets of VMI yesterday afternoon in the first round of tournament action.

How would you like to be a sophomore ballplayer on the 1963 All-Southern Conference team? That's the problem Fred Hetzel has had since Wednesday when the conference team was announced, and it turned out that he beat three-time All-Conference Senior Bill Jarman, playing his last game on the hardwood of Johnston gymnasium, was at his best, scoring 21 points, grabbing 13 rebounds, and making innumerable assists. The Wildcats’ future All-American, 6-8 sophomore Fred Hetzel, played his usual outstanding game at center with 22 points and a phenomenal 25 rebounds. Terry Holland added 20 points, and Charlie Marcon came in to score 11, all in the last three minutes. Playmaker Barry Teague and defense ace Don Davidson combined to frustrate the soldier boys from Charleston in the backcourt.

Thursday afternoon Coach “Lefty” Driesell’s hot shooting ‘Cats romped past VMI 108-71 in a game that was decided in the first half. Tonight they meet VPI’s Gobblers who were able to squeak by William and Mary and move to the semi-final round. Also playing tonight will be West Virginia, who had no trouble handling Richmond last night, and Furman, who topped George Washington by three points yesterday afternoon.

All Davidson games are being televised by WBT-TV in Charlotte.

Coach Lefty Driesell’s roundballers finished their regular season in fine style Saturday night, fashioning a 99-71 victory over an outclassed pack of Bulldogs from The Citadel. The Wildcats scored the first 10 points of the game and never left the outcome in doubt. Sixteen points from forward Terry Holland paved the way to a 47-24 halftime lead. After intermission Driesell substituted freely, using all eleven of his players and still outscored the Cadets 52-37.

For Davidson fans the 1962-63 season was a year to remember. The ‘Cats set a team scoring record of 115 points (against New Hampshire), won 7 of 8 games decided by 3 points or less, defeated their Baptist rivals from Wake Forest 90-75, remained undefeated in Johnston gymnasium, beat the nation’s second-ranked team (Duke), and finished second in the conference regular season standings, the highest place ever attained by a Davidson team.

Fred Hetzel's first season of varsity competition was a year to note. He became hailed as one of the best sophomores in the country, ranking fifteenth nationally in scoring with 23.2 points per game, and eighteenth in rebounds with 325 and a 23.2 per game average. He set a school record of points scored in a single game when he scored 46 against Jacksonville University, his scoring average won him the conference scoring crown, and he led the team in field goal percentage with 53.5% for the season and in free throw accuracy, making good 78.2% of his charity tosses.

Team captain Bill Jarman proved to be the team’s clutch player while averaging 16.4 points, hitting half of his field goals, and averaging 93 rebounds.

FINAL CONFERENCE STANDINGS

Conference All Games
W L W L Pct.
West Virginia 11 2 18 7 .720
Davidson 8 3 18 6 .750
W. & Mary 10 5 15 8 .652
Furman 9 6 13 13 .500
Geo. Wash. 6 6 8 14 .500
Virginia T. 6 6 8 14 .364
VMI 6 10 6 14 .300
Richmond 3 13 7 17 .292
Citadel 2 10 3 20 .130

Jarman Hits 30 As Deacons Fall

BY FORREST ROLES
Sports Staff Writer

“It’s a good year to be a senior,” said a jubilant Bill Jarman Wednesday a week ago. “Every year I’ve been here we've beaten an A.C.C. team for Coach, and this year we got two.” The 'Cats, led by Jarman, had just beaten Wake Forest 90-75, and there was cause to be jubilant. It was probably Jarman’s best game of the season. He hit nine of fourteen shots from the floor and connected on all twelve of his free throws for 30 points, his season high. And he had combined with Fred Hetzel and Terry Holland to command the backboards. For this he has been chosen second team All-Conference player—for the second year in a row.

It was announced this week that sophomore star Fred Hetzel has been chosen to head the 1963 edition of the All-Southern Conference team. It was the first time since 1958, when Jerry West of West Virginia and pro ball fame, that a sophomore has led the balloting. Hetzel nosed out three-time All-Conference guard Rod Thorn of West Virginia by 14 votes, 428 to 414. Other members of the first team are Howard Pardue of VPI, Jerry Smith of Furman, and Gerald Glur of Furman. This is the third year on the team for Smith and Thorn, the second for Pardue. Balloting for the honor is conducted among sports writers, sportscasters, and coaches. Five points are given for a first team ballot, three for a second team vote.

Wildcat Captain Bill Jarman headed the list of second team All-Conference players—for the second year in a row.

MOVE THE TOURNAMENT!

Mr. Lloyd Jordan, a representative of the Southern Conference, who was at the Wake Forest game in the Coliseum last week was noncommittal about his purpose for being there. He was sent by the conference to look over Charlotte and the coliseum as a prospective site to hold the Southern Conference basketball tournament next year, but we couldn’t get that impression from talking to him—he was completely closed-mouth about it. In fact, all he would talk about was the fine basketball game that the ’Cats were playing. (We had to agree with him there.) Although Jordan remained fairly closemouthed, he did give certain impressions that were favorable to getting the tourney to Charlotte next year. First, he indicated that the tourney would probably not be held at Richmond next year, and secondly, that he was very impressed with the coliseum and the crowds that we can draw there. Interest in having the tournament moved to Charlotte has been popping up in other places recently. Sports Editor Warren Koon of the Charleston, S. C., News and Courier in a column “Time to Change” says to move the tourney out of Richmond’s “cramped and musty” arena. He’s a long-time advocate of holding the tourney in Charlotte. He points out that the purpose of the tourney is to make money (which the conference sorely needs), and at Richmond they make pitifully little, with no prospects of increasing it. Refuting remarks made in Richmond papers, Koon says that contrary to what these papers would have their readers believe, Charlotte is ‘not in the hinterland, impossible to reach.” At least we know that we have another ally fighting for Charlotte at the Southern Conference meetings this year.Row. All spotlights, however, have turned towards Hetzel since his appearance in the 'Cat lineup this year. He has broken several Davidson records and has lived up to his high pre-season expectations. In addition to captaining the All-Conference, Hetzel has been named honorable mention on at least one All-American team. In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead.

For Jarman, it has been a good senior year. He is in the top ten in the conference in scoring (225). And he has again been named to the all-conference second string. Consistently accurate, Terry Holland averaged 12.1 points, hitting 52.7% of his field goal tries and bucketing 77.7% of his free throws. Scrappy Barry Teague earned the nickname “Little General” for his playmaking ability, ball-hawking Don Davidson held All-American Art Heyman, and would-be All-American Smith of Furman and Strickland of Jacksonville far below their usual point totals. Jerry Roger is becoming recognized as one of the best defensive players in the country. Charlie Marcon, Haywood Evans, and Bill Beerman, all occasional starters, combined to give the Wildcats more depth than any team in the conference except West Virginia. As a team, the Wildcats averaged 75.2 points per game and, led by their fearsome threesome of Hetzel, Jarman, and Holland in the front court, collected an average of 46.7 rebounds to their opponents’ 34.0 per game. Regardless of the team's performance in the conference tournament, this year’s Wildcat cagers will be remembered as one of Davidson’s best teams in any sport, and perhaps it will be recognized as the team that began an era of big-time basketball for the Wildcats of Davidson College.

Baseball Practice Gets An Early Start

Monday, Davidson's baseball team began regular practice. On days when the weather is bad, as in Tuesday's “snow storm,” the 'Cat stickmen are loosening their arms in the gym. Last committal when asked about his team's chances for this season: “There are two big ‘ifs’,” he said. “If the sophomore pitchers come through, and if we can find a replacement for Harry Kline behind the plate, we will have a good season.” Battling for the catcher's spot are Juniors Eddie Earle and Bob King. Earle was Kline's replacement last year but failed to show a strong bat in the few times he appeared at the plate. King has no catching experience but appears to have the tools to make a strong receiver. Leading the returning lettermen is Senior Captain Tom Tuttle at second base. Third baseman Tom Whitley and pitchers Jim Moore and Tommy Hamilton are in line for a good deal of action. Rick Smyre and Tony McNay are battling for the first base position and either Ben Goldsmith, Steve Clark, or Phil Squier should play shortstop. The outfield appears strong with L. H. Hutchins, Earl Cole, Alec Gibbs, and Carl Rust returning. Smyre and Hamilton also have outfield experience. “I just hope the weather's good,” said Stevens. “We don’t have very long to get ready for our first game.” The 'Cats open their twenty-seven game schedule against local baseball talent Pfeiffer here on March 18.

Despite all this, Jarman has had to watch his name practically erased from Davidson's record book. Sophomore Fred Hetzel has not only stolen the limelight from last year’s star but upped four of his records—total points in one game, field goal percentage, total rebounds, and rebound average. The 'Cat forward doesn't mind. It’s still a good year to be a senior and it’s still “we” who beat the A.C.C.’s two top teams. Now, Captain Bill Jarman is leading the 'Cats on the toughest assignment they’ve faced all season—the Southern Conference Tournament. “We are a team,” says Coach Lefty Driesell, “and that’s an old and trite statement. But being a coach, I know how much it means.” Bill Jarman is a team man. “You won't find a player with so much ability yet with as much humility and friendliness in the whole country,” said one of Jarman’s teammates. And it must be true.

BASEBALL COACH TOM STEPHENS warms up a little on Monday and baseball season seems just around the corner. Tuesday’s snow pulled a stop to the baseball weather, however.

BY BILL PRIDGEN Sports Editor

Coach Charlie Parker’s record-breaking matmen closed out their 1963 season with a victory against the University of Georgia last Saturday, making their season record 6-2-1, the best since 1935. On Wednesday, the grapplers journey to Morganton, W. Va., for the Southern Conference wrestling tournament which will be held on March 7-9. Parker, commenting on the tourney, said, “It'll be anybody's tournament. No one team will dominate it as they have sometimes in the past.” Parker, who had hoped that the 'Cats would be a dark horse at W. Va., has had much of his hope dimmed by injuries. He still, however, believes his squad has a chance for a second or third spot in the conference. The largest of Parker's woes is the 147 lb. spot. This spot was securely filled by sophomore Joe Parker at the beginning of the season, but an operation on Parker's ankle at Christmas put him out for the rest of the year. After that, senior Ben McCoy filled the spot, but McCoy won't be able to make the trip, so Coach Parker may not even take anyone in that weight class.

Brightening Parker's outlook, on the other hand, has been the return of Billy Mills and the probable return of Dick Wray to the tournament lineup. Both had been out because of knee injuries and were not expected to make the tournament. When questioned concerning which of his grapplers had the best chances of winning their weight classes in the tournament, Parker pointed out Mills and Bizard as top prospects. He also mentioned Russell Walls at heavyweight as having a chance to come through.

VPI Tops Mermen; Face VMI Keydets

The Davidson College Mermen close out their regular season competition tomorrow afternoon, when they face Virginia Military Institute here in a Southern Conference clash. 1962 Southern Conference Champion, VMI is coached by Charlie Arnold and is always tough for any team to handle. Falling 57-36 to VPI on Monday at Blacksburg, Va., the 'Cats hope to make a better showing in the local tank. Leading the victors was Jim Tomlinson, with firsts in the 200 Fly and the 200 Individual Medley. Senior Captain Carter Mebane continued to be Davidson's most consistent threat, with victories in the 50 and 100 Freestyle events. Other Davidson results were as follows: 400 Medley Relay: (3) Grey; (4) Great. 50 Free: (1) Mebane; (4) Truscott. 200 Ind. Med.: (2) Hughes; (4) Purkerson. Diving: (2) Fromm; (3) Jacob. 200 Fly: (3) McKeithen. 100 Free: (1) Mebane; (2) Hughes. 200 Back: (2) Alexander; (3) Downey. 500 Free: (3) Grey; (4) Grant. 200 Breast: (2) Truscott. After the VMI meet, the Wildcat swimmers will travel to Charleston, S. C., on Wednesday to participate in the Southern Conference meet.

Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II, and Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Rent a car the BUDGET Way, less per mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you need. We Feature Free Hotel and Airport Pickup and Delivery Service. 376-0213 301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte.