FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1963

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ATO’s Win Track Meet Nip Sigma Chis By 4 Points

On Wednesday afternoon the ATO’s captured the interfraternity track meet and walked off with the trophy by amassing 24 points,
four more than the Sigma Chis could manage. The Sigma Chis pulled in a second place with 20 points and
the Kappa Sigs finished with 18 points, capturing the third spot. The Phi Delts, defending champs, had to settle for
a sixth place. It was the first time in five years that the Delts failed to claim the trophy.

The outstanding performance for the afternoon was put on by Steve Gill, who broke the existing I-F ¾’s mile record
dating from 1949. The old time was 3:31 and Gill posted a 3:29.6.

Results were as follows:
100 yd. dash (10.8) — Holland (Phi Delt), Burness (Ind.), Atkins (Delt), Andy Little (Phi Gam), Star Evans (Sigma Chi).
220 yd. dash (21.4) — Tie between Jamie Bryant (Kappa Sig) and Dave Lopp (Phi Gam), Tom Worrell (Beta), Dick
Snyder (Kappa Sig).
440 (56.9) — Joel Morresett (ATO), Smith (Phi Delt), McCormack (SPE), Barney Lewis (Sigma Chi).
660 (1:32.6) — Steve Gill (Sigma Chi), Neil McBryde (SAE), Chester Davis (Ind.), Andy Little (ATO).
¾’s mile (3:29.46) — (NEW RECORD) — Steve Gill (Sigma Chi), Neil McBryde (SAE), Chester Davis (Ind.), Andy Little (ATO).
Shot put (43'1½”) — Terry Olin (Sigma Chi), Don Hall (Phi Gam), Jack Hollenbeck (Sigma Chi), Rufus Adair (ATO), Ken
Essex (KA).
Discus (104'1”) — Dave Worrell (Beta), Dave Lopp (Phi Gam), Dick Snyder (Kappa Sig).
Hurdles (14.5) — Greg Gates (ATO), David Sprinkle (Phi Delt), Chip Derrick (Sigma Chi).
880 relay — Kappa Sig, Beta, ATO, Phi Gam.

HIGHLIGHTS AND SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

JUST WAIT

With all the screamin’ and hollerin’ and yellin’ over with and the tournament hubbub died down for another season, there’s
only one thing left to say—WAIT TILL NEXT YEAR! No word is out as yet, but we expect to hear
any day now that “Lefty” Driesell has been named coach of the year in the Southern Conference. If he fails
to show, you can be sure there is something rotten in Virginia, namely sportswriters and sportscasters.

There’s just no rest for a basketball coach if he wants to stay ahead of the pack. As soon as
Driesell brought the squad back from the tournament and before the basketballs were cold, he was off again to New
Jersey to seek out new prospects for next year's ‘better than ever” frosh basketball team. He took with him a
little more “bait” in the way of scholarships than he had available for last year’s recruiting. We hope he can
use the scholarship Bill Jarman is vacating to pull in somebody big enough to fill Jarman’s shoes.

THE PROS ENJOYED STAY

Tony Trabert and his touring pros descended on campus and proved to be as pleasant a diversion as has been
seen around the athletic department in many a day. Apparently, they enjoyed their stay as much as the students who
were able to talk to them and get to know them. The Spanish and Australian pros greatly enjoyed eating down
at the fraternity houses since they were completely unfamiliar with the fraternity system. All of them seemed to adjust easily
into campus life, some of them making a couple of trips up the road. This caused Coach Harry Fogleman a
little concern, fearing that his tennis squad might follow their example. Personally, we don’t think Fogleman ought to worry too
much—after all, it doesn’t seem to have hurt McKay and Bucholtz and the rest.

Easily the most impressive of the group was Trabert. His quick wit and outgoing personality make him seem to be
the perfect type to promote such a tour. Interestingly enough, Trabert has other claims to fame. He was a pretty
fair guard for a Cincinnati basketball team a few years back. And playing for Cincinnati is no easy task.

The matches they put on were excellent and it looked like they were enjoyed by the spectators as much as
anything at Davidson this year (except a couple of the basketball games). It was interesting to note how people can
take on an entirely different nature when a few thousand dollars is riding on their playing—and they were all so
good-natured Monday afternoon when they were just fooling around. All the players said they enjoyed their stay and that they
would like to come back next year. Prospects for this look good, too. The half of the student body and
faculty who failed to show at the matches really missed a top-notch performance. If they are able to make it
back next spring, don’t miss it again.

VPI AND W. VA. IN ACC?

Concerning the recently circulating rumor that VPI and West Virginia will be leaving the Southern Conference to throw in with
the ACC, we can only say that after checking several sources, we can find no substantial basis for the rumor.
All we can gather is that VPI, who would jump at the chance of being in the ACC, couldn't get
an invite into the bigger conference, since they can’t even win in the Southern Conference. West Virginia, on the other
hand, has never showed much interest in joining the ACC.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST

FINAL SCORES
Points
ATO’s 24
Sigma Chis 20
Kappa Sigs 18
Phi Gams 13
SAE’s 12½
SPE 11½
Phi Delts 6
Independents 5
KA 4
Pi Kapps 1

Thinclads Journey To ACC Tournament

BY DENNY PHILLIPS Sports Staff Writer

The track team runs its last indoor meet of the season tomorrow when they participate in the non-conference section of
the Atlantic Coast Conference’s championship meet at Chapel Hill. Almost all Southern Conference schools are expected to participate in the
non-conference division, along with other schools from all over the South.

Coach Heath Whittle feels his boys should do “fairly well” at the meet. “We've been progressing all season,” stated Whittle,
“and we're hoping for our best performances in this meet. All the boys have shown fine promise and I expect
lots from them this year.”

What the team lacks right now—and always has—is depth. That they have the individual stars is shown by the performances
turned in at the Southern Conference meet two weeks ago. Alan Turner, the sensational sophomore from Greensboro, finished second in
the 60-yard dash, fourth in the 70-yard low hurdles, and ran the anchor leg on the third place mile relay
team. Turner will have tough competition from Furman’s British import, Dave Segal, in tomorrow night's 60-yard dash. Segal finished first
in the Southern Conference 60-yards. And the “Mighty Mite” from Charleston, W. Va., Sterling Martin, will undoubtedly be up in
there when the finish of the 2-mile run comes around. Martin finished third in the Conference’s two-mile, only two seconds
behind the winner, Dennis Paterson of Furman.

Bob Cordle, co-captain along with Martin, is also given a good chance to “be there” in his specialty, the broad
jump. Altogether, the ‘Cats could have a fine night.

IT’S I-F TRACK TIME AGAIN, and Monday afternoon saw JIM HART, DAVE LOPP, and GEORGE HARRINGTON giving their all for
their fraternities. LOPP got to the finals in the 100 yd. dash and took a second. The ATO’s won the
meet with 24 points while the Sigma Chis took second in the scoring with 20 points. (Staff Photo by Buck
Lawrimore)

‘Best Ever’ Basketballers Almost Stole Tournament

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD Sports Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats returned from Richmond and the Southern Conference Tournament with the runner-up trophy and a 20-7 season record,
the best in the school’s history. Although they didn’t take the SC crown, the ’Cats led by Senior Captain Bill
Jarman and sophomore sensation Fred Hetzel, showed SC fans that Davidson is a for-real threat to West Virginia domination in
conference action.

After whipping VMI and VPI, the ‘Cats were given little hope of making the game close with the Mountaineers who
had beaten them 89-63 in their first meeting at Morgantown, W. Va. Davidson fans were scarce at the start of
the championship tilt and those there were overshadowed by the WVU mass, which had followed the Mounties from the hills.

The Mountaineers got off to a fast start and led 20-9 with 13:19 left in the half. The lead went
to 13 twice, but the determined ‘Cats fought back. With 3:28 left in the half, WVU held a 10-point edge
over the ‘Cats. However, from that point on, the underdogs ran off a 12-2 surge that started with Holland’s 2-pointer
and caught the West Virginians at intermission, 46-46.Beerman’s jump shot with :02 left on the clock. The second half found
the score see-sawing back and forth between the rejuvenated Wildcats and the Mountaineers. With WVU leading 57-54, Holland stole the
ball and scored. WVU backcourt ace Rod Thorn, attempting to block Holland’s shot off the backboard, injured his ankle and
was out of action for three and one-half minutes. The Wildcats, however, failed to take advantage of the loss of
the WVU star and had only a 4-point lead when Thorn returned to steady the Mountaineer attack. Capitalizing on the
loss of three Davidson starters via fouls, Holland with 10:14 left, Davidson at 3:36, and Teague with :35 left, WVU
went on to capture their eighth Southern Conference title 79-74 and the right to carry the SC banner into the
NCAA tournament. They will meet the University of Connecticut, March 11, in Philadelphia’s Palestra.

In the championship game, Jarman led both teams in scoring with 23 points; Hetzel scored 21 to give him 76
points for the three-day event and the tournament scoring leadership over Thorn who had 75 points. Sophomore Barry Teague proved
to be the event's top foul shooter, hitting 19 for 20, his only miss coming in the VPI game.

Grapplers Competing In Conference Tourney
BY JOHNNY CLARK
Sports Staff Writer

Davidson’s wrestling team, the best in school history, began action today in the first round of the Southern Conference wrestling
tournament at Morganton, West Virginia. The tournament will conclude with finals matches. West Virginia, the host team, ranks as a
co-favorite along with defending champion Virginia Tech and the always tough Citadel grapplers. Dave Cain in the 123 lb. division,
and Jim Jioio in the 157 lb. class, both undefeated this year, are the outstanding Mountaineer representatives in the matches.
Harry Sisler, 167 lb. winner last year, is fighting this year for West Virginia in the heavyweight bracket. Virginia Tech’s
Ernie Ventuvino (123 lbs.), Dave Ellerman (137 lbs.), and Bob Hatcher (157 lbs.) are defending their individual championships won last
year. VMI has 177 lb. champ, Bob Hill, attempting to defend his crown.

“The tournament is about as evenly matched as it has been in years,” comments Wildcat Coach Charlie Parker. “No one
team is a clear-cut choice to win.” Davidson is represented in all weight divisions this year. “From our team, Mike
Bisard (123 lbs.), a sophomore, and Billy Mills (167 lbs.), who placed third last year, probably have the best chance
of winning,” relates Parker. “Tommy Wright (130 lbs.), Joe Jones (157 lbs.), Tom Day (177 lbs.), and Russ Walls (heavyweight)
all have a good chance of placing,” he adds. Lanier Burns, a 137 pounder, and Hugh Allen in the 147
lb. group round out the entries for the Wildcats.

Bill Jarman and Fred Hetzel both made the All-Tournament team along with Thorn, Jerry Smith of Furman, and Howard Pardue
of VPI. Barry Teague captured a berth on the second team.

No definite decision has been made on the location of the tournament for next year, although there was much talk
about a possible change. The Richmond people have done a fine job in promoting the event and putting the tourney
on. However, it was generally felt that the tournament has outgrown the Richmond Arena, although Richmond is the ideal geographic
location. Holding 5,200, the Arena lacks the capacity necessary to hold an event of this type. Four rows of seats
were added to the present capacity on the same level with the court. Vision-blocking posts are found at each end
of the court, which is surrounded by a cement floor. Television and press facilities also were inadequate. TV cameras had
little space and had their vision blocked by fans when they stood up. The press box, although more adequate, still
had much to be desired. Outside, parking facilities were available, but were more like rice paddies after the rainy weather
that fell over the Richmond area during the three-day event. The general consensus is that the tournament will be moved
from the Arena, either to Blacksburg, with a seating capacity of 10,000, or to Charlotte in the 12,000 seat Coliseum.
Because of the VPI homecourt advantage, it appears that the Southern Conference Tournament will be in Charlotte in 1964. However,
the tournament site will not be determined until May 3 when there will be a Conference meeting at Morganton, W.
Va.

Tony Trabert’s Pros Put On Fine Show

Last Monday night, approximately 1300 spectators had the distinct pleasure of watching six of the world’s best tennis players perform
in Johnston Gymnasium. The World Series of Professional Tennis arrived on the Davidson College campus on Sunday, March 3. That
afternoon, several students had an opportunity to meet certain members of the touring tournament when the players ate lunch at
some of the fraternity houses. In chapel the following morning, the student body was treated to a short and humorous
address by Series Director Tony Trabert, previously a player on the tour. Trabert, who had formerly played at the University
of Cincinnati under the tutelage of Davidson's present tennis coach, Harry Fogleman, remarked, “Coach Fogleman taught me how to play
tennis, and I taught him how to eat. You can judge for yourselves who did the better job.”

Although the crowd Monday night was rather small, the fans proved to be enthusiastic and appreciative. Everyone appeared to have
gotten his money’s worth of entertainment. In the first match, rookie Rod Laver from Australia demonstrated the speed, power, and
unusual ability that make him the likely candidate to become the next pro champion in defeating Chilean Luis Ayala, 8-3.
In the second match, another Aussie, Ken Rosewall, the tournament leader, downed Earl Buchholz from St. Louis, 8-5. The third
match was a doubles contest. The players hammed it up and Buchholz and Laver finally won over Rosewall and Ayala
in a crowd pleaser, 8-5. The final match between Dayton, Ohio, native Barry MacKay and Andres Gimeno from Barcelona, Spain,
was the closest of the evening. Each player won his serve until the twelfth game when Gimeno broke MacKay's serve
and went ahead 7-5. MacKay seemed to give up, and Gimeno took four straight points to win the match, 8-5.
This ended a night of fantastic volleys. Tuesday morning, the World Series of Professional Tennis packed up and left Davidson,
but those of us who were fortunate enough to see it will not soon forget their fine performance or Earl
Buchholz’s beautiful wife.

LUIS AYALA, a clown on the court when he teamed up with KEN ROSEWALL in Monday’s comic doubles match, was
dead serious in his match with Aussie ROD LAVER. Here AYALA returns one of LAVER’s serves. (Staff Photo by Buck
Lawrimore)

1963 TENNIS SCHEDULE
Mar. 18 Kent State U. Davidson 2:00
Mar. 20 Geo. Wash. U. Davidson 2:00
Mar. 22 Mich. State U. Davidson 2:00
Mar. 25 The Citadel Charleston, S. C.
Mar. 26 U. of S. C. Columbia, S. C.
Mar. 28 M. I. T. Davidson 2:00
Mar. 30 Furman U. Greenville, S. C.
Apr. 1 Valdosta State Valdosta, Ga.
Apr. 2 Fla. So. Col. Lakeland, Fla.
Apr. 3 Rollins Col. Winter Park, Fla.
Apr. 4 Stetson U. Deland, Fla.
Apr. 5 Hope College Daytona Beach, Fla.
Apr. 8 U. of Richmond Davidson 2:30
Apr. 10 U. of Toledo Davidson 2:30
Apr. 12 Pfeiffer College Misenheimer, N. C.
Apr. 15 Indiana U. Davidson 2:30
Apr. 22 N. C. State Raleigh, N. C.
Apr. 24 Guilford College Guilford, N. C.
Apr. 26 V. M. I. Lexington, Va.
Apr. 27 V. P. I. Blacksburg, Va.
Apr. 30 Wake Forest Davidson 2:30
May 2 Appalachian Davidson 2:30
May 4 Duke U. Durham, N. C.
May 6 So. Con. Tennis Washington, D. C.
