THE LIBRARY: A CRYING SHAME (See Page Two)

VOL. LIII

SUMMIT CONFERENCE — Duke President Douglas Knight and Davidson President D. Grier Martin stand together after last week's special academic
convocation. Davidson awarded Dr. Knight an honorary degree. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1963

Davidson Receives Bequests

In the past year, Davidson College has been the recipient of bequests totaling approximately $1.5 million, which is to be
added to the endowment resources, according to President D. Grier Martin in his announcement to the Board of Visitors last
week. This sum will be added to the total resources of the college which now amount to $19.5 million.

The largest amount among the bequests was an $835,000 sum from the Marcia Bell Mitchell estate. Not included in the
$1.5 million total was a bequest of one-fifth remainder interest from the Margaret Woodsen estate, estimated to exceed $1 million.
Mrs. Woodsen, who died recently at her home in Salisbury, was a member of the Board of Visitors at the
time of her death.

D. Brantley Burns of Knoxville, Tenn., chairman of the board, Manufacturers Acceptance Corp., was elected chairman of the Board of
Visitors at the meeting. Elected new vice-chairman was Edward M. Armfield, president of Armtex, Inc., of Greensboro.

Auditorium Due New Name After Complete Renovation

BY BRITT SNIDER

Chambers Auditorium, since 1929 a center of activity on the Davidson campus, will be completely renovated within the next two
years, and will be renamed the J. Spencer Love Auditorium, honoring the benefactor whose bequest of $200,000 will make the
face-lifting possible.

In addition to enlarging the auditorium itself and increasing its seating capacity, provisions will be made for air-conditioning, improved lighting
and acoustics, new stage equipment, and an elevator to serve both the main floor and balcony of the auditorium. No
date has been set for the beginning of this project, but it is expected to be completed within the next
two years.

“This renovation,” says Director of Public Relations and Development Robert Sailstad, “is only a part of the total development program,
which was begun in 1956 to meet all of Davidson’s needs. This progress has already been evidenced to some extent
by the renovation of the dome room and the office space in the basement of Chambers.”

Davidson’s present calls for an increase in resources to reach $34 million by 1971. This would necessitate an increase in
endowment and plant resources of more than $20 million over the present resources available. These additional funds would be used,
not only in improving the physical plant, but to raise the salary level of professors and to improve the library
and other instructional facilities as well.

The gift made by the Love Foundation, as Sailstad points out, is a step towards realizing this plan. Love, president
of Burlington Mills and a member of the Board of Visitors, died last January at the age of 65. President
D. Grier Martin says of him, “His interest in Davidson and higher education generally made him one of the college’s
most valued friends. Hardly a week would go by but that he was in touch with us on matters concerning
the college: and his ideas and support, evidencing a great love for this institution, were of invaluable help to us.”

This particular gift was earmarked for the renovation of the auditorium by the donors, who, he adds, were well acquainted
with Davidson’s plans for the future. Sailstad said, “I hope that this step in progress will encourage others to participate
in making this institution all that it should be.”

Debaters Finish In Top Ten In Peachtree

BY JOHN BAILEY

The Davidson debaters finished among the top ten teams in the large Peachtree Tournament at Emory University on Nov. 1
and 2, placing the affirmative team seventh out of 41 participants representing 31 colleges.

There are two tournaments in which Davidson will be represented this weekend. One team, composed of Skip Jones who is
president of the Davidson chapter of Tau Kappa Alpha debate society, Conrad Shumadine, Stan Cameron and Joe Rice, will go
to the Sigma Rho Tau Kappa Alpha Regional Tournament in Knoxville, Tenn., where the University of Tennessee will host this
national debate society event.

Another team journeys to Appalachian State Teachers College to participate in the 238th Mountain Forensic Tournament. This team is composed
of Walt Drake, Dave Hardeman and Tom Poston. The fourth place, as yet unfilled, is being vied for by four
candidates.

Mrs. H. T. Lilly, coach of the debaters, has stated that the team is working hard and good tournament results
are expected before the year is completed. With a hopeful eye to the future, she points to the fact that
there are two freshmen (Cameron and Rice) on the first team. Mrs. Lilly also invited any interested persons to come
to Phi Hall Monday or Wednesday nights at 7 p.m. to see the team in practice debate on the national
query: “Resolved: That the Federal Government should guarantee an opportunity for higher education to all qualified high school graduates.”

After the busy weekend of the 16th, the team will attend a tournament at Wake Forest in December and has
been invited to attend the very large annual meeting at Harvard later this year. It is also likely that Davidson
will be represented in the Naval Academy’s tournament.

Margenau Speaks With Catching Zeal

BY GREG GOVAN

Dr. Henry Margenau was not announced by all the trumpets of the sky, but he did manage to bring a
special variety of snowstorm to the Davidson campus. There was, of course, the cut and dried press release in the
local paper and the dailies to the south. And Dr. Earl McCormac sprang metaphysics on an unsuspecting chapel audience by
way of introduction. But Dr. Margenau was his own self-contained attraction. It is enough to say he was a

NCAA REJECTS SOCCER ‘CATS (See Page Three)

NUMBER TEN

Students Will Choose: Yea Or Nay On NSA

College Membership Hotly Debated Issue

In a special Student Council referendum Monday after chapel, the student body will determine the survival of the National Student
Association on the local campus. The Student Council yesterday issued mimeographed statements of its favorable attitude toward the association.

Student Council President John Spratt expressed the hope that the students would not “take the vote as a lark. This
would be a disservice to the council,” he said, “and ultimately a disservice to themselves.”

In answer to the assertion by Pat Freeny, who has spearheaded local opposition to the NSA, that the organization had
“overstepped its bounds” in taking a political stand, Spratt said, “Freeny is wrong, because political affairs are certainly relevant to
student activities.”

Spratt also stood in opposition to the suggestion by Freeny that a student political group should be set up apart
from the NSA. “Individual membership,” Spratt said, “would be the only way to operate such a group. This organization would
become so leftist that indeed it could not be related to student affairs any longer.”

On the other hand, Freeny said, “Spratt has listed what he calls specific benefits such as a travel program. The
fact is that these are benefits that we haven’t had. Anyway, there are listed in the Union about ten good
travel programs.” Also, Freeny described Spratt’s claim that the college had benefitted from speakers through the NSA. “Certainly people know
about speakers such as James Farmer without the NSA.”

A main point of controversy in the question of the NSA at Davidson has centered around Article X of the
Constitution of the organization. Article X states: “A. No body acting on behalf of the USNSA shall participate in sectarian
religious activities or partisan political activities; they shall not take part in activities which do not affect students in their
role as students. B. No substantial part of activities of national and regional bodies of USNSA shall be devoted to
carrying on propaganda or otherwise attempting to influence legislation.”

“Spratt says that the resolutions do not mean that we agree with them,” Freeny stated, “but the constitution encourages support
of these resolutions.” He went on to say that “anytime there is a group voting, the resolutions will reflect generally
the attitude of the memberSchools and the NSA do not list which schools opposed the stand, although they do list
the number of dissenters. Spratt said to Freeny last Wednesday that in quoting figures concerning the cost of NSA membership,
“You can’t include regional dues because we haven’t paid them yet. There's no sense paying $20 Monday if we're not
going to be in it Tuesday.” Finally, Freeny said in his stand against local membership:

AT REYNOLDS LECTURES

Teacher, and one of a high order. Every member of the profession must at some time or another make the
decision to go ahead in scholarship and research or be primarily an instructor of his charges. Margenau has certainly gone
ahead—to the present outer fringes of developments in physics; yet he has also kept a foot in the teaching area,
a very adroit foot. He had something to share with everyone who took the trouble to listen. He spoke under
the auspices of the Reynolds program and the YMCA. He lectured to physics majors and stirred up every would-be philosopher
and theologian on campus. To everyone who did listen, Margenau spoke in the authority of the hearer's language; the Richardson
Scholars heard English as it should be employed for instruction. There were no apologies for the introduction of names or
principles or technical points, yet they were clear and without a nimbus of semantic jargon to hide what was being
said in the chaste obscurity of obscurity. Margenau had something with him that was even more important, and it came
out when Pat Freeny asked him about the principle of uncertainty and ethics. It seems Margenau had just written a
book about it, and Freeny had hit upon a question where the only apology in the answer was in being
brief. The doctor was plainly excited about the subject and wanted to share his enthusiasm. More than his great body
of understanding, his desire to press for the underlying unity behind the fragmentations of experience, his remarkable wit and quick
grasp, Margenau was exceptional as one who knew enough to be interested, more than interested, so that his plain excitement
was contagious. Not anyone at the wrestling matches was more involved, more caught up in his subject than he. Dr.
Henry Margenau combined the showmanship of a good sell with the utter lack of compromise on the dignity and seriousness
of his subject. He had the authority of knowledge and that of spirit. Perhaps science and the “ologies” are both
open-ended now in the minds of students; if not, the same students recognize Margenau believes it. And enthusiastic belief is
one mark of a first-rate teacher.

SPRATT-PAT SPAT

The Ins and Outs of NSA

Ex-Prime Minister Heads Week's Chapel Programs

Heading this week’s chapel programs will be a former prime minister of Hungary. Also to speak are the dean of
faculty at Florida Presbyterian College and the minister of the Seigle Avenue Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Ferenc Nagy, former prime
minister of Hungary, will have as his topic in assembly Tuesday “Is the Danger of a Communist World Revolution Still
Present?” His experiences gained with the Hungarian government, at several international conferences, and by his many travels throughout the world
have helped to make him an expert on the threat of communism to the free world. Nagy has had a
very active public career since he helped start the Independent Smallholders’ Party of Hungary and became its national secretary in
1930. In 1939 he was elected to the Hungarian Parliament; two years later he founded the Hungarian Peasants’ Association. During
World War II, he was captured by the Gestapo, and upon his release in 1945 he became president of the
Hungarian Parliament. The same year he rose to national president of the Independent Smallholders’ Party. His political career reached its
peak in 1946-47, when he became prime minister of Hungary. In 1947, when the Communists took over his nation's government,
he was exiled to the United States. During the past years of exile, Nagy has remained active as a member
of the Hungarian National Council, vice-president of the International Peasant Union, and the author of several magazine articles and the
book "Struggle Behind the Iron Curtain."

BOOKWORM

The following were judged the 10 most-read non-curricular books in the college library last year, the library staff reported this
week:
1. The Last Of The Whitfields, by Elsie Sanguinette.
2. The Education Of Jonathan Beam, by Russell Brantley.
3. O Ye Jigs And Juleps, by Virginia Cary Hudson.
4. A Long And Happy Life, by Reynolds Price.
5. Through The Valley of The Kwai, by Ernest Gordon.
6. Always In August, by Ann Head.
7. Close To Home, by Taylor Caldwell.
8. Castle Door, by Sir Arthur Quiller Couch.
9. Kirkland Revels, by Victoria Holt.
10. The Fox In The Attic, by Richard Hughes.

DR. HENRY MARGENAU

Dr. John M. Bevan, dean of the faculty at Florida Presbyterian College and former associate professor of psychology at Davidson,
will speak at the Omicron Delta Kappa tapping ceremony in chapel Monday. A native of Pennsylvania, Bevan took his BA
at Franklin and Marshall College and his BD, MA, and PhD at Duke. Before coming to Davidson in 1954, he
taught at Heidelberg College in Ohio. In 1961, the president of the new Florida Presbyterian College asked Bevan to become
dean of the faculty. Rev. Ernest T. Thompson, coordinator of an intra-city development project of the Presbyterian Church in a
low-income section of Charlotte, will speak in chapel Thursday, Nov. 21. The minister of Seigle Avenue Presbyterian Church in the
Queen City, Rev. Mr. Thompson directs his efforts mainly to those living in public housing, the meager income section of
the city. The church was organized in 1945 and has been a home mission church since that time. Rev. Thompson
graduated from Hampden-Sydney College with an AB degree and received his BD from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. He has
been at the Seigle Avenue church for three years.
