Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1963

(The editorials in this column are meant to be the voice of one man, and do not necessarily reflect the
views of the editor.)

On Reinstatement
Last week this editor mentioned the sense of fair play that characterizes Dr. J. McDowell Richards, and expressed a hope
that Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz would be given a hearing by the trustees. Dr. Richards and the other three members
of the Trustee Committee on Education not only gave Dr. Goodykoontz a fair hearing, but rendered a decision which kept
the integrity of all concerned intact. In its statement of reinstatement, the committee reaffirmed its support of Dean F. W.
Johnston, and the fact that the recommendation for reinstatement, which was accepted, came from the dean stands as a vote
of confidence. At the same time, the committee's action reflects a desire on their part to deal fairly with a
man who has made an outstanding contribution to the college.

In connection with the part of the trustee story last week which concerned Dr. James P. Hendrix, this editor wishes
to state that the implication of duplicity on Dr. Hendrix’s part was based on what this editor believes was a
misinterpretation of a misunderstanding. This matter is discussed in a letter on this page written by Dr. Goodykoontz, which points
out that the reporters involved were acting in good faith on the information they had received.

A Word Of Appreciation
If the chaplaincy at Davidson involved only the paperwork necessary to secure speakers for chapel and vespers, a man could
fill the position adequately in an eight-hour day. But it is another matter to have to be constantly concerned with
trying to help students pick up the pieces of a personal faith which has undergone a mauling in class and
bull sessions.

Selah To 1962-63
As this is the last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN this year, we would like to close with a summary of
the positive side of 1962-63. Next year a Great Issues program comes to Davidson, backed amply by $4,000, and such
a program could be invaluable as a means of focusing Davidson attention on the outside world.

Scholastically, Davidson took several significant strides forward this year. The Humanities program materialized. An advanced standing program complete with full
credit was approved for the first time by the faculty. The language requirement was altered to emphasize knowledge of a
language rather than the number of semester hours acquired. Several departments, recently Biology, are considering or have already set up
programs which allow intensive personal study in a field for credit. The Machine Age arrived at Davidson in the form
of a computer. A French Honors program was begun. The student reaction to the new cut policy indicated that Davidson
students can and will take responsibility, and this no doubt figured into the administration's decision to liberalize the vespers attendance
requirement to include Sunday morning services in Davidson.

Socially, the Independents found a home in Lingle Manor, and the college lake site added a new dimension to the
campus. Davidson sports generally had a good year, and next year the overall program could well hit an all-time high.
Football will be stronger, and the baseball team returns virtually intact. The basketball team had their best season ever, and
should run wild next year. Several of the teams in other sports finished high in conference competition, and, particularly in
the case of tennis, should have good seasons in the coming school year.

Anyway, there are just two more weeks of school until summertime, and then come at least a few days of
sweetness and light until summer work, summer camp, and summer school begin. To the graduating seniors: good luck, and please
subscribe to our newspaper next year.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Stitt

BUSINESS MANAGER
Rick Finch

Associate Editors
Bill Pridgen
Bill Ruth
Jeff Wampler
Charles Dibble
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth

Managing Editors
Rick Lowery

Assistant Editor
Tuck Jones

Sports Editor
Tom Loflin

Assistant Sports Editor
John Todd

Feature Editor
Jimmy Downey

Assignments Editor
Joe McCutchen

News Editor
Buck Lawrimore

Photographers
Dan Adams
Johnny Wright

Cartoonists
Walter MacDonald
Rufus Hallmark

Assistant Bus. Manager
Charlie Smith

Advertising Manager
Irvine Welling

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Contributors: Forrest Roles, Bob Strauser, George Fain, Tom Vinson, Bill Hufford, Britt Snider, Tom Craig, Ernie Depascale, Bill Logan, Kerr
Thompson, Don McKinnon, Jim Graves, Carlton Cole, and Greg Govan.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

The Last Blast By Ackerman Snarrow
Flies Off Unnoticed By Flock

Conservative Students Sweep Liberal NSA Off 32 Campuses
BY CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Last Wednesday the Student Council voted to retain membership in the National Student Association for the coming year. During the
discussion someone suggested that perhaps the student body as a whole should be given the opportunity to make the choice
on whether or not to retain membership in the controversial organization, usually termed ultra-liberal by its conservative critics. The issue
has never been submitted to a student body referendum.

“They (the students) don't know the problem as well as we do,” warned Danny Carrell, ex-student body president. And the
council went along with him, making the choice itself.

On other campuses, students dissatisfied with this sort of dictation from above have taken the matter into their own hands,
resulting in a formidable series of setbacks for NSA. Human Events, a conservative weekly, has described how students voted to
oust local NSA chapters at Indiana University and the University of Texas in its issues of April 20 and April
27. At Indiana, with 23,000 students, the vote went 4071 to 2526 against NSA. At Texas, with more than 22,600,
enough voters turned out to vote 2102 to 1453 against NSA affiliation. Despite such low turnouts, the margins against NSA
have been heavy.

The trend to reject NSA affiliation seems to be gaining momentum across the nation. Since August 1961, 32 colleges and
universities with an aggregate enrollment of 226,000 have severed affiliation with NSA. A list of schools departing the NSA fold
includes: Ohio State University, University of Texas, Northwestern University, University of Missouri, University of Oklahoma, University of Nebraska, University of
Kansas, Vanderbilt University, and Indiana University. In addition, 14 schools with a total of 112,000 enrolled have rejected proposed NSA
membership since 1961. A few of these are: Purdue University, George Washington University, University of Virginia, University of Kentucky, American
University, Washington & Lee University.

“Today,” crows Human Events, “this organization—which once ruled the campus roost—represents less than 1/5 of the 2011 institutions available for
NSA membership.”

Human Events listed five reasons that conservative groups have been able to rid their campuses of NSA.

1. The nebulous conservative revolt on the campuses.
2. Efforts of Young Republican Clubs and chapters of Young Americans for Freedom. YAF, organized in August 1961 to fight
liberal fire with the conservative variety, has chosen NSA as its chief target. Human Events traces the decline of NSA
from the date of YAF’s founding. At Indiana, the YAF chapter and the YR Club spearheaded a “STOP NSA” committee.
At Texas it was a “Committee for a Responsible Student Government" that sparked the drive to oust NSA. The committees
wrote letters, saturated their campuses with literature, and spoke on the issue before student groups.
3. “Underhanded” tactics employed by the liberals. At Texas, student petitions for a referendum on that school’s affiliation with NSA
were certified by the student attorney general only after a two-week delay. And if that wasn't enough harassment, the final
straw was when the attorney general invalidated the petitions because, due to the delay, it would have been “impractical” to
hold the referendum at the time requested. Also at Texas, a “non-partisan” student government committee was set up to get
the facts on the issue and present them to the student body in the pages of the Daily Texan. But
the move backfired in liberal faces when the head of the committee, who was responsible for choosing the rest of
the committee members and the witnesses to appear before it, proved to be an avowed NSA supporter. Only one witness
called by the committee spoke against NSA.
4. NSA intrusion. The NSA bylaws forbid partisan political activities on campuses by national officers. But at both Indiana and
Texas, NSA officials mysteriously turned up to aid students supporting NSA. At Indiana, NSA paid for an ad in the
student newspaper that quoted theHouse Committee on Un-American Activities as having called NSA an “effective” anti-Communist organization. Although HUAC, a
frequent NSA target, emphatically denied the charge, NSA repeated the statement in another ad in the Indiana paper on the
day of the election.

5. NSA does not represent students. “While few students have ever heard of NSA and most have no opportunity to
register their opinions, the organization continues to take radical stands on political issues in the name of millions of students.”
So goes the theme hammered home by Human Events in its articles. A selection of these stands is included in
a box on this page. The conservative weekly carefully neglected to tell the entire truth in its articles, however. The
executive council of NSA, the guilty father of the stands, has asked the legislative end of NSA, the National Student
Congress, to remove its potency this summer by abolishing its right to take political stands not specifically approved by the
congress.

1. Defense of Japanese student rioting against former President Eisenhower.
2. Praise for Fidel Castro’s educational “reforms” and earlier condemnation of the Batista government in Cuba for suppressing academic freedom.
3. Recommendation that the House Committee on Un-American Activities be abolished.
4. Opposition to loyalty oaths for students receiving scholarships.
5. Criticism of U.S. aid to such allies as Spain and Portugal—but not a word of complaint concerning U.S. aid
to Yugoslavia and Poland.
6. Denunciation of U.S. measures to achieve nuclear superiority.

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Davidson is a particular kind of college. It is a liberal arts college rather than a university or vocational school.
It is a small college, priding itself on the personal relationship between students and faculty, students and their fellows.”

But of course, there are a few exceptions to the college catalogue’s earnest solicitations for boys of genius whose parents
have heard of “your great abilities.” On December 8, 1962, Gerald Chambers received a card which stated that he had
better not miss another Vespers unless he wanted to spend a month in Davidson. Or rather, his post office box
received the letter, because Chambers, G. T., Murphy, N. C. had transferred from Davidson in mid-October.

Since he was campused, he might as well work, so the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid sent him a
letter asking if he were interested in working there 5 to 10 hours a week. That was in January. In
February, Jerry received a bid to Eumenean Literary Society, who certainly out-competed Phi in “the bidding of freshmen who have
distinguished themselves in literary endeavors.” And last month Jerry was asked to help reactivate the old college Baptist Student Union.
Maybe he would be a foreign missionary at Western Carolina.

There are some bright spots. The Eumenean letter was careful to note that recommendation “is based on your academic interests
shown during the last semester.” Which is a good trick for someone who was only here a month and a
half.

So when you read about drama, fine arts, and literary magazines at the center of education, culture, and learning in
the South, just remember old whats-his-name, who lived in Watts? third floor, I think. Have you seen him around recently?
He’s about to overcut in English.

Name
Address
City

—I Enclose Three Dollars
—Bill Me Later

The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N. C.

LETTERS TO Goodykoontz

Dear Editor:

Dr. James Hendrix has stated to me and to others that I misunderstood him when I quoted him in last
week's DAVIDSONIAN, as saying that he had never heard my name before. Dr. Hendrix explained that what he had really
said was that he had never heard of my case before. Of course, since the two sounds—name and case—are fairly
similar, I hope it will be understood that my mistake was an unintentional one. I make this correction in fairness
to Dr. Hendrix, who seemed to feel that this error was of some significance.

As one widely known as an able and active member of the Education Committee of the Board of Trustees, Dr.
Hendrix would, of course—as he pointed out—be likely to know the names of most of the members of the faculty;
and of course, I accept his explanation without question. I am also glad to accept his explanation of why he
told me three times that he had never heard about my case or my resignation. As he told several of
us, he did not necessarily “tell everything he knew,” once he realized what I was calling about. Of course, I
accept this explanation, likewise, without question.

In my own behalf, however, I feel I must say—for myself and for my friends who also heard our conversation—that
if Dr. Hendrix had said he did not wish to discuss the matter or simply used the old phrase, “No
comment,” we would not have been led astray.

I think I should add, in fairness to the reporters on THE DAVIDSONIAN—Tom Loflin and Charles Dibble—that, except for the
confusion over the words name and case (for which I assume full responsibility), the essential accuracy of my account of
the conversation with Dr. Hendrix has not been questioned by either of us.

William F. Goodykoontz

Trotter, Chumbley

Dear Editor:

The air is finally settling over the recent crisis here at Davidson. As individuals rather intimately connected with the recent
events, we wish to sum up at this time our present feelings on the matter:

We wish to retract any reflections on the personal character of the President and Dean of Faculty that we have
made. We regret sincerely the tone and method we used during the controversy.

We continue to believe that the creative aspects of a liberal arts education are not receiving proper emphasis at Davidson.
We believe that the issues could have been resolved or at least clarified had there been an opportunity to discuss
them at a proper forum.

We wish to express our regret at the loss to the college of Dr. Goodykoontz and the circumstances surrounding that
loss.

We would like to go on record in saying that Davidson has a great and unique potential among schools of
its size, and it has the chance to reach a position of preeminence. We have acted because of our belief
in the school, and we wish here to indicate our desire to work for the realization of this potential.

Bob Chumbley
Bill Trotter

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Subscribe to the 1963-64 DAVIDSONIAN. Only $3.00
—Renewal
—New Subscription
