Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BILL HAGEN Editor-in-Chief
EP WILLER Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 1963
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A Value Judgement

There has been an undercurrent of discussion here and there concerning the new projects for expanding the Student Union and
developments on Lake Norman. Some few students feel that these projects are not justified in the face of other needs
which Davidson faces at the present time, especially concerning the library and faculty finances. As always, there are innumerable factors
involved, and as students speaking from dedicated ignorance, we must make allowance for the unknowns. The library and faculty salaries
are under perpetual improvement. They have simply not yet fallen victims to a “crash program.” The reasons for this range
from the fact that these projects do not lend themselves to spectacular crashing programs to the other type of fact
that things are steadily, if slowly, improving, to the other fact that even the present allotments for new books are
not always used up by the professors concerned.

Activities Of Worth

The term “extracurricular” covers a wide range of activity. From the football field to the student council meeting, this term
refers to the organized effort which allows the individual to refine and complete the educational experience. Many times these activities
produce results which are considered beneficial to the whole college community. Participation and record excellence in extracurriculars is frequently motivated
and rewarded by scholarships. Extracurriculars are thus recognized to be beneficial on the same basis as academic excellence. Monetary recognition
of achievement in extracurriculars is limited to athletics at Davidson. And since the field of beneficial activities is not this
limited, we think the administration should investigate the possibility of giving scholarships to leaders in these activities. We would specifically
suggest that scholarships be established for the president of the Student Council and the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. These are
two of the most active and responsible positions on campus. The organizations involved are certainly two of the most vital
student activities. Perhaps even as vital as athletics.

Eloi, Eloi

Something that draws up the college calendar has a grudge against the Crucifixion, for year after year, Davidson students are
herded into classrooms on Good Friday. We realize that most students couldn't care less, although they wouldn’t object to another
holiday. But there are some who find this strangely inconsistent in a church-related institution. Davidson is associated with the Presbyterian
Church, an institution which recognizes Good Friday as a rather special day. But alas, Davidson students who attend the Good
Friday services are given no credit for good works, but rather big bad cuts. It would, of course, be too
simple a solution to include Good Friday or Holy Week in the Spring Vacation. It would be futile. But could
someone not arrange it for students to attend the Good Friday services in Davidson without suffering the penalties of the
cut system? On the other hand, the present policy is uniquely appropriate. For Christ was crucified in relative obscurity, and
left to hang before passers-by. The followers who were present were there at their own risk. So, it is fitting
that Davidson too passes by its own professed reason for existing, bumbling on its way with the rest of the
pagan world, with no time for fanatics. Yes, it is fitting, almost too fitting a commentary on something, somewhere.

Noted In Passing

Right now there is a festering menace off our shores that is ever seeking to spread subversion throughout this land.
The councils of war are in session and the predators have met. The balance of power is shifting. Yes, off
the shores of that man-made lake called Norman, a godless philosophy is taking its cancerous hold. In the stagnant waters
of back-eddies and semi-swamps, untroubled by any foul chemical, the barbaric mosquito gleefully plots for that massive blitzkrieg. When? When
we are weakest. Spring Frolics. Or when we are gripped by creeping sunbathing. What can we mortals do? As we
see it, the Davidson family has two choices. We can all drive our cars out to the shores of the
lake and drain oil on the troubled waters. (Plenty of parking space out there.) The best thing, however, is for
the administration to act positively in this matter. The entire campus and facilities must be enveloped under a giant mosquito
net. We demand a protective quarantine! Surely our bodies deserve the same protection that our spirits get! We must hurry
though. Spring is upon us and soon Nature will hold all the cards.

WE ARE WAITING for parking lines to be moved closer.

Students are never satisfied with the food. At Wake Forest the editorials are critical of their systemized food. We hear
of mass food poisonings at V.P.I. And of course we have problems too. We have figured out that the only
solution to the universal problem is to hand out individual pre-heated cans. With sterilized can openers.

Staff

Associate Editor Knox Abernethy
Editorial Assistant Jim Williams
Assistant Editor Bill Ruth
Managing Editors David Stitt, Jeff Wampler
Sports Editor Bill Pridgen
Assignments Editor Charles Ramberg
Feature Editor Tom Loflin
News Editor Charles Dibble
Assistant News Editor Jimmy Downey
Photographers Joe McCutchen, Buck Lawrimore, Dan Adams, Joe Howell, Walter MacDonald, Rufus Hallmark
Advertising Manager Irvine Welling
Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane
Assistant Bus. Manager Charlie Smith
Cartoonists

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Ai~-Fresh Or Hot?
By MacDonald

German Urges France: Join Unity Movement

Responsible Journalism

Active YMCA

Great Issues

Playboy’s Researchers

The U.S. college man has been profiled in a recent student survey by Playboy. He is 20.6 years old. Twelve
chances out of a hundred, he is married. He spent $68 in refurbishing his back-to-campus wardrobe. It's an even bet
that he owns or has full-time use of an automobile. He makes a point of being well-groomed and has already
accumulated much of the gear of the good life. He is Joe College, 1963. A mass of brand new information
about the nation of male undergraduates is revealed in a new study, “Male College Student Survey,” conducted by the research
firm, Benn Management Corporation, in cooperation with the Market Research Department of Playboy magazine. Involving a sample size of 12,100
mail questionnaires, the survey results are based on final returns from more than 5,000 male students from 72 U.S. colleges
and universities. The survey shows that 11.2% of today’s male students are married. 11.8% of today’s undergraduates underwrite all of
their college expenses, while 17.2% do not contribute at all to their college support. 62.4% live on campus, 22.4% off
campus but not with their families, and 15.2% reside off campus with their families. 29.3% belong to a social fraternity.
As to outside jobs, the study shows that 52.8% work during summer only, while 30.3% work both during the summer
and school year. 14.6% do not work at all. How dependent are today’s college students on the automobile? The survey
shows that 36.7% possess their own cars while 10.7% have full-time personal use of one. While December was still early
in the current model year, 2.7% already drive a 1963 automobile, 10.7% a 1962 model, 8.4% a 1961 model and
7.6% a 1960 model. When asked about alcoholic beverage consumption, 66.8% of all male undergraduates responded affirmatively. Moreover, 60.5% drink
beer, 25.3% wine, 50% liquor. 60.4% of all male college students surveyed answered that they smoked: 41.8% cigarettes, 11.9% cigars
and 14.8% pipes. Among cigarette smokers, filter types were the favorite, with the total sample showing 66.8% preferring this kind
of cigarette. 14.5% smoke king size, while 22.3% smoke regular. Cigar smokers prefer panatella shapes with 33.3%, while 22.5% liked
cigarillos, 19.3% blunts and 15.9% tip ends. Of pipe smokers, 44.9% said that they smoked five or less pipefuls during
the week preceding the survey. The median price for their last pound of tobacco purchased was $2.30. That today’s college
man is far from the “beatnik” type is shown by the high use of personal grooming aids. 83.6% use after-shave
lotions, 72.8% shampoo, 69.3% hair dressing, 41.4% cologne and 38.1% powder or talc. The survey also specifies what percent of
students used each of the products “yesterday.” For example, 91.3% used a deodorant, of whom 98.7% used it “yesterday.” While
the median expenditure for back-to-school wardrobes in 1962 was $68.07, 32% spent over $100 and 8.7% over $200. The typical
student wardrobe consists of 2.6 suits, 2 sports jackets, 6.5 pairs of slacks, 3.8 pairs of shoes, 6.2 dress shirts,
10 sport shirts, 1.1 topcoats or overcoats, 1.4 other winter coats, 0.9 raincoats, 0.7 dress hats, 4.7 sweaters, 6.3 ties,
2.7 belts, 14.6 pairs of socks, 10 undershirts, 10.5 pairs of undershorts. As to home entertainment, off-campus and on-campus, 49%
own record players, 16.9% tape recorders, 63.1% table model radios.Television sets. In addition, 53.1% own transistor or portable radios. 17.9%
own 35 mm cameras; 8.7% movie cameras; 6% Polaroid cameras; 6.2% slide projectors and 8.7% movie projectors. Typewriters are owned
by 59.3%, wristwatches by 88.9% and fountain pens by 81.6%. Questioned as to what magazine they read “regularly” (try to
read every issue), 34.5% said Playboy, 33.3% Life, 29.5% Time, 25.1% Saturday Evening Post and 21.1% Sports Illustrated. Asked to
list their “first favorite” magazine, 13.3% answered Playboy; 12.3% Time; 8.9% Life; 8.1% Sports Illustrated and 6.6% Saturday Evening Post.
The study results also reflect complete characteristics of Playboy campus readers versus non-readers. The introduction to the Benn questionnaire says,
“You are one of a limited number of students...” Wonder how many Davidson gentlemen were so honored?

Summer Positions Offer More Than Just Money
BY BILL REINY

College students should no longer feel that a summer job is just employment to fill in breathing space. The interested
student can obtain a position in which he can gain experience in and knowledge of the problem areas of our
nation as well as those of other nations. In fact, it appears that the student can find employment to meet
almost any interest he might have if only he begins early enough and is not easily discouraged. Some of the
possible opportunities in the area of social problems deserve attention.

The American Friends Service Committee sponsors numerous work and study projects during the summer, including several in North Carolina. A
Citizenship Education Project will be held this summer in Warren and Franklin counties to assist Negro leaders in setting up
a series of workshops. Also, a voter registration project in Greensboro is scheduled for late summer. Other proposed projects include
work with the mentally ill and retarded, and with juvenile offenders. In addition, projects are planned in about twenty-five foreign
countries. Financial remuneration is received for some of the jobs.

For one who is interested in the problems of the urban areas, many opportunities are available. Many social work agencies
sponsor summer camps working with children from the slums and employ students with the expressed purpose of training them for
the work involved. Some churches such as Judson Memorial Church in New York City sponsor Church and Urban Life projects
in which students are aided in securing employment in businesses and shops in addition to participating in seminars with experts
on various aspects of problems they encounter. Other organizations sponsor projects of a similar nature in which the participant receives
a direct experience in an area of vital concern.

As many are aware, there are many projects scheduled dealing with the problem areas in foreign countries. As mentioned above,
the AFSC sponsors projects in several nations including the Soviet Union. The Board of World Missions of Presbyterian Church U.S.
has considered the possibility of sponsoring projects for students in foreign countries, but at present limits its summer program to
the sending of 10 to 15 students to work at the mission stations. It should be noted that they appear
to be especially interested in pre-medical students with adequate language preparation to assist in the mission hospitals. As one would
expect, the money to be received for such employment is limited. But maybe money is not the desirable end for
all activity.

All in all, a college student should not have the attitude that because he is a student he must remain
aloof from direct participation in areas of vital concern to all people. He can deal first hand with the crises
of race, social welfare, urban renewal, family disintegration, undeveloped nations, etc. Information on summer work projects can be obtained from
Will Terry. It may be very difficult and very troublesome to fill out applications, but the possible experience to be
derived from the employment might be invaluable to one searching to find his niche in life.

BY ALEX WUSTMANN
Richardson Scholar

There has been much discussion about the recent “Black Day of Europe”: analysis and forecasts filled the newspapers, an immediate
biography of troublemaker General De Gaulle was sent to every home by TV. After wading through all this, everybody in
the USA feels insulted. They feel that the Veto of Brussels was practically aggression against them. This is too much!

General De Gaulle has two weak points. First, he doesn’t like the British and thought that the French Veto would
finally decide, to the favor of France, the silent battle about who has the most important voice in Europe. Second,
he is a typical Frenchman, and, during his speeches, when he touches every listener by the fascinating glory and importance
of France, he probably would like to change his first name Charles to Napoleon. But he forgets the difference between
Napoleon and him: Napoleon had the mightiest army in Europe and De Gaulle, on the contrary, is equipped with an
impotent nuclear force that cannot in the least startle the Russian bear.

The Nassau agreement between President Kennedy and Prime Minister MacMillan disappointed De Gaulle very much. Here Great Britain accepted the
American Polaris missiles, for she believed it would strengthen her defensive power. Thus France saw first place in Europe, which
she had claimed, disappear for the sake of Great Britain. But in recent days we have seen that significant diplomacy
emanates less from Paris than from Washington. Once again America took the position as the leader of the Western world,
as she renewed atomic tests after fruitless talks with the Soviets. A surprising statement was also issued that the United
States is willing to give up its bases in Turkey and southern Italy because through the Polaris submarines they have
become useless. But other bases remain still around the neck of the Soviets, beginning with the Arctic, Greenland, Iceland, Great
Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Greece, and along the Asian border to Formosa and Japan.

It is my opinion that President Kennedy does not give this gift to the Soviets of abandoning the Turkey bases
because of the Cuban question but because of his grand design, that the European nations should defend themselves as strongly
as possible and should not only rely on American super-weapons. So the European Unity is nowadays more important than ever.
General De Gaulle should remember that Khrushchev once stated that in a war he would blow out Germany like a
candle. A solitary France wouldn't be any better off. The German-French treaty, after centuries of dispute and hatred, is outstanding
and a great tribute to De Gaulle and Adenauer, whose lifework seems to be fulfilled. However, compared to the problem
of European Integration it is only secondary. Europe needs Great Britain and it needs a Common Market with England as
a partner. I am sure that the “Black Day of Brussels” was only a momentary crisis and that General De
Gaulle will wake up very soon and forget his sweet, but dangerous dream. That is, if he wants to avoid
this dream changing to a nightmare.

Cole Explains Role Of Union On Campus
BY BEN COLE
College Union President

We call it the College Union, not the Student Union as you may have often heard, because the Union is
the whole college at once. It embraces students, faculty, administration, alumni, and friends—the whole college as a family unit. It
offers us a place to meet, to eat, to work, to play, and to just relax. But the Union is
more than just a place. It is an integration of the total campus life in which the many phases of
study and play are blended together.

At Davidson our College Union constantly tries to fulfill these goals. It makes available student organization offices, meeting rooms, work
space, lounge and game facilities, a student store, cafeteria and catering service, bookstore, and a ballroom-theater. One arm of the
Union organization is the student board of committee chairmen with the president of the Union at its head. Working together
within the Union, the board attempts to serve the campus by offering what it calls a “program”. This program involves
recognizing our needs as students, professors, and friends of the College and attempting to organize and present a series of
projects to help these needs.

This work is done by 10 committees: Roundtable, Social, Film, Bookshelf, Music, Recreation and Games, Special Features, House, Publicity, and
Display. Working in separate areas, the committees attempt to fill in and round out Davidson extracurricular life. During the year
there are annual projects like films, tournaments, orientation, the Christmas party, and the Spring Auction. But one of the most
important roles of the Union board is to try to give day-to-day leisure-time entertainment for students, faculty, and staff. This
is partly accomplished by programs like receptions, coffee hours, reviews of the news, and fashion shows. Another way the Union
offers recognition for members of the campus family is through displays and posters. Most important, it offers a meeting ground
for faculty, administration, and students where ideas may be shared and friendships strengthened. Our Union really tries, in short, to
be for us a campus “living room” the place where we, the college family, work and play together in an
attempt to express ourselves and to grow to our greatest extent.

AFTER ABOUT THREE INNINGS THEY COME ALL APART. THIS IS WHAT IS CALLED PLANNED OBSOLESCENCE!
