FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1963

Side Lights! BY RICK LOWERY

A ROUGH SATURDAY ... Last Saturday Davidson's football team generated more offense than in any previous outing; however, they continued
to be plagued by fumbles and interceptions. Fortunately, Lehigh had much the same trouble and this week they alone remain
winless. While Davidson was notching the first win of the season, William and Mary lost their fifth straight game. The
Indians, seen by many as the team to beat in this year’s conference race, have had real difficulty in scoring.
Last week W & M gained a total of 475 yards and yet managed just seven points in losing to
the University of Virginia.

But if William and Mary has lost five straight, there is still little consolation for the ‘Cats. William and Mary
boasts some of the biggest and best football players in the Southern Conference. The front line is anchored by all-conference
tackle John Sapinsky (255 lbs.) and T. W. Alley (250 lbs.), while the backfield boasts such outstanding performers as Bae
Henning and Charles Weaver (called the best small back in this area). But the outstanding name is Bob Soleau, last
year’s most valuable football player in the Southern Conference and a former all-Army performer. Soleau, whose specialty is line-backing, weighs
220 pounds and is described thusly: “He might get tangled up but he’s never blocked.” Saturday could be a rough
day of football for Davidson, but no other game will offer such an opportunity for this team to show itself
just how good it is.

SIX TO NOTHING, NINE AND ONE

Wednesday night, in probably one of the coldest soccer games ever played, Davidson concluded the finest soccer season ever. But
there is no more. Soccer is one of the few sports in which the participating school has no option in
which division (small college or university) it wishes to be classified. In other sports, such as tennis or wrestling, a
school can decide they wish to compete. But not soccer. Since Davidson is a member of the Southern Conference and
competes as a university school in basketball and football, the soccer team is also considered to be a member of
this division. In addition to this, several of Davidson’s opponents are not members of the NCAA and are not considered
by the selection committee. This policy leaves Davidson not with a 9-1 record but a 6-1 record. As a result
of this corrected record, Davidson suffers a substantial loss in the number of points awarded for their record. In this
region, only two teams will receive bids to the national tournament. In this area there are several fine soccer teams—Navy,
Maryland, Howard and Baltimore University. All of these teams play more games than Davidson and as a result accumulate more
points. So for the soccer team there is no more this year, and for several outstanding performers, there is no
more. Among the seniors who brought Davidson a real winner are Lyman Dillon, Gary Lane, Steve Gramley, Tarby Bryant, Fred
Schoen, Dave Olin, Walt Eckman, Dan Adams, Mike Nemir and Sam Glasgow. In addition to these graduating students, four one-year
foreign exchange students deserve mention. They are Eric Heinz, Alan Arthurs, Simon Henson and Gunnar Skagestad. These men are through.
Several other players played a key role in this year’s record but at least one more season remains for them.
THE DAVIDSONIAN congratulates each player, the team, and coaches Harry Fogleman and Paul Marrotte for many hours of enjoyment and
more importantly nine wins.

THE STUDENT COUNCIL STRIKES “USEFULLY”

This week something was done. The Student Council, acting in response to the complaints of the student body and with
the cooperation of Dr. Tom Scott, has opened the gym at night. Beginning Nov. 13, the gymnasium (basketball court, little
gym and handball courts) will be open every Monday, Tuesday and Friday nights from 7:30-9. The problem of opening the
gym at night has existed for some time. A solution to this problem involved several factors often overlooked—basketball practice schedule,
extra money to cover the added necessity of employees to maintain the gym, and the problems of care for the
equipment. These problems have been overcome and a “useful” contribution to student recreation has been made. However, there are responsibilities
involved for the students. Two of these are important, one is that for the program to succeed there must be
a good deal of cooperation between the students and the men who will maintain the gym. The second is that
this program was initiated on the assumption that students do want to use the gym. Needless to say, there is
no need for this program if there will be no students in the gym at night. It still looks as
if it will be a brighter winter for the gym rats.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVID HENDRICKS GOES TO ONE YARD LINE in setting up touchdown against Lehigh. Hendricks was second to Benny Coxton in
rushing yardage for the game.

BY JIM BEASLEY

PAGE THREE

Davidson has played better football than in last Saturday’s contest with Lehigh, but there are few complaints over the first
Wildcat win of the season. The team left this afternoon for Williamsburg, Va., and tomorrow’s game with William and Mary
with the hopeful thought that maybe Davidson can win football games after all. The Indians own a 2-6 record, which
isn’t too respectable. However, Coach Bill Dole warns, “At the beginning of the year I picked William and Mary to
win the conference because of their size and speed.” The two wins of the Indians were over The Citadel and
Furman, both of whom defeated Davidson. In William and Mary’s last game, they lost to Virginia—their fifth straight loss. However,
the margin was only 9-7, and they gained over 425 yards. Davidson has depended on passing to get out of
trouble all season. Last week, with a rearranged backfield, the ’Cats showed they can run with the ball. Behind 0-3
for almost three quarters, Davidson attempted

Hopeful ’Cats Finish 9-1 But NCAA Says Nix

BY ERIC NICHOLS

During the past week, Davidson’s most successful soccer team in school history (9-1) completed their season with wins over Pfeiffer
and Campbell College. The latter game was played under the lights at Richardson Stadium before a spirited crowd. In the
process co-captain Fred Schoen pushed his season total to 13 goals. The game with Pfeiffer last Friday opened with the
same loosely-coordinated effort which resulted in the ‘Cats’ sole loss of the season to N.C. State four weeks ago. According
to Coach Harry Fogleman, it was the “fine teamwork of the fullbacks—Glenn Hanes, Tarby Bryant and Gus Brown—that kept us
in the game.” Fogleman went on to commend the efforts of the other members of his “never-failing” backfield, led by
co-captain Mike Nemir who “contributed his usual one hundred percent effort.” First half action was climaxed as Alan Arthurs pounded
the cage to put Davidson ahead 1-0. The Wildcat line pulled together, but despite its efforts, Pfeiffer tied the score
in the third quarter. Finally, in the fourth quarter the ‘Cats settled down. Fred Schoen popped in

Thinclads Impressive In Prep For SC Meet

BY FORREST ROLES

Last Tuesday Davidson's cross country team finished the dual meet part of its season by crushing High Point 20-39. The
win brought the team’s record up to five wins and three losses. The ‘Cats followed their usual formula of bunching
their first five men close to the top. Tom Heffner, Ronnie Reese, John Barrow, Denny Phillips and Andy Little finished
second through sixth respectively. Tim Subins of High Point finished first with a time of 21:51, a full minute ahead
of the second place man. Heffner, who crossed the finish line in 22:38, and Phillips have both led the ‘Cats
three times this year. Barrow and Reese have led the pack once each. Next Monday Coach Heath Whittle will take
his team to Blacksburg, Va., for the conference meet. “I don't think we can finish in the top three,” he
said, “but we have a darn good chance for fourth.” Whittle feels that West Virginia, Furmanand V.M.I. in that order
should top the conference. Coach Whittle noted that “Our main worry at Blacksburg will be William and Mary. They have
one of the top runners in the conference, so we will have to finish ahead of most of their other
team members to beat them out for fourth place.”

The winning goal after controlling the ball with three bounces off his head. In the Campbell game, Jan Brakel made
the difference in the first half. He headed in one goal and connected on a penalty kick. Fred Schoen netted
his 13th goal of the year and the ‘Cats led at halftime 3-0. The second half found an already spirited
crowd of about 350 getting even more spirited, perhaps in an effort to keep warm. Events on the field, however,
kept things quite warm for Campbell College. Brakel got goal 11 and Walt Eckman connected for his 11th also to
tie for second place scoring honors on the squad. Simon Henson connected in the final period to wrap up the
game for Davidson 6-0. Although the ‘Cats finished with a 9-1 record, they were not awarded an NCAA tournament berth
(See column).

Now At Rush Wilson Ltd.
Patented Nylon-Reinforced Undersingwear

BRIEFS
Nylon-reinforced legbands
SIZES 26 TO 46

T-SHIRTS
Nylon-reinforced crew neckband
SIZES 34 TO 46

Comfort match-mates... the premium combed cotton T-Shirt with the no-sag Nylon reinforced crew neckband and taped shoulders, extra length tail.
Full double-seat briefs have “stretchy-seat,” nylon reinforced legband, and famous comfort-pouch patented for masculine comfort. In sparkling white. Rush Wilson,
Ltd.

Only seven passes, completing two for 16 yards, while the ground attack netted 235 yards. Four fumbles and a pass
interception kept Davidson from scoring the first half. They lost the ball on Lehigh’s 20, 25, and 38-yard line. The
Engineers’ field goal was set up by a first-quarter drive that began with the recovery of a 'Cat fumble. Coming
back strong in the third period, Davidson drove to the Engineer 16, where Jim Terry missed a field goal. Dave
Sprinkle recovered a Lehigh fumble moments later to set up Pack Hindsley’s three-yard plunge for the score. Bill Dole, Jr.
made the extra point for Davidson’s 7-3 lead. Steve Heckard stopped the final Lehigh drive in the fourth period. He
climaxed a fine day of defensive play by intercepting an Engineer pass deep in Davidson territory and returning it back
to midfield. Davidson ran three plays before its first victory of the season became official. The Wildcats stopped Lehigh’s most
dangerous offensive threat, their passing. Thanks to good rushing and a tenacious defensive secondary which seldom allowed receivers to get
open, the Engineers were able to complete only three of 14 passes for 33 yards.

Halfback Benny Coxton atoned for his two fumbles by being the leading ground gainer. Several times he gained crucial yardage
by his deceptive broken field running. He carried 11 times for 75 yards, giving him a 3.9-yard season average. In
his finest game of the year, fullback Dave Hendricks gained 65 yards in 10 carries. Often carrying tacklers with him
for extra yardage, his powerful running helped keep Davidson in the game in the first half. He now owns a
season rushing average of over five yards a carry. With its newly found running game and the passing attack which
has been consistent all season, the Wildcats face William and Mary hoping to do better than last year’s 7-7 tie.

Kappa Sigs Edge Phi Gams To Take IMAC Wrestling
BY DAVID POWELL

Using the experience of several seasoned grapplers, Kappa Sigma managed to take a close win in the Intramural Athletic Council
wrestling, held last Monday and Tuesday nights. Phi Gamma Delta was edged out by a scant three-point margin, while Phi
Delta Theta followed a close third. The winners were led by Ben King, Bill Kendrick, and Butch Allison, who all
won their respective weight classes. Except for Eddie Earle’s fourth place finish in the 167-pound class and the points for
other entries, these three accounted for all the Kappa Sig points.

In the 115-pound class freshman Bob Dugger got the Phi Gams off to a good start in Tuesday’s finals with
a quick pin of George Worthen, Pi Kappa Phi, who had previously pinned three opponents himself. In the 123-pound class,
Greg Reinick fared less well against Independent Joe Buffington, a member of the freshman wrestling team. But Jack Althoff, colorfully
attired in his blue bell-bottoms, put the Phi Gams back in the win column by outpointing KA Duff Armfield in
the 147-pound class. But as the heavier weight matches were held, the Kappa Sigs started to amass their points. Ben
King, a McCallie wrestling product, outpointed Sam Glasgow in spite of a taped right arm. And in one of the
best matches of the tournament, Kappa Sig Bill Kendrick eventually managed to pin Phi Delt Jim Wilson. Wilson led on
points, but a disputed distress call enabled Kendrick to reverse the situation. In the 191 class, Kappa Sig Butch Allison,
weighing only 160, strung together three pins to win. The finals took on an air of levity as short, squat
Allison faced tall, gangly Rufus Adair. But brevity won in the end, as Allison got a quick fall in the
first period.

John Loughridge, scrapping in the 137-pound class, was the sole Phi Delt champion as he outpointed PiKA Preston St. Clair,
who wrestled with a sprained ankle. Besides Wilson, Kenny Painter also got a second place for the Phi Delts, losing
to quick KA Martin Miller, who pinned three straight opponents. In other highlights, KA Bobby Howard took the 167-pound class,
swiftly pinning Pi Kappa Phi John Leet. Long-haired Howard's best competition was furnished by his first-round opponent, Phi Delt strongman
Hoyle Rymer. Howard was unable to get a fall, but finally his superior experience told.

With this win, the Kappa Sigs take a decisive lead in the race for the IMAC cup, currently held by
the Phi Delts. With three sports already played, the race nevertheless promises to be a tight one with several clubs
still in the thick of the competition.

IMAC WRESTLING TOURNAMENT
November 11-12, 1963

ORGANIZATION Score No. Entries
1. Kappa Sigma 54 7
2. Phi Gamma Delta 51 8
3. Phi Delta Theta 49 9
4. Kappa Alpha 43 8
5. Alpha Tau Omega 41 9
6. Beta Theta Pi 35 8
7. Pi Kappa Phi 25 7
8. Sigma Alpha Epsilon 24 10
9. Sigma Chi 17 9
10. Pi Kappa Alpha 15 9
Independents 15 1
12. Sigma Phi Epsilon 10 10
13. Sigma Nu 9 7

It’s invisible, man! It’s incredible, incomparable, infallible! Code 10 for men, the new kind of hairdressing from Colgate-Palmolive. The new
invisible way to groom a man’s hair all day. Non-greasy Code 10 disappears in your hair, gives it the clean,
manly look that inflames women, infuriates inferior men. Be in. Get the non-greasy hairdressing, Code 10. It’s invisible, man!
