FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

HIGHLIGHTS and SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

THINGS AND STUFF

Spring is in the air and mud is on the ground. It’s beginning to look like February downpours bring March
rains which bring April showers. We hope that we've seen the last of the bad weather. So do the coaches
who're trying to get their squads ready for season openers. What better sign of spring is there than the opening
of baseball, tennis, and other sports seasons on Monday? Indoor sports are out and outdoor sports are in. Other signs
of spring are readily apparent. Ray Turner in the equipment room reports that baseball equipment has been checked out. Warm
sunshine tends to make students want to get out and do something. All this fails to impress Turner, however. He’s
been through it all before and says a lot of them will soon be turning their stuff back in and
joining the sunbathing cult.

Graduation losses, injuries, and dropouts have descended like a plague on Coach Harry Fogleman. Things are looking so bad that
with any more trouble he'll be starting his manager in the number six spot on Monday. All coaches don’t have
problems, however. Charlie Parker has only to sit and pleasantly await the arrival of his dream team—the 1963 U.S. Pan-American
wrestling team entry, arriving here in two weeks. Who wouldn’t like to coach the best wrestling team in America?

The person with the longest worry list right now is Coach Bill Dole, trying to round up his annual bunch
of scholarship boys before the April deadline. His bags are unpacked and his traveling is done, but he’s got another
week of sitting by the phone waiting for acceptances. Getting all his boys by the admissions board is another of
Dole’s worries—Why can’t God make all football players smart?

Speaking of recruiting, it’s hard to believe some of these Gargantuan Goliaths that high schools are producing these days—probably because
of the federal milk subsidy. Anyway, Coach Joe Hunt reports that on a recent basketball scouting party, he found a
6’10", 290-pound monster. It turns out that he averages thirty points a game, too. If he comes here it might
necessitate some changes. Move Hetzel to guard and let him play the double pivot by himself. P.S. Warning to the
ROTC supply department. He wears size 19 brogans.

ATHLETIC PROGRAM TOPS

Several times over the past year we have voiced our displeasure with certain aspects of the athletic program at Davidson
and certain policies followed. By these criticisms, however, it has never been meant to imply that we have any basic
objections to the athletic program here. In fact, we believe that one of the most impressive and strongest points of
this college is to be found in its athletic system. The success of our athletic program is to be found
in two particular aspects—first, the number of students participating in the sports curriculum offered, and, second, in the closeness of
the athletes and athletic program with other aspects of the college.

More than one-third of all students at Davidson earn a letter in at least one sport and many others participate.
Also, the intramural program gives the great majority of the student body an opportunity to join in the athletic program.
We believe this to be significant because of the great benefits to the individual, not only physical, but in aiding
adjustment and self-confidence.

The second commendable aspect of the athletic program at Davidson comes mainly from the fact that Davidson is a small
college. For this reason, there is no separation of the athlete from the rest of the school. Sports are a
more integral part of the lives of all students for this reason—everybody knows all or almost all of the boys
playing sports, even if he himself doesn’t play. This causes a greater integration of the athletic program into the purposes
of the school—there is a closeness, an interweaving, of athletics in the life of most students.

MORE HONORS FOR FRED

We sincerely congratulate sophomore Fred Hetzel on his recent choice as Southern Conference player of the year in basketball. There
can be little doubt he earned the honor, although Rod Thorn is a fine ballplayer. Hetzel now has a chance
to do something even the great Jerry West couldn’t—win the honor three times. Also, congratulations to Bill Jarman on being
chosen to play in the Big Five—Carolina’s Conference Senior All-Star game.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead, N.C.

Spring Sports Open Slate

Baseball, Golf, And Tennis Have Same Opening Date

One of the surest signs of spring is the annual move of sports back outdoors. Winter sports are over—swimming, wrestling,
and indoor track having their tournaments last week, and basketball the week before. On Monday all the spring sports except
track open their seasons. The tennis team opens in a four-way match with The Citadel, George Washington, and Furman, and
baseball has the 'Cats against Pfeiffer.

Next Monday Davidson's baseball team opens its season here against Pfeiffer College. This will be the second game for Pfeiffer,
since they played Belmont Abbey this week. Coach Tom Stevens has not decided who will start the first game of
the season. “We've just had too few days of good weather for me to make all the decisions,” he said.
“It's going to be sort of an exhibition game. I'll pitch three or four pitchers and make a good many
substitutions.” Although Pfeiffer, unlike Davidson, grants some baseball scholarships, the 'Cats have usually been able to handle them. Last year
the ‘Cats took a slugfest, 11-9, at Davidson. The second game had to be canceled because of rain.

The addition of Charlie Marcon to the catching corps seems to have removed one of the big “ifs” Coach Stevens
enumerated at the beginning of practice. Marcon and letterman Eddie Barle should handle the receiver’s job adequately this year. But
there still remains the other “if”—how well the rich pitching potential will shape up. “It’s too early to tell,” says
Coach Stevens. “If Barry Teague, Dave Johnson, and Ronnie Rudolph work into shape, and Tom Hamilton and Earle Cole regain
their form of two years ago, I can use Jim Moore in the bullpen. That would give us a strong
staff. Anyway, we'll know by the time we start conference play.”

The freshman team opened its season today against Harding High School in Charlotte. Coach Joe Hunt is as non-committal as
Coach Stevens. “I can't tell yet,” he said when asked how his team will do this year. “The potential is
there, so don't worry about us,” he said.

Indoor Track Ends At ACC Tournament

BY DENNY PHILLIPS Sports Staff Writer

Last Saturday the tenth annual ACC indoor track meet was held at Chapel Hill. An outstanding performance put in by
the Wildcat thinclads, running in the non-conference part of the tourney, was put in by Sterling Martin in the two-mile
run. Martin finished second to Furman’s Dennis Patterson in the race, but nevertheless set a new Davidson record for the
two-mile run, both on indoor and outdoor tracks. Martin’s time of 9:39 clipped ten seconds off the old Davidson record.
Although 17 seconds behind Patterson's spectacular 9:22, Martin's time was also better than the old meet record, and was better
than the winning time for the ACC teams.

Sophomore Alan Turner had trouble with the slippery floor, but managed to tie for second in the 70-yard low hurdles
and fourth in the 60-yard dash. “All in all, we've had a very fine indoor season,” said Coach Heath Whittle.
“The boys should have a really good team this spring. None of them has fulfilled his capabilities yet. Yes, it
should be a very fine track year indeed.” The first outdoor meet will be held on March 27.

DA HIGHWAY 29

WEDNESDAY NIGHTS: Golden Fried Chicken (2) FRIDAY NIGHTS: “All the Fish You Can Eat” SAT. NIGHTS: Buffet Supper American-Continental Foods
6:00 - 9:00 P.M.

IA RESTAURANT CONCORD, N. C.

The Dunes Golf Club in Myrtle Beach, S. C., will host a four-way Southern Conference match on Monday afternoon as
the Wildcat linksters open their season against The Citadel, George Washington, and Furman. Team Coach Dr. Tom Scott commented, “The
Citadel and Furman will be really good. Both of them finished high in the conference tournament last year, and The
Citadel has a good chance of winning it this year.” All three squads boast outstanding players. Last year's medalist winner,
Walt Smith, is back at Furman, and Bob Haney, co-medalist two years ago, is heading the Indian golfers. Also, Bill
Ethridge from The Citadel was one of the top six scorers in last season’s tourney.

Following Monday's match, the linksters meet George Washington again in Gastonia on Tuesday. Scott believes that the Cats will be
able to take the Indian golfers. Bob Bost, Jim Cooper, Frank McPhillips, Mims Rodgers, Bill Ross, Tom Romoda, and Mackey
McClelland will be making the trip to Myrtle Beach, and Haywood Evans will join the squad when they play in
Gastonia. Scott believes that his team will be aided substantially by the addition of four good sophomores and should finish
with a better record than last season. “None of the boys are great, but we've got a solid group,” he
added.

Freshman golfers open against Oak Ridge on May 29. Big guns on the frosh squad should be Howard Covington and
Mac Mclver.

As the word comes from Coach Harry Fogleman, this year’s tennis squad faces an uphill fight in its matches. There
are 25 matches scheduled for this season, and in Fogleman's estimation they are better than those of previous years. “I
just hope we don’t have a losing season,” he moans, “because then I might become disagreeable.” The team opens with
Kent State University at Davidson on Monday. This promises to be no easier than the rest of the year, since
Kent State is usually ranked third or fourth in the Mid-American Conference. The weather has also put a damper on
Davidson's team, and they have been able to practice only four days so far. Part of the cloudy prospects for
this year’ssquad stems from the loss of four top men from the 1962 team. In addition, two probable starters have
dropped out of school. Sophomores Frank Baumgardner and Rick Reed will be filling some shoes, and Fogleman expects them to
help the team more as the season progresses. Bill Schutt, temporarily out with an injured knee, will probably hit the
rackets later on. Bob Austell returns from last year’s team, and will hold down the number one position. Gene McCutchen
at number two, Bill Backlund at number four, and John Ariail at number five round out the squad. All have
seen service before, so inexperience should not figure too greatly as the team faces its opponents. This year's freshman team
is “real good", and should provide talent in future years. Montanan Dick Hurd and highly touted Woody Cleveland have shown
considerable promise. Cleveland will be able to demonstrate it when the freshmen take on his former schoolmates from Woodbury Forest
on Monday, March.

THE ONLY PLACE TO PRACTICE last Monday was in the gym and the baseball team had to make the best
of it since they open in less than a week. Here BARRY TEAGUE, only a week back from the conference
basketball tourney, gets his throwing arm back in shape. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

‘Cats Finish Fourth In Mat Tournament

Sunday the Matmen returned from the Southern Conference Wrestling Tournament with a fourth place. The conference tournament was held at
West Virginia University in Morgantown as part of its Centennial Year program. The Citadel, Davidson, VMI, VPI, and West Virginia
competed for individual and team honors in the matches on March 8 and 9. After the finals on Saturday night
Davidson finished with 24 team points, ahead of VMI's 18. Va. Tech won the tournament with 73 points over W.
Va. (63 points) and The Citadel (43 points). Individual conference champions were as follows: 123 lb. — Venturino (VPI); 130
lb. — Barcello (C); 137 lb. — Ellerman (VPI); 147 lb. — Church (WV); 157 lb. — Callahan (VPI); 167
lb. — Rihn (WV); 177 lb. — ); and heavyweight — Marks (VPI). Davidson honors included fourth place wins from
Russell Walls, Joe Jones, and Bill Mills. Tom Wright was pinned in the finals and took a second. Mike Bisard
gave the Wildcats their best representation with his performances in the 123 lb. slot. In the semi-finals he pinned West
Virginia’s Cain and in the finals lost a tough match (9-7) to two-time conference champion Ernie Venturino. Only two members
graduate this year. Coach Parker feels that next year’s team should be even stronger and looks forward to another Best
Year.

Independents Unbeaten In I-F Basketball Race

As interfraternity basketball moves into its final stages, the Independents hold a strong lead and look like a shoo-in for
the championship. If they do so, it will be the first time that they have captured the basketball crown. With
four games to go and victories over most of the other top teams under their belts, they have a strong
chance of coming through undefeated. The battle for the league second spot is tight, with the Phi Gams, Phi Delts,
ATO’s, and Kappa Sigs making it anybody’s race. The Kappa Sigs received a heavy setback on Monday to their hopes
of repeating the basketball championship this year when the KA’s handed them their second loss of the season, 54-53, in
a hotly contested game. In the only other close action on Monday, the ATO’s managed to slip by the Betas
55-53 and run their record to 6-2. Last night saw the Sigma Chis score an upset over the Phi Gams
and virtually knock them from any chance of capturing the league championship. It was a close battle all the way
but the Chis pulled it out, 46-45. The Independents continued their winning ways but not without difficulties. Trailing the KA's
late in last night’s game they rallied and dropped the KA's to their fourth loss, 55-46. The Phi Delts and
Kappa Sigs both pulled in victories, keeping the race for the second spot as close as ever. The Sigs romped,
53-39, over the SAE’s, and the Delts added the Pikas to their list of victims.

MONDAY’S GAMES
SAE’s 45 Sigma Nus 37
KA’s 54 Kappa Sigs 53
ATO’s 55 Betas 53
Phi Gams 60 SPE’s 39

TUESDAY’S GAMES
Betas 50 SPE's 32
Sigma Chis 40 Pikas 31
Sigma Nus 42 Pi Kapps 30

THURSDAY'S ACTION
Sigma Chis 46 Phi Gams 45
Independents 55 KA’s 46
Phi Delts 49 Pikas 39
Kappa Sigs 53 SAE's 39

STANDINGS
Independents
Kappa Sigs
Phi Delts
Phi Gams
ATO's
Sigma Chis
SAE’s
Betas
KA’s
Sigma Nus
Pikas
Pi Kapps
SPE’s

BY DENNY PHILLIPS
Sports Staff Writer

At the annual Southern Conference Rifle Meet, the Wildcat marksmen will shoot it out with seven other teams tomorrow at
Ft. Lee, Va. “There'll be some stiff competition up there,” stated rifle team Coach Charles Partridge. “While we're not expected
to win the thing, I'm sure the boys will be up for it and give a good showing for themselves.”
Last Friday the 'Cat marksmen totaled up the highest score ever recorded by a Davidson rifle squad in firing in
the Western Carolina Tournament. The team score was 1400 which bettered the old record by nine points. High Scorer in
the match was senior Bill Blakley, shooting an impressive 292 out of a possible 300, tying his own school record.
Second and third high for the 'Cat’s were Ronnie Rudolph with 282 and Dick Forrester with 281. Other teams at
the tournament were Clemson, Davidson, Furman, Presbyterian, and Wofford. Although the ‘Cats placed highest on Saturday they only took a
second in the Western Carolina Conference as it is based on the average scores for the whole season. So far
this season the team has a 13-8 record. The team will be hurt by the loss of Blakley but several
top sophomores and freshmen should be able to take his place.

On Campus with Max Shulman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf,” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

HOW TO GET EDUCATED ALTHOUGH ATTENDING COLLEGE

In your quest for a college degree, are you becoming a narrow specialist, or are you being educated in the
broad, classical sense of the word? This question is being asked today by many serious observers—including my barber, my roofer,
and my little dog Spot—and it would be well to seek an answer.

Are we becoming experts only in the confined area of our majors, or does our knowledge range far and wide?
Do we, for example, know who fought in the Battle of Jenkins’ Ear, or Kant’s epistemology, or Planck's constant, or
Valsalva’s maneuver, or what Wordsworth was doing ten miles above Tintern Abbey? If we do not, we are turning, alas,
into specialists. How then can we broaden our vistas, lengthen our horizons—become, in short, educated?

Well sir, the first thing we must do is throw away our curricula. Tomorrow, instead of going to the same
old classes, let us try something new. Let us not think of college as a rigid discipline, but as a
kind of vast academic smorgasbord, with all kinds of tempting intellectual tidbits to savor. Let’s start sampling tomorrow. We will
begin the day with a stimulating seminar in Hittite artifacts. Then we will go over to marine biology and spend
a happy hour with the sea anemones. Then we'll go to the law school and sue somebody. Then we'll go
to journalism and tear out the front page. Then we'll go to the medical school and autograph some casts. Then
we'll go to home economics and have lunch. And between classes we'll smoke Marlboro Cigarettes. This, let me emphasize, is
not an added fillip to the broadening of our education. This is an essential. To learn to live fully and
well is an important part of education, and Marlboros are an important part of living fully and well. What a
sense of comfort we get from Marlboro’s fine tobaccos, from Marlboro’s pure filter! What flavor Marlboro delivers! Through that immaculate
filter comes flavor in full measure, flavor without stint or compromise, flavor that wrinkled care derides, flavor holding both its
sides. This triumph of the tobacconist’s art comes to you in soft pack or Flip-Top box and can be lighted
with match, lighter, candle, Welsbach mantle, or by rubbing two small Indians together.

When we have embarked on this new regimen—or, more accurately, lack of regimen—we will soon be cultured as all get
out. When strangers accost us on the street and say, “What was Wordsworth doing ten miles above Tintern Abbey, hey?”
we will no longer slink away in silent abashment. We will reply loud and clear: “As any truly educated person
knows, Wordsworth, Shelley, and Keats used to go to the Widdicombe Fair every year for the pie-eating contests and sack
races, both of which they enjoyed lyrically. Well sir, imagine their chagrin when they arrived at the Fair in 1776
and learned that Oliver Cromwell, who had just invented the penny, had canceled all fairs, including the Widdicombe Fair and
Pall Mall. Wordsworth ran blindly into the forest until he collapsed in a heap ten miles above Tintern Abbey. There
he lay for several years, sobbing and kicking his little fat legs. At length, peace returned to him. He looked
around, noted the beauty of the forest, and was so moved that he wrote Joyce Kilmer’s immortal Trees... And that,
gentlemen, is what Wordsworth was doing ten miles above Tintern Abbey.”

© 1963 Max Shulman

Poets and peasants, students and teachers, ladies and gentlemen—all know you get a lot to like in a Marlboro—available wherever
cigarettes are sold in all 50 States.
