THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1963
PAGE FOUR

In Post-Sermon Discussion, Coffin Buries Formality

The Davidson College students who attended vespers last Sunday did not hear the real Reverend William Coffin speak. That privilege was reserved to the few faithful who attended the informal discussion in the Student Lounge of the College Church.

Using language that “I wanted to use in the service, but didn’t because of the two little old ladies on the first row,” Coffin urged his listeners, both white and black, to actively begin to end all discrimination in the town of Davidson. Perhaps the most significant part of his message to those gathered in the lounge was overlooked as the discussion ranged from the reality of an absolute value to the question of civil rights legislation. At least there was no visible reaction from the audience composed mainly of southern whites, with two students from the Congo, when Coffin said, “I think it’s shameful not to do something toward ending discrimination. The first thing you here have got to do is to see what the Negro leaders in the town are doing and tie in all your efforts with them. The first thing to do always is find out the facts. If you find that they are doing nothing, then you can get together with students from Johnson C. Smith and see about desegregating the facilities around here. You won’t be causing trouble for anybody. The trouble is already there.”

Other than the above call to action, Coffin, a member of the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund and the Freedom of Residence Fund, made no specific appeal to students except to urge both Africans present to use their influence in as constructive a manner as possible. But throughout the majority of the evening, Coffin answered questions in such a way as to give his views about why integration in every phase of public life was desirable to the Christian. He also expressed strong desires to see President Kennedy’s Civil Rights Bill become law. He said no Christian could live in the truth of the Absolute, God, and practice discrimination. “If God loves all men equally,” he argued, “it means all men are of equal value. Every man’s value is the same in a basic Christian concept. You can’t make distinctions that God doesn’t make.” When asked about the problem of reconciling property rights to the rights of the Negro, Coffin posed a question of his own: “Should property rights...

FIRST STEP in acting in a play is the try-out. Above, two Davidson students — Edward Dwelle, a freshman, and Jon Miller, a junior — read through parts of Oscar Wilde’s farce, “The Importance of Being Earnest,” accompanied by the fairer sex. (Photo by Yarborough)

Drama Group To Perform “Being Earnest” By Wilde
By TOM PEADEN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Importance of Being Earnest, by Oscar Wilde, to be presented by the department of drama and speech and by the Vagabonds, marks the beginning of a cycle that R. T. Barber Jr., director of drama, envisions as a four-year drama program. Considered by many critics to be the “perfect” English farce, Wilde’s drama will be presented Oct. 30-31 and Nov. 1-2 at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Auditorium. According to Barber, the purpose of this four-year cycle is to present examples of all styles of drama from the Greek theater to the “theater of the absurd.” Barber chose Wilde's play as the first major production because he has always wanted to direct it and feels that it will fit into the four-year program since it is one of the best examples of the English farce in drama.

There will be two other major productions this year, the second on Feb. 19-22 being a serious play that was significant in the early modern theatrical movement; the third, a contemporary American drama, to be presented April 29-May 2. Barber has chosen to limit the number of productions to three because he feels that otherwise the time element is too rushed by having to begin another production as soon as one is finished. In addition to these three major productions, the drama workshop will be continued, and Barber hopes to inaugurate a freshman workshop. Of these workshops, which serve as a training program in acting, directing, and stage design, two will be presented by the drama class. These workshops will have one performance and will be geared to the one-act play. Although there will be no contest among original student plays this year, Barber will be available to read original student plays and, if warranted, will possibly produce some of them.

Two Graduates Recipients Of Fulbright Scholarships

Two Davidson graduates—John McElfresh of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Neil Nichols of Dallas, Tex.—are recipients of Fulbright-Hays Scholarships for study abroad during the current school year. They are among approximately 800 students awarded grants for graduate study during the academic year 1963-64 under the international educational exchange program of the U.S. Department of State. The students are selected by the Board of Foreign Scholarships, the members of which are selected by the President of the United States. The program, provided for by the Fulbright-Hays Act of 1961, also provides opportunities for foreign students to study in American colleges and for the exchange of teachers and scholars between the United States and more than one hundred foreign countries annually involving 6,000 students, scholars, and teachers. While at Davidson, McElfresh was a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity and president of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity. He plans to use his award for study in Mexico in the field of Spanish. Nichols was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, served as president of the YMCA, and was selected for Who's Who Among Students In American Colleges and Universities. He will use his grant to study at University of Teheran, Iran, in the field of Iranian culture. Professor J. O. Embry, chairman of the Foreign Study Committee of the faculty, has announced that application blanks for 1964-65 grants may be secured from him now. Dr. Embry emphasized that interested seniors should pick up applications as soon as possible since the completed forms have to be returned to him by the end of October. The three types of graduate fellowships — U.S. government full grants, joint U.S.-other government grants, and U.S. government travel-only grants—are administered by the Institute of International Education. A joint U.S.-other government grant is offered cooperatively by the U.S. Government providing for travel and a foreign government sponsoring tuition and maintenance. Joint awards are available for study in 18 countries including the Dominican Republic, Poland, Venezuela, Mexico, and Ecuador. General eligibility requirements for all types of the Fulbright grants are U.S. citizenship at the time of application, a bachelor’s degree or equivalent before the beginning date of the grant, good health, and a language proficiency sufficient to carry out the proposed study project and for general communication. A local faculty committee must pass on the Davidson applicants and then forward the applications on to Washington for final selection. Scholarships for study abroad sponsored by Rotary International are handled by Dr. Embry. Applications for these grants have to be completed by the spring of the student's junior year.

Ensemble To Give Concert Sunday

The Davidson College Wind Ensemble will play its first concert of the season Sunday, September 22, at 3:30 on the lawn in the Cunningham Fine Arts Quadrangle. Presented on the program will be works chosen for family enjoyment and will include selections from South Pacific, “Caribbean Fantasy,” “Teddy Bear’s Picnic,” “The Toy Trumpet” featuring trumpet soloist Mal Lane, three marches, and will begin with a brilliant chorale prelude by William Latham, “Now Thank We All Our God.” In the event of inclement weather, the concert will take place in Hodson Hall of the Fine Arts Center.

Student Council (Continued From Page One)

people who had taken them. It would contain valuable information on the strength and weakness of various departments and the professors, and be sold to the students to cover expenses. Along the same line, Walt MacDonald proposed that Davidson poll 60 to 70 neighboring colleges and ask both students and faculty to evaluate chapel speakers and their topics. This information would then be compiled and distributed to colleges all over. Spratt brought up the question of books lost or stolen from the library and the group decided that some policy must be defined concerning this. Special projects announced by Spratt were (1) investigation of an independent reading program and (2) the feasibility of setting up a reading period before graduate exams. He also mentioned that a revision of the election system be brought up later. Spratt reaffirmed next Monday as the day set aside for the presentation of the Richardson Scholars in assembly.

Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Wildcat Pep Band Performs Tonight

The Davidson College Wildcat Pep Band opens its 1963 season tonight at Charlotte Memorial Stadium at the Davidson-Catawba game. The 25-member band is under the direction of John Paul Causey, a junior from West Point, Va. He succeeds Kurtis Hess, the organizer of the pep band and a 1963 graduate of Davidson. Causey is a history major and a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. Present plans are for the group to play at all home games and for the William and Mary game which will be played in Williamsburg on Nov. 16. Tentative plans have also been made for the band to play for basketball games played at the Charlotte Coliseum during regular school session. The Wildcat Band was begun four years ago by Hess to provide a musical organization for athletic events.reject or deflect human rights?” He then gave an answer based on what he called a Christian viewpoint of property. “We Christians use property not as a means of enhancing one’s status over another but to facilitate human relationships,” he said. “One can’t make an absolute out of property rights. But this is what Americans are so hipped on. I think the Kennedy administration’s program of civil rights is extreme only to an extreme property rights man.”

Coffin was asked by a student if he thought it were possible for Congress to legislate morality. “I think it's quite true you can’t legislate attitude or morality,” was the answer. “But I think you can legislate conditions that are more conducive to morality,” he added.

Coffin did say that he believed a civil rights law should only apply to public places. “I don’t care where you practice discrimination, it's morally wrong. Even in private clubs. But I wouldn't care to see the law go in there because it can do more harm there.”

Coffin made the point that he thought discrimination was another form of idolatry. And as he did the entire evening, he used a laugh-drawing anecdote to illustrate his view. He told of a student from Ghana who terribly perplexed the good Christian Americans around Yale by saying, “When I came over and saw the Statue of Liberty, I thought it would be facing the other way.”

At 10:25 Coffin ended his informal chat with the rather large gathering still present by injecting a note of gloom and a hint of a warning: “I think we'll be lucky if we don’t have a major Negro revolt. It won’t happen in North Carolina, but in the major urban centers because it is compounded with economic difficulties.” He indicated the only solution would be the solution to America’s problem of the poor.

But Coffin couldn't leave the church in an unhappy mood. The gregarious man was laughing with the students when he left. “A jazz liturgical service is to be one of the highlights of this fall’s Methodist Student Fellowship programs,” said Paul Lowder, new minister of the Davidson Methodist Church. He continued, “However, the most controversial, without doubt, will be the dramatized conversation of a couple in a parked car. This we have scheduled the week preceding Homecoming.”

Rev. Paul Lowder, successor to Rev. Russell Montfort as pastor of the Davidson Methodist Church, is a native of Albemarle. He attended Pfeiffer Junior College and received his BA degree from Albion College in Michigan. After completion of undergraduate work, Lowder entered Candler School of Theology where he was awarded a BD degree.

He is married to Martha Blackburn Lowder and has two children, Paula and Karen. Before his family’s coming to Davidson, they resided in Conover where Lowder was pastor of the First Methodist Church. During the past several years Lowder has written numerous articles for magazines and newspapers. These literary efforts have culminated in a new volume, published this spring by the Upper Room, entitled Let Us Pray. While primarily designed for ministers, the book is of value to the general public.

In addition to the two provocative programs already mentioned, Lowder said that the MSF, under the leadership of President Steve Gramley, has scheduled other interesting fall programs. The first program, held tonight, is a quiz “What Do You Believe?” This quiz is taken from Motive magazine and enables the student to classify himself in any category from Humanist to Neo-Orthodox.

Drop-Out Per Cent Up Slightly

For the first time in three years, the percentage of drop-outs at Davidson has increased. During the past three years, 5% per cent of the returning student body transferred or roughly 36 students. With a larger student body, the number of drop-outs at 5% per cent comes to 42 students.

Actually, 54 students dropped out of Davidson this year, 7 per cent of the upperclassmen, 12 more students than predicted, and an increase of 1% per cent. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts said that dropouts had “never been a serious problem.” Burts added that a new regulation was a significant factor in the increase of drop-outs. “If a student has not graduated in four full years at Davidson, he can not come back during the fall semester but has to wait until either spring semester or summer school.” Burts could attribute at least 5 drop-outs to this new factor.

H. Edmonds White, assistant director of admissions, confirmed that a few more students than usual had dropped out for one reason or another. He expressed concern over the problem but explained, “This happens on every college campus.” White added, “I think our percentage of drop-outs is excellent compared with other good colleges and their percentage of return.”

VISIT THE Tastee Freeze In Cornelius

MILK SHAKES
HOT DOGS
CONES
HAMBURGERS
CHEESEBURGERS
FRENCH FRIES

Open Weekdays Till 10
Sunday Till 9

Blue Cross Blue Shield STUDENT CERTIFICATE

Comprehensive health protection for college and trade school students under 24 years of age and in good health. — Individual or Family Plan. For details mail coupon to...

HOSPITAL CARE ASSOCIATION
DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA

Please send me information on the Blue Cross-Blue Shield STUDENT CERTIFICATE.

Name: _______________
Address: _______________
City: _______________
State: _______________

ON CAMPUS

(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” "Barefoot Boy With Cheek” and, ONCE MORE UNTO THE BREACH, DEAR FRIENDS)

Today I begin my tenth year of writing this column in your campus newspaper. Ten years is a long time; it is, in fact, what some scholarly people like to call a decade—from the Latin word decum, meaning the floor of a ship. It is, to my mind, remarkable that the Romans had such a word as decum when you consider that ships did not exist until 1620 when John Alden invented the Mayflower. Alden, a prodigiously ingenious man, also invented the ear lobe and Pocahontas.

Ships were a very popular mode of travel—especially over water—until 1912 when the Swede, Ivar Krueger, invented the iceberg. Krueger also invented the match, which is a good thing, because without the match, how would you light your Marlboro Cigarettes? I cannot overstress the importance of lighting your Marlboro Cigarettes, for Marlboro Cigarettes, unlighted, provide, at best, only limited smoking pleasure.

I mention Marlboros because this column is an advertisement, brought to you through the school year by the makers of Marlboros. Marlboros come in soft pack or Flip-Top box. The makers of Marlboros come in dark suits with thin lapels—except on weekends when they come in yoke-neck jerseys and white duck trousers. White ducks come in flocks. They are primarily fresh water dwellers, although they have been successfully raised in salt water too. Another salt water denizen I’m sure you will find enjoyable is plankton—a mess of tiny organisms like diatoms and algae and like that which float sluggishly near the surface of the sea. It is ironic that these creatures, microscopic in size, should supply the principal source of food for the earth’s largest animal, the whale. Whales, I must say, are not at all pleased with this arrangement, because it takes the average whale, eating steadily, 48 hours to gather a day’s meal. This leaves them almost no time for water sports or reading Melville. It is a lucky thing for all of us that whales are unaware they are mammals, not fish, and could, if they tried, live just as well on land as in water. I mean, you add ten or twelve million whales to our Sunday traffic and you would have congestion that makes the mind boggle.

But I digress. Today, I was saying, I begin my tenth year writing this column for Marlboro Cigarettes in your campus newspaper. I will, in each column, say a few kind words about Marlboros—just as you will, once you try that fine tobacco flavor, that pristine white filter, that supple soft pack, that infrangible Flip-Top box. These references to Marlboro will be brief and unobtrusive, for I do not believe in the hard sell. What I favor is the soft sell—you might even call it the limp or spongy sell. I hasten to state that the makers of Marlboro in ten full years have not once complained about my desultory sales approach. Neither have they paid me. But that is of small consequence.

Aside from fleeting mentions of Marlboro, this column has another, and more urgent, mission: to cast the hot white light of free inquiry upon the vexing questions that trouble college America—questions like “Should the Student Council have the power to levy tariffs?” and “Are roommates sanitary?” and “Should housemothers be compelled to retire upon reaching the age of 26?” Perhaps, reasoning together, we can find the answers. Perhaps not. But if we fail, let it never be said that it was for want of trying.

I thank you.

© 1963 Max Shulman

The makers of Marlboro are happy to bring you another year of Max Shulman’s unpredictable and uncensored column—and also happy to bring you fine filtered Marlboros, available in pack or box, wherever cigarettes are sold.