FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Side Lights
BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

FOOTBALL....

Last Saturday Danny Donovan, Furman, and old man weather gave Davidson its first defeat of the season. To many observers this first game was a dismal preview to a dismal season. On the other hand, a great many observers will go along with an old adage—one game does not a season make.

The weather was the same for both teams in Greenville Saturday and yet Furman turned fumbles and a pass interception into short scoring threats to tally their 17 points. Weather was dismal but was Davidson really that dismal?

All night long Furman failed to mount any real sustained offense against the ’Cats. The interior line contained the rushing game, and Furman’s famed halfback sweep never really materialized. What Davidson was unable to stop were the rollouts of quarterback Donovan and his remarkable passing. If the Davidson defense was up to snuff what about the offense? Once again I believe the interior line showed it was able to open holes throughout the game. What the offense lacked was any successful variety. The option plays and the pass plays seemed to bog down in the chill drizzle and failed to produce any push until the last minutes of the game. The real factors that separated Davidson and Furman were fumbles and an occasional lapse in the pass defense. These mistakes didn’t necessarily lead directly to scores, but they were responsible for Davidson's inability to keep possession of the football.

A great many words have been written about field position. In a game so influenced by poor weather, field position becomes even more important. As an example, in the opening minutes of the Furman game, Davidson missed a field goal opportunity. Even though they had failed to score, Davidson had Furman deep in their own territory where a punt would probably give Davidson another scoring opportunity or a mistake would be fatal.

Instead, it was Davidson who made the mistake. A moment’s confusion in the defensive backfield led to a pass play which covered about 55 yards. Furman in turn missed their field goal attempt but now it was Davidson who had their back to the wall. Fumbles, mistakes and interceptions similarly cost Davidson field position throughout the game, and in the final analysis this is what really beat Davidson. Furman made mistakes but they made them when they could well afford them.

Davidson was unable to afford such mistakes most of the evening. In fact, it is difficult to say just how good the Davidson offense is—they didn’t have the ball often or long enough Saturday night. In all fairness to Furman they won the game Saturday night, 17-0; the scoreboard said so. But if you thought that was a dismal team Davidson put on the field in their debut, you missed something. For in all fairness to Davidson, their record stands 1 win and 1 loss and their preseason game scrimmage was anything but dismal.

NEW YEAR....

Tuesday night this year’s intramural athletics committee met for the first time. The meeting resulted in the announcement that flickerball will begin Monday, Sept. 23, and that golf will begin immediately. All further information on these two sports is available to the fraternities through their representatives.

To most Davidson students, intramurals are their only personal connection with competitive athletics while they are in college. For this reason, it is one area of activity in which almost all students participate. In past years this program has been noted for the competition and effort put forth by a real host of Davidson students. Perhaps few people remember or even care who won the trophy or who won an individual championship. But I'd bet in some houses there are boys who remember the first time their fraternity won a basketball game. Or I'll bet the fraternity that has won three basketball championships in the last five years. Or I'll bet there are men who remember, if only they remember, setting a new swimming or track record. Or there is even the memory of a team that lost to a future champion and in doing so aroused the championship team to cry and beg and beat their heads to win.

Intramurals have been successful at Davidson. They've been a lot of fun and the subject of a lot of talk. The IMAC seems prepared to do its job. If the program continues to lose interest as it did last year, it will be the doing of the students because they are the program.

FRESHMEN

If you're a freshman you've already been told that seasoned squad with sufficient depth in both backfield and line. According to Fogleman these twenty-five men should make a good, workable squad. He further commented that without the very able assistance of Dr. Paul Marrotte, former head soccer coach, it would be almost a panegyrical trying to manage such a large group. Fogleman stated, “Our worst problem is conditioning. As yet, no one on the team could go a full game, although several of the boys did begin working out during rush week.” The squad has a week and a half left before booting it out with Belmont Abbey, the victim of an 8-1 stomping last year. Returning from the Wildcat team (6-2) of a year ago and showing a lot of promise are linemen Fred Shoen, Jan Brakel, Mike Nemir, and Walt Eckman. Because of senior losses Nemir has been switched from line to backfield, along with lettermen Glenn Hanes and Tarby Bryant.

Fall Tourney Kicks Off Tennis Season
BY BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Assistant Sports Editor

Coach Harry Fogleman announced this week his tentative plans for the 1964 tennis season. In effect, the season gets underway Monday afternoon at 2 p.m. with the first rounds of a double elimination tournament designed to select the squad. The participants in the tournament will consist of last year’s freshman team and returning linemen Fred Shoen, Jan Brakel, Mike Nemir, and Walt Eckman. Because of senior losses Nemir has been switched from line to backfield, along with lettermen Glenn Hanes and Tarby Bryant.

Fogleman And Marrotte Greet 25 For First Practice
BY ERIC NICHOLS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The soccer team, under the tutelage of Coach Harry Fogleman, opened their season Monday with twenty-five players reporting for practice. Senior goalie Lyman Dillon has been working out with Hamie McCutchen, who before receiving an injury was described by Fogleman as “one of the finest goalies Davidson has ever had.” Some of this season's other hopefuls are Allan Arthurs, Richardson Scholar from England, who incidentally may be filling the shoes of last year's English Richardson Scholar and standout Allen Jones. Other fine performances are being turned out by seniors Sam Glasgow and Bruce Swain and by junior Bill Rule. Representing the sophomores are wings Ben Nzengu and Lewis Foss, back Gus Brown and Lee Fanning. Coach Fogleman is looking to these four sophomores for added power in a tough ten-game schedule. Although making no strong commitment

THREE AND SOON TO BE FOUR
Furman tacklers down Davidson's Benny Coxton as Coach Dole’s pre-season optimism was only slightly dimmed by the disappointing loss. Except for the costly errors the Wildcats turned in a creditable performance. A summary of the Furman scoring shows how quarterback Danny Donovan converted Davidson mistakes into Paladin points. Russ Walls trails play in Saturday's action. Late in the first quarter Furman halfback Sam Pickens intercepted a Benny Coxton pass at the Furman 49 and raced to the ‘Cat 20 before he was knocked out of bounds. Several plays later Donovan rolled out from the 5 and then cut inside to cross the goal line. Cordell added the extra point with 1:35 gone in the second quarter. In the same period Davidson mounted a drive to the Furman 35. A fumble returned the ball to Furman. After twelve plays they reached the Davidson 14 where Powers kicked a field goal.about his team Fogleman says, “If we get the first one under our belts with the sophomores in there, we'll be in good shape.” He points out that the Davidson soccer eleven is set up for scoring with last year’s leading scorer, inside forward Fred Shoen, along with hustling junior Jan Brake. As a possible starting lineup, Fogleman suggested wings Foss and Nzengu, inside men Brake and Arthurs, and center Shoen. Possible backfield men might be halfbacks Gary Duane and Nemir, converted to give the Paladins center fullback Tarby Bryant, and fullback Hanes and Brown with Dillon as goalie. This team depends, of course, on the performance of the individual players during the coming 10 days.

Neither team could muster a sustained drive in the third quarter. In the final period, Furman recovered another Davidson fumble at their own 41. They drove to the Wildcat 25 where Powers set up to attempt another field goal. Instead, holder Donovan suddenly stood up and passed to Pickens at the 10. A couple of plays later, fullback Keller rounded right end to score. Cordell again converted to give the Paladins a 17-0 lead. Davidson’s final drive was halted at the Furman 22 by a third fumble. Despite the expensive mistakes, the team shows promise in several respects. The line, particularly guards Russ Walls and Morris Williams, did a fine job containing the Paladin ground attack. Highly-rated Keller and halfback John Cook, the two leading ground gainers in the conference last season, were held to 38 and 8 yards respectively.

Davidson's old punting problem may finally be solved. Jim Fuller kicked 4 times for a respectable 36-yard average. A fifth punt of 75 yards was called back because the ‘Cats were offside. Veteran quarterback Earl Cole completed 8 of 16 passes. His fine showing will return him to the starting position tonight. Billy Mills had a fine game at end, making several spectacular catches. Leading ground gainer for both teams was fullback Pat Fisher with 46 yards in eleven carries. The major defensive weaknesses proved to be pass defense and end play. Furman was allowed 119 yards through the air. The Paladins completed six of seventeen attempts for a 20-yard average. Furman’s major ground yardage was due to their ability to outflank the defensive ends.

It's Wildcats And Indians In Legion Stadium Tonight

Last week at Greenville, mistakes—three fumbles and an intercepted pass—cost the ’Cats a football game. Practice this week was aimed at ensuring that they will not be repeated tonight against Catawba. Catawba brings a veteran team to Memorial Stadium in Charlotte tonight. The Indians lost only five lettermen last year and return with twenty. Most formidable among these veterans is the passing team of quarterback Bill McDevitt and end Bucky Pope. Last season McDevitt passed for over 1100 yards to lead the Carolinas Conference. Big 6'4” Pope caught 41 passes for 649 yards last year. The Davidson pass defense faces a strong test. The Wildcats plan to counter with a balanced attack. Fuller, Hindsley, and Fisher are capable runners. Against Furman, end Steve Heckard caught only one pass for nine yards. It is expected he will see more action tonight. He and Cole teamed for two touchdown plays in last year’s 21-0 victory over the Indians.

Visit The New PIZZA - CAVE
1308 E. Independence Blvd.
1318 W. Morehead
In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
The famous OPEN KITCHEN
Charlotte, N. C.

With the running of the freshman cake race last Monday, Davidson disposed of another tradition with all appropriate ceremony. As usual, the participants began arriving about thirty minutes early to discuss the length of the course, rides waiting “over on the road,” or the merits of a few female observers. Finally, the group assembled at the head of the soccer field, instructions were given, and soccer practice was halted. Then, someone realized that starting time was five minutes away and the group broke up again. As somewhat of an anti-climax, the gun sounded and they were off. Those who braved the ninety-degree temperatures found minor difficulties awaiting them, such as obstructions on the wooden bridge and a locked gate. This accounts in part for Bob Dean's rather high winning time of 9:32 over the 1.6-mile course. Pete Ashcraft, holder of the Davidson 880 and mile records, holds the course record of 8:34.55.

Sixty-two cakes were awarded, but charitable upper-classmen were on hand to take over that department for the exhausted freshmen. With a fine nucleus for the coming year, the whole intramural show is Mickey Mouse or that it’s just for has-been jocks and that nobody really gives a damn about the thing; don’t make up your mind without giving this program a chance. Go out yourself, see who plays and play yourself and then decide if intramurals are Mickey Mouse. You may do so and then again you may not. Remember—it is still suave to participate in athletics.

TONIGHT...

Last week I went out on a limb and Danny Donovan cut it off. Picking a football game in the blind is really pretty silly anyhow. I haven’t seen Furman nor Catawba and trying to guess from written reports is ridiculously less or perhaps just guessing. A pole interior line of Dick Fulp, Russell Walls, Britt Smith, Morris Williams, and Bill Dole beat Furman last week. I think the offense should be a powerful rushing game in the charges of Pat Fisher and company. The question arises: can Davidson eliminate the fumbles, supply some spark to their offense, and stop the passes up their ends? Clearly, they meet a team that will be gunning for its first victory over Davidson in many years. Although there is confidence expressed in their camp that this is the year. Returning this year is the leading passer of the Carolinas’ Conference, Catawba will be smaller but will throw the ball all around the park. Davidson must stop this to win.

Coach Fogleman declined to point toward his top prospects, choosing rather to ‘wait and see.” Workouts will continue as long as weather permits. As usual, the captain will be elected this fall, and for the first time doubles combinations will be chosen during fall practice. The season starts next March with a match with Cumberland here at Davidson. Once again the squad will travel to Rollins for a round-robin tournament. Columbia has been secured for this meeting, and negotiations are underway for a fourth entry. On this year’s highly touted team, the coach attracted four members himself (no tennis scholarships are offered) and says he has word that this year’s team is expected to be good to top the group he had last year. While last year’s record left a little to be desired, the quality of tennis that was played on the Davidson courts has seldom been equaled in the past. It promises to be even better this year.

Late announcement: Anyone interested in joining the tennis team should contact Coach Fogleman immediately.

WHY WE CHOSE GANT

There’s more than fabric superiority in Gant. In addition, “needled-into the warp and woof of every Gant shirt” — there's flair-fit-show — three vital inherents that make all the difference when a man wears Gant. We chose Gant because they take shirt making seriously. They're hard to please (like we are) when it comes to the fit of the collar, its roll, its profile—how much it shows above the suit collar. They're fastidious about the way the body of the shirt drapes and folds. All must integrate to achieve that viable ingredient which gives comfort and aplomb. In substance, Gant shirts are keyed to the discerning tastes of well-groomed men who appreciate quality. These men are Rush Wilson, Ltd.

THE SOCK THAT STAYS UP AS LATE AS YOU DO

ADLER introduces the good-tempered cotton sock. Nothing ever gets it down. With stripes at the top and reinforced with nylon, it's a white sock that sticks to you the way your little brother used to. Pictured, the Alpine with the new Shape-Up leg. THE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO

Rush Wilson, Ltd.