Che Dauidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BILL HAGEN Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

EP WILLER Business Manager

FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1963

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Survival And The Fraternities

Reporters can sense good news copy when they see it. This usually leads to a certain amount of bias in interpreting the facts. We strongly suspect that this is partially the case with the recent Look Magazine article on fraternities. It is undoubtedly more a study of the situation in the large university than the small private college.

Yet we should not ignore the fundamental facts and issues which confront every fraternity and non-fraternity man in this article. The very fact that the question of the survival of fraternities has been raised in not one, but several national magazines is important in itself. The influence of the articles, even if the conclusions are false, will be extensive.

“The fraternity system holds a key position in Davidson life.” This is the opening statement in the fraternity section of the Wildcat Handbook. Now one would question it. Aside from the physical fact of a college-built court, this position can be seen every day by the fraternities’ relationship to the college rules. Any rule, such as the drinking rule, which applies to the individual student also applies to the fraternity. There is a closeness here that is unique.

But rules, especially the drinking rule, point up a basic weakness in our “key position.” The system, in its external relations, has tended to change itself only by reaction. Fraternities have let their arteries harden and have been prompted to move only when a potential threat to life or limb presents itself. This was the case with sophomore rush and this is partially the case with the “newly awakened” drinking rule. The weakness of reaction as a dominant mode of behavior is clearly implicit throughout the Look article. We need only look around to see that this weakness might turn into our Achilles heel. Fraternities at Furman and Charlotte College are either dead or dying.

The existential question must be asked repeatedly. “How can I justify my existence?” The Charlotte College furor prompted us to wheel out some of our best public relations fodder. Davidson fraternities were extolled on the grounds that they were active service organizations and were real centers of brotherhood (although not because of the drinking rule). The first “virtue” is relatively a minor one and didn’t deserve the emphasis put on it in letters to The Charlotte Observer. Only sheer imagination could turn a week-and-a-day of service (This is all for most fraternities.) into a year-round virtue. We suggest, however, that if fraternities are really serious about this function, they establish monthly work projects individually or through the IFC. The number of such projects that could be carried out are endless.

Davidson is unique in that most fraternities probably do have that abstract value of brotherhood. This whole concept is being attacked though, on the grounds of discriminatory membership restrictions. These attacks find justification in that it is a national organization restricting membership rather than the local chapter. Thus a national policy works to the detriment of the local chapter. A policy of this kind prevents the local chapter from having real freedom of choice. It is rather ironic that centuries after the early Christian Church decided to accept all gentiles that now the gentiles in supposedly Christian brotherhoods seek to exclude Jews and Negroes.

As a fraternity system that seeks to survive, we cannot ignore these waves of change till they lap at our doorstep. Pressure for more local autonomy must begin now.

“Time has run out for the national fraternity system. It has failed to adapt itself to the demands of the new student and to a changing social pattern.” This is the statement of a college president in an address given to a convention of State University Presidents. We hope this is not the final word.

But the time for simple reaction is gone. A re-evaluation of the foundations of fraternities should begin now. Let’s not wait for these waves of change to assault us. We may discover that our house is built on sand.

Controversy With A Goal

A new awareness is gripping the campus in America. The student, at least the one who cares, is beginning to confront the political and social issues of our times. This is reflected in the South, an area long known for its adept, even if backward, politicians. The sit-in movement, the Republican resurgence, and the corresponding Democratic activity; all have their origins in interested youth.

Colleges are discovering that students will turn out en masse to hear speakers ranging from Gus Hall to Malcolm X. At Davidson too, experience has shown that speakers creating the most interest were those, like Fulton Lewis, Jr. and Leon Uris, who dealt with contemporary social and political problems. And it is in this area where there is a real lacking at Davidson. Students here are exposed to an amazing amount of diverse Christian thought. This should not be changed. But there is an amazing amount of ignorance about some widely debated political and social stances. This was painfully apparent last year when Fulton Lewis, Jr. came and presented his defense of the House on Un-American Activities Committee. The turnout was tremendous but it was clear that few students had prior knowledge of the committee and the controversy surrounding it.

Of course, any of the religious speakers we have can outline a controversial stance, but after a while we get the feeling that we're just being told what our attitude should be toward what others are doing. We want to confront these ideas in their most dramatic form, from their strongest advocates. We should give the intelligent communist spokesman the same hearing as the intelligent spokesman about communism. Both are valuable.

We realize that the Student Council, the Conservative Club, and the International Relations Club, among others, are continually trying to get committed spokesmen of this kind. But this is pretty hard with a shoestring budget. We would propose a Great Issues Committee be formed. It would be composed of both students and faculty members and would have a budget available if necessary. Its purpose would be different from the Reynolds Lecture series in that it would tend to focus the emphasis on one or more related issues. This could be done by getting various speakers throughout the year or concentrating efforts on one weekend symposium such as was recently done at Randolph-Macon Woman's College. The value of such a continuing program would be incalculable. If nothing else it would prepare us for an active political role in the community of tomorrow. We are sure the basic interest already exists.

Associate Editor Knox Abernethy

Editorial Assistant Jim Williams

Assistant Editor Bill Ruth

Managing Editors David Stitt Jeff Wampler

Sports Editor Bill Pridgen

Assignments Editor Charles Ramberg

Feature Editor Tom Loflin

News Editor Charles Dibble

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Staff

Assistant News Editor Jimmy Downey

Photographers Joe McCutchen Buck Lawrimore

Cartoonists Dan Adams Joe Howell Walter MacDonald Rufus Hallmark

Advertising Manager Charlie Smith

Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane

Assistant Bus. Manager Rick Finch

Bridging The River

By Wright MacDonald

Lauds Concept Of Independent Research

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Hallmark Hits Omission Of Vags’ Play Review

Hallmark

Dear Editor:

You slipped when you failed to include a review of the Vagabonds’ last production. Mrs. Louise Hampton's production of Elmer Rice's “The Adding Machine” deserved mention. A short letter to the editor cannot adequately discuss the merits of the production and of the play’s theme, but I, as self-appointed reviewer, submit a bare outline.

The physical aspects of the production—lighting, sets, stylized stage action, and musical score—were superb. The acting was generally good. Mrs. Zero perhaps lacked enough acidity; Mr. Zero could have known his lines better; Miss Devore was convincing; Shrdlu was delightful; Lt. Charles seemed to take himself too seriously.

To analyze the theme of the play is beyond the scope both of this review and of this reviewer, but I want to give my impressions. The most striking aspect of the play was, for me, the type of society presented. Bourgeois is an over-worked adjective; to say that these people lack imagination is more specific. Any imaginative powers they have are crude, molded by poor quality mass media (sentimental movies, sensational newspapers), fenced in by convention, prejudice, respectability, and altered to routine in everything.

These characteristics are illustrated beautifully in the third scene when an after-dinner conversation passes slowly through gossip and dirty jokes, accelerates into racism, and climaxes in a burst of ideal-less pseudo-patriotism, when everyone stands, hand over heart, for a chorus of “America.” The warning strikes home to all of us who ever feel in the least that we betray our individual minds and spirits by thoughtlessly conforming to established attitudes and by living unexamined and undirected lives.

Rufus Hallmark

Shue

Dear Editor:

The selfish motive in freedom of which Dr. Stumpf spoke in last Sunday's vesper service was amply demonstrated by the very persons with whom he was trying to share his ideas. I am referring to the outburst of coughing that occurred when certain people realized that the address would violate the somehow sacred hour of 8:30 p.m. To me, this incident indicates the seriousness of, and points out at least three different aspects of, the whole question of compulsory vespers and chapel.

Let it be understood from the beginning that I consider the practice of coughing, as it were, in a speaker's face, to indicate one's displeasure to be the most childish discourtesy with which any audience could offend its speaker. I hope the parties involved heard enough of Dr. Stumpf's sermon to realize now that their action was both disrespectful of the speaker and that it revealed a selfish, or at least a thoughtless, attitude toward their fellow students.

Two Strawberries

BY TOM WRIGHT

Film Committee Chairman

Four years ago Swedish Director Ingmar Bergman made his 18th and best film, WILD STRAWBERRIES. Concentrating on a single day, he portrays the entire life of an individual. The central figure, an 80-year-old doctor, awakes...On the day he is to receive an important degree from his university—the climax of his life’s work, the token of its significance. Yet this day (and the movie) begins with a fantastic film in which his own corpse tries to drag him into a crypt. This weakens his self-satisfaction and starts a series of events that question the value of his achievements. Partially responsible for the success of this story and its character is Victor Seastrom, who plays the doctor. Seastrom was a great Hollywood director of the ’20s and, as evidenced by his portrait of the physician, remains an excellent actor. Elsewhere Bergman's dominance is evident. The picture is typically painted with symbols. For example, the doctor, visiting a summer house where he picked strawberries with a girl he loved, encounters hitchhikers that represent seven aspects of modern life (shades of LA DOLCE VITA). Certainly, the film is visually beautiful and emotionally sensitive. Yet the strength of WILD STRAWBERRIES lies in Bergman’s avoidance of his weaknesses that have become as typical as his acclaimed strengths. The story is interesting and effectively presented by the director without relying on the theatrical convention of the script to underline and overemphasize what should be visually clear to the audience. Next week: THE VIKINGS with Kirk Douglas, Tony Curtis, and Janet Leigh.

Of my three aspects of the general problem of compulsory vespers and chapel are concerned with this selfish attitude of what I hope is a small minority of the student body. Let us call the discourtesy toward the speaker the first aspect. The reality of this aspect will be obvious to everyone, including the offenders, after a moment or two of personal reflection free of the influence of spontaneous group action. I ask you to imagine yourself addressing a college audience. Suppose you had something to say that you felt very sincerely, and you wanted to share this idea with the possibility of helping someone clarify his own thoughts. You have emphasized the main points of your address and are preparing to polish it off with a meaningful conclusion when suddenly there erupts from the audience a rash of coughing, obviously directed at you, which almost drowns out your voice. How do you think you would feel being repaid in this manner after having set out with the motives mentioned above?

The second aspect concerns the selfish or thoughtless attitude toward fellow students. Have you coughers ever thought that someone might be trying to listen to the speaker? If my hopes are true, most of the students are interested in listening or at least are not interested in keeping others from listening. Think of the other fellow when you are tempted to jeer, whether by coughing or otherwise. However much I feel disinclined at the moment to mention the third aspect, I cannot deny that there is that side to the issue, too. Some of the vespers and chapel speakers do leave something to be desired, and probably the coughers are occasionally justified in their displeasure. But the minimum courteous and unselfish attitude to take in such a situation would be to sit quietly and sleep throughout the ordeal without whispering, joking, coughing, and whatnot, thereby disturbing both the speaker and the other students.

In conclusion, I would like to reemphasize the often neglected second aspect. I feel that the interests of the student who tries to participate in the vespers service are overlooked both by the “coughers” and by the administration. If the purpose of compulsory vespers and chapel is to enrich the students’ religious life, it fails miserably. I have seldom experienced a vespers service in which I have not been disturbed and often offended by the conduct of disinterested students. For this reason alone—that compulsory vespers and chapel destroy the atmosphere necessary for true worship—I am in favor of a substitute system. The system has been suggested of requiring a certain number of attendances at assemblies, chapels, vespers, or musical and dramatic productions, and allowing the student to concentrate in the field of his own interest, perhaps with some minimum requirements in certain fields. I feel that this would be the ideal situation.

Johnnie Shue

BY WALTER MACDONALD

“We aim to develop: the furnished mind, a mind equipped with a broad knowledge of the world we live in, the cultured heritage we possess, and the nature of man in society; the inquiring mind, never satisfied with its own achievements, eager to learn, equipped with tools and methods used in the further search for truth; the free mind, bold, not timid, investigating rather than accepting; the creative mind, always seeking new truth and new commitments to free man for the future as well as from the past; the social mind, thinking in terms of all mankind, using its own powers for the benefit of society as a whole.” (Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, Dean of Faculty, 1960)

Today, the Davidson student is faced with a curriculum that is characterized by too much of too little. Fifty-eight hours are divided between Bible, English, history, mathematics, ROTC, a foreign language, and a natural science. Dramatics, economics, fine arts, music, political science, philosophy, psychology, and sociology remain untouched by the core requirements which seek to produce the “whole” man. A reduction in the number of required Bible courses or a combination of existing ones would allow some of the social sciences to be inserted into the core requirements. If this were done, the student would be exposed to a comprehensive area before delving into the specialized intricacies of any particular subject.

The faculty has shown that it is aware that constant examination of the curriculum is the key to progress. As a result of its recent action, qualified freshmen of the class of ’67 will be given advanced standing and full college credit on certain courses. The problem of hyphenated courses limiting the selection of electives has also been solved. By dropping the hyphen, one-semester courses were created. The integrated courses in the humanities are doing a good job in showing students the interrelationship between economics, fine arts, history, literature, philosophy, politics, and religion from the ancient to the modern world. These innovations are commendable, but more must be made if the curriculum’s goal is to be attained.

Davidson's program of departmental honors allows students of exceptional ability to substitute special work for a part of the normal course requirements. This supervised work on an individual or small group basis enables students to progress toward an understanding of their major field at an accelerated pace. Honors are offered in the English, French, history, and Latin departments. Approximately one percent of the student body is enrolled in this program. Ideally, in every department where it is feasible, departmental honors should be increased. Before this could be done, two problems would have to be solved. Honors are taught by faculty members in addition to their regular work. This puts a strain on them; so if the honors program is expanded, more professors will have to be hired and this would be expensive. The library also poses a problem in that it is inadequate for a large-scale honors program. One possible remedy of this problem could be the introduction of more seminar courses to challenge the gifted student.

To fill in gaps in the curriculum, a reading program should be introduced similar to the one presented in the 1963 Dartmouth College Bulletin: “A program of independent reading, unrelated to particular courses and under the direction of a special faculty committee, will be required of every student in each of the four years. The student will select books from prepared bibliographies and will be held responsible for this reading. He may do the reading during the academic year, but will be encouraged to use vacation periods as well for this purpose. During the first two years, the required reading will consist of books of general interest with which a well-educated man should be familiar. During the last two years, outside reading will be supervised by the faculty of the student’s major department.” The readings, of course, would be geared to the needs of the individual student.

The program which Dartmouth calls the “Senior Fellowship” and Yale “The Scholar of the House” should be introduced into the present curriculum. A faculty committee would select up to five men from the applications of qualified seniors to participate in this program. These students should be given complete academic freedom to spend their entire senior year on their own, excused from all requirements, including chapel and vespers. They should be allowed to discover their intellectual capacity and the real intellectual process in an independent research project with whatever faculty supervision necessary. This program has no middle-of-the-roaders; it is either successful or it fails. But it does produce the whole man.

College Students Get Vanderbilt

Editor's Note: These helpful hints for the weekend come from Vanderbilt columnist March Hanyburger and are enthusiastically (pentt) endorsed by THE DAVIDSONIAN staff.

“The party is over, the room dark. Seated beside you on the couch is that wide-eyed and innocent tough honey whose health germs will cure your ills.

“For goodness sakes, don’t be in a hurry, and above all else, don’t grab. When she is ready she'll find a way to make it convenient. And when the time comes, don't swoop down like a hungry hawk after a young and tender gosling. Incline your head gently to hers and pause. If she is uncooperative, you may take it for granted that her germ crop is not ripe or you are poaching on someone else's preserves.

“You must move slowly, for the essence of enjoyment is in its anticipation. The hasty kisser is like the man who gulps down a glass of fine wine without first inhaling its aroma and admiring its color.

“To have any real value at all, a kiss should last one minute and seven seconds and be repeated seven times, not in swift succession, but with the usual intervals between sips of rare wine. The snatched kiss has no more beneficial effect than a slap in the face with a slab of raw bacon.

“Here’s hoping that this little expose will prove beneficial in your endeavors.”