PAGE FOUR

The College Union's next planned social function is an "open house" dance to be held in the Morrison Room after
the Citadel-Davidson football game here on Sept. 28, according to Union President Staff Warren. The Sept. 21 function at Converse
College that had been planned for Davidson freshmen has been called off. The open house dance is to be the
first of similar dances after other home football and basketball games. Union Director C. Shaw Smith said, “Tentative Friday dances
have been scheduled—perhaps in conjunction with other weekend activities.” The Union is also considering a formal dance to follow the
Homecoming concert. Smith said that plans depend upon the amount of interest shown in such a dance. Concert artist Carlos
Montoya will be invited for the dance if it is held. Entertainment for some of the coming events is expected
to be provided by student musicians. Sid Farrar’s jazz group is planning a special concert and Mike Hunter's combo plans
to play for some freshman get-togethers and possibly in the cafeteria occasionally. Smith said that considerable talent had been discovered
among the freshmen. Ventriloquist David McCorkle plans to perform for a Club International floor show. The Union Social Committee, headed
by Wic Cooney, is planning to work through and with the Freshman Council in scheduling social events. “And there will
be additional freshmen on this year's Union Cafeteria Committee,” promised Director Smith. Bridge tournaments will again be held in the
Union, and master points can be given this year. Other fall activities in the Union include the Roundtable Program, the
fashion show, and the annual Christmas party.

College Union Director C. Shaw Smith announced this week the plans for operation of the Union after the $80,000 enlargement
project is completed. Smith said, “I can make no promises about any kind of opening date for the new building,
but when it opens it will be beautiful, wonderful, and serviceable. The added space will allow us to explore more
of the needs and interests of the students.” The new, air-conditioned building will house the Knovel Knook, the textbook store,
the game room, and the Student Store. There are to be additional billiard and ping pong tables for the game
room, and the new Student Store will be large enough to handle more goods, including sports equipment. In addition, the
new wing will house a vending machine room that will remain open 24 hours a day. The transfer of the
Student Store and game room to the new building will make room for additional tables in the cafeteria and two
more private dining rooms can be added, Smith said. Tentative services in the new Union wing include selling records and
lending prints of famous pictures. Smith said it was his hope that the move to the new building could be
executed during the Thanksgiving holidays.

Civil Rights Leader To Speak At Vespers

A former espionage agent and active civil rights leader, Rev. William Sloane Coffin, Jr., will speak Sunday night at the
initial vesper service of the school year. The Rev. Mr. Coffin has been chaplain at Yale University since July 1958.
In addition to other memberships, he is a member of the boards of the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund,
“Crossroads Africa,” and the Freedom of Residence Fund. Life Magazine selected him in the fall of 1962 as one of
the 100 men in America under 40 years of age outstanding in “the take-over generation.” Known for his provocative sermons,
the Rev. Mr. Coffin is also a prolific writer. Articles by him have appeared in Saturday Review, Parents’ Magazine, and
other national publications. In May 1961, he was one of seven “freedom riders” arrested in Montgomery, Ala. Local courts found
the riders guilty of unlawful assembly and disturbance of the peace after they had violated local laws pertaining to bus
transportation and restaurant seating. In July of this year, he was arrested in Baltimore at a segregated amusement park as
a result of his civil rights activities. He was born June 1, 1924, in New York City and was prepared
for college at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass. The Rev. Mr. Coffin received his AB from Yale in 1949 and
his BD from Yale Divinity School in 1956. During World War II, he served with the U.S. Army in Europe
as an infantry officer and as a liaison officer with the French.

Mrs. John Bailey Dies Unexpectedly

Funeral services for Mrs. Sophie Richards Bailey, who died unexpectedly Thursday in a Charlotte hospital, were held in the Davidson
College Presbyterian Church this afternoon with the Rev. Curtis Harper officiating. Born in Statesville on March 7, 1906, she was
the daughter of the Rev. C. M. Richards and the late Mrs. Richards. Dr. Richards retired as professor of Bible
at Davidson in 1946. Daughter of a professor, Mrs. Bailey was also married to a professor, Dr. John C. Bailey,
Jr., also a member of the Department of Bible and Religion and formerly Dean of Students. Survivors include her husband;
her father; a daughter, Mrs. Watson L. Burts of Raleigh; a son, John C. Bailey III of Guilford College; two
sisters, Miss Mary Richards of Davidson and Mrs. T. R. Liston of Bristol, Tenn.; and a brother, the Rev. James
McDowell Richards of Decatur, Ga., Columbia Theological Seminary.

(Continued From Page One)

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Cotton Alston, Ed Armfield, Bob Cameron, Vince Foster, Louis Hill, Ned Kelly, and Chip Pendleton.

SIGMA CHI
Ken Autrey, Steve Bales, Steve Barden, Mike Booe, Stan Cameron, Greg Haynes, Pope Jordan, Jordie Lang, Andy Moore, Geordie Mueller,
John Sartorius, Jimmy White, and Joel Williamson.

SIGMA NU
John Compton, Bruce Gregory, John Helm, Jerry Kriebel, Ed McFarland, Harvey Newman, Ricky Pfityner, Bill Ramsey, and Jim Rostan.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Rick Altemose, Jack Augustus, Bob Baker, David Bell, Gene Bennett, Ralph Bowlin, Stanley Brown, John Davis, Bill Eaker, Charles Elliott,
Ralph Feil, Scott Gabrielson, Jim Gaul, Dick Helm, Simon Henson, Mike Hunter, Jim Mason, Charles Reed, Jim Shackleford, Barry Sickles,
Bob Sjorgren, Art Staughter, Sam Smith, and Doug.

GOOD CLASSMATES AT EVERY SCHOOL!
Blue Cross And Blue Shield For Students

Immediately available to full-time college and trade school students, the Student Certificate costs only $2 a month, payable quarterly. It
offers year-round coverage both on and off the campus. If you are a college or trade school student between the
ages of 19 and 24—or the parent of a student—write today for a free folder giving full details about this
special Blue Cross and Blue Shield coverage. Now! From Hospital Care a Blue Cross-Blue Shield Student Certificate that provides comprehensive
hospital, surgical, medical, and outpatient care benefits. Not just accidental injury coverage, this is a regular contract developed in response
to many requests from subscribers for a low-cost plan to cover sons and daughters still in school who are past
the 19-year age limit for family certificates.

Fill out and mail coupon to:
Hospital Care Association
1314 East 4th Street
Charlotte, N.C.

Please send me information on the Blue Cross-Blue Shield STUDENT CERTIFICATE
Name: ______________________ Age: ____
City: ________________________ State: ____

Army. For two years after the war, he was assigned as liaison officer with the Russian Army and was released
in 1947 with the rank of captain. He speaks Russian fluently. The Rev. Mr. Coffin is married to the former
Eva Rubinstein, daughter of pianist Arthur Rubinstein. She is a ballet dancer and has appeared on Broadway. They have three
children. He will arrive on campus Sunday afternoon. According to Chaplain Will Terry, an informal discussion will be led by
the Rev. Mr. Coffin immediately following the vespers service in the student lounge of the college church.

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1963

Eighteen new members have been added to Davidson’s faculty beginning with the fall semester. Fifteen of these are regular faculty
members, two are members of the athletic department, and there is one addition to the Military Science department.

CAMPBELL
Capt. Donald M. Campbell, a 1957 graduate of Davidson, is returning to his Alma Mater to become a teacher in
its Military Science Department. While at Davidson, Capt. Campbell was a member of the varsity football team, Sigma Phi Epsilon
social fraternity, and the D Club.

BECK
To aspiring Russian students, Alexander Beck is a new addition to Davidson’s faculty. He received his BS and MLS degrees
from the University of California.

FAGGART
The newest member of Davidson’s Fine Arts Department is Preston Faggart, a 1958 graduate of Davidson. He will assist Professor
Douglas Houchens in his department.

WILSON
A graduate of Davidson with a master’s degree from Harvard, J. Allan Wilson will assist in the Economics and Business
Administration Department on a part-time basis.

COUCH
Two additions to Davidson's coaching staff have been announced. Thomas Couch will serve as head athletic trainer. He is a
graduate of Western Carolina and has earned a master’s degree from Indiana University.

HOLLAND
Perry Holland, who will coach freshman basketball, is a graduate of Campbell College.

JOHNSON
Norman M. Johnson and W. Brown Patterson are new members of the history faculty at Davidson. Johnson, an instructor in
history, received his BS degree from Davidson and is completing work on his PhD degree from the University of North
Carolina.

PATTERSON
Patterson, assistant professor of history, was awarded his BA degree from the University of the South, a BA degree from
Oxford University, an MA from Harvard, an MA from Oxford, and a BD from Episcopal Theological School. He is a
PhD degree candidate.

WELSH
Wilmer H. Welsh comes to Davidson this year as associate professor of music from Winthrop College in South Carolina. He
received a BS degree from Johns Hopkins and the BMus and MM degrees from Peabody Conservatory of Music.

SWICORD
A graduate of King College, with an MA from the University of North Carolina, Mays L. Swicord is Davidson's new
instructor in the physics department.

SECOR
Dr. Philip B. Secor, who received degrees from Drew and Duke universities, comes to Davidson as assistant professor of political
science.

MANSOUR
Scott W. Mansour, an addition to the department of mathematics, received his BS and MA degrees from the University of
Michigan. He will serve as an instructor.

APPLEWHITE
A recent graduate of Amherst, James Applewhite is an instructor in French. He has done graduate work at Tulane University
under a National Defense Education Act Fellowship and is currently working on a PhD degree on a Fulbright Scholarship.

BARBER
New assistant professor of drama, Rupert T. Barber, Jr. received his BS degree from Louisiana State and his master’s degree
from Columbia.

BLISS
An addition to the English department and also a new member of the second-year Humanities team is Dr. Frank W.
Bliss. Dr. Bliss, a graduate of Emory University, also has an MA and a PhD from the University of Michigan.

CUMMING
Davidson's prettiest faculty member is Miss Ann Shannen Cumming, instructor in biology. Miss Cumming was graduated from Agnes Scott College
and has done graduate work at George Washington University.

GIFT
Richard Gift is a new instructor in economics. He has a BA from Vanderbilt, an MA from Emory, and expects
his PhD from Duke in 1964.

HOGAN
Moreland Hogan, instructor in English, is a graduate of Williams Marsh Rice University. He earned his MA degree at Harvard.

Reality Tests Classrooms

Prelude to massacre? No, just 160 ROTC cadets receiving instruction in personal combat. The place was Fort Bragg, N.C., and
the class, “Use of the Bayonet,” was one of many courses taught during the “Six Weeks War.” Most of the
cadets were blissfully ignorant that such ancient, unsophisticated means of killing still found application. Yet after several hours of concentrated
practice, they, too, had qualified as butchers first class. Other programs scheduled during the ROTC Camp period left the potential
officer with hours of “live” range firing to his credit and a working knowledge of infantry weapons from the M-1
to the 81mm mortar. Imparting an understanding of small unit tactics was equally as important to the cadet as the
fundamentals of marksmanship. Thus, tactics instruction included everything from recon patrols to tank-infantry teams in the attack. There was even
a night compass course to separate the men from the boys... which it did.

BY BOB ADAMS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Barracks life gave everyone a sample of the enlisted man’s fare and a bird’s-eye view of the confusion which underlies
the glossy veneer of military precision. “Alpha Company will wear cartridge belts to chow this morning!” call the platoon sergeants.
Five minutes before “fall in” you hear the platoon sergeants directing, “Revision: all cadets will wear cartridge belts, with canteens,
with rolled ponchos to chow.” Just as the command “fall in” echoes through the empty barracks street, the frantic cadet
leaders are shouting, “Cartridge belts only to chow! No canteens, and ponchos folded!” Immediately chaos results as cursing cadets mill
about in the streets, unrolling ponchos and removing canteens. Meanwhile, the cadet company commander has just flushed a few leadership
points.

The Davidson cadet found that barracks life acquainted him with more than mere confusion and the Spartan existence. No one
can soon forget at Fort Bragg Sweatshop “Kill! kill! kill! ...” the scream reverberated through the bleachers that steamy July
afternoon. Sweat streaked the taut muscles of the Airborne Rangers as they jabbed fixed bayonets toward the cadets who cowered
in their seats. The sonorous cadence counted “two, four... two, three, four” by the VMI cadets. Long will he remember
the Hampton Institute command, “Toon leaders, take charge o’ yo’ ‘toons and carry out de prescribed drill fo’ de day.”
No less vivid will be memories of “back sink” and “outside man” duties performed while enduring the KP required of
each cadet. As well as the targets, brass, tactics, drill, sweat, and work of summer camp, most cadets will remember
the 82nd Airborne Club, the escape to Fayetteville’s Holiday Inn on weekends, the Sunday afternoons spent poolside at the Officers
Club, or a weekend trip to the beach. These were some of the amenities that made camp life bearable.

ROTC Camp was a sorry substitute for a vacation one might have enjoyed on the coast or in Europe, and
Army pay did not approach $100 per week. At Fort Bragg, however, the cadet could put his leadership training to
a practical test and realize that it takes more than six weeks to make a good officer.

VISIT THE Tastee Freeze In Cornelius
MILK SHAKES
HAMBURGERS
CHEESEBURGERS
HOT DOGS
CONES
FRENCH FRIES
