SN Be eer BE? se, aw . afl ae _. a ABC... TONIGHT 6:30—Homecoming Queen candidates’ banquet 8:15—Concert, Carlos Montoya 10—Formal dance, Union of ry | VOL. LI A SEPARATE PEACE Knowles’ First Novel To Be Y Book-Of-The-Semester BY HARRY CARR John Knowles’ A Separate Peace is the “Book of the Semester,” the YMCA announced this week. Knowles will appear at Davidson Dec. 3 to lecture at chapel Tuesday morning and at a special assembly that night in Chambers Auditorium. Informal discussions will follow both sessions. His first book, A Separate Peace captured the 1960 Rosenthal Award of the National Institute of Arts and Letters, as well as the first award of the William Faulkner Foundation, also in 1960. In its “Book Review” section, the New York Times compared the novel with J. D. Salinger’s Catcher in the Rye and Lord of the Flies by William Golding. Like Salinger’s novel, A Separate Peace takes place in a prep school with a 16-year-old boy as principal character. According to Chairman Sid Moore, the Books-of-the-Semester Committee selected Knowles’ book because of its timely subject and its popularity with college readers. The Intercollegiate Magazine lists the novel among the top 15 books in popularity throughout U.S. colleges. Having written another novel, Morning in Antibes, Knowles is currently writer-in-residence at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He earned his AB from Yale University after graduating from Phillips Exeter Academy. Both of Knowles’ books are on sale in paperback form in the Knovel Knook at the Student Union.

... L2ZZ ye Hautdsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY. OCTOBER 25, 1963 Football, Concerts Highlight Fortieth Homecoming Day Executive Committee Slips Pacifier —To AP Freshmen BY TOM LOFLIN Freshman football players on academic probation will now be allowed to participate in off-campus games as a result of Executive Committee action yesterday. President D. G. Martin indicated that the committee made even more sweeping and liberal proposals in regard to the academic probation rules. For one thing, specific recommendations were made in regard to probation at mid-semester. “If the Faculty approves our proposals, then the academic probation rule now in effect will be changed and we think for the better,” Martin said. “But we do not wish to say any more about it at this time because we do not want the Faculty to feel that we have committed them publicly to anything.” Martin would say that the committee voted to recommend to the Faculty that the current six-week grade report for freshmen be considered non-official and that the consideration be applied to all six-week grade reports in future years. If this is done, then no freshman would be placed on probation because of his first grade report. Under the current academic probation rule, any freshman who does not have grades that represent 12 hours and 9 quality points when the six-weeks grades are evaluated will be put on academic probation and kept on it until the end of the semester. This means such a student will not be allowed to miss any academic exercises or represent the school in any off-campus activity. The committee, however, has made an exception in the case of the freshman football team and resolved that: “Freshman football players can participate in off-campus football games provided that they do not miss any academic exercises in so doing.” Since the Faculty must approve the recommendation in its next meeting, on Nov. 5, before it can become school policy, the Executive Committee felt that something had to be done at once to relieve the problem of the freshman football team, the only activity currently affected by the six-week grade report.

INTEGRATIONISTS ORGANIZE Group Guns At Core Of Racial Prejudice BY BOB ADAMS Local civil rights advocates organized a racial progress group at St. Alban’s Episcopal Church yesterday. The meeting, attended by 43 students and adults, was a sequel to a preliminary meeting held last Thursday under the guidance of Buddy Triger, a 1963 Duke University graduate employed as a field worker for the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE). Triger, again present yesterday, stated he would like to see the new civil rights group affiliate with CORE, yet he believed the creation of an active local club, regardless of title, would be an important step forward. A de facto nominating committee including Davidson students Calvin Zon, Bill Ferris, Joe Howell, Tom Vinson, and Hank Taylor prepared the club’s slate of officers. The nominees, elected yesterday by acclamation, were Chairman, Mrs. Mary B. Johnson; Vice-chairman, the Rev. William Morris; Second Vice-chairman, Calvin Zon; Secretary-Treasurer, Hank Taylor, and Publicity Chairman, Tom Vinson. The executive committee consists of the officers together with Davidson Professors Sam Maloney, Max Polley, and Ernest F. Patterson, the latter three unanimously added yesterday. Though lacking official title and constitution, the new group readily publicized its basic aims through the titles of its subcommittees. The subcommittees are for: Negro Education and Voter Registration; Enrollment of American Negroes at Davidson College; Investigating Economic Conditions of Davidson Negroes; Spiritual, Cultural, and Social Contact within the Community; and Student Exchange Between Davidson College and Johnson C. Smith University (Charlotte). Possible conflict with a local bi-racial committee, club objectives, and the decision concerning affiliation with CORE were the primary topics moderated by Bill Ferris during the meeting. The new club’s objective as differentiated from that of a recently established community bi-racial committee was the first topic the group attempted to discuss. (Note: F. L. Jackson, mayor of Davidson, recently appointed a committee composed of local white and Negro citizens, including several Davidson faculty members, the purpose of which would be to act as both a “sounding board for discovering racial problems in the community” and as a means of unobtrusively solving local problems considered inimical to the racial harmony of Davidson. No member of the mayor’s committee attended the Thursday afternoon meeting.) Rev. Morris stated, “The mayor’s committee will deal with grievances presented to it; our committee’s aim should be to search out local problems, yet it should not create crises.” Others concurred that the mayor’s committee wouldn't act until trouble developed, whereas the new group would seek to stymie problems before “action” was necessary. Zon emphasized that the new group was in no way a clandestine organization. Zon envisioned the goals of the group as twofold: to improve communications between the white and Negro communities and to improve the economic, social, and political status of the Negro community. The office “Publicity Chairman” is evidence of the group's candor, Zon commented. In a specific proposal of objective, Dr. P. B. Secor, Davidson professor, moved formation of a subcommittee to “expedite integration of Davidson College social fraternities.” His motion was later reworded to place this objective under the auspices of the “Social Contact” committee. At this time it was pointed out that Davidson's two native Congolese students do not eat meals on the fraternity court. Concerning the question of CORE affiliation, field worker Triger restated that he wasn’t present solely to organize a CORE chapter—but added, “CORE affiliation would add strength and prestige ... ”Of freshman six-week grade reports, all freshmen who are to be placed on probation this month will be removed from it. They will no longer be held responsible for meeting probation requirements. Freshmen are the only students who are graded at the end of the first six weeks of school. All students are subject to being placed on probation at the grade report mid-semester. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts pointed out that the committee was not trying to abolish the six-week reports for beginning students. “We will continue to have them for evaluation purposes, and we will continue to send the grades home,” he said. “But the committee is recommending that they not be used in an official capacity; i.e., to place students on probation for failing to meet a set standard.”

Robert Mormon, a local Negro, stressed that CORE uses varied tactics and resorts to demonstrations only as a final effort to dispel problems. Dr. Patterson stated, “It would damage the effect locally if we affiliated with CORE.” Patterson, nevertheless, favors non-violent action. Dr. Secor advised that the group delay affiliation with CORE until Davidson’s racial problems were defined by the committee, at which time the members could decide what, if any, national organization could best aid the solution of local problems. A motion that the club remain autonomous at present was proposed by Davidson Professor Polley. The motion passed. The new civil rights group has scheduled meetings for the first and third Tuesday of each month; however, it will meet again next Tuesday night at St. Alban’s at 8 p.m. Though Davidson students constituted a majority of those attending Thursday's meeting, the club has not sought a charter as a Davidson College-sponsored organization.

CLASH! In an attempt to draw eager crowds away from the first annual Patterson Fraternity Court Alumni Picnic tomorrow, a novel match of the English game of croquet will begin at 12:30 p.m. on the front lawn of Chambers School House. The match will last approximately 15 minutes. Opponents in this battle of brawn will be THE DAVIDSONIAN and the Scripts ‘n Pranks staffs.

Reporter To Discuss Arms Curb
James K. Batten, a governmental affairs reporter for The Charlotte Observer, will speak to the Conservative Club on the problems of disarmament Monday night at 7:15 in the Green Room. The club is also formulating plans for a trip to a seminar on “Freedom and Federalism" at Randolph-Macon Woman's College next weekend. Featured speakers at the two-day gathering in Lynchburg will be James J. Kilpatrick, editor of the Richmond News Leader, and Gottfried Dietze, professor of political science at The Johns Hopkins University. Batten, a 1957 graduate of Davidson, was editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. After a tour of duty in the service, he attended Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School of International Studies. His paper on arms controls and problems, completed while he was at Princeton, has been published. Associated with the Observer for about a year, Batten is currently covering county government.

A veteran journalist and former syndicated columnist, Workman compiled the largest Republican vote in South Carolina since Reconstruction when he made an unsuccessful bid for a seat in the U.S. Senate last year. On Dec. 9, R. S. Hamilton, vice-president of the Southern Railway System, will speak to the club on the issues arising from Southern’s proposed reduction in grain freight rates. Earlier that day Hamilton will speak in assembly.

Davidson’s 40th annual Homecoming Day will be held tomorrow, highlighted by the Davidson-Presbyterian College football game and featuring the revivals of a student-alumni barbecue and the selection of a Homecoming Queen for 1963. The homecoming celebration, which began with the dedication of the Richardson Athletic Field in 1923, will attract to the campus many graduates as well as an estimated 750 or more girls who will be here for the first of three IFC dance weekends. The weekend's events actually began this afternoon. Davidson's once-beaten soccer team took on the visiting Mountaineers from Appalachian State Teachers College at 2 o'clock. Tonight at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium, Carlos Montoya, the Spanish flamenco guitarist, will open this year’s Artist Series with a concert. Montoya was born in Madrid, the son of Spanish gypsies. He began playing the guitar at the age of eight, won early recognition in Europe, and has since played in concerts around the globe. After the concert, the Union Social Committee is sponsoring a formal dance in the Morrison Room of the College Union. The dance is open to the student body at no admission charge. Music will be provided by Sid Farrar’s combo.

Saturday morning will be filled with a round of meetings for alumni in the Union. The annual meeting of the Wildcat Club, the alumni group that assists Davidson’s athletic program, will be held at 11 a.m. The student-alumni barbecue, which has not been held in recent years, will be held in the center of Patterson Fraternity Court (weather permitting). Serving will begin at noon and will continue until the beginning of the football game at 2. With six or eight lines serving at all times, Bill Bondurant, alumni director in charge of the barbecue, promises quick service for everyone. In case of inclement weather on Thursday or Friday, the luncheon will be held in the old quadrangle in front of the Fine Arts Building. If it is raining on Saturday, the barbecue will be served in the old Chambers dining hall. Eight fraternities have voted to eat with the alumni in the center of the court. The board out of the recent IFC decision for their regular Saturday noon meal will help pay for the barbecue. Independents may purchase tickets for the luncheon at the Union desk. Bill DeVaughn, president of Lingle Manor, indicated considerable interest from his group in the meal. “It’s actually cheaper for fraternity men as well as Independents,” pointed out Bondurant. The charge is 75 cents for single or couple. Bondurant said that chairs, stands, and tables will be set up and promised a “gay, festive atmosphere.” Members of the Class of 1928, who will be celebrating their 35th reunion, will be honored guests at the barbecue. Other special guests will include the candidates for Homecoming Queen.

Kickoff for the homecoming game will be at 2. Neither Davidson nor Presbyterian has anything to boast about this season. The Wildcats will be looking for their first win since they trounced this same PC team on Oct. 6 last year. Halftime activities will include the crowning of the Homecoming Queen and the introduction of the new Alumni Association officers. The Interfraternity Council has planned to give the queen an engraved trophy along with a dozen red roses. The IFC concert at 8 p.m. tomorrow will feature the Chad Mitchell Trio in Chambers Auditorium. After the concert, the various fraternity after-parties will be held off campus and, as on Friday night, will last into the wee hours of the following morning. All dormitory space for the weekend has been taken, according to Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories. On Wednesday afternoon, Mrs. Moore had a long list of alumni and guests waiting for rooms; however, she anticipated no trouble in placing those for the weekend since there are usually enough cancellations at the last minute to accommodate them. Homecoming is one of three weekends during the year in which nearly half the boys vacate their dormitory rooms to provide rooms for their dates. “Homecoming is naturally bigger than Midwinters or Spring Frolics,” explained Mrs. Moore, “so that’s why we have this waiting list.” IFC President Haynes Kelly is expecting a typical Davidson dance weekend. “Everything’s set and we're looking forward to a really good weekend,” said Kelly in the middle of the week.