FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1963

Side Lights BY RICK LOWERY

A FAST START... In three short days about eleven thousand people saw this year’s basketball team open up with two wins. In the first game, Davidson rolled over an obviously outclassed Hampden-Sydney. In a game marked by a 5’6” guard jumping center, Fred Hetzel scored 21 points in the first half and a liberal use was made of all 11 ball players. There wasn't much doubt as to the outcome from start to finish. Monday night, however, it was a different story. Wake Forest, a team forgotten by the reporters, took the floor before over 7500 people with the firm belief that they were the best team. Employing a scrambling 1-3-1 zone defense, the Deacons managed to keep within reach of the ’Cats until the last few minutes. Leading scorer was again Hetzel with 24 points, but I think it’s safe to say that he didn’t win the game alone. Perhaps the performance that went most unnoticed was that of Don Davidson. He scored 12 points, made several assists and stood out all night long grabbing rebounds and loose basketballs. His outstanding job, however, came on defense. Bob Leonard, sophomore guard, has been touted by Coach Bones McKinney as the best back-court man he has ever coached. The morning papers were high in their acclaim for Leonard but noted that he could only manage to score 13 points. Perhaps the reason he could only manage 13 points was that Davidson played him almost all night. Leonard is good and will be a top scorer. He shoots well and drives and jumps exceptionally. Monday night, he scored 13 points. All in all it was a good start.

HARROWING HOLIDAYS... Lest the flags fly too high and since this is the last paper before Christmas, perhaps a word is in order about the upcoming holiday schedule. On December 30 and 31, Davidson is host for the Charlotte Invitational. Our first round opponent will be Pennsylvania, a team that is rebuilding after a fine 19-6 record last year. The second round opponent will be either Princeton or Texas. Princeton features Bill Bradley, first team All American, and was last year’s Ivy League Champion. Texas could be one of the best teams in the country. Last year they won the Southwest Conference and gave Cincinnati a close game in NCAA regionals. Texas will return four of the top five men, including 6’8” Mike Humphrey, an all-conference choice, 6’8” John Frye, and 6’7” Joe Fisher. Texas has already been ranked among the nation's top teams and figures to be a conference contender after their narrow two-point loss to West Virginia in Morgantown. On December 21, the ’Cats will tackle East Carolina in Norfolk, Va., and on December 18, Furman University. On December 14, Jacksonville University will visit Johnston Gymnasium only three days after the Wildcats travel to Columbus, Ohio, to meet Ohio State. Ohio State returns Gary Bradds, a 6’8” All-American, and the Big Ten co-championship team. Ohio State won almost 50 straight games on their home court. They overcame Butler several nights ago, but the best indication of their strength should come tonight against Duke. Win or lose, they’ll be rough to handle.

But the most immediate threat of the young season comes tomorrow night in Charlotte when St. Joseph’s College of Philadelphia comes to town. A few years ago St. Joseph’s had one of the best teams in America. This same year a few of their players were implicated in the nationally publicized basketball scandals. Most people kissed the game of basketball goodbye and buried St. Joe’s for dead. Last year this team was far from dead. Possibly the main reason for this remarkable comeback was head coach Jack Ramsey. Mr. Ramsey, acknowledged as one of the top basketball coaches in the nation, has always produced teams noted for their discipline and efficiency. There is no indication that this year will be different. Gone from last year’s television squad will be guards Billy Hoy and Jim Lyman. Also no longer there is center and all-time St. Joe scoring leader Tom Wynne. But St. Joseph’s returns two tested ballplayers. One is guard Steve Courtin, a steady offensive player who last year totaled 75 steals. The second is Jim Boyle, who last year was an outstanding forward and this year is picked to be the top rebounder and scorer. These two veterans, along with 6’8” John Teller and several promising sophomores, should make a strong team. Saturday night, twelve thousand people can expect to see a well-disciplined team make few mistakes, play good defense and possibly press. Anyone who saw St. Joe against West Virginia last year in the regionals will have no trouble seeing that Davidson will have to go some to win number three.

SHORTS... The tall red-headed referee who drew so much attention Monday night was “Red” Mihalik. Mr. Mihalik has recently been voted the outstanding basketball official in America by a leading magazine. If Davidson used to be an unexciting team to watch, ‘tis true no more. When the lights dim and the cigarette smoke seems to disappear and a figure comes from the darkness of the Coliseum to be met with a thunderous (really) applause, it’s not unexciting any longer. It occurs to me that the process of selecting All-Americans may be hurting. In pre-season selections, most have given Fred Hetzel a wide berth. They have seemingly chosen to play safe and put him on the third team or honorable mention. As the season goes on, it will be interesting to note how many ball players you would rather have on your team than Hetzel.

WRESTLING CAPTAIN BILL PRIDGEN wheels to escape the embrace of Russell Walls in Davidson’s stadium. (Staff Photo by Smith)

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hetzel Scores 31 And 24 Points As ‘Cats Sweep Opening Two BY BOB STRAUSER Coach “Lefty” Driesell introduced his fourthDavidson basketball squad to Johnston Gym this week; the debut did not go unnoticed (after two games Sports Illustrated ranks Davidson 16th in the nation). The opener on Saturday night was a 98-52 rout of under-sized Hampden-Sydney. The hapless starting five for the Tigers averaged only 6'1" and a 5'6" guard jumped against Fred Hetzel at the tip-off. The basketball game lasted approximately 5:44, at which time Davidson led 7-6. From that point, the 'Cats pulled away to a comfortable rout. About ten minutes later, the score was 23-6 and Hampden-Sydney pumped in their next field goal. By halftime Hetzel had 21 points and nine rebounds and the score was not worth mentioning. In the second half, Driesell pulled his starters with some 10 minutes left; the 'Cats were on top 73-37. Hetzel had 31 points and 12 rebounds. Dick Snyder followed with 15 points and seven rebounds. Terry Holland, Don Davidson, and Ronnie Stone also ended up in double figures. The final statistics show the 'Cats hitting 41 of 85 from the field for 46.2 per cent. They out-rebounded their opponents 45-25. 

Earlier Saturday night the freshman team had put on an equally impressive show in defeating Kings College 121-61. The ‘Kittens, led by Denny Knight with 23 points, had six men in double figures. Then, Monday night in the Coliseum the ‘Cats toppled Wake Forest, much to the vocal chagrin of Bones McKinney, for their third win over the Demon Deacs in Driesell’s four-year tenure; the final score was 66-53. If Davidson was not cold in the first half, they had at least cooled down from their earlier performance. The ‘Cats led early 6-1 and 8-4 with Hetzel scoring the first eight points. Big Fred drew three fouls in the opening 15 minutes, however, and Coach Driesell benched him for the final five and a half minutes of the half. Wake made it hot for the 'Cats during Hetzel’s absence and trailed by only two points at the half, 29-27. In the second half, with the starting five back in, Davidson began pulling away. Coach Driesell attributed the second half success to defensive play and the fact that they were “getting our shots.” Don Davidson knotted the score at 41 with 12 minutes left and the ‘Cats never trailed after that. Playing a big role in the second half surge, Hetzel finished the night with 24 points and 14 rebounds. The ‘Cats again finished with a rebound edge, 38-27 and again hit better than half their shots from the floor. Of his team's performance Driesell said, “We were picked to win by six or seven and we won by 13; I don’t see how anyone can be unhappy with that.” He went on to say that he would probably start his same five against St. Joseph’s. In looking to the Southern Conference race this year, the comment of a Carolina sports writer—“Without Hetzel Davidson looks like a contender for last place in the Southern Conference”—was mentioned. “Fred is a tremendous athlete," said Driesell, “But this is hardly a one-man team.”

Wrestlers Face VMI Tomorrow
BY DAVID POWELL

“If seniority means anything,” quipped Coach Charlie Parker when asked about the outlook for this year's wrestling team, “we ought to be real tough.” Of the eight weight classes on the team, six are filled by seniors, with a sophomore and a junior holding down the other two positions. Turning serious, Coach Parker explained that he was counting heavily on the experience of the team. With a commendable 6-2-1 season last year, Parker hopes to “beat that—or at least match it.” The team opens its season here tonight at 7:30 against a traditionally tough foe, VMI. “We have the best chance of beating them in a long time,” explained Parker, “and that's something we haven't done since I’ve been here, which goes back over twenty-six years.” Johnny Webb will start in the 123 lb. class, though only a sophomore. In the 130 class Mike Bisard, a close Conference runner-up last year, will represent Davidson. Along with Billy Mills in the 167 class, Russ Walls in heavyweight, and Dick Wray in the 137 class, Bisard is expected to lead the team in its matches. Other starters include Sam Glasgow, who returns to the 147 lb. class after a year's sabbatical, and Bill Pridgen, wrestling at 177, who lettered last year and is much improved, according to Parker. Eric Nichols, who showed great promise, was recently hurt in practice and his services will be lost until after Christmas. He is expected to bolster the team in either the 167 or 177 class. In discussing the Freshman team, Parker could hardly restrain himself, his eyes glinting when he thought of the prospects for years to come. But at one point he declared simply, “This is the best freshman team we've ever had.” He ran down a list of names: Joe Buffington, Martin Miller, Ben King, Bill Kendrick, Jesse Sims, Bob Duggar—all winners in the recent IMAC matches. The promising freshmen open the season next Thursday, when both they and the Varsity meet Carolina here. And in closing, Coach Parker pointed out a significant change from the past—the new one-second fall rule for colleges, established by the NCAA. “This ought to be an interesting change,” concluded Parker, “and it’s certainly a big one.”

Rifle Team Drops Meet To Furman And Clemson
On Nov. 22, the Friday before Thanksgiving, the Davidson rifle team journeyed to Spartanburg, S. C., to meet Clemson and Furman. Although losing both ends of the meet, the Cats turned in their best performance so far this year. Dick Forrester was again high man with 279 and was followed closely by Ronnie Rudolph and Jim Kopp. Coach Don Campbell noted that “Rudolph was improving and should be shooting in the 280’s before too long.” For the meet, everyone shot in the 270's for a 1373 team effort, the highest total so far this year. A disputed challenge on an illegal position cost the ‘Cats 12 points but Campbell would offer no excuses for the defeat. “Clemson just had a good day and Furman is just plain good.” This Saturday the ‘Cats meet Richmond and VPI here at 9:00 o'clock. Campbell hopefully prophesied that “we might hit 1380 this week. That kind of score should be good enough to win the Western Carolinas Conference Meet.”

(Basketball Photos by McCutchen)

The Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.
Hub

Tastee Freez
Just down the road Cornelius
PIZZA SANDWICHES ICE CREAM
HOURS: Tues. - Thurs. 10:30-8:00 Fri. - Sat. 10:30-10:00 Sun. 2-9 Closed Monday