PAGE FOUR

A SOLICITATION IN DOWNTOWN DAVIDSON occurred last Saturday as the Queens College chapter of ADPi sorority and the Davidson Phi
Delts combined forces to collect $560 for the Easter Seal Fund for Crippled Children. Shown above are Mike Thurman and
Dan Guyton receiving a generous donation from a Salem College sophomore. (Staff Photo)

Fine Arts Festival Follows Spring Break

The 16th annual Fine Arts Festival will begin on Monday, April 8, at 12 noon and will feature intermittent programs
through April 26. The theme of this year’s festival is the interrelation of the arts. There will be representatives of
both studio art and music. Since the YMCA is presenting the Book-of-the-Year program the same week, no author was invited
to the festival.

Frank Engle, professor of fine arts at the University of Alabama, will open the festival with a lecture to the
fourth period art classes. His topic will be “The Dichotomy of Creative Man.” Anyone interested is invited to hear the
lecture which will be in the chorus room. Monday night at 8, Engle will give an informal talk on “Artists’
Opinions and Convictions about Art,” which will be followed by a discussion period and a studio party. Tuesday at 2:45
p.m. he will judge an exhibit of student art. Some of Engle’s own paintings, sculpture, drawings, and ceramics will also
be shown.

Charles Delaney, a flutist from the University of Illinois, will present a program on Thursday, April 11, in Hodson Hall.
Delaney is a Davidson graduate. Together with David Richey at the piano, and Mrs. Elaine Richey at the violin, he
will play C. P. E. Bach's Concerto for Flute, Violin, and Piano. Following the concerto, he will show a film
taken in the marshes near Brunswick, Ga. The accompaniment to this film was written by Delaney and recorded by the
University of Illinois symphony orchestra and chorus. Delaney will also play one of Sidney Lanier’s compositions for the flute.

On Friday, April 26, Dr. Grier Williams, trumpet, and the woodwind choir of the Wind Ensemble will present a recital
at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall. One of the pieces to be played will be Richey’s Suite of Dances for
Woodwind Choir, written especially for this group. Other numbers on the program are these: Torelli, Concerto for Trumpet; Gedalge, Piece
in C; Porrino, Concertino; Strauss, Serenade for Thirteen Wind Instruments; and Haydn, Concerto for Trumpet. There will be a reception
after the recital.

Dr. J. S. Purcell made the following comment on the festival: “We would like to see the students cooperate by
seeing how much interrelation they find themselves. In the past, students have gone only to the parts of the festival
which were in their particular fields.”

Kimrey And Ackerman Tell Plans For Handbook, Scripts 'n Pranks

BY BILL LOGAN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Editors Doug Ackerman and Tim Kimrey released news this week on the upcoming issues of Scripts 'n Pranks and The
Wildcat Handbook. Ackerman said, “The Scripts 'n Pranks is pleased to announce that the winner of the 1962-63 freshman writing
contest is Bob Holladay. His winning short story, ‘Dark Lazarus,’ will appear in the spring issue coming out April 16.”
Ackerman added that April 21 has been named the deadline for manuscript submission for the last 1962-63 issue of Scripts
'n Pranks.

Kimrey said that The Wildcat Handbook is still in formative stages. Much of his staff has been formed, and Kimrey
has many changes in mind for the Handbook. Roger David will be the assistant editor and Dave Pusey will be
business manager. The art editors will be Dan Adams and Algie Guess. Kimrey was able to give a partial list
of his writers: Al Carson, Walt MacDonald, Joel Morrisette, Ed Stopher, and Jim Stringfield.

“Next year’s Handbook,” said Kimrey, “will be strictly for and addressed to freshmen. In the front of the book there
will be an italicized letter of several pages from the editor, and there will be editorial comment throughout. It will
be an objective general information book as in the past, but we're adding subjective comment.”

The 1963-64 edition will also include freshmen’s room numbers under their pictures, a dating guide, a section on what to
do and where to go in Charlotte, a map of Charlotte, and articles of advice by several professors. The majority
of pictures will be changed, and there will be additional pictures. Controversial issues (fraternity party drinking, faculty oath, and others)
will be presented in full.

Kimrey said, “In the past, freshmen have come to Davidson and found it different from the college presented in the
college catalog and in the Wildcat Handbook. They have had to talk to upperclassmen to find out what it's really
like. We shall try to give this student-to-student clear picture in the Handbook. This is the purpose of the editorial
comment.”

Phi Betes Feature Talk On Chaucer

The Phi Beta Kappa initiation on April 12 is the occasion for Dr. Norman E. Eliason's lecture on “Chaucer Today”
at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall. The public is invited to attend the lecture which will follow the initiation of
new Phi Beta members and a banquet honoring the five seniors and one junior.

Eliason is professor of English at the University of North Carolina and a specialist in Old and Middle English. He
has just returned from England where he held a guest professorship in English at the University of Reading.

Vereen Bell Contest Has April 16th Deadline

All students interested in entering competition for the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for creative writing must submit entries to some
member of the English Department on or before April 16. The award this year carries a cash prize of $75.
The winner will be announced in the student assembly by Reynolds Price on April 23, and honorary recognition will be
given to other ranking contestants.

All entries must be the original work of their respective entrants and may come from any recognized category of creative
writing, such as essay, short story, drama, poetry, etc. Any regularly enrolled student at Davidson College is eligible to compete
and may submit entries in as many different categories as he wishes. However, only one entry may be submitted in
each category with the exception of poetry, in which one poem or a sequence of poems designated as one unit
may be entered. The name of the entrant must be enclosed in an envelope bearing the title of the entry
and attached to the manuscript. No name should appear on the manuscript itself.

Entries will be judged by a faculty committee composed of members of the English Department. They will select papers to
be entered for final judging. Final judging will be done by Dr. Reynolds Price, professor at Duke University and author
of A Long and Happy Life. Price is a former Rhodes Scholar and has recently been awarded the William Faulkner
Award for the most notable first novel written by an American. He will be on campus April 22-23 and will
present the award in assembly.

APO Names New Pledges, Announces Project Plans

Alpha Phi Omega, honorary service fraternity, has recently announced plans for future projects and the names of new pledges. With
the addition of 19 new pledges, APO actives have increased their plans for projects and included new activities especially for
the pledges.

Before becoming active members of APO, these 19 pledges must render at least 10 hours of service on work projects
for the fraternity. In these activities, all pledges must also demonstrate a spirit of willingness and cooperation. With the final
approval of the chapter, a pledge will be eligible for initiation in May.

The Davidson chapter of APO was founded on April 26, 1962. In its first year on campus, the chapter grew
to a size of 22 active members. The activities of the organization last year included infirmary service, tour guide service,
printing of a student directory, ushering at Artist Series programs, and serving as Scout leaders.

The Hub Now Bus Station and Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...
PIZZA
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

DANIA RESTAURANT
CONCORD, N. C.
HIGHWAY 29
Foods Open 6 A.M. - 1 A.M.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ACADEMIC CALENDAR FOR 1963-64

First Semester
Sept. 5-10 Thursday through Tuesday. Orientation Period
Sept. 9 Monday. First Faculty Meeting. Registration of Sophomores, 2 p.m.
Sept. 10 Tuesday. Registration of Juniors, a.m. Seniors, 2 p.m.
Sept. 9-10 Monday and Tuesday. Re-examinations.
Sept. 11 Wednesday. Classes Begin.
Oct. 19 Saturday. Freshman Grade Report.
Oct. 19 Saturday. Freshman Parents Day.
Nov. 16 Saturday. Grade Report All Students.
Nov. 27 Wednesday. 4:30 p.m. Thanksgiving Recess Begins.
Dec. 2 Monday. 8:20 a.m. Thanksgiving Recess Ends.
Dec. 14 Saturday. 12:10 p.m. Christmas Recess Begins.
Jan. 3 Friday. 8:20 a.m. Christmas Recess Ends.
Jan. 17 Friday. Mid-Year Examinations Begin.
Jan. 25 Saturday. Mid-Year Examinations End.
Jan. 26, 27, 28 Sunday, Monday, Tuesday. Mid-term Recess.

Second Semester
Jan. 29 Wednesday. 8:20 a.m. Second Semester Begins.
Feb. 19 Wednesday. Meeting of the Board of Trustees.
Feb. 29 Saturday. Freshman Grade Report.
March 21 Saturday. Grade Report All Students.
March 28 Saturday. 12:10 p.m. Spring Recess Begins.
March 28 Saturday. 2 p.m. Re-examinations.
April 6 Monday. 8:20 a.m. Spring Recess Ends.
May 14 Thursday. Meeting of the Board of Trustees.
May 20 Wednesday. Second Semester Examinations Begin.
May 28 Thursday. Second Semester Examinations End.
May 30-31 Saturday, Sunday. Commencement.
June 5-6 Friday, Saturday. Re-examinations.Circus coordinators. This year APO has, under its president, Staff Warren, continued its former projects and
included new ones in its plans. The Student Body Directory was distributed earlier in the year, and escort and guide
services are still being offered. Projects at Lake Norman and the Teen Canteen are planned for the future. Last week
APO pledges accomplished their first project by scraping, marking off, and repainting the lines on the tennis courts at Mooresville’s
City Recreation Center. Pledges have also taken over infirmary service altogether and have increased their visits to two each day.
New pledges are: Bill Alexander, Wade Barber, John Barrow, Steve Bunch, Bill Cantey, Billy Clark, Woody Coleman, Bill Council, Robert
Hayes, Neill McBryde, Charles Marshall, Ben Moore, Wirt Neale, Eric Nichols, Jim Pepper, Hoyle Setzer, Jim Terry, Lee Thompson, and
Robin Wright. Among these 19 pledges are Independents and members of seven social fraternities.

FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 1963

New Fallout Committee In Charge Of Shelters

Davidsonian Assistant News Editor

Where should the students in Richardson dorm go in case of radioactive fallout? Or the students in East? Or Cannon?
Or any dorm? What plans do we need for emergencies of this kind? Answering these questions is one of the
purposes for the establishment this week of a new faculty Fallout Preparedness Committee, under the leadership of Dr. S. D.
Maloney. The committee's purpose, according to Maloney, is to “have the responsibility of supervising the preparation for the program of
civil defense for our students, faculty, and administrative staff.”

We've all seen the civil defense signs around campus. What more is being done? Until now only preliminary work has
been done informally by President D. Grier Martin, Business Manager Robert Currie, Physical Plant Director Grover C. Meetze, and Dr.
John I. Hopkins, professor of physics. Last year an informal survey was made as the first step in initiating a
civil defense program at Davidson. The results showed that there is sufficient fallout protection for the college, but only with
an expenditure of $1000-$15,000 to stock and complete these areas. Step two was a federal fallout shelter survey. In their
report last January, Civil Defense said there is good fallout protection on our campus for almost 3000 people. It would
agree to stock buildings with the necessary supplies at federal expense if the college designated its shelters for public use.
Since the town of Davidson and the college’s combined population is approximately 2700, the college, in order to avoid the
extra cost of “private” shelters, will provide protection for both the townspeople and students, a College-Community Plan for Civil Defense.

Kenneth D. Williams, civil defense director of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg area, said that supplies of food, water, sanitation, medical supplies, and
radiation equipment would be furnished to the college by the federal government under these conditions. On campus, there are several
buildings, marked by the familiar yellow and black signs, that are designated fallout shelters. Belk Dorm has the largest capacity,
809 persons, and Johnston Gym will hold 790. Chambers Building can adequately hold 627 shelter-seekers. Even the library is adequate
to serve as a shelter for at least 197 persons. Dana Science and Martin Science Buildings have a capacity of
161 and 134 persons respectively; and the Davidson Presbyterian Church can hold 127 if the need ever arises.

Shelter Capacity
Belk 809
Gym 790
Chambers 627
Library 197
Dana Science 161
Martin Science 134
Church 127
Total 2,945

What about the effects of a blast? Maloney, also the deputy director of civil defense for the town of Davidson,
said that as far as he knows there is no place in North Carolina that is a “number one target
area.” He feels there is little local danger of a blast. “Our purpose here,” said Maloney, “is primarily, then, for
a fallout shelter.” Since this college is a “public shelter area,” what happens if more than the total capacity, coming
from the surrounding areas, try to enter our shelters? Director Williams made it clear that our fallout facilities would be
for the use of the town and college only and that other Mecklenburg County population would “not be directed this
way.”

According to Maloney, the preparation and publication of plans for evacuation to assigned areas during a fallout period will be
the responsibility of an Education, Training and Personnel Assignment sub-committee which will work jointly with students. The president of the
Student Council will probably become a standing member of this sub-committee. Other sub-committees set up by Maloney to handle problems
of specific questions are Fallout Plan, Medical Care and Mental Health, Radiation and Communication, Engineering and Construction, and Food and
Supply sub-committees. At the head of each of these groups will be a faculty member willing to undertake such a
task.

Red Cross Greets Pupils After Break

The American Red Cross Bloodmobile will be at Johnston Gymnasium April 8-9 from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. each day.
This is the second blood drive of the year and is sponsored by the ROTC Department and the Interfraternity Council.
Mrs. Mildred Alexander is the coordinator of the Davidson women who will assist the Red Cross in this project. As
in the last drive, donors will be given a free cut from ROTC drill and gym classes. Those under 21
who wish to donate blood must have a consent form signed by their parents. These forms are available in the
ROTC Department.

Wanted: Camp counselors skilled in arts and crafts to work at a North Carolina coastal camp. Write Don Cheek, 1601
Hillsboro Street, Raleigh, North Carolina or call TE 2-0949 in Raleigh.

WEDNESDAY NIGHTS: Golden Fried Chicken (1/2) $1.50
FRIDAY NIGHTS: “All the Fish You Can Eat” $1.50
SAT. NIGHTS: Buffet Supper American-Continental 6:00 - 9:00 P.M. $2.50
Closed Mondays

On Campus Max Shulman (Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf,” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

DEAD RAGS

The hounds of spring are on winter's traces. Soon buds the crocus, soon trills the condor, soon come the new
spring fashions to adorn our lissome limbs. And what will the American college student wear this spring? Gather round, you
rascals, and enjoy that fine mellow light of a Marlboro Cigarette and that pure white filter, and let us see
what’s happening.

College fashions have always been bold and imaginative. This spring, however, they have gone beyond being mere objects of delight
to look madly sensual. For example, why don’t you try wearing a matador jacket with a dinner veil? Or Bermuda
shorts with bronze breastplates? Be impromptu, gaily spur-of-the-moment! Be rakish! Be impromptu! Be devil-take-the-hindmost! And, men, you be the same.
Try wearing a letter-sweater with a kilt. Or a minstrel jacket with boots. Be bold! Be daring! Be a tourist
attraction!

But all is not innovation in college fashions this spring. In fact, one of the highlights of the season turns
time backward in its flight. I refer, of course, to the comeback of the powdered wig. This charming accoutrement, too
long neglected, has already caught on with undergrads everywhere. On hundreds of campuses the bossa nova is giving way to
the minuet, and graduates are dumping British tea into the nearest harbor. King George III, according to reliable reports, has
been uttering curses not fit to reproduce in a family newspaper. For that matter, a lot of our own people
are steamed up too, and there has even been some talk about the American colonies declaring their independence of England.
But I hardly think it will come to that. I mean, how can we break with the mother country when
we are dependent on her for linsey-woolsey, Minie balls, taper snuffers, and like that? She, on the other hand, relies
on us for turkeys, Marlboro Cigarettes, and Route 66. So I say, if Molly Pitcher and those other Radcliffe hotheads
will calm down, and if gentlemen will cry “Peace! Peace!” we may yet find an amicable solution to our differences.
But let not our British cousins mistake our willingness to negotiate for weakness. If they want to fight, then fight
we will! Paul Revere is saddled up.

We were smoking Marlboro Cigarettes, O splendid cigarette! O golden tobaccos! O pure white filter! O fresh! O tasty! O
soft pack! O flip-top box! O get some!—we were, I say, smoking Marlboro and talking about spring fashions. Let us
turn now to the season’s most striking new feature—pneumatic underdrawers. These inflatable pants make every chair an easy chair. Think
how welcome they will be when you sit through a long lecture! They are not, however, without certain dangers. Last
week, for example, Rimbaud Sigafous, a sophomore at the University of Pittsburgh, fell out of a ten-story window in the
Tower of Learning. Thanks to his pneumatic underdrawers, he suffered no injury when he struck the ground but the poor
fellow is still bouncing—his seventh consecutive day—and it is feared that he will starve to death.

© 1963 Max Shulman

Fashions come, fashions go, but year after year Marlboro Cigarettes, sponsors of this column, bring the tastiest blend of fine
tobaccos and a pure white filter too. Try Marlboro today!
