Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1963

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A Statement Of Purpose

This issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN is the first put out by the new staff for 1963-64. Therefore it seems important that a statement of purpose be recorded here, not only to give students and subscribers some idea of what we intend to accomplish, but to establish some guidelines for ourselves. Conversations with adult subscribers and students recently have made one thing clearer than ever: THE DAVIDSONIAN, in order to even partially appeal to its entire circulation, is going to have to find some middle road through schizophrenia. Most of the large number of subscribing alumni and parents expect an objective look at Davidson, with emphasis on the positive aspects of college life. Students here, however, apparently expect a harder and more cynical tone, emphasizing the exposal of flaws in the Davidson College system. Unfortunately, that middle road is painfully hard to determine. Granted that an important function of any newspaper is recognizing problems and attempting to have them corrected. But an equally important responsibility involves looking for, encouraging, and praising improvement. The latter function is neglected all too often as problems are emphasized and improvements are ignored, so the editorial below is a first step in the opposite direction.

The main thing this newspaper needs right now is a change of attitude, as simple as that may sound, and the reason is as follows. When THE DAVIDSONIAN serves merely to reflect a complaining, cynical attitude by ceaselessly attacking different aspects of college life, students become accustomed to the idea that “everything is all messed-up around here,” and their already unhealthy attitude is only reinforced and complicated. Therefore, it seems that if this new staff were to make a conscious effort to focus student attention at least partly on something outside the perennial drinking and vespers problems, student interest could be raised in other areas, whereas it is mostly nil now on the traditional issues. One such attempt to reorient student attention will come out next week in the form of a two-page Spring Frolics insert. If the insert proves successful, we hope to continue it next year. Bill Hagen has been working for some time on the idea of a semi-monthly or monthly six-page newspaper, and the Publications Board has now submitted the request to the faculty and trustees for their approval. If allowed, a six-page paper would permit not only fuller news coverage and more pictures and picture features, but an expansion of the sports page to give better coverage to areas such as IMAC competition. An insert page would also allow for a student and local classified ad column, features from creative writing classes, short summaries of important events on other campuses, more student columns, book and movie reviews, and student opinion polls, which would permit us to speak if not for, then at least accurately about, a consensus of student opinion. The extra space could also be used for better coverage of area cultural events, faculty members, fraternities, honors and deans lists, and community features. Despite the fact that Davidson has a strong pre-medical program, very little is ever written by the science professors, and even less is written about the science program here. Also, every year several polls are made by psychology majors on all manner of subjects, but the final results are never printed. Features written from the conclusions of these polls could reveal much about the attitude of Davidson students. Another possibility provided by a six-page newspaper would be a calendar of events at the numerous colleges in this area, as Davidson College is virtually a “suitcase campus” anyway. THE DAVIDSONIAN gets a pile of announcements from various schools every day besides exchange copies of their newspapers, but has no way of passing on such information.

Bitter and destructive criticism has no place in any kind of publication. Useless criticism also could be done without. For instance, take the drinking rule as it now stands. Several pages could be written attacking the rule for its ambiguity, and, freely granted, much of the criticism would be accurate and factually justifiable. But such efforts would be about as constructive as Sisyphus’ rock-pushing experiences. The college is simply caught between that same rock and the proverbial hard place: move one way and be confronted with solid opposition from trustees and alumni, or move the other way and face open student rebellion. What do you do? Exactly what they’ve done, which would indicate that it is high time outspoken groups of both alumni and students realized that this college has problems of its own.

Finally, this newspaper has complete editorial freedom, and serves as the only printed outlet of student opinion at Davidson. That adds up to make responsible journalism a must, and responsible journalism is exactly what we intend to attain. It won't come overnight, mainly because we are what we are—college students with several more problems than solutions. But given time it will come, and in the meantime, any constructive criticism of our work by readers will be welcome.

A New Responsibility

The news of recent weeks has been studded with accounts of censorship, news management and other bureaucratic controls. Of course, the natural counterpoint to these old tunes is responsibility. Earlier this week one of Davidson’s traditional controls was revised to allow a new freedom and certainly greater responsibility on the part of the student. We refer to the new decision of the faculty to allow greater latitude in vespers attendance. The thesis of the new plan is that students will be permitted to attend Sunday morning service in any church in the town of Davidson and pledge this attendance in place of the college-sponsored evening vesper services. The personal responsibility of the individual student in such a system is immediately evident. Such a pledge will be as much a part of the Honor System as pledged classwork and tests. This new freedom is the product of open minds, which believe that such a proposal is in the best interests of a conscientious student body. It took a certain amount of trust for the faculty to agree to such a proposal, and it will be the responsibility of the students not to take advantage of this freedom.

David Stitt

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Bill Pridgen

BUSINESS MANAGER
Bill Ruth

Associate Editors
Jeff Wampler

Managing Editors
Charles Dibble
Dave Pusey

Assistant Editors
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth

Sports Editor
Rick Lowery

Assistant Sports Editor
Tuck Jones

Feature Editor
Tom Loflin

Assignments Editor
John Todd

News Editor
Jimmy Downey

Photographers
Joe McCutchen
Buck Lawrimore

Cartoonists
Dan Adams
Joe Howell
Walter MacDonald
Rufus Hallmark

Assistant Bus. Manager
Charlie Smith

Advertising Manager
Irvine Welling

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Contributors: Bill Aitken, Jim Graves, Britt Snider, Paul Simpson, Bill Hufford, Tom Vinson, Don McKinnon, Bob Bryan, Andy Sale, Rich Doud, Forrest Roles, Bob Strauser, Bill Logan, Greg Govan, Tom Peaden.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Pahud Gives Insights

Valiant ADA Rhetoric Fails To Harvest Converts

BY JEAN-JACQUES PAHUD
Richardson Scholar

Born in the thirteenth century, grounded on a strong popular freedom, Switzerland presents the typical features of a true democracy. Let's overlook here the concept of neutrality which is a very ticklish question and which isn't subject to a plain definition. Switzerland is built on the life of her parts: the cantons. They are sovereign as long as their rights are not limited by the constitution. Therefore Swiss cantons are not simple administrative districts; they cannot be compared to the French departments, for example. Like the states of this country, they possess their own constitution, their legislative and executive power. The Federal Assembly, the legislative authority, represents the people and the cantons. It is formed after the image of the American pattern (Congress) with two chambers: the National Council, the equivalent of the American House of Representatives, representing the people and the States Council which is similar to your Senate, representing the cantons. The deputies of the two councils vote without instructions; for example, the members of the States Council do not receive any mandate of their cantons. However, the problem of the executive power was solved in a quite different way than it was in your country; the collegial regime replaces your presidential system. The nomination of the Federal Council (executive power) is a typical Swiss institution. The Federal Council is elected every fourth year by the Federal Assembly (both chambers together). It is composed of seven members and assumes the duties of the chief of the state. Its members are chosen among all Swiss citizens; but several subjects from the same canton cannot be elected. In fact, this election considers the various parts of the country, the different languages, religions, and political tendencies. Stability is one of the characteristics of the Swiss government: federal councillors are generally re-elected. The annual election of the president of the Confederation is a pure formality. The vice president in charge is always appointed as president and his successor is designated in a rotation established by the convention. In reality, the president of the Confederation is president of the Federal Council. He has no specific charges but some obligations of representation outside. A very typical Swiss feature is the lack of a true capital. Bern is certainly the federal town as the seat of the federal administration; but it is not the country’s center: federalist forces are set against each other. It remains the capital of the important canton of Bern but it is not a Swiss Washington (with its own territory). In the field of languages Switzerland is in full contrast with the characteristics generally attributed to a nation. During the 19th century countries were founded especially on a similarity of languages and races. Switzerland, where several languages are spoken, did not yield to this movement, attesting in this way that neither the tongue nor the race is the constitutive element of a nation. Whatever his native language may be, the Swiss is always a Swiss but never a German, a Frenchman, or

LETTERS

Dear Editor:

There’s a hole in the road about 20 yards west of Richardson dorm that is at least two yards wide and five inches deep. It is extremely hard on car tires and my teeth. If somebody doesn't fix it they're going to be pretty sorry.

Steve Pressler

To whom it may concern:

Davidson has nothing but a bunch of good-for-nothing, neglecting letter writers. It would seem that during a week free from academic responsibility, time could be found to drop a note of “sweet nothings” into the mail. Just you all wait till our vacation comes up!

Queens College girls pinned to Davidson “Gentlemen?”

During the 19th century countries were founded especially on a similarity of languages and races. Switzerland, where several languages are spoken, did not yield to this movement, attesting in this way that neither the tongue nor the race is the constitutive element of a nation. Whatever his native language may be, the Swiss is always a Swiss but never a German, a Frenchman, oran Italian. This Swiss character is, at the same time, a tie which links together three great European civilizations, in order to make a harmonious co-existence and co-operation of three different valuable cultures. Four different languages for so small a country (17,000 square miles or 0.5% of the continental U.S.) is an amazing fact. So they enjoy absolutely equivalent rights and they are without restrictions by the authorities of their own cantons. So in the Federal Assembly, for instance, speeches are pronounced in German, Italian, and French. Let us consider the respective importance of each of them: 3,500,000 inhabitants speak German, 1,000,000 French, 300,000 Italian, and 50,000 Romansh. People speaking Romansh have generally a second language, German. A linguistic particularity of Switzerland is the dialect spoken in the German part. The Swiss-German patois has a national importance, and so it is spoken as the usual language in every sense. The numerous dialects which differ from canton to canton are the native language of their inhabitants, while literary German is learned and spoken in schools, ceremonies, and Church services only. But in the French-speaking Switzerland, patois belongs to the past, being more and more supplanted by the literary tongue. These are the singularities of a single people among the innumerable singularities of our modern world.

Engle's Search For Form Brings Him To Festival
BY BOB ADAMS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Love of art is the force that motivates this man. Talk to Frank Engle, associate professor of art at the University of Alabama, and he'll discuss with you the function of the artist in society; contemporary trends such as “abstract expressionism,” and certainly the problems in his own work. Speaking on the function of the artist, Engle explained that the true artist does not work to satisfy the present public taste but works toward “final form” much as the philosopher searches for truth. He is less concerned with the knowledge that his work is meaningless to some than with the occasional accusation that his work resembles that of another artist. Although artists are influenced somewhat by others, he says, “Artists are connected.”

In discussing his own work Engle says “I work rapidly in a very short time... combining the emotional and intellectual approach to the subject.” Like other artists, he suffers mentally and physically at some stages of his work. He admits to being absent-minded and disorganized about some matters. In all his projects he is concerned with space and space forms. Sculpture and ceramics help him achieve the form he wants and also add variety to his work. When asked what he thought about the evolution of future art trends, what he thought would replace expressionism, cubism, and realism, Engle simply replied “something new.” He will undoubtedly be a contributor to the new trend, for he isn’t satisfied with his old work. “After a show I find something else to try.” The artist's expression is constantly changing, just as the economic and political conditions of life fluctuate. As Frank Engle stated, “Art and life can't be separated.” The meaning in a work of art varies for each individual observing it. Sometimes the artist's “search for final form” and the layman's capacity for aesthetic appreciation combine, and pleasure, the object of art, is realized.

Engle’s contribution to the Davidson Fine Arts Festival is presented in a variety of media. His work will be art to some observers and meaningless, chaotic shapes to others. It would be well worth a student's time, however, to browse through the Engle collection in the Fine Arts Center. In spite of himself, he might receive a more liberal education. According to Frank Engle, associate professor of art at the University of Alabama, art is a matter of individual taste: a painting or sculpture is not a work of art unless it is pleasing to the observer. For the layman, art is shapes and masses arranged to please, and for the artist, it is the “search for final form.”

A casual stroll through the corridors of the Fine Arts Center will quickly reveal that someone has been searching for that final form. When the student ventures inside the massive white door, his gaze is immediately arrested by the baleful stare of what appears to be a cyclopean eye fixed in a sea of darkness appropriately entitled “Sepia Galaxy.” Recovering from his initial reaction and daring to investigate further, he next observes the chartreuse and red hues of “Summer Light” at the left end of the corridor. In a small gallery off the main corridor, the artist has interspersed steel and copper sculpture among his paintings. “Torch Bloom,” “Inception,” and other titles only vaguely intimate the intrepid form of his sculpture.

“Spero Meliora”
BY RICK VON UNWERTH
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

“We are an organization of progressives!” A bold statement—and the call-to-arms for an even bolder program. Arthur Gorson, National Chairman of the Campus Division—Americans for Democratic Action (CADA), outlines his organization’s commitment in the latest issue of the CADA “Bulletin.” Copies are available in the Union—behind the door to the Morrison Room. “We are quite sure that we are for full civil rights,” says Gorson, “But how can we ever hope to have equality until the socio-economic inequalities in our society are changed.” A diagnosis of America’s socio-economic maladies appears to be the consuming interest of ADA's college-crowd crusaders. “Feudalistic power structure,” “the cultivation of poverty,” and a “reactionary Congress” are the culprits to which these torchbearers of young liberalism assign the responsibility for our shortcomings.

The case against the Congress and other social malefactors was presented in chapel Monday by Gorson in the flesh, outriding for the ADA in the South. Skirting the more “emotional” areas, Gorson strewed a handful of seeds from his utopian grab-bag at the students’ feet. The majority of the liberals’ ideas did not, perhaps unfortunately, find their fullest expression at the hands of the speaker. Among the commitments of Campus ADA is a noble dedication to the “elimination of poverty.” Their statement of principles, according to Gorson, includes the espousal of “economic security for all.” Chairman Gorson advocates “new and radical ways to dealing with” the problem of poverty. Generalizations are dangerous. However, to radicals and radicalism might generally be ascribed an innocent predilection to oversimplify. “Poverty in the United States,” pronounces a “Bulletin” feature, “could be eliminated, given one condition—that its continued existence shamed us and so angered us that we would be willing to support measures which, to be meaningful, would hurt the rich and powerful to the benefit of those who are neither. Given this sole condition poverty in America can be totally eliminated... .”

The Sherwood Forest economy was somewhat less complex than America’s. The Americans for Democratic Action are purportedly concerned primarily with “raising the questions” of civil liberty, social reforms, and the like. Many of the issues need to be called before—and kept before—the American people and their government representatives. In many instances, however, a penchant for drama and a passion for rapid, high-powered reform leads spirited idealism to overshoot the mark. The U.S. government is not geared for countdown legislation. Perhaps Gorson’s “radical reactionary congressmen” provide the stability so necessary in keeping the ship of state on course. Conservatively oriented Davidson rejected Gorson’s argument; the student body blithely smothered the germs he attempted to infect it with. He and his colleagues were attacked with surprisingly outspoken (and at times embarrassing) conviction in informal discussion. In this respect at least his brave sally merits applause. Whether Davidson agreed with him or not, Gorson at least tricked some of the students into thinking for an hour.

Top-Flight Flicks Offered In Future

This week's feature, ON THE BEACH, has its final showing tomorrow night at 8:15 in the College Union. Other films for this semester include:

April 16, 17, and 19 — LOLITA starring James Mason, Sue Lyon as Lolita, and Peter Sellers, from Vladimir Nabokov’s best-selling novel.

April 24, 25, and 27 — A TASTE OF HONEY, rated in Esquire as one of the ten best of the ‘62 season, a screen translation of a Broadway play.

May 1, 2, and 4 — SHANE, a significant achievement in the Hollywood vein of action-packed westerns.

May 15, 17, and 18 — THE BRIDGE, a prize-winning German film dealing with events at the end of WW II.

The Film Festival begins next week with F. W. Murnau's SUNRISE, a silent film with a musical score. Made in Hollywood in the infancy of the industry, SUNRISE has remained a film classic in terms of movie excellence and is still very entertaining to modern audiences, being more powerful than the majority of contemporary movies. The exam week schedule includes to date: MATING TIME, a British comedy; I'M ALL RIGHT JACK, with Peter Sellers; and WAR OF THE WORLDS, an adaptation of H. G. Wells' science fiction novel.

THERE'S NOTHING WORSE THAN COMING HOME TO AN EMPTY HOUSE!