PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

HPs Run Tactics In Field To Prepare For Camp

BY TOM LOFLIN

While the rest of the Cadet Corps enjoyed its usual drill period, Capt. C. C. Partridge had his MS I's out in the boondocks the past two weeks preparing them for the patrolling and field problems that they will have in summer camp. Now that the III’s have finished their six hours of work in the field for the semester, the general consensus of opinion among the cadre and MS IV camp veterans is that the Juniors will go to Ft. Bragg much better prepared for the tactical exercises than have Davidson students in the past.

This past Tuesday, the III's got to run a series of field problems over eight different lanes, each of which presented a different challenge. The Juniors were divided up into squads of seven or eight each so that a different leader could be chosen to perform on each lane. The problems challenged military ingenuity in such things as taking a machine gun nest, handling prisoners, and dealing with unexpected civilians in the field.

There was one man in the field that day who had never in his long life seen anything like the battle that raged through the once-peaceful Davidson woods. He was the old Negro woodcutter clearing away the wilds so that civilization might progress with the expansion of a cemetery near the lane. He cut his wood doggedly, with a ceaseless rhythm. He would only stop to rest when I asked him what he thought of the combat zone. “I guess it’s all right for dem boys to get some fun,” he said in an old voice. And then he went back to cutting, slowly but methodically. “It’s gwan be a col’ winter,” were his last words.

But it will be hot in July at Ft. Bragg. And thanks to Capt. Partridge’s belief in experience, which was verified to some extent in the improved performance of the III's last Tuesday, Davidson cadets will be a little bit better prepared for their summer.

Turkey Shoot Open For Sharpshooters

BY JEFF WAMPLER

The annual Thanksgiving Turkey Shoot, sponsored by the Davidson chapter of Scabbard and Blade Society, will be held on Monday, Nov. 25 in the basement of Belk Dormitory. The shooting will begin at 4 p.m., with members of the rifle team supervising the firing. At 6:30, when the event ends, prizes donated by local merchants will be awarded.

Faculty and administration, as well as those not directly connected with the college, are invited to come and bring their families. Entertainment will be provided throughout the afternoon for the children and plenty of refreshments will be on hand. Ivan Rohrer, commander of the local Scabbard and Blade unit, notes the success of last year's shoot and expressed his hope that there will be a large turnout on Monday.

Student Body Accepts Continuation Of NSA

By a 310 to 179 vote, the Davidson student body elected to remain affiliated with the National Student Association for a one-semester trial period in the special referendum last Monday.

President John Spratt, who expressed “surprise at the margin” in the Student Council election, felt that the turnout was “a popular demand for us to do something with NSA at Davidson.” Along that line, he revealed:

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Applewhite
Bondurant
Hampton
Johnson, N. B.
Frey
Gallent
Ghigo
Logan
McGill
Mansour
Parker
Pinkerton
Purcell
Thies
White, H. E.
Wruck

Rev. Louis Patrick

The Rev. Dr. Louis Patrick, pastor of the Trinity Presbyterian Church of Charlotte and past religious emphasis speaker on campus, will be the guest speaker.

LOOK AT A FLA. COLLEGE

No Freedom In Church Schools?

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

“Davidson has the potential of being the best institution of higher education in the South,” Dean John Bevan told me Monday. But the ex-Davidson professor who left here in 1959 to set up the curriculum at Florida Presbyterian, a school that will graduate its first class this year, would not point out the weaknesses that he felt thus far had kept us from obtaining that enviable position. “You must understand,” he smiled, “that I still have a lot of friends here.”

Bevan would say that he thought the self-evaluation of Davidson being led by Dr. C. J. Pietenpol could help this college make progress in the field of education: “I had a talk with Dr. Pietenpol and left some suggestions with him. I also urged him to travel over the entire country and talk with professors of leading institutions and get ideas from them that might be introduced at Davidson. It's all right to talk with administrators, but the professors are the only ones who know enough about various programs to be of any real value.”

Bevan did not wish to make public any suggestions for changes in the Davidson program because he felt that only those people who in the end must live and work with the changes should make such decisions. He evidently did not want anyone here to feel that he was trying to force his ideas on Davidson. But he did mention several things that he felt made Florida Presbyterian a good college and that differ from the program here.

Perhaps the most interesting difference is the fact that at Florida Presbyterian there are no required exercises of any kind. Even attendance at classes is not mandatory. “We just do not believe that worship can be enforced on an individual,” Bevan said. “And it is also a definite truth that a professor has just as much responsibility as the student in the educative process. If a professor is doing a good job, he will not have students cutting classes.

“It must be quite a jolt to the professor who constantly has about a third of his class missing to look next door and see a full class taught by another teacher. It may cause him to stop and think and improve himself.”

It is quite interesting to note that one Presbyterian school, at least, does not require religion. It is also interesting to observe the fact that Davidson receives only a fraction of its income from the church while an institution that gets a very high percentage of support from Presbyterianism does not try to cram religion down its student’s throats.

Bevan explained the reason for such liberality at this school. It is really a very simple explanation. “The trustees and the faculty got together for three days to approve the final curriculum.program. They were really at one another’s throats part of the time. Some of the ministers would lean over and pound the table, but the professors would lean over and pound right back.” In the end, it appears, the educators—who should know their job better than preachers—won out on most of the points. The Florida school has a great issues program that makes our YMCA-sponsored thing (for lack of a better word) look as dark as the Africa Walt MacDonald wants to emerge and break into a blaze of native campfires. Every Monday night there is a man with great knowledge of some modern, controversial affair to speak to the student body there. While Dr. J. O. Embry and President D. G. Martin struggle here for a junior-year abroad for the brighter language students, Bevan’s school has had from the beginning what it calls the Winter Semester. This is a period of six weeks that a student travels to a foreign country to do some type of study. “When a student goes overseas, he has to know that language he has studied here,” smiled Bevan. “Of course, some of our students go to England. We once had a group who went to study the history of London.” Bevan said he felt there “was a certain spirit of aliveness” one could feel among the Florida Presbyterian student body. He admitted one thing that might help is the fact that almost half the students are women. The fact that such a spirit can exist might seem strange to the Davidson student who spends most of his spare time “up the road” or, if he is a Gnome, cramming in facts for reviews.

MEET YOU WHILE EATING PIZZA at the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

After The Game Visit The TASTEE-FREEZ Cornelius for Pizza, Hamburgers, Hot Dogs, Hot Chocolate

For Quality Printing Dial TW 2-6651 Fraternity Newspapers, Invitations, Stationery, Cards, Programs, Booklets, etc. Each Order Given Prompt Attention Davidson Printing Company The Davidsonian Printers

Dr. Patrick, who has spoken at several campuses, will speak at the vesper service Sunday night on “Abiding Features on Changing Faces.” Before coming to Charlotte in January 1963, from the Second Presbyterian Church of Kansas City, Mo., Dr. Patrick had held pastorates in Statesville, Charlotte, and St. Louis, Mo. He also served two years during World War II as a U.S. Marine Corps chaplain in the Pacific Theater. A native of Newberry, S. C., Dr. Patrick attended Erskine College and Princeton University. He has done graduate work at Columbia University and Union Theological Seminary in New York. He received the DD degree from Westminster College in Missouri.

Similarly, Pat Freeny, who initiated the petition for the referendum said, “The NSA is now on trial. The election will have served a good purpose if it forces the NSA to get on the ball here.” Freeny predicted that the Student Council “will probably get the NSA name connected with some big project on campus.” “Not only will there be another referendum this spring,” Spratt stated, “but as long as the NSA stays on the campus, there will be an election every year to determine the student body's attitude toward this subject.” On the other hand, Freeny said, “I will be interested to see if there is another vote.” Spratt reiterated his earlier invitation to interested students to take advantage of the opportunity to attend the NSA Youth Conference on Human Rights in Washington, D. C., Dec. 6. The Student Council will pay at least part of the expenses of the delegates from Davidson.

LBJ (Continued From Page One) won the presidential nomination on the first ballot. He was the minority leader in the 83rd Congress and the majority leader of the 84th-86th Congresses.

AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE

ENJOYING THE BEST

To those of you who will be in Charlotte during the Thanksgiving holiday, we cordially invite you to come and visit with us on our 3rd Floor Shop—Downtown—also our Park Road Store. If you need a check cashed—just ask. We wish for each of you a Wonderful and Joyous Thanksgiving.

TATE-BROWNS CHARLOTTE 128 S. TRYON ST.

The NSA will include the channeling of civil rights information to the new Civil Rights Union of Davidson. Next semester, according to Spratt, there will probably be a forum on “Academic Freedom at Davidson.”

Round, Barefoot Boy With Cheek

SHOULD AULD ACQUAINTANCE AND JAZZ LIKE THAT

I am now an elderly gentleman, full of years and aches, but my thoughts keep ever turning to my undergraduate days. This is called “arrested development.” But I cannot stop the healing tide of nostalgia that washes over me as I recall those golden campus days, those ivy-covered buildings (actually, at my college, there was only ivy: no bricks), those pulse-tingling lectures on John Dryden and Cotton Mather, the many friends I made, the many deans I bit. I know some of you are already dreading the day when you graduate and lose touch with all your merry classmates. It is my pleasant task today to assure you that it need not be so; all you have to do is join the Alumni Association and every year you will receive a bright, newsy, chatty bulletin, chock-full of tidings about your old buddies. Oh, what a red-letter day it is at my house, the day the Alumni Bulletin arrives! I cancel all my engagements, take the phone off the hook, dismiss my resident osteopath, put the cheetah outside, and settle down for an evening of pure pleasure with the Bulletin and (need I add?) a good supply of Marlboro Cigarettes. Whenever I am having fun, Marlboro makes the fun even more fun. That filter, that flavor, that yielding soft pack, that firm Flip Top box, never fails to heighten my pleasure whether I am playing Double Canfield or watching the radio or knitting an afghan or enjoying any other diverting pursuit you might name—except, of course, spear fishing. But then, how much spear fishing does one do in Clovis, New Mexico, where I live? But I digress. Let us return to my Alumni Bulletin and the fascinating news about my old friends and classmates. I quote from the current issue:

“Well, fellow alums, it certainly has been a wing-dinger of a year for us old grads! Remember Mildred Cheddar and Harry Camembert, those crazy kids who always held hands in Econ II? Well, they’re married now and living in Clovis, New Mexico, where Harry rents spear-fishing equipment, and Mildred has just given birth to a lovely 28-pound daughter, her second in four months. Nice going, Mildred and Harry!

“Remember Jethro Brie, the man we voted most likely to succeed? Well, old Jethro is still gathering laurels! Last week he was voted ‘Motorman of the Year’ by his fellow workers in the Duluth streetcar system. ‘I owe it all to my brakeman,’ said Jethro in a characteristically modest acceptance speech. Same old Jethro!

“Probably the most glamorous time had by any of us old alums was had by Francis Macomber last year. He went on a big game hunting safari all the way to Africa! We received many interesting post cards from Francis until he was, alas, accidentally shot and killed by his wife and white hunter. Tough luck, Francis!

“Wilametta ‘Deadeye’ Macomber, widow of the late beloved Francis Macomber, was married yesterday to Fred ‘Sureshot’ Sigafoos, white hunter, in a simple double-ring ceremony in Nairobi. Many happy returns, Wilametta and Fred!

“Well, alums, that just about wraps it up for this year. Buy bonds!”

© 1963 Max Shulman

Old grads, new grads, undergrads, and non-grads all agree: that good Richmond tobacco recipe, that clean Selectrate filter, have turned all fifty states of the Union into Marlboro Country. Won't you join the throng?