FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

The Wildcat Screams Tonight
BY T. F. LOFLIN ! D. T. STITT

“This is a chance of a lifetime for me. This is really an experience. They're probably teaching me more than I’m teaching them.” These were the words of Coach Charlie Parker as he watched the 1963 United States Pan American Wrestling Team work on the mats for the first time in Johnston Gymnasium. Team Manager Manuel Gorriaran, a Providence, Rhode Island, manufacturer in his spare time, wandered over. “This is one of the best teams that ever went to the mat for the United States,” he said. “They should do as well as the team that went to the 1959 Pan Am Games.” (That team won a gold medal in every weight division.)

From mighty, muscular Joseph Israel James to the mustachioed mite Andrew Fitch, this team is a dedicated group of men who share the common goal of bringing honor to their country. No less dedicated are Parker and Gorriaran. Parker has long been recognized as an outstanding wrestling coach in the South. Now he has achieved national recognition by being selected to coach the finest wrestling team in the country. And he said that as far as he knows, Davidson is the first campus in the South that has ever been able to host a Pan American or Olympic team. The very fact that the team is going to the Pan Am Games; indeed, the very fact that wrestling is included on the Pan Am program is due to Gorriaran’s influence. In 1933 he persuaded officials of the Central American Games to include wrestling in their program, and this tradition has been carried over to the Pan Am Games.

As the wrestlers began warm-up exercises, photographers called Big Eight Champion James and 1959 National Intercollegiate Champion Fitch over for publicity shots. The contrast between the 225 lb. James, who resembled a Herculean gladiator in his wrestling uniform, and the 114 lb. Fitch was almost unbelievable. To oblige photographers, James lifted Fitch high into the air. Parker then suggested that Fitch pose lifting James. The little man stepped back, looked up at his big teammate, measured his many muscles with a glance, and shook his head in disbelief.

Parker had imported big Jerry Cabe, a 220 lb. football player and wrestler from UNC, to work with James. Parker described Cabe as an excellent wrestler for this part of the country, but James was almost apologetic as he lifted Cabe over his head and deposited him on the mat in their first workout. “He’s got the speed of a 123 pounder,” Cabe gasped after his brief encounter with James. “And he’s big as hell.”

Lefty Driesell stepped into the gym for a few minutes to watch James work out. As he was leaving, a student asked him what he was up to. Lefty replied, “I just came down to see if Coach Parker needed a heavyweight.”

On the other side of the mat, Fitch was working out with 125 lb. Bill Riddle, the Eastern AAU champion of last year. After a spirited match between those two, Davidson’s Dick Wray bounded onto the mat against Fitch, but he soon crawled off. “It was like trying to stop a train,” panted Wray, who had put up an unusually good fight considering the odds.

Also matched in the practice were 191 lb. Jim Ferguson, the only American wrestler ever to finish as high as third in a world match, and 174 lb. Dennis Fitzgerald, former Big Ten champion. Fitzgerald, the only married member of the team, had to leave his wife in Michigan.

After the practice, the quiet and reserved James, a junior at Oklahoma State University, sat resting on a bench in the locker room. Someone asked him what he intended to do after graduation, and James had a rather surprising answer. A sincere Catholic, he explained that he is an English major and hopes to become a writer. “I have always liked English and I would like to write about man himself—what he is, why he does what he does, and what part religion plays in his life.” He also explained that he never takes any weight training to build muscles. “I just wrestle,” he said.

He did not have long to rest, however, because Coach Parker soon had the team running up and down the stands of Richardson Stadium. Gorriaran said his boy was in the best shape of any American team that ever appeared on the mat in international competition, and they took three gold medals. Coach Parker definitely expects his team to be in medal-taking condition when they reach Sao Paulo, Brazil, for the Pan Am Games. They undoubtedly will be.

Baseballers Meet Gobblers Saturday

Baseball Batting Statistics
Individual Batting — 10 or more AB.
G AB R H RBI BA
Walker 7 12 3 6 1 .500
Whitley 10 38 7 11 8 .289
Hamilton 10 35 4 9 8 .257
McNay 9 27 3 6 4 .222
Rust 5 10 0 2 0 .200
Cole 9 31 3 5 4 .161
Hutchins 9 13 3 2 1 .154
Smyre 10 34 3 5 2 .147
Tuttle 10 35 6 5 1 .142
Earle 10 26 1 3 0 .115
Gribbs 6 13 0 0 1 .000

Davidson Team Statistics
Games AB R H PO A E 2B 3B HR BA FA
10 315 39 58 246 93 32 5 2 4 .163 .919

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

... AND OVER

JOE JAMES, giant heavyweight from Oklahoma State University, takes Dennis Fitzgerald, former Big Ten champion from the University of Michigan, for a short ride which ended rather abruptly. The two were part of the U.S. Pan-American Games wrestling team, which is currently working out at Davidson under the guidance of Coach Charlie Parker and Manager Manuel Gorriaran. (Staff Photo by A. Kennedy)

Golf Prospects Not Dim In Conference Tourney

When the dust cleared and the divots stopped flying, golf coach Tom Scott surveyed his charges and concluded that while they may have lost a couple of battles, the prospects are anything but bleak for a victory in their war to capture the coming Southern Conference tournament at Myrtle Beach, S. C.

Over the holidays the golf team dropped matches to Wake Forest and UNC by decisive scores, but defeated a strong alumni team and got in some practice at the Dunes Club course at Myrtle Beach in preparation for the tournament. These matches brought the golfers’ season record to an even 5-5, but all of the losses were to Atlantic Coast Conference teams.

In the only freshman golf match played so far, the Davidson team beat Oak Ridge Military Academy in Mooresville on March 29 by a decisive 22-5. Davidson's H. W. Covington was medalist there with a 71, and F. H. Gibbs and Doug McKeever also looked good in recording 75 and 78 respectively.

BY ANDY SALE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson baseball team returned from a spring tour last week after breaking even with two wins and two losses, but dropped two games to Virginia Military Institute last weekend in Lexington, Va. On April 1 and 2, the ’Cats lost two games to Georgia Southern, who took the NAIA small college championship last year, 6-1 and 9-5. On Wednesday however, Davidson outmaneuvered Fort Stewart to gain an 8-7 victory as Tommy Hamilton finished the day with a home run. Then Dave Johnson, a sophomore pitcher, shut out Mercer's Baptist best with an 8-0 victory.

The team returned home, but had to cool their heels when the William and Mary game was rained out Friday. From Davidson the team moved on to Lexington to meet VMI, but the Keydets dealt a double punch to the ‘Cats by taking both games, 4-3 and 9-4. Hamilton again came through, however, with another homer in the second game.

The Wildcats are presently licking the wounds of a 2 and 8 season.

‘33 Cal Champs Return Saturday

The Davidson-VPI doubleheader on Saturday, April 13 will be attended by members of Davidson's 1933 baseball team who are on campus celebrating the 30th anniversary of their North Carolina state championship.championship. They will be honored between games, as will be present VPI coach G. F. “Red” Laird, who was the Davidson baseball coach in 1933. The men who definitely are coming are Captain Earl Bradsher, George Baily, Floyd L. Bumgarner, Charles Harris, Allen Mille, James Morgan, Joseph Morrison, George Neal, Rev. John Whitley, and Fred Smyre, who has a son at Davidson.

IMAC Basketball All-Stars Elected

Steve Clark, Intramural Athletic Council president, announced this afternoon the 1963 Intramural All-Star Basketball Team. Captain of the team, which is elected by the players themselves, is Phil Squier, second high scorer for the season with a 17.4 average. The scoring leader, Charlie Marshall, who averaged 17.8 points per game, polled the second highest number of votes. The co-champion Independent team placed one man on each of the two teams, as did the runner-up Phi Delts. The Kappa Sigs, who tied the Independents for the championship, placed men in the top two spots of the second team. The All-Star team in order of number of votes polled is as follows:

FIRST TEAM
1. Phil Squier, Phi Delt
2. Charlie Marshall, KA
3. Gary Martin, Ind.
4. Pack Hindsley, Phi Gam
5. Paul Duvall, ATO

SECOND TEAM
1. Johnny Rogers, KS
2. Jim Fuller, KS
3. John Barrow, Phi Delt
4. Arthur Clark, Sigma Nu
5. Stu Burness, Ind.

Davidson has not lost to a Southern Conference team while winning four. Scott feels that his team’s good showings against conference competition indicate that Davidson should do well in the tournament. The Wake Forest squad, which Scott describes as “one of the better teams in the country,” beat the ’Cats 33-3 in Gastonia on April 4. Frank McPhillips was low for Davidson with a 74, while Wake’s Sam Folkes, North Carolina amateur champion, was overall medalist with a 71. Then on April 5, Davidson came out on the short end of a 22½-7½ score to UNC at the Charlotte Country Club. Davidson medalist there was Tom Romoda with a par 72, but UNC’s Arnold took overall honors with a hot 70. On Saturday, April 6, the 'Cats went back to Gastonia to take on an alumni team in the rain, and won 19½-16½. Dick Nickel was overall medalist there with a 75. Two of the alumni participating, Sam Sloan and Al Gaither, played on former Davidson teams. Also playing in these matches for Davidson were Bob Bost, Jim Cooper, Mackie McClelland.

date...late...shower...shave...nick...ouch...dress...rush...rip...change...drive...speed...flat...fix...arrive...wait...wait...pause...take a break...things go better with Coca-Cola.

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by: Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord.

The team is predicting more victories. Coach Stevens stated that the team as a whole has good pitching but is still searching for better hitting. Stevens has hopes for Tommy Tuttle, a leading hitter last year, but who has yet to reach his prime this season. Davidson is now holding on to the hitting skills of Hamilton, Lance Walker, Tommy Whitley, and Tony McNey, who presently lead a team which owns an aggregate batting average of .183. On the brighter side, Stevens points to the team pitching of Hamilton, Johnson, Earl Cole, and Ron Rudolph. This Saturday the team will have their hands full with VPI, who just defeated ACC-leading Wake Forest.

Speedy ’Cats Spike PC, Retain Spotless Record

BY JEFF WAMPLER
Davidsonian Associate Editor

The Wildcat track team nipped Presbyterian College 70-60 Wednesday to keep their won-lost record for the season spotless. Coach Heath Whittle was obviously pleased with the results and credited the win to a fine team effort. “The boys are coming along well. We aren't deep in any event, but we have the strength where it is needed.” Whittle had special words of praise for Alan Turner, his sophomore speedster who runs the 100, 220, and low hurdles. “Turner is developing real well. He's a fine competitor, strong, and works well under pressure. I expect him to run the 100 in under 10 seconds before the season is over.” Turner has been averaging about 15 points per meet and is undefeated in competition this year.

In a triangular meet in Atlanta on March 30, the ’Cats whipped Emory University and Southern Tech 80-67-30. Counting wins in triangular meets as two victories, the team has a 5-0 record for the year. This weekend the 'Cats journey to Greenville for the News-Piedmont Relays. Whittle noted that this is always a good meet. He expects heavy competition from such schools as Florida State, Clemson, South Carolina, Furman, and Tennessee.

Looking ahead to the Davidson Relays on April 27, Whittle was guardedly optimistic. “Washington and Lee gave us a real battle last year. I suppose I'd have to call them slight favorites in this year’s meet primarily because of their strength in the relays and field events.” More schools than ever have entered the event this year, including Emory, Lenoir Rhyne, East Carolina, Presbyterian, High Point, and others.

What about prospects for the rest of the year? “Billy Mills holds the school record in the pole vault (12'7") and should break it soon. Ronnie Reese is running well in the 880, and should come in under two minutes any meet now. Sterling Martin will probably break the school record in the two-mile run when he meets some real competition. A boy named Patterson at Furman is about the only runner in the conference who can challenge him seriously.” Whittle noted that the team strength lies in the relays and sprints. The weakness of the team is in the field events, although Keith Frasier holds the school record in the high jump. “This is one of the finest seasons we've had,” concluded Whittle. “I predict we'll finish the season with seven wins and two losses (to V.P.I. and Wake Forest). But even the losses should be real close.”

THE BATISTE OXFORD SHIRTMAKERS

The cooling propensities of lightest-weight Batiste are now joined to the texture and weave of fine Oxford. The result? A cotton conservative that will stand up to the warmest days in style. Handsomely, comfortably designed with an authentic button-down collar and short sleeves in Blue, Linen, Maize, and White at $5.95.

Rush Wilson Ltd.