REACTION ON GOODYKOONTZ (See Page Two)

VOL. LI

College Releases Former President Sparks Debate At Council Meeting

John Spratt, president of the Student Council, and Danny Carrell, the past president, locked horns in council debate on Carrell’s motion to give the Honor Court the authority to interpret controversial sections of the Student Body Constitution at the council’s meeting Wednesday night. Carrell’s motion was to give the Honor Court the power to interpret articles seven and eight of the Student Body Constitution. (Article seven is the Honor Code and article eight is the Student Body Regulations.)

Carrell said that the Honor Court was originally set to enforce the Honor Code and Student Body Regulations. The Student Council, not the Honor Court, now has the power of interpretation. Carrell called the Honor Court a “policeman for the Student Council and not a court as such.” Carrell’s amendment, if passed by the Student Body, would give the Honor Court the legal right to interpret these articles. Carrell said that the Honor Court was actually using this power now, but he pointed out that there was always a chance that the Student Council would override a decision of the Honor Court. After pointing out that this motion had been defeated twice by last year's council, Carrell called the group “selfish” for not giving the Honor Court authority to interpret what it is intended to enforce.

In countering next year's Student Body President John Spratt’s argument that there has never been a problem of this nature, Carrell points out the possibilities of one in the future. Carrell in his argument mentioned that three areas in the Student Body regulations were particularly general ones and would need interpretation: gambling, hazing, and dormitory practices.

Spratt, on the other hand, does favor a clearing up of the matter, but feels that the Student Council should have the right to make policy declarations which the Honor Court must obey. He mentioned in particular the ambiguity of the word “campus” which is involved in these regulations. He pointed out that a clarification of this word might very probably be needed in an Honor Court trial, and he considered the Student Council the body that should perform this clarification.

Carrell's motion was tabled by the council until the meeting next week. In other business of the council, Spratt said that the committee on gambling was waiting before taking any action or making any decisions until something was announced or done by the Honor Court. Next year's members from the council to the Student Activities Committee will be John Spratt, and sophomores Tom Heffner, Will Jackson, and Charlie Marshall. Walter MacDonald was named to the Magazine Advisory Board, and John Barrow will be Gun Room Manager next year. Bruce Swain was named to the Foreign Students Committee, which will also include members of the Union Board and the YMCA. John Killian, member of last year’s council, noted that all the discussion on the Honor Court “problem” was done by himself, Spratt, Carrell, and Fred McGuirt, senior member of the council. He urged the new council to take a more active part and express their views on all questions before the council.

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1963

W. F. Goodykoontz Resignation Effective Immediately

Twenty-six students marched to the office of Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston at 3:15 this afternoon only to fail in their attempts to persuade the College to reconsider its acceptance of Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz's resignation. The students, most of whom are currently enrolled in classes under Goodykoontz, asked the dean to reconsider his Wednesday decision which put the controversial professor's resignation into effect immediately. The marchers tried to persuade Johnston to permit Goodykoontz to continue meeting his classes through the end of the semester.

After a 40-minute discussion with Johnston, the five students who presented numerous written requests to the dean emerged from his office to inform their cohorts that their effort had been in vain. Other members of the English Department began Goodykoontz's classes yesterday. This morning Goodykoontz addressed 350-400 students in the Morrison Room of the College Union Building. Discussion, which continued for over two hours, touched on all issues raised during the controversy. Goodykoontz told THE DAVIDSONIAN late last night that he would talk to the General Counsel of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) this morning and ask about “the legal right, or lack of it, for the administration to act in this manner (accepting his resignation with so little time remaining in the semester).” Goodykoontz stated that it did not really make any difference to him whether

IFC President Announces New Committee Members
BY BILL HUFFORD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Interfraternity Council President Haynes Kelly announced the formation of the five standing committees for next year at the IFC meeting Monday night. Chairman of the Dance Weekend Committee is Larry Baucom, and members are Pete Crow, George Worthen, Erwin Spainhour, and Hill Wellford. On the General Planning Committee are Britt Smith, John Spratt, Bill Lynn, and Chairman Jim Overton. Members of the Greek Week Committee are Rick von Unwerth, chairman; Steve Heckard, Jerry Trammell, and J. D. Whitehead. Ed Haselden is head of the Publicity Committee, which includes Jim Binkley, Tim Kimrey, and Jim Tanner. Chairman Dave Olin, Fred Harrison, Barry Teague, Bill Beerman, and Hugh Martin are the members of the Rush Week Committee.

Olin, Rush Week chairman, presented two procedural changes to the IFC. The first change would help to eliminate the confusion as to the confirmation of dates to fraternity rush parties during Rush Week. Olin plans to set up a master board, something like a stock board, with each freshman listed in alphabetical order. Beside each name there will be spaces for each rush party during the week. As the confirmed dates are received, they will be posted on the board. The rush chairmen can at a glance see who is coming to which party. Olin commented, “This way everything will be much smoother, especially for the rush chairmen. Not only can he see who is coming, but also whether his list is complete.”

The second change tries to end the problem of bids being lost in the mail. “We plan,” Olin explained, “to make the IFC the middle man, eliminating the post office. The IFC will handle all the distribution of bids.” To do this Olin proposes that the IFC have for each freshman a manila envelope with his name on it. The fraternities as usual will put

Arbuckle Focuses Light On Gambling

Howard Arbuckle, chairman of the Honor Court, who was present at the Student Council meeting Wednesday night, said the court's chief concern involves not its authority but the gambling problem that has arisen on Davidson's campus. He told THE DAVIDSONIAN, “We know there is gambling and something must be done with it. No eyes are going to be closed and no backs turned.” He pointed out that the Honor Court had done nothing to combat this problem yet because they couldn't go around looking for specific cases of the problem. He did say, however, that the Court did have some names of students participating already and that the Honor Court would act decisively if cases were brought to them. Arbuckle said that the whole problem began early this year and “the Honor Court did nothing about it, so it just grew and grew and grew.” He also mentioned that the real danger in gambling was that it might lead to more serious problems, such as stealing and drinking on campus. He said that THE DAVIDSONIAN should be the means by which the Honor Court gets through to the Student Body. He stated that he plans to use the newspaper much more in this capacity.

John Todd Takes Journalism Award

THE DAVIDSONIAN held its annual staff awards banquet in the private dining room of the College Union Monday night. The D. Grier Martin Award for the best writer on the staff during the past year was presented to John Todd, a freshman from Gastonia. Todd, an Independent, is now serving as Assignments Editor of the paper and received the award in recognition of his outstanding work in handling several extensive assignments this past year. Bill Hagen, past editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, recognized Dave Stitt, past managing editor and present editor, Charlie Ramberg, past assignments editor, Charlie Dibble, former news editor, and Tom Loflin, feature writer, for outstanding work during the past year. In a speech following the meal, Hagen commented on THE DAVIDSONIAN and the power of the press on the campus. “The present furor,” stated Hagen, “does show what power the press has on present and future issues. Publicity is pretty near the jugular vein of a college.” In his closing comments Hagen pointed out that many persons fail to realize that most of the issues presented in THE DAVIDSONIAN are not products of the paper and staff. He then commended the new staff for the work thus shown and turned the platform over to Stitt who made several remarks concerning the gravity of the job in the coming year.

Duke Fund Endows Davidson $125,000

Davidson College has received a $125,000 grant from the trustees of the Duke Endowment Fund, who met here last Tuesday. The announcement was made by R. Grady Rankin of Gastonia, vice-chairman of the endowment. It will provide $45,000 to aid in the financing of four improvement plans of the college, and the remaining $80,000 will be applied to the cost of the new wing for the College Union building. The $45,000 portion will be used as follows: $25,000 for library books and an additional staff member for one year; $10,000 for faculty study and sabbatical grants; $7,000 to aid in the operation of the computer center which students and faculty can use in research; and $3,000 for the preparation and equipment of additional faculty offices. The College Union addition will include space for the student store, an enlarged recreational area, and, eventually, for expanded dining facilities. The contract has been awarded and work has begun on the addition. The wing will be ready for use sometime during the 1963-64 academic year. The remaining $45,000 of the cost of the addition will be financed with funds received from other sources.

The Duke Endowment Trustees had a full day on the campus, beginning with a business session on Tuesday morning. After their meeting, they were taken on a tour of the Humanities lecture room and the administrative offices. Before a buffet luncheon, the group visited the college's new recreational area on Lake Norman. At the luncheon Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the faculty, spoke on “Challenges Before Us.” The late James B. Duke established the Duke Endowment in 1924 to provide financial assistance to colleges and other nonprofit institutions. Davidson is one of four educational institutions which receive assistance from the endowment. According to President D. Grier Martin, the Duke Endowment has been the greatest single factor in the financial support of the college.Their bids into regular envelopes and turn them into the IFC. At a specified time Saturday morning, the freshmen would come to the College Union and pick up his envelope containing his bids. All the freshmen would be given an envelope even if he did not receive any bids. In order to stop any fraternity from informal rushing Thursday and Friday of orientation, the council will vote next Monday on a proposal to prevent any contact between fraternity men and freshmen before dorm rush on Saturday. Next week the IFC will also discuss ways of enforcing the rules against “dirty rush” and the “gentleman's agreement” of the 15-minute meeting, now or at the end of the semester. He did say that he thought it would do harm to the students in his classes for him to leave at the present time: “It seems to me this is a petty act on the part of the administration that shows their indifference toward the students.” Dr. D. Grier Martin, president of Davidson College, said that the action was taken at this time “because Dr. Goodykoontz submitted his resignation.” Martin stated that the resignation could have been accepted at the end of the semester but said, “We did not see fit to do so (accept the resignation at that time).” He also said that he realized that “there will be both good effects and bad effects” on the students in Goodykoontz's courses. When asked to elaborate on the good and bad effects, Martin said, “I am not in a position to comment at this time.” Goodykoontz offered to resign from the college on Tuesday provided that two conditions were met: That “my contract for the year be paid in full and all Vagabond transportation and equipment expenses be paid in full,” and that, “the President retract publicly the false statement about my pay or pay for all substantial teaching and activity assignments beyond the so-called normal load that I have undertaken since I came to Davidson.” Wednesday, Dean Johnston replied to the offer by a letter in which he stated that the college would agree to the first condition upon presentation of vouchers of Vagabond expenses and would meet the second condition by paying Goodykoontz an extra year's salary ($8600). That letter also included the following statements: “I know that you have often expended your energies beyond the call of duty,” and “Since we will need the rooms in the Fine Arts Building for the activities of the Executive Weekend, we plan to take down the exhibitions on Friday morning if you have not removed them before.” 

Bob Young To Become New Dean

Robert C. Young, Davidson graduate of '61, will serve as the new Assistant Dean of Students in the coming year. According to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Young will be a regular appointee. That is, he is not appointed for an interim period but will hold the job for an indefinite time. Young attended Davidson on a Dana Scholarship and was a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity. While at Davidson he was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity and Scabbard and Blade. In his senior year he was Cadet Corps Commander and was named to Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities. At present Young is stationed in Germany where he is finishing his term in the Army.

The exhibits mentioned in the letter were the spark which set off the controversy between Goodykoontz and the administration. Goodykoontz, with the aid of about a dozen student volunteers, removed the exhibits Thursday night. Goodykoontz admitted that even though he did not specify a date for resignation in his letter, “I did not mean to imply that I wished to resign immediately.” He sent a letter yesterday to Johnston stating this fact which had the following clause: “...it is scarcely possible for a new teacher—however gifted—to come into courses at this stage of the semester and complete them satisfactorily.” Johnston refused to permit Goodykoontz to stay on to the end of the semester, however. He said in a letter, also dated yesterday, “There is no point in stipulating that your contract (Continued On Page Four)... it is scarcely possible for...

CATS TAKE OWN RELAYS (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE

DR. W. F. GOODYKOONTZ Center of Controversy

Twelve Faculty Members Leave Gaps To Be Filled

BY PAUL SIMPSON Davidsonian Staff Writer

Again, the annual spring winds of change have swept over Davidson College, leaving in their wake 12 gaps in the ranks of this year’s faculty. From the high country of Northern Michigan to the low country of South Carolina, and as far distant as Charlotte, the seeds from the fields of Davidson are blowing to new fields—whether by permanent change of location, temporary absences, or retirement.

Two professors plan to retire at the end of this semester.

Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, professor of physics, is officially retiring from Davidson at the end of this semester. Pietenpol says that he has made no specific plans for the future as of yet.

Dr. A. V. Goldiere, professor of French, after 41 years at Davidson is officially retiring in June, although he will teach Spanish in the summer school. In August, he and Mrs. Goldiere will escort a group of 80 students to Aix-en-Provence in southern France, where he will teach basic French next year at an Institute for American Universities. After nine months there, the Goldieres plan to travel in Europe before returning to Davidson next summer.

Six professors will be on leaves or sabbaticals for ranging lengths of time.

Dr. W. P. Cumming, head of the English department, with his wife, will spend the next college year in India, where Cumming has been awarded a Fulbright Lectureship at Annamalai University. He will teach courses in English Literature at the coed institution of 3000 students, 123 miles south of Madras. This lectureship appointment, under the auspices of the U.S. Government intended to effect a cultural exchange program (and the first to a Davidson professor) fulfills a long-time wish for an opportunity to teach in the Orient. The Cummings will fly directly to Bombay the first part of June and return by ship, stopping in Japan and at Thailand, where their son Bob is a Peace Corps teacher at Chulalongkorn University.

Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, professor of history, is taking a one-semester sabbatical next fall. He plans, during this time, to complete research for a book on the agrarian leadership of South Carolina in 1860. He and his family will live briefly in Charleston, S.C., and in the South Carolina low country.

John G. Holland, instructor in English, after teaching here during the summer term, will finish his PhD at the graduate school in Chapel Hill. His plans for the future, after completing his dissertation on George Eliot, are indefinite.

Charles E. Lloyd, assistant professor of English, will spend this summer studying at Oxford University on a scholarship from the English-Speaking Union. Then, this fall he plans to take a sabbatical year as a teaching fellow at U.N.C., completing his PhD.

Dr. Charles Ratliff, professor of economics, like Cumming, also heads for the Orient, as a faculty member at Forman Christian College, a liberal arts school of 1000 male students, at Lahore, West Pakistan. On a three-year special mission under the auspices of the Board of Missions of the Methodist Church, his main task will be to help establish honors and masters courses in economics. Leaving with his wife and three children in August, Ratliff will first spend six weeks at DePauw and Drew Universities in orientation on the country’s area and language before traveling overseas. Ratliff has been interested in such a position since 1948, when he approached the Methodist Board. Last year he was contacted because of his previous inquiry.

J. B. Stroud, instructor of mathematics, has been given a two-year leave-of-absence to complete his doctorate degree at the University of Virginia, under a Danforth Teachers’ Grant which he has won and a smaller grant from the Southern Presbyterian Church. Stroud presently plans to return to Davidson after his two years of study, during the first year of which he will complete his course work; and during the second, write his dissertation.

Four faculty members are leaving permanently for other positions.

Dr. Andrei Lobanov-Rostovsky, visiting professor of history, is returning to Northern Michigan University at Marquette, where he taught for 17 years before becoming Professor Emeritus. After retiring there, Lobanov came to Davidson two years ago on a Whitney Foundation Grant, then stayed on for an extra year. Now he will resume his position in the history department at Northern Michigan, teaching Russian, Far Eastern, and European History.

E. F. Miller, instructor in political science, is accepting a position in that department at Furman University in Greenville, S.C. He and his family will move to Furman after he finishes his doctorate in social philosophy at the University of Chicago this summer.

H. S. Wilcox, instructor in mathematics (coming to Davidson last fall on a one-year contract to replace Dr. Richard R. Bernard while the latter is at Dartmouth), next fall will be a graduate assistant at the University of South Carolina in Columbia. After two years of teaching one course while studying three toward his PhD he hopes to resume full-time teaching.

Dr. W. D. Wubben, associate professor of economics, will be a full professor next year at Charlotte College, a coeducational, public-supported junior college of 3000 students, which will be a full four-year school in two years. Wubben's position will be chairman of the Department of Economics and Business Administration.

Faculty Members Run For City Office

Three members of the Davidson faculty—Professors J. T. Kimbrough and J. G. Martin, and Grover C. Meetze—are candidates for seats on the Davidson Town Council in the May 7 election.

Kimbrough, the only incumbent of the three, is serving his third term on the council. He is a professor of mathematics. Martin, who is a professor of chemistry, and Meetze, supervisor of buildings and grounds for the college, are newcomers in the commissioners’ race.

All three candidates claim there is no issue in the election. Each said he felt that he was doing his part in helping out local government. As one candidate put it, “Anybody who feels that the power of the federal government is too great should take an active part in local government.”

A $400,000 bond issue will probably bring out even more voters. The bonds will be used to improve the town’s water, sewer, and electric facilities. Davidson College has agreed to assume $100,000 of the debt which will be incurred.

F. L. Jackson, a Davidson graduate, is assured of re-election as mayor, a post he has held for nine years. Jackson has no opposition.