FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Professional Tennis Tour To Visit Here

BY BILL PRIDGEN
Sports Editor

Tennis Coach Harry Fogleman has announced that the Pros, a professional touring tennis team, will visit Davidson on Monday, March 4, and hold an exhibition match in Johnston Gymnasium. This professional touring team is run under the direction of Tony Trabert, a close friend and former pupil of Fogleman’s. Trabert was the 1951 National Intercollegiate champion, and a former U.S. Singles and Wimbledon Champion.

As a matter of fact, the only reason that the tour will appear at Davidson is because of Fogleman’s contacts. Its appearance here should attract a great many people from a large area, since this is the only appearance that the touring pros will make in North or South Carolina. Trabert and his group will be coming in after a performance in Charleston, W. Va., and will fly to Nassau for a series in the Caribbean following their show here.

The group is composed of a well-known pros, who between them have won every top tournament in tennis. Ken Rosewall is a former Davis Cup player from Australia and is now recognized as the world professional champion. Rod Laver was at one time the world amateur champion, and completed the first big slam of the U.S., Australian, French, and Wimbledon Championships since 1936. Luis Ayala, Andres Gimeno, Barry McKay, and Earl Buchholz, Jr. make up the rest of the tour, and each has honors just as impressive as Rosewall and Laver.

The performance will start at 7:45 p.m., and will consist of three singles and one doubles match. They will be playing pro sets, which means that there are ten rather than six games in a set. Winners will get a larger share of the purse than the losers, so they will be out for blood. Fogleman announced that there would be limited seating and urged that students get advance tickets, which are now on sale at the athletic office. Tickets will be $2.50 for regular reserved seats and $1.50 for students and faculty. Members of the varsity and freshmen tennis teams will act as linemen and umpires.

WAKE FOREST TOUGHEST TEAM LEFT

A PROPHESY GONE SOUR

“His team had just been beaten by the Davidson freshmen, 78-53 Thursday night, but Wake Forest Frosh coach Jackie Murdock wasn’t impressed. “They won't be able to play Big Four ball,” said Murdock bluntly. “They've got one or two boys who could play in the Big Four — Hetzel (Fred) and Davidson (Don), but the team won't be in Wake Forest’s class next year.”

HIGHLIGHTS AND DELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

“We lose Chappell, but we'll still have Bob Wollard, Richard Carmichael and Frank Christie, and Richard Herring from this year’s freshman team will help a lot, too,” he pointed out. Davidson coach Lefty Driesell remarked, “I’ll have to thank Jackie for saying that. I'll remember and tell it to my boys next year before the Wake Forest game.”

THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER

The above column appeared in The Charlotte Observer when Davidson’s fabulous freshman team were still freshmen. Now they're sophomores, playing varsity ball, and it’s time to test Murdock’s prophesy. The ’Cats meet Wake in the Coliseum next Wednesday night to decide whether they are in the same “class” with Bones McKinney’s Deacons. We, however, think that this question has already been decided. The ’Cats have already proved what “class” of ball they can play, and it doesn’t take much effort to see that this is at least on a par with Deacon ball. Both teams have come face to face with third-ranked Duke twice this year. The ’Cats fought it out to the wire in the first contest, losing only after Don Davidson and Fred Hetzel fouled out; and in their second contest, they dropped the then second-ranked Blue Devils to their first loss of the season. Wake, meanwhile, has had difficulty staying on the same court with Duke in their two contests, dropping the second one by over thirty points. The events of this season have shown Murdock to be “all wet”. We have shown our ability to play big four ball, dropping Duke, the best of the big four, in one match.

Pikas, Three I-F basketball teams remained unbeaten through Wednesday of this week. The Independents, the Phi Delts, and the Phi Gams, all undefeated, loomed as the most likely contenders for this year’s crown.

Last Thursday the Independents lived up to their pre-season billing by handing the defending champion Kappa Sigs a 78-63 setback. All five Independent starters hit in double figures as Gary Martin hit 22 and Mark Dunn 19 to lead the way. Durwood Settles led the Sigs with 15. In other games last Thursday the Phi Delts conquered the Sig Eps, 58-40, behind Phil Squier’s 18 points; Paul Duvall pumped in 15 to pace the ATO’s over the KA’s, 46-41; and Arthur Clark’s 15 points led the Sigma Nus to an upset win over the Pikas, 33-31.

This past Monday night the Kappa Sigs got back on the winning side by trouncing the Sigma Nus, 70-36. Steve Heckard’s 14 and Bill Joyner's 12 led the way. Sophomores John Barrow and Phil Squier scored 13 points each as the Phi Delts clipped out the Sigma Chis, 36-28. The Betas thumped the SAE’s, 50-31, behind Tommy Hamilton's 11-point performance. The Phi Gams crushed the Sigma Nus, 65-34, as Fiji freshman Pack Hindsley scored 18.

On Wednesday the potent trio of George Sledge, Paul Duvall, and Bob King scored all but 8 of their team’s points (Sledge 22, Duvall 15, and King 13) as the ATO’s whipped the SAE’s, 58-47. B. J. Morgan and Toney McMillan led the SAE’s with 15 each. Earl Cole and Gary Martin scored 17 and 16, respectively, as the Independents downed the Pikas, 62-37, despite Keith Fraser’s 16-point effort. A fourth-quarter rally by the Pi Kapps fell short as the Betas eked out a 44-42 win. Freshman Sid Tompkins hit 24 for the winners, while Tuck Jones scored 22 for the losers. Jack Hollenbeck scored 11 points and paced the Sigma Chis over the KA's, 46-28. Charlie Marshall led the KA’s with 12.

Thinclads Travel To Big Five Meet

BY DENNY PHILLIPS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Five schools, Davidson, Duke, N.C. State, UNC, and Wake Forest will send their teams to the fourth annual “Big 5” Indoor Track Meet this Saturday at Chapel Hill.

Grapplers End Season Against Pfeiffer, Ga.

BY TOM WRIGHT
Sports Staff Writer

Tomorrow night the Davidson Wildcats will be in Statesboro, Georgia, for a game against Georgia Southern. Southern hasn't been very overpowering on the road this year, but, as Coach “Lefty” Driesell said, “They're really tough at home.” Driesell continued, “They came up here to play Belmont Abbey and got beat by about twenty points. Then Abbey went down to Statesboro and Georgia Southern won by seven.” “They'll be pointing for us, just like everybody else,” he added. Big guns for Georgia Southern are John Burton, a 5'11” guard, and Jim Seeley, a 6'4” center. Southern will be giving away a lot of height to the rangy Wildcat quintet, but could put up a stiff fight.

When the ‘Cats go against Wake Forest Wednesday night, they will be facing the number two team in the Atlantic Coast Conference. Going into last night's game with Maryland, the powerful Wake crew had earned a 9-2 conference record. The two losses were to first place Duke and to Clemson in a stunning one-point upset. The Wildcats will be hoping to avenge last year’s 96-62 loss to the Deacons in that season's opener. Davidson is now 15-6 overall and 7-3 in conference play. With only one conference tilt left, The Citadel on Feb. 23, this virtually assures the ‘Cats of a second-place finish in the Conference.

PLAYER G FGA FG PCT. RB Avg. PTS Avg.
Bill Jarman 20 239 115 48.1 175 8.7 312 15.60
Fred Hetzel 20 333 181 54.3 256 12.8 474 23.70
Terry Holland 20 166 81 48.7 155 7.7 227 11.30
Don Davidson 19 135 57 42.2 74 3.8 139 7.30
Barry Teague 18 87 32 36.7 51 2.8 87480 . md * Charlie Marcon 19 80 39 48.7 29 1.5 84 4.40 | q Vill lg } OF Sixteent} ‘ Win Haywood Evens 18 54 25 462 20 1.1 #63 3.50 Bill Beermann 16 76 31 407 26 16 72 «4.50 BY RICK SMITH Danny Carrell 7 9 4 444 7 6% 10 Sports Staff Writer Paul Briggs 5. Ww 440 9 38 10 200 Tommy White 6 10 2 200 4 22 6 1.00 non-conference tilt with Georgia Southern. The following Wednesday, the 20th, the Wildcats travel to the Charlotte Coliseum where they meet the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest. Georgia Southern is a relatively unknown team in this area. Last year Davidson trounced the Southerners 84-64. On Wednesday night the Wildcats had little trouble downing the Southerners 84-64. Next week the Davidson Wrestling Team finishes its season with meets against Pfeiffer College on Feb. 21. The Cats suffered their second defeat (the first to VMI) last Friday to N.C. State. Individual results were as follows: 123 lb. — Mike Bisard (D) decisioned Ray; 130 lb. — Tom Wright (D) pinned Jones (5:30); 137 lb. — Barnes (NCS) pinned Lanier Burnes (2:14); 147 lb. — Cook (NCS) decisioned Jack Altoff; 157 lb. — Joseph Jones (D) decisioned Athearn; 167 lb. — Huntley (NCS) decisioned Bill Pridgen; 177 lb. — Sawhill (NCS) decisioned Tom Day; Hvywt. — Russell Walls (D) tied Fountain. The final score was Davidson 13, N.C. State 16. The Matmen still have a chance to end with a record season. Star wrestlers Joe Parker and Dick Wray are definitely out for the season, but Bill Mills will return to the crucial 167 lb. slot against the University of Georgia. Coach Parker stated that “these will both be tough meets for us, but we should be able to win them.” The matmen have defeated Pfeiffer earlier in the season, and they downed the University of Georgia in their last year’s contest. Wildcat Marksmen Close With Furman BY FOREST ROLES Sports Staff Writer The Wildcat rifle squad carried a 5-4 record with it as it journeyed to Greenville, S.C., for a shootout with Furman’s marksmen. In a match with the Paladins earlier this season the ’Cat firers came out victorious 1365-1330. The Furman match will be the last regular season contest. The ‘Cats’ record fell last Friday when they were defeated by a strong team from Clemson. Although they were defeated, the ‘Cat firers compiled their highest match score of the season, 1387. Leading the team consistently this season has been senior Bill Blakley. His average for the season is 280 (of a possible 300). Sophomore Bill Mathews, improving his scores by twenty points since the beginning of the season, has been a high scorer in recent matches. Following the Furman match, the ‘Cats have a two-week layoff before traveling to Raleigh to participate in the North Carolina State Invitational Tournament on March 2. The ’Cats have won this tournament for the past three years. Following the N.C. Invitational, the team will fire in the Third Army ROTC match in Chapel Hill and the Southern Conference Tournament in Ft. Lee, Virginia. SCORING TWO POINTS against Richmond in one of his unique drives under the basket, Sophomore DON DAVIDSON is one of the reasons for the ‘Cats’ good season. He is also a big gap in the squad next year that will be difficult to fill. (Staff Photo by Joe McCutchen) Tom Wright Seeks Undefeated Season It wasn’t a very good night for the injury-riddled Wildcat wrestling squad, as they dropped their second decision of the year 16-13 to N.C. State last Friday, this was not due in any part to the efforts of Tom Wright, team captain, as he pinned his opponent in four minutes and forty-three seconds to chalk up his seventh straight victory. Wright, wrestling in the 130 lb. class instead of his customary 123 lbs. didn’t seem bothered by his heavier opponent Bob Jones, as he quickly scored a takedown on Jones in the first period and by the time that he flattened Jones on the mat for the fall, was leading in the scoring column 7-2. For this performance, Wright, a senior from Richmond, Va., has been named Wildcat of the Week. Perhaps it is really unfair to pick a single match to give him this honor for, since every match he has wrestled has been a top performance, scoring pins in three of his matches and decisions in the other four. What makes this all the more remarkable is that Wright had never even seen a wrestling match until he came to Davidson four years ago. Since then, however, through hard work and the guidance of Coach Charlie Parker, he has progressed to one of the better wrestlers that Parker has coached. “He's one of the hardest workers I’ve seen,” said Parker, “He never gives up.” Wright has only two matches to go to make it an undefeated season. The University of Georgia and Emory, neither a very strong team. If he is victorious in these two matches he will be the first undefeated wrestler at Davidson since 1959, when Westy Westervelt, an all-time great, finished his college career. In any case, Wright will leave a big gap in the squad next year that will be difficult to fill. BOOK REVIEW TIME Book reviews are not a common practice of this column, but we would like to make a few comments concerning Coach Harry Fogleman’s newly released booklet, Tennis For the Coach, Teacher, and Player. It does not take much effort to see that the book has been compiled by someone with a great deal of experience, and who “knows what he is talking about.” The meet promises to be an interesting duel between Duke and Carolina for first place, while the others fight it out for third. Coach Heath Whittle thinks Davidson could be the victor in the secondary battle if the boys run their best. Representing the ’Cats in the sprints will be Co-captain Bob Cordle, Alan Turner and Tom Watson, while Chester Davis, Tom Heffner, Sterling Martin, Ron Reese, and Denny Phillips will represent the thinclads in the distance events. Sophomore Alan Turner should turn in a good performance in the 60-yd. Dash. Two weeks ago Turner ran a 6.2 sec. 60-yds. at the VMI Winter Relays. The world record for this event is 6 seconds flat. Co-captain Martin is expected to do quite well in his specialty, the 2-mile run. He had a 10:26 clocking in the 2-mile two weeks ago. The meet is being held in UNC's “Tin Can” and will begin promptly at 2 p.m. We congratulate Fogleman on an excellent job, and also for bringing the Pro Tennis Tour to the Davidson campus, for which he was primarily responsible. An added recognition of Fogleman’s book was given by the U.S. Lawn Tennis Association when it adopted the book as an official publication and agreed to sell it through their channels. Certainly the work is a credit for Davidson College to be associated with, and we feel that Fogleman is to be complimented. Although the book basically deals with practice techniques and drills which would make it of primary use for coaches in training their teams, there is much of interest to the individual to improve his game. If anyone is interested in getting a copy, they are for sale in the Union. AN APOLOGY In our column last week we criticized the athletic department for its policy towards the swimming pool. We find now that we acted on some erroneous information. The pool was, in fact, open during specified hours that were posted during the exam period, also, the pool is still open at certain times in spite of swimming team practice. One of the major concerns of the athletic department, we understand, is the lack of student use when the pool is open. We are aware that acting on inaccurate information is a strong sign of poor journalism, and that there is really no excuse for such a mistake. We sincerely apologize to the athletic department, and we hope that we can avoid such errors in the future. MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. You saw it in The New Yorker. This is the classic Maincoat you need — smart and tailored-to-fit. In fashion, in quality, there is no other to match The London. THE LONDON by LONDON FOG Precious few things in life are as popular as London Fog’s Maincoats. Calibre Cloth (65% Dacron/35% Cotton), the following colors: $32.50 Rush Wilson Ltd.