*FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE*

**BY RICK LOWERY | Davidsonian Sports Editor**

For the seventh year in a row, the Phi Delts have captured the IMAC trophy, by a comfortable sixty-one point margin over the runner-up Sigma Chis. The Betas edged the Kappa Sigs for third place. The Delts, who retired their second consecutive trophy last year, won the swimming meet, finished second in the wrestling tournament and wound up with strong first division finishes in basketball, flickerball, softball, and track. The Sigma Chis took second in the track and swimming meets, while the Betas won the wrestling tournament and placed second in flickerball. The Kappa Sigs managed at least a tie for first in all three Tuesday night he called a team meeting, gave his ideas nowhere to qua wens other men a port ke and accepted others. He made un a list of the suggestions | a en if nats in the 400 height and Mills had to se nter the group thought helpful and feasible, and even a few! f oO fthall % andin © Chuek Rohr, former fifth on a number of mis m doubtful suggestions ———- vi caliente a patna I one “What we're trving to do.” said Smvré. “is to trv to} vito. wrote the ‘Londen: Davidso Pegg — : is change student view and overall view of Davidson base-; The Kappa Sigs behind the tight pitching of Durwood Settles routed the Phi Delts Tes in search of some talent. Fraser in the high jump. J 863 ball.” The team view has changed. ‘“‘We don’t go out there} Monday 18-4 to capture the Interfraternity softball championshi; ee _ a oe awarded : proportionateny expecting to lose anymore. Now we'd like to change} Monday's act pped up a White, and the Independents had the _ le: winning. several education in’ th eT ee port = iamea og | te te OO 100. being the everyone else's view. season that saw perhaps the .one of the longest hitters of the games holding the cham ng x eae penal didn't maximum totals possible by the “What we're really doing is putting ourselves on the] heaviest hitting ar t balanc- group in Gary Mart pion Kappa Sigs to one run a Segal answered the tice in) ay his form . he missed 62” | Winnit um at each level, Pen- spot. This almost has to be a long range plan, but the/ed league in many years, The The Sig Eps had Car i the Betas beat them 4-1, How- the paper five years ago, and sas tals Se ila deh Or h ilties were charged in the form team hopes it will bring some results in the very near} rea! strength in year’s former freshman b and ever, Clark was not unbeatabl { Saturday night he wrapped |) ny aes Fraser oh red the ) forfeitures future, But for it really to work, we've got to win. We| league was the over abundance the Pi Kaps had Er Spain- as the Phi Delts proved to the) up a tremendous college career co bi be pa + = ad 5 oi think we will.” ' of power-hitters. The Phi Delts hour who hit tw reruns. tune 14-8. Other outstandi: vith two first place shes. Ih ri siniead I ee “| aM uilure to officiate flicker Some things have happened already. If next year’s led the rest of the Jea with against the Kappa Ss hese pitchers were Durwood Settles. the hundred yard dash, Alan “2° et ame team proves itself, there is a definite possibility that, three such hitters--Tefry Hol- men were the especially hea Freddy Fowler (SAE) who was Turner was leading with about After the mec ee sitet tiie ‘tees dee — certain key games may be broadcast on a local radio sta-| land, Nat Harris and Bill Bank- hitters in the league. They were the win: pitcher against both ten yards to go when Segal pul Furman, Coach Whittle had eae eee — tion. Plans for a varsity-alumni game are in the making,} head: In the course of the year not the only homerun hitters the Phi Delts and Kappa § ed ahead to win by two or three Nothing oe ange Mesh - ath- | were helped considerably by the and so are farther publicity possibilities of a smaller | these three ballplayers hit some but they hit mor than and Jimmy Wilkinson of the In inches, Turner equalled: his rg sa 18 pointe was fact ‘that: all-rees mai nature. balls that many teams think are anyone else dependents best time in the event with 9.8 e . —" 3 ; — : pica 7 m3 se mum number of ent points Coach Stevens is now investigating a night game} still rolling. And -the: wert This year's pitching was no Some of this -season’s act econds Serenwe. eet ih severd: ‘years in all sports with North Carolina at Gastonia. Plans for redoing the in- | many other outstanding. power- ticeably thin. Even those pit- deserves at least passing com The two sprinters met again | emer AANARAKAAABRARAARRARADRARNADABE, field have been obtained from the Charlotte Hornets. A! hitters in the league. The ATO’s chers acelaimed to be the tops ment. Early in the season Steve the 220-yard: dash. This time |{ ‘IMAC TROPHY STANDINGS permanent fence has been priced as has the pitching! boasted two—Spud Stewart and in the league had their ups and Clark threw perhaps the out-| Turner dropped ‘to | third, as Phi Delta Theta 789 machine | Paul Duvall. The KA's had Bill downs. Steve Clark of the Betas standir ame of the season.) Segal again took first place.|{ Sigma Chi 728 Coach Stevens prefers not to ask for scholarships! Jarman. ‘The Pikas, ‘Tommy the outstanding pitcher when with the help of © Hant Sterling | Martin, Davidson's 7: Beta Theta Pi 702 now, “Certainly I'd like a couple,” he said. “Of course the . Ackerman’s homerui bea tance (sian. in -ihens Kappa Sigma 691 | best hope of getting good baseball players to come to the Kappa Sigs 4-1 - hy hal race-in typ Sigma Alpha Epsilon 619 Davidson is having..a strongsuccessful program. But the highest score was 15-0712 Alpha Tau Omega 611. Even then, it is only a matter of luck when a top-flight Athletic Awards Assembly for the season took place. The turnout was good; Phi Gamma Delta 56 pitcher or catcher, or even a good power hitter comes to Phi Delts: hammers KA and conference Independents 525 a school that can offer him no scholarship.” WN 44-12. That was a 44-run record. Unfortunately, there Kappa Alpha 507 “We are lucky now to have very good pitching, and innings. An interesting were three other men who were Sigma Phi Epsilon 458 our catching is coming along. But there can be no assurance that this will remain to be so. You win a lot of third inning when 27 Phi Delts also breaking the record time Pi Kappa Alpha 443 games with smart, aggressive baseball, but it never hurts BY CARLTON COLE batted and John Cameron made in the pole vault. Billy Mills Pi Kappa Phi 407 to have top talent.” all three outs. Sigma Nu 302 “It is this kind of aggressive baseball to win on two days later the heavy hit the schedule I'm working up next year. This is the first Athletic awards this year were presented at chapel ting Delts scored 24 runs but year I've had enough strong pitching to accept an invitation yesterday, instead of at the usual athletic banquet lost as the SAE’s scored 27 runs to Rollins College’s annual spring baseball tournament. The tournament has Duke, Rollins, and Colby College of Maine. In the tournament, each team plays every awards included were for Hetzel as captain of the All in a real battle. And then there was the final other one twice, six games in six days. With the tournament; West Virginia, V.P.I., Georgia Southern, and maybe cross country and track, foot Southern Team. game which was to decide the North Carolina, we're going to have a hell of a schedule.” ball, soccer, basketball, swim Bill Jarman has been a captain championship. For three innings, it was a tight game, but “We're concerned about our program,” said a member ming, wrestling, tennis, baseball, for four years, and both he and Hetzel made the All- in the fourth, the Kappa Sigs of the team, “and I think that we have thought of some constructive ideas for next season and even for a few years from now. And from the experience we have had with talking with various members of the athletic staff and publicity department, I think they feel they are constructive ideas too. There is no doubt in my mind that they can help us play much better baseball.

Coach A. H. Whittle presented the award for Most Outstanding Athlete on the Cross Country team to senior Sterling Martin. For the third year in a row, Martin was selected as a member of the All-Southern Conference Cross Country Team. Whittle gave the Merchant Award for high point man of the season on the track team to sophomore Allen Turner. Keith Fraser received the Fetzer Award for Excellence in Track, given this year for the first time. It is given in honor of Coach Bob Fetzer and his brother.

Senior Tom Tuttle received the baseball award, made by Coach Tom Stevens, while Coach Tom Scott presented the Most Valuable Player in golf to Mims Rogers. Coach Charlie Parker presented the Most Valuable Wrestler Award to senior Tom Wright. Captain Charles C. Patton announced that the top man on the rifle team this year was Bill Blakely. Billy Mills, a junior, was named as captain of both track and wrestling teams for next year.

Coach Harry Fogleman awarded the plaques for Most Valuable Player in soccer to Bob Meldrum, a senior, and Most Valuable Player in tennis to Captain Bob Austell, also a senior. Coach Dwight Shoe made the swimming award for Most Outstanding Swimmer to senior Victor Mebane, also high point man on the team this year.

Coach Bill Dole presented the Armfield Blocking Trophy to senior Mike Owen and the King Academic Award to the football player with the highest scholastic average to Rob Camilla. A new football trophy this year is the Pate Award, made by Bob Cordle, president of the D-Club. He also presented Dr. Tom Scott with the D-Club Award for outstanding leadership.

Coach C. G. “Lefty” Driesell made the Belk Award for the Most Valuable Player on the basketball team for the year to sophomore Fred Hetzel. He also made awards of the Dr. McLeod Trophy for the Best Defensive Player to Barry Teague and the award for the Best Free Throw Percentage to senior Haywood Evans, for the second time in the past three years. Max Muhleman of the Charlotte News announced the selection of Driesell as Southern Conference Coach of the Year.

Perhaps this isn’t the creativity that everyone has been talking about the past two weeks, but these people want to accomplish something and they are doing something about it. Monday, the team will submit a detailed plan for the improvements which they think should be made in the baseball program over a five-year period to President Martin. The baseball team has made some good points and some reasonable ones. They have shown a willingness to work to obtain these points. I only hope that the College and the baseball team can reach some kind of practical agreement about their future plans so that the baseball team’s new-found enthusiasm will neither wither away nor run amuck and die. Good Luck.

CONGRATULATIONS...

On another part of this page are the names of those men who were rewarded at Thursday’s athletic awards assembly. Read them. These are the men who were most outstanding in their sport at Davidson. They deserve a scanning.

The following are my own personal selections for MY own personal awards. JOHN ROGERS . . . OUTSTANDING INTERFRATERNITY ATHLETE. STEVE CLARK . . . (A Friend not withstanding) . . . OUTSTANDING NON-PARTICIPANT CONTRIBUTOR. BILL JARMAN . . . OUTSTANDING SENIOR ATHLETE. FRED HETZEL . . . OUTSTANDING DAVIDSON ATHLETE.

SOFTBALL FINAL STANDINGS
Kappa Sigma 10-2
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 9-3
Independents 9-3
Pi Kappa Phi 8-4
Phi Delta Theta 8-4
Phi Gamma Delta 7-5
Beta Theta Pi 7-5
Alpha Tau Omega 6-6
Sigma Chi 6-6
Sigma Phi Epsilon 4-8
Pi Kappa Phi 2-10
Kappa Alpha 1-10
Sigma Nu 1-11

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

Kick up your heels in the new Adler Shape-Up cotton sock. Nothing gets it down. The indomitable Shape-Up leg stays up and up and up in plain white, white with tennis stripes, or solid colors. No matter how much you whoop it up. In the air, her Shapette, 69¢, his Shape-Up, 85¢. THE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI
DANIA RESTAURANT
HIGHWAY 29
CONCORD, N. C.
WEDNESDAY NIGHTS: Golden Fried Chicken (2) $1.50
FRIDAY NIGHTS: “All the Fish You Can Eat” $1.50
SAT. NIGHTS: Buffet Supper American-Continental Foods 6:00 - 9:00 P.M.
6 AM.-9 P.M.

Merchandise Reduced 20% and More
Bush Wilson Ltd.