PAGE FOUR

Gorson’s Speech In Assembly: Liberalism Versus Conservatism

He was a liberal speaking at a conservative school of the South. So he paid the price for his Monday assembly talk. But when Arthur Gorson, chairman of the Campus Division of Americans for Democratic Action, finally left the Davidson campus that afternoon, he had dropped a few seeds of speculation among those students who occasionally take a break from memorizing to indulge in a little contemplation about the world they are living in.

Gorson was not beautiful, but he attracted as many whistles as this month’s Playboy playmate. He even got a few sneezes (but no coughs). Yet all of this ammunition from the underground who try to fight such liberal Davidson trends as required assemblies could not keep Gorson from making some telling observations about mythical American ideas. (Or should the word “legendary” be used? Letters to the editor are appreciated for comment on the choice of words.)

The myth that there is a consensus in this country was the first one he exploded. He then rapidly moved to the myth that negotiators at Geneva are really trying to disarm. He pointed out clearly and steely the fact that this country cannot really afford to disarm at the present time since our economy is geared to a great extent to the arms race. “I would say that we should spend much more time discussing the problems of peace and what we'll do about it,” he commented.

He then tried to explode the myth that this country had democratic representation. He contended that we do not, since certain key men in the House Rules Committee and windy-mouthed orators from the Senate could impose the will of the minority on the majority by keeping legislation from a vote. All of these points and myths brought out are well worth some reflection by all citizens. Undoubtedly the many conservatives who followed Gorson to the coffee pot after the period set aside for the faith and inspiration of the student body realized this.

ARTHUR GORSON speaks to Student Body President Danny Carrell after his assembly talk last Monday. Gorson, national chairman of Campus ADA, spoke liberally on almost all contemporary controversial topics. [Staff Photo by McCutcheon]

Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

DANIA RESTAURANT
HIGHWAY 29 CONCORD, N. C.
WEDNESDAY NIGHTS: Golden Fried Chicken $1.50
FRIDAY NIGHTS: “All the Fish You Can Eat” $1.50
SAT. NIGHTS: Buffet Supper American-Continental Foods 6:00 - 9:00 P.M. $2.50
Open 6 A.M.-9 P.M. Closed Mondays

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Johnston
F. W. Polley
Camping Laboratory
Ratliff
Gourley
Lammers
Rhodes
Hight
McGeachy
Schenck
Houchens
Minter
Threlkeld
Hunt
Pierce
Willcox
Jackson
Plott
Wruck

PHI DELTA THETA
President: Will Wellford
Vice-pres: Kenny Painter
Secretary: George Auman
Treasurer: Paul Stotts

PHI GAMMA DELTA
President: Jerry Trammell
Vice-pres: none elected
Secretary: Bob Wachuk
Treasurer: Rick Brand

PI KAPPA ALPHA
President: J. D. Whitehead
Vice-pres: Wayne Smithers
Secretary: Conrad Martin
Treasurer: Bill Buchanan

PI KAPPA PHI
Archon: Erwin Spainhour
Vice pres: none elected
Treasurer: Bob Reynolds
Secretary: Decker Faw

SIGMA NU
Commander: Bill Lynn
Lt. Commander: Sam Childress
Recorder: John Ralston
Treasurer: Bob Miller

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
President: Jim Tanner
Vice-pres: Fred Sackett
Comptroller: Joe McCormack
Historian: Bob Strauser

The ATO’s, SAE's and Sx's have not yet elected officers.

Garland Keever Wins Army Citation

The citation reads as follows:
"For outstanding performance of duty from 1 November 1961 to 31 October 1962. During this period Mr. Keever performed assigned duties in a highly superior manner and exceeded the normal standards established for his position. His outstanding performance of duty reflects great credit to himself and the United States Army Corps."
Signed: Ethan A. Chapman, Major General, USA, Commanding.

A new magazine, Reject, formed to create what the editors term a “void” in the literary field, is now compiling experimental stories, novels, vignettes, plays, poetry, essays, and criticisms for a first issue. The magazine is aimed par-Garland L. Keever, chief records clerk for the Davidson College ROTC Department, has been awarded the Department of the Army Certificate for Outstanding Performance Rating by President D. Grier Martin.

Keever, a native of Statesville, has continued to receive this award each year since joining the civil service in 1955. Major duties in the department include the maintenance of personnel records for over 600 ROTC cadets, including pay records of approximately 300 advanced students.

Guess who offered me an executive position with a leading organization, where I'll get good pay, further my education, and enjoy world travel? My uncle. In this case, nepotism’s a pretty good idea. But of course, you've got to measure up to get it. To be admitted to Air Force Officer Training School, you've got to be a good student with skills or aptitudes we can use. Air Force OTS is an intensive three-month course leading to a commission as a second lieutenant. As an Air Force officer, you'll be a leader on the Aerospace Team—and be a part of a vital aspect of our defense effort.

Here’s a chance for ambitious college men and women to assume great responsibility. It's a fine opportunity to serve your country while you get a flying head start on the technology of the future. We welcome your application for OTS now—but this program may not be open next year. If you're interested, get full information about Air Force OTS from your local Air Force recruiter.

FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1963

SPACE AND SPACE FORMS are the main concern of Frank Engle in his art, as he works toward a “final form” even as a philosopher seeks the truth. Standing next to several of his own works currently on display in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center, Engle explains his ideas of artistry and creation. Engle, associate professor of art at the University of Alabama, was on campus April 8 and 9 in conjunction with the Davidson Fine Arts Festival held this week. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Editor Stitt Names Newspaper Staff

David Stitt, new DAVIDSONIAN editor, has announced his selection of the paper's new staff. Bill Pridgen, former sports editor; Bill Ruth, former assistant editor; and Jeff Wampler, former managing editor, have moved up to associate editorships. Charlie Ramberg and Rick von Unwerth will serve as new assistant editors. Tom Loflin will retain his post as feature editor, and Jimmy Downey is now news editor. Rick Lowery, sports editor; Tuck Jones, assistant sports editor; and John Todd, assignments editor are newcomers to the staff. Charlie Dibble and Dave Pusey will handle layout as managing editors. Rick Finch is business manager, and Charlie Smith will serve as his assistant. Also holding positions in the business department are Irvine Welling, advertising manager, and Malcolm Lane, circulation manager.

This week's edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN was put out entirely by the new staff.

RENT NEW CARS AND

Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II, and Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Rent a car the BUDGET Way, less per mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you need. We feature Free Hotel and Airport Pickup and Delivery Service. 376-0213 301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf,” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

HOW TO GET EDUCATED ALTHOUGH ATTENDING COLLEGE

In your quest for a college degree, are you becoming a narrow specialist, or are you being educated in the broad, classical sense of the word? This question is being asked today by many serious observers—including my barber, my roofer, and my little dog Spot—and it would be well to seek an answer. Are we becoming experts only in the confined area of our majors, or does our knowledge range far and wide? Do we, for example, know who fought in the Battle of Jenkins’ Ear, or Kant's epistemology, or Planck's constant, or Valsalva’s maneuver, or what Wordsworth was doing ten miles above Tintern Abbey?

If we do not, we are turning, alas, into specialists. How then can we broaden our vistas, lengthen our horizons—become, in short, educated?

Well sir, the first thing we must do is throw away our curricula. Tomorrow, instead of going to the same old classes, let us try something new. Let us not think of college as a rigid discipline, but as a kind of vast academic smorgasbord, with all kinds of tempting intellectual tidbits to savor. Let's start sampling tomorrow.

We will begin the day with a stimulating seminar in Hittite artifacts. Then we will go over to marine biology and spend a happy hour with the sea slugs. Then we will open our pores by drilling a spell with the ROTC. Then we'll go over to journalism and tear out the front page. Then we'll go to the medical school and autograph some casts. Then we'll go to home economics and have lunch.

And between classes we'll smoke Marlboro Cigarettes. This, let me emphasize, is not an added fillip to the broadening of our education. This is essential. To learn to live fully and well is an important part of education, and Marlboros are an important part of living fully and well. What a sense of completeness you will get from Marlboro’s fine tobaccos, from Marlboro's pure filter! What flavor Marlboro delivers! Through that immaculate filter comes flavor in full measure, flavor without stint or compromise, flavor that wrinkled care derides, flavor holding both its sides. This triumph of the tobacconist's art comes to you in soft pack or Flip Top box and can be lighted with match, lighter, candle, Welsbach mantle, or by rubbing two small Indians together.

When we have embarked on this new regimen—or, more accurately, lack of regimen—we will soon be cultured as all get out. When strangers accost us on the street and say, “What was Wordsworth doing ten miles above Tintern Abbey, hey?” we will no longer slink away in silent abashment. We will reply loud and clear: “Any truly educated person knows, Wordsworth, Shelley, and Keats used to go to the Widdicombe Fair every year for the poetry writing contests and three-legged races, both of which they enjoyed lyrically. Well sir, imagine their chagrin when they arrived at the Fair in 1776 and learned that Oliver Cromwell, uneasy because Guy Fawkes had just invented the spinning jenny, had canceled all public gatherings, including the Widdicombe Fair and Liverpool. Shelley was so upset that he drowned himself in a butt of malmsey. Keats went to London and became Charlotte Bronte. Wordsworth ran blindly into the forest until he collapsed in a heap ten miles above Tintern Abbey. There he lay for several years, sobbing and kicking his little fat legs. At length, peace returned to him. He looked around, noted the beauty of the forest, and was so moved that he wrote Joyce Kilmer's immortal Trees... And that, smart-apple, is what Wordsworth was doing ten miles above Tintern Abbey.”

Poets and peasants, students and teachers, ladies and gentlemen—all know you get a lot to like in a Marlboro—available wherever cigarettes are sold in all 50 States.