Che Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

PHI DELTS WIN IMAC TROPHY (See Page Three)

VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1962 NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

The YMCA will initiate a Great Issues Program and a series of forums in addition to expanding other programs in
an ambitious program for next year. Chairman Walter MacDonald and his Great Issues Committee have proposed two main topics, “The
Emerging Nations” and “The Problems of a Changing South,” to be discussed during the first and second semesters respectively. Each
of these main topics has been broken down into smaller sub-divisions, which will be presented bi-weekly.

The Great Issues Program, termed a “real advance” by YMCA President Joe Howell, will feature one issue each semester to
be discussed among students and faculty. Utilizing speakers, printed materials, and audio-visual aids, the program of seven meetings per semester
will be entirely voluntary in attendance. Visiting lecturers on great issues will be, for the most part, men and women
able to speak upon particular topics from practical experience. They will be drawn from the ranks of journalists, businessmen, politicians,
labor leaders, scientists, artists, and philosophers.

The lectures and discussions will be on a bi-weekly basis. Lectures or movies pertaining to the subject will be held
on Thursday nights for about an hour. Following these will be informal discussions during the free chapel periods on Fridays.
The lecture-discussion method permits the speaker to deal with the subject informally, and the delayed discussion permits informal discussions among
the students and encourages stimulating questions.

The Great Issues Course has been a required program for all seniors at Dartmouth College in New Hampshire since 1947.
Their course, inaugurated by Dartmouth President John Sloan Dickey, is based on a series of lectures given weekly through the
college year by visiting speakers. The issues discussed may vary from national problems to international relations or may concern questions
of cultural, moral, or religious values.

AMBITIOUS PLANS BY BRITT SNIDER Davidsonian Staff Writer

The topics and speakers will be chosen by a Great Issues Committee, headed by junior Walter MacDonald, which also includes
John Pruitt, Bob Ivey, George Williams, Neal Bushoven, Charles Dibble, Reese Coppage, Everett Huggins, Howell, and Student Council President John
Spratt. The financial support of the Great Issues Program will be by the YMCA and the administration. In order to
alleviate the costs of various speakers and films, MacDonald has contacted 33 schools in this area in an effort to
see if they would consider sharing both the benefits and expenses of the program.

The second major part of the YMCA’s program for next year, the series of forums, developed by the forum committee,
headed by Bill Ferris and Jay Federman, will consist of three main subjects. In September the forum topic will be
the students’ attitude toward sex; in October, modern theology; and following, a series of forums dealing with the challenges to
the Christian faith. The format of these forums will be a speech, an assembly, and in the evenings, a “dialogue”
between the visiting speaker and two faculty members.

In addition to these programs, the YMCA will also sponsor an international affairs program headed by Tarby Bryant, and a
spiritual life program under the direction of Hank Ackerman. The YMCA will also expand the annual Book-of-the-Year program into two
Book-of-the-Semester programs. Suggestions for authors and books for discussion may be made to the members or in the YMCA office
in the Union.

Groups Complete Election Of Officers

Completing elections for next year's officers were the literary societies, Alpha Tau Omega, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Sigma Chi, the
Methodist Student Fellowship, and the Westminster Fellowship. President of Sigma Chi is Lyman Davey; vice-president is Joel Grisett; secretary, Woody
Danenhower; and treasurer, John Pruitt. Sigma Alpha Epsilon elected the following officers: Lewis Norman (president), Bill Alexander (vice-president), Rudert (secretary),
and Schoen (treasurer). President of Alpha Tau Omega is Tim Kimrey; vice-president, Phil Alexander; secretary, Jim Graves; and treasurer, Everett
Huggins. Charlie Dibble will serve as president of the Philanthropic Literary Society; Jim Stringfield (vice-president), Everett Rule (secretary), and Sam
Rose (treasurer). President of the Eumenean Literary Society is Steve Gramley; the vice-president, Duncan Newcomer; secretary and parliamentarian, Bill Garrard;
and treasurer, Bill Jacobs. Gramley will also serve as president of the Methodist Student Fellowship. Other officers are Wesley Truscott
(vice-president) and Steve Woody (secretary-treasurer).

Embry Announces Fulbright Fellowships

Dr. J. O. Embry, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Study, has announced the opening of competition for Fulbright Scholarships
for the academic year of 1964-65. These graduate fellowships will be available, under the Fulbright-Hays Act of 1961, to qualified
American graduate students for study or research in any of 49 countries. Students applying for these fellowships should be U.
S. citizens, have a bachelor's degree or its equivalent before the beginning date of the grant, and be sufficiently proficient
in the native language to carry out the proposed study and to communicate with the people of the host country.
Competition for the 1964-65 academic year opened May 1, 1963. Requests for application forms must be postmarked before Oct. 15.
Applications must be submitted by Nov. 1, 1963. Any student interested in these fellowships should consult Embry. At present, Davidson
has two Fulbright Scholars.

Board Grants Request Made By Goodykoontz

The Board of Trustees approved yesterday the proposal of its Education Committee that Dr. Goodykoontz be reinstated to the faculty
upon a recommendation of Dean Frontis W. Johnston. The Education Committee, acting upon a recommendation of Dean Johnston, suggested that
Goodykoontz’s resignation from the college on April 30, which Dean of Faculty Johnston had accepted as effective immediately the next
day, be reconsidered. Goodykoontz consulted for a total of more than three hours with the four-man Education Committee Wednesday night
and twice yesterday. He reported that the committee questioned him on everything from the drama program of the past year
to his resignation from the faculty. The reinstatement came as a result of these extensive meetings. The statement prepared by
the committee (printed above) states that the primary reason for Goodykoontz's reinstatement is the attitude he showed toward the whole
affair. Both Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of the Board of Trustees and an ex-officio member of the Education Committee,
and Dr. W. W. Pierson, chairman of the committee, stated that the approval of the reinstatement was unanimous. Dean Johnston
had full authority in the matter. Richards further stated that after the April 22 meeting of the Education Committee (referred
to in the statement), the committee had been very pleased with the concern and interest of his case. “What we
(the committee) did was to tell Dean Johnston that he could take what steps he thought necessary in the Goodykoontz
affair.”

AFTER 17 YEARS Past President Retires BY GREG GOVAN Davidsonian Feature Writer

Three years ago Quips and Cranks called him in its dedication “scholar, teacher, friend, and Christian gentleman.” After 45 years
of college teaching, Clarence John Pietenpol retires this year. In 1918 he was hired as a full-time instructor at the
University of Pittsburgh, although only an undergraduate junior. That was the beginning, and after graduation in 1919, he went on
to a doctorate in physics. And it was a beginning for physics, also. Today, 95 percent of all the world’s
physicists are still alive; Pietenpol was close to the beginning of this sudden late blooming of a plant with its
roots in antiquity. He talks with fondness of founding the physics department at Long Island University, wall, brick, and equipment.
He left the lab for the office of dean of faculty at Washington and Jefferson, and came to Davidson in
1946 in that capacity. He was acting president of the college until the appointment of D. Grier Martin. At that
time he left the administration to devote full time to teaching. As to Davidson, Pietenpol says that “my only regret
is that I didn't come sooner.” He talks about the pedestal upon which the college was placed by the regional
educators, a pedestal he had some reservations about accepting, and how it was always a good feeling to hear someone
reply, “Oh yes, Davidson.” But while the pedestal may be a bit too high,Pietenpol does recognize, and proudly so, the
position of the school. He attributes its place to the high academic standards, with the attendant statement-hope that they are
still high. “We can afford to be more selective; nearly everyone can.” There have been changes in 17 years, and
issues, and issues without changes. But Pietenpol, the gentle legionnaire, has seen the change not in particular action by the
faculty, students, or the trustees. They are to him the changes of attitude and general some tenor; he has held
before them the dignity of a gentleman. Thomas Wolfe said where men speak, the past was dead: to our hands
a handful of dry dust and ashes. But some do not speak in words; somewhere in the dust and ashes
is a graying flattop and 45 years. For them, the changes poured in.

Students studying in Europe under this program include Joe Robinson, Phi Delt, who is studying in Germany, and Andy Vance,
Sigma Nu, who is studying in France. The selection of recipients for Fulbright awards for 1963-64 has not yet been
announced. According to Embry, it is probable that at least one Davidson student will be selected for one of these
awards this year. Three Davidson students plan to spend their junior year in study abroad. These are Howard Cornelson, who
will study in Germany, Bob Chumbley, who will study in France, and Bill Trotter, who will study in Finland.

Faculty Announces ‘64 Committeemen

The faculty announced new members of its standing committees at its meeting on May 7. Next year, Dr. H. A.
Bryan, associate professor of chemistry, will serve on the Admissions Committee. The new member of the Curriculum Committee is Dr.
Richard R. Bernard, professor of mathematics. Dr. Paul A. Marrotte, associate professor of history, is the new member of the
Faculty Athletic Committee. Dr. Grier Williams of the Music Department will serve on the Executive Committee.

Dr. A. Beaty, professor of German, has announced his retirement as secretary of the faculty after 26 years of serving
in this capacity. The new appointee to serve in Beaty’s absence is Dr. J. A. McGeachy, Jr., professor of history.

The 1963 Quips and Cranks will be distributed to seniors tonight from 7-9 p.m. in Chambers banquet hall. Other members
of the student body may pick up their annuals at the same location Monday night from 7-10 p.m.

Biology Will Offer Seminar Courses

Davidson's biology department will offer two new courses in 1963-64. Biology 73, 74 (Seminar) will be open to juniors and
seniors, who will be given one hour credit per semester. The course will consist of group studies and discussions of
selected areas of biological research. Biology 83, 84 (Advanced Topics in Biology) will be open to seniors with permission of
the department. The whole staff will guide students in their investigative work on a semi-independent level. A student must present
a study problem, or ask to be assigned a problem, before his credit is determined (from one to four hours
depending on degree of difficulty, library research involved, etc.). Dr. Tom Dagay of the department said, “A problem may have
to do with the study of field samples, perhaps from Lake Norman, or with research performed with laboratory instruments.”

In other action by the Board, professors and other college members received a 5 percent pay raise, but the controversial
faculty oath issue was deferred until the first meeting after the end of the semester. The Education Committee of the
Trustees reaffirms that Dean Johnston acted with its authority and approval in accepting Professor Goodykoontz’s resignation as immediately effective. Professor
Goodykoontz, on his own request, appeared before the Education Committee and asked that the effective date of his resignation be
made at the end of the school year. Professor Goodykoontz stated that he felt that errors of judgment on both
sides had contributed to the unfortunate controversy and obscured the constructive purpose of his efforts. He further stated that he
regretted the intemperate tone of some of his communications and exhibits. While the committee does not concur in the judgment
that both sides were in error, Dr. Goodykoontz’s attitude seemed so changed and his regret so sincere that the committee
agreed to accept Dean Johnston's recommendation that the effective date of Professor Goodykoontz’s resignation be changed to June 3, 1963,
with his assurance that during this period his actions would be in harmony with the spirit manifested in the conference
with the committee.

When questioned about the delegation of authority to Johnston, Richards said that the Executive Committee was not consulted. Article II,
Section 14 of the By-Laws to the Charter of Davidson College states, “With the approval of the Executive Committee, each
of the standing committees is authorized to delegate any of its duties or powers to individuals named by it.” But
Richards added, “I think that you will find that the Board of Trustees will stand behind us, and we will
let it rest there.” Goodykoontz, although he would have apparently been granted the right to speak before the entire Board,
did not talk to any group other than the Education Committee yesterday. Hall said, “Dr. Goodykoontz felt that it wasn’t
especially necessary.” Goodykoontz told THE DAVIDSONIAN that he did not feel that he would have had ample time to tell
the Board the whole story of his complicated situation and that he had decided to issue a statement instead to
the trustees. When queried about the decision of the Education Committee on his reinstatement, a usually talkative Goodykoontz smiled. “For
once, I have no comment. I’m completely satisfied.” He said that he had not decided what to do after leaving
Davidson.

Richards said of the faculty pay boosts, “We feel that there is a need to go beyond this amount, but
we feel that it is a step in the right direction.” A full professor will be able to draw between
$8,500 and $13,500. The present scale for a full professor is between $8,000 and $12,700. The trustees’ president explained the
reason the oath question was not considered by the Board: “The Education Committee was not prepared to report today on
its study of the oath, and the matter was deferred until the next meeting of the trustees.”

Nine Join Faculty Ranks; Woman Will Teach Biology

Nine new members, including one woman, have been appointed to the Davidson College faculty. Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, dean of
the faculty, made the announcement following the meeting of the college trustees yesterday at which the appointments of the nine
were approved. The second woman on the faculty in Davidson's history is to be Miss Ann Shannon Cumming, holder of
the BS degree from Agnes Scott College and the MA degree from Washington University, who has been appointed instructor in
biology. Miss Cumming is from Nashville, Tenn. and is presently in graduate study at Washington University. The only other woman
ever to serve on the Davidson College faculty was Mrs. Carolyn MacBrayer of Mooresville, who taught psychology at Davidson periodically
from 1956-59.

Other new professors appointed yesterday include: Wilmer Hayden Welsh, graduate of Johns Hopkins University and holder of the Master of
Music degree from Peabody Conservatory of Music, appointed associate professor of music. Welsh is an organist who has taught at
Hood College, Md., and Winthrop College, S.C. Rupert T. Barber, Jr., who holds the BS and MA degrees from Louisiana
State University, appointed assistant professor of speech and drama. Barber has completed his course work for the PhD degree and
expects to attain the degree next year. As drama professor, Barber will undertake the supervision of the college’s theater productions
next year. James Applewhite, who holds the BA degree from Amherst, has been appointed instructor in French. Applewhite has done
graduate work at Tulane under a National Defense Education Act Fellowship and is presently concluding his work for the PhD
degree on a Fulbright Scholarship in France. Richard E. Gift, BA (Vanderbilt), MA (Emory), and soon to receive the PhD
from Duke, has been appointed instructor in economics. Mays L. Swicerd, holder of the BS degree from King College and
the MA degree from the University of North Carolina, has been appointed instructor in physics. Moreland Hogan, holder of the
AB degree from William Marsh Rice University and the MA degree from Harvard University, appointed instructor in English. Hogan is
working toward the PhD degree in English at the University of North Carolina and is at present an editorial assistant
of the University of North Carolina Press. Norman M. Johnson, holder of the BS degree from Davidson, was appointed instructor
in history. Scott W. Mansour, holder of the BS and MA degrees from the University of Michigan, appointed instructor in
mathematics. Mansour has taught for the past several years at West Virginia Tech. The promotion of Dr. Joe O. Embry,
AB (Drury College), MA (State University of Iowa), and PhD (University of Minnesota) from associate professor of French to the
rank of full professor.
