PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1963

INDUSTRY COMES to Davidson in the form of a Carolox plant on Griffith Road to Highway 21. Taxes and labor
supply were prime factors in the company’s decision to locate here in October 1961. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

No Big Foreign Jobs Open
It's Only A Tiny

BY JIMMY DOWNEY
Davidsonian News Editor

About a half mile down Griffith Road, which leads out of the sleepy town of Davidson to bustling Highway 21,
stands a lonesome brick building in the middle of nowhere. Only a solitary sign reading CAROLOX identifies the squat structure,
which from the outside appears to be some sort of manufacturing plant.

Outside the foyer, large plate glasses open up for viewing the interior of a small, neatly arranged, and well-organized office.
Carolox is a builder of electrical power supplies, manufacturing precision dies for industry. This assembly puts together Electrical Discharge Machining
(EDM), complex electrical circuits.

The owner company, Elox Corp., is the world's largest builder of EDM systems. Carolox sought an area with a willing
labor supply, reasonable taxes, and sound political leadership to establish its branch. Thus, it came to choose 10 acres in
northern Mecklenburg County.

The firm can produce EDMs for intricate tasks ranging from manufacturing rocket parts to producing automobile steering wheel dies. It
operates in a 10,000 square foot building, manufacturing dies for cast iron, extrusion dies for die casting, and plastic mold
dies.

COMMENCEMENT 1963
Sat., June 1, 4 p.m. — ROTC Commissioning, Chambers lawn
8 p.m. — Male Chorus Concert, Hodson Hall
9 p.m. — Reception, Pres. D. Grier Martin’s home, for seniors and their families
Sun., June 2, 11 a.m. — Baccalaureate Service, Davidson Presbyterian Church
1 p.m. — Luncheon, Chambers Dining Hall
3:45 p.m. — Academic Processional
4 p.m. — Graduation, Chambers lawn

Davidson Alumnus
Frederick C. Lane, a 1960 graduate cum laude from Davidson, was recently honored at Bowman Gray School of Medicine by
being elected to membership in Alpha Omega Alpha, an honorary medical society. Scholastic achievement and character are the bases for
membership in Alpha Omega Alpha, which states as its primary objectives the encouragement of high standards of character and conduct
among medical students and the recognition of high attainment in medical science.

While at Davidson, Lane was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Student Council, Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-med, Sigma Delta Psi
athletics, Delta Phi Alpha German, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon chemistry. Lane was an ROTC colonel, a member of Scabbard and
Blade, and vice-president of Beta Theta Pi.

VISIT THE Tastee Freez in Cornelius

The Good Life Begins Just Off Highway 29
Famous For Relaxation And Enjoyment At HATTIE'S

DANIA RESTAURANT
CONCORD, N. C.
Open 6 A.M.-9 P.M.
WEDNESDAY NIGHTS: Golden Fried Chicken $1.50
FRIDAY NIGHTS: “All the Fish You Can Eat” $1.50
SAT. NIGHTS: Buffet Supper $2.50
American-Continental
Closed Mondays

Families In Travel Program
The International Student Travel Center has announced that hundreds of jobs are available to students through the work-travel program in
Europe. The bulk of these jobs cover factory, hotel, restaurant, resort, and construction work, but a number of jobs are
of special interest.

One such special job involves chauffeuring a Ferrari in Paris. Chauffeurs are not limited to Paris, for many prominent European
families have requested male students to act as chauffeurs in France and as crew on yachts in Denmark, Sweden, and
Norway. There are also openings for students on foreign liners and freighters during the fall and winter months as stewards,
deck, and engine room hands.

Girls can find work in Paris as models or in Brussels. Other positions available to them include positions as private
maids with English-speaking European families vacationing at St. Tropez, Juan les Pins, and Antibes on the French Riviera. Factory and
restaurant workers can expect to earn close to $200 a month. For restaurant employees, this would include salary and tips.

May 15 is the deadline for job placement as European employers have set planning deadlines at this date. Students interested
in special jobs should apply immediately as these jobs will be given to the best-qualified students who apply early. Anyone
interested in any phase of this program or desiring information concerning it should write to:

ISTC
39 Cortlandt Street
New York 7, N. Y.

Book Review Might Land Summer Job
The winner of a unique book review competition will receive a summer editorial job with a major New York publishing
firm. Salary, board, and winner's round-trip traveling expenses will be paid by the sponsor, Grosset & Dunlap, Inc., publisher of
the Universal Library line of paperback books.

The competition is open to all current undergraduates of accredited colleges and universities in the United States. It will run
from March 15 through May 1. The review of no more than 500 words must be based on one of
24 Universal Library paperbacks specified.

After Vespers Open House
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Burts
Daggy
Driesell
Gable
Griffin
Kelton
Lilly
Lloyd
MacCormac
Martin, J. G.
Richey
Scott
Stroud
Terry
Tilley
Tucker
White, I.
Williams

Terry Ends Frolics With Talk On ‘Flies’
Chaplain Will Terry will end Spring Frolics by leading vespers Sunday evening in the college church. William Sloan Coffin, chaplain
of Yale University, is the first vespers speaker for next year. Completing September will be Dr. James Mays, Old Testament
professor at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., Sept. 22, and Chaplain Terry, the 29th.

Terry will base his talk on William Golding’s book, Lord of the Flies. With the students in mind, Terry will
give an informal talk rather than the usual sermon. After this Sunday evening, there will be this semester only four
more vespers programs.

The following schedule of vespers speakers completes the semester:
Oct. 6 — Dr. Shirley Guthrie, professor of Theology at Columbia Theological Seminary.by the publisher. There will be 25 second
prizes of 25 Universal Library titles each and 25 third prizes of 10 Universal Library titles each. Rules and information
about the competition are available from Bill Hagen (Little 201) or the student can secure them by writing to: “Book
Review,” Grosset & Dunlap, 1107 Broadway, New York 10, N.Y.

Rev. Curtis Harper, pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, will conclude the broadcasts for the school year in about
three weeks. WBT in Charlotte has presented the informative programs this year. Dr. James T. Cleland, Dean of Chapel at
Duke University, and Dr. Edmund Steimle, professor of Preaching at Union Theological Seminary in New York, will preach on Nov.
3 and Nov. 10 respectively. The drama team of Union Theological Seminary will conduct an unusual vespers program on Nov.
17. The Rev. Louis Patrick, minister of the Trinity Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, will complete the November vespers program.

Programs this year have featured all of Davidson’s Reynolds and Otts lecturers, the Male Chorus and Wind Ensemble, the Board
of Visitors, and a large number of Davidson students and members of the faculty and administration on programs concerning everything
from folk music to integration. The annual Christmas vespers ends the vesper programs before the holidays. In January, Chaplain Terry
and the Rev. T. H. Hall, IV, of the First Presbyterian Church of Lenoir, will preach the closing vesper before
the beginning of semester exams. The remaining programs this year will include an examination of recent happenings in Southeast Asia
by Dr. Paul A. Marrotte, and readings of original poetry by Davidson students.

Discussing the first year of broadcasting, Ivey says: “Considering that we began last November with a hazy idea of our
goals for the program, and a limited list of program materials, I couldn't be disappointed with the results.” WBT has
indicated that they also have found the program successful. The show has attracted letters from as far away as Mississippi
and Vermont. Ivey will continue the show next year and has plans for the future: “I hope to be able
to use more of our faculty members and students on programs of an academic nature. I also want to use
more student creativity in our programs: radio plays, monologues, readings of papers—that sort of thing. Good presentations will not only
be a credit to the college, but they can be of value to the student as well.

“I hope that people will offer more suggestions for the program in the future. In it, we as a school
have the opportunity both to establish an image of Davidson in the minds of many who would never have otherwise
heard the name of the college, and to help inform the public of the interests, issues, and attitudes prevalent among
college students in our nation.”

Davidson May Not Attend Human Relations Meeting

If present arrangements continue, Davidson will go unrepresented at the All-South Human Relations Conference at the University of North Carolina
on May 2-5. The conference will be sponsored by the Young Adult Council which in turn represents 33 youth organizations
in the United States. These range in scope from the Young Democrats to the Future Farmers of America. All-Southern delegates
will find ample opportunity to express their ideas on race problems, politics, and the educational facilities of the South. Open
forums will encourage all the delegates to set forth their opinions and thoughts. No political philosophies will be presumed. In
addition, seminars on the addresses of the keynote speakers will be held to give the participants a chance to discuss
their views with a particular speaker. Thus it is hoped that through informal discussions, seminars, and forums the purpose of
the conference may be attained, which is, “to help young people define their role, as individuals, in the area of
human relations, considering the rapid changes in southern political, social, educational, and economic development.”

The four principal speakers will be Dr. J. Clayton Feaver, Dr. Richard Bardolph, Mrs. Constance Motley, and Rev. Will Campbell.
Feaver is the chairman of the Department of Religion at the University of Oklahoma. Bardolph, author of The Negro Vanguard,
is the chairman of the Department of History at the Women’s College of the University of North Carolina. Mrs. Motley
is a member of the NAACP legal staff for Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, and South Carolina. She was one of the
counsels who argued in the cases involving James Meredith and Harvey Gantt, and the University of Georgia. The Rev. Campbell
is at present executive director of race relations in the South for the National Council of Churches. Campbell, a native
Mississippian, served in the past as secretary of the YMCA at the University of Mississippi.

If anyone is interested in attending this conference or desires information about it, he may contact Danny Carrell in 107
Belk.

YMCA Announces Cabinet Positions

The YMCA cabinet positions for 1963-64 have been filled by the new “Y” officers, Joe Howell, president; Steve Davidson, vice
president; Steve Gill, secretary; and John Good, treasurer. Next year’s senior representative-at-large will be Doug Heidt, while George Oehler will
hold this position for the junior class. Hank Ackerman will be in charge of the Spiritual Life Committee, and Bill
Ferris and Jay Federman will head the Committee on Forums. Dan Adams will handle Deputations, and Tarby Bryant will steer
the Committee on International Affairs. Sid Moore will be the new chairman of the Book-of-the-Year committee, and Bob Ivey will
be in charge of the Freshman Camp next fall.

The new officers and cabinet members will go into office April 30, and they will spend the rest of the
year evaluating past YMCA programs and deciding on the programs for next year.

Ticket Office
Anderson's World's
1617 Elizabeth Ave.
Charlotte, N.C.

Restaurant Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.
“Our Fine Food Finds Friends”
Best Pecan Pie
JIMMY A. ANDERSON

Nothing gets it down. The indomitable Teapetiy leg stays up and up and up in plain white, white with tennis
stripes, or solid colors. No matter how much you whoop it up. In the air, her Shapette, 69¢, his Shape-Up,
85¢.
THE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO
