VOL. LI

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1963

IN ATO’S NIP CHI’S 1-F TRACK MEET (See Page Three)

NUMBER EIGHTEEN

Phi Beta Kappa Chooses Residential Nominees

Five Seniors, One Junior

BY BILL HUFFORD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Five seniors and one junior were elected to membership of Phi Beta Kappa Chapter of North Carolina on March 1 in the group’s spring election. They will be initiated on Friday, April 12. Gamma Chapter, established in 1923, requires a B-plus average for membership; also, not more than 12% of the senior class and eight per cent of the junior class may be elected. Membership in Phi Beta Kappa is considered the highest honor for scholastic achievement at Davidson.

* * * * *

RICHARD CALLAWAY

Richard Callaway, a pre-medical student, is from Maryville, Tenn. Callaway is a member of Alpha Tau Omega, vice-president of Alpha Epsilon Delta, pre-medical honorary, and a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemistry.

ALEC MORGAN

Alec Morgan, a pre-medical student, is from Atlanta, Ga. He serves as a member of the Honor Court, vice-president of YMCA, and treasurer of AED. A Beta, Morgan is also a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon.

PAUL DUVALL

Paul Duvall, a math major from East Point, Ga., belongs to ATO, Sigma Pi Sigma, physics honorary, and Delta Phi Alpha, German honorary. A member of the Student Council, he is serving as chairman of the Elections Board.

BERNARD SWOPE

Bernard Swope, a pre-medical student, is from Welch, W. Va. President of Sigma Phi Epsilon, Swope is also a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta and Gamma Sigma Epsilon.

BUDDY KEMP

Buddy Kemp, a history honors and economics student from Reidsville, is treasurer and rush chairman of Beta Theta Pi. President of the Business-Economics Association, Kemp also serves as captain in ROTC.

* * * * *

GRIER STEPHENSON

Grier Stephenson, a political science major, is from Covington, Ga. Stephenson, a junior, belongs to Phi Eta Sigma scholastic fraternity. Stephenson serves on the Westminster Fellowship Council.

First Summer Session Commences June 10

Davidson’s summer school sessions for 1963 will begin on June 10. As in the past, there will be three sessions of three weeks each, the last session ending on August 15.

During the first session, which begins with registration on June 10 for science courses and on June 12 for non-science courses, the curriculum will include Bible 22, Economics 21 and 31, English 21 and 81, French 21, German 11 and 21, History 11, Psychology 21, Spanish 22, Biology 11, Chemistry 11, 21, and 31, and Physics 21. This session will terminate with examinations on July 3.

Classes for the second session will resume on July 5. Being offered then are Bible 22, Economics 22 and 36, English 22 and 82, French 22, German 12 and 33, History 12 and 73, Math 15, Psychology 22, Spanish 22, Biology 12, Chemistry 12 and 32, and Physics 22. Non-science courses will have their exams on July 25, while the exams for science courses are scheduled for July 27.

The final session will begin for all courses with registration on July 29. Classes will begin on July 30 and will continue until August 15, when examinations for all courses will be given. Offered during this session will be Bible 31, Economics 42, History 74, Music 41, Math 16, and Sociology 52.

During the first two sessions, science courses will meet six days a week and non-science courses will meet five days a week, except Saturday, July 6, when all classes will meet. During the third session, all classes will meet six days a week.

This information, as well as descriptions of the courses and other pertinent data, will be available in the 1963 summer school catalogue, which is being published and will be ready for distribution within the next few weeks.

Classical Scholar Highet To Give Reynolds Lecture

Dr. Gilbert Highet, the fourth Reynolds Lecturer for the year, will speak here Tuesday and Wednesday, March 12 and 13. Highet, Anthon Professor of Latin at Columbia University, will speak Tuesday night at 8:15 in Hodson Hall on the topic, “The Liberal Teacher.” In a special assembly Wednesday, his subject will be “Ancestral Voices.” Because of this special assembly there will be no Tuesday chapel this week.

The classics scholar was born in Glasgow, Scotland and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 1952. From Glasgow University he received the MA degree with first-class honors in classics, a post-graduate diploma in history and archaeology, and was awarded a Ferguson Scholarship in classics. From Oxford University, he received the AB and MA degrees, and was awarded the Craven Scholarship and the Chancellor’s Prize, an honorary scholarship of Balliol.

Highet has been associated with Columbia University since 1937, first as Visiting Associate in classics, then as professor of Greek and Latin, and has held his present post since 1950. He is a member of the Board of Judges for the Book-of-the-Month Club; serves as chairman of the Advisory Board of Horizon magazine; and is a trustee of the American Academy in Rome. Awarded the Guggenheim Fellowship in 1951, and made a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 1959, he has been awarded a number of honorary degrees. He is the author of numerous publications.

Highet is married to the novelist, Helen MacInnes, author of Above Suspicion, Assignment in Brittany, and nine other novels, the most recent being Decision at Delphi.

Vie For Majority Vote Heffner And Jackson

The Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life met Wednesday afternoon to discuss problems concerning the off-campus drinking rule. The outcome of the two-hour discussion was a proposal to arrange for members of the committee to meet with each individual fraternity and present the committee’s views on the subject of fraternity functions and drinking.

Dr. W. G. Workman, chairman of the nine-man committee, said they had asked IFC president Johnny Rogers “to ask the fraternities to set up times, beginning Tuesday if possible, to have members of the committee meet with them and present these views and discuss them.”

Workman made it clear that “the committee is not proposing a change in the off-campus drinking rule.” Private suggestions to two fraternities concerning scheduled functions had given rise to some rumors that the faculty is changing or tightening up its policy concerning off-campus functions. Workman said “I don’t think there has been any deliberate increase in harshness. Something has just been called to our attention that we didn't know about.”

The meeting was inspired, at least in part, by the confusion resulting from some informal advice Workman had given earlier to two fraternities about scheduling cocktail parties as part of their official functions. He felt that such a party would be an infraction of the off-campus drinking rule.

Lenoir Rhyne Entry Debaters Cancel

The Freshmen debaters had to cancel a scheduled entry in the Lenoir Rhyne tournament to be held March 7 and 8. The trip was cancelled because of lack of practice. Only one person appeared for the practice sessions that were supposed to be held Monday, Feb. 25 and Tuesday, Feb. 26. Dr. J. T. Drake, the debate coach, remarked that he “did not feel like taking a team over there that had not practiced.”

The South Atlantic Forensic Tournament at Lenoir Rhyne has 13 teams entered; however, several have cancelled because of adverse weather.

The only future trip scheduled is one to the Tau Kappa Alpha tournament in Muncie, Ind. late this spring. The varsity team alone is going; it plans to fly. This will be the first time that the Davidson varsity team has gone to the national TKA tournament. TKA is the national debating fraternity. The tournament this year is sponsored by the TKA and Ball State Teacher's College in Indiana. All the chapters of TKA are invited to the contest.

Drake believes that the lack of interest shown by the novice team is due to the discouraging showing of the team so far (no certificates or titles won), lack of time, and an unexciting national topic. He said that the team needed to put much more time into practice: about one two-hour session of practice together and three or four hours of research a week.Varsity team has made a better showing, about 50-50. However, this record does not match the one made in the past few years. Drake noted that several faculty members have indicated that they are sympathetic with the team's efforts.

Faculty Group Discusses Drinking With Fraternities
BY RICK VON UNWERTH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The rule, as defined in the Wildcat Handbook, is this: Davidson College is opposed as a matter of principle to the use of alcoholic beverages by students. A student will ordinarily be suspended if he is found guilty of drinking, possessing, or being under the influence of an alcoholic beverage while within the town limits of Davidson or while attending any off-campus event sponsored entirely or in part by Davidson College.

“It is our interpretation,” said Workman, “that a fraternity function is sponsored in part by the college” and therefore subject to the rule. Johnny Rogers, who was present at Wednesday’s meeting in his advisory capacity as IFC president, said that the problem “is mainly one of communication. I think it will improve our situation when the committee members and the fraternities discuss this matter and determine where they stand.” The committee will meet again Monday to prepare its views for presentation to the fraternities.

Dean Asks Profs About Holiday Cuts

The office of Dean of Students is distributing a questionnaire among faculty members to find out how many students cut just before and just after the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays. Professors are being asked to compare the rate of absences under the new absence regulations and under those last year when a double-cut was charged to students cutting a course the two days before and the two days after a holiday. They are also invited to offer their comments on improving the system.

The survey grew out of a request from President D. Grier Martin to document a statement being prepared for the Trustees that said cutting was not noticeably worse under the new system than under the old. “I have had sporadic information from some professors that the cutting was not as bad as some had feared,” reported Dean Richard C. Burts. “But President Martin said we needed concrete statistics. Our only purpose is to document a feeling we’ve had. I think the results are going to show we didn't have a mass exodus,” he smiled.

Young Blades Tap Eight For Honorary

Scabbard and Blade, honorary fraternity, tapped six cadets and two cadre officers for membership at drill on Tuesday, March 5. Tapped were Cadet Col. Bill Plunket, Cadet Lt. Col. Mike Owen, Cadet Maj. Ham Cooke, Cadet Captains Edward Crutchfield and Bill Jarman, and Cadet 1st Lt. Charlie Safley. Capt. Robert W. Pierce and Capt. C. C. Partridge were tapped from the ROTC Cadre.

Ensemble Will Give Concert

The Davidson College Wind Ensemble will present a Nineteenth Century Band Concert in Hodson Hall on March 15, at 8:15 p.m. Sharing the conductor's spotlight with Dr. Grier M. Williams, Ensemble director, will be James C. Harper, '15, of Lenoir. While at Davidson, Harper participated actively in the music program, directing the College Orchestra during his last two years. After leaving Davidson, he entered the business field before going to Lenoir to direct the American Legion Band there. When this organization was discontinued in 1924, he accepted a job as temporary band director in the Lenoir High School and remained in this position until his retirement in 1956. Under his leadership, the Lenoir band won first division ratings in state competition for thirty-four consecutive years. Harper has played in all parts of the U.S. and has directed every major service band and also the famous Goldman Band. He is a past president of the American Bandmasters Association, the only high school director to have held this position. This past summer he was asked by Gov. Terry Sanford to represent the state at the World's Fair in Seattle. At the present time, he holds the position of Director Emeritus of the Lenoir band.

The program for the concert will include “Der Freischutz” by C. M. v. Weber, “A Pot Pourri of 19th Century Airs” arranged by Phillip Lang, Gounod’s famous “Funeral March of a Marionet,” “The Barber of Seville” by Rossini, and Offenbach’s “Ballet Parisien.” Completing the program will be “L’Estudiantina” by Waldteufel, “Marche Militaire No. 1” from Schubert’s Opera 51, and “Ballet Music and Soldiers March” from Rossini’s “William Tell.” Soloist for the evening will be Williams, who will play the well-known trumpet solo, “Carnival of Venice.”

Lettermen To Play At Spring Concert

The Lettermen, one of the faster rising vocal groups in the country, will perform for Spring Concert, March 16, at 8 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. The contract, according to IFC President Johnny Rogers, has been signed, and the deposit has been paid. In the autumn of 1961, the Lettermen began their climb with “The Way You Look Tonight.” “When I Fall In Love” soon followed and reached the best-selling list across the country. Before the Lettermen were formed, Robert Engemann was a missionary for two years and had become an elder in the Mormon Church. Tony Butalo, a veteran night club singer, had been the leader of his own group, The Fourmost. Jim Pike is the one genuine “letterman” in the group—a high school football halfback. Each had performed individually before their first recording in 1960. Pike had appeared at Hollywood's Moulin Rouge with Louis Prima and Keely Smith; Engemann had sung with Lawrence Welk's Orchestra; and Butalo had previously organized the Fourmost.

Presidents Juniors Fred McGuirt, John Spratt, and Jerry Trammell will go before the student body in assembly and at an evening forum Monday to present their platforms for the student body presidency.

Tommy Heffner and Will Jackson were elected first and second vice-presidents of the student body respectively, edging out Barry Teague today in one of the closest elections ever held on campus. Still in the running for secretary-treasurer are Andy Little and Tiff Harrington, who barely survived today’s voting over Joe Davis and Jack Kimball. Harrington and Little will enter a fourth run-off on Tuesday to decide the winner. Today marked the third day of balloting on campus. Wednesday’s balloting drew 419 voters, far below last year’s first-day high of 568. Today's voting drew 398 students. Heffner led today’s first race with 187 votes. At his heels were Jackson with 175 and Teague with 168. In the tight race for secretary-treasurer, Little led with 149, followed by Harrington with 86, Davis with 84, and Kimball with 78.

Heffner, a member of Phi Gamma Delta, is presently serving as secretary-treasurer of the student body. He is from Newton, N. C., and is on the track and cross country teams. Jackson is from Decatur, Ga., and is now president of the sophomore class. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi and plays on the varsity football team.

JOHN SPRATT
Spratt is presently serving as first vice-president of the student body. A native of York, S. C., he is a member of Beta Theta Pi. He is studying pre-law and holds a history honors degree. He was previously a member of the Freshman Council and Lettermen.

FRED McGUIRT
McGuirt, a Sigma Chi, is now serving as second vice-president of the student body. He and his wife, the former Martha Kathryn Scarborough, are both from Lumberton, N. C. He is a pre-med major with a 2.5 average. McGuirt was president of his sophomore class and played on the varsity football team. He is also a member of the freshman council.

JERRY TRAMMELL
Trammell, from Shelby, N. C., is studying pre-law and majoring in economics. He holds a 1.7 average. He was a member of the freshman council and played on the freshman and varsity basketball teams. He is now president of the junior class and a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.