The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Sticks And Carrots

In the last several years Davidson College has made some outstanding strides toward attaining academic excellence. Programs such as Humanities,
Senior Research, and Advanced Standing have been instituted, and the seminar program has been enlarged. A Fine Arts Building has
been built, and art, music, and drama have begun receiving long overdue attention. Also, student-led projects such as the Great
Issues series have been encouraged and subsidized by the present administration.

This year, however, it seems as if the college has suddenly looked back over its shoulder to see academic stragglers
in the student body. It also seems that rather than continuing to place emphasis on strengthening intellectual incentives in curricular
and extra-curricular programs, the college has chosen to pick up a brickbat with which to beat said stragglers upon their
heads. Having spent the past two weeks on the matter of Academic Probation (which the faculty liberalized this week), we
turn to the rejuvenated Underachievement Program, which we were hitherto led to believe was an innocent attempt to rid the
college of non-contributing vegetation.

However, apparently the college intends to make a bit more of their policy on Underachievement than we had anticipated. In
the latest Alumni Bulletin, the cover article is a collection of unadulterated nonsense grandly entitled “Academic Excellence at Davidson: A
Move Against Underachievement.” The article reads in part: “... with unmistakable impact that could have far-reaching effect in higher education—Davidson
College has inaugurated a carefully planned program to rid its campus of the ‘Gentleman’s C.’”

Who is anybody trying to kid? Does Davidson College really believe the Big Time Liberal Arts schools are watching its
Underachievement program with anything more than condescending amusement? When the Big Time admits a student, they do so knowing from
a careful study of his record that he can do the work involved, and therefore they spend their time, effort,
and funds keeping him motivated by improving the academic curriculum, by bringing in outstanding speakers and scholars-in-residence, by purchasing books,
and so forth.

The article also mentions “Accepting the fact that the college can predict what kind of record a man will make
at Davidson ....” We have serious doubts about the infallibility of a formula which claims to predict accurately what a
man’s grade point average should be in college. Also, we feel there is a decided danger that the continued emphasis
on penalties for low grades will turn grade-consciousness into grade-obsession. The idea of using a mathematical formula to rate a
student’s efforts is hardly in keeping with the liberal arts concept of developing the “well-rounded man,” and so far the
emphasis has been almost entirely on the underachiever's being within the arbitrary .5 of his projected grade point average.

The best suggestion we've heard is that anyone rated an “overachiever” by the formula should be forced to go out
for football or some other time-consuming extra-curricular and see how long he continues to over-achieve.

A committee has been appointed by the faculty to study “academic performance in general at Davidson.” Such is an excellent
idea, and we hope the committee will include three areas in particular in its study. First, we hope the committee
will investigate the possibilities of more professor-student contact in forums, etc. Among the best attended and most beneficial events on
campus in our four years were the debates involving Panel vs Uris vs. Audience-in-general, and Patterson vs. Lewis, in which
professors took an active lead in the discussion. Secondly, the committee could look into the odds on getting a foundation
to give a sizable grant to the under-everything college library. And thirdly, speaking of academic excellence, could the committee please
study classroom techniques. The Humanities lectures and seminar courses have met with much success, but some courses here fall far
short of a desirable level of intellectual stimulation. Students cut these classes simply because sleeping in bed is more comfortable
than sleeping in a chair.

We would like to see the college’s interest in positive pursuit of true academic excellence continued while negative rewards are
given the minimum amount of necessary attention. Meaning, for instance, that the Alumni Bulletin could serve a much higher purpose
by explaining Davidson’s actual achievements in the academic field rather than printing cover stories flaunting the rather embarrassing fact that
Davidson feels it needs an Underachievement program.

Julie

It is with a small amount of surprise and a great deal of pleasure that we welcome the proposed change
of format for the next Mid-Winters dance weekend. The movement, which originated with the Fraternity Presidents Council, will devote all
allocated IFC funds to a single formal dance, to be off-campus and featuring a big name band and a vocalist—hopefully
Julie London. This is probably the first original thought to pass the IFC in four years. For those who have
attended eight or ten of Davidson’s “dance weekends,” the same old routine of concert, after-concert party and sleep is becoming
almost unbearable. He seems so blissful because we have only three such opportunities to blow off steam. Even under-achievers need
to cut loose every now and then! Now at last we have something different to look forward to.

For many, the thought of a dance weekend with only one IFC function—at that a formal dance—is less than pleasing.
But, though we all hate to admit it, there is usually simply too much to do on a regular dance
weekend. After the rigors of an all-night party on Friday, we are unable to enjoy Saturday’s fare. This new IFC
proposal will leave much more room for leisure time—something that every dance weekend needs more of.

If Davidson is going to imitate the Ivy League schools in the academic field, it is only natural that we
follow a similar form as concerns social matters—especially big dance affairs. Call it sophistication or whatever, there is still something
nice about a formal dance with a big name band and vocalist—if it’s done right. And it looks as if
the IFC is going to do it right this time. The idea of having said dance off-campus is an excellent
one. Somehow the thought of waltzing one’s date across the center-circles to the lovely music of the Clemson “Jungleers” is
just not an appealing one. We certainly hope that this Mid-Winters dance is predestined to be a success, and that
all the details can be worked out. There will be, of course, the reluctant core of “cool guys” on the
fraternity court who will look with disdain and contempt upon such a non-Weejun affair. But maybe we should forget our
insatiable desire for lousy folk music just this once and see what it’s like to have a dance on a
dance weekend.

Scripts 'n Pranks Shakily Out Of Womb, Into The Cradle

BY BILL RUTH

The “out of the womb and into the world” issue of Scripts ‘n Pranks was delivered at 7:31 p.m. Oct.
25 to a rather large group of unexpectant young ladies, while the proud father dined on his fingernails and diluted
his worries, just up the road. Father and child are doing well despite an abortive croquet match which father attempted
to nurture. The adopted mothers are also up and around, seeming none the worse from their ordeal. The child, a
boy we are told, has toddled around campus for two weeks now, displaying his few talents, most of which we
find innate by nature rather than acquired. He has the eyes and mouth of nearly all of his ancestors and
the nose of a few of them.

Although the magazine has few of the objectionable odors of its parent (in fact it’s downright clean), upon reading it
one wonders at times if it might not need a diaper change; cf. “A Place to Get Off” by Jim
Tanner. The troubles of the world seem to prove quite a load for the protagonist. The title “Dawn of Nothing”
seems also to be a bit suggestive. In this rather precocious display, young Charlie Vick toys noisily with the “insight”
attributed to him by this S’nP editor. We would caution the proud parent not to brag about his exuberant children.

S’nP, as he is called to his face, is quite a serious minded youngster. He rarely smiles, never laughs and
his feet seem so insecure that he verily seems to fly about campus. Not a very robust youngster, he has
been seen whiling away hours with a cat having a very characteristic grin. The question has been raised as to
what should be done with this little urchin. Perhaps he should be quietly drowned in an Auld Mug. We think
not... the child resembles each of us too much to warrant such inhumanity. Indeed, he belongs to us all. Each
of us shared in his conception. If he laughs too little and contemplates too much, we must blame ourselves. It
is we that have made him and not he himself. In his most cogent moments he reflects our feelings: toward
a Puerto Rican from the Lower East Side, a sergeant at summer camp, loneliness on a bus, pathos for the
dead, love for a girl... ourselves and each other. The mind of the child rambles and repeats. The toddler lies
and he steals. He can often see no end nor a beginning. He speaks stupid, meaningless drivel at times. But,
then, don’t we all. Perhaps such a serious magazine can deliver us from the womb of complacency into...

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Hall Answers Critics: ‘I Have No Monopoly’

Ed. note: The following letter from Charlotte booking agent Ted Hall is his answer to Tim Kimrey’s editorial (“The Big
Haul”) and Rufus Hallmark’s cartoon (“The Big Hall”), which appeared in the Oct. 4 DAVIDSONIAN.

Dear Editor:

Several of your fellow students have sent me copies of your editorial entitled “The Big Haul” and the accompanying cartoon
entitled “Auction.” I am flattered that you would take of your valuable time to build my modest efforts into such
a colossal “monopoly.” I am afraid, however, that you either did not have all the facts or else some of
the information you have received has been distorted.

First, let me hasten to assure you that what little success I have had in the booking business has been
earned through hard work and a conscientious effort to be of real service to the fraternities and to the schools.
I have no monopoly. A look through the yellow pages of telephone directories in principal cities in this area: Charlotte,
Greensboro, Durham, Raleigh, Columbia, etc. will show you that there are many booking agencies. The simple truth is that the
majority of fraternities and colleges themselves come to me because they know that not only will they get absolute dependable
service but that the price will be reasonable.

It is in the American tradition of free enterprise that a man in any business succeeds only when he gives
honest service and complete value for the dollar spent.a world in which life is not always a bowl of cherries,
but quite often a bowl of pits. In the case of the Davidson fraternities, I have had the privilege of
booking over 400 combos there during the past two and one-half years. Out of this large number of bookings, there
were only two missouts (sic) due to unavoidable circumstances that will occasionally arise when you are dealing with human beings.
This means that when a fraternity books with me, there is hardly one chance out of 200 that the musicians
will fail to show up. I do not believe that this record can be beat anywhere. I also point out
to you that quantity booking of these combos not only lowers the price, but also improves the quality of the
combo. I do not hold these combos by “ball and chain" as you depict. They come to me because they
know that I am in a position to give them more work than any other booking office in this part
of the country, and I always pass this advantage on to my clients. It is, as you might say, like
“buying something wholesale.” You always get a better price. College fraternities—from Maryland to Florida, and west to the Mississippi—have found
that they obtain better service and at a lower price than can possibly be obtained elsewhere. That is the only
reason why my business has flourished. You should commend me for this achievement. It is not for me to say
whether after-dance parties should or should not be given. However, since they are being given by fraternities all over the
country and since they want live music, I can only exert every effort to furnish them with some and at
a price to come within their budget. I am sure that if you take the trouble to canvass (sic) the
various fraternities and to compare the price they are paying today with the price they paid a couple of years
ago, you will find that there have been very few increases in prices. Actually, we have been able to reduce
the prices on most of the groups because of volume booking. Since your article was published several weeks ago, I
have personally talked to each fraternity social chairman, and am pleased to inform you that none of them share in
your opinions. Actually, when you consider the amount of time the social chairmen will have to devote in attempts to
secure good combos, plus the amount spent in long-distance calls, etc., you will find that actually they are saving time,
effort, and money in dealing directly with my office. As to my having contracts with several restaurants and clubs in
the city of Charlotte, this certainly is not true. In fact, usually when I contact a particular place, it is
done as a service to the fraternity and not through any financial consideration as far as I am concerned. As
to the rents sky-rocketing “during the last three years,” I think that you will find that rents generally have increased
in the last three years. This is due to a general slight inflation and the high cost of living. I
am sure that your professor of economics will bear me out in this. I do not set the rental price
that any club or restaurant is asking. It stands to reason, that since my business is booking orchestras and combos,
I could not make a booking unless a place is available in which the party could be given. Therefore, it
would be to my advantage to help secure such places and at the same time, keep the cost down as
low as possible. If I can in any way assist the Inter-Fraternity Council in trying to secure more reasonable prices
from such clubs and restaurants, I will gladly do so. I hope that you will print this letter in full
so that, in the American tradition, both sides of this matter can be read by your fellow students, many of
whom (sic) are my friends.

Ted Hall
HIT ATTRACTIONS, INC.

ASTERISK

Shadows Engulf Davidson At Dusk

Time present and time past
Are both perhaps present in time future,
And time future contained in time past.
T. S. Eliot

BY RICK VON UNWERTH

Metropolitan Davidson comes into its own at nine o'clock. When the lights dim and the lock turns on Ralph Quackenbush’s
ambitious, new-world Hub, Main Street retires under a musty quilt of shadows—a patchwork of Faulkner, Dickens, and Horatio Alger. Something
new and modern is added every year—the Bank and Insurance building first, then the Hub, and this year P. Nicholls’
latter-day emporium. But Davidson's face refuses to be lifted, and the long merchants row continues to exude an oddly timeless
personality after sundown.

Begin about nine at Withers Appliance store. There’s a Sales Spree under way. The window offers an electric toothbrush and
a giant pumpkin, and a display of the ultimate in water closet furniture stands just inside the door. The Wisteria
Beauty Salon—now defunct—cowers between two yawning doorways, the mouths of high-ceilinged caverns full of old boarding and dust drifts. Any
of the three could probably boast of some lively commerce in pre-Computer years. The highly touted “Bonanza” three-bedroom home is
yours for the asking at North Mecklenburg Realty. Just pick your lot in a comfortable suburb. On the other side
of the partition W. S. Henderson mends jewelry behind a Norman Rockwell portrait during the days. There’s a fascinating wallful
of ancient clocks to help the time pass while you wait. Then comes the rich-toned, imported, and glamorous impeccability of
Rush Wilson, Ltd., where the stripes and tweeds make still another round in the cycle of sophisticated haberdashery. No dust
or tarnish yet on the Bank, or on P. (Let us know your needs) Nicholls; only patronizing moonlight. Past the
Printing Company, the all-purpose Realty establishment, and at nine-thirty McKissick’s shoe machines are still humming behind dusty blinds. The M&M
Soda Shop—Mary’s—next, with its empty window carpeted with Casper and Archie comics and with faded copies of Sepia and Bronze
Thrills for the man who wants something a little more colorful than the standard magazine. And Mother’s bread is only
a dime at Cashion’s. Next door the Western Auto window parades a cheery storeful of absorbing toys for all ages.
Marietta Hat Shop, with a bead-bedecked African mask, asserts itself out of the hedge-lined shadows of two private door-yards, and
the College Restaurant promises good coffee and oysters in season within. Between two matching outdoor thermometers, each proclaiming the chocolate-covered
road to regularity, the Hub shines bright as usual and a sign at the Ideal Cleaners gives specifics for this
week’s community barbecue. Hood Norton's tonsorium and Copeland's jungle round out the section between the orange and blue thermometers, the
second of which reminds us that a tin of relief can be purchased just inside at White's Rexall Drugstore in
the daytime. In White’s, too, a listless, long-stemmed ceiling fan swirls the musty air over a small collection of shopworn
books, “for sale cheap”, and Liz Taylor pouts “I’ve been betrayed!” in a corner rack of assorted magazines. The Garden
Corner marks the end of the line, and its plate glass windows reflect the diffusion of red, green, and yellow
whose pattern alternates conscientiously to marshal the phantom traffic of Davidson after hours. Across the street the college church is
cloaked in amber shadows, and pale leaves drift softly against the memory of the literary societies, quietly acknowledging the autumn
of Davidson.

NSA Serves Beneficial Role With Aid For Campus Groups

BY JOHN SPRATT

In accordance with a petition presented to the student council, the student body will have the opportunity to register its
own opinion about membership in the National Student Association. A referendum has been scheduled for Monday, Nov. 18. But before
that referendum is held, I think the student body should be adequately informed about NSA. Otherwise the vote will be
a toss-up over misconceptions.

No one has claimed that NSA has been a dynamic force on the Davidson campus, and no one has said
that it is a panacea. NSA has its limitations and particularly at Davidson. Two summers ago when Danny Carrell and
I attended the National Student Congress, we concluded that NSA could best be used indirectly, that there was no real
reason to set up a campus committee to implement its ideas and push its platform. There are already organizations on
campus which function similar to the functioning of formal NSA committees at other colleges. The YMCA, the Roundtable Committee, the
International Relations Club, the Conservative Club, even the literary societies sponsor panels and forums on social and political issues. It
would only choke up the extra-curricular program to squeeze in another organization to do the same thing half a dozen
are already doing. So the Student Council’s approach has been to channel the resources of NSA to other organizations, and
this is a major reason why most know so little about NSA as such.

Through NSA, for instance, any organization can have access to Polback, a library of background materials on political topics. The
Student Government Information Service is also available with studies concerning student government. Through NSA also, the student council is a
member of Educational Travel Incorporated. This was put to use last year by Dudley Salley in a YMCA foreign travel
program and will be used this year by John Carson and a special committee on student travel and study abroad.
Through NSA, the student council offers to the Scripts ‘n Pranks the opportunity to participate in a national literary review
connected with the Saturday Review. This does not exhaust the list of specific benefits, but I think it establishes my
point. NSA can serve significantly as a strictly supplementary source.

All of this is obtained, moreover, for the price of $30, the total amount of our membership dues to the
National Student Association. And for $30 we get everything; there are no special assessments. It costs more, of course, to
be represented at the National Student Congress. If a delegate stays the full two weeks, it costs well over $100.
But this is far less than what the campus publications spend attending a convention which lasts only a few days.

Probably the really controversial fact about our membership in NSA is not cost or benefit, however; but rather, it is
NSA’s socio-political bent. It should be clearly established that membership in NSA means, in this respect, only one thing: that
we are willing to discuss. It does not mean that we agree with any of their publicized policies, and the
constitution of NSA unambiguously asserts this fact. It is a clearinghouse for ideas, and no objecting minority must subscribe to
or support the opinions of the majority. If, in fact, the minority can get sufficient support, NSA will print its
opinions also.

With Freeny’s argument that social, economic, and political issues do not apply to students, I flatly disagree. What is more
applicable or pertinent for the student than to relate his education to contemporary issues? As I said to begin with,
NSA is not a cure-all. I admit its shortcomings and disagree with many of its positions. But I also realize
that it is of positive assistance in helping student government try to do the job it ought to do.
