FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 1963 PAGE THREE

Thinclads Journey To Emory Win Of Season

The track team will journey to Decatur, Ga., tomorrow to battle Emory University in their second meet of the outdoor
season. Emory is rated “not very strong” this year in track. This is the first time the two schools have
competed in this sport. The ‘Cats started off their season on Wednesday with a resounding win over Lenoir Rhyne and
Catawba. The final score was Davidson 84, Lenoir Rhyne 62, and Catawba 30. Bill Rhyne of Lenoir Rhyne was the
meet’s high-point man. Although winning no events, he placed in six—the 100, 220, broad jump, high jump, pole vault, and
a leg on the winning mile relay team—to rack up 15½ points. Captain Bob Cordle was Davidson's high-point man with
11 points—placing first in the broad jump, triple jump, and fourth in the 100. Alan Turner, Davidson's top sprinter, won
the 100, 220, and ran anchor leg on the second-place mile relay team. He finished with 10½ points.

HIGHLIGHTS and SIDELIGHTS BY BILL PRIDGEN

A FEW SUGGESTIONS

Since this will be my last column, I feel that I have a right to drop the editorial “we” for
a change and resume my identity. First of all, I would like to thank all the boys who have written
for me during the past year. They’ve caused a lot of headaches, but they’ve done a good job. There are
several observations that I would like to make on the athletic program here at Davidson. These observations have been made
during the past year in my contact with the sports program here. These are entirely personal opinions and should be
regarded as such.

First, there should be an increase in scholarships, mainly to give such sports as tennis, track, wrestling, and swimming one
or two scholarships. This is not because I believe in athletic scholarships in principle, but simply because we are in
a conference where we have to compete with schools who grant a few scholarships in most sports. This is not
to say that all, or even most, conference schools subsidize these sports, but Davidson is at an added disadvantage to
most other schools in that we have relatively fewer people to draw our teams. Compare the size of our student
body to that of The Citadel or VPI. An added advantage in giving a few scholarships in minor sports is
that it takes much less to see the results. Also, I would like to see an extra basketball scholarship each
year to give Coach Driesell a little more to work with.

I wish that the athletic department would take better care of the cinder track and the tennis courts. I know
that the tennis courts are difficult to take care of properly, but since the school chose to build that court
they should also take the responsibility of taking good care of them. Another change I would really like to see
made is the opening of the gym at night several nights a week during the basketball season for those who
don’t get enough opportunities to play in the afternoon. Perhaps the thing that I would like to see most is
the building of a brand new gym that would be completely adequate for our needs. Since this will not be
forthcoming any time in the near future, I would definitely like to see an enlargement of the present gym to
seat larger crowds.

In closing, I would like to say that it’s been hectic at times and always time-consuming, but I've really enjoyed
my year as sports editor. The people I’ve gotten to know and work with in the athletic department are really
a good group.

RANDOM THOUGHTS

Lefty Driesell was sporting a brand new flashy watch and assistant coach Joe Hunt was eating over a fancy piece
of new luggage Tuesday morning after they were wined and dined at an alumni affair Monday night. Another alumni to-do
is in the cards with Lefty once more guest of honor. Word was on Monday's fling that more old grads
were on hand than at any other time for any kind of event... so it just goes to show how
important the old grads think sports are at the alma mater. Joe and Lefty are busy recruiting now, hoping to
line up some more talent for next season's team.

1963 TRACK SCHEDULE

March 20 Emory University Atlanta, Ga.
April 10 Presbyterian College Clinton, S. C.
April 13 News Piedmont Relays Greenville, S. C.
April 19 U. of Richmond Here
April 23 VPI Here
April 27 Davidson Relays Here
May 4 Wake Forest Winston-Salem
May 10-11 Southern Conference Charleston, W. Va.

Ronnie Ritter Signs Basketball Scholarship

Basketball coach Lefty Driesell has announced the signing of Ronnie Ritter, high school basketballer from Cranford, N. J., to a
grant-in-aid athletic scholarship at Davidson College. Ritter, 6'3" and a 20 point per game high school star at Cranford High
School, is the first basketballer signed in by the Wildcats this spring for their basketball program. “Ritter is a great
outside shooter and floorman. We consider him to be a very fine prospect for college basketball,” said assistant basketball coach
Joe Hunt.

We Feature Free Hotel and Airport Pickup and Delivery Service.

Other Davidson notables: the “Mighty Mite”—senior Sterling Martin—finished first in the two-mile, loafing around the 8 laps in 10:06. Tom
Heffner and Denny Phillips finished with the same time in the mile, 4:37.5, but Heffner was awarded first place. Ronnie
Reese breezed to a 2:04 winning time in the 880. Billy Mills won the pole vault with a 12½ foot
leap, and Keith Fraser took the high jump at 6'2”.

After the meet Coach Heath Whittle had this to say: “I'm well pleased with this team. They've done very well
today and they should win a good many meets this year.”

SAILING GRACEFULLY over the bar, KEITH FRASER adds another first to the ‘Cat scores as he managed to clear 6'2”.

LOOKING SLIGHTLY TIRED, KEN KELLY noses out TOM WATSON in the 440 as they leave everybody else in the distance
in Wednesday's first meet with Lenoir Rhyne and Catawba. The KELLY-WATSON combination was only one of several engineered by the
Wildcat track team.

Linksters Face Wake In Today's Golf Action

Coach Tom Scott’s Wildcat linksters met the Deacons of Wake Forest this afternoon at Winston-Salem in their fourth match of
the season. “They're one of the top teams in the country,” said Scott, commenting on his team's chances. “They have
the top team we'll meet this year by far.” The Deacon golfers have already gotten off to a fast start
this year, dropping both N. C. State and the University of North Carolina to losses.

The 'Cat linksters received setbacks on Monday and Tuesday which broke their four-match winning streak. On Monday they lost 17-7
to the N. C. State golfers at Raleigh and on Tuesday in a rain-drenched match they were overpowered by Carolina
23½-½. Surprisingly enough, Scott was not discouraged by the bombing his team received at the hands of U.N.C. He said,
“We knew they were tough, and we played good golf considering the conditions. They just played the best golf they've
played all year.” The only ‘Cat golfer to pick up any points was Mackey McClelland who shot a 75 and
wound up with ½ point. Also shooting a 75 was Tom Romoda who played the second nine in 34. Frank
McPhillips, playing number one, shot a 76 on both Monday and Tuesday and Mims Rodgers finished with two 77's. Scott
said, “I'm pleased with the scores these boys are turning in, and they should get better as the season progresses.”

Over the spring break the team will play three matches. On Thursday they meet Wake Forest at Gastonia, on Friday
they face U.N.C. in Charlotte, and on Saturday they take on a group of Charlotte alumni.

Dole Says Spring Football Is ‘Very Good’ This Year

BY ROGER DAVID Sports Staff Writer

Today marks the 13th session of spring practice for the Wildcat football team, and Coach Dole considers it to be
‘very good.” The greatest problem facing the team now is the conflict of labs. Every day there are at least
eight boys who cannot make practice because of lab. This necessitates reviewing much each day for the boys who missed
the day before, and concentrating on the individual player. Because of these conflicts, there will be no spring scrimmage this
year. Up to this time Dole has been spending a great deal of time working.on the offense and kicking game.
After spring vacation there will be only eight more days of practice for the Wildcats to polish up their game.
Dole seems to be especially pleased with the development of some key rising sophomores. Coach Bill Dole considers Sid Thompkins,
a quarterback, as “well-skilled and fast.” Guards Woody Hill and Jerry Blackstock, and tackles Stu Perry and Steve Simmons will
add much-needed depth to the line. Phil Hightower and Jim Rollins are developing well at end, while halfbacks Pack Hindsley,
John Little, and Steve Smith will deepen the backfield. Benny Coxton, who was laid off last season because of a
shoulder injury, is participating in spring practice with a clean bill of health from Duke Hospital. Dole feels that he
is showing his old form and that the Wildcats are better set at quarterback this year than ever, with Coxton,
Earl Cole, and Thompkins in this position.

‘Net Team Starts Week-Long Tour
BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Sports Staff Writer

After losing to a strong Citadel team, the Davidson College Tennis Team begins a week-long southern tour tomorrow with a
match with Furman at Greenville. Following the Furman match, the Cat netters continue their trip southward to meet five other
teams in a like number of days. The netmen will meet Valdosta State, Rollins, Florida Southern, Stetson, and close the
tour with Hope College at Daytona on April 5. “We expect to return from the trip with the board even,”
said the Davidson Mentor Harry Fogleman. “Our big question mark is team captain and Number 1 player, Bobby Austell, who
twisted his ankle in the Citadel match; it is doubtful that Austell will be able to play in one or
two of the matches.”

In the Citadel match, Austell and sophomore Bill Shutt looked good for the Wildcats; Austell was looking sharp in his
play until he twisted his ankle and had to lose the match by default. Along with Austell and Shutt, other
players making the trip are Bill Backlund, Frank Eberhard, Gene McCutcheon, John Ariail, Rieck Reed, and manager Paul Stotts. The
freshman team fell to a tough Woodberry Forest team, 6-3, Monday. Woody Cleveland and Dick Hurd took their singles matches
and then joined together to take the only other ‘Kitten win. Other freshmen on the team are Bill Council, Jack
Goodykoontz, Jeff Frank, and David Yeschan. The Wildkittens meet the Greenville High School team in Greenville, S.C. today.

First Baseballers Seek Win Today
BY FORREST ROLES
Sports Staff Writer

Today Davidson's baseball team finished a series of two games against Milligan College. The ‘Cats played their third game of
the season yesterday. Sunday they will start on their own southern trip visiting Georgia Southern and Mercer before returning home
April 6 to start conference play. After two games with the surprisingly strong Pfeiffer College squad, the 'Cats have a
0-2 record, losing 11-1 and 8-4. The latter loss was inflicted last Friday at Pfeiffer in a game characterized by
sloppy play on both sides. The ’Cats’ starter Dave Johnson hurled 6 good innings giving up only an unearned run
in the first and an equally sketchy one in the third on a walk, a stolen base, and a scratch
single. By the sixth he had been staked to a 2 run lead by third baseman Tommy Whitley’s 400 ft.
2 run homer. But in the seventh the roof fell in on the by-then tired Johnson. He gave up four
singles sandwiched around two infield errors without getting anyone out. By the time Jim Moore could put out the fire,
Pfeiffer had scored five runs and virtually sewed up the game. Ronny Rudolph gave up the eighth run in the
final inning on a home run. The ‘Cats looked somewhat better in an abbreviated practice game with East Carolina College,
March 21. Earle Cole’s three innings of pitching were marred by a single walk and Jim Moore also looked sharp
but was hampered by bad breaks and bad play behind him. When the game was called on account of the
cold windy weather after seven innings it was tied 4-4. Coach Tom Stephens plans to start Earle Cole against Colgate
and either Tom Hamilton or Barry Teague against Milligan. He has about decided who the starting team will be with
the exception of shortstop where Rick Smyre and Phil Squire are battling it out. Smyre has looked good at this,
a new position for him. If Squire does play shortstop, Smyre will probably be sent to first base. Coach Stephens
hopes to round the team into shape over the Spring Break, although basketballers Charlie Marcon and Barry Teague will be
unable to make the trip and cannot rejoin the team until after the break.

IMAC Basketballers Deadlocked For First

Last night the 1963 Interfraternity basketball season ended with the Independents and Kappa Sigs deadlocked for first place. They were
followed by the Phi Delts, Phi Gams, and Sigma Chis respectively. Charlie Marshall, KA center, was the season's top scorer
with just under an 18 point per game average. Closely behind him in second and third place were the Phi
Delt's Phil Squier and the Independent's Stu Burness.

FINAL I-F BASKETBALL STANDINGS
Team W L
Independents 11 1
Kappa Sigs 11 1
Phi Delts 10 2
Phi Gams 9 3
Sigma Chis 8 4
ATO's 7 5
Betas 6 6
SAE's 5 7
KA's 4 8
Sigma Nus 3 9
Pika’ 2 10
Pi Kapps 1 11
Sig Eps 0 12

THIS WEEK’S GAMES
MONDAY NIGHT
Kappa Sig 84 Beta 53
Pika 30 Sigma Nu 35
SPE 33 Pi Kapp forfeit to Sigma Chi
Phi Gam 42 SAE 40

TUESDAY NIGHT
Kappa Sig 91 SPE 55
Phi Delt 50 SAE 46
Independent 76 ATO 44
KA 59 Pi Kapp 46

WEDNESDAY NIGHT
ATO 59 Sigma Nu 29
Kappa Sig 52 KA 27
Phi Gam 64 KA 50
Pi Kapp forfeit to Independent

THURSDAY NIGHT
Phi Delt 51 Beta 39
SAE 40 Pika 39
Pi Kapp forfeit to Phi Gam

TOP TEN I-F SCORERS FOR 1963 SEASON
Name Average
1. Charlie Marshall (KA) 17.8
2. Phil Squier (Phi Delt) 17.4
3. Stu Burness (Ind) 16.8
4. Jim Fuller (Kappa Sig) 16.2
5. George Sledge (ATO) 15.4
6. Pack Hindsley (Phi Gam) 14.8
7. Paul Duvall (ATO) 13.7
8. Arthur Clark (Sigma Nu) 13.6
9. Billy Joe Morgan (SAE) 13.3
10. Johnny Rogers (Kappa Sig) 12.4
10. Sid Tompkins (Beta) 12.4

*played in only four games

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Freshman golfers opened their season against Oak Ridge this afternoon. The frosh team was made up of Howard Covington, Doug
McKeever, Haywood Efird, Ken Childs, Stewart Cox, and Frank Gibbs.

The golf driving range will be open on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at 2:30 pm. from April 8
through the end of the semester, except on rainy days. There has been an expressed disappointment in the lack of
interest shown by students in the driving range. If student participation does not increase, the use of the range may
be discontinued in the future.

U. S. Wrestling Team To Train Under Parke
BY JOHNNY CLARK
Sports Staff Writer

Davidson will temporarily become the collegiate wrestling center of the United States on April 9 when members of the United
States wrestling team arrive on campus for a week-long training session with their team coach, Charlie Parker. Parker, who is
also Davidson's wrestling coach, reports that the team will leave Miami for Sao Paulo, Brazil, on April 17 to participate
in the Pan American Games which begin on April 20. “The United States won all eight wrestling gold medals in
the 1959 games,” relates Parker. “We are definitely favored to capture the team championship again, but I doubt that we
will match our 1959 performance.” Team members are former NCAA champ Andy Fitch of the New York Athletic Club; Bill
Riddle from Hazel Park, Mich.; former NCAA champ Ron Finley of Oregon State; Gregg Ruth of the U.S. Navy; Dennis
Fitzgerald of Michigan; James Ferguson from San Francisco; and heavyweight Joe James of Oklahoma State.

exam...pencil...paper...proctor...time...begin...Me, I think...blank...tick tick...guess...tick tick...write...tick tick...hurry...finish...time...pause...take a break...things go better with Coke

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by: Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina
