The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

BASKETBALLERS CLOSE WITH THE CITADEL (See Page Three)

VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1963 NUMBER SIXTEEN

Trustees Approve Union Expansion, Pigeonhole Oath-Evoking Oath Issue

Goodykoontz Goodbye: Epitaph For Vagabonds?

BY CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Assignments Editor

“As is the professional theatre, so is college theatre the fabulous invalid,” commented Robert J. Sailstad, chairman of the new Vagabond Governing and Planning Board this week. “People keep saying it's about to die, but the show goes on,” he smiled.

Sailstad and his board met today to discuss the future of Davidson’s invalid, left a near-corpse this week by the resignation of Dr. William F. Goodykoontz as Vagabonds director and Student Assistants Neal Bushoven and Walter Edgar. At present, the Vagabonds have no further plans after Adding Machine completes its run March 1. The board discussed ways to continue the production of dramatic events for the remainder of this semester, thinking in terms of getting various people to direct each separate function that may be planned. "The cooperation of faculty, administration, and student body will be required,” Sailstad stated. “The feeling is that a great deal has been accomplished in theatre here in a short time. We want to work from there.”

A quiet, meditative Goodykoontz, interviewed Tuesday by THE DAVIDSONIAN, was equally enthusiastic about the three-year record of the Vagabonds, citing student reaction to last week's student play, “November Requiem” by Billy Trotter, as proof that the program has been a success. And he was optimistic about the future of the dramatics program here. But looking beyond the present problems, he indicated what he thought are some necessary changes if the program is to continue to be a success.

He outlined the problems the Vagabonds have worked under in the past: inadequate support from segments of the administration and faculty; not enough student participation in staff work; too small a budget; and difficulties in scheduling the use of the Fine Arts Center, getting transportation, obtaining adequate supplies as well as maintaining the present equipment. “These are some of the problems — recurring problems,” Goodykoontz observed. “But they come from a basic attitude that while it is pleasant to have an active dramatics program it is after all an extra-curricular program, low on the list of priorities. If the problem is ever to be solved, that attitude must be changed. Drama must be recognized as integral to the liberal arts.”

Goodykoontz made clear what he feels is needed from the administration. “My hope is they will now do what should have been done long ago—clearly define what is expected from the drama program. I hope it will continue to be one designed for the whole student body and not just a small clique—and that then they will get the necessary staff to run such a program.”

Commenting on his past relationships with the administration, Goodykoontz said he had operated under the assumption that the program had its approval. “I was assured and re-assured,” he related. “I think the president was sincere in those assurances,” he added, “but he is a very busy man. And somewhere between his approval and the implementation of it, there was a gap that was never quite bridged by action.”

A constant problem of the dramatics program has been one of insufficient personnel. “I've sent out call after call for help from the students, faculty, and administration. Not enough has been forthcoming. I don’t think anyone who hasn't actively worked in the program knows how complicated it is. To put on a play requires eleven men in addition to the actors themselves.”

“There are many who could help. Mrs. D. Grier Martin for example, has had professional training. So have Mr. Sailstad and Mrs. Hampton, who is currently directing ADDING MACHINE.” As for those without training, Goodykoontz noted that the freshmen, usually a mainstay of the program, have been missing this year. “There are more upperclassmen than ever, but far fewer freshmen than in the past,” he commented.

Noting that the Vagabonds only had one full-time man working last semester, Goodykoontz stated that at least three are needed. A full-time dramatics director, a full-time technical assistant to handle the lighting and sound aspects as well as his other duties, and a full-time secretary are minimum requirements. Goodykoontz reported that the secretarial help promised him after Don Stowell quit and Mr. Lilly had to stop helping has never materialized beyond the point of an offer to set up interviews with applicants. Now that is in doubt due to his resignation.

Goodykoontz indicated that part of the reason for his resignation and (Continued On Page Four)

Group Hears Plans For Lake Norman

The faculty oath controversy which featured the latest meeting of the Davidson College Board of Trustees was referred for further study to the Trustee Education Committee and seemed little closer to being settled as the executives left the campus late Wednesday afternoon. The major portion of the final afternoon session on the second floor of Chambers was devoted to the oath problem. Faculty members W. F. Cumming, L. White, and D. D. Rhodes presented various arguments of the faculty against the oath as it now stands, while Dr. J. B. Gallent gave the affirmative view. The Trustees addressed numerous questions to the professors throughout.

Earlier President D. Grier Martin had reported the results of the recent questionnaire poll of faculty members on the subject. The poll had showed two-thirds of the faculty opposed to the oath in its present form. The questionnaire gave the dissenters no chance to express their varying opinions on how they would like to see the oath changed. Remarked Martin, “The main objection of the majority of those opposed to the oath seems to be in the manner in which it is administered (at public graduation exercises).” Both Martin and Trustee Chairman Dr. J. McDowell Richards felt that there was very little opposition to the spirit of the oath, and that the final solution would probably be a compromise in which the oath was kept in its present form but would be administered privately, as part of the hiring process.

Stanley ‘Burns’ Cigarettes, Tells Of Faking Russians

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

The pre-meds and other science students swarmed around him like flies to honey. But they, unlike flies stuck to a honey jar, were there because of their interest in the knowledge that Dr. Wendell M. Stanley could give to them in an understandable and interesting way. And like the great teacher he is at heart, our latest Reynolds Lecturer could not turn away from student questions at the several informal discussions that had been set up for him to meet our scholars. He answered every question asked him to the best of his abundant ability.

If some of his remarks made here ever get out very far, the Tampa people will love Dr. Stanley, but the tobacco folks closer to home may have a different opinion of him. He stated that he had quit smoking cigarettes because some of his scientific colleagues think that the high burning temperature of the tobacco in them produces a cancer-causing substance. He feels that the statistical evidence linking lung cancer to smoking is too great not to heed. But he did say that small cigars are the happy medium for tobacco cravers. “I even switched to them, myself,” he commented. One fellow asked Dr. Stanley if he should advise his wife to start puffing cigars. “Sure,” was the answer the noted virologist gave. A weed addict in the group of students clustered about the doctor asked him if filters did any good in aiding his health while he smoked. “I think that the only solution is to lower the burning temperature,” he answered. “But the tobacco folks say that they won't taste as good then. So there is not much chance in that.”

He made a few comments on the polio vaccine that seemed to generate a stir among the more hypochondriacal members of his audience. He announced that among the first lots of the Salk vaccine produced in this country there were some that contained a cancer-producing chemical. This vaccine was never released in this country, however. But the good part of this story should make all fanatical Red haters snicker with glee. It seems that the vaccine containing SV40 (that’s the chemical that produces cancer in the kidneys of humans, not a new miracle discovery used in some toothpaste that will prevent cavities and bad breath for a week) was released in Russia, and 20 million of our enemies got the shots. And the best part of it all is that the Russians will never find out that the wicked State Department sabotaged them with the vaccine. “I don't think their statistics are that good over there to pick it up,” Dr. Stanley commented wryly.

Dr. Stanley took time out from his technical discussions to explode the flu vaccination myth. He said that medical science first developed a successful flu vaccine in 1944. He blamed young, inexperienced doctors for the fact that the public has no confidence in it. Several students commented that Dr. Stanley is the best Reynolds Lecturer that Davidson has ever had. Some of them came from liberal arts majors. He had knowledge; a love to teach what he knew; and a sense of humor that made all of his talks, both formal and informal, very interesting.Face-lifting to the Commented Richards, “It is the primary responsibility and interest of the Trustees to maintain the college's Christian witness through its traditional connection with the Presbyterian Church. We see no reason for changing what has worked well through the years, and we would have to be convinced a change was necessary and wise before it was made. But we will certainly carefully consider the issue—it won't be closed in advance.”

The committee to which the problem has been referred will meet in the coming months with various faculty representatives. A report and possibly a proposed solution will be presented to the Trustees at their next meeting, probably in the spring.

In other business brought up before the board, President Martin announced the hiring of three new faculty members for next year: Dr. Frank Bliss, Jr., presently of St. Olaf’s (Minn.) College, will be associate professor of English. Dr. Philip Secor will be assistant professor of Political Science. A former Ford Fellow and James B. Duke Fellow, Dr. Secor will come from Dickinson College, where he is Acting Dean and Director of Religious Affairs as well as a teacher. Bliss and Secor will also assist in the second-year Humanities program. William B. Patterson, Jr., a former Rhodes Scholar, and a holder of the MA and BD degrees, is expected to receive his doctorate from Harvard this year. He will come as associate professor of History.

The trustees also learned of and approved two future improvement projects for the college community, an expansion of College Union facilities and a development of 106 acres of Lake Norman shoreline property, a recent gift of the Duke Power Company. The $250,000 Union expansion and renovation will begin in early spring with construction of a new wing which will improve and increase the size of nearly all present Union facilities. “The improvement in our Union facilities has been needed since our student body reached its planned 1000-student size. The additional building will give Davidson a Union of the first class in every respect and in keeping with other facilities on the campus.”

The lakeside development is still in very formative stages, with the college’s advisory landscape architects making preliminary plans. The “new campus” is located across Highway 21 about four miles northwest of Davidson’s main campus. The college has—to get the job done ahead of the rising water of the lake—already completed a concrete boating pier and begun development of a swimming area on the site. Immediate plans also call for swimmers’ dressing rooms and comfort stations to be completed by the beginning of the summer school session. Other possibilities being considered in the development of the lake facility include its use by the College Athletic Department to offer water sports on an intercollegiate and intramural basis, by the Science Department for biology classes, by the Fine Arts Department in its programs for art classes and (Continued On Page Four).

At this meeting, the board took action on the faculty oath, Lake Norman plans, and proposed Union expansion. The next meeting of the Trustees will be in May.

Student Council Acts To Shorten Elections

The Student Council adopted plans for next month’s student body elections this week. Several changes in the Student Council By-Laws dealing with the elections were adopted. These revisions will significantly reduce the length of time required to complete all of the voting. Under the new system inaugurated by the by-laws, there will be three stations which will punch a card to be issued to every student each time he votes in an election. The new system will therefore eliminate lengthy waiting in line. The by-laws also have been changed so that candidates for cheerleader will be nominated by the returning cheerleaders rather than the entire student body. For the first time, the Wildcat Handbook election has been included in the by-laws. It will continue to be held in the fall; the only change is that it has been given official recognition. Ideas for some of the changes came from the NSA Convention, which President Danny Carrell and John Spratt attended last summer.

Paul Duvall was chosen to head the Elections Board, which will supervise the elections. The council also picked 16 seniors to serve with Duvall on the board.

In other matters, Fred McGuirt reported that the plan to allow student parking behind the Fine Arts Building had been dropped by the Dean of Students Office. McGuirt said that the Assistant Dean of Students gave no reason for the action. The council did not discuss the matter any further because of other business. “We're not going to take this sitting down, though—that’s for sure,” Carrell exclaimed, obviously piqued at the news.

Three Davidson men are in Chapel Hill attending a mock UN Assembly. The session began on Thursday and will end this weekend. Vic Cooney, Lewis Martin, and Ben Moore are the students from Davidson. They are “representing” Portugal at the convention which is planned to give students a better idea of the workings of the UN. Colleges from the Southeast are represented. “We are eager to hear from them on the progress of the meeting,” said Spratt, who organized the Davidson delegation.

Caustic Carrell Censures Faculty's Recent Decision

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Student Body President Danny Carrell's tone in his latest DAVIDSONIAN interview left no doubt that he was more than a little angry with the results of the last faculty meeting. The specific point to which his anger is directed is the fact that the faculty merely changed the rule which allowed fraternities to have only one official function per semester and made it legal for them to have any number of official functions in a semester. Carrell had requested that the rule be abolished entirely.

Carrell said that he had requested the abolition of the rule because it was obsolete. “Why have something on the books that was ignored by students and faculty alike?” he asked. “Most fraternities only have one official function chaperoned by members of the faculty in an entire year, but they all have after-dance parties,” he pointed out. Technically, after-dance parties are illegal, but the college has thus far officially ignored them.

Carrell stated that when he made his request to the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life, he thought that they were going to have the rule abolished. He said that one member of the committee had openly agreed with him that there was no longer need for any rule whatsoever. “As it turns out,” Carrell said, “they have not changed the situation at all. The only thing that they have done is to have changed the wording of the rule.” He laughed as he added, “I don’t know what makes them think that they have accomplished anything; none of the fraternities want to hold more official functions than the old rule allowed, anyway.”

When asked the reason why the faculty changed the rule, both Dean of Students Richard C. Burts and his assistant, Gus Burgdorf, said the following words: “This (the change of the rule) came about on a request on Carrell’s part to change the rule governing the affairs (of the fraternities).” There is, of course, a very sharp difference between the meaning of the word “abolish” and the word “change.” Burgdorf also commented that the rule was not a build-up for a decision on the after-dance parties. Burts added, however, that the parties were under constant consideration and some action about them could be taken in the future.

Carrell said that he had also pressed the committee to abolish the off-campus drinking rule once again. “But they would not step down on their opinion at all about keeping this rule,” Carrell said. He indicated that he felt that it was hopeless to press the faculty any more about the drinking rule. Carrell did say, however, that he might try once again to get the faculty to completely abolish the rule about official fraternity functions. He also said that he would bring up once more at the next meeting of the Traffic Committee the matter of student parking behind the Fine Arts Center. “The last time this committee met, they promised Student Council Representatives John Spratt and Hill Wellford that they would permit limited student parking behind the Fine Arts Center,” Carrell said. That was in January; nothing has been done since then to change the parking situation. Carrell said that when he asked Burts about the matter, the dean said that he thought the matter had been dropped. “They had definitely promised to take action about the matter,” Carrell stated.