PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1963

Alumnus Gives Its Second Incunable
BY ERNIE DEPASCALE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The shelves of libraries are filled with periodicals, treating topics of all descriptions, and, if it is a good library,
a small number of incunables. Incunable? Dr. Chalmers Davidson, director of the Grey Memorial Library, says that "incunable" is a
term which refers to all books published before 1500. In the same breath, he will tell anyone that the Davidson
library has presently been given its second volume of this sort. The donor is Dr. Charles B. Sanders '22, of
Houston, Texas, whose interest in his alma mater has manifested itself into valuable contributions to the library.

The book is actually a volume of two works by separate authors published together. Both deal with the same general
topic, the jurisdiction of secular and ecclesiastical authority, and probably were published together for this reason.

One of them is Libellus de jurisdictione ecclesiastica contra Petrum de Cugnercies by Petrus Bertrand. The other work is Vita
et Processus Sancti Thomae, Cantuariensis martyris super libertate ecclesiastica by an unknown author. The second book concerns Thomas a Becket
and is basically a collection of his writings organized into a biography. A note which accompanied the book to Davidson
names the probable author as Archibald Langton. However, Dr. William P. Cumming, professor of English who has done considerable research
into the literature of the period, questions this theory. He points to the Dictionary of National Biography, which does not
list Langton as a source for the life of Thomas a Becket, as his reference to fact.

Altogether it is a valuable contribution to the library, not only because of its age and rarity but also because
of its content.

Faculty Social Committee Approves IFC Amendment
BY BILL HUFFORD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The faculty committee on Fraternity and Social Life unanimously approved the amendment to give the Interfraternity Council the enforcement of
curfew regulations, President Haynes Kelley announced at the IFC meeting Monday night. The new amendment to the IFC Constitution brings
the enforcement of curfew from the faculty committee to the IFC, giving the students the responsibility of self-enforcement. Within the
amendment, a rule forcing the individual to pay most of the fine is hoped to stop most of the violations.

During the meeting, the IFC changed Homecoming from the originally planned concert and dance to two concerts.

Council Discusses Riot, Great Issues

The Student Council discussed the recent riot, the Great Issues Program, and the election rules at its final meeting of
the year last Wednesday night. John Spratt, council president, stated that, while the Student Council did not take any action
this time, it would have to do so next fall. Spratt said that next year's freshman class would very probably
riot. He added that this last riot is a good example of where the Student Council will have to step
in and take over to prevent serious damage. "It is our job to make sure they don’t get into the
dormitories."

Walter MacDonald gave the general plans of the Great Issues Committee for 1963-64. The committee is receiving $1900 from the
college, $2000 from the YMCA, and $500 from a fund set aside for a similar committee several years ago. Nationally
known speakers will be invited to talk with interested students each Thursday night. There will be discussion groups during chapel
period on Friday mornings. The topic for the first semester is “Emerging Nations;" for the second, “Problems of the Changing
South.” In order to save money, speakers will be “shared” with other colleges in this area.

Spratt advised the council to begin making plans for election procedure changes next fall instead of waiting until spring. He
said that some changes will have to be made.

Having voted to change Homecoming, the representatives then broke into a discussion of whom to have in concert. Kelley said
that the fee of $23 per fraternity man would total roughly to $17,500, leaving about $4000 for the big weekends
and $2900 for the concert weekends. Kelley listed the groups within the IFC's price range and asked the representatives to
bring back to Monday's meeting their fraternities’ wishes. The IFC will definitely decide Monday night as to whom they want
for Homecoming, leaving only the problem of contracts to be signed.

Article X, as passed, includes the following provisions: “The campus security officer will report the name of the individual violator,
the fraternity involved, and the circumstances to the Fraternity Liaison Officer. The Fraternity Liaison Officer will then channel the violation
for disciplinary action to the Interfraternity Council Fraternity court, including the fraternity houses and grounds but excluding cars parked in
regular parking areas thereabout, shall be vacated by all girls by midnight of every night of the week with the
following exceptions: On Saturday night, the court shall be vacated by all girls at 1:30 a.m. On dance weekends, the
court shall be vacated by all girls by 3 a.m. Sunday. On special occasions when the Dean of Students has
extended the curfews. When girls are in a fraternity house, it is necessary that at least two couples be present.
Fraternities will incur fines as follows: $25 per couple for violation of curfew hours, $25 per couple in violation of
the “two couples” rule. Although the curfew and “two couple” requirements are separate, violations of both rules by one couple
will not result in penalties under both rules. Each member fraternity consents to incorporate into its bylaws the provisions that
an individual shall personally incur the fine to the extent of at least $15.”

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
The Charlotte, N. C. Hub Now
Bus Station and Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

Tastee for:
VISIT THE Kreeze In Cornelius
MILK SHAKES
HAMBURGERS
CHEESEBURGERS
CONES
FRENCH FRIES
HOT DOGS

Library Hours:
8 p.m. - 9 p.m. Sun., June 2, 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. — Luncheon, Chambers Dining Hall
3:45 p.m. — Academic Processional
4 p.m. — Graduation, Chambers lawn

Edmunds White, associate director of admissions, announced that of 950 completed applications, 380 were accepted; and that of that number
230 applicants have returned tuition deposits. There are 35 applicants on a waiting list, and from these seven will be
chosen to complement the class. The number of completed applications represents a drop from last year's total, but White feels
this decrease to be due to the failure of unqualified students to apply.

The Class of '67 represents 28 states and Japan, the largest geographical spread yet. Eighty percent are from the South,
while 13 percent represent the Middle Atlantic and New England states. Seven percent are from the Midwest.

Baptist Students Plan To Organize

Maj. David R. Hampton, of the ROTC Department, in collaboration with Rev. Quentin M. Perreault of the Department of Student
Work of the Baptist State Convention, has agreed to act as campus organizer for a planned Baptist Student Union here.
The 191 Baptist students at Davidson are the third largest denominational group here, yet have no specific organization as of
now.its material to the Presbyterians and the Methodists. “Even though this is a religious college, Baptist students need some organization,"
Hampton said.

A survey was distributed to all Baptist students in an effort to determine interest and ideas for the group's meetings
and activities. The actual activation of the group would not take place until next school year and definite plans would
be laid this summer. Hampton emphasized that the plans are still uncertain. “We are still trying to determine the best
approach, where we will meet, and whether a local church will sponsor the group at this time.” Hampton stated that
the method used to determine student interest proposes to find out how to best serve students and to maintain their
interest. Any students who have not yet returned the questionnaire are urged to do so.

Pheifer Will Give Last Vespers Talk

The vespers speaker for this Sunday night is the Rev. Kenneth G. Pheifer, DD, of the Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary,
in the last service of this school year. A native of Louisburg, Tenn., Pheifer is a graduate of Center College
and Louisville Seminary. He also attended Vanderbilt University and holds honorary degrees from Center and from Hampden-Sydney College. He has
held pastorates in Franklin, Tenn.; Rock Hill, S.C.; and Alexandria, Va.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
- Burts
- Lilly
- Scott
- Daggy
- Lloyd
- Stroud
- Driesell
- MacCormack
- Gable
- Martin, J. G.
- Tucker
- Griffin
- Polley
- White, L.
- Kelton
- Richey
- Williams

Summer Storage

Jackson Cleaners will clean and store your clothes again this summer. Bring them in now and avoid the exam rush.
Across from Gulf Station — Main Street.

COMMENCEMENT 1963

4 p.m. — ROTC Commissioning, Chambers lawn
Male Chorus Concert, Hodson Hall
Reception, Pres. D. Grier Martin's home, for seniors and their families
Baccalaureate Service, Davidson Presbyterian Church

Admissions Office Gives Facts On Class Of ‘67

BY TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The admissions office has announced statistics on the class of 1967, which will be the first class whose members may
receive advanced placement on the basis of the College Board tests to be given in May. White stated that the
increase was most notable in Pennsylvania, which will be represented by nine freshmen, and New Jersey, the home of eight.
Scholastically, the Class of ’67 will rank as high as or higher than the Class of ‘66. The Scholastic Aptitude
Test scores average will be approximately the same. “Six winners of National Merit Scholarships plan to enter Davidson next fall,"
White stated. “Since in the previous seven years of the National Merit Scholarship Program Davidson has had but 22 winners
enroll, this is quite a record.”

The Class of 1967 is unique in two ways. First, it is the first class whose members may receive advanced
placement on the basis of the College Board tests to be given in May. Second, White emphasized, “This is the
last class entering Davidson which will not have been required to take the College Board Achievement Tests in three subjects.
As we realized that 60 percent of the applicants had taken the tests anyhow, the faculty voted to require any
three.”

WORK PROGRESSES ON THE EXPANSION of the College Union building, due for completion before the next academic year begins. The
wing will enlarge existing Union recreational facilities and the student store and eventually provide space for expanded dining facilities at
a cost of about $125,000. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

GRAND PRIX 50 WINNER'S CIRCLE

George P. Keapp - West Virginia U.
Richard W. Berger - U. of New Hampshire
Coming next fall...a new EM
Tempest Winners... Final Lap!
Williams W. Seegars - U. of South Carolina
Joseph L. Pap - Oklahoma State
Vernelle Gaily - U. of S.W. Louisiana
Larry W. Foster - Alec R. Bebrew - RPE. Millikin UL
Linda L. Mercea - Bucknell
Caeren J. Hart - South Dakota Tech.
David G. Taylor - Lamar St. Col. of Tech.
Sey C. Creenweed - Sacramento State
Neal I. D'Agostino - Cornell
Vincent Plerdemioicl, Jr. - Lowell Tech.
George C. Anderson - Williams
Bruce T. Gaire - Vanderbilt U.
Aravid J. Heschio, Jr. - U. of Kentucky
Eltreda M. Lebbia - Indiana State
Cecil T. Ewing - U. of North Dakota
Lee R. Hoffman - U. of Connecticut
Kent State

GRAND PRIX 50 for 1963-64!

Add your name to this growing circle of winners!

Final Lap Consolation Prize Winners!
Tempest Winners...Laps 1, 2, 3!
Couls J. Lobsinger - U. of Detroit
Stanley J. Foust - U. of Oklahoma
John C. Lavery - U. of Kansas
James W. Todd - Gonzaga U.
Roger E. Gorlicki - DePaul U.
Judson K. Farnsworth - Northeastern U.
Linda Ivancevich - San Jose State
Ashton B. Burke - U. of Kentucky
Roger A. Kueter - Boston College
Gary L. Lewis - U. of San Fran.
W. T. Oliver - Lafayette College
Stuart Strenger - Georgia State
Raymond T. Joyce, Jr. - Bryant College
Cheryl A. Moore - Portland State
Roger P. Blacker - Colgate (Fac.)
Carl F. Brown - Loras College
John V. Erhart - St. Bonaventure U.
John N. Slerer - The Citadel
Col. S. R. Gardner - VMI.
Byron O. Groff - Penn State
Edward S. Wassed - Clarkson College
William P. Marts - Kent State
V. M. McManamen - RCA Victor's
O. G. MacRitchie - DeVry Tech. Inst.
Morris S. Boyer - U. of Michigan
Les Bassett - U. of Georgia
Emory U.
H. H. Andersen - Okla. State (Fac.)
J. U. Millard, Jr. - Ft. Hays State
C. J. Tamalivick - Worcester Poly (Staff)
Richard L. Smith - U. of Michigan
David E. Utley - San Diego State
S. O. Gallegos - U. of New Mexico
R. Montgomery, Jr. - Portland State
R. I. Salberg, Jr. - Texas Tech.
W.T.G. Rosenla - U. of California
S. P.S. Helder, Jr. - Kansas State
Michael B. Reed - St. Mary's U.
Brian F. Goodrich - Ursinus College
Hubert F. Tett - St. U. of N.Y. (Albany)
Baxter Myers, Jr. - Iowa State
Sylvan Gordan - Cal. State Poly
Billy O. Farris - Stephen F. Austin State
Sam Houston State
George F. Smith - San Jose State
William L. Bradley - Louisiana State
Rev. John Thompson - Gannon College (Fac.)
Charles Perry, Jr. - Providence College
Richard Friedlander - C.C.N.Y.
John M. Mulcahy - Duquesne
Rochelle Tandy - U. of Connecticut
James W. Mize - Pembroke College
Michael J. Kepche - U. of Texas

Get with the winners... Filter's Cigarettes and Myers Tobacco to far ahead in smoking satisfaction!
