The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BILL HAGEN Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

EP WILLER Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1963

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Faculty Oath...

Although there is considerable doubt as to what role a student paper ought to play in such matters, some other newspapers in the area have seen fit to pronounce upon the faculty oath, and THE DAVIDSONIAN thus feels drawn to make its own position known even though the decision to be made is not ours. The fact that all full professors at Davidson must ascribe to a solidly Protestant oath may seem deceptively unimportant to students. Nonetheless, it tremendously influences the type of education we receive by keeping the faculty pretty well within the Presbyterian camp.

No one questions the right of the college to require this oath of its faculty. Indeed, it seems quite reasonable that a Church-related college should do so. For in one sense, Christian education can be interpreted as meaning education at the hands of Christians. By the same token, the college might also require each of its students to sign such an oath, even as it now requires certain religious exercises of its students. This seems to be a perfectly logical way to establish a “Christian context” for education at Davidson.

But what happens to liberal education under this system? First of all, many qualified professors balk at submitting to this oath, either because they do not believe in what it says, or because they simply do not believe in oaths. This increases the difficulties in acquiring and keeping a reputable faculty at Davidson. Another disadvantage is that the oath underscores Davidson's notorious homogeneity. The only thing ruts grow is deeper, and the Davidson rut is often more than skin-deep. Our present faculty is by no means failing to present a variety of ideas, but these random ideas do not sting like beliefs, nor do they always receive fair treatment at the hands of men who do not accept them. These ideas which are sometimes neglected, are often extremely influential in the world surrounding Davidson. The social sciences and psychology in particular have tremendously influenced our modern society, but they have very often strayed very far indeed from Protestant paths.

We therefore feel that education at Davidson has severe academic as well as intellectual handicaps imposed on it by the faculty oath. But one may rightly ask if Davidson’s Christian context for education would suffer from the diversity implied in the proposed removal of the faculty oath. We must reply that after four years of uninterrupted partaking, even the salt of the earth has become insipid. Furthermore, Davidson students do not always appear to be noticeably more Christian than students from institutions without faculty oaths. No swarm of heterogenes of every form and deformity of human conviction is anticipated here. But we do feel that the introduction of a few qualified professors of more varied persuasions may act as a catalyst, not a cataclysm. As students, we can afford to be jarred and to grapple with intruding ideas. Indeed, we often expect this, considering it an essential part of our education. In the end, we think that we become stronger, more sincere, and more sensitive from having had to exercise our heavy-laden brains.

Our education is very much involved in the decision made concerning the faculty oath. We appreciate the goal which Davidson has set for herself, a liberal education within a Christian context. It seems to us that we are more likely to reach that goal without the faculty oath than with it. That Davidson College aspires to give a liberal education is commendable; that she attempts to fit this education into any context whatsoever is even more commendable; that she attempts to fit this into a specifically Christian context is extraordinarily rare in our secularized age. We commend the Administration, the Faculty, and the Trustees for their concern, for their setting such a goal and working towards it. We hope that we can approach that goal together.

JKA

Revelation

Several students were handed typed questions when they walked into chapel Monday. These questions were planted by that vague creature, the Administration, to fill in the question-period which followed the brief address. The speaker was from India; the questions were about India. We are inclined to think that the planting of such questions reveals a regrettable attitude on the part of someone or someones in the Administration towards student interest and curiosity in the affairs of India and the modern world in general. Students were not contacted and requested to think up questions even, and the distributed questions touched on such time-worn subjects as the caste system and holy cows. They were more appropriate for a junior high audience than a Davidson College student assembly. This reveals an even more regrettable attitude on the part of someone towards student capabilities to ask intelligent and relevant questions as well as a very low opinion indeed of student ignorance of the international situation. But perhaps it reveals more than student ignorance.

JKA

Revealing Reviews

For a few paragraphs we were almost ready to commend Dean Burts’ wisdom regarding make-up review policies as expressed through his article in last week's DAVIDSONIAN. Almost. But then he attempted to justify a recent Executive Committee decision which turned down a student’s plea for relief from a three-in-one-day schedule. First we hit a slow burn. Reading further we were outraged. By the time we finished, exasperation had set in to such an extent that we were at a loss as to whether to reject the Dean’s arguments altogether, or to take them apart piecemeal! The problem is not what to say, but where to start.

Davidson College exists to educate its students. Yet it is a particularly sadistic college which presses for superior academic achievement in a competitive atmosphere on the one hand, and then on the other allows its system to impose greater than average pressures upon certain unfortunates. This is precisely what is happening. We strongly differ with the Dean’s statement that “the occurrence of three-in-a-day is a very infrequent occurrence and is not a large problem in the career of any individual student in Davidson.” One bad set of reviews can be a very large problem indeed. More than once at Davidson a student has been confronted with a total of fifteen reviews in a semester while his competitor for class standing has faced only six or seven. But that’s the breaks. Of necessity, that’s the way the system works. We're cocky enough to believe that, given a fair opportunity, this is a situation which “can be met by the caliber of student in Davidson College today.” Yet without this opportunity, without an Executive Committee recognition of a responsibility to coordinate students and faculty in order to promote as fair a testing situation as possible, there will continue to be unnecessary inadequacies in our grading system.

JIMW

Staff

Associate Editor Knox Abernethy

Editorial Assistant Jim Williams

Assistant Editor Bill Ruth

Managing Editors David Stitt Jeff Wampler

Sports Editor Bill Pridgen

Assignments Editor Charles Ramberg

Feature Editor Tom Loflin

News Editor Charles Dibble

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Assistant News Editor Jimmy Downey

Photographers Joe McCutchen Buck Lawrimore

Cartoonists Dan Adams Joe Howell Walter MacDonald Rufus Hallmark

Advertising Manager Charlie Smith

Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane

Assistant Bus. Manager Rick Finch

Midwinters Present By Hallmark

Carrell Justifies Council's '63-'64 Schedule Proposal

Spirit Conducts Dean On Midwinters Review

A camera crew was busy shooting the uncensored scenes of the

BY DAVE PUSEY Davidsonian Feature Writer

‘Twas the night before Midwinters, And all through the dorms Were boys sweetly dreaming Of feminine forms.

Dean Burts was pooped. It was Thursday night, and tomorrow the girls would be coming in by the hundreds for Midwinters weekend. Oh, the problems, the agony of it all. The final straw today had been that senior who asked him if he needed anything from the ABC store. Why couldn't there be something else a little easier to handle than these dance weekends—like three Black Plague epidemics a year. But he soothed himself by reading his favorite dance weekend fairy tale, The Fraternity Presidents’ Pledge, and, ready at last for a few hours of repose, he checked his wardrobe valet for his next day’s outfit: “Shirt, suit, socks, tie, ropes. Everything.” Satisfied, he crawled into his Sigma Chi nightshirt, bounded into bed, and in no time was making like a chain saw.

As the clock sounded two a.m., the good dean suddenly awoke with a shudder. Near the bed hovered a ghostly apparition, obviously from Davidson College as indicated by his madras garters and the laundry number on his navel. “Hi there,” said the ghost. “Aaarrgh...” said Mr. B. “Come, come now. Don't be afraid,” soothed the school spirit. “I just thought that maybe I could help you out with your dance weekend complex by showing you just what really goes on. I'm Ferrante, the Ghost of Midwinters Present. How would you like a trip to Ferrante’s Inferno?” “Tremendous!” Richard rejoiced. “Ferrante’s Inferno, where experience is the best Teicher.” “Forget the wit, would you please? Just grab your clothes.”

As they streaked through the winter air en route to their Ferrante rendezvous, the ghastly Ferrante explained what they were going to do. “We'll just follow a dance weekend through: from beginning to end, and you'll be able to get a Burts-eye view. How about that?” Burts just shivered. He'd forgotten his pants.

Suddenly, the dean found himself at the bus station in Charlotte. Ferrante pointed out a Davidsonian in the lobby. “He's waiting for a blind date,” chuckled the knowing gnome fiendishly. Sure enough, the lad cautiously approached three females as they got off their bus. Two of them slapped him themselves, but the third left the driving to her husband who was waiting for her. Undismayed, the collegian moved again. This one smiled—it was her!

Suddenly the scene changed, Burts finding himself outside a big building with columns, surmounted by two chambermaids and a frying pan. “It’s Chambers. But what are all those kids doing coming out of there at this hour?” demanded our dean. Replied his ghostly guide, “Simple, bwana dean. They're coming out of a concert by Stanley Rube and his Tigertorn Five. They’ve moved up from the funeral circuit this year. Tomorrow...Night there’s a concert by No-sweata, famous folk singer and deodorant ad model. But now to the best part of the evening." And thence to an after-party where the Greeks were throwing the wildest party since the neigh of the Trojan Horse. The band was the Hot Notes, and Bob Ivey was taping a “From Davidson” interview with band sax player H. Edmunds Mulligan concerning the prospects of high school students getting in with his band of swingers next year. Foreign export version of “Sodom and Gomorrah.” Then followed a quick glimpse for Burts of the next weekend scene, that of a student taking his second of three reviews which the faculty had conveniently scheduled for Saturday morning. Burts peered surreptitiously over one boy’s shoulder. “But that’s not a test! It’s a transfer application to the U. of Alabama,” protested the distraught dean. Ferrante sighed. “We lose more fellows from the Inferno that way.” After watching the boys splurge on Saturday night supper at MacDonald’s and then go through another night similar to the one before, the dean suddenly found himself ensconced once again in the Burts’ boudoir. “Well, old boy, I hope you've learned that you're not the only one who suffers a strain on these dance weekends. I've got to run up to W&L now on a special assignment.” He winked and was gone. But he’ll be back. Next Friday morning at 10:20 in the Dean's Office. You see, Pop Linker had put on his Go-Ghost-mobile a parking ticket, and not even good spirits can talk their way out of those. Yet we could hear him exclaim as he drove out of sight, ‘Merry Midwinters to all, and to all a good-night!”

Does Our Education Sell Reality Short?
BY BILL FERRIS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The question I raise in this article is whether Davidson is accepting its responsibility as a community of learning. An education should bring a fuller participation in the problems of life rather than an escape from them. Our studies here in the arts and sciences are not reaching beyond the classroom walls into the seething mass of problems outside. The problems facing our generation are ultimate questions which demand concern and involvement. Race relations, the nuclear dilemma, and religion are a few of the issues strangling our times with which man seems helpless to deal. For most of us at Davidson, such concerns are secondary to our class work. We sense an involvement in the confusion of our times, but are unable to reach beyond the shelters built around us in our campus life. Involvement in our times demands that each of us as individuals face the issues of life and respond to them. Our response can be as rebellion, criticism, or acceptance; but we must respond. How many students and professors are willing to express their opinions on the issues around us? You can count them all on the fingers of one hand. What is our position on racial discrimination in the town of Davidson; on the three Presbyterian churches split by race and class which serve a town of 1500 people? To remain quiet on issues like these is to shirk the responsibilities our education places upon us. We claim to seek the “truth” within these walls, but cannot show it in our lives. Truth can only be understood in terms of action; it is unreal apart from the flesh of life. The truth to which we pay lip service here at Davidson has no such meaning for us. How can we call Davidson a Christian institution or a center of learning when religion and study are sealed tight behind our brick walls? Our education offers us the tools to work with in life; to let these tools grow rusty in a stale classroom while life rages about us is wrong. If our education isn’t used outside the classroom it becomes sterile, impotent, meaningless. My plea is that we at Davidson use our learning to speak forth on the issues before us. Speak for or against them, but speak!

BY DANNY CARRELL
Student Body President

The editorial in last week's DAVIDSONIAN entitled “Alteration, Without Representation” would have been more appropriately called “Altercation Without Justification.” The writer criticizes the suggestion made by the Student Council to change the 1963-64 school calendar. He implies that the Council made a formal request to the Academic Scheduling Committee. He says that if the Thanksgiving-Christmas stretch is extended, “many” Davidson students would lose money that could be made from Christmas jobs, and he points out that the Christmas holidays afford many out-of-state students the “only opportunity during the school year for a decent vacation at home.” Moreover, he criticizes the Council’s failure to sound out the opinion of the student body. The editorial needs to be clarified. The schedule for next year was submitted to the Student Council some time ago, and there were no objections. At a later meeting, one of the Council members pointed out that there would be only two weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas. He suggested the possibility of lengthening this period and increasing the post-exam break. I drew up a possible alternative and presented it to Dr. J. T. Drake, Chairman of the Scheduling Committee. He readily agreed to submit to his committee any proposal which the Council might have. I then found out that if any action was to be taken, it would have to be taken right away because the faculty meeting this past Tuesday was to be the last one before the new catalogue would be sent to the printers. Although the Council can be criticized for not recognizing soon enough certain problems in connection with the ‘63-64 schedule, it cannot be criticized for its failure to sound out the feelings of the students before it submitted its suggestion for a change. There simply was not enough time to do so. I submitted my plan to the Council for any changes it wished to make. Two informal votes were taken. A majority favored some sort of change—the vote was 17-5. A separate vote was taken among the underclassmen only—this time the count was 9-2. The final plan of those who favored the change was to extend the Thanksgiving-Christmas period by four class days. The last day of classes would then be on a Saturday, and exams would not begin until the following Tuesday. The post-exam break would be extended three days. No motion was ever made. There was no formal request sent to Dr. Drake. I merely informed him that we had taken two informal votes and gave him the results. I emphasized that these votes only reflected the opinion of a small group of students but that it was acting in a representative capacity. I should hope that anytime before a Council member votes, he has considered what he believes to be the opinion of the majority of students. I further explained to Dr. Drake that we, along with him, realized that there were objections that could be raised against either alternative. The main fault with the '63-64 schedule is the short time between Thanksgiving and Christmas. The major weakness of the Council’s proposed change was the relatively short time between the end of Christmas vacation and the beginning of exams. The Council considered the matter of Christmas jobs and felt that this affected only a small minority of students and that these students would not necessarily be getting home any later than students from many other schools—only about the same time. The editorial’s mention of students who live quite far away from Davidson without a doubt refers to a small percentage of students. In spite of the Council's suggestion, the schedule will not be changed. A basketball game has already been scheduled which would be played during the exam period if the proposed change were realized. I am glad, however, that some controversy arose this year. Next year, polls can be taken among both students and faculty members, and perhaps certain alterations will appear feasible. Dr. Drake and his committee have been most cooperative in trying to work out a schedule suitable to the students. There is no perfect schedule that can be drawn up, but I am sure that the one which will be in effect next year will be adequate even without incorporating the change suggested by the Student Council.

Stanford Drops Grading System
Palo Alto, Calif. — (AP) — Following a lengthy study of grading practices by the Registrar’s Advisory Committee, the Stanford University Academic Council has voted to change the designation of a “C” grade from “fair” to “satisfactory” and the description of a “D” from “barely passed” to “minimum credit.” The change reflects both the rising caliber of Stanford students and the faculty committee’s belief that the present grading system for undergraduates should be maintained. Parents of freshmen at Stanford—in common with those who have sons and daughters enrolled at other leading institutions—need more information about these developments to understand their youngsters’ report cards. As the Registrar's Advisory Committee report puts it: “Grading is a relative rather than an absolute process... Although the Stanford student body is now superior to the student body of a decade ago, the all-university grade-point average has not risen. What this indicates is that our grading system does not and perhaps cannot measure absolute standards of achievement; rather, what the grading system does is to compare students of the present student body with each other.” The Committee recommended that letters explaining the grading system be sent to freshman parents before school starts in the autumn and again at the end of the fall quarter. The Committee recommended the following description of the grading system: “Traditionally, at Stanford, the suggested distribution of passing grades has been: A, excellent, approximately 15 per cent; B, good, approximately 35 per cent; C, satisfactory, approximately 35 per cent; D, minimum credit, and F, approximately 15 per cent. Some people may feel that present grading standards here are too strict, the Committee reported, but “the facts are that fewer than two per cent of all freshmen are suspended or disqualified for scholastic reasons, although an additional seven per cent may withdraw voluntarily at the end of their first year for a complex of reasons, of which failure to achieve expectations is sometimes one component.”