_ FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sports Scene
BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

THE EASY WAY OUT

I was going to write an article this week about intramural athletics at Davidson. I was going to suggest that perhaps the new I.M.A.C. (Intermural Athletic Council) could plan next year’s intramural schedule as much as possible this year and in this way arrange the general outline of next year’s program. Then I got a letter in the mail. I think it should have gone to the head of the I.M.A.C. but I opened it by mistake, so I thought I'd just save a lot of trouble and print it.

A LETTER

Dear I.M.A.C.,

I just heard where they elected a new group of I.M.A.C. representatives the other day so I thought I'd drop you all a little note with some advice. First I hope you can keep up the good work of the council you are about to replace. Now I’ve never really liked intramurals, but when I came here four years ago the students used to really take an interest in them. I’ve been happy to see that in the last few years this interest has dropped off to practically nothing. Everyone knows that the reason we come to college is to study and learn and yet I can remember when four hundred people watched a flickerball game all — (who knows how many q.p.’s were lost that day). I'm glad this kind of nonsense has finally come to an end, but I want to warn you to beware of a rebirth of this wasteful enthusiasm.

I know you new members of the council have carefully observed the way this year’s interfraternity program was run, but I'd like to point out some specific examples of the ways in which you too can discourage intramural sports. The most important thing to remember in discouraging intramurals is do not plan ahead. If no one knows when an event will take place, how can they get excited about it? Remember the track meet? The wrestling match? The swimming meet? All of these events were admirably handled in this fashion. Besides, if you don’t plan ahead, it saves all the trouble of finding out when the gym will be open or the track free in making up a schedule.

Another important thing is to try to shroud the whole workings of the I.M.A.C. from as many people as possible. Since the only fraternity to know what the overall intramural trophy looks like or how to win it is the Phi Delta Thetas, who cares? But don’t stop here—any effort at obscuring I.M.A.C. procedure is usually an effective method of ruining intramurals. If the members of your council have as much imagination as the past council, I’m sure they can come up with their own methods for ruining an intramural sport. But it never hurt anyone to learn a few old ways of doing something. Take basketball.

Intramural basketball used to attract large crowds every night during the week, but through hard work this situation has been eliminated. Look how pitiful it was this year. It is very simple to kill a big sport like that. Just remember—take the time of the year when basketball starts and then delay the start of the season for a month, then delay it for Thanksgiving, then delay it for Christmas, then for exams, and then spread it out over another month, and by the end of the season no one will care if it ever ends. If you keep it up next year, the season can be extended so that a further delay can be arranged for spring recess.

Of course if you have enough courage, you can just lose a sport. Handball, you know, is lost. Last time anybody heard of it, the handball players were still playing, but even they were uncertain as to where the ball had gone. Now I know you can’t lose a sport like handball often, but if you’re careful, you might hide the volleyball while no one is looking this year.

I’m sorry that this little note got so long, but my glee carried me away. I also know some of you are going to come into this job as representative, gung-ho, but what's the use? We know no one really likes intramurals, that is, nobody but the jocks. Besides, it's a bad influence on the intellectual atmosphere of our college. So I think you can see it will be simpler and really better to discourage rather than promote intramurals. Therefore I extend the best wishes of all the members of The Put Down the Jocks—For the College That Stays Together, Prays (not plays) — Clubs in discouraging intramurals at Davidson this year. I know you can do it.

Best Wishes,
A Friend

Perhaps A Friend is a little generous with his praise of last year's I.M.A.C., but intramurals have declined both in disinterest and interest in the past years. The answers for this decline may be, as many people suggest, in the admissions department of the college.

DICK SNYDER

BY FORREST ROLES
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Last week was the most successful stand the 'Cats have had this year, as they split with two very tough clubs. The most impressive win was last Tuesday's shellacking of last year’s NAIA champions, Georgia Southern. Next Tuesday Davidson's rejuvenated baseball team starts on its final road trip visiting Belmont Abbey. The ‘Cats finished a long home stand today with a double-header against The Citadel.

Thursday week, Coach Tom Stevens’ squad split two games with Furman on the Paladins' home grounds. In the first game sophomore Lefthander Dave Johnson limited Furman to one unearned run on only six hits and the team won its first conference game 4-1. In the second game sophomore Paul Briggs lost a tough decision 4-3 in extra innings. Rick Smyre led the team in hitting for the day, as he drove in two important runs in the first game, and scored the tying run in the second after tripling to deep right center field.

Monday and Tuesday powerful Georgia Southern, owning victories over Wake Forest and North Carolina, visited here for two single games. Monday, Southern’s most effective pitcher, Pierce Blanchard set down the 'Cats on six hits. Davidson, victimized by some horrible lapses in the field, committed ten errors, which gave the visitors six of their seven runs. “I'll never play another

D Club Chooses Snyder Outstanding Frosh Athlete

Tennis Team Knocks Over State Wolfpack

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Davidsonian Sports Writer

With two victories fresh under their belts, including a win over Atlantic Coast Conference member N.C. State, the Davidson College Tennis team left last night to travel to Virginia to play at Blacksburg tomorrow. The ’Cat netmen hope to even their conference record and their overall mark on the Virginia trip; the Wildcats now stand 1-3 in the conference and 8-10 for the season.

On Monday the netters squeezed past N.C. State 4-3. Winning for the locals were Bobby Austell, Johnny Ariail and Bill Backlund; Bill Shutt joined Austell to capture the number one doubles match. The other doubles matches were called in the third set because of darkness.

The fuzzballers traveled to Guilford College on Wednesday and brought home a 5-2 victory. Senior Captain Austell, along with Frank Bumgardner, Backlund, and Ariail captured singles victories. Shutt and Backlund combined to take the number one doubles. Next week the 'Cat netmen will host Wake Forest College on Tuesday and Appalachian on Thursday in two non-conference matches.BY RICH DOUD
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Baseballers Manage Split With Highly-Touted Georgia Southern

"We'll never play a game on the Monday following a dance weekend," vowed Coach Stevens. The ‘Cats must have been more rested Tuesday, as they struck back to down Southern 13-4. It was the best offensive day Davidson batters have had all season as they spread 11 hits among seven players. Tom Whitley, though hampered by a pulled muscle, led the attack with three well-timed hits. Rick Smyre continued his torrid hitting (.533 in the last four games) with a single and a double in four trips. Davidson starter Paul Briggs went all the way, giving up eight hits and but two earned runs. After the fifth inning, he was never in serious trouble, not allowing a single opponent to reach second. It was his first victory in three decisions.

On the basis of ability and versatility, freshman Dick Snyder was chosen Freshman Athlete of the Year by the D Club on April 19 at its annual Spring Foolies. Snyder follows Don Davidson, Ben Coxton, and Jim Hamilton as recipients of this coveted award and was selected by a near-unanimous vote. The 6'5" freshman from North Canton, Ohio began his Davidson athletic career by breaking a three-year-old record for total points on the physical proficiency test by an impressive eighty-five points. Snyder, on a full scholarship, led the frosh basketball squad to a winning season and hopes to figure prominently in next year’s varsity plans. Presently, he is playing a dual role as a starting moundsman for the baseball nine and as a broad jumper for the track team. Dick's personal ambition parallels that of All-American hoopster Rod Thorn—a professional baseball career, “if I'm good enough.” The recognition he received in high school for his grid feats overshadowed most of his baseball and basketball accomplishments, which resulted in his receiving fewer scholarship offers for the latter two sports.

Dick came to Davidson partially as a result of the scholarship offer. His primary desire was to play basketball, and he knew of the academic quality of the school. First contacted by Coach Hunt and later, Coach Driesell, Dick made a visit to the campus, was impressed with what he saw and who he met, and inked his present scholarship agreement. Since coming to school, he has chosen business for his field of study and would like to attend graduate school for a year. This summer he will work either on a state road crew or for a construction company. The remainder of his time will be spent practicing basketball, playing on a city baseball team, and—he says with a half-apologetic, half-anxious smile—dating.

But a larger share of the blame must be assumed by the I.M.A.C.’s that were in charge for the past few years. I hope that the new I.M.A.C. will plan ahead, provide information, and try to organize the various events in such a manner that the students and the members of the I.M.A.C. will enjoy playing in them.

DANIA RESTAURANT
HIGHWAY 29
CONCORD, N. C.

WEDNESDAY NIGHTS: Golden Fried Chicken (1/2) $1.50
FRIDAY NIGHTS: “All the Fish You Can Eat”
SAT. NIGHTS: Buffet Supper American-Continental Foods 6:00-9:00 P.M. $2.50
Open 6 A.M.-9 P.M. Closed Mondays

The council also announced plans to sponsor a golf tournament this year to replace tennis, which has been dropped as an interfraternity sport. According to current plans, each fraternity may enter four players to play two eighteen-hole rounds. The best three scores will be tabulated. The tournament is slated to begin April 29th. The council announced further that due to time limitations, volleyball will be played this year as a double-elimination tournament. A tentative starting date is May 13th or immediately following the current softball season. The softball schedule has been about half completed, and barring additional rainouts, should end on Friday, May 10. This would allow a little more than a week for the volleyball tournament prior to the beginning of exams.

Sammy Going To Preside Over Next Year's IMAC

Following its meeting earlier this week, the IMAC revealed its slate of officers for the coming year: President, Sammy Going (Phi Gam), Vice President, Mike Thurman (Phi Delt), and Buddy Dubose, Secretary (Kappa Sig). Going will be a senior. Thurman and Dubose are rising juniors.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON’S LEADING HITTER, LANCE WALKER, surveys the action as he awaits his turn at the plate. (Staff Photo by Raynal)

‘Cat Relays Saturday Lone Campus Attraction

Saturday will mark the third annual Davidson Relays, scheduled to get underway at 2 p.m. Among those competing will be Lenoir Rhyne, Atlantic Christian, Washington and Lee, Catawba, and High Point. After a week of mixed emotions, the ‘Cats can look forward to some more stiff competition in several events.

BY BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Last week saw Coach Whittle’s athletes first sweep the three-way meet held Friday with Richmond and Appalachian and then lose to a well-balanced VPI team on Wednesday afternoon. In the former, the Wildcats took a first in the 100-yd dash, 220-yd. dash, the 440, 880, three mile, broad jump, high jump, and pole vault. Heffner, Barrow, Martin, and Phillips took the first four places in the mile; Reese, Phillips, and Leslie swept the 880. Only a disqualification for stepping out of the lane kept Davidson from taking the mile relay. Going into the final turn of that event, Richmond's anchor man, leading at the time, was forced to drop out with a pulled muscle. In the 100-yd. dash, Cordle barely beat out Turner, marking the first time this year that Turner failed to lead the Davidson entries. Fraser won the high jump at 6'2" and barely missed setting a school record; he cleared 6'4", good for the record, on his fourth attempt.

Last Wednesday the ‘Cats encountered some stiffer competition in VPI and dropped the meet by a twenty-four point margin. Turner took the hundred at 10.2 and the 220 at 22.7. He broke stride in the 330-yd. intermediate hurdles and dropped out. Kelly narrowly took second in the 440, while other Davidson entrants placed first in the 3 mile, the broad jump, pole vault, and high jump. In winning the mile, Simpson of VPI made an attempt at the track record but fell considerably short, finishing with his best time in the event at 4'22”.

On the first time he had ever entered the event, Dick Snyder took first in the freshman hop, step, and jump competition with a highly creditable 43'5". He coupled this with a winning broad jump effort to lead the freshman track team with 10 meet points. Despite this performance by the freshman basketballer and baseballer, the baby trackmen were defeated by VPI.

STERLING MARTIN STRAINS as he shows the form he used Wednesday against V.P.I. when he broke his own 3 mile record by 20 seconds with a time of 15:24.2. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

exam...pencil...paper...proctor...time...begin...think...blank...tick tick...guess...tick tick...write...tick tick...hurry...finish...time...pause...take a break...things go better with Coke

Demand vaded under the author o The Coca-Cola Company