Che Dauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BILL HAGEN
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

EP WILLER
Business Manager

FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1963

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A Goal Of Self-Criticism

We await with some eagerness the publication of the report of the faculty-trustee committee on the aims of Davidson College.
In anticipation of it, we would like to make a few observations of our own.

Davidson, we think, is sincerely trying to define its aims and move toward them. In the academic world, Davidson aspires
to be rated among the finest small colleges of the country. In the religious realm, the college seeks to instill
an intelligent Christian faith in its students. We also hear that Davidson hopes to educate the “whole man.”

How do these aspirations compare with reality? Davidson already enjoys a surprisingly high reputation, but it has by no means
secured its place among the first-rate colleges of the country. The college requires certain religious functions of its students, but
for many, these have become merely bothersome exercises. The cult of the “whole man” often has been reduced to a
cover-up for the shortage of intellectual curiosity and scholastic achievement in the college.

We sense a very real tension at Davidson these days. On one side we see those who are dedicated to
the task of pulling Davidson up onto a new and higher plane, constantly pressing for the fulfillment of its lofty
ambitions. President Martin and Dr. Richards have been especially active in not letting Davidson lose sight of its announced aims.
On the other side, however, we sense a popular devotion to dead weight and inertia. We often get the feeling
that a great many students, faculty members, and even trustees, do not share the view that Davidson needs to set
its aim so high. This is a consistently silent but nonetheless very powerful pressure on the college to be content
at playing the role of a collegiate prep school. They would never deny Davidson's ideals, but they would keep them
in the form of a pie in the sky which is better saved than eaten. They find the real purpose
of the college in the production of intelligently mediocre youth to fill the upper-middle class niches which are so readily
available to Davidson graduates.

We are encouraged by the changes which have come in spite of this opposition, for many of them are significant.
But we often feel frustrated by the slowness and pain which is always involved in their achievement. We live in
an era swept away with rapid change, and we are still uncertain of Davidson's velocity. We say velocity, for we
are not only unsure of the speed, but also of the direction. We think numerous questions need to be seriously
considered. Is the idea of a church-related liberal arts college a product of some out-moded Protestant scholasticism? Can Davidson achieve
academic excellence without severing its ties to the church, and vice versa? What is meant by Davidson’s “Christian witness"? How
does an educational institution witness? Through its ideals? Through its students? Through the achievements and failures of its alumni? How
is Davidson now witnessing, and to whom? Or is this simply another sugar plum for the pie in the sky?
What changes does Davidson most need to improve its academic witness? How do the claims for an expanded Union and
for college-financed facilities on Lake Norman stack up against the pleas for a better library and improved faculty salaries?

Davidson faces an awesome challenge—the challenge of fitting man’s unending quest for knowledge and truth into the Christian faith. This
has been an enigma for all Christian education since the time of Christ. We submit these thoughts in the hope
that they will be pondered. We are glad to see the faculty and trustees working together on this committee, and
we hope that the publication of their report will serve as a stimulus to further discussion and exchange between interested
trustees, faculty, administration, and students. We have just begun to cast our eyes about. There is much that remains to
be seen.

JKA

Actively Elect An Active Council

Four years ago the Student Council was relieved of its toilsome judicial duties by the formation of the Honor Court.
The council declared itself liberated for greater tasks and pledged to lead Davidson student government into new and richer pastures.
But due to the hard facts of Davidson politics, the council has tended to serve as the voice for student
complaints. Certainly it has been the instrument for getting certain rules changed, and has even joined the NSA, in case
you haven't heard. But it has done so as quietly as possible, and has declined to involve itself or the
student body in any of the controversy on which NSA thrives.

The council has done a satisfactory job in effectively mirroring student opinion, but we hesitate to call this dynamic leadership.
The old well of issues has about gone dry after all these years. We are barely left with the drinking
rule and a few parking regulations to bicker about. We express the hope that this year’s elections will produce a
council which will explore the greater issues facing students and the college as a whole. We would further wish to
see a council elected which would actively participate—or refuse to participate—in the NSA. We would like to have a council
which would carry through the old promises of public forums and debates on significant and topical questions.

Davidson students have all studied ROTC. They are therefore uniquely equipped to recognize the qualities of a leader. We hope
that they will not hold these qualities against any candidate who might possess them. The fact that Davidson’s elections consistently
produce the unexpected may prove our hopes to be not wholly vain. At any rate, join the minority and vote.

JKA

A Sickness Of The Whole

Recently two essential programs on this campus have shown dangerous symptoms of fading into extinction. Both drama and debate have
issued calls for support that must not go unheeded. In dramatics the problem appears alleviated somewhat by the formation of
the new governing board. But organization is no cure-all. Dr. Goodykoontz has pointed out needs that can only be met
by more cooperation from both the students and administration. Good intentions are simply not enough.

We frankly support Dr. Drake’s suggestion of getting a professional debate coach. The plight of the Vagabonds has shown clearly
enough that one-man programs, especially when that man has an academic load, will always run under a handicap. Again student
support is needed (How many times does this need to be repeated?). It is appalling to think that right now
many high schools have more active programs of debate than Davidson College. The problems are small but they are many.
And whether they have just been missed or purposely set aside is not to the point. They are present and
smarting like open wounds. The smart, the pain should serve as adequate warning in a healthy body. If we are
to set our sights on higher goals, we should remember that only as a healthy body will we reach them.

Staff

Associate Editor Knox Abernethy
Editorial Assistant Jim Williams
Assistant Editor Bill Ruth
Managing Editors David Stitt, Jeff Wampler
Sports Editor Bill Pridgen
Assignments Editor Charles Ramberg
Feature Editor Tom Loftin
News Editor Charles Dibble
Assistant News Editor Jimmy Downey
Photographers Joe McCutchen, Buck Lawrimore, Dan Adams, Joe Howell, Walter MacDonald, Rufus Hallmark
Advertising Manager Charlie Smith
Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane
Assistant Bus. Manager Rick Finch
Cartoonists

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Right School, Wrong Pedestal . . .

By MacDonald

Davidson ‘Best Of Type’ But is This Goal Valid?

BY WALT MacDONALD

“Our goal is to make Davidson the best college of its type—not just in the South, but in all of
America.” These apparently commendable words of President D. Grier Martin may be found in the brochure printed by the college
to celebrate our 125th anniversary last year. At another time, Martin defined Davidson's “type” of college as “a liberal arts,
church-related college for about 1,000 men” for the Winston-Salem Twin City Sentinel.

College Enrollment
Davidson 1005
Sewanee 658
Hampden-Sidney 505
St. Vincent 747
Wofford 833
Bellarmine (Ky.) 1441

If it is really Davidson’s goal to be the best of this “type”, the time to stop struggling has arrived.
The millennium is upon us. A comparison of Davidson with the 33 colleges and universities across the nation that fall
under this heading should satisfy anyone that Davidson is either in first place or at least tied for that position.
To establish beyond a doubt which colleges fulfill these necessary qualifications — (1) enrollment under 2000, (2) church related, (3)
for men—both The College Blue Book and The World Almanac for 1962 were consulted. It is interesting to note that
27 of the 34 colleges in this group are related to the Catholic Church, three are Presbyterian.

The criteria used for comparison among this limited number of schools are those normally used by colleges to indicate three
things: (1) the quality of the student accepted, (2) the quality of the education offered, and (3) the quality of
the product. Other methods of gauging the strength of an educational institution are perhaps possible. The statistics used for this
study are those readily available from most colleges. These are the measurements used byThe colleges themselves in their propaganda disseminated
to prospective students and other interested parties. One major statistic measures the relative abilities of entering classes. This is the
average of the Verbal and Math scores of the Scholastic Aptitude Test administered by the College Board. To discover how
heated the competition is to enter an institution, and thus how selective an admissions department can be, the total number
of completed applications is compared to the number enrolled in the freshman class. The quality of education offered is measured
by four factors: (1) the ratio of the number of faculty members to the number of students; (2) the percentage
of faculty members holding the PhD; (3) the number of volumes in the college library; (4) the number of major
fields of study. The quality of the product can in part be measured by the percentage of graduating seniors going
on to graduate school, and also by the percentage of graduates receiving graduate fellowships and other such awards.

A close comparison of the 34 schools in the predefined group quickly results in a breakdown into three groups: (1)
Davidson and The University of the South, Sewanee, Tenn.; (2) Lafayette College, Easton, Pa.; Hampden-Sydney College in Virginia; St. Mary's
College, Winona, Minn.; St. Vincent College, Latrobe, Pa.; and Westminster College, Fulton, Mo.; (3) Twenty-seven other colleges, ranging from St.
Anselm's College, Manchester, N.H. to Wofford College, Spartanburg, S.C. This arbitrary grouping is on the basis of comparison using the
above criteria. The box on this page contains the relevant statistics from two colleges of each group. While a delineation
between schools occasionally in groups one and two is impossible, on the basis of one or two isolated statistics the
overall distinction seems to be justified after a comparison of all statistics. Between groups one and three there is no
such problem. The only statistic in which Davidson was noticeably often surpassed by these so-called inferior schools was in the
number of volumes in the library.

Comparing Davidson with Sewanee leaves one with no clear-cut decision as to which can be proclaimed “the best.” Note that
Sewanee’s enrollment in its College of Arts and Sciences is far lower than Davidson's. Davidson does lead when graduate fellowships
received are compared. Davidson has produced 29 winners of Woodrow Wilson fellowships, its Episcopal neighbor 25 from 1954 to April
1961. Davidson ranks 8th nationally in the number of Danforth scholarships received, Sewanee lower than 25th. Davidson ranks 4th nationally
in the number of Rockefeller Brothers fellowships, Sewanee about 21st in a tie with a large number of other schools.
But Davidson and Sewanee are tied for 7th place nationally in the percentage of graduates receiving Rhodes scholarships. But the
indeterminate answer to whether Davidson or Sewanee is the best small liberal arts church-related college for men is not a
valid question for debate. Rather, the really vital question is to determine how Davidson ranks among the liberal arts colleges
for men in America, period.

Removing the restriction “church-related” and ignoring the limitation of 2,000 students as an excuse for second-rate education leaves Davidson and
her brothers-in-the-Church bare to comparison with well-known institutions such as Amherst, Wesleyan, Dartmouth, Williams, etc. The list is long. Following
this article, THE DAVIDSONIAN will run a series exploring the specific steps by which the college can at least start
itself on its way to becoming the equal of the Ivy League institutions with which the college has so often
flattered itself by comparing Davidson with.

Carrell Denies ‘Censure’ Of Faculty

By DANNY CARRELL
Student Body President

Last week's DAVIDSONIAN accused me of “censuring” the faculty’s recent decision regarding fraternity functions. The word “censure” carries an undesirable
connotation, and I believe that the use of it was unfortunate. The writer of the article came to me and
asked if I had requested the rule change. He said that he had been told by Dean R. C. Burts
and Gus Burgdorf that I had requested the change. I was a bit upset when I heard this, but I
later found out that the Dean and his assistant had stated that the change came about as a result of
the discussions that Larry Leafer and I had with the Faculty Committee on Social Life last January. This is true;
however, I do not know why the change was made. Larry and I met with the committee to present a
Student Council request to abolish the off-campus drinking rule. In the course of the discussion, I mentioned that I personally
questioned the necessity for having a connected rule—the fraternity function rule—on the books. No vote had been taken on this
matter by the Student Council, and so no formal request was made. I was merely stating something that I thought
was obvious—that although the off-campus drinking rule is upheld in some instances, the fraternity function rule is obsolete.

In regard to the change made to the fraternity function rule, I should like to point out that I was
mainly surprised over the change—surprised, because the change will have no effect whatsoever. The change makes it possible to have
any number of off-campus fraternity functions rather than restricting the number to one a semester as the old rule had
done. However, the functions must still be chaperoned and alcohol-free. In the past, fraternities have ignored the rule because they
knew that it was not going to be enforced. They will continue to ignore the modified rule. The only way
for the rule to be enforced is for the faculty to act as a police force. I can visualize the
consequences. Many fraternities would continue to have after-dance parties, but they would be extremely careful to conceal the location of
these parties from the police force. Others would perhaps be afraid of the consequences of a raid and would join
their brothers at U. Va., North Carolina, and other schools. Then instead of driving back from parties 1-20 miles from
campus at 5 in the morning, fraternity men could drive 100 miles or more or simply leave for the weekend
and boycott any organized social events on the Davidson campus, such as concerts or dances.

I am not content with the status quo of the off-campus drinking situation. The ideal compromise would be to eliminate
the fraternity function rule and to continue to control drinking at off-campus events sponsored financially by Davidson College. Fraternity after-parties
would then be legal and the off-campus drinking rule would be enforceable most of the time. Such a proposal will
not be realized this year and probably not next year or any year in the foreseeable future, but I am
convinced that it would solve a lot of problems and end a great deal of controversy. Perhaps Davidson should begin
to worry more about the academic life of its students and let them handle their own morals.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Stewart Hits Story On Freshman Council

Dear Editor:

In the February 22nd issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN it was “Noted in Passing,” that; “It was interesting to note how
fast the Freshman Council dropped the idea of making formal criticism of the Union's food service as soon as the
second semester began. Sounds as if someone put a pill of forgetfulness in the fraternity gravy.”

The Freshman Council did not drop any formal criticism in the sense that the article implies. A committee, with an
equal number of independents and fraternity freshmen, was formed to see what could be done about the conditions in the
cafeteria, specifically such things as dirty tables and broken glass, and, if possible, to see if anything could be done
about the quality of the food. They worked with the Union Cafeteria Committee on this project rather than placing a
formal complaint (as is commonly done by THE DAVIDSONIAN). The Union Cafeteria Committee promised better conditions and was glad to
know that the Freshman Council was concerned. The conditions in the cafeteria improved before the first semester was over. The
quality of the cafeteria food was out of the hands of the Freshman Council. This matter might seem trivial but
THE DAVIDSONIAN chose to distort it and form invalid conclusions from the event. The phrase, “pills of forgetfulness,” is almost
good but it will have to be used in a truthful article.

Spud Stewart

Dear Editor:

Sickening is the “good part of the story,” relating Dr. Wendell M. Stanley’s comments on the distribution of a cancer-producing
polio vaccine to twenty million Russians. This compassionless discourse was reported by a feature writer on page one of the
February 22nd issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. I did not attend this Reynolds lecture. Perhaps Dr. Stanley’s face was twisted when
he spoke “wryly” of our State Department’s “sabotage.” Maybe there were some “Red haters” in the audience who giggled at
the idea of slow death. Your article deserves to be circulated and interpreted, say, by the New Yorker.

Douglas Houchens
