REPORT ON FACULTY NEW YEAR’S RESOLUTIONS (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1963 NUMBER THIRTEEN

PARKER COACHES PAN-AM TEAM (See Page Three)

KANSAS CITY, HERE I COME!
Contest-winning professor, David F. Richey, is caught at the piano. The music professor will be honored this week at a
special performance of his composition. (Photo by McCutchen).

Davidson's Richey Gets Award For Composition
Ending three months of anticipation, notice reached Davidson’s Professor David F. Richey recently that he was the recipient of this
year’s Rheta Sosland Award. The competition, now in its third year, seeks to encourage the composition of chamber music for
the string quartet. Under the auspices of the University of Kansas City, the winner of the award receives $1,000 and
is honored at a performance of his composition by the Mid-America String Quartet. The quartet is in its tenth year
as a professional organization, and is composed of the top musicians of the Kansas City Symphony. Thursday evening they will
perform his winning entry, String Quartet No. I.

Born in Abilene, Texas, Richey studied piano under Miss Craig Lasley. From Abilene he went to Oberlin where he received
his Master of Piano degree. Following two years in the service, he returned to Oberlin for one year. Deciding that
composition held the greatest sway over his interests, Richey entered the Yale School of Music where he earned his M.
Composition degree. From here he went to New York City for one year of private study. Richey has been associated
with Davidson as Assistant Professor of Music for the past three years. He will be leaving for Kansas City Wednesday
to hear his composition performed.

Good Nus: They Give Most Blood
Sigma Nu Fraternity won its eighth “bleeding contest” Dec. 10-11 in the Red Cross biannual blood drive. The fraternity had
88 percent of its members contributing in the drive. ATO and Beta Theta Pi were runners-up. One of these three
fraternities has won every time the contest has been held. A plaque is given to the fraternity with the highest
percent of its members contributing, and that fraternity is allowed to keep the plaque until the next drive. With its
seventh win last spring, Sigma Nu was given permanent possession of the old plaque for having won it more times
than any other fraternity.

When asked how his fraternity won the plaque, Sigma Nu President John Oehler replied that it has “sort of become
tradition” for his fraternity to contribute blood and that the fraternity considered the drive “a very worthwhile project.” Oehler also
noted that Blood Chairman Bill Davis rounded up the members for the drive. The spring blood drive will probably be
held in April. However, no definite date has yet been set.

N. C. Government Plans Internship
The State of North Carolina will conduct a Summer Internship Program in State Government from June 17 to August 23.
The program will provide an opportunity for twenty outstanding college students to work in fifteen agencies of the state government.
The student interns will discuss the political, social, and economic problems of North Carolina in evening seminars to be held
twice a week and in weekly luncheons. State officials and political scientists will speak at these seminars and luncheons. Besides
providing college students with a chance to learn something about the state, this program is intended to help attract superior
students to careers in state government.

Efforts Encouraging With Faculty Group
BY CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Assignments Editor

“Did the students stay at school just to prove the system works?” This was the question posed by one faculty
member this week when asked how much his students took advantage of the new holiday cuts provision in the absence
regulations. Dr. W. O. Puckett suggested pre-holiday induced students not to cut, even though they are no longer penalized with
double-cuts for absences before and after holidays.

Twelve of the 21 professors questioned stated that they had observed no noticeable increase in cutting this year as compared
with past years under the old system. “I detected no mass exodus,” stated economics professor Dr. E. F. Patterson. “I
was pleasantly surprised.”

“I found cutting very moderate before and after the holidays,” said history professor Dr. B. D. Thompson. “I was apprehensive—but
after was quite pleasantly surprised,” admitted Dr. R. C. Cole. “I originally voted against removal of the double-cut restriction. But
the system is working without the double cut penalty.”

A few professors had no trouble with cuts for special reasons. Dr. D. D. Rhodes noted that not one of
the freshmen cut the Humanities 11 review the last day of classes. “It wasn't scheduled that day on purpose,” he
said. Two professors noticed a few more cutting just before Christmas, and five noted a significant increase in absences. Dr.
J. W. Reid counted a third of his students missing from both his Friday and Saturday classes before the holidays.
Reid was the only professor questioned who compared the new system unfavorably against past systems.

How high a percentage of pre-holiday absences is excessive is a matter of opinion that varies from professor to professor.
“Half of my classes cut the Saturday before Christmas,” reported Dr. J. T. Drake. “But I would have expected 50
percent under the old system also.”

Four professors in addition to Reid did give a lukewarm evaluation of the new system, however.

Student Council President Danny Carrell reported this week that slow but sure progress was being made in the effort to
abolish the off-campus drinking rule. He told the Council that more definite developments would probably come out of the meeting
with the Faculty Committee on Fraternities and Social Life next week. After finally meeting with the committee for the first
time in December, Carrell was very pleased with the outcome. “They were very cooperative in the meeting with us,” he
exclaimed. Although he refused to comment on any specific details concerning the meeting last month, Carrell seemed very optimistic over
the prospects for the upcoming meeting. “We'll get down to brass tacks this time,” he stated.

Lawrence Kimbrough reported that the Library Committee had refused to take any action on the suggestion to open the library
for study on Sunday nights. The committee is planning to wait until after the Trustees’ meeting next month before making
a decision.

The Council is planning to ask that soft drink and candy vending machines be placed in the dormitories that are
without them. Davidson will be represented at the UN Assembly at Chapel Hill on Feb. 20-23. John Spratt said that
five students will go from here. The Davidson delegation will “represent” Portugal at the mock UN session.

Carrell announced the Student-Faculty Conference Committee meeting on Thursday of this week, but received no suggestions for topics to be
discussed. Carrell also appointed a committee to revise the statement.

Carrell: Demands Work, Quality
“Those were the longest two and one-half hours I’ve ever gone through,” said Student Body President Danny Carrell, referring to
the announcement of new Rhodes Scholarship winners on Dec. 15. Carrell was one of four in the South to receive
the coveted Rhodes award after being subjected to close competition on both state and district levels. The award grants a
winner two years of graduate study at Oxford University. Carrell will study the PPE course: philosophy, politics, and economics. He
then plans to study law and run for Congress.

Carrell quickly changed his opinion upon meeting the final candidates in Atlanta on Dec. 14. Of the twelve finalists, five
were from Davidson. “The interviews make or break you” in the rigorous competition. Both state and district interviews were similar
in the subject matter of the questions and the length of time allotted each candidate’s interview. There was no recall
to second interviews as sometimes happens. “It was an awful day” was Carrell’s overall comment of the final competition. He
attributed credit to his Davidson background as being an important part of his winning the scholarship. President D. Grier Martin
commented, “I was delighted to see him win, especially considering the competition he had.”

The most important requirements for selection as a Rhodes Scholar are these: that the candidate exhibit both quality of character
and intellect. Some emphasis is accorded to physical prowess “as shown by fondness for and success in sports.” Rhodes Scholar
Carrell holds second position in his class academically, serves as President of the Student Body, is a member of Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, served as co-chairman of Freshman Camp, and...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

That is signed by all incoming freshmen. It is a student's statement of intent to abide by the regulations of
the college and is kept on file by the Dean of Students. Five members were absent from the meeting—the Council’s
last in this semester.

Dr. Guy R. Vowles, Former Prof, Dies

Funeral services for Dr. Guy Richard Vowles, 79, former Davidson professor, were conducted yesterday afternoon at the College Church. Vowles,
who died Tuesday in a Charlotte hospital, was a professor of German at Davidson from 1925 until his retirement in
1953. At the time of his death, he was living at 504 Lorrimer Road in Davidson.

A native of North Dakota, Vowles took his AB at Yankton College. Selected for a Rhodes Scholarship, he studied at
Oxford from which he received the BA and MA degrees. He taught at Fargo College until 1922. Vowles was a
member and past president of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association and was an elder of the Davidson College Presbyterian
Church. He is survived by his wife, the former Ella Belle; a son, B. Vowles of the same town.

“There has never been a cut system that was any good at all, and this one is no different,” was
the comment of Dr. W. G. Workman. Dr. G. L. Abernethy also stated that the new system represents no basic
change from the old. Abernethy noted that the present system allows professors to set more stringent attendance regulations if they
wish to do so. “If I come, I expect my students to be there also,” he concluded.

Overall faculty opinion on how the new system is operating so far was generally favorable, though. Of those expressing an
opinion, eleven claimed that they were pleased with how the new system has operated so far. One of the committee
members who drafted the new regulations in effect this semester, Dr. J. Ostwalt, stated, “So far I think it's working
all right. I see no reason for changes.” Ostwalt and two other professors admitted that they have kept better attendance
records under the new system, which makes the individual professor entirely responsible for keeping student attendance records.

One professor expressing generally favorable reaction to the new clause, Dr. Locke White, noted that the real test of the
system will be student performances on the upcoming exams. “It’s too early to really say,” he observed.

One problem the new cut system leaves unsolved was underlined by English instructor J. G. Gross. “Only four out of
20 students showed up for my 2:30 class the last day before the Thanksgiving holidays. This sort of problem creates
an awkward situation since discussions in following classes depend on material presented in those preceding. This problem is not related
to this new cut system,” he hastily added. “I'm pleased with the cut system's operation so far.”

IFC President Johnny Reuben announced that Stan and the Tigertown Five have been contracted to play for the Midwinters Frolics.
The Friday night performance will feature Odetta, a highly-rated folk singer, and both will begin at 8 p.m. The performances
will be on Feb. 15 and 16.

Plans for Frolies, set for the weekend of April 19-20, were brought up. Plans for a street dance, held around
the fraternity court, were discussed, and a preference list for entertainment groups was made. Tentative plans for Spring were also
discussed at the IFC’s Jan. 7 meeting. Plans for Greek Week, Feb. 4-9, were also discussed. Sitting in at the
meeting were the pledge trainers of the fraternities as rules governing the week's activities were distributed and posted in the
fraternity houses.

On Feb. 4 at 6:30 p.m., the Pledge Banquet, sponsored by the IFC, will kick off the activities for the
week. All pledges of the twelve fraternities will be required to attend with their pledge trainers. Skit night will be
on Feb. 6, with skits being presented by each pledge class. The IFC has given the fraternity presidents and pledge
trainers the responsibility of keeping the skits from being too off-color, as they were last year, under the threat of
penalty from the faculty or even the abolishment of Greek week. There will, however, be no faculty censoring.

The only times that the fraternities can make requirements of the pledges are these: Monday, 6:30-10 p.m.; Tuesday-Thursday, 1-10 p.m.;
and Friday and Saturday, 1-11 p.m. However, they cannot force the pledges to suffer physically, do personal service, or dress
ridiculously.

President Martin, who served as 1961 chairman of the Rhodes Scholarship Committee meeting in Atlanta, held the position again this
year. Invited to serve by Dr. Courtney Smith, American Secretary of the Rhodes Scholarships, Martin was leader of a seven-member
committee. This committee selected final winners from District II, composed of Tennessee, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.
When President Martin was asked in THE DAVIDSONIAN interview about his part in helping select Danny Carrell, he answered, “I
couldn't push for Danny too hard because of possible adverse effects... he won on his own ability.” Six of the
committee members are Rhodes winners themselves; it is customary that the chairman is not. Two candidates come to the final
elimination from each state, and the district selects not more than four winners. Martin’s committee selected four this year.

The interviews were held in Atlanta on Dec. 15, but the committee and candidates met on the evening of Dec.
14 for dinner. This meeting was President Martin's first contact with the other candidates. He, like other committee members, was
impressed with the variety of personalities and personal histories of the finalists. A candidate from the University of Miami had
finished his undergraduate work in two years and had just completed his second year of law school. Another candidate had
been in the Marines two years before entering Virginia Military Institute. Davidson senior Pat Douglas entered the Rhodes competition through
his native state of Georgia and won acclaim from the Georgia committee as one of the most outstanding candidates they
had interviewed in many years.

President Martin emphasized that the final selections were not completed until 8:30 p.m. Dec. 15, an unusually long time as
recalled by long-standing members of the committee, indicative of the fierceness of the competition. “The first four eliminations were not
too difficult, but the remaining eight candidates presented a different story,” said President D. Grier Martin regarding the recent Rhodes
Scholarship selections. Two Rhodes Scholarships went to Virginia, and one to Tennessee.

Rogers Announces Greek Week Plans

Rogers announced that Stan and the Tigertown Five have been contracted to play for the Midwinters Frolics. The Friday night
performance will feature Odetta, a highly-rated folk singer, and both will begin at 8 p.m. The performances will be on
Feb. 15 and 16.

Projects for Greek Week were discussed. A number of projects for those fraternities that have not yet planned pledge projects
were presented. Some of these projects are: improving part of the railroad bank in Mooresville, cleaning up the Mooresville city
library and community center, cutting out trees and undergrowth at a Negro church in Davidson, cleaning out a mosquito-breeding area
in a section of Davidson, and doing some work at the Methodist Home for the Aged in Charlotte.

YMCA Gift Fund Misses Last Year's Mark

The YMCA Gift Fund now has $1713.65 in the bank and $165 in pledges. $1200 of the money will be
used to purchase an anesthesia machine. The rest will be used to buy other needed surgical equipment.

Dick Nickel, who handled the campaign, said that judging from past experience he felt that almost all of the pledges
will be honored. He also stated that there were still a number of donations which have not been picked up
from the solicitors. This year’s total was considerably below the goal of $4000 and was also below last year's figure,
$3200. Last year the faculty gave $500; this year, $200.00. However, a greater number of students participated this year; about
50% of the student body made donations. Three halls had 100% contributing: 1st floor East, 4th floor Watts, and 2nd
floor Richardson.

The medical equipment will be put into service in a Cambodian hospital in the small village of Lomphat. Although the
hospital has a sufficient staff, it suffers from a lack of adequate equipment. Medical care is seriously handicapped by the
need for an anesthesia machine. Other workers on the drive were Bill Barron, Nickel’s assistant, Algie Guess, publicity, and around
40 solicitors.
