PAGE FOUR

Card-Carrying Shuttle Into Elections

This year only card-carrying members of the Student Body will be allowed to vote. Election I.D. cards and other election changes will be presented to the Student Body in Monday’s Assembly. These I.D. cards will be available on Monday at the tables on the first floor of Chambers. Afterwards, they can be secured from Paul Duvall, the Chairman of the Elections Board. A student must have his card punched before he receives a ballot. The cards are being used in order that two polling places may be set up—on the first floor of Chambers and in the Post Office.

To standardize the Student Body elections, the Student Council has expanded By-laws 2 and 3 to include the complete set of rules and procedures.

Scholars Converge Here For Competitive Weekend

Yesterday 29 of the Class of ’67 arrived at Davidson to begin competition for Freshman Scholarships. Part of the 250 high school seniors accepted for enrollment at Davidson as of Wednesday, Feb. 20, the students come from as far away as Boulder, Colo. and as close as Statesville. North Carolina claimed her share of the scholars with a total of seven, and Pennsylvania ran a close second with five.

Today the competitors, all of whom are in the top 7% of their respective classes, attended classes with the student body and began the all-important interviews which will determine how scholarships are awarded. Tomorrow's schedule includes more classes, interviews, and a tour of the campus. This year, unlike previous years, only one group of Scholarship Finalists was invited to Davidson instead of the usual two.

Selection of these and the other 221 freshmen has caused many anxious moments on the part of the Admissions Committee and the Office of Admissions. Since late in December, they have been engaged in the final processing of some 935 applications and 1250 CEEB scores.

WF Continues Study Of German Scholar

Dr. S. D. Maloney continues leading a series of discussions on Rudolf Bultmann for the Westminster Fellowship at the group’s meeting tonight. Last week the group held a general discussion of Bultmann’s beliefs, while tonight they are evaluating Bultmann's ideas. On March 22, they will discuss Bultmann’s successors.

Because of his efforts to “demythologize” the New Testament, Bultmann, a German scholar and theologian, has long been the object of controversial discussions. Keith Brenner, vice president of Westminster Fellowship, believes that the discussions will be very valuable and should present “a possibility for those who try to square faith with science.”

The Queens WF will meet with the Davidson group on March 29 for supper and a program on the Roman Catholic Church's Second Ecumenical Council. Speaking will be Father Cuthbert Allen, Director of Public Relations at Belmont Abbey College.

While the number of total applications is 100 less than those received by this date last year, the two final figures of total applications should reach proximity as more are being received each day. However, this deficit in applications has produced no qualms. The average CEEB scores are 10 points higher on the verbal and 6 points higher on the math than those of this year’s freshman class. Director of Admissions, H. Edmunds White, commented this week, “Today it is as hard, or harder to get accepted at Davidson as it was in previous years.” White further stated that the decrease in applications at this time was almost totally from the student that would have been rejected had he applied.

A list of those freshmen who have already been accepted for next year has been sent to all the fraternities and should be posted in Chambers in the near future. Further acceptances will be mailed out March 20.

A film and companion documentary of Davidson are being compiled and will be available to high schools throughout the country in the near future. It is hoped that this film will encourage a greater number of superior students to apply to Davidson, as well as further establish Davidson's reputation as an outstanding liberal arts college.

Pupils

The Cheerleaders, nominated by the retiring cheerleaders from all those who have indicated an interest. The individual classes shall elect their class officers, members of the Honor Court, and representatives to the Student Council. The rising Senior Class shall elect the Freshman Adviser and the Editor of QUIPS AND CRANKS.

Each candidate must sign this statement: I signify my willingness to run for the office of _ and will abide by the rules as stated in Student Council By-law No. 2.

Polls shall be open on the days designated for elections from the beginning of the second class period until 1 p.m. They shall re-open at 1:30 and close again at 2:00.

In the election for the President of the Student Body, speeches shall be made in Assembly when there are no more than four nor less than three candidates remaining in the race. That evening an open forum shall be held for students to question the candidates.

Bloc voting or vote swapping along organizational lines shall be illegal. Any financial support for any candidate in any form whatsoever shall be illegal. The penalty for violation of any of these rules shall be the loss of voting privileges for all individuals involved and a fine of from $50 to $100 levied against all organizations involved.

Procedures for the election of Editor of the WILDCAT HANDBOOK and all special elections shall be left to the discretion of the Student Council.

Vespers Features David Stitt Sermon

Dr. David L. Stitt, president of Austin Presbyterian Seminary in Austin, Texas, will be the vespers speaker this Sunday night. A native of Fort Worth, Stitt attended Texas Christian University and was graduated from Austin with an LLD. He received his BD from Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary and his DD from Westminster College in Fulton, Mo. Former Moderator of the Synod of Missouri, and Texas, Stitt has held pastorates in both states. He has been president of Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary since 1945. Juniors have a free vespers cut this Sunday.

ELECTIONS CALENDAR

Monday, March 4
Assembly, explanation of election procedures and regulations. Pick up election I.D. cards at tables on the first floor of Chambers. Nominations for Student Body Officers.

Tuesday, March 5
Voting for Student Body Officers.

Wednesday, March 6
Voting.

Thursday, March 7
Voting.

Friday, March 8
Voting.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Work Gets Underway: After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Fredericksen
Partridge
Albergotti
Goldiere
Puckett
Blackwell
Hopkins
Wheaton
Clark
Lobanov
Woods
Fogleman
Miller
Workman

On Union Next Month

Plans for the new addition to the David Ovens College Union are now being finished by the architect and construction should be started in the near future, possibly as soon as the middle of April. Completion will depend on the starting date, weather, and other undeterminable factors, but college officials hope that the addition will be completed early in the fall of this year.

The plans call for two phases of construction. The first, which will be started as soon as possible, will consist of a 6,500 square foot air-conditioned wing to be added south of the present dining room. This wing will provide a consolidated facility for the present student store, textbook store, paperback book store, and a game room. The new addition will connect with the present building. As a result of this new addition, the entire ground floor of the present building will be available for food service needs. The estimated cost of the new wing is $100,000.

Phase two of the proposed construction will concern changes in the present building. Wall changes resulting in increased space and a more efficient kitchen layout will be made and the present dining area will be improved with changes in light fixtures and wall and floor treatment. A second permanent cafeteria line will be added and a waiting area provided. New dining space, which can be sub-divided into five private dining rooms, will accommodate 230 people. New furniture will be added and the entire building will be air-conditioned. This second phase will cost an estimated $175,000 and will be accomplished during the summer of 1964 in order to have

Medical Grants Go To Lewis, Wallace

Two Davidson College students have been awarded Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation Scholarships which will support six years of medical education. Ronn Lewis of Durham and Bill Wallace of Charlotte are among eight college seniors from North Carolina who have been named recipients of the scholarships. They will enter the Bowman Gray School of Medicine next September. The scholarships, ranging in size from $2,400 to $4,800 per year, will support the students through four years of medical school and two years of internship.mini-year, provide for the cost of four years of medical school and for two years of hospital or postgraduate training. Selection of the scholars is made by the medical school committee on admissions on the basis of character, scholarship, potential as a physician, and financial need. Lewis, a Dean's List student, is attending Davidson on a Dana Scholarship. A member of the ROTC and varsity rifle teams, he is the recipient of the Distinguished Military Student Award. He is also a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta (pre-med honorary), Delta Phi Alpha (German), Gamma Sigma Epsilon (Chemistry), and Kappa Alpha. Wallace, a member of the Honor Court, was president of his sophomore class and is now president of AED. A soccer letterman and a Dean’s List student, he is a member of Who's Who Among Students at American Colleges and Universities, the Student Council, Philanthropic Literary Society, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Beta Theta Pi. He is married to the former Miss Carol Cathey.

Students Eligible In $100 Contest

Grove Press has announced its “Hundred Dollar Kitten Contest,” which will end March 31, 1963. A hundred-dollar first prize will be awarded to the college student writing the best letter of application by Kitten, heroine of Robert Grover's One Hundred Dollar Misunderstanding, for admission to a mythical southern university. One Hundred Dollar Misunderstanding is a novel about the misadventures of J. C., a white college sophomore, and Kitten, a young Negro girl. Entries must be no more than 100 words in length and must be written in Kitten’s own style. The first 100 runners-up will receive a year’s subscription to the bi-monthly magazine, Evergreen Review. Entries should be submitted to: Kitten Contest Editor, Grove Press, Inc., 64 University Place, New York 3, N. Y.

The Hub Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

A vending machine room and a coat room will be added and an attractive lobby will connect.

FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1963

Conservative College Lets Machine Age In The Door

BY RICK von UNWERTH
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The Age of Speed has given the world an exciting way to do business, and some Davidson students are moving with the times. In the basement of Chambers Building, a complex of machines provides a fascinating challenge and a very profitable opportunity for interested Davidson personnel. Professor Locke White proposed a program of study of the new IBM computer in a chapel program last semester, and several students undertook a brief familiarization course with the machine before the Christmas holidays. Five students have been issued “licenses” to operate the complex device, and are helping White as assistants this semester in aiding others to begin their orientation. White calls his non-credit, extra-curricular lecture meetings a course in Computer Appreciation. Two groups gather on Tuesdays during the third and fourth periods to absorb information and techniques in the rudiments of computer programming and use. The lectures are expected to give students some insight into the way computers in general will influence society, as well as practical knowledge of the machines themselves. The first part of the course, according to White, will be concerned primarily with the capabilities and implementation of the particular machine with which the classes will work, and the latter half will deal with computers in general. “We will study a wide variety of problems for all types of computers during the last half of the course,” White said. The computer room will be open Monday through Friday in the evening between 7 and 9 for students to work with the machine, and for anyone interested in observing or studying it. Licensed assistants will be on hand during those hours. The administration will have priority on scheduling the machine for chapel periods, but reservations may be made by qualified persons during most other hours of the day. Although Davidson College is not currently using the computer for its business computations, several benefits to the college are expected to come from it. Some enormous computations were made for the Registrar's Office during the holidays, White said. The figures computed were unnecessary in themselves, but information derived from them proved helpful, and could conceivably save the administration a good deal of labor. White also anticipates an increase in the laboratory measurements students may make in science courses, because “computation is painless now.” Since the machine is designed for expediency in calculations, White expects the college to profit from it in a variety of ways. “I just may use the computer,” he said, “to calculate my Thermo course (Heat and Thermodynamics) grades.” He intimated that the machine would be on the students’ side.

On Campus

By Max Shulman
(Author of “I Was a Teenage Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)

HAIL TO THE DEAN!

Today let us examine that much maligned, widely misunderstood, overworked, wholly dedicated campus figure—the dean (from the Latin Deanere—to expel) is not, as many believe, primarily a disciplinary officer. He is a counselor and guide, a haven and refuge for the troubled student. The dean (from the Greek Deanos—to skewer) is characterized chiefly by wisdom, patience, and a fondness for community singing, farina, spelling bees, and Marlboro Cigarettes. The dean (from the German range machi—to poop a party) is fond of Marlboros for the same reason that all men of good will are fond of Marlboros—because Marlboro is an honest cigarette. Those good Marlboro tobaccos are honestly good, honestly aged to the peak of perfection, honestly blended for the best of all possible flavors. Marlboro comes in two different containers—a soft pack which is honestly soft and a Flip-Top box which is honestly flip-top. You too will flip when next you light an honest Marlboro, which, one hopes, will be soon.

But I digress. We were learning how a dean helps poor, troubled undergraduates. To illustrate, let us take a typical case from the files of Dean Sigafoos of the University of Yutah. Wise, kindly Dean Sigafoos was visited one day by a freshman named Walter Aguincourt who came to ask permission to marry one Emma Blenheim, his dormitory laundress. To the dean, the marriage seemed ill-advised, for Walter was only 18 years old and Emma was 91. Walter agreed with the dean, but said he felt obligated to go through with it because Emma had invested her life savings in a transparent rainhood to protect her from the mist at Niagara Falls, where they planned to spend their honeymoon. If Walter called off the wedding, what use would the poor woman possibly have for a rainhood in Yutah? The wise, kindly dean pondered briefly and came up with a brilliant answer: let Walter punch holes in the back of Emma’s steam iron. With steam billowing back at the old lady, she would find a rainhood very useful—possibly even essential. Whimpering with gratitude, Walter kissed the dean’s Phi Beta Kappa key and hastened away to follow his advice—and the results, I am pleased to report, were madly successful! Today Emma is a happy woman—singing lustily, wearing her rainhood, eating soft-center chocolates, and ironing clothes—twice as happy, to be candid, than if she had married Walter. And what of Walter? He is happy too. Freed from his unwanted liaison with Emma, he married a girl much nearer his own age—Agnes Yucca, 72. Walter is now the proud father—stepfather, to be perfectly accurate—of three fine, healthy boys from Agnes’s first marriage—Everett, 38; Wilhelm, 43; and Irving, 5—and when Walter puts the boys on a lead and takes them for a stroll in the park on Sunday afternoon, you may be sure there is not a dry eye in Yutah. And Dean Sigafoos? He too is happy—happy to spend long, tiring hours in his little office, giving counsel without stint and without complaint, doing his bit to set the young, uncertain feet of his charges on the path to a brighter tomorrow.

We don’t say Marlboro is the dean of filter cigarettes, but we're sure it’s at the head of the class. Get some soon—wherever cigarettes are sold in all fifty states of the Union.