FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Side Lights BY RICK LOWERY

A LOOK AT FOOTBALL...

Well, depending upon who you are, it’s all over tomorrow—football that is. Davidson goes into tomorrow's finale with a disappointing 1-5-2 record. Last Saturday turned out to be a rough one indeed, as William and Mary rolled up an impressive statistical scoring edge. This week Davidson will face a surprisingly strong Wofford team, a team that lost to Furman 21-19 and two of Furman’s scores came on defensive breaks. They scored once after a blocked punt and again after a recovered fumble. Sad to say, it could be another rough Saturday.

To many people this year’s team is probably a bigger disappointment than usual. There was a real feeling of pre-season optimism about football this year. But after the pre-season scrimmage victory over a team that now leads its conference in total offense, the whole movement and general attitude about has been downward—not upward. Someone asked, “Why does Davidson always reach its peak around the pre-season scrimmage?” This same person I think probably provided a pretty good answer when he said that up to this time, the football players live, eat and sleep football. After this time, classes and the distractions that come with them set in. All this leads to the question, “Well so what, it’s the same everywhere?” But is it really?

All of this rambling leads to the main point I'd like to make. I think Davidson College ought to make a thorough analysis of the football program. In the United States there are three main brackets into which almost all college football teams fall. The first category is the big-time school. Football at a big-time school involves between 100 and 250 full scholarships for a four-year period. It involves a coaching staff of from 10 to 15 men and a corporation-like recruiting system. The third category involves the small colleges that have elected to de-emphasize football both in the area of scholarships and in their schedule. These schools, although they profess to a rare purity in giving no scholarships, still manage to land enough academic scholars who do play football. For these schools, however, the emphasis is upon playing colleges with similar programs and objectives.

The second category falls somewhere between these other two. It is made up of colleges aspiring to make the big-time or colleges that are just a little smaller than the real powerhouses. These teams usually boast around 75-100 scholarships, and a schedule often marked with opponents who will run up an astronomical score.

Where is Davidson? Unless I am wrong Davidson does not fit into this neat little system. I guess it would be somewhere between the second and third category. But somewhere between the second and third category is an uncomfortable place to be. Especially uncomfortable if your program is near the third and your schedule approaches the second.

I believe it is time to think about altering Davidson’s status. The two alternatives are go for football in a bigger way or de-emphasize and play comparable schools. I also believe it is time to stop dreaming about the good old days when Davidson could beat Duke and give Army a good tussle. Those days are the “good old days” and they are gone.

Davidson gives a total of 36 scholarships for four years. I don’t think this limited aid is enough to consistently compete against William and Mary, VMI, Furman, The Citadel or VPI and win. I don’t think that a school of Davidson’s size should emphasize football to the point of giving 90 scholarships. Personally, I favor a program of de-emphasis in which Davidson attempts to schedule several intersectional games with schools comparable to Davidson. I am sure this will meet with disagreement. But I believe that Davidson should re-evaluate its football program. And just as a personal opinion, I believe it should de-emphasize. After all, Harvard does.

HELP NEEDED...

For any students interested in aiding the basketball recruiting program, the basketball staff has a suggestion. Help is needed in reading newspapers and spotting outstanding prospects; arrangements will be made for newspapers to be delivered to the post office box of any interested student. If interested, contact Coach Driesell or Coach Hunt in the gym immediately.

TICKETS...

This year two of the games that Davidson's basketball team will play in the Coliseum will cost the student body money. These two games are Wake Forest and St. Joseph's. The reason that there will be a charge (one dollar per student) is that neither of these games is a home and home series. Wake Forest and Davidson will split the proceeds of the game. Instead of buying a game ticket every other year when Wake Forest is the home team, the students are charged a student price. In the St. Joe game, the gate will be split with North Carolina, the home team for the second game of the double-header.

Student seats will be on the floor in back of the Davidson bench and for one dollar that is no bad deal. Dr. Scott also assured the students that student body needs (date tickets) would be given preferential treatment. These are the only two regular season's games for which students will have to pay and you can’t get much of anything anymore for less than a dollar.

Thanksgiving Holidays! Let us freshen your clothes for next week's holiday trips. Jackson Cleaners Across from Gulf Service Station Main St.

TOMMY FNER, CONFERENCE RUNNER, ALL TRAILS TWO TEAMMATES at the start of the ‘Cats dual SOUTHERN meet with High Point. He went on to finish second in his last appearance before the Southern Conference Tourney this week.

Davidson Bows To W&M After First Quarter Lead BY JIM BEASLEY

The Wildcats complete the football season tomorrow with the Terriers of Wofford. The season’s character has already been established, but a final win would go far to sweeten our cup of despair. Last Saturday Davidson finished up the conference schedule with a 34-5 scalping by the William and Mary Indians. The final conference record is the same (0-4-1) as last year's.

In spite of the score, last week’s game was not a complete rout. The Indians earned 18 first downs to Davidson’s 15. They gained 31 more yards than the ‘Cats in the air and 99 more on the ground. The major difference was the loss of four Davidson passes to Indian interceptions. Each one helped set up a William and Mary score.

Davidson led at the end of the first period. The first ‘Cat drive moved to the Indian 13 before it was stalled. Bill Dole, Jr. kicked his first field goal of the season to put Davidson ahead 3-0. Shortly afterward, end Steve Heckard got off a 59-yard punt which the Indian receiver fumbled on the goal line. He was downed in the end zone to give Davidson a two-point safety. The first quarter ended 5-0 and the Wildcat scoring was over for the day.

For the remainder of the game, William and Mary used a balanced offense and alert pass defense to score twice in the second quarter, once in the third, and twice in the final period for their 34-5 victory. In an effort to avert another defeat, the ’Cats went to the air 41 times, completing 17 passes. Billy Mills was the leading receiver, taking four for 56 yards. Coach Dole explained the deluge of passes by commenting, “From our standpoint it is better to do everything possible to win than to play a conservative game and get beat by two touchdowns, so we threw a great deal in the second half.”

Riflemen Sweep Four-Way Match

The Davidson riflemen clashed in a four-way meet in Spartanburg, S. C., last Friday, crushing the efforts of Furman, P.C., and Wofford. Dick Levy was high man for the match with 282. Sandy Black, fourth place overall, took the second position for Davidson with 277. Sharpshooting Dick Forrester was next in line with a score of 275. Totals for the day saw Davidson with 1368 points, five ahead of Furman. Wofford took third place with 1340; and P. C. trailed with 1300.

Davidson, Furman, and P.C. are members of the five-team Western Carolinas Conference. Clemson, the only team of the conference yet to be encountered, will be at Furman for a triangular meet scheduled for this afternoon. Davidson will also meet Clemson one more time in January before the Conference Meet.Victory for the ‘Cats in this meet will be a strong indication of Davidson's hopes for the Western Conference championship. Capt. Don Campbell, coach of the marksmen, expressed pleasure with the victory and the scores, although all scores were a little lower than usual. He noted that the whole squad is “capable of shooting between 280 and 285” with a little more practice. Campbell also commented on the freshman squad, which has been firing several times a week. Any freshman interested in participating on the team should see Capt. Campbell.

Davidson’s and Wofford’s scores against common opponents give some indication of what is in store tomorrow. The Terriers beat Presbyterian 21-7, Davidson tied them 13-13. We lost to Furman 17-0; Wofford also fell by 20-19. Last year in Spartanburg Davidson defeated Wofford 15-0 on scores by Pat Fisher, Joe Jones, and a field goal by Dole. Davidson is ahead in the 27-game series with 21 wins and a tie. Guard Russ Walls and quarterback Earl Cole were elected co-captains last week in Williamsburg. So far Cole leads the team in total offense with 592 yards and in addition has played fine defense. Walls has been outstanding all season.

BY DAVID POWELL

Completing a highly successful season, Davidson’s harriers captured a surprise fourth place in the Southern Conference Meet held at VMI last Monday. Finishing ahead of such strong teams as Furman and VPI, the Cats placed several men high in the field of over sixty. But it was William and Mary which pulled the real upset, outscoring the expected winner, West Virginia, by some seven points in taking the meet.

Tommy Heffner, who has subsequently been chosen for the All-Conference team, placed first for Davidson, finishing as is his custom in the front runners. This time he took a commendable ninth place. He was followed soon afterwards by John Barrow and Denny Phillips, who finished fourteenth and seventeenth respectively. Ronnie Reese came in twenty-sixth, while sophomore Andy Little crossed the line in thirty-fourth place. Coach Heath Whittle was elated with the results and had nothing but praise for the team’s unexpected high finish. “The boys were up for this meet,” he smiled. “I was very proud of them.” Heffner’s selection to the eight-man Conference team, although not entirely unexpected, was another happy note for Whittle. With a creditable 5-3 season behind them, the team is already looking forward to next year. Three stalwarts of this year’s squad, Reese, Barrow, and Heffner, have been elected tri-captains for the 1964 season. Having such returnees and with such rising sophomores as Robert Dean and Bob Sjogren, the outlook is good for an even better season than this year’s. And with the conference meet being held on home territory, the ‘Cats will be aiming on an improvement on that fourth place finish.

Freshmen End Year With Loss To Furman

BY FORREST ROLES

Last Friday, Davidson’s freshman football team played its last game of the year at Furman. The Wildkittens lost 28-7 to finish the season with a 1-3 record. Last year's team failed to win a game. “They simply overpowered us,” said assistant coach Capt. Don Campbell when asked to describe the game. “They had a big, hard-hitting fullback whom we just couldn’t stop up the middle. And they had an end who was 6'5" who caught two touchdown passes because our safety man couldn't get high enough to get to the ball.” The two touchdowns Furman scored on passes were enough to win. Their other two were somewhat tainted. One was scored on the last play of the game after the clock had ceased operating with one minute to go; the other touchdown came on a fumble on fourth down and goal on the three. Davidson scored on the same play which had already netted them two touchdowns this season. On a roll-out pass, halfback Tom Dews ran a shallow pattern and caught an eight-yard pass from Jake Jacobson for the score. When asked to comment on the squad, Capt. Campbell said he “was not the least disappointed in those boys, despite our record. There are a good many on this squad who will certainly help the varsity next year.”

A Very Last Look; A Winning Soccer Team

BY BOB STRAUSER

Coach Harry Fogleman has shared an office with Coach Charlie Parker on the second floor of the gym for the past three years. Wednesday afternoon, below, Fogleman leaned back in his straight-back chair behind his desk and talked about his autumn love—soccer. A few things were obvious. Finishing with a 9-1 record, Fogleman had his best soccer season since he came to Davidson. In 1961 he had a 5-4-1 record; last year the final tally was 6-2. Offensive production was tops in the nine-year history of soccer on the campus. There were 49 goals netted in the 10-game 1963 season; in 1958 Richardson Scholar Peit Bergsma and his teammates scored 36 goals on their way to a 6-5 season. Bergsma, not Fred Schoen as it was earlier reported, holds the school scoring record of 37 goals. That figure represented almost half of the team’s total offense. Schoen’s 13 goals, in a more evenly balanced offense, account for just under one-fourth of his team's offensive output. Schoen easily holds the career record with 28 goals.

Soccer first appeared at Davidson in 1939 and lasted until the war. At that time, Fogleman was assistant soccer coach at Duke. “You can say we beat the living daylights out of Charlie Parker's Davidson squad while I was at Duke.” Coach Parker, sitting across the room, noted that Davidson played on the outfield of the baseball park in those days. In contrast to those playing conditions, Coach Fogleman is negotiating for two or three night games in Richardson Stadium next year. On this year’s squad, Fogleman noted the play of the halfbacks. “Our halfback play wasn’t matched by anyone we saw this year. Mike Nemir was one of the best defensive men I ever saw.” Of other members of the squad, he said, “Jan Brakel didn't miss a penalty shot all year. Lyman Dillon allowed only 10 goals; three of those were penalty kicks and one was kicked in by Mike Nemir. Gus Brown was the big man in the backfield—definitely All-American material.” Fogleman praised his two Richardson Scholars, Simon Henson (three goals), and Alan Arthurs, “the best wing I saw all year.” Assistant coach Paul Marrotte has been associated with soccer at Davidson since the revival of the sport in 1956. He echoed Coach Fogleman’s comments and added, “We had the best team play this year we've ever had.” He went on to note that we have now beaten Duke three out of the past five years. The praise will fade and the records will be forgotten. But no one can forget the year that soccer almost became “big time” at Davidson. At any rate, it’s all over now and Fogleman, Marrotte, and the NCAA can settle back and wait till next year.

IMAC STANDINGS

Kapps
Sig Phi
Gam
Phi Delt
KA
Beta
Sigma Chi
ATO
SAE
PIKA
Sig Ep
Sigma Nu
Pi Kapp

IN THE COLLEGE BRAND ROUND-UP

PRIZES:
1ST PRIZE: Beautiful 19" Portable Television by Admiral
2ND PRIZE: Portable Stereophonic Record Player by Admiral

WHO WINS:
Prizes will be awarded to any recognized Group or Individual submitting the largest number of empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alpine or Paxton.

RULES:
1. Contest open to qualified students only.
2. Empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alpine or Paxton must be submitted in order to qualify.
3. Closing date, time and location will be announced in your newspaper.
4. No entries will be accepted after official closing time.

Get on the BRANDWAGON ... it’s lots of fun!