Che Bauidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

The Big Haul

The Davidson football team is not the only group on campus that finds itself saddled with a losing tradition. As the turning leaves signal the nearness of Homecoming and the beginning of the Fall social season, it becomes increasingly apparent that the Davidson fraternities are losing also. In this case, however, the loss is financial—the checkbooks, not the scoreboards, show the deficit.

The cause of this loss? After-dance parties. Since the bars in the fraternity houses remain un-stocked and dry, after-parties continue to be held off-campus. This, in itself, is an expensive proposition, costing each fraternity upwards of $2000 per year. But now a new menace has appeared in the form of a growing monopoly which controls virtually every combo—black or white—in this area. The menace in question is Hit Attractions, Inc. of Charlotte, whose president is Mr. Ted Hall. All roads lead to Hall; contracting a combo directly is a thing of the past.

Hit Attractions began booking combos in this area in the Fall of 1961. Since that time it has grown into a big-time organization, which now handles almost every band in North and South Carolina. It must be admitted that Hall’s organization has made things a lot more convenient for the various social chairmen. No longer are arrangements made in pool halls at the last minute. But with the convenience has come additional expense for the fraternities. And it has been appreciable.

The latest move by Mr. Hall has been to secure contracts with several restaurants and clubs in the Charlotte area, thus forcing the fraternities to deal through him in order to rent these particular places for a party. At present, Riverview Inn, Pine Acres Cabin, Daniels Studio, Hi-Fi Country Club, and the Veterans’ Club are booked through Hall. He is quite a shrewd businessman, and the possibility is more than good that he will soon have a similar agreement with most of the available places in Charlotte. This spells trouble and more money for Davidson fraternities.

Another related area of concern lies in those restaurants and clubs which are not yet under Hall’s wing. Rent at these places has skyrocketed in the past three years. For example, Lake Lynn Lodge in Concord now charges $150, as compared with $75 in 1960. Add to this the amount spent on food and set-ups, and it is apparent that the resultant profit is all out of proportion. Moreover, it must be realized that restaurant-owners are not the most cooperative people in the world to deal with in such matters. It is virtually impossible to secure a signed contract with them, and last-minute cancellations are not at all uncommon. And, upon occasion, local law-enforcement officers have been known to break up a party with some trumped-up charge.

In short, the fraternities find themselves over a barrel as far as after-dance parties are concerned. Or, compare the situation to a vise, with Hall on one side and the restaurant-owners on the other. We cannot help but think that, in time, Hall will be squeezing from both sides. The predicament will get worse before it gets better, unless some not-so-subtle pressure is applied by the fraternities in the right places. Since after-dance parties do not exist (so says the Hill), it is doubtful that the College can use its influence to any avail. Therefore, we call on the IFC to initiate an immediate study of the problem and use any means at its disposal (collective bargaining, boycott, etc.) to ensure reasonable prices and to lessen the chances of a complete monopoly in the future. Wet parties may be expensive, but this is ridiculous.

The Big Hall

AUCTION HIGHEST OPENING BIDS IN MECKLENBURG COUNTY (ONLY MARKET)

By Hallmark

SLIPPERY SMASHUP

Choppers, Collegians, Fisher Bodies Tangle

Ed. Note—Last weekend the rains came down on Mecklenburg County for nearly 26 straight hours. In the slippery course of the two-day weekend, the Grim Reaper ran wild as 97 wrecks were recorded for a county record. Several Davidson students were involved in accidents. The Reaper bumped both Allen Johnson and Jim Kelly, and got Tom Cobb as far as a ditch. But the following is an eyewitness account of the biggest and best of the wrecks involving Davidson students. The eyewitness is junior John Crow, former ace reporter for the Rockdale Rabble.

At approximately 11:30 p.m. on Sept. 28, a Florida-bound middle-aged couple from Ohio were involved in a 4-car collision that included, among others, a car with three Davidson College students and their dates. The wreck occurred on Highway 21, about eight miles south of Davidson.

Action began as the couple's 1959 Oldsmobile sedan and following house trailer were struck broadside by a car driven by some cedar choppers returning home after a hard night at the grease factory. His north-bound 1958 Chevrolet swerved off the right side of the pavement in driving rain when he apparently dozed at the wheel. After waking up to the realization that the vehicle was going into the embankment on the right side of the highway, said cedar chopper spun his wheels to the extreme left and was able to regain the surface of the pavement. However, the condition of the pavement in the rain was such that he lost control of his car again in the sharp left turn and crashed into the south-bound Ohioans broadside, knocking their trailer some 60 feet from the point of impact. The trailer was thrown into a ditch on the left side of the road, and the Oldsmobile, due to the same impact, was left with a smashed door and fender on the driver's side. The cedar chopper’s car was thrown from whence it came—back across the road to the foot of the embankment he had been heading for originally. But the yellow Oldsmobile was left sitting lengthwise across the highway.

It is a time-honored parable that cedar choppers never travel alone, but in pairs. And lo, in honor of said custom, along comes the cedar chopper’s mate, a cedar-chopper-propelled 1857—two fraternity brothers and COINS JINGLE

THK Athletes Top Scholars In Financial Aid Race

BY BILL RUTH and SMITH McKEITHEN

Homecoming... alumni... tweeds and dry leaves: fall is upon us, and with it another football season. A time when every campus newspaper must herald the victories and whitewash the defeats. The time for a pigskin introspection has come; not because of three losses, and even three resounding victories will not ameliorate its necessity.

Football at Davidson is big business. It is not just a coach and a team, and any blame or praise is not theirs alone. Davidson football is a large, well-oiled perpetual motion machine which consumes most of its fuel in a process of self-preservation.

This year $87,000 will be divided among 59 football players in the form of athletic grants which are applied to tuition and fees. Nearly three-fourths of the team is receiving aid of this type. Eighteen football players are receiving $1,500 or more and ten are getting between $1,000 and $1,500. Although it might be assumed that the amount of the stipend is often determined by the player’s need, their parents are not required to submit a confidential financial statement. Grant recipients are also allowed to keep cars on campus and are not required to participate in any kind of campus work.

Athletic grants are awarded exclusively on the recommendation of the head coach and there is no screening of these students by the scholarship committee of the Admissions Office after they have been accepted by the college.

Comparison of football and academic scholarships points out other inequalities: There are presently 244 students receiving aid in the form of academic scholarships. The total amount paid to these men is just under $150,000. Thus, it can be seen that four times the number of students are receiving only twice as much money. The average football grant is worth $1,125. The average academic scholarship, $615.

For many years the athletic grant program was supported by The Wildcat Club, an alumni group which gave money to the College earmarked for the athletic department. When the Living Endowment program was initiated in the mid-1950s, the Wildcat Club agreed to cease its separate fund-raising activities on the condition that 34% of the Living Endowment would go to the athletic grant program. The Living Endowment for the fiscal year ending June 1962, on which the 1963-64 athletic grant program is based, was $202,000. Thirty-four percent of this figure is $68,680, an amount just exceeding the total amount given in football grants.

Where then does the basketball team get its subsidy of $18,800? This money is the product of an interesting condition of the Wildcat Club agreement: The base number of grants is computed by dividing this 34% of the Living Endowment by the 1955 tuition and fees figure; this number is then multiplied by today’s cost ($1,725) to derive the amount which the Athletic Department can spend on athletic grants. There is no restriction as to the number of grants finally given, nor the amount each is worth.

This year the total expenditure for athletic grants is $85,800, a figure considerably greater than the simple 34% of the Living Endowment. There are several questions which might well be posed now: Is this aid of sufficient necessity to the students receiving it to warrant such a large expenditure? Can this expense be cut without endangering the caliber of football played at Davidson? How would this money be used if not for athletic grants?

In the next few weeks, we shall seek to answer these and similar questions concerning athletic finances at Davidson.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ___ David Stitt

BUSINESS MANAGER ___ Rick Finch

Associate Editors Tim Kimrey News Editor Jim Downey Bill Ruth Assignments Editor John Todd Jeff Wampler Photographers Joe McCutchen Managing Editors Charles Dibble Buck Lawrimore Charles Ramberg Cartoonists Dan Adams Assistant Editor Rick von Unwerth Johnny Wright Sports Editor Rick Lowery Rufus Hallmark Assistant Sports Editor Bob Strauser Feature Editor Contributors This Week: Tom Vinson,Edward Dwelle, Joe Davis, Anderson, David Coffey, Powel, and Jim Beasley, were registered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina. Assistant Business Manager: Charlie Smith. Advertising Manager: Irvine Welling. Circulation Manager: Malcolm Lane. Ron Snow, Britt Snider, Johnny Clark, Don McKinnon, Bill Norfleet, John Barnhardt, Tom Paul van der Berg, Serge Ricard, Eric Nichols, David Ford, to smash into the hapless Oldsmobile, again broadside. Since this broadside blast was upon the other side of the car, the Body by Fisher was now dismembered into the remnants of a “skeleton by Volkswagen,” or some more apt analogy. Fortunately, the occupants of the Oldsmobile, uninjured by the first blow, removed themselves from their auto before the second wreck, which occurred about a minute later. Traffic was now beginning to stop on both sides of the highway to survey the damage. But none of the arrivals could ascertain any way to remove the Oldsmobile from the center of the road in its present shape (two wheels actually smashed down upon the road, and no motor power whatsoever left in the battered hulk). A few persons began stopping traffic at both ends of the wreck to warn them to slow down due to the obstacle ahead. However, of the half-dozen or so cars spread along the highway, there was but one flashlight to signal the cars with. This was put to use at the south (Charlotte) end of the wreckage. The difficulty of warning passing motorists on a rainy night without any visible means of signaling is readily apparent. At this point, enter Sammy Going and his blue Corvair. Also enter the people in Sammy’s car—three Queens frosh. And enter they did—with one hell of a bang. Going, approaching the north end of the wreckage, did not see the signals, if there were any (which no one readily recalls). He also smashed broadside into the unfortunate Oldsmobile. Going’s entrance did, however, remove the Oldsmobile from the road, and it also removed cedar chopper number 1, standing beside the Olds wringing his hands in anxiety, into a ditch full of mud. He and the occupants of the Corvair all escaped with minor cuts, and with one exception, the three girls withstood the excitement and shock remarkably well. About 30 minutes later, the harried police, who had had one of the worst nights in the history of Mecklenburg County, arrived, and with them an ambulance. Names were taken, flares were set out, and everyone not directly connected with the incident was requested to leave. To wit, everybody left—except for Ted Pulliam, who later had three stitches taken in his head, a Queens blonde who was suffering from shock, and a pretty near scared-to-death cedar chopper who said he had a stomach cramp. He was either faking or scared of the cops, and probably both.

GUILTY AS CHARGED: WALLACE DENIES NEGROES CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS
BY RICK von UNWERTH

Two weeks ago this column was devoted to George Wallace—more specifically to what we consider his directed concern in the race issue. It was meant to be a castigation of his conduct in Alabama school desegregation. That conduct was deplorable, road improvements and industrial progress notwithstanding. We are not ignorant of Wallace's achievements in other areas; we have no quarrel with Wallace’s administration as such. But the issue at hand is human rights—life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness. Governor Wallace has vociferously demanded the rights of his state; then venomously denied the rights of the individual. How does he draw the line? The United States Constitution guarantees equality before the law. It purports to guarantee also that a man is innocent until proven guilty. The American public offers no such guarantee. An editorial in a Birmingham newspaper, sent to THE DAVIDSONIAN in support of a letter on this page, quietly set the Negro straight: “The only way Negroes in Birmingham can attain the position they seek is through gaining the respect of the whites. (Guilty...) This they do not have at present. “This respect may be gained through assuming leadership of their race by local Negroes, at the same time shunning outside spokesmen who seek financial gain.” A good point; a difficult point. In the same batch of clippings, these statistics were quoted: “One of every four white county (Jefferson County) teachers has a master’s degree. One of every three Negro instructors holds a master’s. “Of the 1,450 white teachers, 131 have no college degree. Every one of the 579 Negro teachers holds either a bachelor’s or higher degree, thus the average Negro salary is higher.” Some Negroes, apparently, have troubled themselves to seek an education, and to quietly return and share their enlightenment. How far must you go to earn this elusive “respect”? Or is the point that six thousand a year is damn good money for a nigger? A case can be made for moderates on both sides. “Enemy of the South” is a fruitless designation—it is applied to Martin Luther King, Jr. and to George Wallace with equally poignant justification. If we deplore conditions in Detroit, say, are we “enemies of the North”? The editorial quoted above offers this suggestion: “It is time for all to stop, step back, and appraise Birmingham’s plight. “By all we include the Kennedy administration in Washington, Negro leaders, segregationists. “Of Washington, we ask, does the end justify the means. Are you idealists with true convictions, or do you pursue political ambitions?” May we ask the same chilling question of George Wallace? And can we ask it of ourselves? In an interview last Saturday, Billy Graham said that “Race relations are far better in the South than in the North. There’s a love between the races down South,” he observed. Fine. But of what social use—of what benefit to himself, his race, his Southern home—is an “Uncle Tom Nigger”? Is that love paternal—a timely mess of greens and a pat on a scarred nappy head? In the new industrial South we need the Negro. We need him trained and ready, alongside the white man. Birmingham—the “Magic City”—don’t waste him. In demanding the rights of our several states, Governor Wallace, we concur. But—forgive an inconsistency—grant us our rights as several citizens.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Birmingham Mother Bombs Von Unwerth

Dear Editor:
It takes a typical Yankee to write the biased, snide lies that Rick von Unwerth wrote in THE DAVIDSONIAN about Birmingham and George Wallace. I did not vote for Wallace when I had the opportunity, and for this I am apologetic, but I shall not fail to do so again, especially after reading von Unworthy. I looked in the 1963 annual for his name, to see where he came from. I did not find it. Let him kindly segregate himself from me. I can integrate with Negroes, (I’ve lived among them all my life) but I cannot integrate with Yankees like him, and there aren't enough court orders or bayonets to make me. As to the Birmingham church bombing: my informants at City Hall state that there were too many sticks of dynamite for it to have been thrown; it was definitely placed. The FBI has found not one trace of a timing device, therefore a fuse was used. The longest fuses burn only thirty minutes, and noisily. It is beyond the realm of possibility for a white man to have entered that area, particularly at that time, and, unnoticed, to have placed such a bundle and lighted the fuse. The four girls unfortunately killed would not have been, had they been where a Negro would know the children would be at that hour, in another part of the church. These four had gone to the restroom. If Rick von Unworthy is from the South, all I can say is, he doesn't deserve to be. May the Lord have mercy on our souls if we are begetting the likes of him.
Beverley Bradley Finch

Students Reject Authority, French Ignore Their Profs
BY SERGE RICARD
Richardson Scholar from France

Three weeks in Davidson have already taught me much about the college atmosphere. The relationship that I see between the faculty and administration and the students has really been a revelation to me. Let me explain why. Take, for instance, 30 French students who belong to the same class in a Lycée (French equivalent of high school plus two years of college). The classroom will be all the year the scene of action: insulting, fighting (fists are more powerful than words), disagreeing (the cause of the uproar), etc. The classroom in a Lycée is a synonym for battlefield in which a professor or doctor (it doesn’t make any difference to the students) will enter and try to say a few words, which will generally be welcomed by insulting indifference—or maybe different insults. If he is wise, he will retreat and report the “chahut” (Lycée slang for a noisy demonstration or boycott of a class) to the proviseur (Lycée president), who has always avoided heart attacks thanks to patience. If he is brave and still believes in education, he will sit down and start talking to the savages: “Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.” Now let’s give some explanation for what happens in the classroom. French students will never agree with one another but on one point: Administration, which in France includes both faculty and administration, is the public enemy number one. Administration equals regulations. And have you ever seen a Frenchman following rules? Look in a park at a lawn protected by a “keep off the grass” sign—you'll see dozens of people lying and walking on it! According to any Frenchman, a policeman is a social nuisance second to the alcoholic. The reason for the strained student-administration relations which exist in many French schools is quite simple. The Administration doesn’t trust the students and the students have never experienced both freedom and responsibility. Truly friendly relations do exist here at Davidson. There is none of that suspicion which I deplore in French Lycées, no barrier between the students and faculty and administration. The French student only studies at his school, the American student has both studies and a social life.