COUNCIL RETAINS INTERPRETATIVE PO (See Page Four)

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

GOLF SQUAD RUNS CLOSE SECOND (See Page Three)

VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1963 NUMBER TWENTY-SIX

TWO FROM FACULTY ODK Inducts

The Davidson chapter of the national leadership honor society held its tapping last Monday despite the distraction of a bird flitting overhead, unable to find a roost in which to rest from its flight of fright. Tapped were Howard Arbuckle, John Baum, Sam Clark, Joe Howell, Fred McGuirt, Alec Morgan, Bill Plunket, John Spratt, Dave Stitt, Dr. Chalmers Davidson, and Lt. Col. Paul R. Wheaton.

ODK is a national leadership honor society for college men. The purpose of the organization is to recognize men who have attained a high standard of proficiency in college activities and are in the upper 35 percent of their class. The speaker for the assembly was Sydnor Thompson of Charlotte. Thompson received his AB from Syracuse and his LLB from Harvard. He has practiced law in New York and Charlotte, where he is now associated with the law firm of Grier, Parker, Poe, and Thompson.

Arbuckle, a junior, is a member of Scabbard and Blade, Le Cercle Francais, and Philanthropic Literary Society. A varsity cheerleader, he has played varsity soccer and was recognized by Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.

Howell is a junior from Nashville, Tenn. He is a member of Sigma Delta Pi, Spanish honor society, and also played freshman basketball.

Baum, a junior from Milledgeville, Ga., is a member of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity. He is the editor of the 1964 Quips and Cranks and is a member of the Republicans Board and the YMCA.

Clark, a senior from Charlottesville, Va., is in Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. Recently designated a Distinguished Military Student, he served as Commander of the Davidson Corps of Cadets.

NASA Physicist To Speak Tuesday

Physicist Hugh Latimer Dryden, deputy administrator for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, has accepted an invitation by President D. Grier Martin to speak in chapel May 14. The talk will center around the development and importance of NASA. Generally, his topic will be on space exploration and its relation to the college student. NASA offers a scholarship program to college graduates in physics whereby a student may receive on-the-job experience during the summer and study in related fields during the school year. A Davidson graduate of 1962, Tom Finley, is presently enrolled in the program, completely financed by the government.

BULLETIN

The local chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) voted 13-9 against the request of Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz for their assistance at 6:30 tonight. Goodykoontz appeared before the meeting which began at 4 p.m. He asked the local chapter of AAUP to join him in his request that the National AAUP conduct an investigation of the actions of the administration in this controversy. He left the meeting at 5:15, and the group discussed the matter for more than an hour before reaching a decision.

Dean Acts To Charter Contrary By-Laws

BY TOM LOFLIN Davidsonian Feature Editor and CHARLES DIBBLE Davidsonian Managing Editor

Three new developments have occurred this week in connection with the resignation of Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz. The new president of the YMCA, Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of the Board of Trustees, said last night that it is likely that Goodykoontz will be heard next Thursday by the entire Board; Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston violated a by-law to the Charter of Davidson College in accepting, effective immediately, the resignation without the explicit agreement of the Education Committee of the Trustees; six professors secured the signatures of a majority of the faculty on a petition supporting the administration’s action on the Goodykoontz resignation.

The Charter and By-Laws of the Trustees dated February 19, 1958, which President D. Grier Martin acknowledged this past week as being up-to-date, states in Article 1, Section 1: “The Board of Trustees shall have the power to fill all vacancies in the Board, and to remove any Trustee for cause, and to accept the resignation of any Trustee.”

Confronts Trustees

Members of the Davidson College Board of Trustees will arrive on campus Thursday for their semi-annual spring meeting. Prior to the Thursday session, a meeting of the executive committee has been scheduled for the preceding evening. The faculty oath issue will again be in the limelight. The education committee, headed by Dr. M. Hall of Charlotte, has met to consider the problem and will report its findings to the board. President D. Grier Martin states, however, that on the basis of the prior meeting, he does not expect the board to come to any substantial conclusion without further time to study and discuss the matter.

The board will hear reports from its five standing committees: buildings and grounds, education, finance, religious and social life, and student health; and will take action concerning the adoption of a new budget and the addition of new members to the faculty. An important item on the agenda is the adoption of the budget for 1963-64. Each office and department has made a request for appropriations for the coming year, and these requests are now being studied by the budget committee. With Martin’s recommendations, they will be presented to the board at this time. The building and grounds committee will discuss possible action regarding the widening of Main Street (NC 115) by the town of Davidson. This would involve the college property bordering Main Street from Concord Road to Glasgow Street. Two final items on the agenda will be the approval of new members to the faculty and the election of a new chairman of the Board of Trustees.the faculty, and a discussion concerning the release of a long-standing member of the faculty. Presiding at this semi-annual meeting of the trustees will be Dr. J. McDowell Richards, chair. Richards is a Davidson graduate of 1922, and now is completing his second year as president of Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga.

Article IV, Section 84: “Ordinarily no resignation may be effected during a session of the College, and never without the consent of the Education Committee.” Dean Johnston said that he felt that the Goodykoontz affair was not “an ordinary matter.” However, he had no direct answer for the last clause except to say, “I have been in contact with the chairman, and they have in that way been informed of all action that has been taken.” This committee has had no meeting since Goodykoontz resigned last Tuesday. Their last meeting was on April 22, eight days before Goodykoontz resigned. (For the reports of what happened at that meeting see related story.)

According to the chairman of the committee, Dr. Warner L. Hall, the meeting led to “a recommendation to the administration concerning Dr. Goodykoontz.” From the facts that have been gathered about the meeting, it is clear that no recommendation was made concerning the resignation of Goodykoontz from the faculty at that meeting. Last week in a signed statement to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Johnston assumed responsibility for the action which the By-Laws clearly indicate he was not at liberty to take: “This (accepting the resignation, effective immediately) was my best judgment and I am willing to take responsibility for it.”

Goodykoontz expressed his feelings on the matter in the following statement: “Unfortunately this bold assumption of individual responsibility (on the part of the dean in accepting the resignation without a meeting of the Education Committee to specifically empower him to do so) was not under the terms of the Charter. His action is a reflection not only upon the dignity of the Board of Trustees, but an unwarranted assumption of their authority.” Goodykoontz also commented that the decision of the meeting eight days before he resigned (but after he had put up a controversial display in the Fine Arts Building), if it actually had concerned his resignation from the college, would have amounted to punitive action on the part of the committee. “This would (Continued On Page Four)

Trustees President Reveals Goodykoontz May Be Heard by Education Committee

EDUCATION COMMITTEE
TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

“Davidson's Religious Vow Gets No Action” was the innocuous headline the Charlotte Observer gave its write-up of a trustee committee meeting which took place on April 22. Three men attended that meeting of the Education Committee of the Board of Trustees. The only thing that may be considered controversial about it is that no two of the men attending agree on exactly what happened.

Dr. Warner L. Hall, the committee chairman and minister at the Covenant Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, said that the decision on Dr. Goodykoontz had been reached at the meeting of his committee. Dr. P. Hendrix, the second member of the four-man committee, had one story, while Dr. James Richards, the third member, had another. The fact that eight days before Goodykoontz resigned from the faculty, the committee had met, but no concrete result came out of it, adds to the confusion.

Quips And Cranks
The 1963 edition of Quips and Cranks will be off the presses during the week of May 13. Hal Todd, editor of this year’s Quips and Cranks, said that the yearbook will be distributed in the old dining hall in the basement of Chambers. Todd said that students will have 2½ days to pick up their annuals. He added that definite times and dates will be announced later; however, he hopes to distribute the yearbooks before the first week of exams. Yearbooks can also be claimed by those who have already graduated.

The issue at stake is whether or not Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston complied with the Charter and By-Laws of Davidson College when he accepted Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz’s resignation last week and put it into effect immediately. (See main story.)

Hall's statement made especially for this newspaper is as follows: “The decision on Dr. Goodykoontz had been made sometime earlier (at the last meeting), and the action that was taken by Dean Johnston was in line with the decision at that time (of the meeting).” Hall told THE DAVIDSONIAN that the condition set up in the By-Laws—that any resignation submitted during a session of the school must be considered by the education committee of Trustees—has been fulfilled because a decision on Dr. Goodykoontz had been reached at the meeting.

Contacted later by yet another reporter, Hall said: “We made a recommendation to the administration about Dr. Goodykoontz.” But when queried further, the minister declined to comment.

Dr. James Hendrix substantiated Richards’ statement in a private talk with Goodykoontz on Tuesday. Goodykoontz said the following in response to Hall's statement: “Dr. Hendrix’s account of the meeting is consistent with my own recollection.”

Q: What do you expect to come up at the meeting (of the Board of Trustees next Thursday)?
A: I imagine there will be some discussion of Dr. Goodykoontz’s resignation.

Q: Will there be any action on the oath issue?
A: Well, the Educational Committee met several weeks ago to discuss this, but no action was taken.

Q: Was any other business discussed?
A: Just routine matters, very little of that.

Hendrix said, “Dr. Goodykoontz was not the main reason for the meeting. But we naturally discussed any pertinent topic that our committee has jurisdiction over, so naturally, we considered this entire matter. I think any statement about what decision was reached should come from the chairman of the committee.”

With these facts, all of which can be backed up by witnesses, it is left up to the reader to make a decision.