PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN ON PARENTS DAY

Freshman Actors Present Victorian Comic Sketches

BY DAVID COFFEY

The first drama workshop of the year, a project of the Vagabonds, Davidson College’s dramatics group, will present a two-part program, Why Do You Laugh, Albert? — Comic Sketches of the Victorian Era, on Saturday, Oct. 19, as part of Freshmen Parents Day. Two of the comedy sketches presented, “Box and Cox” and “Horatio Sparkins,” will be acted and produced entirely by freshmen. A brief scene from the upcoming major Vagabond production, The Importance of Being Earnest, may possibly be presented also.

“Box and Cox,” written by John Madison Morton in 1841, was one of the first plays to use the standard comedy situation of two people renting the same room, each without the knowledge of the other's presence. In this play, Mr. Box, portrayed by Fred Gordon, and Mr. Cox, portrayed by Joe Obenshain, are the renters. The role of Mrs. Bouncer, the landlady, will be filled by Miss Anne Shannon Cumming of the biology department.

“Horatio Sparkins,” the second selection, was adapted by Rupert T. Barber, Jr., new director of dramatics, from an early Charles Dickens’ short story. Although this early work does not carry the social import to be found in Dickens’ later writings, it shows a young writer experimenting with basic character types that would later become standard in his novels. The role of the narrator in “Horatio Sparkins” will be filled by Romir Chatterjee, Richardson Scholar from India. Chatterjee has had much experience in drama with a Bombay theatre group. Others performing in this play will be Clark Laster, Ed Dwelle, and Bruce Gregory.

Lighting and sound for the freshman workshop will be under the direction of Brooks Sheldon and Richard Barney. Bob Baker will serve as stage manager, while David Coffey will be in charge of the program. The scenery is being designed by Paul van der Berg, Richardson Scholar from The Netherlands. The production will be open to the general public. Admission will be 50 cents for adults and 25 cents for students. Complimentary tickets will be issued to all the freshmen’s parents attending Freshman Parents Day.

This workshop will be the first in a projected series of workshops which, Barber hopes, may be held as frequently as one every three weeks. It was decided to devote this first workshop entirely to freshman talent since so many freshmen showed an interest in dramatics at the Activities Fair held during Orientation Week. However, in the future, the participation of all interested students will be welcomed.

“The workshop program should have a place for anyone with interests in the theatre. It will fail unless students let their interests be shown to me,” Barber stated. He expressed a special need for student directors for the workshop plays. “Anyone interested in becoming a student director should see me as soon as possible,” he said.

Barber reports that the next regular Vagabond production, The Importance of Being Earnest, to be presented from Oct. 30 to Nov. 2, is well into production. However, the important role of the dashing young Jack has yet to be cast. Anyone interested in trying out for this role should see Barber immediately.

---

THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI VISIT THE Tastee Freez Just Down The Road In Cornelius
Hours
Tues. - Thurs. — 10:30 - 8:00
Fri. - Sat. — 10:30 - 10:00
Sun. 2-9
Monday Closed

---

Blue Cross Blue Shield For STUDENT CERTIFICATE
Comprehensive health protection for college and trade school students under 24 years in good health. Individual or Family Plan. For details mail coupon to:
HOSPITAL CARE ASSOCIATION
DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA

Please send me information on the Blue Cross-Blue Shield STUDENT CERTIFICATE.
HOSPITAL CARE ASSOCIATION
Name: _______________________
Address: _______________________
City: _______________________
State: _______________________

---

PACKING BAGS and cleaning out desk drawers were the tasks of Professor Charles Ratliff, Jr., before leaving on a trip destined for Pakistan last Tuesday from Davidson. Professor of economics here, Ratliff plans to teach graduate courses in the same field at Foreman Christian College in Lahore, West Pakistan, a school sponsored by a combined Methodist-Presbyterian mission board. Originally Ratliff and his family had planned to leave this summer for a three-year leave of absence, but the visa was inexplicably detained for almost a month. They plan to first visit relatives in Salisbury before continuing to New York City, and depart from there to Pakistan. (Staff Photo by Sam Smith)

---

Seven 1963 Graduates Get Scholastic Awards

BY TOM ANDERSON

Seven Davidson graduates of 1963 received national competitive scholarships last year. Approximately 20 graduates accepted departmental fellowships ranging in value from $1000 to $2,500. In its history, Davidson has numbered 12 Rhodes Scholars among its students. Davidson is tied with Pomona College of California for fourth place in the number of Rockefeller Brothers fellowships awarded to its graduates. Students of no other college in the Southeast have received as many Woodrow Wilson scholarships as have those of Davidson.

So that students will be able to take advantage of these awards, Dr. George L. Abernethy, chairman of the faculty committee on graduate scholarships, urges interested students to apply early.

Abernethy recommends that qualified seniors interested in national competitive scholarships should take the Graduate Record Examinations in November. The minimum academic requirement for the Rhodes, Marshall, Danforth, and Rockefeller Brothers fellowships usually is a B plus average, while B is the common minimum for those persons receiving Woodrow Wilson and Fulbright scholarships.

Those students who are interested in a departmental fellowship should contact a member of the department in which he would like to study or contact a member of the faculty committee on graduate scholarships. Abernethy has made available information on both the national competitive and the departmental fellowships.

---

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1963

Sport Events’ Beanie-Grabs Add Extra Status Symbols

BY BILL FOSTER

Four new status symbols are bobbing around the campus on the heads of ambitious freshmen. The first of these symbols to make its appearance was the familiar red and black beanie bearing the big, black “D” and proclaiming that four years hence, barring unforeseen casualties such as writs, reviews, and exams, in 1967 the wearer will be a full-fledged alumnus of Davidson College. No self-respecting freshman would be caught on campus without one.

In addition to the old standby, several other assorted combinations of colors have made their appearance as material results of three beanie-grabs. Last Tuesday’s soccer game was the site...of the most exciting episodes in the beanie war. The banked sides of the field were to become the sight of several rather protracted battles over possession of headgear. One Belmont Abbey freshman and one Davidson freshman decided to enjoy close company with each other as they rolled around yelling. A crowd soon gathered to watch the festivities. The crowd was of a changing nature. Freshmen ignorant enough to leave their beanies on found someone quick to remove them.

The first beanie to make an illegitimate appearance on campus was the purple counterpart from Furman University. It seems that at a recent athletic contest the more ambitious of Davidson’s freshmen decided to collect as many beanies as Furman scored points. In setting out to capture Furman bonnets, the aspiring ones met with certain obstacles. It seems that most freshmen have caps. The wet weather that marked the Furman game produced abundant red mud, as one prospective beanie-snatcher found out when he was cornered by 17 Furman freshmen. Another found that beanies conceal hidden weapons. A well-placed tack can foil most attempts for a fast getaway.

Catawba freshmen also found out that Davidson freshmen were pretty hep about getting beanies. So Davidson now has four freshman status symbols to protect clean-cut heads for ROTC drill. For “townies” Davidson beanies come at a premium. One freshman relates his experience thusly: “I was approached by a young man about town who asked directions to the library. As I naively turned to point it out, I was decapitated of my beanie.”

Barth Authority Vespers Speaker

Dr. Shirley Guthrie, an authority on the theology of Karl Barth and professor of theology at Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga., will speak at the vesper service Sunday night and in chapel on Monday morning. At the University of Basel, Switzerland, Dr. Guthrie studied under Barth, a leading contemporary theologian, and received his PhD. Next year his translation of Barth's Commentary on the Heidelberg Catechism will be published.

Dr. Guthrie was born Oct. 9, 1927, in Navasota, Tex., the son of a Presbyterian minister. After serving two years in the U.S. Army, he entered Austin College in Sherman, Tex., where he received his AB degree in 1949. He received his BD from Princeton Seminary in 1952. Dr. Guthrie is the author of The Theological Character of Reinhold Niebuhr’s Social Ethics and has translated Oscar Cullmann’s The Christology of the New Testament.

Chaplain Will Terry has announced that Dr. Guthrie will lead an informal discussion in the student lounge of the college church after the vesper service Sunday. His sermon topic will be “Something Better than Christianity.” His chapel talk on “The Theology of Karl Barth” on Monday will be followed by a coffee hour and informal discussion in the College Union.

Progress in the Bell System...

Progress takes many shapes in the Bell System. And among the shapers are young men, not unlike yourself, impatient to make things happen for their companies and themselves. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing phone business.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Fredericksen
Partridge
Albergotti
Hogan
Puckett
Blackwell
Hopkins
Secor
Gallent
Schenck
Bliss
Wheaton
Fogleman
Patterson, E. F.
Workman

(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and “Barefoot Boy With Cheek.”)

WORDS: THEIR CAUSE AND CURE

Today let us take up the subject of etymology (or entomology, as it is sometimes called) which is the study of word origins (or insects, as they are sometimes called).

Where are word origins (insects) to be found? Well sir, sometimes words are proper names which have passed into the language. Take, for instance, the words used in electricity: ampere was named after its discoverer, the Frenchman Andre Marie Ampere (1775-1836); similarly, ohm was named after the German G.S. Ohm (1781-1854), watt after the Scot James Watt (1736-1819), and bulb after the American Fred C. Bulb (1843-1912).

There is, incidentally, quite a poignant little story about Mr. Bulb. Until Bulb’s invention, all illumination was provided by gas, which was named after its inventor Milton T. Gas who, strange to tell, had been Bulb’s roommate at Cal Tech! In fact, strange to tell, the third man sharing the room with Bulb and Gas was also one whose name burns bright in the annals of illumination—Walter Candle!

The three roommates were inseparable companions in college. After graduation all three did research in the problems of artificial light, which at this time did not exist. All America used to go to bed with the chickens, and many fine citizens were, alas, severely injured falling off the roost.

Well sir, the three comrades—Bulb, Gas, and Candle—promised to be friends forever when they left school, but success, alas, spoiled all that. First Candle invented the candle, got rich, and forgot his old friends. Then Gas invented gas, got rich, bankrupted Candle, and forgot his old friends. Then Bulb invented the bulb, got rich, bankrupted Gas, and forgot his old friends.

Candle and Gas, bitter and impoverished at the ages respectively of 75 and 71, went to sea as respectively the world’s oldest and second oldest cabin boy. Bulb, rich and grand, also went to sea, but he went in style—as a first-class passenger on luxury liners. Well sir, strange to tell, all three were aboard the ill-fated Lusitania when she was sunk in the North Atlantic. And strange to tell, when they were swimming for their lives after the shipwreck, all three clambered aboard the same dinghy!

Well sir, chastened and made wiser by their brush with peril, they fell into each other's arms and wept and exchanged forgiveness and became fast friends all over again. For three years they drifted in the dinghy, shaking hands and singing the Cal Tech rouser all the while. Then, at long last, they spied a passing liner and were taken aboard. They remained fast friends for the rest of their days, which, I regret to report, were not many, because the liner which picked them up was the Titanic.

What a pity that Marlboros were not invented during the lifetimes of Bulb, Gas, and Candle. Had there been Marlboros, these three friends never would have grown apart because they would have realized how much, despite their differences, they all had in common. I mean to say that Marlboros can be lit by candle, by gas, and by electricity, and no matter how you light them, you always get a lot to like—a filter, a flavor, a pack or box that makes anyone—including Bulb, Gas, and Candle—settle back and forswear pettiness and smile the sweet smile of friendship.