The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Through A Glass Darkly

Printed on this page are four statements representing two different points of view concerning the contents of a letter to the editor which was printed in last week's DAVIDSONIAN. That letter contained the comments of two students on several issues, among them the Vagabond-Administration relationship, and the students’ opinion of the Administration’s “attitude.” One of the statements belongs to the President of Davidson College, and another is by a past director of the Vagabonds. After spending most of this week talking to everyone concerned, our hopes of being able to print a factual report dissolving the misunderstanding and personal feelings involved in this matter have faded dismally.

Much (but hardly all) of the “controversy” centering on the Vagabond charges can be traced to misunderstandings and a great lack of definition of terms, and the present situation is not to be resolved before everyone agrees on exactly what is being discussed. For example: the Vagabonds (loose term, defined specifically here as a loyal nucleus of members of the drama group, based on Trotter, Chumbley, and others) state that Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz, past director of that group, was not reimbursed for his work as drama director. The Administration (loose term, defined specifically here as the President, both Deans, the Business Manager, and others) replies that he was indeed reimbursed—that he taught and is teaching only nine semester hours, and was offered a reduced load of six semester hours at the beginning of the year, all with pay for teaching twelve hours. To which the Vagabonds counter that one of the courses, Creative Writing, was split into two sections, requiring eight hours of teaching a week, totaling closer to fourteen rather than the full load of twelve hours, and that even then the pay for twelve hours was hardly reimbursement for the amount of time he put into directing drama. To which the Administration replies that this was Goodykoontz’s own expressed desire and choice. Try resolving the “facts” or whatever you will out of that.

The other points of conflict are also amazingly many-sided and complex. For another instance, take the very quote that apparently touched everything off. Two weeks ago one of our reporters asked President Martin about the Vagabond budget. Martin picked up a telephone and called the bursar’s office, which reported from the college’s books that the Vagabonds had exceeded their 1962-63 budget. Martin told the reporter what the books showed, and added that it did not matter, as additional funds would be provided when the Vagabonds needed them. The Vagabonds, however, feel that the statement involved an implication of mismanagement, as the official 1962-63 Vagabond budget was made out last year with Professor Sneden, and was not supposed to be binding on the actual Vagabond program this year under Goodykoontz.

Suffice to say that for a statement of either position which has not been tampered with editorially, read the letters on this page. We are grateful to both President Martin and Dr. Goodykoontz for preparing these statements.

As for the idea of a YMCA-sponsored forum, President Martin has said that he does not feel that such a debate would accomplish anything, and perhaps it would not. But at least such a forum would bring the whole affair out into the open—if the Vagabonds’ charges are built on thin air, then an open discussion should reveal that. If not, then their story should be heard.

A Defense Of Policy

Another question which arose in the aftermath of last issue’s letter concerned this editor’s policy on printing letters to the editor. Dean Johnston more than touches on this policy, which obviously needs explaining. President Martin knows that this editor has never said, written, or thought that he is a liar or that he would willingly misrepresent anything. Dean Johnston was rightfully concerned when he felt that the President of Davidson College had been called a liar in print by two students, and he is to be admired for speaking out in protest.

The Trotter-Chumbley letter was unfortunate for several reasons, one being that much of it was not literally defensible. Although the two students did have something substantial they wanted to say, they did not present their case well. None of this is denied, but the question of this newspaper’s right to print a letter to the editor is another matter. “Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor” is printed in the top left-hand corner of this page, and that means exactly what it says. At the time, the “absolutely false” clause used by the letter-writers appeared to refer to figures involved in a budget, and although “absolutely false” is strong language, anyone can make mistakes with figures. As it turned out, the students were using erroneous information, but we still hold that they were expressing what they believed to be true. It did not then and does not now appear to this editor that it is his duty to run a cross-check on all figures quoted in a letter of opinion to the editor.

Which leads to this statement of policy on letters: let them say it if they think they can back it up, and if they can’t then let them take the consequences. To the subscribers: letters to the editor express the beliefs and opinions of the person or persons whose names appear at the bottom of the letter. That does not say we will print any letter received—no newspaper does that. But as the only regularly-printed outlet of opinion at Davidson, this newspaper has a definite obligation to print what different people think and want to say.

Finally, a word to those few who have accused this newspaper of abandoning in the last issue a statement of purpose (pledging a “new look” for THE DAVIDSONIAN) scarcely a week old (i.e. printing the Trotter-Chumbley letter): our staff was and is extremely proud of that April 19 issue. The creative writing and picture-features represented a DAVIDSONIAN first, and much of that creative writing was among the finest published here in years. None of the features attacked anyone (in fact one was about Richard Chase’s hopes for a folk theater at Davidson, and another consisted of a good word for the Male Chorus), the news stories were as objective as the news editor could make them, and the sports page had a brand new look, experimenting both with the column and with the headlines. Sorry, we have not abandoned a thing.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Bill Pridgen

BUSINESS MANAGER
Bill Ruth

Associate Editors
Jeff Wampler

Managing Editors
Charles Dibble
Dave Pusey

Assistant Editors
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth

Sports Editor
Rick Lowery

Assistant Sports Editor
Tuck Jones

Feature Editor
Tom Loflin

Assignments Editor
John Todd

David Stitt
Rick Finch
Jimmy Downey

News Editor
Joe McCutchen
Buck Lawrimore
Dan Adams
Joe Howell
Waker MacDonald
Rufus Hallmark

Assistant Bus. Manager
Charlie Smith

Advertising Manager
Irvine Welling

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Photographers
Cartoonists

Contributors: Bill Aitken, Jim Graves, Britt Snider, Paul Simpson, Bill Hufford, Tom Vinson, Don McKinnon, Bob Bryan, Andy Sale, Rich Doud, Forrest Roles, Bob Strauser, Bill Logan, Greg Goven, Tom Peaden.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

The Vagabond Story ... Letters To The Editor

President D. G. Martin

A STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT

A letter in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN stated that I made an “absolutely false statement” when I said that the Vagabonds had gone over their budget but there would be additional funds available for the Vagabond program. The official accounting records of the college indicate that on April 16, 1963, a total of $5,548 had been expended for dramatics. Income of $1,692, primarily from gate receipts, plus the budget allocated by the college ($3,464) totaled $5,176, leaving a deficit of $372. None of these figures include salaries for the Director, Assistant Director, and others who have been paid from other budgets of the college. The letter stated that none of the income from ticket sales was credited to the Vagabonds account. The records show that all of this income has been credited to this account as it has been received. It was also stated that they were constantly told that the budget had been overrun “through what is implied to be incompetent management.” I have been unable to find anyone who has made any statement or implication to this effect.

My statement to the DAVIDSONIAN reporter in reply to his question about the budget was intended to give assurance to all concerned that adequate financial resources would be available for the necessary expenses of the dramatics program. It was certainly not intended to imply incompetence on the part of anyone.

The letter also stated that the Director of Dramatics was “not paid a single penny for his Herculean labors.” Although he was offered relief from one-half of his 12-hour teaching load, Dr. Goodykoontz chose to teach three courses. A pro rata share of his salary was for his work in dramatics. In addition, salaries were paid to Don Stowell, Assistant Director of Dramatics, until his resignation at the end of the first semester, and to other members of the staff, including several student assistants who were employed after Mr. Stowell's departure.

The budget for dramatics is and has been available for necessary transportation expenses of the Vagabond organization and checks have been issued for all requests made for these purposes. Individuals having incurred such expenses will be reimbursed if they will make up a request and have it approved by the Chairman of the Vagabond Committee.

In January, at the request of the Director, the securing of a secretary and a truck was approved by me, and necessary steps were being taken to provide these at the time of the resignation of Dr. Goodykoontz. The typewriter which the college provided Dr. Goodykoontz for his use was of course removed by him from the Fine Arts Building when he resigned. I approved a request for a typewriter for the Vagabonds but the Chairman of the Vagabonds Committee, Mr. Sailstad, felt that the typing during the interim period could be handled satisfactorily on typewriters elsewhere on the campus or available in the “typing pool” at the college. If this does not adequately care for the needs of the program a typewriter will be secured.

The “exhibits” on display in the Fine Arts Building criticize the trustees, the president, and the church for a great many things which are said to be harmful to the college. I am quoted as saying things which I do not believe that I said, and many which I am sure that I did not say. For example, I did not say that “The Taming of the Shrew” was a disgusting play. A great deal of the material is directed against the church, the good friends of the college, the trustees, and religious leaders, who, it is asserted, are the ultimate power in the decisions of the administration of the college. It is true that Davidson College is legally owned by the trustees, the majority of whom are elected by the Presbyteries in North Carolina.

Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz

During the past six years at Davidson, I have worked with hundreds of students in a variety of extracurricular activities, ranging from Sigma Upsilon and creative writing booklets to the original Beat poetry sessions in Cave Counterpoint, the old Red and Black Masquers, and the Vagabonds. Inevitably, I have become familiar with many types of students in such activities: those who promise and never fulfill; those who appear a few times and then disappear when the work gets heavy or the pressure strong; those who are content with a mediocre job and are upset when pushed to do better; those who evince great interest as long as they have a course under you but fade like April frosts.When the grades are in... And then there are those rare ones whom every coach or adviser or director cherishes—the dedicated ones, those who work not for the money or credit or grades but for the love of the thing itself and who, in good moments and bad, give their best. I have been fortunate enough to work with such students in a number of activities at Davidson, and I can never think of them without that inner warmth that comes whenever we see unselfishness or generosity or perseverance or courage in action. Three such students—Hansford Epes, Bob Phillips, and Walter Bost—made possible the first year of the Vagabonds in 1960-61 when drama was reborn at Davidson with seven major productions and fourteen plays. Two others—Billy Trotter and Bob Chumbley—had much to do with keeping the Vagabond program going this year. I do not mean merely that Trotter had important roles in four productions during the summer and fall or that Chumbley starred in two, or that this spring Trotter wrote and directed November Requiem and that Chumbley has the lead in Arms and the Man. Actors, after all, are usually available (though not often of the quality of these two). I mean that when something needed doing desperately to get a play ready, you called on Trotter or Chumbley (or one or two others like them) to do it—knowing that it would be done. Sound, sets, props, procurement, printing, mimeographing, make-up, sweeping, mopping—at one time or another they have done them all: dirty jobs, trivial jobs, frustrating jobs—sore, happy, under stress (and we had plenty of that)—and at the sacrifice of leisure, sleep, and grades. Of course, you do not get such dedication without concern for the cause itself; and the greater the dedication, the stronger the concern is. And the stronger the concern, the more ardent the reaction will be to anything that seems to endanger that cause. And so it was and is with Billy Trotter, Bob Chumbley, and the Vagabonds. As I say, I have come to know a great many different kinds of students in my work at Davidson: the cool, the undependable, the mediocre, the opportunistic—and many of these were charming young gentlemen who showed respect for their elders (at least in public) and never asked embarrassing questions or raised a voice in protest in or out of class, chiefly because they never cared enough for a cause or an idea to be concerned about what happened to it. And I have known others—hard-working, conscientious, and self-dedicated—admirable young men, in some respects, but not likely to do or say anything to endanger a recommendation or a grade or any other of the paramount interests of the cause they served, themselves. And then there are Chumbley and Trotter... and those like them. They are a small minority on any campus or in any society—and, I'm afraid, a dwindling one at Davidson—but they exemplify the very qualities—independent thinking, moral idealism, concerned citizenship, and the courage to speak out for what they believe—which, as I understand it, are among the chief aims of a liberal education. (God help us, our country, and our world if they are not!) I know that some people were shocked—including people who do believe in a liberal education (passive brand)—by the letter that Chumbley and Trotter wrote to THE DAVIDSONIAN last week. Whether the factual statements in the letter are true or false (and I remain confident that they are substantially true), this view apparently holds that the President must be protected, at all costs, from serious criticism. I cannot believe that President Martin accepts this view of his position; and I hope that he will rectify the damage done by last Monday’s charade of intimidation—directed not only against Trotter and Chumbley but against a reporter for THE DAVIDSONIAN and the editor, whose sole “offense” was the courageous exercise of the freedom which editors traditionally enjoy in good colleges. (If anyone were to be subjected to such a session, I modestly submit my own name. As I told the Dean of the Faculty before the meeting, I had said all that Trotter and Chumbley said—and more.) I think a half hour's conversation with Chumbley and Trotter would convince the President that they are neither rude nor irresponsible, despite the ardor of their letter, and that they are, in fact, among the finest students we have at Davidson. They are the kind of students who achieve greatness, and Davidson will one day be eager to claim them. I also hope the President will accept the invitation of the YMCA for a forum discussion of the Vagabond issue and, more importantly, of the whole question of creativity at Davidson. I regret that he could not accept my invitation to come to the class session last week at which I first raised some of the issues pointed to in the display in the Stowe Gallery classroom. I believe they are important ones and that their discussion can contribute, in some degree at least, to the achievement of a goal I share with him—a better Davidson. Bill Goodykoontz P.S. Looking back over this letter, I can find only one phrase which might offend those well-meaning people who, seemingly, think the prefix in post-graduate should refer to Emily Post—the phrase, “charade of intimidation.” While it still seems to me to have been one—with two deans present, neither directly concerned with the carrying out of the drama program—I am willing to withdraw the phrase and substitute a thought out of Shakespeare, spoken by Isabella to the Pharisaical Angelo, in Measure for Measure: “O, it is excellent / To have a giant’s strength; but it is tyrannous / To use it like a giant.” Bob Chumbley - Bill Trotter During the week that has elapsed since the publication of our letter dealing with, among other and more important matters, the dispute over the true Vagabond budget, other factors have entered our considerations. No man can justly be held accountable for what he did not originate. When President Martin made his published statement about the budget, he was merely passing on what information he had received. It was not fair to him to accuse him of knowledgeable misrepresentation of the issue. The President cannot in all fairness be expected to have firsthand knowledge of the thousand details and little matters which are out of his contact. This may be unfortunate, but it is part of being President, be it President of Davidson College, or President of the United States. We have stated the issue in terms of the Vagabonds, but we declare here and now that this is only a small part of the matter, a microcosm in which the big issues suddenly and, to us, painfully, became focused. The issue is not the Vagabonds budget, nor is it even the reliability of the Administration’s public statements—these are symptoms, not the disease itself. The question is one of intellectual gangrene, and of where best to apply the knife. On the blackboard in the Stowe Gallery display, there is a definition of the Creative Man. It is taken, not from an avant-garde journal of social criticism, but from the magazine of the IBM Corporation entitled THINK. It states that the creative man is one who: —Is critical, asks “wrong” questions —Has a highly developed aesthetic sense —Is participating, not passive —Needs freedom to develop —Is intuitive —Is individualistic This, not from an “arty” publication, but the journal of one of our giant corporate businesses. This concept is our cause. We ask that everyone who reads this ask himself if it is wrong, misguided, or harmful. And we ask one more thing—that this concept be applied and contrasted to Davidson College. No more vivid illustration could be given. R. E. Chumbley W. R. Trotter