The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Desist And Define...

The original intent of this editorial involved commenting favorably on Richard Chase’s hopes for a folk theater at Davidson. Then came a fresh outbreak in the running war between the administration and the Vagabonds, and that situation seemed to warrant editorial comment, but the outbreak was followed by news that the Curriculum Committee had taken action on Davidson’s drama program for next year. The following is comment on all three items:

A letter from two of the Vagabonds, printed on this page, sums up the feelings many of the more active members of the campus drama group share about the administration. The feeling of the administration about many members of the Vagabonds could be summed up in about as many words. This continual bickering has gone on long enough. While accomplishing next to nothing in the way of sustained improvement in the drama program, the dissension has harmed both drama and the school through the hard feelings it has generated on both sides.

All accusations aside, the basis of the problem appears to lie in the fact that the Vagabonds and administration have two very different ideas as to the role of drama in Davidson's liberal arts program. The Vagabonds seem to envision a semi-independent full-scale drama program with wide student participation and a full-time staff of two or more members. They believe that President Martin earlier this year voiced support for the type of program they espouse, and that he has backed out on them since that time. We are in no position to pass judgment on that issue, but an entire bulletin board set up in the Fine Arts Building would indicate that the administration’s position on drama is indeed confusing. It appears that much of the confusion arises from the fact that no one is quite sure where the administration stands on the role of drama at Davidson. A simple clarification of policy towards the drama program would hardly solve all the problems involved, but it would at least let the Vagabonds know where they stand. Debate could then turn from bickering accusations to the greater question of the role of drama in a liberal arts curriculum.

One positive step which has already been taken is the Curriculum Committee's decision (subject to faculty and trustee approval) to hire a man next year to handle drama and debate. This would probably indicate at least a scaling down of this year’s drama program, as the combined work of Drs. Goodykoontz and Drake this year would be an impossible burden for one man.

And finally, a word of support for Richard Chase, a fascinating personality as well as an outstanding author and expert on American folklore. Chase hopes to establish a folk theater in Davidson, and several Davidson students have indicated interest in staging one of Chase’s favorite folk plays. Chase himself has offered to supervise their work, hoping that the event will become an annual occurrence. Davidson's sanction of and participation in such a program would be both a credit to the college and an invaluable experience for all involved individuals.

Folklorist Probes Roots Of America’s Heritage
BY RICHARD CHASE

(Editor’s Note: Mr. Richard Chase is the most popular folk authority living in America today. He paid Davidson a visit one month ago, and he left the following article to be published in this paper. Substantially this same writing appeared in the Carolina Magazine in 1933. Yet its topic is timely today, and will always be appropriate while America exists as a nation.)

What are the roots of our Art? Whence do our streams of culture flow? What is the blood-background of our souls? “America,” cries Europe, “has no background! She is a monster of steel and concrete, with no soul, alors!” The current revival of interest in folk traditions, especially in colleges and universities, has tremendous possibilities. Their return to ancient ways—songs, tales, music, dances, brought from across the Atlantic—can generate a native and vital Excellence in our shifting, uneasy era. Such a development can, in time, even match what Athens had. Not a copying of “classics”, but a deeper realization of our own vast heritage—“native, athletic, continental, greater than before known.”

The true creators of any nation’s spirit are always a mere handful. America’s greatest ones are yet hardly known even to herself. Who are they? One “poet” (Whitman was more than that, a true “maker”, creating beyond himself and better than he knew), a sculptor or two, a few painters; no Euripides, no Wagner. It is a question of background, partly, and partly the old bone of contention—Should Art have creative import, or be “for Art’s sake” only? Surely the broader the basic social structure of any art the firmer and more lasting will be its place in its own intrinsic uses. Or, to change the figure, given roots and fertility, a Tree will by its own vitality grow in its own Being, flourish, and bring forth fruits after its kind. Shakespeare was such a growth. Greek Drama was such. The fertility of the times which produced Shakespeare was due to an inherent and vital folk-culture which was running high and unselfconscious in him and his contemporaries. He and they lived so intensely they never thought or cared who might be “great” among them. What difference to him whether his plays were printed or not? They were alive, warp and woof with what was his own. The roots of his Tree went wide and deep.

Our own times are just beginning. We are just putting down our roots, seeking our foundations; our leafy branches are yet to come, our solid walls yet to be builded. The music of the future is already finding itself in young composers who know that the high-speed mechanical U. S. A. has its own hidden “folk culture.” The drama of the future is gathering strength from the same source. Under the noisy and mechanical surface of our “Civilization”, interchanging and interpenetrated, is a threefold basis of some sort of true and native American Culture; sources, Red, White, and Black. This threefold basis is in each part integral and distinct, but it is not watertight. Just because I like mountain music is no reason why a Negro Spiritual or an Indian Ghost Dance Prayer should not also have some comfort for my soul. But let the Negro build on his own Fineness that I may recognize it as such. Let the Indian keep his ancient rites and dances that I may know the Way of his Earth and his Sky here in this land that once was his. And let me send my own fibers deep into my own Race-soil that I, too, may know whence I came and where I am going.

The civilized white man with his “Education”, his automobile, and his radio! Emptiness! Life gone from his breast, his belly, and his loins! Only a top-heavy Head, an Intellect crammed with self-consciousness and the necessity of getting money! There is no use “reviving” any element of race culture and tradition. People's spirits can be set going. Souls can be brought to birth; we can revive ourselves and remember things that now run dimly in our blood. There is no Culture unless it be something alive in you, unless in the midst of your very bowels you need it. “It is not these forms that give the life, it is you who give the life.” So be it with the Culture that belongs to us, who speak English, and who can feel running in our blood things that we waken to as kindred: Wednesday, Woden’s Day, Wotan, Odin, All-father; the far keening of a mountain song; a play built from what we, too, have felt and wanted to hear and see; the tilt and fun of music and feet in a circle of clasped hands—one act uniting individuals into a Whole—as the fiddle sings out and the dance begins; the full swell of an orchestra bearing on its waves that song you heard when you were a child. It was these things with which, early and late, I found a deep kinship. I shall call them the basis of “my” culture, I, an “American”, whose blood-background is, well, “Nordic”: the old Runic fragments called The Eddas (newly translated by some lone scholar in Texas), Appalachian Songs and Ballads (some thousand collected, music and all, by a certain Englishman).

We are still young and unformed. We are still, really, strangers and in a strange land. We who speak English here in America can draw on ancient sources as we seek to understand our Selves.—All artists, creators “to come”—they will continually seek a deeper knowledge of our folklore tradition with a reverence for the past.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Chumbley and Trotter:

Dear Editor:

It is annoying to constantly view a misrepresentation. At first, a simple mistake can be corrected, but the administration has constantly refused to recognize the true financial state of the Vagabonds, and so, as a last resort, we feel it necessary to present the truth.

In last Friday's DAVIDSONIAN, President Martin announced magnanimously that, although the Vagabonds had “overrun their budget” . . . “additional funds were being made available.” The first part of this statement is absolutely false. The approved Vagabond budget for the year 1962-1963 was $4,650 dollars, $1164 of which was to be supplied from ticket sales. Thus the college was to supply $3,484. Actually, to date, over fourteen hundred dollars has been received from ticket sales. NONE OF WHICH HAS BEEN CREDITED TO THE VAGABONDS' ACCOUNT. This error has been called to the attention of the administration not once, but several times, with no results. We are constantly told that the budget is $3484 and that that figure has been overrun through what is implied to be incompetent management. As a matter of fact, the administration once acknowledged that there was a “misunderstanding” on their part—this makes President Martin's statement doubly inexplicable. In truth, we are at present over $1,400 ahead of our budget and we have receipts and necessary documents to prove it and would be happy to present them for public examination.

The Administration’s attitude becomes even more mysterious when other facts are examined. The Vagabonds, far from dipping into the bulging college coffers, have actually saved the college considerable expense in various ways this season. Foremost is the lamentable fact that the director was not paid a single penny for his Herculean labors—most liberal arts colleges at least put forth some compensation. In addition, despite repeated pleas and cries for help, the director and the students involved have furnished ALL of the transportation needed for the productions—in many instances, notably WINTERSET, this ran into an uncomfortable sum. As a further illustration, we asked the Administration recently why it was not possible for the organization—an organization featured proudly in Davidson's public advertisements (See last month's PRESBYTERIAN SURVEY for a really unbelievable gem of this nature!)—to have its own typewriter. (Until now we have been using Dr. Goodykoontz's.) The answer given? We were told, verbatim: “Well, if you wait until next year, chances are you can get a much better machine.” Indeed?

The crux of the matter is that the Vagabond crisis has revealed to us more than anything else the astounding depth and degree of seriousness of the situation and attitude at Davidson. Using this crisis as a pivotal point, we have made a search into the recent history of the college, and have come to one unshakeable conclusion: The time has come, if indeed it is not long overdue, for a dedicated, courageous and perhaps painful examination of the attitude of this college, and the reasons for its very existence. There is a crying need for an exposure of the incredible disparity between the actuality of campus life and the public.image which the Administration has tried so desperately to build. If such an examination is not made soon, the college is destined to follow its present course—and will ultimately sink into a mire of hypocrisy, double-think, and ineffectual, antiquated religion-mongering. Finally, if the rhetoric of this article is not to your taste, there has been collected and made available in the Fine Arts building, several fat files, bulging with amazing evidence to support our conclusion. At present, THERE IS A DISPLAY OF MANY OF THE CHOICEST ITEMS (but by no means all) FROM THIS UNIQUE COLLECTION, SET UP IN THE STOWE GALLERY CLASSROOM. We invite your inspection of this exhibit—it may reveal to you a new aspect of Davidson and its laughable excuse for a liberal arts curriculum.

R. E. Chumbley
W. R. Trotter

College Pin-Up Stock Vanishes As Reality Arrives For The Frolics
BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

I quote the questionnaire (see page 3) distributed in chapel a few days ago: “In answering these questions, please maintain the propriety befitting your Davidson College gentleman. Avoid overt references to sex—be subtle if you must mention it: Discretion is the keyword here.” Well, of course the pollers (namely we, the staff) would have had a better time compiling the gory results if the above stipulation had not been firmly stated. (By George, it wasn't too bad as it was!)

But in this instance the Fabulous Friday Fries edition of Davidson's own Frolicsome journal had to follow accepted customs. And that custom, as stated in the April 20 Apocrypha, read thusly: “And lo, there spread throughout the land glad tidings of a dance weekend. And all the shepherds of knowledge rose up, shaved, tucked in their robes, polished their camels, and otherwise readied themselves. For during the week, I thought as a child, but this weekend I must put away overt references.”

And, dear and sweet ladies, who by the time our paper comes to light will be everywhere, brightening every corner of the campus, don’t you think for an instant that your Tom, Dick, or Irving doesn’t live by the letter of this law. For only hours before you come here, hundreds of some of the world’s loveliest women kissed their masters—your dates—goodbye and slipped away for a few days’ vacation. These women, while possessing great beauty, are not noted for their conversational knack, but then there are times when a man just likes to sit and think, and sit... and think... and...

But don't worry, they're relinquishing this weekend to you out-of-towners, and wish you a good time to boot. Now of course, you all are grown girls and are able to face facts, so you're probably already well aware of your dates’ extracurricular lovers. And maybe you thought you'd get to see them this weekend. But we men can't let that happen. You see, we like to dress up on this special weekend, and these ladies just don’t have a thing to wear. And, let's be honest, they are suggestive of sex, and I mean overtly suggestive. And then these chicks just aren't up to a dance weekend, with all its go-go-go. They just seem to sprawl around on sofas, and bearskin rugs, and things—not a whole lot of ambition.

So away they go, into sundry obscure hiding places. But if you're insistent, and will be tormented unless you meet them, I would suggest you search carefully around your room. So jog on up there to the fourth floor of Belk, at the far end of the wing. (Heh! You think it’s bad now, try making it up there at 5:00 this morning!) And I will lead you through the room in a diligent examination. It must be a pleasant surprise to go into your date’s room, for all those evil things which you were dreading just aren’t there. But this is because he belongs to the Mr. Clean Club, a campus organization that gives fresh flowers every week to each room in Mecklenburg County Rest Home (though you might want to go there Monday); rather, you are welcomed to the Belk Hilton.

Now, quick: head for his desk and check the drawer. So it's a little crowded. Don’t give up easily. (Bypass feminine handwriting. If it’s not from you or his mother, it’s his YMCA pen-pal in the Ukraine.) The comic books you see are for breaks in the study doldrums, the Midnight books are for his sociology course, and the Trojans have something to do with Medical Greek. The women aren’t in there? Well, on to the closet. Why not put on a couple of records on the stereo while you look around—don't worry about messing up his classification system. He’s learned to expect to find his Jimmy Reed albums under “Symphonies” and his Woody Woodburys under the bed (or gone altogether.)

They're not in the closet either, I'll bet. Just a couple of dirty sweatshirts, some “vesper” ties (No, I wouldn’t say they were particularly sacrilegious.), and a pair of clod-hoppers, more affectionately known as ROTC shoes. But you're getting warmer. Next come the clothes drawers, and you'll probably find the lasses in them. Yes, it might be testy, but try to overlook what in the female jargon are mentioned as unmentionables. (If they have holes in them, sew them up. He'll wonder about it for weeks.) Oops, you're getting closer. There's a glint of slick paper! Quick, is that them? Yes! You've found them. Now introduce yourself and don't look at me in that tone of voice. I overtly told you earlier that they didn't have a thing to wear! Judge not lest you be... and so forth. Just brace yourself, drink some water with your size A cup that the janitors have provided, wash your hands of the affair with the similarly provided soap, and enjoy yourself this weekend. But please, try not to be overt. You might shock Irving.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF .......... David Stitt
BUSINESS MANAGER .... Rick Finch
Associate Editors ........ Bill Pridgen
News Editor .......... Jimmy Downey
Photographers ........ Joe McCutchen
Managing Editors .... Charles Dibble, Buck Lawrimore, Dave Pusey
Cartoonists .......... Dan Adams, Joe Howell
Assistant Editors .... Arne Ramberg, Walter MacDonald, Rufus Hallmark
Sports Editor ........ Rick Lowery
Assistant Bus. Manager .... Charlie Smith
Assistant Sports Editor .... Tuck Jones
Feature Editor .... Tom Loflin
Assignments Editor .... John Todd
Advertising Manager .... Irvine Welling
Circulation Manager .... Malcolm Lane
Contributors: Bill Aitken, Jim Graves, Britt Snider, Paul Simpson, Bill Hufford, Tom Vinson, Don McKinnon, Bob Bryan, Andy Sale, Rich Doud, Forrest Roles, Bob Strauser, Bill Logan, Greg Govan, Tom Peaden.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Chorus Shows Outsiders Different Side Of Davidson
BY RICK VON UNWERTH
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

Davidson College offers her students much to be proud of outside the academic realm; a traditionally good name, a winning basketball team, and probably more madras per capita than any other church-affiliated college for one thousand men in the country.

Davidson College also has a Male Chorus, in addition to or in spite of everything else. The Male Chorus is recognized as one of the best of its kind; recognized and appreciated perhaps by everyone but Davidson students. After a concert in recent years, a reviewer for the Charlotte News called the group “One of the best choruses we have heard, and tops in our present tally of male choruses in intonation.” The Chorus is certainly as good now, if not better. Professor Donald Plott, director of the Male Chorus, believes that “you will have to look far to find one on college levels that goes beyond” the Davidson Chorus. Plott feels that at Davidson there is an “unusually good opportunity to develop and maintain a chorus that can sing the best in male chorus literature.”

In 1954, three years after Plott came to Davidson, the Male Chorus produced a recording; an LP of sacred and traditional music. The album didn’t sell, and the college has yet to break even on the project. Part of the problem then was the cost. The records sold for $4.95, a deterrent to many of the Chorus’ student supporters. Optional vesper services and formal concerts are free of charge to Davidson students. Financial restrictions present no obstacle for the student in the enjoyment and appreciation of good serious music, live. It must be something else.

The Male Chorus has established its reputation on its ability to do good music and do it well. An earlier edition of the chorus moved a Charlotte Observer reviewer to attribute to them “a timbre and finesse that must be the envy of many larger colleges and universities. There is no better example of good quality in relation to small quantity.” That seems like good advertising.

Shortly before the Spring Holidays, the 1963 Male Chorus completed the annual spring tour. They performed before a total audience of nearly 4500 persons at two colleges, three churches, and three high school auditoriums. The tour was the culmination of the year’s work; it provided the chorus with the opportunity to present the college and its musical program to people in areas where Davidson is not well known as well as those areas where a reputation preceded them.

Last Sunday night the Male Chorus joined with the Brass Ensemble and the Chapel Choir in presenting a Vesper program of Easter music. The performers lived up to their standard of excellence but the sanctuary was far from full. Easter Sunday was a poor night for dating; motivation was low this year. Monday night the 29-man chorus will perform again exclusively for Davidson in their Spring Concert. An unusual program will feature a group of German songs, contemporary and folk songs, and some sacred music. They will appear once more at the Trade Fair in Charlotte’s Ovens Auditorium on May third. In both performances they will reflect a higher side of Davidson College, an area somewhat removed from the gin-and-madras weekend Davidson. Maybe it’s possible to play both ends.

Scholars Query Weekend Dates
BY RICH DOUD
Davidsonian Staff Prober

Attention femme fatales, honeys from home, blind dates, and sisters of upperclassmen! The DAVIDSONIAN would appreciate your cooperation in a sociological survey of deep ethnic consequence. The time limit is four hours and your work need not be pledged. Questionnaires may be turned in to Room 359 Belk or the Union desk.

1. What are the qualities you desire in a good weekend date?
2. Does your date possess any of these qualities? Yes No
3. If the answer to No. 2 is yes, congratulations and continue to question No. 4; if no, have you seen anyone on campus with these qualities? Yes No
4. What did you look forward to most about Spring Frolics weekend?
5. What did you enjoy most?
6. What did you regret?
7. Of the natural wonders of the campus, which did you consider most appealing? (check one)
   - The balcony of the church
   - The sidewalk repairs
   - The far end of the soccer field
   - Room 359 Belk
   - Room 408 Cannon
8. Are you a (check appropriate spaces)
   - Femme fatale
   - Honey from home
   - Blind date
   - Sister of an upperclassman
   - Other (please state)
9. Your date was a (check one)
   - Davidson gentleman
10. How did you find the room in which you are staying? (check one)
   - Pretty
   - Pretty nasty
11. What is your favorite dance weekend beverage? (check one)
   - Beefeater
   - Teem
   - Prune juice
12. I am looking forward to (check appropriate spaces)
   - Going home
   - World War III
   - Fancy dress at Washington and Lee next year
   - Summer school
   - A twenty-three hour bus ride to Weehawken, New Jersey
   - Mother’s Day
13. There is (check appropriate spaces)
   - A picture of me on page 59 of the February issue
   - A faction in favor of giving Duke to the girls for which it was intended
   - A strange man looking over my shoulder