Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

BASKETBALLERS AT TOURNAMENT (See Page Three)

VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1963 NUMBER SEVENTEEN

TWO ZEROES figure prominently in “The Adding Machine.” Pete Myers and Mrs. Kay Gross have leading roles in the play which opened Wednesday. The curtain will rise for the final performance at 8:15 tomorrow night. (Staff Photo by Lawrimore)

Sailstad Maintains Vags Will Maintain Program

BY DAVID STITT
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Davidson’s drama program apparently will continue despite the resignation of Vagabond student assistants last week. This was the essence of a statement made by Robert J. Sailstad, chairman of the Vagabond Governing and Planning Board, after a board meeting last Friday.

Wednesday afternoon the drama department released the names of three new student coordinators, who will be largely responsible for the continuance of the program. They are Jon Miller, Chum Roberts, and Bob Chumbley. It was also announced that James R. Gross and Dr. W. H. Tilley will supervise the upcoming student plays.

Although Sailstad did not cite any specific steps his committee has taken toward securing a director or resolving other key Vagabond problems, he said that the committee plans to go ahead with the student productions, and then decide at a later date where to go from there. Sailstad stated that if a director is hired this semester it will be on a temporary basis, and that if the committee does find someone to fill the vacant position, another major Vagabond production will probably be scheduled before the end of school.

In a DAVIDSONIAN interview last week, Goodykoontz outlined several major problems the Vagabonds have had in attempting to carry on a drama program at Davidson. He also pointed out what he thought to be a reluctance on the part of the administration to wholeheartedly support a full drama program.

When asked about the possibility of the college curtailing dramatic activities on campus, Sailstad said, “Every indication is that the college will do everything it can to encourage students and faculty in a drama program—a good drama program—adapted to the needs and opportunities in a liberal arts college.

“Our committee has discussed ways of promoting interest in the theater, but basically we are concerned with keeping the theater active for this semester. There is interest, there is a good record of achievement, and we are mainly interested in capitalizing on this interest,” he concluded.

President D. Grier Martin, when asked about why the secretarial help promised as planned this spring, director Dr. William F. Goodykoontz and two Goodykoontz never materialized, noted that the business office had been trying to find a secretary for the Vagabonds, but that several personnel in that office had been out with the flu, and thus had been unable to conduct interviews for the job.

Martin expressed appreciation to Goodykoontz for his one-man effort to keep the drama program alive and effective. He pointed out that Goodykoontz would “... hardly have been fair to himself” to have continued carrying the tremendous load he was under prior to his resignation as Vagabond director. “He was driving himself beyond the point any man ought to be driven,” Martin stated.

Drake Expresses Doubts

No more action will be taken this semester on the off-campus drinking issue, reports Student Body President Danny Carrell. “We've done about all we can for now,” Carrell said after the Student Council meeting Monday night. (The Student Council had hoped to persuade the faculty this year to abolish the rule which prohibits drinking at an off-campus event sponsored in some way by the college.) “We can't even get by the committee, so there's no use in pushing the matter any further this year. Maybe next year a little more can be done, and we'll eventually get this rule abolished—but not while I'm here,” he stated.

Carrell was careful to point out that, although he had hoped for more progress in the matter, some significant changes had been made. “I'll never be satisfied until the entire rule is abolished; but we did get something accomplished, and that's better than nothing.”

The council has recently asked for student representation on three more faculty committees. “This representative on the Fraternities (and Social Life) Committee will help out a lot. We don’t know yet whether he will have voting privileges or not, but at least we'll have an inside voice,” Carrell said. “Also, the committee has asked that the rule itself be explained thoroughly to all groups before they leave campus. There has been some misunderstanding in the past and this should clear that up,” he added.

In the regular meeting, Carrell told the council that the election will be conducted by the Student Council. Carrell said that all organizations on campus have been contacted by a special council committee. Representatives of every organization have met with the committee. They have already eliminated many conflicts and questions which have existed between the groups and hope to prevent any similar occurrences in the future.

A rather omnibus assembly will be held on Monday to explain election procedures and to distribute the new voting cards to be used for the first time. Nominations for Student Body Officers will then begin on Tuesday. For the second straight week, five members were absent from the meeting.

MacDonald Questions Davidson’s Situation

Junior Walter MacDonald proves this fact on page two in an article which initiates a series THE DAVIDSONIAN is running for the improvement of the college.

MacDonald, a history major from Londonderry, N. H., told THE DAVIDSONIAN that his sole purpose in his series is “to help the college.” He said, “I hope the school will change its goal and try to be the best liberal arts college in the nation.”

MacDonald's series will become more specific next week when he will offer suggestions for the improvement of the college. He will follow his first article with others dealing with special problems and areas in which the college can make progress. He indicated that the article next week will deal with the inadequacies of our library.

A tiny spark lighted by Martin started MacDonald on his research. In a brochure released last year to celebrate Davidson's 125th anniversary, he read the administration’s goal as stated by Martin.

MacDonald made the observation that he hoped his series would help the school in the fall when it begins a major self-study that is required by the Southern Association of Colleges. He said, “I read that statement (by the president) in the brochure that said we were striving to become the best church-related, liberal arts college in the country and thought that we were already the best. After looking into it, I found out that I was right.”

MacDonald began his study last August. When asked how much time he had put into his research, he commented, “I wouldn’t have any idea.” He did most of the work during the last month of last summer and during the past three vacations of this school year.

In all, he has contacted 40 schools directly by letter, receiving an answer from all but two. He contacted all 33 schools in the country which are church-related, liberal arts colleges. He also has a prodigious amount of material collected from catalogues and various other published sources.

TONIGHT Dame Judith Anderson will star as “Lady Macbeth” and “Medea” at a special performance at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium. Shown above as the vengeful fury Medea, she will play the role of Lady Macbeth tomorrow night.

On Debating Team Future

Davidson debate coach Dr. J. T. Drake expressed his fears Wednesday that it might be necessary to cancel Davidson’s participation in still another debating tournament this year. Drake moaned, “It’s very discouraging. Last year we never had to cancel a tournament. This year it seems that we've done nothing but cancel.”

Last year was a particularly good year for Davidson's debating team. Both the novice team and the varsity won about 75 percent of their rounds, bringing back many first and second place trophies.trophies. This year, however, Drake has noticed a definite drop in student interest. Many of the members of last year’s team have failed to return this year. Many of these cases are probably due to an overload of work. They will probably be remedied as soon as these people can get their schedules straightened out. At least from the upperclassmen I've seen some work.

The main problem seems to stem from the freshmen. The beginning of the year showed an exceptional amount of interest among the freshmen when 17 expressed their desire to work with the team. This group has dwindled to four. Of these, only two showed up for a final practice Tuesday night before the Lenoir Rhyne Novice Tournament to be held this Saturday. In order to enter four men in this tournament, it will be necessary to have another two or three weeks before student parking is allowed behind the Fine Arts Center. He said that signs have now been ordered and will be put up soon. Fred McGuirt suggested that student parking be permitted around the gym at night in places reserved for the athletic department staff. “They (the parking places) aren’t used after five o’clock, so why can't they be handled like the ROTC area beside Belk?” he asked. This would allow more parking area for students using the gym at night. The council has sent the request to the faculty Traffic Committee.

Another change in the Student Council By-Laws was approved. The election of the President of the Student Union will be open to the student body in the future. Nominations will be made by the Union board, but Drake believes that several factors contribute to this lack of interest. He stated that the curriculum has grown harder for freshmen, limiting the time they can spend on extra-curricular activities. Another cause, he feels, is Davidson's lack of a professional coach. “It’s discouraging to these students to find that we can’t give them the professional assistance they expect and to which many of them were accustomed in high school. In recent years such schools as Boone, High Point College, and Mars Hill have seen fit to hire professional debating coaches. Of course, I'm not ready to step into President Martin's shoes, but I would like to see this done at Davidson.”

The final practice for the Lenoir Rhyne Tournament will be held Thursday night. Unless there is an improvement in interest, this trip too will have to be canceled. At any rate, this period in the next few weeks will be crucial.

Fraternity pledge class averages have been tallied and are now in the hands of the IFC. On top with a 1.82 average are the ATO’s. Following are the Pikas with a 1.71 average and the Kappa Sigs with a 1.69. Others in order of their ranking are the Pi Kapps with 1.67, the Sigma Chis with a 1.65, the SAE’s with a 1.64, the Phi Delts with a 1.63, the Betas with a 1.56, the Sigma Nus with a 1.44, the Phi Gams with a 1.41, the KA’s with a 1.40, and the Sig Eps with a 1.16.

In earlier pledge competition, the Sigma Chis copped first place on skit night, with the Phi Delts in second place, followed by the ATO’s in third. As for the homecoming decorations competition, the Betas came out on top, followed by the Pikas and SAE’s.

Davidson College gave testimony to the Army's rapidly-expanding aviation program Tuesday when its first Army Aviation ROTC Cadets received their wings from a Pentagon official. The wings signify that the cadets have satisfactorily completed the ROTC aviation training. When they enter active service, they must go on to complete some nine months of flight training before qualifying as Army pilots, Maj. David R. Hampton, Commandant of Cadets, said.

This is the first year that aviation training, open only to seniors, has been offered in connection with the Davidson ROTC Dept., and everyone involved seems satisfied and enthusiastic. “Like anything new, only a few cadets turned out on the first call for volunteers,” commented Hampton. “Some may have been discouraged by the fact that the course is extra-curricular; the only benefits from it come after graduation in active service. As soon as the word spread, the number jumped from six to eleven men,” he continued, “and we have about 30 rising seniors who have indicated interest in the program next year.”

“Davidson is to be commended for recognizing the need of providing Army aviators. We still lack about 1,200,” remarked Col. Robert H. Schulz, Deputy Director of Army Aviation at the Pentagon. Schulz, who gave the students their wings in a ceremony in the MS I classroom, expressed hope that the program here will continue to grow with the Army aviation program.

Cadets receiving wings included Gilbert Brauch, Lawrence Kimbrough, Marce Pearson, John Thomas, Edward Willer, Thomas Tuttle, Paul Watson, and Russell Williams. “We had to go through 36 1/2 hours of flight training and 35 hours of ground training to complete the course,” explained Tuttle. “We got our civilian pilot licenses first and took a four-hour cross-country solo as part of our training.”

Several of the cadets commented that the first time up was more exciting than frightening. The boys got used to flying with instructor Jimmy Miller of Mooresville, and the training became routine until the display of their newly “sprouted” wings as well as the bad ones. He told THE DAVIDSONIAN in his closing statement, “I'm sincere in what I'm doing; I want to help the college; I think that this is one of the ways an undergraduate can do it.”

Boston Will Host Scientific Conclave

The seventeenth annual eastern college Science Convention will be held at Boston College, Mass. on May 24. Students from colleges across the nation are invited to attend the event. One of the purposes of the convention is to discover students with a talent for scientific theory. The program includes the presentation of student research papers. Other events will be a tour of Boston and a dinner and dance in Boston.