Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Academic Probation

We were extremely pleased to learn that the Executive Committee has seen fit to propose to the faculty certain liberalizations of the Academic Probation rule.

The proposal to make the six-week freshman report unofficial is merciful and just. In most cases, the six-week report consists of one review grade per course, which is a poor excuse for putting a student on probation for an entire semester. As we were not told exactly what other proposals the Executive Committee did make, we are limited to hopeful suggestions of changes in the rule we feel are necessary.

The first question we have concerns the change made this year in the Academic Probation requirement raising the minimum number of hours and quality points from 9 and 6 respectively to 12 and 9. Question being, is this change necessary or useful? We definitely think not, for several reasons. For instance, the existing promotion requirement for entrance into the junior class is 54 hours and 48 quality points. Even if a student were to make 12 hours and 9 quality points for four semesters, he would not qualify for promotion to the junior class, despite the fact that he had never been on Academic Probation. In other words, the promotion rule takes care of itself, so why harass a student when he knows he has to improve anyway? Even if the harassment is for some ??? and ill

Can it be possible that the four thousand-plus alumni and student feet which will tramp around in the Patterson Fraternity Court during the IFC-Alumni luncheon this Homecoming weekend will improve the appearance of this perennial eyesore? Good Luck. Still, the College refuses to spend any money to beautify this “Weejun trap,” as it has aptly been called. Maybe one of our wealthy alumni will see the mess and donate a small sum to remedy the situation. Our Father, which art in heaven ....

* * *

We want to thank Dean of Students Bob Young for his genuine interest in and intelligent service to Davidson’s fraternities. He is constantly on the lookout for possible problems and crises which might arise and has taken steps to solve them before any further damage is done to fraternity-Administration relations. We appreciate his efforts, through which he has made the position of Fraternity Liaison Officer an increasingly important and helpful post.

* * *

Are the local churches (i.e. those at which Sunday morning attendance is equivalent to Vespers attendance) more suitable for worship than those which are not within the town limits of Davidson? Could not the Honor System be extended to cover pledged attendance at our hometown churches or those in Charlotte? Some progress was made in this area last year; guess the powers-that-be feel that we should be satisfied for a while.

* * *

Still in an ecclesiastical vein, we would like to express our thanks to Chaplain Will Terry for nothing in particular and everything in general. The National Review to the contrary, we feel that Christianity can be made relevant on the Davidson campus, even for the Gant & Weejun set. Rev. Terry is no gung-ho evangelist, in the Bible-Belt sense, but in his own unassuming way he has been most effective in his work. He listens so well. And it is good to see the Chaplain doing something more than drinking coffee with the secretaries in the Union every morning.

* * *

We (editorially) shot an arrow into the air, It fell to the earth ... and disappeared in the slimy muck of the fraternity court.

* * *

Wonder what kind of reception Madame Nhu would have received at Davidson? Despite the fact that Davidson is desperately trying to cover herself with Ivy (which, we hear, raises academic standards immeasurably), it is hard to believe that the Davidson gentlemen would have resorted to eggs and rocks, as did our idols, Princeton and Harvard. The often intolerable maleness of Davidson's atmosphere would prohibit such harsh treatment of such a fair member of the fair sex, regardless of her political activities.

* * *

And, while we are talking about sex, need we mention how overjoyed we are to have our campus so bountifully adorned with females? What could be a more welcome balm than chilly weather and dry leaves, loud Negro combos (via Hit Attractions, of course), Chanel No. 5, and skirts? Welcome to our campus. May Monday never come.

* * *

And remember: There are no after-dance parties this weekend!

Home To The Wars

It’s interesting to speculate on how many college and university presidents have worked themselves to death. Between squeezing money from reluctant capitalists, representing their institutions at various official functions, defending their admissions committees’ selection of future classes, and absorbing the personal attacks of tactless, if well-meaning, critics, they are understandably a pretty harried lot. The president of this college has not worked himself to death. This is not because he doesn’t work hard (he does), but because he has sense enough to take an occasional break and relax. We welcome President Martin back to the Princeton of the South from a well-deserved vacation.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Stitt

Managing Editors
Tim Kamrey
Bill Ruth

Associate Editors
Jeff Wampler
Charles Dibble
Charles Ramberg

Assistant Editor
Rick von Unwerth

Assignments Editor
John Tedd

Feature Editor
Tom Loflin

Sports Editor
Bob Strauser

Assistant Sports Editor
Rick Lowery

Business Manager
Cheelie Smith

Assistant Business Manager
Tom Vinson

Contributors This Week:
Dick Hicks, Bill Norfle, Eric Nichols, Forrest Roles, Jim Beasley, and David Powell.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

News Editor
Jim Downey

Photography Editor
Joe McCutchen

Photographers
Sam Smith
Romir Chatterjee

Cartoonists
Dan Adams
Johnny Wright
Rufus Hallmark
Paul van den Berg

Advertising Manager
Irvine Welling

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Circulation Manager
Dan Broadhead

Ron Snow, David Coffey, Bill Hufford, Tom et, Bill Aitken, Greg Govan, Sidney Ferrar,

State Law Gags Reds; Davidson Gagged Now

“But the peculiar evil of silencing the expression of opinion is that it is robbing the human race; posterity as well as the existing generation; those who dissent from the opinion, still more than those who hold it. If the opinion is right, they are deprived of the opportunity of exchanging error for truth; if wrong, they lose, what is almost as great a benefit, the clearer perception and livelier impression of truth, produced by its collision with error.” — John Stuart Mill

Think About It

By Wright

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

S’nP Pilot Lauds Paper, Blasts Montana Doctor Ackerman

Dear Editor:

The letter to the editor by Dr. F. D. Hurd attacking the article written by Rick von Unwerth on the actions of Governor Wallace seemed to me very “radical” and uncalled for. I suggest that this parent has some abnormal desire to find out more than he knows now about Davidson College, especially when he calls on THE DAVIDSONIAN to publish “more articles typical of Davidson College.” Articles which are “typical” of any campus newspaper's domain have no news value in themselves. Is it not true that virtue has no news value? This writer must admit such actions as taken by Gov. Wallace, which we might conveniently label “vice,” do have news value and are read by people such as Dr. Hurd. A student newspaper is not dedicated to catering to Alumni and/or to parents of students. Instead, this newspaper is printing what the students feel, and no one has the prerogative to propagate their prejudices or feelings on a conscientious student who is trying to find out the truth for himself. Am I not right that students are attempting to expose themselves to as many different points of view as possible, even though they may be hindered by their parents? Dr. Hurd states that “I am still happy that I saw fit to send my boy, at an increased expense, so far away from home in order to get away from similar associates (von Unwerth) in the Northern colleges.” May I ask the writer of this letter whether his son had any consideration in where he personally wanted to go to college, and did the writer write his son’s application, and did he appear for his son’s interview in Dr. White's office, or what? The writer says that his son came to Davidson rather than a northern college at an increased expense. Though Davidson may pride itself unduly and naively in being among the finest in the South, she does rightly pride herself in offering prospective students, as opposed to parents, a less expensive education than most northern schools. All I can add is in the letter’s own words: “... if one knew more concerning the writer's history this type of vicious expression might be explained.”

Hank Ackerman

Orr

Dear Editor:

Last Friday there appeared in THE DAVIDSONIAN an indictment of Rick von Unwerth dealing indirectly with a very basic question—that of the purpose of a college education. I speak of Dr. F. D. Hurd’s letter admonishing the editor to refrain from allowing such “untypical” articles to appear in future DAVIDSONIANs. Dr. Hurd’s use of the phrase “to get away,” used in connection withComing to a southern college conflicts rather sharply with my opinion on the purpose of college. To attend college is “to enter;” it is to enter the realm of learning with its ideas, its ideals, its capacities, its personalities, but above all, with its questions. There is no valid reason (except for the facade of tradition) why southern colleges such as Davidson cannot or should not be concerned with the questions facing our nation today. The race dispute is the momentous question of our generation, and it cannot be decided, or even dealt with, without the “individuals” from whom Dr. Hurd would seek to escape. It is through the efforts and abilities of active, interested individuals that an eventual solution to the Negro problem will be evolved, not through the distant, disinterested passivism which constitutes such a large bloc of America’s reaction. I further disagree with Dr. Hurd’s contention that the article by Mr. von Unwerth was “very radical and explosive,” even for an institution such as Davidson. Ours is an exciting and controversial era in which von Unwerth’s opinions and modes of expression are as widespread as the daily task of brushing one’s teeth. His thoughts represent the views of thinking people, and there is no basis for an assumption that admission to Davidson automatically curtails the thought process. I certainly hope that von Unwerth's article is typical of Davidson, because while few of us have contributed significantly to the body of world thought, many students at Davidson are interested and sometimes active participants in the struggles of our society, from which we do not wish to be sheltered. There is one final point which I feel should not be dwelt on, but neither should it be overlooked. My respect for Dr. Hurd's intelligence and education restrains me from any personal criticism based on the contents of one short letter. However, I feel a man of Dr. Hurd's professional standing, if sincerely interested in any subject, should spend more time in the preparation of his theme than did Dr. Hurd. The style and form of his remarks detract markedly from the impact of his censure.

David Orr

Baum Seeks Open Basketball Drills

Dear Editor:

After having studied several hours in the afternoon, I decided to take a short break. Realizing that the basketball team had started practicing, I decided to go down to the gym and watch the team work out for a while. However, I was cogently informed that the practice was a closed one and that no one was to be allowed to even watch the team practice from the balcony. They said that the coach, (Drissell, I believe is his name) had told them to let no one watch the practice. I checked my schedule of basketball games and found that the first one was only 37 days away. Now, I can definitely see the need for a closed practice for a few days previous to some major game, but starting this procedure at this point seems a little ridiculous to me. The school pays a lot of money to have a good basketball team and I am sure that we all benefit a lot from this program. But it does seem that we the students should be able to see the team perform at other times than at the regular ball games—a team that has definite All-American potential among its members. Could it be that the presence of “outsiders” would cramp the style of the above-named coach? Perhaps even by just watching the team practice, we of less outstanding athletic ability could pick up a few pointers and would thus come to enjoy our own attempts at the game more when we had a chance to play a simple pickup game. Also, we might just absorb some of the coach’s knowledge of the game and thus improve even further our own game. But as it was this afternoon and as it has been for several other previous afternoons this year, this mode of self-improvement is being prevented by the obstinate rulings by the man in charge.

John Baum

"Of an opinion is, that it is robbing the human race; those who dissent from the opinion, still more than those who hold it. If the opinion is right, they are deprived of the opportunity of exchanging error for truth: if wrong, they lose what is as great a benefit, the clearer perception and livelier impression of its collision with error.” (John Stuart Mill in “On Liberty”)

BY BILL HUFFORD

The state legislators of North Carolina have now deemed what ideas shall or, more properly, what ideas shall not be heard in the state-supported universities. In a brief 39-minute period near the close of last year’s state legislature, the first step was taken toward the destruction of academic freedom on the state campuses of North Carolina. In railroading the bill through, there was no discussion, and no state college or university was given the opportunity to express its views. In fact, the leading educators of the state were not told of the bill's existence until after it was passed. The law (HR 1385), commonly called the “gag law,” prohibits from state-supported campuses all speakers who (1) are known members of the Communist party, (2) advocate the overthrow of the Constitution of the United States or the State of North Carolina, or (3) have pleaded the Fifth Amendment with respect to questions about communist or subversive activities. Reaction to the law has not been exactly mild. Newspapers (The Charlotte Observer for one), educators, and even the State Board of Higher Education have clamored for its repeal. Not only must the institutions refrain from having such speakers, but they are also given the task to enforce it. President D. Grier Martin comments on the situation: “Under this law, it will almost be necessary for the universities to send out questionnaires to the prospective speakers, resulting in many speakers saying, ‘To heck with it.’” Answering whether there is a chance for repeal of the gag law, Martin continues, “There is some chance, but not a first-class chance. Maybe in the future it can be modified. If it isn’t modified, North Carolina will have a rough time getting speakers and faculty members.”

DAVIDSON'S GAG

The “gag rule” doesn’t apply to Davidson. But how about us? Are we in actuality better off than the state colleges? Davidson has never had a communist on campus to speak, nor until last year had the possibility ever been considered. Danny Carrell, last year’s Student Council president, presented a list of controversial speakers to President Martin. A communist was on that list. All the speakers were approved except for the communist. John Spratt, Student Council current president, believes Carrell did have trouble last year on speakers. “I think,” said Spratt, “that there was a compromise last year: James Farmer (head of CORE) and somebody from ADA (Americans for Democratic Action) instead of the communist.” Many students have suspected that Davidson has a fixed policy banning communists from the campus. This, however, is not quite true. But the school does wish to review any proposed controversial speaker. Both Spratt and Martin call it an understanding. “Nobody,” emphasized Spratt, “told me to do it (see Martin about speakers). But this is the most reasonable approach.” There are many reasons why President Martin has hesitated on giving the green light to a communist speaker. “The big thing,” believes Spratt, “is that Martin would get 10,000 letters if one communist speaker came here. That's trouble!” The main thing is this—the president gets hit from both sides. “There are a lot of conflicting problems,” said Martin, “and these make it difficult for me.” Walking the fence is not a very pleasant vocation.

GAG LOOSENING?

What about the future? Are we going to be allowed to hear opinions radically different from those the administration, trustees, and alumni hold? This year the Student Council has asked President Martin to allow a city councilman of New York City in the 1930s, Benjamin R. Davis, to speak in chapel. Davis was and is a communist. Martin's answer should come this week. Davidson has come a long way in the past few years in presenting speakers whose opinions differ from the college's. This week will be crucial in determining whether the campus of a private institution is a freer sounding board for unpopular ideas than campuses dictated to by politicians.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Chapel Culture Huckster Wasted Worthless Words

Newcomer

Dear Editor:

There is something crass about a man who deprecates crass materialism, yet offers the remedy of bigger crowds for culture. Tuesday's Dale Carnegie of the Arts cries for more faces at plays, more ears at concerts, more blinking, gazing eyes at art galleries. He equates the culture boom with culture. But is not the truth, O worm in sheep’s clothing, rather that where two or three are gathered at a play—and grasp its meaning—culture is in the midst of them. Call that culture. A man who campaigns for culture speaks in tongues like, “all H—busted loose...” or “Culture-wise we must consider...” If materialism is the cancer of culture, then why judge the success of culture on the number, the material total, of those who attend it, of the collected conglomerated heap that stuff a theater with straw people? And, O ‘non-philistine,” a correlation between the deluge of crime in America and the dearth of culture in America is something very unconvincing. Hardly a valid cause and effect. How does culture cure crime? Was not Louis XIV a paragon of the cultured criminal? No, the absence of culture is not the fall of society, nor then is the presence of culture the salvation of society. Preach culture as the salvation of the 1930s, the land of Beethoven and Kant, the fountainhead of much of the West's best philosophy, music, theology, and art, and then the land of Hitler. Culture is not a redeemer, and it does not filter down to the masses via museums, junior leagues, book study groups, or writers leagues composed of daffodil-hatted widows. Let the pudding be the proof. Who now will attend a play because of Tuesday's pep-talk for culture? Few. But listen to Eudora Welty murmur a short story, or hear Rhodes Scholar-novelist Reynolds Price read a paper on aesthetics, or hear a poem read, and then culture will kindle its own fire in man. Culture is its own best advocate, it needs no salesman.

Duncan Newcomer