BARRY TEAGUE “Still the heads-up scrambler”

Cats Open Ambitious Season

BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

In what is fast becoming a one-sport town, the moment of truth is here. This year’s basketball season is underway and the show is bigger and better than ever. Having rolled over Hampden-Sydney last Saturday night, the ‘Cats play Wake Forest in the Charlotte Coliseum tomorrow night at 8.

Last year saw a surprising break into the big time as Davidson beat Duke, finished second in the Southern Conference, and compiled a 20-7 record. Coach Driesell was named outstanding Southern Conference coach, and Fred Hetzel was named outstanding Southern Conference player, leading Conference scorer, and first team all-tournament.

This year’s club is under a lot of pressure to produce. Gone from last year’s team is center Bill Jarman, holder of several Davidson records and a man surely to be missed. But Jarman’s departure is also the occasion for Dick Snyder's appearance as a varsity performer. Snyder, a 6'5” sophomore labeled as “can’t miss,” led the freshman team last year with a 25.9 scoring average and was also the top rebounder. Snyder has already moved into this year’s line-up.

In addition to the untried Snyder, the remainder of last year’s team returns. Led by Fred Hetzel, probably the most outstanding Davidson athlete to have put on a uniform in recent history, the ‘Cats hope to send a team on the floor which will surpass last year’s. Hetzel, who last year rewrote practically all of the Davidson individual single game and season's scoring records plus nabbing several conference honors, has put on several good pounds and his early season practice sessions can best be summed up in the words of an expert but neutral observer (who shall go unnamed), “I don’t think I’ve ever seen him work so hard before. I don’t know; something just seems different from last year. He’s just unbelievable.”

Perhaps these words seem to glow but somehow a ball player like Hetzel often carries an image of effortless ease with him, an image that seems to say, “It’s so easy, I’m not really trying.”

Holding up the big end along with Hetzel is captain Terry Holland. Holland suffered a broken nose in early practices but has fully recovered. In fact, as another observer commented, “More than fully recovered.” Holland this year will move to the pivot to team with Hetzel. Although this move will probably rob Holland of some of his previous court sureness, he’s already demonstrated an amazing tapping and rebounding touch. And can he run!

Filling the guard-forward slot will be last year’s almost forgotten man, Don Davidson. Perhaps forgotten isn’t the right word—underrated. For in Davidson, the ‘Cats had a ballplayer who could rebound, play defense, and drive. “Had,” because something must be added; this year he can shoot and has done so all fall.

The guard spot belongs to Barry Teague. Teague last year made the all-tournament second team and proved to be a steady ballhandler and a top competitor. This year is no different. Teague, still the heads-up scrambler, although not a big scorer, will have to be the man who makes the team go.

Backing up and perhaps replacing these fine starters are three experienced men. Charlie Marcon, who plays guard, forward, shoots well, and rebounds exceptionally for a guard, has provided and will provide good scoring punch and an exciting brand of ball. Bill Beermann, one of two seniors on the team, also plays either guard or forward. A former winner of the foul shooting trophy and one of the finest shots on the team, Beermann should give the ‘Cats excellent depth and valuable experience.

The biggest surprise this year could be Paul Briggs. Briggs, who has seen only limited action in the past, has developed into a good ball player. He’s 6'5”, can rebound, shoot, and from all appearances has learned his way around the court. Cam Harkness and Ronnie Stone round out this year's team. Both of these boys are sophomores and at this stage only time will tell.

Perhaps with this short recap, a word is necessary on Coach Driesell. This is his third year at Davidson and his record up until now has been 43 and 31. This year’s team is the first that he has exclusively recruited. Well, now he comes to win. This year’s team is similar to last year’s team in many ways but there are some real differences. This year’s team will run unlike any Davidson team. This year’s team will shoot better and play defense better, but most important of all, this year’s team has matured.

And just what are the weaknesses that this team must overcome? The biggest problem will be rebounding. Although this year’s team will be big, they will not be exceptionally tall. Some of this year’s opponents will be taller and bigger. The second problem is the schedule. It’s tough. This year’s opponents include Ohio State, Big Ten co-champions; Southwest Conference champion Texas; Princeton, Ivy League titlist; West Virginia, Southern Conference champion; and Duke, ranked number three in the nation and heavy favorite to repeat in the Atlantic Coast Conference. Add to this schedule St. Joseph's and Wake Forest and subtract the fact that the Cinderella team is no longer an unknown princess and it will be a long, rough schedule.

A lot of people expect an awful lot from this year’s team and any defeat will be a disappointment. But all the student and alumni disappointment shouldn’t match that of the players of this team if they fail to use the ability that they possess. Ability they have.

LEFTY DRIESELL “He comes to win.”

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

ASSASSINATION: A SOBER RESPONSE (See Page Two)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1963
NUMBER TWELVE

In the wake of the release of mid-semester grades, 50 Davidson students now find themselves on the precarious status of being on academic probation. Broken down by classes, this number includes 17 freshmen, seven sophomores, 14 juniors, and 16 seniors.

In order to be placed on probation this year, a student must fail to earn grades representing at least 12 semester hours and nine quality points. The 12:9 requirement was adopted this fall to replace the nine-six requirement in effect last year. Much pressure was exerted on the faculty before their meeting on Nov. 5 of this year to go back to the nine-six standard; however, the majority felt that this was unrealistic.

Last year at this time there were only 16 men in all four classes on AP. But, also, last year under the nine-six rule, a student could receive two C’s, a D, and two F’s and still be considered in good standing, i.e., not on AP.

In commenting on the rather large number of seniors on AP, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts suggested that some may have already earned their required 124 quality points for graduation and now feel free to “coast.”

At that same faculty meeting on Nov. 5, three other significant changes were adopted in regard to AP:
1. A student can go on or off AP at either mid- or end-of-semester. Under the change that would have gone into effect, a student could go on AP, but not off at mid-semester.
2. The six-weeks freshman grade reports will be completely unofficial. Last year, these reports placed many freshmen on AP.
3. A student on AP can now represent the college in off-campus school-sponsored activities, as long as he does not miss any classes. Thus the major consequence of being placed on AP is being prohibited from cutting any classes.

The results of the first two of these changes have already been seen. Of 24 freshmen placed on AP at the end of the first six-weeks (before the faculty approved the most recent changes), 13 of them are no longer on AP at the mid-semester report. Of the three seniors carried over on AP from last year, two have been dropped from probation at mid-semester, instead of waiting until the end of the semester.

In an interview before Thanksgiving, Dean Burts also answered questions concerning the “underachievement” program. In August a letter was sent to 93 of Davidson's 500 rising sophomores and juniors informing them that they were producing grades far below their expected capacities.

In discussing both the programs of underachievement and academic probation, Dean Burts emphasized that neither was intended as a student harassment. Nor is either based particularly on a field study of similar programs at other colleges. Rather, both are products of Davidson's own situation and the selective admissions program in effect since...1956. With better students and improving faculty and curriculum, the college is now more concerned with academic achievement than was ever necessary. These two programs are expressions of this concern, Dean Burts said, as means of prodding students to improve; or else to make way for perhaps more able and ambitious ones. Also, these two programs serve as forceful reminders to students of the requirements for class promotion. Dean Burts commented that he has had experience in the past with students failing to have the hours required for graduation or promotion, complaining to the college for not warning and pushing them. This warning and pushing is now being done at Davidson “before it is too late,” states Burts. A committee to study the entire scope of the academic question at Davidson was authorized at the last faculty meeting.

JOHN KNOWLES “from Exeter to Davidson”

Assassination Cuts Grid Season Short
BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

On a Saturday when few people cared about football, Davidson’s season ended—no contest. This year's final record was 1-5-2. It was a year characterized by bad breaks, bad football, grumbles, and a great deal of disappointment. Probably as no other dismal football season, this one was the most disappointing. Early season practice and scrimmages had pointed to a fine year. In fact, I believe this team was the best Davidson team I have seen in five years. I said, “was,” because at season’s end, it was not. What happened on the way? Now that the year is over, almost anyone can have a guess. I doubt if there is any simple answer.

The season was not without its high spots. Unfortunately, perhaps the highest was pre-season and didn’t even count, but several people saw a Davidson team that looked pretty good. Certainly, the season’s high must have been reached, however, in the VMI game. But ties just aren't like wins; they leave a funny taste. Neither was the season without its low moments. A rainy afternoon with The Citadel; a ninety-yard (plus) runback of a blocked field goal; a missed field goal in the last seconds of the PC game; and a Friday night in Charlotte.

Football season is over and so is football for twelve seniors. Billy Mills, who came from the flickerball fields to become quite an end both offensively and defensively, Bill Dole, who lettered three years as a varsity lineman and had the toughest time for that, Jim Fuller, halfback, fullback, end, tackle, linebacker, and punter but never runner like at Furman a long time ago, Britt Smith, top center and outstanding linebacker, whose defensive skills were prohibited by an auto accident, Barry Billington, a halfback hampered by injuries, Dave Lopp, another back perhaps just too small to withstand injury who never saw his best game, Morris Williams, who after the whistle blew wanted to win most of all, Benny Coxton, probably the finest natural football player to ever show at Davidson and yet no one can say how good he could have been, Dick Fuip, probably the one man who can say he did so much and got so little, Joe Jones, another three-year performer who battled his way into the number one backfield, Earl Cole, who proved to be an outstanding defensive, as well as offensive, standout and was recently elected co-captain, Russell Walls, the other co-captain has made the all-academic Southern Conference team, was recently tapped into Omicron Delta Kappa, received the Earl Blaik award, and was a fine football player.

This season's record looms prominently as a dark disappointment. I think it all started on a bitter night against Furman, a night in which Davidson was beaten but not really outplayed. That team and the team that tied VMI could have put together a winning season; they didn’t. And because they didn’t, it was a long autumn for about 40 boys and some very long Saturdays for some of the student body. Just one last word. Several of the 12 departing seniors came to Davidson and loved the game of football. They were paid for playing. But they worked for their money. A small trip to any of many practice sessions will make this quite clear. The only thing I'd like to know is how many still love football?

The National Football Foundation this week awarded two scholarship grants to senior guard Russell Walls. Walls was one of nine college football players in the country selected for the Earl Blaik Fellowship, a $500 grant to go toward advanced study which is awarded on the basis of scholastic standing, football ability, and leadership. He was the only player selected for the Medical Economic Inc. grant, a $2,500 scholarship presented to a pre-med student. Walls will fly to New York for three days in December to accept his awards and to meet Blaik, former Army football coach.

John Knowles, noted author and world traveler, will be on campus next Tuesday, Dec. 2, to discuss his first and most famous novel, A Separate Peace, which was chosen the YMCA’s Book-of-the-Semester. Knowles will speak in chapel Tuesday morning on the subject, “Aggression in the light of former President Kennedy's assassination and A Separate Peace.” He will speak that night at 8 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union. His subject there will be “Why Read Novels? Why Write Novels?”

After living three years as a world itinerant, Knowles has ceased traveling for a year to become the first writer-in-residence at UNC, where he conducts one small writing class, lectures, and confers with individuals about their writing. “I write out of feeling. I don’t write thoughtfully,” stated Knowles in a recent conversation. “I start with environment and work out a story—a plot—and characters which seem to capture the essence of the environment,” he continued.

Knowles' first novel, the current Book-of-the-Semester, is unusual in that the first work of an author elevated him to national fame. Hailed by critics as forming with Golding’s Lord of the Flies and Salinger’s Catcher in the Rye a triad of the most-read collegiate material, the work is similar in background and setting to Catcher in the Rye. A Separate Peace is set in a New England boys’ preparatory school. It captured the 1960 Rosenthal Award of the National Institute of Arts and Letters, as well as the first award of the William Faulkner Foundation for a writer's first novel.

Knowles attended Phillips Exeter Academy and graduated from Yale University. His second novel, Morning in Antibes, was published in 1962. He is working on a third during his year as writer-in-residence at UNC. He has just completed his first non-fiction work, Double Vision: American Thoughts Abroad. It concerns life in the Near East, where Knowles spent his last two years, as seen from an American angle. Sections of the book are currently appearing in Holiday and Horizon magazines; the entire book will be published next June.

According to Book-of-the-Semester Chairman Sid Moore, his committee selected Knowles’ book because of its timely subject and its popularity with college readers in particular. Others on the Book-of-the-Semester committee are Dr. Wesley Tilley, advisor; Gordon Ball and Dick Levy. Moore is already planning for next semester's feature book. They are hoping to have either The Making of a President, 1960, by Theodore White, or A Nation of Sheep, by William Lederer.

Serge Lentz, the most recent Western journalist to penetrate the interior of Communist China, will relate his experiences during a recent three-week stay there in chapel tomorrow. Posing as a textile buyer, he got a literal Red carpet treatment as he toured the cities of Shanghai, Canton, and Peking and made side trips to the rural regions of the People’s Republic. One night as Lentz was sleeping in a Canton hotel, two secret service agents woke him and took him to another room in the hotel where they grilled him for several hours on his activities. Lentz was released at 4 a.m. He quickly gathered his notes and film and made his escape by train to Hong Kong. Though he had to leave his luggage behind, he managed to assemble his cameras and made arrangements for his films to be smuggled out to him. Walter Cronkite interviewed Lentz Sept. 11 on his CBS television news program. In addition to 40 American newspapers, Newsweek magazine and the Saturday Evening Post reviewed his adventures.

SERGE LENTZ
“Burns hot trail after grilling”