FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

Conference All Games
W L Pct. W L Pct.
West Va. 10 2 .833 16 7 .696
Davidson 7 3 .700 17 6 .739
Wm. & Mary 7 4 .636 14 9 .609
G. Wash. 6 4 .600 8 12 .400
Furman 8 6 .571 13 8 .619
Va. Tech 6 5 .545 10 10 .500
Va. Military 3 10 .231 4 13 .235
Richmond 2 9 .182 6 14 .300
The Citadel 2 10 .167 4 13 .235

BY BILL PRIDGEN
Sports Editor

Coach “Lefty” Driesell’s Davidson Basketballers close out their fabulous 1963 season with the luckless Bulldogs from The Citadel in Johnston
Gymnasium at 8 p.m.

Riding high on the crest of a six-game winning streak, and a spectacular victory over Wake Forest Wednesday night, the
'Cats have only to down the 'Dogs to wind up with an 18-6 record, best in the school’s basketball history.
Although the hapless Bulldogs only possess a 2-19 record, this is no sign that the game will be an easy
one for the ’Cats. Earlier in the season at the Bulldogs' home lair at Charleston, S. C., Driesell’s boys were
only able to squeak out a 50-49 victory in a slow game of possession ball that went down to the
wire.

Since their last Davidson game, the Bulldogs have been containing tough competition. In their last three games, with George Washington,
VMI, and Furman, the point spread has not been over four points. An added incentive to the Bulldogs is the
fact that this is their last chance to escape the conference cellar and earn a berth in the tournament next
weekend.

The ‘Cats, who with their 7-3 conference record have assured themselves second seating in the conference tournament, will be out
to finish off their season with a big win—the ‘Cats have been unbeatable on home territory this year.

Wednesday night saw a hard-working ’Cat quint drop “Bones” McKinney’s Demon Deacons from Wake Forest 90-75 in one of the
highlight games of the season. Never in danger after a late first half surge put them in front 38-29, Coach
“Lefty” Driesell’s team showed that they were really “up for this one.” Dick Snyder pumped in 32 points for the
victors and Ronnie Stone put in another 23.

Barry Teague, starting for the first time since January, looked as good as he did in the Duke game. Big
guns for the ‘Cats were Bill Jarman and Fred Hetzel. Jarman, playing one of his best games of the season,
scored 30, his season high, and Hetzel added 22 more.

The game gave the ‘Cats a fine comeback for last year’s 93-63 loss to the Deacons. At a halftime ceremony,
senior guard Danny Carrell was presented with a Sports Illustrated award for his fine performance as an athlete and a
Rhodes Scholar winner.

A GOOD NIGHT

It looked like a good night after seven minutes of the first half with the score 12-7, Davidson leading. It
looked like a better night at the half with Davidson 37, Wake 28. With ten minutes left to play and
the ’Cats out in front 63-51, the night looked even better. And when that horn went off with the scoreboard
showing 90-75, nobody in the world could have told us it wasn’t a good night. (For Davidson, that is.)

It reminded us of another similar night about two months ago at the same place when the victim was Duke.
There weren't quite as many people perhaps, and perhaps there wasn’t quite the same tenseness and anticipation, but the feeling
was the same when it was over.

The most obvious thing that we noticed about the ‘Cats’ playing was their hustle. They were up for the game
and played a hard game all the way. Everybody played top-notch ball, but it was pretty obvious as to who
was the big man on the court. Bill Jarman didn't miss many, and when he did he was usually fouled.
And he didn’t miss any of those foul shots. His thirty points is reminiscent of the last Wake-Davidson clash, where
he also scored thirty, although the other aspects of that game weren't so pleasant.

We rather enjoyed the verbal war between “Bones” McKinney and “Lefty” Driesell that went on in the papers over the
past week. Both Driesell and McKinney are colorful coaches and often make some amusing comments.

We are especially glad that we won that one because our comments last week sort of set us out on
a limb. If we had lost we probably would have had to turn in our jock. Not meaning to rub
it in, but we would like to ask one question, “Is there anyone who still says we can’t play ‘Big
Four’ ball?”

On the basis of past performances in the annual classic, Davidson's Wildcats will be battling heavy odds when they begin
play at Richmond in the Southern Conference tournament, Feb. 28. Davidson has lost 10 of the 12 games she has
played in the tournament and by virtue of her poor records has qualified to appear in only 16 of the
43 tournaments played since 1921.

Barring any big upsets this conference, members, other than Davidson, will be competing for the title.Here is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Earlier in the weekend, Davidson will meet West Virginia, which Coach Harry Fogleman has contacted. The Queens College tennis team,
and these young ladies, all dressed in white, will be put in charge of keeping up with the Indoor Track
Meet last weekend at Chapel Hill. Martin sprinted the last lap to finish third in the 2-mile run with a
fine 9:50 clocking. Sophomore teammate Chester Davis finished with a time of 10:26. Tom Heffner, another sophomore, ran the mile
in 4:38, winding up in fifth place.

But it was in the sprints that Davidson reached its glory, thanks to the efforts of sophomore Alan Turner. Turner
got two-thirds of Davidson's total points.

Shue's Mermen Set For Tough VPI Clash

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Sports Staff Writer

Losing 57-38 yesterday to a strong William and Mary team, the Davidson College Swimming Team travels to Blacksburg, Va. on
Monday to meet VPI in another Southern Conference meet. Without the services of Steve Davidson and Dan Campbell, a couple
of strong sophomore sprinters, the ‘Catfish really felt their absence in absorbing their fifth defeat in seven outings. Leading the
’Cats were Dick Fromm with a first in the diving and Jim Grey with a first in the 200 Free
with a time of 2:09. Leading the Indians was Ron Good who took firsts in the 50 and 100 Freestyle
events, edging out Carter Mebane in both events. On their Georgia trip, Mebane, senior captain of the ‘Cat swimmers, bettered
the old Davidson 50 Free mark with a time of 23.7, but lost the race by .2 of a second.
Mebane has been Davidson's most consistent performer. Fromm, a junior from Richmond, Va., has shined in the diving event, winning
2 of 3 events on the Georgia trip, after having a bout with the flu. Dwight Shoe, the Davidson mentor,
not too pleased with his team’s record, stated: “The team definitely needs more depth and experience. Within the next two
years, we should gain this depth and be a consistent contender for the Southern Conference title; we are picking up
three top-notch freshmen in Waldon, Jim Stokes, Joe Hensley, and Mark who should help us out tremendously.” Returning from VPI,
the Davidson mermen will play host to VMI before traveling to Charleston to the Southern Conference Meet, March 7, 8,
and 9.

Since Feb. 5, Davidson's tennis team of four lettermen, five sophomores, and one returnee, has been working out under the
direction of coach Harry Fogleman. The team started conditioning in the gymnasium, but with the advent of some good weather,
they've been working out on the hard courts at North Mecklenburg.

Davidson's Wildcat basketball squad received added recognition recently when they were featured in a layout in Sporting News (page 27).
This layout features sophomore star Fred Hetzel and Captain Bobby Austell. Coach “Lefty” Driesell, senior Bill Jarman, and other ‘Cat
basketballers get recognition. The layout is a fine compliment to Davidson's best season ever in basketball.

NETMEN JUMPING ROPE? — This is what it has been like at the gym for the past couple of weeks
as Coach HARRY FOGLEMAN gets his boys in shape for this spring. Team Captain BOBBY AUSTELL doesn’t seem to be
enjoying his pastime greatly—nor the sit-ups, or the pushups, or the weight lifting. However, Coach Fogleman refuses to be pessimistic
about his team's chances for a good season. “Last year, we won eight and lost ten. The boys hope we
will never have another losing record at Davidson,” he said.

Coach Fogleman hopes to be able to start playing on the new courts at Davidson, which have yet to be
worked completely into shape. “When we get these courts in shape, and the stands built,” Coach Fogleman said, “we're going
to have one of the finest college tennis layouts in the country.”

The members of the squad are: Bobby Austell, John Ariail, Frank Baumgardner, Bill Backlund, Gene McCutchen, Bob Orr, Rick Reed,
Bill Wideman, Joe Wolfe, and Bill Schutt.

All freshmen interested in playing baseball this spring report to the gym for a meeting on Tuesday afternoon at 3:15
(Feb. 26).

---

Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II, and Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Rent a car the BUDGET Way, less per
mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you need. We Feature Free Hotel and Airport Pickup and Delivery
Service. 376-0213

---

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

---

SEEMINGLY SUSPENDED IN MID-AIR, CARTER MEBANE, Captain of the local tankmen, takes a practice start. MEBANE came within two-tenths of
a second from breaking the 25 yd. freestyle while on the team trip to Georgia. Swimmer in background is either
extremely shy or wiping the water from his eyes. (Staff Photo by Buck Lawrimore)

---

take a break...things go better with Coke
Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by:
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina
