THE VAGABOND STORY (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON RELAYS TOMORROW (See Page Three)

VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1963 NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

DRAMA NOT THE ISSUE
Display Questions Role Of Liberal Arts Institution

“Drama is only a segment of a larger problem: the role of the arts in a Liberal Arts College.” These
words are written on a bulletin board in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center, a bulletin board that has become a
magnet which is pulling in people from the town as well as students from the college to examine a display
set up by William F. Goodykoontz. On a wall in the classroom behind the Stowe Galleries, a central theme stands
out in Goodykoontz’s display—that there is a gap between the public image of Davidson College and the actual fact of
where it stands in giving precedent to the liberal arts.

“The bulletin board display,” Goodykoontz says, “is an attempt to present to anyone interested the spectacular examples of the image-fact
gap.” On the wall, Goodykoontz has assembled many statements by the college administration on the goals Davidson is striving toward,
and he has tried to prove that the public image thus created is not in accord with actual practice here
by citing various instances from the long-embroiled drama program controversy. And while he indicates his efforts stem from his frustration
in his attempt to develop what he considers to be a desirable drama program here, much more than drama is
included. He contends that drama is not his sole concern: “Anyone who looks more closely will be struck at once,
I think, by perhaps the most immediately serious of all our problems (because it creates complacency and makes necessary changes
more difficult): the widening gap between the DAVIDSON IMAGE and the DAVIDSON REALITY.”

Goodykoontz's investigation into creative fields other than drama may prove interesting to students. For instance, Goodykoontz has assembled on a
table different creative magazines and publications from other institutions such as Wake Forest, Georgetown University, the University of North Carolina,
and Hollins College. Even some high school publications are included.

By TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

“Love one another... I have nothing significant to add.” A college employee told Kays Gary of the Charlotte Observer, “Well,
I can tell you one thing. He could have done better than that.” Gary replied to that in his column
in three words that have become rather well-known: “Oh, Goodykoontz also brings out the fact that Davidson abolished Senior Class
Day in 1961 following two speeches and just this year the IFC abolished the skits as a part of Greek
Week. He states that he has made these points about the college in the desire “to stimulate thought and discussion
about some specific issues, with the hope that out of such thought and discussion gain may be made towards making
Davidson a better liberal arts college.”

Posted on one part of the board is the magazine Think, which is published by IBM. The magazine, which is
devoted almost exclusively to the subject of creativity, sums up the creative man as one who is critical, asks the
“wrong” questions, has a highly-developed aesthetic sense, who participates, not being passive about issues, who needs freedom to develop, and
is instinctive and individualistic. Goodykoontz asks one particular question of Davidson with his controversial bulletin board: Is this school really
helping to build creativity among its students? Goodykoontz also suggests an answer to the question, a negative answer. But the
final judge of that answer must be each observer who examines Goodykoontz’s work.

Executive Weekend

J. Robert Sailstad, director of this year’s Executive Weekend, has announced that 40 leading businessmen in professional and civic fields
will be at Davidson Friday and Saturday, May 3-4. Their schedule for the weekend includes three lectures, discussion groups, recreational
relaxation, and special luncheons. These are designed as a combination of activities that will provide intellectual stimulation and study in
those areas outside each man’s vocational specialization.

The college's planning committee for the Executive Weekend has selected four widely diversified subjects as the topics for the four
separate discussion groups. These study programs will be led by Davidson professors Drs. William B. Hight, William T. Lammers, Joe
Embry, and Richard Butwell. Dr. Hight will lead a discussion on “The American Economy in the Next Decade.” Dr. Lammers
will discuss “The Role of the United States in World Affairs.” Dr. Embry will lead a discussion on “The Existentialist
Posture,” and Dr. Butwell will discuss “The American Dilemma in Southeast Asia.”

Each of the participants in Dr. Embry’s group will receive as subject sources The Stranger by Camus and The Existentialist
Posture by Shinn. Richard Butwell’s Southeast Asia Today and Tomorrow is one of the background texts that Dr. Marrotte, associate
professor of history, will use in discussing “The American Dilemma in Southeast Asia.” Each executive may attend one or more
of these lecture-discussion sessions. All necessary reference sources that will accompany each individual talk will be provided for the executives
by the college.

The entire conference is modeled on a similar affair sponsored by the Aspen Institute, Aspen, Colo. That particular event was
held for three weeks and was centered on academic endeavors. The Davidson Executive Weekend will be in the Cunningham Fine
Arts Center, with some sessions expected to be held in the band room. This weekend, coupled with the 1-2-6 Club's
conference May 10 and the Alumni Weekend June 7-9, are all a part of Davidson's endeavor to make available to
its students and alumni a broad range of intellectual and cultural experiences.

FIRE!

Fellow Davidson students use old sacks to beat out a fire which broke out Tuesday afternoon. The fire, which blazed
during Davidson's baseball game with Georgia Southern, was north of and downhill from the baseball field. (Staff Photo by Raynal)

NSA, B'nai B'rith Announce Award

Should private businessmen in Charlotte restrict motels, and restaurants on basis of race? Four Davidson students went into Charlotte last
Saturday afternoon to join Johnson C. Smith University students in picketing segregated facilities, giving a negative answer to the above
question of social justice. This week a polling of faculty members indicated that a majority of them would give the
same answer.

Knox Abernethy, Bill Denham, Bill Ferris, and Charles Ramberg intended to join the picketing planned by approximately 100 students, nearly
all students at the colored university, but reluctantly accepted the decision of Negro leader Dr. R. A. Hawkins to postpone
the picketing. This was done as a show of good faith to North Carolina Governor Terry Sanford and Charlotte Mayor
Stanford Brookshire. Sanford and Brookshire had asked for the delay while the Mayor's Community Relations Committee, headed by former Davidson
president Dr. John R. Cunningham, attempted to get statements from owners of the involved facilities opening them to all races.

Wednesday, Cunningham and his committee extracted a promise from an unspecified number of Charlotte motel and hotel owners to desegregate
their facilities at the start of the North Carolina International Trade Fair which opens tomorrow in Charlotte. As of Wednesday
evening, Davidson students planned to attend a meeting at Johnson C. Smith last night to decide whether to picket or
not and commented that they would picket Saturday if it occurs.

President D. Grier Martin and ten faculty members were intended to join the picketing. A poll of faculty members revealed
their response on picketing and the participation of Davidson students in it. The questions were as follows:
1. Do you feel that segregated hotels, motels, and restaurants should be desegregated?
2. Do you feel that peaceful, demonstration picketing (the type that the Davidson students planned to participate in) is a
valid method to reach the goal of desegregation?
3. How do you feel about the participation of Davidson students in such picketing?

The first question drew a chorus of unqualified “yes” responses from Professors Drake, Maloney, Patterson, Polley, Ratliff, and Rhodes. Professors
Cole, Lammers, and Stroud agreed with the abstract concept of desegregation. “Segregation is wrong whenever it denies a man his
legal or moral rights,” stated Biology professor Lammers. Professor J. G. Martin said that it was completely up to the
owner of the facility involved, that it made no difference to him. President Martin was reluctant to state his personal
opinion, but said the following: “Davidson is desegregated and we have indicated by this action that as an institution we
favor desegregation.”

The second question provoked a discussion on the efficacy of picketing, the proper timing and use of it, and possible
use of alternative methods. English professor Cole commented while he felt the status quo is unmaintainable that he was against
picketing by anyone in any form. Lammers indicated that while he felt the status quo is unmaintainable, he was against
picketing by anyone in any form.

GORDON BALL (right) receives a handshake and the Vereen Bell Award for creative writing from author Reynolds Price at assembly
Tuesday. (Staff Photo by Raynal)

Price Presents Freshman With Vereen Bell Award

BY CARLTON COLE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Reynolds Price of the English department of Duke University presented the Vereen Bell Award for creative writing to freshman Gordon
Ball Tuesday during chapel. Second place went to Pat Douglas and third to Bill Ferris. Ball, a freshman, was born
in Patterson, N. J., but has lived since he was five in Tokyo, Japan. Most of his writing up to
now was done during his senior year in high school. Since coming to Davidson, Ball has been encouraged to write
by Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz. The winning story, “The Boy,” was selected from a number of entries submitted by Davidson
students.

Price listed three principle reasons for writing: to understand the mysterious; to explain what one has understood to a particular
person; and, in some way, to change something, the self, the particular person, someone else, or the world.Who Couldn't Understand,”
located in Tokyo, describes a high school boy’s feelings and actions when confronted with typical high school situations; the central
characters are a boy, Martin, with problems, and a girl, Evelyn, one of them. Douglas’ “The Year They Caught the
Cat” was the second place winner. The third prize won by Ferris was for the story, “What Folks Know Johnny
Lee.” In his talk to the student body before presenting Ball with the award, Price spoke about man and mystery
in art. He said that, though some people stop with the question of “How?” of a work of art, this
is cowardly and the further question “Why?” should also be asked. Price attended Duke University and went as a Rhodes
Scholar to Oxford. He has recently won the William Faulkner Award for the best first novel by an American in
1962 for his book A Long and Happy Life, the story of Rosacoke Mustian. Price has also won the Sir
Walter Raleigh award for writing. Price was on campus Monday and Tuesday for the presentation. Admitting that he did not
know all his reasons for writing, The National Student Association has joined with the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith in
sponsoring the Democratic Campus Award Contest. According to the contest rules, the project shall consist of any program which counters
discriminatory practices, whether this discrimination is based on color, religious beliefs, or national origin. All entries must consist of a
typed report, of at least 1,000 and not more than 3,500 words. Each entry must be accompanied by an official
entry blank, available through the Student Council. An entry blank must be properly signed by the Dean of Students. All
entries must be submitted to: DEMOCRATIC CAMPUS AWARD, USNSA, 3457 Chestnut St., Philadelphia 4, Penn.

Burts Gives News On Holiday Hooky
BY BILL LOGAN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts released figures this week on absences before and after holidays, as compiled from reports
of the faculty. The Dean's Office distributed a memorandum to the faculty on March 5 in order to make a
comparison of last year's (1961-62) total class absences before and after Thanksgiving and Christmas recess with this year’s (1962-63). Of
the 80 memoranda distributed, only 48 have been returned. Of these 48 faculty members reporting, 25 gave figures for both
last year and this year. The figures show that nine percent of the students enrolled were absent from class during
the two days before the 1961 Thanksgiving recess and nine percent were absent during the two days before the 1961
Christmas recess. But under this year’s new cut system, classes two days before holidays had absence rates of 19 and
23 percent, respectively. Absences for the two days following Thanksgiving recess decreased from 3.6 percent to 3.0 percent from 1961
to 1962, but they increased from 3.7 to 4.8 percent for the two days following Christmas recess. Last year’s absence
system called for double cuts to be given for absences within two days of a recess. There is no such
provision this year. Despite the increase in absences, the faculty favors the present system. The added freedom around holidays has
not appreciably affected the overall cutting among students. Among the many comments by professors were reports of a 51-man biology
class which averaged 2.6 absences per man and a math class of 18 sophomores who averaged only 0.8 absences each.
W. H. Tilley and H. S. Willcox, who are teaching at Davidson for their first year, both said they feel
that the present system is satisfactory. Professor A. G. Griffin, a veteran on the faculty, also supports the system. He
said, “No cut system is really satisfactory. I was not in favor of the old system, and although I'm not
happy with this system, I am willing to continue it.” Analyzing the problem of cutting before holidays, Griffin said, “Ideally,
class requirements are so stringent that a student dare not miss class. I question whether we have the rigor in
our work that we sometimes think we have. I don't regard a class before a holiday as any less important
than any other class. I think a professor is obligated to be serious in covering material, regardless of the number
of students absent.”

Ensemble To Give Outdoor Concert

The Davidson College Wind Ensemble will give an outdoor concert of folk music in front of the Cunningham Fine Arts
Building on Tuesday, April 30, at 7:15 p.m. The concert is the second in a series of three outdoor concerts
the Wind Ensemble is presenting this year. The third one will be on Sunday, May 19. The Ensemble will also
give a joint program with the Woman's College, U.N.C., Concert Band here on May 11. The folk music concert will
include Purcell’s “Trumpet Tune;” “Hall of the Mountain King” from Grieg’s Peer Gynt Suite; “M’sieu Bainjo,” a Creole folk tune;
“Doney Gal,” a cowboy ballad; and Sigmund Romberg’s “Student Prince.” The ensemble will also play David Bennett's “Broadcast from Brazil;”
Don Gillis’ “Spiritual,” from Symphony No. 5½, and Gould's “American Salute.” The group has played “American Salute” on tour two
years in succession.

Students, Faculty Mull Problem Of Integration

“The Negroes will lose a lot of good will by not waiting until such action can be voluntary on both
sides to maintain that good will,” he prophesied. A majority of those questioned, however, indicated that picketing has a definite
value and should be used. “Its efficacy has been demonstrated,” commented Patterson. Those favoring the use of picketing indicated that
the circumstances in which it is to be used must be considered to gain the most desirable results. Both Rhodes
and Ratliff cited situations in which picketing could have a detrimental effect when responsible people are working on another level,
such as on a committee like Cunningham's in Charlotte, for the same goal. Stressing the importance of maintaining the patronage
of their hotels, Maloney emphasized the role of such committees as Cunningham's. “Picketing is only a first step that helps
to formulate public opinion. Cunningham's committee is to be commended for the progress they have made toward desegregation in Charlotte.”

Director Of CORE To Speak Monday

James Farmer, national director of the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE), will speak in assembly next Monday, April 29. Farmer
led the original CORE Freedom Ride, beginning on May 4, 1961, in Washington, D. C., and was arrested on May
24th in Jackson, Miss. He spent some 40 days in various Mississippi jails and penitentiaries. Farmer has been one of
the pioneers in developing non-violent, direct action methods for race relations problems. He was one of the founders of CORE
in 1942 and served as the first National Chairman. Farmer also served as Race Relations Secretary of the Fellowship of
Reconciliation from 1941 to 1945. In the labor movement, he served in the southern organizing drive of the Upholsterers’ International
Union from 1946-1948. More recently he was International Representative of the State, County and Municipal Employees. Farmer, a former program
director of the NAACP, has lectured extensively and written for numerous publications including the Crisis, Fellowship, World Frontiers, Hadassah News,
and others. He was born in Texas in 1920 and was graduated from Wiley College in 1938 and from Howard
University in 1941.

Conservative Club Elects Dibble As New President
BY GEORGE FAIN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Conservative Club elected Charlie Dibble president at its meeting Tuesday night and John Curry vice-president. Other officers, all rising
juniors, for the coming year are Chip Tate, secretary, and Chester Davis, treasurer. The topic of the meeting was the
Hollins College Seminar on Russia, April 26-27. Dibble, from Sumter, S. C., is a history major. An Independent, he is
a managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and a member of Philanthropic Literary Society. He served as vice-president of the Conservatives
last year. Curry, from Huntington, W. Va., is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and plays on the soccer
team. The new secretary is Chip Tate from Salem, Va. Tate is a history major and a member of SAE
social fraternity. Davis, from Winston-Salem, is a pre-law student and served as secretary of the Conservative Club last year. He
is an Independent and participates in varsity track and debating. Also discussed at the meeting was the Hollins College Seminar
to be held at Hollins College, Va., on April 26-27. “An Examination of Soviet Russia” is the overall theme for
the weekend, and the seminar will feature three speakers prominent in Soviet-American relations and Russian studies. Dr. Lev E. Dobriansky,
professor of economics at Georgetown University, will speak on “What Americans Don’t Know about Russia” April 26 at 8 p.m.
Dr. Richard F. Staar, currently professor of Political Science at Emory University, will speak on “Soviet-American Relations” at 9 and
10:30 a.m. on April 27. On the same program, Dr. James W. Wiggins will speak on “Central Planning and the
Total State.” Wiggins is professor of sociology at Emory University. The lectures are open to the public, and the seminar
is sponsored by the Intercollegiate Society of Individualists and the Hollins Conservative Club. Davidson students planning to attend are Dick
Vorhees, John Curry, Chip Tate, Arnold Goodstein, and Woody Cleveland. Before turning the gavel over to incoming president Dibble, Vorhees
urged the members to strive to encourage real political thinking among students. Said Vorhees, “Davidson conservatism is strong, but like
everything else here it is too apathetic.”
