DEAN BURTS WRITES ON MAKING UP REVIEWS (See Page Two)

Vol. LI

Decided By Testing

Twelve Davidson freshmen are now enrolled in courses they might not have been required to take had the faculty voted
a year earlier to allow advanced standing for qualified freshmen. The faculty voted in its Jan. 22 meeting to begin
next fall to give qualified freshmen both advanced standing and full college credit in certain courses. Qualification will be determined
by scores on special tests administered to high school seniors by the College Entrance Examination Board.

According to President D. Grier Martin, “an overwhelming majority” favored the resolution. The ruling means that qualified freshmen will be
given full credit in hours for the courses they are permitted to skip. Because there is no limit on the
number of hours an entering student will be permitted to skip if he qualifies, a freshman could complete the basic
requirements in math, science, and history, for example, without taking any courses in those fields at Davidson.

Qualified freshmen can immediately move into the advanced courses in a subject area without taking the basic course under the
new regulation. To qualify for advanced standing and credit, an entering freshman must have scored a composite grade of four
or five (the highest possible scores) on a special test given by the College Board. The test is given at
the end of special high school courses under teachers designated by the CEEB. The work in such courses is beyond
normal high school requirements.

“Partial credit or full credit may be granted for the composite grade of three only if approved by the Dean
of the Faculty in consultation with the department concerned,” states the resolution passed by the faculty. For instance, a freshman
might be allowed to skip the first semester of the basic math course, receiving full credit for those three hours
only.

Twenty-four members of the present freshman class took the tests while in high school. Twelve made a score of four
or better on at least one of them. President Martin noted that most colleges and universities now give advanced standing
and credit or both. “I am pleased the faculty took this action,” he stated. “It brings us into a position
where we can attract even finer students than in the past.”

Council Requests Holiday Changes

Student body elections, the Board of Trustees meeting, and the college calendar were the topics discussed at Wednesday night’s Student
Council meeting. After looking over the tentative college calendar for next year, council members suggested a longer recess between semesters.
This could be done by shortening the Christmas holidays, they observed. The request will be forwarded to the faculty scheduling
committee.

An elections committee was appointed to work out the procedure for the nominations and voting next month. The committee hopes
to shorten the time required to complete all of the elections. Last year they lasted more than four weeks.

The council discussed plans for the Board of Trustees which meets here on Feb. 26. It was decided to let
the members eat at the fraternity houses instead of planning a special meal for them. President Sonny Carroll reported that
the chairman of the Board of Trustees, Dr. T. McDowell Richards, would be on campus Monday, Feb. 16, to speak
to the student body.

Only three students will represent Davidson at the mock UN Assembly in Chapel Hill on Feb. 20-23, John Spratt reported.
The council still hopes to put student representation on more faculty committees; however, some committees have not met to consider
the proposal. The next council meeting will be on Monday, Feb. 10.

Faculty Approves Advance Standing, May Ask Trustees To Act On Oath

Advanced Placement

Dormant Oath Issue Stirs Anew On Hill

The faculty oath issue is once again on campus. A group of faculty members who are against requiring the often-criticized
oath will bring up the question of its abolition in the faculty meeting next Tuesday. Should a majority of the
faculty express disapproval of the oath, the results of the faculty opinion will be sent to the trustees of the
college who will meet here on Feb. 26. Dr. William S. Cumming, a principal leader of the opposition, stated that
the faculty should not correspond.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

PLEDGE PIKAS — Bob Best and camera-wary Bob Renner supervise the service project labors of pledges St. Clair, Clark, and
Snider. The PIKAs ceased to be pledges as brotherly en-

Linker Plays Hero Snagging Burglars

Three men from the Davidson area have been convicted of stealing jewelry within the past year. The articles had been
reported missing either in front of the fraternity just before Christmas holidays and they disappeared. Security Officer B.N. Linker calculated
many unusual debts and accomplished through the week.

“On Jan. 16 sophomore Jimmy Jones’ bundle disappeared,” continued Linker. “The next day I noticed a Pennsylvania ‘96 Ford in
the Belk dorm parking lot and took down the license number. Later, Moore called me on Jan. 17 and reported
the missing laundry. After more investigation all over the campus, I traced the car and the license to a man
in Mooresville. We finally brought in Thomas Ervin and his brother-in-law, Thomas Barnett. Careful questioning got us nowhere, but one
policeman happened to notice the men’s undershirts and pulling back shirt sleeves.

“To our surprise, they had the laundry tags still attached to the stolen shirts,” Linker noted. “Later investigation linked Fred
Durgan to the theft, and the three were recently tried in court. Durgan was sentenced to 2 years in prison,
Ervin fined $240 plus court costs, and Barnett fined $100 plus court costs,” he concluded.

Annual Greek Week

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1965

NUMBER FOURTEEN

Week Of Projects, Skits And Duty Passes Quickly

Pledge activities of the 12 national fraternities at Davidson, is quickly drawing to a close, much to the relief of
some 200 weary freshmen. The busy week, which began with the IFC Pledge Banquet on Monday night, was filled with
anticipation. Wednesday’s skit night and the various service projects completed by the pledges at a local playground for colored children,
(staff photo by McCutcheon).

With a week to go, many of the Midwinters entertainment has canceled out. “No changes (in the Midwinters schedule, thank
goodness,” Rogers announced with fingers crossed. The schedule consists of concerts Friday and Saturday nights at 8 p.m. Stan Rubin
and The Tiger-Town Five will perform Friday, and folk-singer Odetta is featured Saturday.

IFC Signs Group, Approves Budget

Contracting the Lettermen for this year’s IFC concert and ratifying the IFC budget was completed this week. Many fraternities have
been left out because of the strange case and this week. President Martin pointed out that the important thing for
a senior choosing a college is only whether or not the college offers advanced standing. Because the tests are not
taken until the spring of the senior year, an entering freshman would not know whether he would actually be offered
advanced standing until just before he arrived at college.

“The new regulations will let many better students avoid repeating work they are already competent in and are being bored
by. With the load relieved in freshman and sophomore courses, the professors will have time for their other courses and
the students in them,” Martin concluded.

The IFC has now completed its plans to operate on a budget each year, and the fraternities have voted their
approval. Rogers sought to clarify the reason that the budget was not passed earlier. “It was incorrect to name any
fraternities specifically as stabling the hope,” he corrected. He admitted that the Phi Gams and the Phi Delts did vote
down the budget earlier, but stated that there was general disagreement concerning the fees and their payment.

The new budget, to go into effect next year, calls for an IFC assessment of $23 per fraternity member to
be paid to the IFC through the individual fraternities in two payments spaced through the year. Fraternities making late payments
will be fined 5 percent of the amount due. The IFC will start out each year with a $750 working
fund in its treasury carried over from the year previously. By doing this the IFC hopes to avoid its annual
first semester problem of financial fines which has often handicapped its efforts to contract Homecoming entertainment. Independents can purchase guest
social privileges for the year.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

eer far $20 or of the sale of $40 per Center weekend st! ($8 per concert). Top honors of skit
night went to the Sigma Chis. Their scene depicted St. Peter and Gabriel delivering new arrivals with various personalities at
the “Pearly Gates.” It also tells a funny story involving a skit featuring a freshman-sophomore gala. New came the AO
with an imitation of a Davidson-Queen party. In fourth place were the Sigma Nus with a tall TV panel show.
The service projects pictured by the girls revealed that all of the groups had donated to fun. Some of the
work done by the groups included:

- Liblowns AM—general repairs at the Mount church and at Methodist Home in Charlotte;
- Beta—painted Ruralville Community Center and relocated Huntersville Recreational Path;
- KA—elaborated college prep on Lake Norman;
- Kappa Sigs—repairs on YMCA Fresh Air Camp;
- Pi Kappa—improved alley for local colored children;
- Phi Kapp—cleaned Mooresville Public Library.

Others included:

- Sigma Chi landscaped railroad bank in Mooresville;
- Sigma Nu—improved athletic field in Huntersville;
- BSB—general repairs at Mecklenburg Tuberculosis Sanatorium;
- Sig Ep—cleaned Alexander Home for Children in Charlotte;
- Phi Delt—released baseball park in Huntersville;
- Phi Gam—cleaned recreational center in Mooresville.

The campus was awakened every morning by loud counts as many pledge classes marched to breakfast. Inside the fraternity houses,
the pledges were kept busy by their brothers who could always find something for them to do. Most fraternity spots
were brought up to date during the week. Many upperclassmen's shoes and cars were exceptionally clean and shiny. Other requests
were promptly attended to by the pledges. Conspicuous deeds were often a limited number of coveted positions for waiters have
become available on THE DAVIDSONIAN staff. Interested students are invited to attend a meeting in the Green Room of the
Union on Sunday night at 6:30 p.m. No prior experience is necessary.

The order of the week, for instance, the Beta's wore bright Confederate Ninth on the buckles of their shirts, Sigma
Chi pledges could be spotted with their thick decks. All of the Sig Ep yard sported strange-looking caps. Bright pink
headbands covered the heads of many pledges. Scavenger hunts continued the week for some at its previous: other different activities
were scheduled by the pledges to consider the issue of what is held dear. The plans to work out a
way whereby faculty opinion can be expressed without the use of a "no" vote in the oath. The weekend Youth
Committee presented to the trustees along with other information regarding the oath's history at Davidson and an oath as they
are used or not used at other schools. Cumming stated that the faculty "is not to question the aims or
purposes of the Executive Committee but to examine the best way to achieve them." President O. G. Martin stressed the
fact that all the faculty can do is express their opinion in some way on the oath. They have no
actual powers themselves to change or abolish it. Should a strong majority be obtained opposing the oath in the faculty
meeting, it is very likely that the trustees would consider carefully the question of either changing or abolishing it. "But
unless the faculty does not take it and any longer if no sign that the trustees will do away with
it," Martin said. "Many times in the past the trustees have refused to follow what is clearly opposition to certain
issues." An anonymous professor, who now opposes it, said, "Many do not realize that a great many of the trustees
are men who were educated here and who can't see why anyone would object to taking vows." He implied that
it would be necessary to handle these men with great tact and diplomacy. The last controversial issue voted on for
presentation to the trustees by the faculty was that of integration. In their meeting last spring, the trustees finally followed
the results of an earlier faculty poll and made a historic change in Davidson's racial policy. Martin said that he
did not wish to predict a victory for the movement's abolition, but he did say significantly, "I think it is
probable that the great majority of the faculty do not want to have to take it." Dr. Daniel Te Dados,
a strong proponent of the oath, said clearly, "We must have respect for the issue at this time if we
do not think we find any strong magic period." In an effort to ascertain faculty feeling on the matter before
the meeting, THE DAVIDSONIAN contacted various professors about their views. Dr. Fletcher said, "I have some very definite and strong
opinions about it, but I don't want to say anything in the newspapers." He did admit that he felt that
the oath hurt the school very badly but declined to say in what ways. These professors who wished (Continued On
Page Four)

Faculty’s Loyalty Oath Often Cause Of Friction

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Senior Reporter

The question of the faculty oath has long been a controversial issue on the editorial page of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Exactly
what is this controversial oath? It is not true, as the widespread belief on campus has it, that every member
of the faculty has to take the oath. Only full professors, when they are inaugurated during commencement, are required to
take it. It is also necessary for the president of the college to take it. The “commitment to evangelical Christianity”
requires each candidate for inauguration to give three “yeas” to the following questions which constitute the oath:

(a) Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior and do you believe in the fundamental teachings of evangelical
Christianity?
(b) Do you believe the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament to be the word of God, the only
infallible rule of faith and practice?
(c) Do you promise to humble reliance upon the grace of God which comes through the Holy Spirit, so to
live and teach as to give expression to the Christian faith?

The oath has been changed since it last appeared in THE DAVIDSONIAN in 1941. The former oath had five questions.
The last question of the former oath was:

(d) Do you promise that if at any time you find yourself out of harmony with these solemn engagements which
you have just made, you will notify the Trustees of the college?

The section of “(e)” to which the professor promised to be “faithful in the discharge of your duties as a
Professor in the College” was completely dropped. The only other major change was the combination of two questions to form
“(a)” question of the present oath. Twice in the past decade of the 1950s the oath was hotly debated in
this paper. In 1952 Dean C. S. Brown supported it for two main reasons—tradition and right. He emphasized that the
oath came from the earliest days of the college. He also stated that the school has a “right” to require
an oath in order to keep Davidson closely related to the Church. Basically, those favoring a continuation of the oath
today take the same stand. THE DAVIDSONIAN's argument against the stand taken by Dean Brown was that: “Many professors can
take the oath only by interpreting it in such a way as to fit their particular beliefs. Right and freedom
are different. Davidson has the freedom to require any oath it sees fit, but it does not necessarily have the
right.”

In 1958, the paper polled 82 faculty members about the rule that all the faculty be members of some evangelical
church. 75 percent favored the rule at that time. Only 40 would answer directly the question of whether or not
they favored the oath at commencement. By a vote of 22-18, they expressed approval of the oath. This indicates that
the group seeking its abolition in the faculty meeting next Tuesday may have rough sledding. At this time many criticisms
were leveled at the oath, the chief one being that it is a standing barrier to qualified men who might
come to Davidson were it not for the oath. There was also agitation on the part of some faculty members
over the place the oath must be taken. Commented one, “These questions could be put to a man at the
time of initial employment. They certainly do not belong at commencement exercises in the College!” This question and a change
in tuition.

---

