Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Academic Probation

One more swipe at the Academic Probation rule before the executive committee’s recommendations go before the entire faculty. More for formality than anything, we ask one more time that Academic Probation either be made a true probationary period with lower requirements than the present 12 hours and 9 quality points, or that the entire rule be junked.

The latter option is actually our preference, because already existing promotional requirements cover adequately the problem of accumulating hours and quality points. These requirements make the Academic Probation rule little more than a harassing gesture at the already greatly persecuted “underachiever.” The new rule put into effect this year frankly strikes us as being void of background thought. Dr. J. G. Martin has built a convincing case against Academic Probation in general, and particularly against the new version of the rule. His findings have been partially reproduced elsewhere in the newspaper.

As we said last week, the freshman six-week grade report should definitely be made unofficial. Six-week grades reflect nothing more than how quickly the freshman has adjusted to college, and slow adjustment is hardly sufficient reason to deny a freshman cuts and off-campus extracurricular participation for the rest of the semester.

Which brings up an important second point. If a student can go on Academic Probation at any grading period, he should certainly be allowed to go off on any report upon regaining the required number of hours and quality points.

The several other valid objections to the Academic Probation rule, particularly as it now stands, have been discussed for the past three weeks in this column, in Rick Lowery’s column, and now in Tom Loflin’s story covering J. G. Martin’s proposals. We trust these objections will be given fair hearing by the faculty next week, and we hope that group will see fit not only to pass whatever the executive committee has already proposed, but to take any other possible action to loosen or abolish the unnecessary Academic Probation rule.

DTS

By Wright

On Traditional Beanielessness

“Beanies, name tags, and no walking on the grass will become a thing of memory as freshmen regulations end at midnight tonight.” Thus reads the lead paragraph of the story on page four of this week’s DAVIDSONIAN. And, indeed, beanies, name tags, and no walking on the grass have become a memory. But, then, have they not been a memory for some weeks now?

Who was ever interested in the enforcement of the freshman regulations? A handful of upper-classmen, perhaps. Not the Freshman Court. And certainly not the sophisticated Class of 1967. Indeed, the so-called “tyrant” Jim Bootle, ’61, was the last man to lead a general enforcement of the regulations on this campus. And his Court of Control was accused of damaging the psychological fiber of those unfortunate freshmen who were publicly reprimanded and disciplined for violation of the regulations.

Sophomore class president Dave Hardeman states that the purpose of the freshmen regulations is three-fold: to develop class unity and spirit, to make the freshmen realize that they have as yet made no significant contribution to Davidson and to continue the tradition.

These objectives have certainly been realized: First, the Class of 1967 has violated the regulation in a unified and spirited manner. There was nothing officious about their disregard for the rules; in fact, it was rather heart-warming to see so many beanieless freshmen walking on the grass. If any had been wearing name tags, we would have certainly congratulated them individually on their dedicated united front of violation.

Secondly, the freshmen have indeed been made aware of the fact that they have as yet made no significant contribution to Davidson. In fact, they couldn’t even contribute so much as a quasi-allegiance to Davidson’s lone tradition.

And, thirdly, the tradition has been continued; that is, the tradition of paying something less than lip-service to this first lesson in the making of a “whole” man.

It is evident that the increased intellectual sophistication of the Davidson student body has ushered in a don’t-give-a-damn attitude as regards the freshman regulations. This outlook is especially obvious on the Freshman Court. It must be realized that traditions, as such, have no intrinsic value; only the fact that many people do give a damn about their continuance can be considered as proper justification for their existence. Such does not seem to be the case at Davidson.

Hence, we would call for the complete and permanent abolition of the freshmen regulations and the Freshman Court. The former will never be obeyed or enforced, it appears, and the ordering of a meager twenty freshmen to shovel dung out of the wildcat cage can hardly be called reasonable justification for the existence of the latter.

Asterisk

ARTIST-ACTIVIST GUY OWEN: ONCE TAUGHT AT DAVIDSON, NOW N.C. STATE’S CULTURE OASIS

BY RICK VON UNWERTH

A double handful of Davidson students and professors got a treat Monday night. Sigma Upsilon was addressed by Guy Owen, novelist, anthologist, editor, and a poet in spite of his PhD. He talked about verse and image and read some of his stuff. Before a backdrop of authority comprised of a published novel, a sheaf of successful poems, and several years of teaching experience his frank apologies were peculiarly refreshing. It was an evening of understatement.

“I don’t have much to offer ... a few cliches if you'll let me get by with that. How long does this Chautauqua hold forth? I'll just read a couple of little things here... .” Yes, peculiarly refreshing, this modest, energetic artist-activist who slipped in quietly on the heels of last week’s culture huckster. Short, plump, crew-cut and glasses—on the whole a pretty unawesome figure. He looked like an assistant grocer, maybe, or a small-town Methodist deacon.

It was probably with the same modesty he exuded Monday night that he submitted “Season of Fear” to Random House. It was accepted immediately and subsequently published—a rare fate for a first novel.

Among other things, Mr. Owen publishes a poetry quarterly called Impetus. “We do it for fun ... try not to lose too much money.” The magazine is for new Southern poets, among them one-time Davidson salutatorian Dabney Stuart and one-time Davidson professor Guy Owen. Mr. Owen, it seems, was ours for two years a while back. He is actively writing now and is teaching at N. C. State in Raleigh. He is also the mentor of the North Carolina Poetry Circuit, which came under his leadership after the University of North Carolina began to fade in the area of creativity due to lack of interest.

Mr. Owen, however, is interested in active expression, and he is also interested in Davidson. The two seem strangely incompatible right now. Monday night he loosened his tie, conjectured about poetry, discussed modern trends, and held at least part of the audience in his subtle thrall. Refusing to take himself seriously, he continued to apologize with his voice and a nervous jerk of his arm as he breezed through the fruits of his inspiration. He read “grim” poems about death and destruction, light poems about people and ideas, and poems in which he “took a risk.” “I’m not even sure these are poems,” he said. “They’re pushing prose. I thought I'd try it, though ... well, see what you think.”

He explained his stylistic digressions in the same apologetic tone that characterized all of his delivery, with a suggestion that—what the hell—maybe there’s something here and why not listen, once anyway. At some of his best serious images, he would raise his eyebrows with a little “well, you caught me there” chuckle. He was honestly, modestly alive.

His consuming interest is southern literature and poetry, and he knows his field because he lives in it. He talked about the impact of industry on the south, the impact of the Nashville Fugitives on poetry, the impact of Frost and Pound and Tate and nature and the South on him. He wants to help us bring poets like Donald Justice, Jonathan Williams (lots of slides and obscene poems), and Charles Edward Eaton to Davidson. I submit that Guy Owen can, with his wide-eyed subtlety, make a tremendous impact on us.

Letters To The Editor

EDITORIALS CONTINUED

On NSA: Pro...

Well, it was good for laughs. The silver-tongued student body president argued passionately. His grim-faced opponent countered gamely. Two dissenters left quietly. And most observers admitted dolefully that the great debate ended in a tie.

The issue was NSA; specifically, whether it is to Davidson’s advantage to belong to such a controversial organization. Both John Spratt and Pat Freeny brought out points which we feel deserve comment.

Freeny’s main argument (initially) against membership in NSA was that the organization purports to be non-political, and yet spends the majority of its time and effort discussing and lobbying for or against issues of a strictly political nature, issues which have little or no significance to Davidson students. Further, he questioned whether this college should belong to an organization which at times advocates positions on political issues which are not supported by most Davidson students.

The first point is worthy of little consideration. The NSA is many things, and it makes no difference if not all its activity is devoted to removing Davidson from the depths of provincialism. The annual fee for affiliation is 30 dollars. Divided by a thousand, this amounts to the price of a couple of cigarettes per student per year. Certainly the benefits, even if they are indirect, general benefits, are worth the small cost.

The second point merits no consideration. The NSA constitution was changed last year to the effect that any resolutions passed by the National Student Conference of NSA do not necessarily have the endorsement or support of member schools. So in spite of our affiliation with it, NSA does not necessarily speak for Davidson.

... and Con

The Davidson College Student Council needs to be affiliated with a national association of student governments. Such an association could provide a good training program for newly-elected officers,and an annual conference would afford an excellent opportunity to trade ideas with students from other schools, and to pick up wonderful bits of information like how to run off voting cards. In approximately two weeks we intend to wish the Student Council luck in finding such an association with which to affiliate. As Pat Freeny noted at length in chapel Monday, the National Student Association spends far too much time engaged in internal power squabbles and fumbling around with politics to teach anybody anything about student government. And, as council members themselves have pointed out, so far the only outstanding ideological exchange at a convention resulted in those nice little punch cards. We have seen no benefits of the NSA on campus. The NSA ruling elite, whoever they may be, take stands on political issues which most students here are not the least bit sympathetic toward. The Student Council delegates themselves get little training at the NSA convention. We do not need this organization. Go to the polls on Referendum Day.

During the course of the debate, however, Freeny changed the line of his argument and made one point which deserves Student Council consideration, namely that NSA has not received enough in-depth publicity on campus. In spite of Spratt’s protests, we feel that the activities, organization, and benefits of NSA have not been publicized to a great enough extent. To be sure, one or two assemblies a year are devoted to NSA. And occasionally a sign is posted in the Union or an article appears in THE DAVIDSONIAN concerning some NSA activity. But the majority of students are still not aware of what the organization is all about. Perhaps the ideal solution would be a short series of programs in the form of discussions or debates involving both students and professors devoted to exploring the philosophy and activities of NSA. Students are apparently more receptive this year to this sort of approach than they have been in past years. At any rate, information about NSA should be readily available to any student desiring to find out more about it. Indeed, if the present movement to petition for a referendum vote on NSA membership jells, the student council will be obligated to present relevant material for student consideration.

We fully agree with John Spratt that membership in NSA is worthwhile and valuable, and that over the years it can make a significant contribution to Davidson. But we also point out that now, as in the past, accessibility to relevant literature about NSA is limited. We encourage the student council to make such information available and we encourage the student body to read and discuss it. Who knows? We might even have another debate.

DTS Driesell

Dear Editor:

The reasons for closed basketball practices are simple and very justified, I believe. We have practice sessions of two hours per day and these two hours are a “learning” period. They are planned to the second and are carried on in a business-like manner (I hope). We have many things to “master” from fundamentals to zone presses, out-of-bounds plays, zone and man-for-man defense, combination defense, and offenses to list a few. The coaching staff must try to teach these in the best possible atmosphere. If the gym is left open to anyone passing by, a small crowd usually appears and there is talking and visiting among the spectators that is distracting to the coaches and boys. I must have the undivided attention of every boy for two hours a day in order to prepare our team to meet the tough schedule it faces. It is hard to do this with disturbances and talking in the gymnasium. The situation is similar to teaching a class in chemistry. I am sure Dr. J. G. Martin would have trouble getting his students to concentrate on chemistry if he had from 25 to 50 visitors in the back of his classroom talking and distracting his students and himself. I find it impossible to do a good teaching job under these circumstances. I would like to point out that I did the same thing with my first basketball team — a junior varsity high school team nine years ago, and have had closed practices every year since. There are other reasons which make it necessary to have closed practice sessions at times, which I will not go into at this time. I would like to point out that we have had only two closed practice sessions this year and had open practice freshman parents day and last Friday when we had a full game scrimmage. I am delighted to have spectators whenever we scrimmage and this will be quite often from now on. However, I don’t think it wise to have any distractions when we are trying to build a winning defense and offense. I will be happy to have any student interested in learning more about basketball sit in on our sessions if he will check with me first. I want to thank the Davidson student body (which I consider to be the best in the country) for their great interest in basketball, and I hope this tradition of interest will grow more and more. The basketball coaching staff is working many hours per day to produce a winning basketball program. We try very hard to cooperate with the student body in every way possible as our basketball program is only as strong as our supporters make it. I can assure you we will have open practice and scrimmages whenever possible, but we have a tremendous job ahead of us and as the old saying goes, “There is no easy way to get a hard job done.” Thank you for your support, interest, and patience.

Coach Charles G. Driesell

Snow

Dear Editor:

Letters to the editor are primarily for intelligent criticism or enthusiastic commendation or support. Very frequently they reveal problems which are consequently corrected. But why waste 10 column inches to say you're mad at Coach Driesell for not letting you watch basketball practice? Surely Coach Driesell has reasons of his own for the closed practice. Ask any basketball player if he objects to the closed sessions. Lefty wouldn’t do us wrong. If the letter in last week's DAVIDSONIAN was needed to fill space, then it accomplished its purpose. But rather than fill space with childish criticism, why not fill it with something more exemplary of journalistic and literary talent.

Ron Snow

Vagabond’s ‘Earnest’ Heralds Bright Future For Dramatics

BY PETE MYERS

“The Importance of Being Earnest,” presented by the Davidson Drama Department, heralds a promising year for the theater at Davidson. The play is a delightful farce set in the England of the turn of the century. It concerns two friends, John Worthing and Algernon Montcrieff, and their romance with two very proper young ladies, Gwendolyn Fairfax and Cecily Cardew, respectively. But the romance is complicated by Gwendolyn’s Aunt Augusta Bracknell and her views of the proper marriage.

All of the characters were very good, and presented a polished production to the small audience. Lane, played by Jon Miller, and Merriman, played by Ed Dwelle, were two quite convincing butlers, scorning the aristocracy in their own small way. Miss Prism, Cecily’s governess, was played in a very interesting, if not unusual, manner by Mrs. Connie Welsh. And her “beau,” the Rev. Dr. Chasuble, played by sophomore Decker Faw, was presented as a delightfully contrasting character role.

The leads, John (Robert Powell) and Algy (Smith McKeithen) were somewhat convincing, although not as much as their female supporters. Smith, as Algy, seemed a little unsure of himself throughout most of the play, and the feeling was there even after he warmed up in the middle of the play. John, by Robert, was very good considering that this play was his debut on the stage. With a little more experience, he would probably present a wonderfully delightful John. In fact occasionally he came quite close to that point. Gwendolyn and Cecily were delightfully charming. Cecily was completely the young sweet, romantic girl. And Gwendolyn was a beautiful presentation of the more sophisticated British young woman in town society, a little harsh perhaps, but convincing.

And in the middle of the first act entered the high point of the evening, Lady Augusta Bracknell, played by Mrs. Ellen Winkler. In the midst of an above average performance, especially at Davidson, Mrs. Winkler presented a completely polished performance. In past performances, Mrs. Winkler has shown that she has much ability, but in “Earnest” she has outshone herself in a quality performance!

On the whole the play was an exciting production. The costumes by Miss Cumming and Mmes. J. Martin, Minter, Tucker, McCall, and designed by Mrs. Barber were the best costumes since “Androcles and the Lion.” The sets were very colorful and quite elaborate for the unwieldy Davidson stage. Mr. Barber did an excellent job in their design, and his student help were good carpenters, even though they were a bit late in finishing the sets, namely during the first performance. “The Importance of Being Earnest" is definitely a play that should be seen by all. It is a great humorous approach to the most staid period of our culture, and Mr. Barber has done a good job of presentation.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Stitt

BUSINESS MANAGER
Rick Finch

Associate Editors
Tim Kimrey
News Editor
Jim Downey
Bill Ruth
Photography Editor
Joe Patterson
Photographers
Sam Smith
Jeff Wampler
Romir Chatterjee
Managing Editors
Charles Dibble
Cartoonists
Dan Adams
Charles Ramberg
Johnny Wright
Rufus Hallmark
Assistant Editor
Rick von Unwerth
Assignments Editor
Feature Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Bob Strauser
Sports Editor
Rick Lowery
John Todd
Tom Loflin
Paul van den Berg
Assistant Bus. Manager
Charlie Smith
Advertising Manager
Irvine Welling
Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Contributors This Week:
Rufus Adair, Bill Norfleet, John Bailey, Bill Hufford, George Fain, Charles Edwards, Dick Hicks, Eric Nichols, Jim Beasley, Don McKinnon, Paul Simpson, and Pete Myers.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.