THE BLINDS ARE DOWN as Joe McCutchen vainly tries the door. Rev. William C. (Pop) Copeland's store, known as “The
Jungle,” has been closed this past week following his death last Saturday. The fate of the Jungle is not now
known. (Staff Photo by Buck Lawrimore.)

‘Jungle’s’ Owner Dies; New Emporium Needed
BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Legends are born when men die. It is only in the rarest of cases that legends about a man live
and flourish within the realm of his life. The town and college of Davidson participated in one of history’s rare
results of the combination of a man and a legend for the past seventeen years. The man left last Saturday
morning; the legend will live on.

Rev. William C. (Pop) Copeland spent his last seconds in the shop on Main Street that must forever remain a
part of the legend that began to grow up about him long ago. It was perhaps fitting that a heart
attack should peacefully snuff out the seventy-two-year-old spirit of life that dwelt in him in the surroundings he loved the
best.

Today his midget-sized emporium continues to bulge with its amazing cache of commodities for every use imaginable to a student
or townsman. Only one change has been made—the door is closed and Pop Copeland is no longer holding his continual
conversations in front of the store with Davidsonians and other passers-by. With the warm spring weather now in sight, the
town will just not be the same without him in front of his store.

It was not long after Pop Copeland returned to Davidson to spin his life away weaving happiness for other folks
that his legend began to grow on campus. The most prominent aspect of the legend was his shop, in which
so many varieties of products in the dry goods line were stored that students soon gave it the name of
‘The Jungle.’ And a lush jungle it was for a freshman who may have arrived for the administration's Hades of
orientation without a few things that the college bulletin for newcomers had “forgotten” to mention. But Pop Copeland had not
forgotten to stock them.

To supplement the inadequately harsh light the school had provided for his desk, the eyeball-conscious frosh could always find lamps
of softer electrical tones. Just in case the bulletin had not mentioned that MS I's were expected to shine their
shoes and brass for every ROTC drill, Pop had quite a stockpile of Blitz cloths, shoe polish, and Brasso.

He had just about everything else, too, from boots for the bootless caught in one of Davidson's freak snowstorms to
buttons for Davidson men who could do their own mothering and knew how to sew. As he said one time,
“I know what the boys need and cater to their needs.”

Pop Copeland did not open his store here in 1946 merely to help freshmen the administration had confused. He also
came to help the troubled in spirit, the confused in mind. Anytime a student needed a sympathetic ear, the former
minister was happily willing to lend his. Or if it was just cheerful conversation a person wanted that would be
a bit more interesting than college lectures, The Jungle was the place to go. Pop Copeland was always a beaming
conversationalist with an interesting knowledge of Davidson in the old days.

Pop got his start into the big life right here when he graduated with the Class of ‘16. He naturally
could recite tales by the jungle full to any interested listener. He used to love to tell how it was
the decision of all the classes back in 1915 that led to the founding of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and not just
that of the Class of ‘15 which usually takes credit for the achievement.

One little-known fact about him that often escapes his legend is that he was the person who suggested the inscription
on his class’ gift, the college well. But his three Latin words, “Labora ut Vincas” (Labor to Conquer), can still
be seen today at the base of the fountain in the well.

Another part of Pop Copeland’s legend, his plump, jolly wife who has the reputation of being the best cook in
this end of the county, continues to live on in the flesh. And she will continue to run her boarding
house in front of the campus next to the old hotel. She has now attracted quite a following of independents
who eat their every meal of the week, except for Saturday supper, with her.

What will happen to The Jungle is still not known by the family at the present time. They feel that
the town still has a definite need for the store since it carried many low-priced items that attracted the factory
workers and Negroes of Davidson as well as its college students. Right now the decision is to try to find
someone who wants to run it. But there are doubts in the family's minds that anyone who can run The
Jungle as cheaply as Pop Copeland did can be found.

But whether The Jungle remains closed or not, Pop Copeland’s myth will live on in the minds of men in
the town and college. For men are meant to die; legends live on.

After Vespers Open House
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Cumming
Johnston
Ratliff
Gourley
Lammers
Rhodes
Hight
McGeachy
Schenck
Houchens
Minter
Threlkeld
Hunt
Pierce
Wilcox
Jackson
Polley
Wruck

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

DANIA RESTAURANT
HIGHWAY 29
CONCORD, N. C.
WEDNESDAY NIGHTS: Golden Fried Chicken (½) $1.50
FRIDAY NIGHTS: “All the Fish You Can Eat” $1.50
SAT. NIGHTS: Buffet Supper American-Continental Foods 6:00-9:00 P.M. $2.50
Open 6 A.M.- 9 P.M. Closed Mondays

ELECTIONS
Monday, March 11: Speeches in assembly by the three presidential candidates.
Tuesday, March 12: Question and answer forum in Morrison Room, 7:00 p.m.
Wednesday, March 13: Presidential run-off and other run-offs if necessary.
Thursday, March 14: Nominations for the Honor Court.
Friday, March 15: Presidential run-off, if necessary.
Monday, March 18: Voting for members of the Honor Court, if there is no presidential run-off.
Tuesday, March 19: Honor Court voting.
Wednesday, March 20: Honor Court voting.

Student Council Acts On Election Methods
The Student Council, acting Feb. 18, revised extensively the By-laws under which the current elections are being held:

BY-LAW NO. 2
The Elections Board shall be composed of one senior from each social fraternity and four non-fraternity men chosen from the
Senior Class. The Student Council shall select the members of the Board and shall appoint one senior Council member as
its chairman. The Elections Board shall conduct all student body elections under the following rules and procedures:

a. The student body shall elect the Student Body Officers; the Officers of the YMCA; the editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN,
Scripts and Pranks, and The Wildcat Handbook; the President of the College Union and the Cheerleaders. The individual classes shall
elect their class officers, members of the Honor Court, and representatives to the Student Council. The rising Senior Class shall
elect the Freshman Adviser and the Editor of Quips and Cranks.

b. Nominations for Officers of the YMCA shall be made by the YMCA Cabinet. Nominations for the Editors of the
Publications shall be made by the Publications Board. Nominations for the Presidency of the College Union shall be made by
the Union Board. Cheerleaders shall be nominated by the retiring cheerleaders from a group composed of those students who have
indicated interest in becoming cheerleaders to the head cheerleader. The retiring cheerleaders shall nominate not less than twice the number
of vacancies to be filled.

c. Nominations for Student Body Officers shall be made by members of the entire student body. Nominations for class officers
and for all other officers elected by a single class shall be made by members of that class alone.

d. Nominations shall be conducted from the floor in chapel in writing. A list of candidates shall be posted in
the Union before 1 p.m. on the same day. A candidate must signify his willingness to run for office prior
to 11 p.m. by writing a statement to the Chairman of the Elections Board. This statement shall read: I... signify
my willingness to run for the office of ... and will abide by the rules as stated in Student Council
By-law No. 2.

e. Polls shall be open on the days designated for elections from the beginning of the second class period until
1 p.m. They shall reopen at 1:30 and close again at 2.

f. Voting shall be by secret ballot. There shall be no write-in votes. All ballots shall be filed for a
period of two weeks after an election is completed. No person except the members of the Elections Board and the
Student Council shall have access to the ballots.

g. In cases where more than one person is to be elected, a voter may cast votes up to and
including the number of candidates to be elected.

h. Eliminations in elections shall be determined by retaining as candidates for the next runoff those top candidates polling collectively
a majority of the votes cast. A candidate shall be declared the winner when he polls individually a majority of
the votes cast. In cases where more than one person is to be elected, candidates shall be declared the winners
when the number of candidates to be elected poll collectively a majority of the votes cast.

i. Under no circumstances shall any ballots be counted until after the closing of the polls each day. The results,
including the complete vote count for each candidate, shall be posted the same day in the College Union and in
Chambers Building.

j. In the election for the President of the Student Body, speeches shall be made in Assembly when there are
no more than four nor less than three candidates remaining in the race. Speeches shall be no longer than six
minutes each. The evening of the same day, an open forum shall be held for students to question the candidates.

k. Open discussion of candidates and issues is encouraged. However, organized solicitation and combines or efforts to encourage bloc voting
or vote swapping along organizational lines shall be illegal. Any financial support for any candidate in any form whatsoever shall
be illegal. The penalty for violation of any of these rules shall be the loss of voting privileges for all
individuals involved and a fine of from $50 to $100 levied against all organizations involved.

l. The Elections Board shall receive any complaints or charges of violations of elections rules or procedures, shall make proper
investigation, and shall impose punishment uponde- termining infractions thereof. All operations by and decisions of the Board shall be subject
to review by the Student Council.

m. The Elections Board shall publicize in writing all above rules and procedures for elections well in advance of an
election.

n. Procedures for the election of Editor of the Wildcat Handbook and all special elections shall be left to the
discretion of the Student Council.

STUDENT COUNCIL BY-LAW NO. 3 (Revised, February 18, 1963)

Student Body elections shall be conducted in the following order in the spring:
1) Student Body Officers;
2) Honor Court;
3) YMCA;
4) Freshman Adviser, Publication Editors, President of the College Union, and Cheerleaders; and
5) Student Council.

The Wildcat Handbook election shall be held prior to the Publications Convention in the fall.

Church Moderator Speaks Thursday

Edward Grant, moderator of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., will speak in chapel Thursday, March 14. Grant has been secretary of
education and promotion for the Foreign Missions Board of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. and executive secretary of the Board of
Education for that same body. He is now president of the Grant Chemical Company. Born in Glasgow, Scotland, he received
his AB from Austin College, Texas, and his MA from George Peabody College for Teachers in Nashville, Tenn. He also
holds two honorary degrees.

Vags Give Hootenanny; Storyteller To Perform
BY TOM PEADEN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Hodson Hall will be the scene of a “Hootenanny,” featuring Richard Chase on March 21. Chase is an American folklorist
and storyteller. His main interest has been in collecting, learning, and retelling the folk tales that are a part of
the oral tradition of the people who live in the southern Appalachians. Some of these folk tales have their origin
in pre-Elizabethan England. Chase has also published several collections of these tales in such books as Grandfather Tales, Jack Tales,
and American Folk Tales and Songs.

In addition to Chase's telling of the folk stories, several of the janitors will present acts. Heywood Good has a
ventriloquism act; Cleve Carr and Fred Dees will sing Negro blues of the Twenties; and Henry Withers will “butt-dance.” Also
on the program will be singing by Davidson students and possibly two students from Duke. Because of the extremely informal
nature of the ‘Hootenanny,” anyone can participate, and those interested should contact Alex Bernhardt.

Following the program, refreshments will be served, and Chase will talk informally with students, especially those interested in producing folk
drama of the pre-Elizabethan period or in writing dramas based on themes contained in the folklore of this period.

About future events of this nature, Robert Sailstad, chairman of the Vagabonds Planning and Governing Board, said, “In terms of
the response to the ‘Hootenanny,’ there might be a folk festival later in the semester, with guests from the folk
music field. This is a big project and would take about six weeks to set up. Now it is only
in the discussion stage.”

In other drama activity on campus, the second set of student plays will be presented March 27-28 with Professor J.
A. Gross as adviser. The third set of these plays will be given April 16-17 under the advisement of Dr.
W. H. Tilley. Also, Bill Trotter’s November Requiem will be presented at the North Carolina Drama Festival at Chapel Hill
in April.

Salem Music Prof Has Seminar Here

Dr. Donald M. McCorkle of Winston-Salem is teaching a course in music at Davidson College this semester. Director and Editor-in-Chief
for the Moravian Music Foundation, Inc., McCorkle is also part-time assistant professor of Musicology at Salem College. The three-hour semester
course, which McCorkle teaches on Friday afternoon from 1:30 until 4:30, is a seminar in the music of the Baroque
period (1600-1750).

McCorkle’s principal activities since 1964 have been in opening the musical resources and archives of the Moravian Church in America.
McCorkle received the BM in music history and literature cum laude from Bradley University, Peoria, Ill. In 1964 he received
the MA degree and in 1958 the PhD degree in musicology from Indiana University.

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf,” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

HAPPY TALK

As we all know, conversation is terribly important on a date. When lulls in the conversation run longer than an
hour or two, one’s partner is inclined to grow logy—even sullen. But occasionally one finds it difficult to keep the
talk going, especially when one is having a first date with one. What, then, does one do?

If one is wise, one follows the brilliant example of Harlow Thurlow.

Harlow Thurlow prepares. That is his simple secret. When Harlow is going to take out a new girl, he makes
sure in advance that the conversation will not languish. Before the date, he goes to the lib and reads all
24 volumes of the encyclopedia and transcribes their contents on his cuffs. Thus he makes sure that no matter what
his date’s interests are, he will have ample material to keep the conversation alive.

Take, for example, Harlow’s first date with Priscilla de Gasser, a fine, strapping, blue-eyed broth of a girl, lavishly constructed
and rosy as the dawn. Harlow was, as always, prepared when he called for Priscilla, and, as always, he did
not start to converse immediately. First he took her to dinner because, as everyone knows, it is useless to try
to make conversation with an unfed coed. Her attention span is negligible. Also, her stomach rumbles so loud it is
difficult to make yourself heard.

So he took her to a fine steak house where he stoked her with gobbets of Black Angus and mounds
of French fries and thickets of escarole and battalions of petit fours. Then, at last, dinner was over and the
waiter brought two finger bowls.

“I hope you enjoyed your dinner, my dear,” said Harlow, dipping into his finger bowl.

“Oh, it was dy-dandy!” said Priscilla. “Now let’s go someplace for ribs.”

“Later, perhaps,” said Harlow. “But right now, I thought we might have a conversation.”

“Oh, goody, goody, two-shoes!” cried Priscilla. “I been looking everywhere for a boy who can carry on an intelligent conversation.”

“Your search is ended, madam,” said Harlow, and pulled back his sleeves and looked at his cuffs to pick a
likely topic to start the conversation. Oh, woe! Oh, lackaday! Those cuffs on which Harlow had painstakingly transcribed so many
facts—those cuffs on which he had noted such diverse and fascinating information—those cuffs, I say, were nothing now but a
big, blue blur! Poor Harlow—splashing around in the finger bowl, he had gotten his cuffs wet and the ink had
run and not one word was legible! And Harlow—poor Harlow!—looked upon his cuffs and broke out in a night sweat
and fell dumb.

“I must say,” said Priscilla after several silent hours, “that you are a very dull fellow. I’m leaving.” With that
she flounced away and poor Harlow was too crushed to protest. Sadly he sat and sadly lit a cigarette.

All of a sudden Priscilla came rushing back. “Was that,” she asked, “a Marlboro you just lit?”

“Yes,” said Harlow.

“Then you are not a dull fellow,” she cried, and ran into his lap. “You are bright! Anybody is bright
to smoke such a perfect joy of a cigarette as Marlboro, which is just chock full of yummy flavor, which
has a Selectrate filter, which comes in a soft pack that is really soft, and a Flip-Top Box that really
flips, and which can be bought wherever cigarettes are sold in all fifty states and Duluth. Harlow, tiger, wash your
cuffs and live.”

“Okay,” said Harlow, and did, and was.
