Che Bauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

To The Trustees

Two articles on the front page of this newspaper deal with the latest developments in the matter of Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz’s resignation. These articles point to serious discrepancies of opinion among members of the trustee committee on education themselves as to just what they did or did not discuss at the committee’s meeting last April 22. We do not understand why these discrepancies exist, and we hope an explanation will be forthcoming from the trustee meeting next week.

We would like to say something about a man who has always been fair and considerate in dealing with this newspaper and the student body. Although this newspaper's editorial staff may disagree with Dr. J. McDowell Richards on several issues, at the same time we have a great deal of admiration for him. Dr. Richards is a straightforward, almost bluntly honest man who does not hesitate to take a forthright stand on an issue, and he is the type of man who will explain his stand in public, before students. For instance, three years ago Dr. Richards took on about half the student body in a spirited discussion of college policy in a Union forum. He has expressed a willingness to ask the Board of Trustees to hear Dr. Goodykoontz next Thursday, and we hope the trustees will see fit to keep open a channel of communication provided for in their own charter—the right of a professor to come before them. If Dr. Goodykoontz’s request for an audience is granted, we have no doubt but that it will be a fair hearing. We look forward to the arrival on campus of Dr. Richards and the trustees, and if they so desire, we will be glad to back up anything we have printed on the matter.

Greek Laurels

The outgoing Interfraternity Council deserves congratulations for the splendid job it did during the past year. Under the leadership of Johnny Rogers, it made significant improvements in almost all areas of its program.

The council demonstrated foresight in contracting Oscar Brown last fall. Very few people had ever heard of Oscar Brown when his signing was announced. But almost everyone who attended his concert was glad he had. Through hard work, the council obtained the services of a fine entertainer who might have been overlooked by a less efficient council seeking only a “big name.”

The IFC showed originality in arranging a street dance on the fraternity court three weekends ago. Although the dance got off to a slow start, by late evening the combos were playing to large audiences. The idea has been well received by the student body, and merits consideration for Spring Frolics next year.

The council displayed common sense and sound judgment in revising its budget. Instead of a haphazard method of trying to hire entertainment on an uncertain and often fluctuating allotment, it provided that a specific amount be set aside for each concert. This enables the IFC to make definite contracts with singers as much as a year ahead of time.

Finally, the IFC showed good taste in tentatively abolishing skit night from the Greek Week activities. What was originally intended to be a clean, competitive contest between pledge classes had by this year degenerated into a steady drool of corny gags and smutty dialogue. The council’s decision was a positive step toward making Greek Week the really meaningful experience it can be as the climax to the period of pledge training.

We hope that the newly elected IFC will carry on the standards of sound judgment, originality, and good taste established by its predecessor. To Johnny Rogers and the retiring IFC, we say thanks for a job well done.

David Stitt

General Bans Catapult, To Save Gods, Himself

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

One of the more interesting books to arrive at the Davidson Library is Cornelius Hackl's "The Role of Montenegro in the Great Crusade." The following is an excerpt from this fascinating volume.

All went well until the Montenegrin contingent decided to quit its aimless meanderings and elected to lay siege to the ancient and highly fortified town of Veritas. During the course of the battle, a subaltern noted that the traditional weapon of Montenegro, the sheepskin sword, was highly ineffective against the town’s defenses. This weapon was the national mainstay and had been used since time immemorial. It was merely a piece of parchment embellished with Latin aphorisms which was used in the second way: if the enemy did not at once flee from its display, it was rolled up and used as a club. A devastating effect was made if several metal keys attached to a chain were also thrown at the assailant. The use of the sheepskin sword was accompanied by a series of traditional dance steps and elaborate gesticulations.

Despite limited rural encounters which were successful for Montenegro, the siege of Veritas was going anything but well when the weapons controversy broke out. Lt. G. was upset that no progress was being made, despite the fact that messengers to the home front carried vivid stories of victory and success. He therefore decided to try to make some of the press releases good, and instructed his platoon to forget about the sheepskin sword and its elaborate ritual and devise their own means for breaching the defenses. This innovation was followed by spectacular success in many quarters.

However, General M. and his aide-de-camp, Col. J., noticed with alarm that the best of the new weapons, a catapult affair, was notoriously inaccurate, and as often as it struck the defenses of Veritas with devastating effect it also lobbed projectiles into the Montenegrin Command Post. The commanders then thought it advisable to limit use of the new weapon lest it destroy some of the tin gods in the Temple adjacent to Headquarters. Lt. G. bitterly opposed this regression to the ineffectual siege methods, as well as attempts to have the catapults fire only wads of paper so that if they did not harm the enemy they at least did not harm the tin gods. Eventually, the catapults were used to shoot glowing accounts of Montenegro's supposed victories back to the homeland to further recruiting.

Accounts vary from dismissal to resignation, but Lt. G. left the army after the siege of Veritas turned into internecine combat within the Montenegrin forces. It was a battle of the Staff and the unit commanders, for the troops withheld from taking sides, an old Montenegrin custom whenever there was a chance that either side might lose. In the end, Lt. G. had set up his rival temple with its tin gods and these came under attack not only by the loyal sheepskin sword faction, but, curiously enough, by some catapults still in isolated employment against the defenses of Veritas. The Duke of Sophia, theater commander, at once ordered an investigation of the delays at Veritas. When the results were in he could only ask, so the report goes, “Certainly both are wrong; it is sad when in this world we must choose this which is only less wrong than that.”

The army of Montenegro thus lost its opportunity and returned home to a confetti parade of erroneous releases from the front and the fireside dreams of could-have-been. It was evident that had more caution been used in the aim of the catapult, the whole mess might have been averted. Yet it remains a fact that severe damage was inflicted on the Veritas defenses even while the erratic new weapons were directed towards the Staff. Another sad fact was that the Staff, although they achieved a technical victory in the dispute, returned home without an army. Shreds of parchment swords were noted in the confetti.

If there is a lesson from this bit of history it is this: in dangerous quests the only effective tools are also dangerous. One must either risk the fight or lock himself and his own sacred cattle in a dark bomb shelter. And sometimes you must choose not the white, but the lighter shades of gray.

Nazi Solicits Student Probers

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Rockwell

Ed. Note: The following is an authentic letter received by the editor this week from Lincoln Rockwell, commander of the American Nazi Party, 928 North Randolph St., Arlington, Va.

Special Message to College Students:

In spite of what you may have heard, we need money. We survive mostly by fanatical will and “Yankee” ingenuity.

Parker

Dear Editor:

I was somewhat surprised in the manner in which your editorial of last week passed over the real tragedy of Dr. Goodykoontz. This is that “...a man with brilliant thoughts who can present his ideas with knifelike clarity...” felt that the only way he could bring about either public interest or action by the administration was by the method he used.

In fact, the display in question was not the first move but rather the culmination of a series of disputes which stretch back over the past year, and during this time Dr. Goodykoontz used his powers of logical expression. The day before his retirement Dean Johnston personally phoned Dr. Goodykoontz’s brother and told him Dr. Goodykoontz was withdrawing.

Ferris

Dear Editor:

The controversy over creativity at Davidson during the last few weeks has literally ripped our campus apart. During this controversy we have seen the reaction of our administration when their authority is really questioned. It is strange that the Charlotte Observer would refuse to cover the story of Dr. Goodykoontz's struggle for creativity or print letters written from the college. The only notice of his withdrawal was a carefully-worded article supplied by the college.

Since the American Nazi Party was founded five years ago we have had so many young students come to “join” for the sole purpose of gathering material for theses and so many reporters “join” to write “exposés” that we have had to make a rule: no more “joiners” without a $5.00 contribution to the cause. This weeds out the phonies and helps us survive.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Rick Finch

BUSINESS MANAGER
Bill Pridgen

Associate Editors
Jimmy Downey
Bill Ruth

Photographers
Joe McCutchen
Jeff Wampler
Buck Lawrimore

Managing Editors
Charles Dibble

Cartoonists
Dan Adams

Assistant Editor
Charles Ramberg

Sports Editor
Rick von Unwerth

Assistant Sports Editor
Rick Lowery

Feature Editor
Tuck Jones

Assignments Editor
Tom Loflin

Advertising Manager
John Todd

Circulation Manager
Johnny Wright

Assistant Bus. Manager
Walter MacDonald

Rufus Hallmark
Charlie Smith
Irvine Welling
Malcolm Lane

Contributors This Week:
Tom Vinson, Bill Hufford, George Fain, Bill Aitken, Britt Snider, Kerr Thompson, Tom Craig, Don McKinnon, Greg Govan, Tom Anderson, Forrest Roles, Bob Strauser, and Charlie Shapard.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Texas Hospitality Wows Richardson Hitchhikers

BY GUIDO FRIEDEL
Richardson Scholar

The following story will show you why I prefer hitchhiking to any other kind of travel. We (fellow traveler Alex Wustmann and I) made it to Houston in twenty-eight hours. From there I went on alone and everything was fine till I touched the desert south of Corpus Christi. The sun was glaring and no cars stopped for hours. I felt exhausted, crushed, and had visions of THE DAVIDSONIAN with the headline: “Dried-Out Corpse of Richardson Scholar Found Beside Texas Road.” But suddenly a young Texan came by and showed a hospitality and helpfulness which would have been hard for me to believe before. Like most Texans, his family owned a big ranch and that was where he took me, explaining to me that I had chosen the wrong way to Mexico City and that the right one was through Laredo. In Falfurrias we found out that this day there were no more trains leaving for Mexico City. At once his wonderful family invited me to stay overnight and I accepted after a certain period of polite hesitation. To kill the rest of the day we went skeet-shooting and I fired the first thirty shots into the blue Texas sky while the skeets sailed.away untouched. To cut it short, I had a great, marvelous time. Next morning I got (besides sandwiches and a medicine for diarrhea, the fear of the tourist in Mexico) a letter of recommendation which I had to give to their friends in Mexico City personally. After that, they flew me to Laredo in their private airplane and bid me farewell. And luck actually accompanied me. In Mexico, I was again invited by these friends to stay in their home in one of the best sections of the city, and later, together with Wustmann, they showed us the important points of attraction in and outside the “Distrito Federal.” At parties they gave, we met many young people and had a wonderful time together with them. Reluctantly we finally decided to leave. As cactus plants are good souvenirs to take from Mexico, I plucked two of them and tried to smuggle them back into “The Land of The Free.” But you are not free if you are carrying cactus plants! I had hidden them carefully in the sleeve of my jacket, carrying it nonchalantly over my arm. The elderly uniformed lady at the customs, of course, asked if we had plants. I forgot about being a Davidson Gentleman and denied vehemently. Soon she found my cactus plants, looked disgusted, confiscated them, and said she had to fine me one dollar. Two days later, we were back in Davidson after a vacation which we never had expected to be so adventuresome and rich in the meeting of new friends. I really recommend to you: hitchhike to Mexico City, but watch the old customs girl in Laredo. She is sneaky.

It has occurred to me that we might put “spying” here on a paying basis for the Party. In spite of the fact that I have been cleared many times by psychiatrists as perfectly sane and mentally competent, the illusion persists among some intellectual groups that because I espouse openly some of the doctrines of Adolf Hitler, I must be “nuts.” University departments of social psychology, sociology, political science, and philosophy have displayed so much interest in the Party and my person that I believe there must be many students who would welcome the chance to live with and observe our Stormtroops and myself in action over a period of time. As an experiment, therefore, I have decided to offer a very limited number of sincere students the opportunity to spend the summer living and working with us for the purpose of professional study, for a moderate fee. Students to be accepted will have the opportunity of working outdoors on our farms, participating in or observing all Party activities as they may desire, sitting in on Party meetings, studying all phases of our operations, accompanying me on speaking tours, etc. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and all Police Authorities will be clearly informed that such students are NOT members of the Party and that they are NOT working for the Party. It would be inappropriate and impractical to go into further details in a letter such as this. Interested students should write me personally for descriptive literature, answers to questions, and application blanks. HEIL HITLER! Lincoln Rockwell

Without seeming to achieve any lasting solution (or even an honest effort at one) to the basic problem of the administration’s wanting something for nothing. While he may have resorted to questionable methods (and statements) in his display, this makes the problem no less valid. It is without doubt a tragedy that Dr. Goodykoontz has been relieved. He, however, will be able to find some other place for his talents. A more meaningful fact is that with him will go one of the few stimulating factors that have kept alive the interest of the small number of students who have not succumbed to the general apathetic atmosphere that prevails on campus. As a student, I realize that the members of the administration have both knowledge and judgment superior to mine and that they are under no obligation to explain their actions to any student. Knowing that they are part of a church-supported college, however, I will suggest that they refer to Daniel 11:31-38, and see if they notice a resemblance that a surprising number of people on campus think exists... Who can tell... they might want to change it. Feet of gold that would equal our alleged head would in truth make us the best college of our kind in the nation. Joseph F. Parker

PEANUTS

I KNOW WHAT, SNOOPY? I DON'T UNDERSTAND PEOPLE

He was “mentally ill” and “in need of psychiatric care.” Dr. Goodykoontz was never informed about this call until his family arrived on Saturday. The administration was obviously aware of the effect this call would have on his family and the pressures which would be brought upon him. The point of this article is not to condemn the administration for their actions in this controversy. The sad part of our story at Davidson is that their actions merely reflect the state of the church which brought these pressures to bear through the administration. During the controversy, for instance, it was rumored that J. McDowell Richards phoned the president and demanded that Dr. Goodykoontz be removed from the school. The validity of this rumor cannot be confirmed, but it is in keeping with Dr. Richards’ statement that a faculty member at Davidson “does not have the freedom to teach what he wants. However, he does have the freedom to think as he wishes and the freedom to leave.” Students and faculty at Davidson are subject to such pressures from the Southern Presbyterian Church whose leaders are afraid of any ideas that conflict with their own. This attitude is shown in the restrictive oaths required of all full professors and in the Administration's refusal to allow Communist speakers on campus. Given this situation, how can we hope to improve our college in the coming year? One means is cooperative leadership among students, faculty, and administration. Unless we stand up to the pressures of the church together, our college can never break the mold they are trying to force upon us. Bill Ferris Scales

Dear Editor: I am concerned that the Davidson College administration has so little concern for the prestige of the college. Dr. Goodykoontz has made many bold and shocking accusations. Yet the administration has so far been “hush-hush" in defending itself. Should the “good reputation of the college” be lost by default? Let's stamp out this heresy with an open, public presentation of the facts. Davidson has been slapped in the face; the challenge must be met! We, the students, must be armed with the facts, in order to stand behind our “dear old Alma Mater” as seconds to an administration of “integrity” in its duel, honorably fought. Naturally aspiring to be a “Davidson Gentleman,” I have absolute confidence in the judgment of the administration, but a few matters still puzzle me. Why has Dr. Goodykoontz been asked to leave with three-fourths of the semester gone? What is going to happen to his students, many heretofore enthusiastic English majors? Are other professors to be overloaded with his already heavy load? Who can adequately step in at this late date? How can Dr. Goodykoontz's students be examined and their work evaluated by another who does not know what has been presented for three-fourths of the semester? May Davidson's “fine reputation” not go down the drain in silence. Bob Scales Lewis

Dear Editor: I feel that the impressions, after nearly one year, of a more-or-less impartial observer, might be of value to all sections of Davidson College. Davidson's object in setting out to produce “well-rounded, whole men” is, I think, open to query. Although it is highly desirable to have a liberal arts education, must this mean “well-rounded men?” How many men, who have stood out in history, have been well-rounded and whole? Very few, I think—it is the individual, who still has his outstanding, unrounded, salient edges, that will leave his mark upon the age in which he lives. This individuality can be brought out in two major ways. Firstly, the admission of more students of different cultural, social, economic, and geographic backgrounds, will inevitably cause discussions, arguments, and thoughts to arise. It is the ideas of this generation that will govern the United States twenty years from now. Secondly, an individual sense of responsibility is essential for balanced ideas; and responsibility can only come about where there is freedom in which to exercise this responsibility. Davidson students have not abused the new cut-system, so why not give them the chance to show their responsibility in other fields? Davidson College today is governing the thoughts, ideas, and ideals of the United States of tomorrow. Is this not a challenge worth accepting? Jonathan B. Lewis, Richardson Scholar

Now I JUST LET TO UNDERSTAND