PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1963

Vagabonds Finish Season With “Arms And The Man”

The Vagabonds have scheduled George Bernard Shaw’s “Arms and the Man” for May 1-4 as their last major production for this semester. English Professor W. H. Tilley, who will be the Vagabonds guest director in this production, is particularly impressed with this work. According to Tilley, the play is especially interesting because it illustrates Shaw's idea of comedy. “Shaw felt that a comedy should do more than amuse the viewer,” Tilley said. “At this time he employed the form to show the ludicrous consequences of basing one's life on illusion.”

Major Bluntschli, the practical professional soldier who feels his work calls for him to duck bullets more than seek them out, will be played by English Professor J. R. Gross. Sergius, the Bulgarian Baron, is to be played by Bob Chumbley. Shaw called Sergius a Hamlet in the comic spirit, a man torn between the romantic ideals of soldiering and the startling disillusionment of soldiering in fact. Virginia Cornue of Huntersville, who appeared in “Winterset,” will take the role of Raina in this production. Laura Ann Stevens of Davidson, who appeared in “The Adding Machine,” will play the part of Catherine Petkoff.

Others in the cast include: Geoffrey Luckock from Dorset, England, in the role of Major Petkoff; Professor C. E. Lloyd as Nicola; and Bill Vermilye in the role of a Bulgarian officer. The drama “Arms and the Man” deals with mankind’s romantic ideas about love, war, and patriotism. The setting of the play is the Serbo-Bulgarian War. The action of the play begins with the flight of the Serbian Army's ranking officer from combat. He climbs onto a veranda which leads to the bedroom of the daughter of the ranking officer of the Bulgarian Army. There the entire first act takes place.

Tilley said the play seemed to be shaping up well in spite of the short amount of time that has been available to work on it. Said Tilley, “I believe the spirit and talent shown in preparing this play prove that Davidson has the necessary core for a successful drama program next year.” Tilley expressed his regret in losing Buddy Brauch to the army. “Buddy has done a fine job for us in the past on sets and lighting.” Due to Brauch’s absence, Bill Denham will be in charge of sets, and Chum Roberts will take care of lighting. Dr. Cliff Albergotti of the physics department is in charge of sound effects. Courtney Hill, who provided costumes for “Androcles and the Lion,” will provide costumes for this play also.

The price of admission has been reduced to 50¢ for the general public and 25¢ for Davidson students. Tilley wished to express his appreciation for the help the administration had given him in producing the play. “They've really bent over backwards to help us out,” he said.

CAUGHT IN THE ACT — English Professor James R. Gross and Virginia Cornue practice their parts in George Bernard Shaw's “Arms and the Man,” playing May 1-4 in Hodson Hall. (Staff Photo by Raynal)

Integration Poll (Continued From Page One)

Atte. I look forward to further advancement.” Professor Ratliff suggested economic boycott of segregated facilities. Patterson summarized a number of other peaceful, legal means to attain the goal. “This is a valid, effective method of social protest and should have as good a standing as legal action, economic pressure, boycotts, political or other indirect effort,” stated economics professor Patterson. “It violates no traditions or fundamental concepts of religion, philosophy, or ethics on which this country is based. Indeed, it is in line with this nation’s finest traditions,” he continued. Professor Polley indicated that illegal methods ought to be used if legal ones won't work. “I favor civil disobedience, such as picketing even if it is illegal, so long as those taking the action for doing such an illegal act are willing to accept the consequences. I would break the law in a civil way if necessary,” he stated.

Everyone questioned on the local question favored the stand that the college should take no action against participants in picketing. “So long as students do not do anything illegal or violent, Davidson would as far as I know institute no action against them,” stated President Martin. Philosophy professor Rhodes stated three criteria that should be considered by potential participants. First, “he should consider his personal motives pretty carefully. One should go into something like this with an educated conscience.” Secondly, the student should consider the consequences of his action and whether he is willing and able to bear them. Thirdly, a student should carefully consider the effect on his parents of his act, discussing his participation in picketing with them if necessary when publicity of his action might reach his home town.

Artists Perform Exchange Recitals

Miss Patricia Marie Smith of Winthrop College and Michael E. Arrowood of Davidson College, sophomore organ majors, will exchange organ recitals soon. Miss Smith will be heard at 4 p.m., Sunday, April 28, in the sanctuary of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Arrowood will play in Byrnes Auditorium, Winthrop College, Rock Hill, the following Sunday, May 5 at 4 p.m. Miss Smith is a resident of Orangeburg, S. C., while Arrowood hails from Shelby, N. C. They are students of Wilmer H. Welsh, assistant professor of music at Winthrop and visiting professor of organ at Davidson. The recitals are open to the public without charge.

RENT NEW CARS AND SAVE UP

Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II and Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Rent a car the BUDGET Way, less per mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you need. We Feature Free Hotel and Airport Pickup and Delivery Service. 376-0213 301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte

New Council Draws Bead On All-Night Poker Parties

BY JIM GRAVES Davidsonian Staff Writer

Student gambling seized the limelight as the new Student Council held its first meeting last night. All members were present, as well as two of last year’s members, John Killian and Larry Leafer, and Honor Court Chairman, Howard Arbuckle. The gambling problem was discovered recently when the Honor Court and Student Council learned of the numerous all-night poker parties in which participants win as much as $35 per night. Arbuckle brought the seriousness of the problem to the attention of the council, saying that the problem had been discussed at length at the first meeting of the Honor Court. Arbuckle said the gambling has not been limited to a certain group or fraternity, but by a combination of groups. The council tabled a motion by John Killian to rescind the faculty rule on gambling, which states that an organized game

After Vespers

The following professors

IFC Sets Possible Dates For Dance Weekends

BY BILL AUFFORD Davidsonian Staff Writer

Haynes Kelly took over as president of theInterfraternity Council Monday night and began to shape its plans for next year. Fronting the council along with Kelly are: IFC Secretary Jim Binkley—Sig Ep, Larry Baucom—Phi Gam, Jim Overton—Pika, Pete Crow—Sigma Nu, Steve Heckard—Kappa Sig, Britt Smith—Phi Delt, Rick von Unwerth—ATO, IFC Treasurer George Worthen—Pi Kapp, Barry Teague—Sigma Chi, and Ed Haselden—Beta. (The SAE’s have not yet elected their representative.)

Kelly set the tentative dates for the next year’s dance weekends as Homecoming, Oct. 26-27; Mid-Winters, Feb. 14-15; and Spring Frolics, April 16-17. Bemoaning the task of signing top-notch performers for each weekend, Kelly commented, “People just don’t realize how much trouble it is. First, they must be in your price range; second, someone the people want; and third, they must be in the area at the right time.” Trying to find out what kind of weekend the students want, the IFC distributed questionnaires after chapel Thursday. “We want to let them have their choice," explained Kelly. The opinions drawn from the questionnaire will be the basis for next year's Mid-Winters and Spring Frolics. The tentative plan for Homecoming and the football game with Presbyterian is to have a concert and a semi-formal dance. As for Mid-Winters, the questionnaire will answer whether there will be two concerts, a concert and a dance, two dances, or a concert or dance with a basketball game. Athletic Director Tom Scott will try to arrange a basketball game if the students want it. “I haven’t really thought about the concert weekends,” Kelly went on, “They will probably be as usual in November and March with the possibility of a third after Spring Frolics.” The third concert weekend hinges on the financial situation of the IFC. “It was canceled this year because of lack of funds," said Kelly. “The biggest advantage of the new financial set-up is that we know how much money we have to spend and can get our deposits in earlier. Hopefully, we'll have fewer cancellations and better entertainment.”

Local Pastor Gives Vespers Message

The vespers speaker Sunday night will be Russell T. Montfort, DD, pastor of the Davidson Methodist Church. His topic will be “Brave New Religion.” Montfort, born in Kentucky, received his AB from Kentucky Western and his BD from Duke. He was awarded a DD degree by Davidson in 1961. He has served at the Davidson Methodist Church for six years. Before coming here, he was pastor in Thomasville, N.C., and associate pastor in Burlington. He is presently chairman of the YMCA Board of Directors. After this Sunday there will be only three more vespers services this semester.

Writer Will Speak For Artist Series

Donald Hall, a poet from the University of Michigan, has been selected to read for the Poetry Circuit in North Carolina. Hall’s appearance at Davidson Monday, April 29, is sponsored by the Artist Series. The Poetry Circuit, established in 1961 under the sponsorship of the University of North Carolina Press, Chapel Hill, brings into the state two poets each academic year for readings of their own works at eight participating institutions. Hall is the author of two volumes of poetry, Exiles and Marriages, which was the Lamont Poetry Selection of the Academy of American Poets, and, more recently, The Dark Horses. His poems have appeared in the New Yorker, Partisan Review, Harper’s and other magazines. At one time Hall was editor of the Paris Review. His first prose work was “String too Short to be Saved,” containing recollections of a New England childhood. Union with Sigma Upsilon Literary societies of Davidson and Queens will be followed by a poetry reading by Hall in the Union ballroom at 7:30 p.m.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

Gary L. Lewis John U. of San Fran. N.T.G. Rosenis 3. Kansas State America's hottest new sports convertible! Did you win in Lap 4? IMPORTANT! If you hold any of the 20 winning numbers, claim your Pontiac Tempest LeMans Convertible in accordance with the rules on the reverse of your license plate. Girls! You may choose instead a thrilling expense-paid 2-week Holiday in Europe—for two! Plus $500 in cash! All claims for Tempest must be postmarked no later than April 27, 1963. If you hold a Consolation Prize number, you win a 4-speed Portable Hi-Fi Stereo Set, “The Waltz” by RCA Victor. Or, you may still win a Tempest! (See official claiming rules on reverse of your license plate, and observe claiming dates given above.) Get with the winners... far ahead in smoking satisfaction!

John Spratt, student body president, said that the gambling must stop. Spratt appointed himself, Fred McGuirt, and Tommy Heffner to a committee to study in detail the problem. More action on the gambling problem will be taken up at the next meeting. Other items discussed included: Summer Honor Court, NSA delegates and convention, dormitory behavior, Student Council absence policy, and the freshman regulations. Spratt closed the meeting with a statement of what he hopes the Student Council would be next year. He said: “I hope next year's council can move towards centralizing organization on campus and trying to work more constructively. If we try, as a council, we can have some real influence on the Davidson campus.”

Ancil K. Nance Portland State LAP 3! D. B. MacRitchie J. L. Millard, Jr. J. O. Gallegos, III Ft. Hays State U. of New Mexico Morrie S. Boyer U. of Georgia P. S. Holder, Jr. St. Mary's U. Justin C. Burns St. Bonaventure U. G. J. Tarnativich Worcester Holy (Staff) 1. 0320072 6. A316471 2. 8552083 7. 6175380 3. 0631155 8. A191483 4. 0148138 9. 6702672 5. 0591755 10. 4921785

Consolation Prize Numbers! 1. B381051 6. A926504 11. B527200 16. A287504 21. B321985 2. A261910 7. C979857 12. B924685 17. A127568 22. B324951 3. A051037 8. A713453 13. B995876 18. B872223 23. B145985 4. B166507 9. C831483 14. C095685 19. B521682 24. C312678 5. A051854 10. B095565 15. C251165 20. A957865 25. B875328

Filters LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO. SEE THE PONTIAC TEMPEST AT YOUR NEARBY PONTIAC DEALER!