VOL. LIII

Commander Ivan Rohrer taps Cadet Jeff Wampler into membership in the honorary military organization SCABBARD AND BLADE while Advisor Capt.
Donald Campbell looks on. Other cadets obtaining coveted bids at drill based on their leadership abilities were Gene McCutchen, Andy
Sale, Butch Covington, Chip Derrick, Jimmy Lewis, George Little, Bob Ivey, Dan Adams, and Mac Morris. (Gnome Photo by Chatterjee)

YMCA Fund Campaign Nets $2,600 In Drive
BY HARRY CARR

More than $2,600 in student contributions and pledges is the result of the 1963 fund-raising campaign of the Davidson YMCA,
it was announced this week. Faculty donations and offerings from the vesper services will add about another $1,000 to the
funds of the YMCA, according to President Joe Howell. Although the final figure will still be far below the anticipated
$4,500, Howell expressed the hope that the organization can still carry out its projects efficiently.

At the present time, the Great Issues Program is the service club's largest project. Of the six scheduled speakers on
“Emerging Africa,” three have already made appearances on the campus. Other speakers for the near future include David D. Newsom,
deputy director in the office of North African affairs at the State Department; Godfrey K. J. Amachree, under secretary of
the U.N. Department of Trusteeship for Non-Self Governing Nations; and the Davidson Valedictorian of the class of 1960, David W.
Robinson, Jr., who has spent the last two years in Senegal after graduate work at Union Theological Seminary, New York.

The YMCA will present its Book of the Year lecturer shortly after Thanksgiving this year. Although there has been no
report of the identity of the scheduled speaker, the group has definitely signed an author.

Under the direction of Steve Ramsburgh, the community services committee is sponsoring a basketball league two nights a week for
the Negro men over 18 of Davidson. In addition, YMCA members are coaching a Little League Football team for Davidson
youngsters of 12 years and younger. They are also acting as den leaders for cub scout groups. Teen canteens for
Negroes and whites is another undertaking of the Y members this year. Already in progress, the canteen for colored students
takes place every Friday night at the Ada Jenkins gym from 8-10 p.m. Although still in the planning stages, the
white canteen will go into action soon, according to Howell.

Also in the planning are the coaching of wrestling at Torrence-Lytle School and an activities period for children at the
Ada Jenkins School for four or five afternoons a week. In the spring, the Y will supervise Davidson Little League
Baseball.

In the spiritual life realm, the Christian group is conducting voluntary chapels on Wednesday mornings at 10:20 in Lingle Chapel.
With a regular attendance of about 25, the chapels are drawing far more students than in previous years.

For the success of the whole YMCA program this year, Howell called for the continued support of the entire student
body. He also pointed out that there are still opportunities for students to work on a Y project. Assignments are
available either from the area chairmen or in the office on the second floor of the Student Union.

Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1963

Who’s Who Recognizes

Parents Convene Here For Annual Parents Day
BY CHARLES EDWARDS

Approximately 350-400 parents began arriving on campus today for the 1963 Freshman Parents Day, an event which serves to introduce
the parents of the Class of 1967 to the school, the faculty, the freshmen, and the fraternities.

The official program will begin tonight with a Wind Ensemble concert in Hodson Hall to be followed by a coffee
hour for the parents and the Ensemble in the Stowe Art Galleries. Saturday morning’s activities include registration, a coffee in
the Student Union, tours of the campus conducted by members of the Freshman Class, and visitations of dormitories, the ROTC
Department, and selected classes.

From noon until 1:15 p.m. a luncheon will be served for the freshmen and their parents in the Banquet Room
of Chambers. Following this, an assembly in Chambers Auditorium will be held. Ben Reeves, acting chairman of the Freshman Council,
will serve as master of ceremonies, while Chaplain Will Terry, Dean Richard C. Burts, and President D. Grier Martin will
speak to the assembly. Music will be provided by the Chapel Choir.

Immediately following the assembly, a faculty reception will be held on the lawn of President Martin’s home. This reception will
serve another purpose since the majority of the freshmen have not yet met Dr. and Mrs. Martin, who have been
in Europe. Most of the fraternities will then hold open house until 6 p.m. Unlike normal policy, supper will be
served in the Union tomorrow night for the benefit of those who do not have other plans. Weekend activities will
close with a Vagabond workshop production in Hodson Hall in which freshmen and other new members of the dramatic group
will present two one-act comedies and a scene from “The Importance of Being Earnest.”

Parents Day is being coordinated and conducted by the Freshman Council, the student-elected voice of the Class of 1967. This
group of 21 freshmen is representative of nine states and includes pledges of nine fraternities in addition to three Independents.
Student Union Director C. Shaw Smith opened the first meeting of the council with

Quebec-Cuba Peace Walk Shows Beliefs -- And Fears
BY TOM LOFLIN

They are a group walking, they hope, to Cuba. And every mile they tread is stepped with the phantom companion
terror. Because they could speak freely here, 10 of the more than 20 members of the Committee for Nonviolent Action’s
Quebec-to-Guantanamo Walk sat on a stage in the College Union Monday night and looked out over stony-faced Cubans and skeptical
students. They did not attempt to convey their escort, fear, to the audience; and yet it was with them the
whole time that they spoke words of peace in a world with none.

The 10 came from all walks of life; there were men and boys and girls. All had two things in
common: the deep conviction that peace is the only answer for mankind and the apprehension that they would not publicly
admit. In the words of Marvin Davidov, their official spokesman that night, the overall objectives of the CNVA is “for
each nation to unilaterally disarm, for all peoples to resist their military leaders and for every nation to adopt a
policy of nonviolent action to defend its interests.”

Their desire, then, as publicly stated, is for the dove to fly over the world; their walk, which originated in
Quebec, is designed to gain the true story in Cuba while attempting to persuade the Castroites by marching from Havana
to Guantanamo to send the Russians home and live in harmony with this country. And they also want the United
States to live in peace with Cuba—Castro’s Cuba. Castro’s representatives have assured them they will be welcome.

Their leader, Brad Little, the man who organized the walk relying on experience gleaned from a similar march he organized
and carried out through East Germany, Poland, and Russia, is a picture of contrasts. He did not appear particularly peaceful
in the question-and-answer period Monday night; he repeatedly spoke sarcastically and sharply to various questioners, especially Cubans having trouble with
the language. But Little was all for friendship to prevail among nations. It may have been that he was merely
trying to illustrate that without an attempt on the part of people to have harmonious relations with one another, there
can be no peace.

David Names Staff Of ‘Cat Handbook
Roger David, newly-elected editor of the 1964-65 Wildcat Handbook, filled the major posts on next year’s handbook staff Wednesday in
announcing his appointments. David, who won the election for the editorship on Monday over Ed Stopher by a narrow margin
of 199-192, is a pre-medical student and a member of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity.

The new staff includes business manager, Bob Bryan; associate editor, Dave Orr; and sports editor, Danny Boone, with Jennings Bryant,
Alan Johnson, Ernie Larkin, and Jim McQueen serving as section editors. Bill Council completes the staff appointments as an assistant
to the business manager.

David said in an interview, “I would welcome any suggestions from the student body for additions to the new book,
and also criticisms concerning what they liked and did not like about last year’s handbook.” David said that he had
already written several schools for copies of their handbooks, so that the best aspects of these books might be incorporated
in ours.

David also announced that some minor positions on the handbook staff were still open to any interested students and urged
those students to contact him as soon as possible. “The section editors have not yet been assigned specific sections,” David
said. This will be done in the near future when the staff is complete. These editors asked to serve in
some capacity on the new staff when David was elected.

Charlotte Baptist Vespers Speaker
Dr. Carlyle Marney, pastor of Myers Park Baptist Church in Charlotte, will speak at Sunday night vesper service on “The
Back Side Of Virtue.” Having served on study committees of The World Council of Churches and The Baptist World Alliance,
he has lectured at over 50 colleges and universities and has traveled throughout the world. He is a familiar figure
at many overseas bases of the U.S. armed forces.

Dr. Marney heads a six-minister staff at his home church, which is engaged in one of the nation-wide American Protestantism
projects. A native of Harriman, Tenn., Dr. Marney received his AB degree from Carson-Newman College and his ThM and ThD
from the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary.

NONVIOLENT DISCUSSION — Participating in the Quebec-to-Guantanamo Walk, 10 members of the sponsoring Committee for Nonviolent Action got as far
as Davidson Monday night. They agreed to publicly discuss their— s | 4 positions on unilateral disarmament, explain the purpose
of their march from Canada to Cuba with students in the College Union. Also present for discussion were several Castro
Cubans. (Staff Photo by Chatterjee)

To the question: “Are you ‘politically ahead of your time?” he answered, “Obviously.” Davidov explained how he thought the ONVA,
through such maneuvers as walks, could help the world move closer to peace: “By our walks and examples of civil
disobedience, we effect the cheapest advertising possible. We hope to start people to thinking and then acting for peace.”

A humbler member of the walk, Ken Meister, explained why he is so passionately devoted to the committee. “I think
our committee can help reduce tension in this country. Through our marches and literature, I think we made the people
of this country more conscious of peace,” he said, “and thus helped the test ban treaty pass by as big
a margin as it did in the Senate.”

When it was suggested that the committee might not succeed in its goals of creating more goodwill in the U.S.
for our enemies, Little did an obviously unusual thing for a man with his beliefs—he grew angry. “Of course we'll
succeed,” he snapped. “Our idea of nonviolence has already taken hold in the world. It’s a growing philosophy, the coming
thing. Why, the most powerful nonviolent movement in the world is going on in this country today, the integration movement.
Our walk participated in the Negro march on Washington, by the way.”

Davidov and Little both expressed determination to carry out their trip to Havana. Davidov said he felt definitely that the
government would attempt to stop them when they tried to sail from Miami in two boats they have waiting for
them. "I think some of us will be arrested in Miami; there’s no getting around it,” Davidov said. “But we
plan to arrive in that city on Christmas Day for maximum press coverage and announce to the government just when
and from where we will sail. I expect they will take out an injunction.”

(Continued On Page Four)

some comments on the duties and responsibilities which accompany council membership. “While you have no authority as such, you are
still the official influence of the Freshman Class,” Smith said. “You are the medium through which the freshmen and the
rest of the school communicate, a sounding board of both freshman opinion and opinions about freshmen.”

At this meeting, a cafeteria committee which had previously been chosen, consisting of Brooks Sheldon, Tom Frist, and Stanley Brown,
went over the functions of their group which acts as a liaison between the freshmen and the cafeteria staff. They
also recommended that a suggestion box which will soon be available be used in a constructive manner.

However, major emphasis was given to the planning of Parents Day. Committees were appointed to handle program, meals, accommodations, tours,
publicity, and registration. These committees will assist coordinator Smith and Mrs. J. B. Moore. Frist was elected as social chairman
for the 1963-64 school year. Council officers will not be elected until after grade reports, however. Freshman Advisor Tommy Stafford
said, “We also plan to build up the freshman-sophomore Field Day. This hasn't amounted to much in the past and
it’s partially our fault; we're going to see what we can do to make it bigger and better this year.”

Members of the Freshman Male Council are Ken Autrey, Stanley Brown, Sam Cathey, Bob Dugger, John Fagg, Tom Frist, Ray
Garrison, Charles Goodykoontz, Bryant Hinnant, G. L. Klutz, Tom Puckett, Ben Reeves, Tim Rothermel, Jesse Sims, Brooks Sheldon, and Peter
Van Dorsten.

Martin Receives Honorary Degree

Davidson College President D. Grier Martin received the honorary doctor of laws degree from the University of North Carolina in
ceremonies in UNC's Hill Music Hall at Chapel Hill celebrating the university's 170th anniversary.

Chancellor William B. Aycock presided over the ceremonies commemorating the laying of the cornerstone of the first building on the
UNC campus, Old East, in 1793. Following an address on the role of a university in the nuclear age, delivered
by Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Paul Green, the LL.D. degree was conferred on Martin. The citation for the degree reads in
part:

“North Carolina is justly proud of the college of which Dr. Martin is the chief executive, an institution which, through
the years, has nurtured sound scholars, men destined to become famous in religion, in the arts and sciences, in business,
in the academic world, and in government. In recognition of this remarkable achievement, and in the light of his dynamic
leadership, the University of North Carolina is delighted to bestow on Dr. Martin the degree of Doctor of Laws.”

Martin graduated cum laude from Davidson in 1932 with a BS in history. Honorary degrees conferred on him include the
doctor of laws degree awarded by King College, Bristol, Tenn., by Wake Forest College in 1959, and by Duke University
in 1960.

CAT SOCCER TEAM STILL UNDEFEATED (See Page Three)

NUMBER SIX

19 Davidson Seniors

Nineteen Davidson seniors have been chosen for recognition in Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities, the Dean's office announced
this week.

@ Ackerman, editor and business manager for the Scripts ‘n Pranks, is a history major from Louisville, Ky. He is
a member of the Publications Board and Pi social fraternity.

@ Arbuckle, a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, is chairman of the Honor Court. A member of Scabbard and
Blade, Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity, and the D Club, he is a history major from Charlotte.

@ Baum, editor of Quips and Cranks and a member of ODK, is a history major from Milledgeville, Ga. Baum
is also a member of the Publications Board, Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity, and Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity.

@ Bryant, a varsity soccer player and past head cheerleader, is an economics major from Atlanta. He is a member
of the YMCA cabinet and is in Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

@ Dillon, a Dana Scholar and member of the Cadet Headquarters in ROTC, is an English major from High Point.
He is president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

@ Heidt, president of Male Chorus and cabinet member of the YMCA, is an English major from Clearwater, Fla. He
plans to enter the ministry and is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

@ Howell, president of the YMCA and president of ODK, is a history major from Nashville. He is a member
of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and plans to enter the ministry.

@ Ivey is treasurer of Sigma Chi social fraternity and is a history and English major from Americus, Ga. He
was director of the 1963 Freshman Camp, is program chairman of the YMCA, and is a member of the Eumanean
Literary Society.

@ Kelly, a member of Scabbard and Blade and president of Interfraternity Council, is an economics major from Scarsdale, N.Y.
He is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity and received an award for the most outstanding cadet in his
company at ROTC summer camp.

@ Kimrey is editor of the Wildcat Handbook and a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society. He is president of
Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity and a history and English major from Raleigh.

@ Lopp, a halfback on the Wildcat football team, is senior representative on the Honor Court. A pre-medical student from
Lexington, N.C., he is a member of the Freshman Court, D Club, Beaver Club, and Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

@ McCutchen, a psychology major from Laurens, S.C., is a photographer for THE DAVIDSONIAN and Quips and Cranks, and past
publicity chairman of the YMCA. He is past president of the Westminster Fellowship and is now president of the North
Carolina Synod of the WF.

@ MacDonald, chairman of the YMCA’s Great Issues Program and past president of Eumanean Literary Society, is from Londonderry, N.H.,
and is a history major. He is a member of the Student Council and the editorial staffs of the Wildcat
Handbook and the Scripts ‘n Pranks.

@ McGuirt, president of the Senior Class and past president of Phi Eta Sigma, is a pre-medical student from Lumberton,
N.C. He has been past president of the Sophomore Class and second vice president of the student body. He is
a member of ODK and Sigma Chi.

@ Olin, chairman of the IFC Rush Week Committee, past member of the Student Council and editor of AED, is
a pre-medical student from Columbus, Ohio. He is on the varsity soccer team and president of Sigma Chi social fraternity.

@ Spratt, president of the student body, is a Proctor and Gamble Scholar and a history honors major from York,
S.C. He is a representative on the IFC, a member of Scabbard and Blade, and president of Beta Theta Pi
social fraternity.

@ Stafford, freshman advisor and Cadet Commander of the Davidson ROTC Corps, is from Henderson. He is a member of
the Student Council, Scabbard and Blade, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

@ Stitt, editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and a member of Delta Phi Alpha and Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternities, is an
English major from Austin, Tex. He is a member of ODK, Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, and has been on
the editorial boards of Scripts ‘n Pranks and the Wildcat Handbook.

@ Warren, a Dana Scholar and president of the College Union, is a philosophy and psychology major from Chapel Hill.
He is the past president of Alpha Phi Omega, a two-year member of the Student Council, and a member of
Phi Delta Theta fraternity.
