- The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

On Biting The Hand That Protects You

We have long been unable to understand the attitude most white people in the Deep South hold toward Martin Luther
King. Some Southern tabloid or politician is forevermore cursing King as a “rabble-rouser and troublemaker.” King has been accused repeatedly
of stirring up conflict where none existed—his life has been threatened countless times, his brother’s house has been dynamited, a
friend of his was shot in the back, and in general the Southern whites have done everything possible to make
his life thoroughly miserable.

We think that Martin Luther King is about the only thing standing between the Negroes of the South and full-scale,
violent retaliation against their white tormentors. Others holding such a view of King include two of the primary leaders of
the present-day Negro revolt, James Baldwin and, oddly enough, Malcolm X. Another man who thoroughly believes in King’s deterrent power
is a peace marcher who was here this week named Ray Robinson. Robinson, a big, powerfully built Negro who was
once a prizefighter, has been engaged in non-violent demonstrations for about the last six years. For participating in civil rights
protests he has been run out of towns, beaten, shot at, had dogs and fire hoses turned on him, and
been thrown in several jails. Robinson is no coward and could obviously take care of himself, and yet he has
never hit back at anyone. Asked to explain his attitude, he stated that he believes in and lives by Martin
Luther King’s non-violent method of protest.

Now Robinson has been in the North enough to have been thoroughly exposed to the Black Muslim doctrine of black
superiority, and to their belief that militant force is the only thing that will ever impress upon the white man
how much Negroes want equal rights. As the big man put it, “King teaches his people that if a white
man hits ‘em, to turn the other cheek. Man, you walk up to one of Malcolm X’s boys and look
at him hard, and you can just about count on getting your throat cut.” But Ray Robinson, because of his
belief in Martin Luther King's principles, has resisted the obvious temptation to join the Black Muslims.

Someone asked Robinson if he thought King’s influence over Negroes in the South explained why racial clashes in the North
have consistently been more violent than those in the South, as Negroes attacked and wounded policemen and whites in several
instances. Robinson replied without hesitation, “You better believe that, friend, you better believe that. I'll tell you—Martin Luther King is
just about God to Negroes in the South, but up North he doesn’t mean a thing.” Robinson paused, looked around,
and then pointed to the group around him. “You might not believe this, because there’re 180 million of you and
just 20 million of us, but you better believe we could buck you, because we got a cause—we're fighting for
our freedom. White fanatics may be throwing dynamite at us right now, but you know—we can buy dynamite too. If
anything ever happens to Martin Luther King, I guarantee you all hell’s gonna break loose down here. In fact, it
may break loose anyway if white people keep messing around, because pretty soon the Negroes may get disillusioned in him.”

The big Negro went on to tell with no little emotion stories of incidents he had seen or heard about
in which King or one of his followers had averted an uprising and sure bloodshed. He described one scene in
particular that gave his listeners an idea of what he was talking about. Robinson told of snarling policemen smashing and
clubbing unarmed demonstrators, of vicious police dogs turned on women and children, and of fire hoses shooting powerful jets of
water at human beings as if they were trash to be washed from the street. The infuriated victims of the
brutal outrage were subsequently told by King’s men at a mass meeting to forgive their ignorant oppressors and under no
circumstances to return the violence. Thus another gigantic powder keg was doused rather than ignited, and the white community could
go on smugly perpetuating its infamous racial crimes. But if Martin Luther King ever goes...

Peace In Our Time...

THUS THROUGH NON-VIOLENCE AND A BELIEF IN THE SACREDNESS OF EVERY HUMAN LIFE, WE HOPE TO PREVENT THE TOTAL DESTRUCTION
OF CIVILIZATION BY NUCLEAR WAR AND TO BRING ABOUT CREATIVE CO-EXISTENCE AMONG ALL MEN.

By Hallmark

Freeny Lashes NSA, Calls For Referendum

BY PAT FREENY

During chapel last week the student body was sleepily confronted with the old, known benefits of membership in the National
Student Association (NSA), of which Davidson has been a member for the last three years. It seems almost suspicious that
this organization should still be submerged in the depths of obscurity. John Spratt seems to think we ought to be
members if for no other reason than to shed some provincialism. It is perhaps even more uncertain why no effort
has ever been made to introduce the yet almost unheard-of issue of the NSA.

A rather incomplete and informative account of the 1963 Congress was given. Dave Hardeman said that he had a nice
time and had breakfast with a Marxist. Then he quickly breezed by the word controversial, giving a sketchy account of
un-NSA Stands on Political Issues

The NSA has the reputation of being anti-fraternity. This is, of course, a ramification of its distinct stand on Civil
Rights. The NSA does not recognize the right of any organization, business, etc., to discriminate for membership, service, or so
forth. The NSA recommends the abolition of the House Committee on Un-American Activities. But they were honest themselves.

PEACENIKS’ DEDICATION, DAVIDSON’S HOSPITALITY DESERVE PEACEFUL SALUTE

BY RICK von UNWERTH

They oversimplified, they assumed the unassumable; they were sometimes irrational and they didn’t overdo the Right Guard-English Leather dosage. On
the other hand, the Davidson audience was bold in the confidence bred from solidarity, it snickered a little too often,
and perhaps it expressed a distorted superiority. But Davidson and the Cubans were honest too.

Monday night saw the perennial clash of the sincere idealist with the thoughtful pragmatist. Nobody won and no conversions resulted.
An inexhaustible controversy kept the Union awake until one-thirty Tuesday morning. It was good exercise. The Peacewalkers respected Davidson for
the hospitality they enjoyed, the friends they made, and the audience they confronted. One of them expressed his intention to
apply for admission when the march is over. They were a little more vehement in defense of their project—it was
real to them whether or not they delivered the multitudes. They aren’t agitating, they’re asking—asking everyone who sees them to
think and to act. They have signs for everything—ban the bomb, civil rights, United Nations support, equality or bust—placards for
all the current radical pressure projects. On the Morrison Room stage their dogmatic evangelism probably sullied their impression on a
not-too-impressionable crowd. In person, their zeal didn’t diminish but the answers weren’t as polished. They admitted to internal differences within
their train. They were quietly human in the fraternity houses when they came for meals, and their gratitude was not
blemished by self-righteousness. One of them played a fair banjo; another sang union songs and Peace-oriented ballads.

The Committee For Nonviolent Action, sponsors of the march, unwaveringly demand unilateral disarmament, reinstatement of Castro’s Cuba in the OAS,
and a non-cooperation policy with the military by citizens of all nations. But they’re not just talking about their dreams,
practical or not. “We don’t care about our image,” they explain, “and we'll resist non-violently even in death for defense
of freedom.” The Charlotte papers have remained silent, and publicity for their dramatic action has apparently not been forthcoming. But
they don’t seem to care. They'll talk to Americans, Cubans, Russians, and anyone who will listen to their deep-end demands.
Give them credit, then, for determination. And give Davidson credit for listening.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Supports Wallace To The End

Ed. note—In answer to a multitude of inquiries, Rick von Unwerth is from Augusta, Ga.

Dear Editor:

Rick von Unwerth has charged that George Wallace's conduct in trying to prevent integration at Birmingham was de-

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

J. G. Martin Upholds National Review

Dear Editor:

From all the tumult and recrimination over the current issue of the National Review, one might conclude that Davidson would
be better off had the survey of Student Beliefs chosen Furman or P.C. or Wake Forest as its Protestant-affiliated college.
Then we could simply ignore the whole thing. It can still be dismissed if one accepts the Patterson Hypothesis* that
it is all one dark subversive plot to overthrow the liberal faculties in a few strategically chosen colleges, ours included.
What a dent that would make!

Assuming Dr. Patterson was sincere, in spite of that business about lying with statistics (which is a revealing bit of
candidness for an economist), his charge of malicious intent is not consistent with the fact that all the data from
all twelve colleges on all 82 questions (105 actually) are included. For most of the colleges (Davidson included) many of
the data are complimentary from the conservative viewpoint, just as for most of them (Davidson again included) there are many
data which should encourage liberal confidence and optimism. There are indeed many data which reaffirm what many would have assumed
to be true at Davidson anyway. This was published for all to read and draw their own conclusions—hardly the practice
of subversive organizations. Isn't it rather a practice that would be worthy of any journal, Right or Left, no less
one which is admittedly “A Journal of Fact and Opinion”?

There was an unfortunate ambiguity in the survey’s questions about reaction against religion, which led to the superficial conclusion about
the local courses in religion having a damaging effect on students’ faith. This latter point would not have seemed as
important to the HarvardCRIMSON in originally preparing the questionnaire, as Dr. Polley* and Mr. Ferris* have correctly pointed out, other
questions indicate that the “reaction” can be explained as a maturation. The 14 per cent (7 of the students polled)
who rejected their earlier religious tradition is (Continued On Page Four)

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Simpson: Word-Eaters Busy On Pupil ‘Apathy’

Dear Editor:

Those who've been proclaiming Davidson students the most apathetic creatures since Nero fiddled while Rome burned have had to do
some word-eating since last Thursday night. It’s possible that some of us think it's unsophisticated to get enthusiastic about anything,
or that we're daily exposed to so much stimulation that it takes a special occasion to produce a visible change.
At any rate, when the Negro Revolution, the Non-violence marchers, and the Cuban anti-Castroites visited campus, there were visible signs
that many were doing much in the way of serious thinking. But in this general clamor, one voice was strangely
still—the voice of the faculty. This is not to accuse the professors of being apathetic; Davidson professors are noted for
their workloads, and there are only 24 hours in each day. However, it seems unfortunate that more were not present
(and that those who were remained largely quiet) at the two discussions, to lend their backgrounds to the questions being
raised: the history department in regard to the fates of past non-violent movements; economic, the causes and effects in Cuba
and Birmingham; religion, the Christian aspect of the non-violent and Negro movements; psychology, the inherent mental possibilities of man’s accepting
complete integration and non-violence as ways of life; military, the possible consequences of unilateral disarmament; philosophy, almost everything. Some professors
may feel that the students are not interested in what they have to say outside of class; that they would
put a “quietus” on discussion if they spoke out. But these were perfect opportunities for us to “get our money's
worth” out of our faculty by hearing their questions and comments. And we needed their larger store of information. It
is unfortunate that those two opportunities have been missed; but all is not lost. Many have suggested inviting faculty members
from the various departments and the two campuses (e.g. Lester, Polley, Rhodes, (Continued On Page Four)

policies or attitudes of NSA to the student body, or to record any impact that NSA has made on Davidson.
It seems to me that each year the students have less and less to say about the policies of the
College. It appears reasonable that the students should have some voice in the codification of policy, at least in the
area of student government. A logical place to start is with the NSA, an organization that few students know anything
about, which is here without the consent or request of the students, and which nevertheless purports to represent their opinions.
(See adjoining box for a collection of NSA stands on political issues.)

First of all, only 368 of the more than 2,000 institutions of higher learning in the United States are members
of the NSA; few delegates from these member schools (usually about 500 attend the annual ten-day meeting on a Midwestern
campus) are chosen in college-wide elections, the rest are selected by the student government. Davidson sent only one delegate to
the 1963 Congress, he was not elected, probably less than a handful knew he was even going, fewer than that
knew anything about NSA at all, and even fewer, maybe none, had any recommendations to send along for consideration. This
is true, and really nobody disputes it: NSA is a confederation of student governments, not of individual students. The people
who go to the Congresses, where NSA policy is formed, are not representative of their student bodies. The NSA, then,
is brought under question from two points: its relevance at Davidson and its prerogative to assert “representative student opinion.” It
seems obvious, first, that the NSA has failed to significantly contribute anything to Davidson. Second, an examination of the attitudes
and of the policies of the NSA will go a long way in pointing out the extent of agreement between
the Davidson student and the NSA. One can say, with little fear of successful contradiction, that the NSA is a
controversial organization, dabbling with radical social and political philosophies, and hardly representative of student opinion at Davidson College. Further, it
has failed to produce any results which are tangible and significant enough to warrant the endorsement of Davidson. Neither do
I believe that this is a typical reaction of provincialism. On the basis that: (A) the NSA has had no
impact on the Davidson campus in the last three years; (B) no effort has been made during this time to
acquaint students with the NSA and its policies; (C) the students have had no voice in the retention of such
membership, or in the selection of a delegate to the Congress which purports to be the voice of their opinions;
(D) the policies of NSA do not generally conform to the opinion of most Davidson students, it seems logical to
call for a referendum vote to consider the continued affiliation of Davidson with the NSA.

3. The NSA opposes any loyalty oath (political or otherwise) for students receiving federal loans for education.
4. The NSA denounces any measures of the United States to achieve nuclear superiority.
5. The NSA criticizes United States foreign aid to Spain, Portugal, Republic of South Africa, Nicaragua, Haiti, Peru, Paraguay, Guatemala
and Argentina, but does not mention aid to Yugoslavia and Poland.
6. The NSA regrets the absence of contact with the All China Student Federation, the Chinese Communist Student Union.
7. The NSA defends the Japanese student riots against former President Eisenhower.
8. The NSA opposes the Cunningham Amendment which prohibits the distribution of Communist propaganda through the United States mail.
9. The NSA opposes the sections of the McCarran Act (Internal Security Act) which: (a) prohibit from entry into this
country those persons who at any time have lent their support to a totalitarian government, who have held membership in
such an organization, and who have subscribed to the political doctrines of such a government; (b) require members of a
Communist front, Communist action, or Communist infiltrated organization to register with the Attorney General.
10. NSA praises Fidel Castro’s educational reforms and, at the same time, condemns Francisco Franco for student persecution.
11. NSA protests the discharge of Communist teachers.

Letter To A Letter

Dear “Samuel Johnson,”

Having been a subscriber to THE DAVIDSONIAN for the past five years I can say without reservation that the worst
bit of “garbage” I have read so far is your letter to the Editor. Your stroke of genius is that
you “have a very fine" son—or maybe it was a miracle!

Vita E. Pepper

Is it deplorable, but I ask, is it deplorable for one to stand up for what he believes is right?
History shows many other great men who have stood up for what they believed to be right, despite powerful opposition.
Had such men not stood up, we would never have had the Protestant Reformation or the American Revolution. George Wallace
and the other segregationists know that “separate but equal” schools are in the best interests of both races and meet
the Constitutional requirement of providing equal protection under the law—if the Fourteenth Amendment really were legally ratified. Most anthropologists whose
minds have not been clouded with equalitarian assumptions agree that there are basic differences among the races which are deeper
than physical features. The environmental conditions which are said to have caused physical differences to evolve among the races could
just as easily have caused mental differences to evolve. Because these mental differences are known to exist, the education of
either a white person or Negro is enhanced when he studies at a school with others of his race. To
improve the condition of Negroes is a just cause, but the manner in which integrationists pursue their cause endangers the
level of educational institutions, the rights of states, and the legal property rights of people. If other “reform groups” followed
this course, the Constitution would become little more than an organizational outline for the federal government; the principle of limited
government would no longer apply. Then we might all be equal—equally unfree.

Don McKinnon

Western Doctor Cuts von Unwerth

Dear Editor:

The article (Oct. 4) by Rick von Unwerth attacking the actions of Governor Wallace seemed to me to be very
radical and “explosive” coming from an institution such as Davidson. However, I realize that such individuals as the writer is
(sic) in a very minority group and usually express themselves way out of proportion to their number. This has been
the experience in the northern colleges because this type of individual usually likes to be expressive similar to the “soapbox”
orators in Hyde Park. I am still happy that I saw fit to send my boy, at an increased expense,
so far away from home in order to get away from similar associates in the northern colleges. Perhaps, if one
knew more concerning the writer’s history and background, this vicious type of expression might be explained. I hope that your
staff will see fit to publish more articles typical of Davidson College.

Dr. F. D. Hurd

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF David Stitt
BUSINESS MANAGER Rick Finch
Associate Editors Tim Kimrey
News Editor Jim Downey
Bill Ruth
Photography Editor Joe McCutchen
Jeff Wampler
Photographers Sam Smith
Romir Chatterjee
Managing Editors Charles Dibble
Charles Ramberg
Cartoonists Dan Adams
Assistant Editor Rick von Unwerth
Johnny Wright
Sports Editor Rick Lowery
Rufus Hallmark
Feature Editor Tom Loflin
Assistant Bus. Manager Charlie Smith
Assignments Editor John Todd
Advertising Manager Irvine Welling
Assistant Sports Editor Bob Strauser
Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane

Contributors This Week: Joe Davis, Bill Aitken, Charles Edward, Harry Carr, Dick Hicks, Britt Snider, Cliff Kirkpatrick, Bill Garrard, Ron
Snow, Bob Adams, Fred Gordon, John Ouzts, Jim Bulla, David Powell and Jim Beasley.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
