Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Apathy? (No)

We cannot help thinking we've gotten a new slant lately on the vaunted “student body apathy” which is evermore being
referred to by the chronic moaners on campus. Then last night Paul Simpson and the “Open End” committee went to
the trouble to procure an unusually good film presenting the views of three outstanding American Negro leaders of the current
civil rights movement. Not only that, but the committee invited a very articulate speaker out from Charlotte for a questioning
period after the film. We weren't too surprised that an overflow crowd jammed the Union ballroom to see a free
flick, but when the film was over, the mass exodus we were halfway looking for just did not materialize. Students
stayed, students asked all kinds of questions, and when Dr. Polley officially ended the questioning period, so many people crowded
around Dr. Hawkins that everyone was finally asked to sit down again so the questioning could continue. And continue it
did, until 1:30 a.m. That’s “apathy?”

Reviewing The ‘Review’

Three articles on this page and a news story on the front page concern themselves with the results of a
poll recently printed in the National Review. While we aren't about to discount the entire poll, that seven per cent
of the student body at Davidson is a representative proportion strikes us as a rather dubious assumption. For example, the
preface to the poll states that “... if a college exceeded its quota (seven per cent return) at any time,
the excess responses were scientifically eliminated. At some colleges, the interest in the poll was so great that as many
as two-thirds of the responses had to be thrown out...” How one goes about “scientifically” discarding something is not readily
apparent. However, some statements, such as, “despite its Presbyterian affiliation, then, Davidson scarcely appears to be conducive to retention of
religious faith” strikes an alarmingly familiar note. Many students and occasionally faculty members have been saying just that for many
years, often in this newspaper. Numerous other exceptions could be taken to the percentages recorded in the National Review, and
particularly to the Review interpretation of the results. But the poll itself could be extremely informative if it were to
be administered to some 60 per cent of the Davidson student body, and if the results were to be interpreted
as objectively as possible by a team of professors. And if not that poll, then why not one drawn up
by the professors themselves? We understand one professor has already done some work in this direction, and we definitely feel
that such a poll would be beneficial as no one really has much of an idea what anybody else around
here thinks anyway.

What About Us?

For two or three years now we have had to sit through the Student Council assembly on NSA and listen
to the latest delegate to the NSA convention run through an elaborate defense of Davidson's membership in that organization. The
main line of argument used by the Council runs like this: Davidson is a basically conservative school that needs more
contact with other (liberal) points of view; the NSA is a basically liberal organization; therefore, our membership in NSA is
warranted because of the many benefits to be gained from this contact with ideas not too prevalent in this area.
Fine, we applaud this argument. But isn’t something missing? Like, for instance, the new ideas? Did the chapel speaker last
Tuesday read any of the recommendations made by the NSA? Has the Student Council ever tried to outline some NSA
stands on issues to the student body either in chapel or in forums? What we're trying to say is that
Tuesday chapel could have been put to much better use. We are glad that this year’s NSA delegate from Davidson
had a nice time at the NSA convention, and that he was confronted with lots of nice new ideas. But
what about us?

The Unheralded Trumpet

One last observation we want to mention, and it could only come under the heading of Things It’s a Crying
Shame Nobody Knows About. Last Monday afternoon we stumbled onto one of the finest individual performances we've heard in our
four years here. Dr. Grier Williams played a trumpet concert in the College Church that kept us literally spellbound for
over an hour. The performance was flawlessly professional, and our only regret was that more people could not have enjoyed
it. We understand the concert was one of a monthly series to occur on Monday afternoons, and that it will
feature outstanding student and faculty musicians. An extremely worthwhile program.

Professors National Survey Incorrectly Concludes Students Drop Religious Beliefs

BY MAX E. POLLEY
Associate Professor of Bible

Dear Editor:

This past week Davidson received national recognition of their disbelief. This is how the Charlotte Observer interpreted the statistics. But
before we eliminate the Bible Department, sever our church affiliation, and become a secular institution in order to protect our
religious faith, let us examine the accuracy of these conclusions. I do not propose to challenge the statistics reported by
the survey, although I am still looking for those Davidson students concentrating on nursing. Let us, however, throw caution to
the wind and assume the statistics are accurate. What do they tell us about the students’ religious beliefs? Of the
sample, 82% have reacted partially or wholly against their religious tradition. Of this 82%, 56% reacted while in college. Of
this 56%, 78% (or 18 students who were polled) reported that the change occurred because of courses dealing with religion.
When asked, however, if they wholly reject the religious tradition in which they were raised, only 14% (or seven students
in the sample) answered in the affirmative, while 54% said they partially agree with the religious tradition in which they
were raised but have important reservations. Is it fair to refer to “important reservations” as an “anti-religious reaction”? If the
student body is “anti-religious,” it is strange that 52% taking the poll objected to marrying an atheist or agnostic. Is
it not more likely that the student has been called to think critically about his faith and is searching for
more mature answers to religious questions? The only way to remain “religious” in the terms of the survey is to
cease growing intellectually and spiritually. Any reaction against traditional beliefs, regardless of what they are, is regarded as “anti-religious.” One
might also object to the wording of some of the theological questions included in the poll. The students were asked
if they believed in immortality of the soul, 62% accepted this belief, while 22% rejected it. Certain students undoubtedly rejected
the belief because they have no concept of life beyond the grave. But other students, some of whom discussed the
question with me last year, told me they answered in the negative because they believed in resurrection of the body
rather than immortality of the soul. Does the 22% represent a liberal...

Biased NR Threatens Academic Freedom

BY E. F. PATTERSON
Associate Prof. of Economics

On the basis of past experience in analyzing data secured in the manner used by the Educational Reviewer it is
possible to predict that one could make a rather thorough-going refutation of most of the general conclusions which were drawn
from the data, but the intellectual benefit and the scientific worth likely to be derived would hardly merit the time
and effort required. If one is interested in making this analysis for counter-propaganda purposes (propaganda being the major purpose of
the article), and this is the only ground on which expending the time and effort could be justified—this purpose is
worthy of consideration, though—, he would be advised first to...Read Darrel Huff's "How To Lie With Statistics," and second, to
keep constantly in mind Disraeli's apothegm: "There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics." Since this study
obviously is not motivated by an interest in pure science and is not a very significant contribution to the body
of scientific thought, one wonders just what lies behind it. Perhaps a clue can be secured from the following definition
of statistics: "The art of drawing a crooked line from an unproved assumption to a foregone conclusion." It would seem
that the conclusion that college faculties exert a "liberalizing" influence, and therefore students become relatively more liberal while in college,
was guaranteed beforehand by the schools selected for the study. Faculties, especially those in the social sciences and humanities, are
usually more "liberal" (as defined by Educational Reviewers) than the average student, but in eight of the twelve schools included
in the study, the faculties are likely to be even more "liberal" than average.

One wonders why this bias was introduced. The often-reiterated contention of Kirk, Buckley, and other members of the Radical Right
intelligentsia is that in spite of what they claim has been a monopoly by the "liberals" (anyone to the left
of Herbert Hoover) on American college faculties, the students have rejected the "false" doctrines of these misguided and credulous professors
and conservatism is presently rampant on the campuses. (When Kirk was on the Davidson campus last year, he used the
large attendance at his chapel talk as proof of the widespread acceptance of conservatism, which is about par for the
non sequitur course usually played by Kirk, Buckley, et al.) Why would they want to dig up data which apparently
refutes their earlier conclusion, which, one presumes, was based on a thorough and objective study of the situation? One answer
is that Kirk, et al. are perfectly aware that alumni and Boards of Trustees are considerably more conservative than their
sons and daughters in college. (This gives rise to the old-grad cliché—"if my son isn’t a socialist at 18, he
is a damn fool; if he isn’t a Republican at 24, he is a damn fool"—which is supposed to reflect
what happened to the old-grad. And it does, except the old-grad wasn't a socialist at 18.) Kirk also knows that
alumni and state legislators and Boards of Trustees are able to bring and have brought pressure on college administrators to
persuade them to discourage the "liberal" tendencies on college campuses. A perusal of the American Association of University Professors Bulletin
will reveal accounts of a substantial number of actual cases, and it is well known that only the most flagrant
examples get into the Bulletin. It is certain that such pressures, which undoubtedly exist in the colleges included in the
study, will be increased as a result of the National Review article. One hopes that the respective college administrations will
continue to resist, even more strongly and successfully, these attempts to interfere with academic freedom.

The other question which disturbed me dealt with the resurrection of Jesus. This question implies that to believe Christ was
raised from the dead one must believe "a camera placed outside the tomb" could have taken a picture of the
Risen Lord. The question ignores completely the place of faith in religious belief. Does one have to be naive in
order to be religious? Reed College students are to be commended for not answering this question. The survey concludes that
only 20% of the Davidson students believe in the resurrection. The Charlotte Observer passed the information along without interpretation. I
should hope the students’ response reveals a degree of theological development ignored by those who made out the poll. Frankly,
I have serious doubts about the statistics found in the poll. But even if they are correct, I do not
believe the results on the religious questions have been interpreted correctly. I doubt seriously that they give us an accurate
picture of religious faith on the Davidson campus.

Through an article in the National Review, the National Review included Davidson in a poll conducted among colleges such as
Sarah Lawrence, Stanford, Howard, and Reed, to determine the political and religious attitudes of American college students. The overall conclusion
was that most students (excepting those in Catholic schools) become more liberal in their political and religious views while in
college. Davidson was ranked as politically conservative compared to most of the other schools. The other and most interesting part
of the poll for Davidsonians concerned the change in traditional religious beliefs. Eighty-two percent of the students polled at Davidson
have reacted against their traditional beliefs. This change occurred during their first two years of college and was due to
"courses dealing with religion" and "increased thinking about religion and religious problems." The reaction of Russell Kirk and his associates
who conducted the poll was that "Despite its Presbyterian affiliation, then, Davidson scarcely appears to be conducive to retention of
religious faith." They further lamented that at "a Christian-affiliated school located squarely in Christian-oriented North Carolina less than twenty-one percent
of the students believe in the resurrection."

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Irate Parent Poison Pens Paper, Cuts Subscription

Dear Editor:

Your invitation to "keep in close contact with life at Davidson—by reading THE DAVIDSONIAN" is declined with thanks. If you
brilliant young men who call yourselves "editors" could see yourselves as others see you, you would not have the nerve
to ask parents or alumni to pay to read such garbage. As a parent of a very fine young man
attending Davidson, I refuse to believe that the news (?) articles or editorials correctly portray the true story of life
at Davidson or any college. In your immature bleating to get attention from the school authorities and adoration from your
fellow travelers, you reveal only that which is crude, vulgar, biased, childish, rude, and pointless. So, if you must, stick
to your lust, your campaign for liquor, your "Goodykoontz," your defiance for authority, your disrespect for character and knowledge, your
prattle of an idiot—but without the assistance of my $3 per year, or smug satisfaction of making this old fogie's
blood boil. Keep your poison pen poised—hold on to all copies of your masterpiece, and read them again after 10
or 20 or 30 years. Then see what a stupid jackass you were—Enough—have fun without me.

AND THESE BOYS ARE OUR FOREIGN STUDENTS

Other cries that religion is dying at Davidson; that our professors are leading us from the flock. Our answer to
these cries is that they are partly right. The spoon-fed, unquestioning attitudes of fundamentalism are dying and will continue to
die here as long as the freedom to question remains on our campus. No intelligent being can accept a god
who is strapped into man-made concepts such as the trinity, bodily resurrection, and predestination. This is a god who has
been made into an idol by labels man has pasted on him. We at Davidson are certainly not the first
to question the basics of our traditional beliefs. When Nietzsche declared one hundred years ago that "God is dead," he
meant this idolatrous god which our society has created—the god of the creeds which we mumble each Sunday. That this
idolatrous god and his religion are being destroyed at Davidson is a sign of health within our community. Thus, in
contrast to the depressing comments of Mr. Kirk about our school, I feel his poll reflects the strength of our
religious education, not its weakness. Christianity entered the world as a rebellion against traditional beliefs and can only continue to
be relevant as long as it refuses to accept the stifling dogma man imposes on religion.

Bill Ferris

van den Berg

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF David Stitt

BUSINESS MANAGER Rick Finch

Associate Editors Tim Kimrey, Jim Downey, Bill Ruth, Jeff Wampler

Photography Editor Joe McCutchen

Photographers Sam Smith, Charles Rambo

Managing Editors Charles Dibble, Romir Chatterjee

Assistant Managing Editor Rick von Unwerth

Sports Editor Rick Lowery

Assistant Sports Editor Bob Strauser

Assistant Business Manager Charlie Smith

Feature Editor Tom Loftin

Advertising Manager Irvine Welling

Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane

Cartoonists Dan Adams, Johnny Wright

Contributors This Week: George Fain, Tom Anderson, David Coffey, Bill Aitken, Tom Peaden, Cliff Kirkpatrick, Charles Edwards, Bob Meek, Bill
Norfleet, Harry Carr, John Higgins, Bill Hufford, Eric Nichols, David Powell, and Jim Beasley.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

The Davidsonian Box 218 Davidson, N. C.
