PAGE FOUR

AGS ALPHAS ORGANIZE Gnome Gnappers Gnab Gnomes

BY TOM LOFLIN

About eight minutes earlier than the proclaimed time of Darkness drifted in to drench the campus from the eight o’clock. And the crowd was small. Only about five east. A strange procession backed by weird beats on a people witnessed the delivery from the womb Monday trash can emerged from Duke Dormitory. It was early, night of the first chapter of AGS in the United States.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Jackson
Bailey
Cumming, Miss
Embry
Johnston
Lammers

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1963

Student Council Suggests An Exam ‘Reading Period’

BY JOHN TODD

The Student Council has recommended to the academic scheduling committee of the faculty that a one or Marrotte Minter Pierce AGS stands for the Anti-surprise the onlookers as black-hunts sex to relieve himself on his flashlight announcing his robed figures began to chant “Go home, Gnome!” and “Protect your homes, stamp out Gnomes!” A figure in white, bound with adhesive tape, was carried to the front of East Dormitory. He was a Gnome. He was to be burned. Most of the freshman quaked in East, visibly frightened by the black robes of death. Only a few ventured out into the night to see a sight never before beheld on the Davidson campus. Marching to the mystic beat of Hill Wellford’s musical can of trash, the AGS moved in front of Belk, carrying Chub Covington toward his death. The upperclassmen began to form a crowd. A dignified silence was discharged by the group into the darkness as a member of the AGS court explained the society’s official definition of a-Gnome. He is defined to be “A subterranean, misshapen creature who hoards his earthly possessions.”

National Review (Continued From Page One)

Sixty-six per cent of the Davidson students supported the right-to-work laws while only eight per cent expressed opposition. Only two per cent of the local men recorded themselves as being “somewhat in favor” of full socialization of all industries while no Davidsonian stated that he was “definitely in favor” of full socialization of all industries. Seventy-eight per cent stated they were definitely opposed while another 14 per cent asserted that they were “somewhat opposed.” Twenty-six per cent said “yes” to “socialization of only basic industries (steel, railroads, etc.)” but still opposition remained. Sixty per cent came out for federal aid to public secondary schools by sizeable margins; support was also granted to federal aid to private colleges and universities with only Indiana failing to provide a majority’s support. Although 80 per cent opposed socialization of the medical profession, 44 per cent granted approval to a national health insurance plan.

The black-robed judges explained the purpose of their campaign to wipe out Gnomes, “By destroying these unoriginal creatures, we will be aiding creativity at Davidson. The AGS stands for creativity.” The AGS Court, willing to be a completely fair organization and open to all opinions, allowed Covington to speak before they were scheduled to burn him. “The very smallness of your crowd indicates where the support of the campus lies!” he orated. But, alas, the crowd was not willing to be fair. The chant of “Go home, Gnome!” was taken up. This prompted a spectator from Watts to shout down into the infuriated crowd, “Better Gnome than home!” Then matches—that is, cigarette lighters—were brought out. It appeared as if Covington would become a torch martyr. But a proven hero came to the rescue, the single beam of Cop Linker’s flashlight announcing his saving arrival. Gnome-haters surrounded the few Gnomes present who were screaming the virtues that are embedded in their very name: “Goodness versus indifference; Nobleness versus inequity; Omnipotence versus submissiveness; Masterful versus weakness; and Esthetic versus vulgar.” Linker replied bravely, “I better stand uncommitted.” And so the AGS rally ended, almost quietly, except for the noise and confusion of the rally, seven men immediately retreated to their headquarters in Duke to make plots for future activities.

First, the seven Gnome executioners, Larry Baucom, Hill Wellford, Terry Holland, George Little, Jocko Williams, Joe Gamble, and Kent Tucker announced that officially that night, Oct. 7, 1963, the Alpha Chapter of AGS was born. “We would like to see other schools adopt a chapter,” they stated. “Any interested school can drop us a card.” The seven explained that they had no officers in AGS, since it was a truly democratic society in which all were equal. Then they proceeded to elect officials for the Gnomes because “we don’t think they’re capable of electing themselves.” Tri-Gnomic Grand-Lizards are, by unanimous decision, Mike “Dino” Nemir, I. B. “Chub” Covington, and Britt “Buggs” Smith. Also elected without dissent by the seven are the following: Fifth Year Representative, Toad-Boy Lane; Senior Representative, Fat-Dog Price; Junior Representative, Banana Beasley; Sophomore Representative, Fats McQueen; and Head Faculty Representative, Capt. Pierce (AGS does not think he deserves the rank of Major). The society refrained from branding any freshmen as Gnomes. “It is the hope of the AGS to deliver the Freshman Class from Gnomism,” said Little. The society also gave an official definition of the type of girls Gnomes dated on weekends. They are called Gnomeses and are “girls that dress alike and are very dull on weekends, like Queens girls.”

The AGS announced that at 9 p.m. next Tuesday, they would hold a meeting in 216 Duke for all interested people, especially freshmen. “We want to teach the freshmen how to recognize Gnomes so that they can throw acorns at them every time they see one on campus.” To facilitate the recognition of Gnomes, the AGS made public their secret list of bugs, called by the Grand-Lizards “worker Gnomes.”

Already making plans for the Midwinters Dance Weekend, the Interfraternity Council voted Monday to schedule the activities for Feb. 7. This is a change in the originally proposed date because of a conflict with the Duke-Davidson basketball game in Durham. In connection with the type of entertainment program for Midwinters, the IFC is taking a poll of individual fraternity members to determine what is preferred. It has been suggested that an informal dance be held in the basement of Chambers Building after an IFC concert. When asked why Chambers is being considered, IFC President Haynes Kelly replied that the acoustics are better there than in Johnston Gymnasium. “The basement of Chambers is smaller,” he said, “and the atmosphere is better. A crowd draws more people.” At present the IFC plans to take no action on the alleged monopoly of combos and after-dance facilities held by Ted Hall. The IFC, in other business at their weekly meeting, decided that a Homecoming Queen will be crowned during the halftime ceremonies of the Davidson-Presbyterian game Oct. 26. She will receive an engraved trophy and a dozen red roses. Entries from each fraternity and one from Lingle Manor will be judged by Dr. Thomas Clark, Bill Bondurant, and Dr. MacCormac. Other Homecoming events include a concert by the Chad Mitchell Trio and a student-alumni barbecue in the center of Patterson Fraternity Court on Saturday before the game. Kelly estimated an attendance of about a thousand alumni at the joint gathering. The IFC had voted 8-4 to sanction the event and pointed out the dis- senting fraternities need not participate. The IFC voted also to leave the problem of “bull pledges” in the hands of the faculty. At the present time, the college does not recognize as fraternity members those students who had formerly pledged a fraternity but have failed to make the required C average during one of the two semesters he is a pledge.

Biblical Professor Vespers Speaker

The speaker for vespers this Sunday night is Dr. Dietrich Ritschl, professor of systematic theology and Christian ethics at Davidson and visiting professor of systematic theology and Christian ethics at Pittsburgh Seminary. Born in Switzerland, Dr. Ritschl studied at Tubingen, Germany, and at Basel.Days he was an assistant minister in his native country and later spent six years as a minister in Edinburgh. Last year he left a position at Austin Presbyterian Seminary in Texas to become professor of Biblical interpretation at Pittsburgh. When Dr. Ritschl left the pastorate for the teaching ministry, he spent some time studying and preaching. Because of his theological background and practical experience, he was more interested in content than technique. His trips to countries on the other side of the Iron Curtain have strengthened his concern for Biblical preaching. Dr. Ritschl has published many articles and books in systematic and practical theology.

The vesper speaker for Sunday is a professor of Biblical interpretation at the University of Pittsburgh. The plan, if approved, would not go into effect until the 1964-65 school year, however. The schedule for this year cannot be changed. The student body was about evenly divided on the question of holidays between semesters. Some favored Saturday-Sunday-Monday as holidays, and just about the same number favored the present system of Sunday-Monday-Tuesday. In another query concerning next year's schedule, the poll found mostly negative opinion on starting school on or before Labor Day. Most of the complaints were due to jobs, vacations, and other personal plans that would prevent many students from returning before Labor Day. The problem of scheduling Freshman Camp before Labor Day was also brought up. In another question addressed to the freshmen who attended the pre-orientation camp, approximately 60 percent said they would still have gone to the camp even if it were held before Labor Day. The calendar itself is the big problem in the schedule since 1964 is a leap year.

In other matters at its regular meeting, the council approved final plans for the election of the editor of next year’s Wildcat Handbook. The election will be held after chapel on Monday. Freshmen will not be allowed to vote. Spratt told the council that the idea for a summer reading program was still being investigated; however, the council has not yet discussed the matter in a regular meeting.

Debating Season Opens At Tourney

The debating season will go into “full-swing” this weekend with the annual Davidson College Debate Tournament. The Davidson team will be in competition with teams from 10 other schools. The teams entered are Davidson, Carson-Newman, Duke University, Gardner-Webb, Lynchburg, Randolph-Macon, University of South Carolina, University of North Carolina, Washington and Lee, Western Carolina, and Wingate College. The tournament will consist of five rounds which began at 3 p.m. this afternoon. There will be three rounds today and two tomorrow morning. They will be conducted in the educational portion of the College Church, and students are invited to attend if they enter before the beginning of each round. A banquet was held in the Morrison Room of the Union tonight for the debaters. Tomorrow an awards assembly will be held in Hodson Hall at 11:30 a.m. Davidson has intentionally disqualified itself from the three team trophies to be presented but will be vying for the three individual trophies. The proposition to be debated is the national query, “Resolved that the Federal Government should guarantee an opportunity for higher education to all qualified high school graduates.” Davidson students debating or assisting in administrative duties connected with the tournament are: Bill Brown, Bill Rule, Woody Cleveland, Don Gillespie, Don Carroll, Jim Hill, Skip Jones, Conrad Shumadine, Stan Cameron, Tom Poston, Bob Meek, Norman Cole, Ben Reeves, Walt Drake, and Dave Hardeman. Alumni Secretary Bill Bondurant and Dr. Tom Clark will serve as judges, and Mrs. Grace Lilly will be the director of the tournament.

The Bell Telephone Companies Salute: Oliver Porter, Jr.

“Will my first assignment really be a challenge?” is a question that haunts many young engineers. An affirmative answer to Oliver Porter, Jr. (B.S.C.E., 1969), when he reported to Southern Bell's Greenville, S.C., office in July 1962. A week hadn’t passed when Oliver became a full-fledged practicing member of the District Engineering group. In addition to design duties, Oliver was immediately put to work directly serving customers—handling requests for service or facility rearrangements, advising architects, and acquiring public and private right-of-way. Oliver found his challenge quickly, and at the same time impressed Southern Bell with his technical engineering proficiency and ability to represent the company. Oliver Porter, like many young engineers, is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.

Year Abroad (Continued From Front Page)

The third idea is that a student would receive no grades on any work, but that the professor-counselor with the group would make periodic checks to make sure a student was doing acceptable work. The student would then receive a grade of “passed” or “failed” on such work. For all courses passed, he would receive one quality point per hour at Davidson, but that would not count on his scholastic average. The proposed plan lists several advantages in Davidson's having its own program: “Students are ‘immersed’ in foreign situations, studying and living as students in that university; American relationship is only in one conference each week with the Davidson professor and in meeting of seminar,” the plan states. “The weekly conferences with the Davidson professor-in-residence will assure better control and evaluation of the student's work. “The foreign language professors of Davidson will continue their own education and revitalize their language experience periodically by a year’s residence in the foreign country.” Embry pointed out that language professors would rotate in traveling with groups. Due to the interest in both French and German, programs would be carried on in both countries at the same time. No sites abroad for study have yet been selected, although the committee has several in mind. Embry said that both the French and German departments would welcome any student suggestions as to how the proposed plan could be improved. He urged all interested students to put their names on the list of prospects for study abroad. “The more we have signed up, the greater proof we will have that the program is worthwhile,” he said. Embry said that Davidson had no intention of admitting other schools to its program. “We want to keep the same high quality of work required at Davidson,” he explained, “Yet we don't want the program to be a piece of Davidson in France or Germany; that is why we are planning as little control over students as possible.”

Davidson strongly opposed the recognition of Red China and the admission of it to the United Nations: only 24 percent supported the moves while 66 percent expressed opposition. The Davidson student frowned upon foreign aid in his responses. Fifty-six percent oppose retention of American economic and non-military technical aid to other countries at about the present level while 78 percent oppose any marked increase. The campus community is deadlocked on the question of a marked reduction in foreign aid: 46 percent take definite stands on each side of the issue.

Colleges participating in the survey of political and religious attitudes were Sarah Lawrence, Williams, Yale, Marquette, Boston University, Indiana, South Carolina, Howard, Reed, Brandeis, Stanford, and Davidson.

AGS-elected leaders, the following are judged to be Gnomes: Dale Goal, Jr., Baby-Toad Barron, Jim “Quickie” Lewis, F. Tuck Jones, Embry Atkins, Emeritus Whitaker, Don “Cassius Clay” Half (member in absentia), Tika Jernigan, Fatback Long, Books Pridgen, D. D. T. Van Huss, Lips Littrell, Bill “Dumpy” Davis, Miser Stotts, Steve “Freckles” Robinson, Scuba Rankin, Killer Killebrew, Tricky-Dick Forrester, Dickie Booth, Organ Quinn, Flash Lafferty, Schizo Freeny, Diamond Lyman Dillon, Dum-Dum Cummings, and Fat Sid. In addition to head man “Capt.” Pierce, there are eight faculty advisers: Bugs Daggy, Happy Mole Ostwalt, Mumbles Armstrong, P-Bear, Morris, Machi, Mebane, Oscar Gantt, As Such Williams.

Embry said that Davidson had no intention of admitting other schools to its program. “We want to keep the same high quality of work required at Davidson,” he explained, “Yet we don't want the program to be a piece of Davidson in France or Germany; that is why we are planning as little control over students as possible.”

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

STUDENT CERTIFICATE

Comprehensive health protection for college and trade school students under 24 years of age and in good health. Individual or Family Plan. For details mail coupon to HOSPITAL CARE ASSOCIATION DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA