FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1933 PAGE THREE

Side Lights BY RICK LOWERY Davidsonian Sports Editor

FOOTBALL’S BACK...

The sun finally was out and the game began at two o'clock. It was the first typical football day at
Davidson this year. A little warm but still a typical football day. Then again, it wasn't a typical day for
VMI nor for Davidson. VMI, the pre-season favorite to win the Southern Conference title, had been beaten the week before
by Iowa State. The Keydets had outgained a team which is definitely considered a major college power. And Davidson was
probably as far down emotionally and physically as a Davidson team has been in the past few years. When VMI
took the field there was something about the gold helmets and snappy pre-game drills that made them look like a
football team that expects to win. They didn't. The game’s over and everything has been hashed and re-hashed. If you
missed the action, then you missed a great effort by a football team which made too many mistakes to win
but would not let themselves be beaten.

No one man stood out for Davidson Saturday. It was such names as Bruce Dalton, Tom Simmons, Steve Smith, and
others who, although they have seen little action previously this year, filled in more than adequately for some of the
injured ‘Cats. Another couple of names have to be mentioned. David Sprinkle intercepted one pass, broke up several more, and
time after time came up from his corner spot to stop ball carriers for no gain. Pat Fisher played his
usual steady un-noticed game at fullback, but it was on defense Saturday that he shone, time after time wiping out
the interference on the power sweeps. There were other defensive standouts as well as offensive notables. And perhaps most important
of them all was Jim Terry who personally provided four of Davidson’s points with his toe.

CONGRATULATIONS

The entire football team.

ON THE MOVE

Goalie Lyman Dillon and his fullbacks threw a shutout at big bad Carolina Wednesday. The line provided three goals as
the soccer team continued its winning ways. Perhaps it is too early to begin thinking of national recognition, but right
now it appears that Davidson is as strong as any team in this area with the possible exception of Duke.
Next Wednesday the Wildcats journey to Durham to tackle Duke University. A victory against Duke could provide Davidson a chance
to get into the Eastern regionals. There’s a lot of season left.

INCIDENTALS

The IMAC golf tourney has begun and is being extended until November 2 because of construction work on the Mooresville
golf course. Amidst all the fall fury, basketball practice begins next Wednesday. Thanks to the Union for the Ping-Pong show
last week. Another note of interest is that this week freshman basketball practice will begin. All freshmen interested in trying
out for the team should report to the gym Tuesday, Oct. 15 at 7:30 p.m.

The Hu Now Bus Station and Ticket Office in Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

‘It’s incredible, incomparable, infallible! Code 10 for men, the new kind of hairdressing from Colgate-Palmolive. The new invisible way to
groom a man’s hair all day. Non-greasy Code 10 disappears in your hair, gives it the clean, manly look that
inflames women, infuriates inferior men. Be in. Get the non-greasy hairdressing, Code 10. It’s invisible, man!

JIM TERRY CONVERTS TENTH POINT in the third quarter while Coach Bill Dole and the remainder of the team look
on. (Staff Photo by Chatterjee)

Foglemen Flex Muscles, Shut Out Carolina 3-0 BY ERIC NICHOLS

’Cats Rebound To Score Tie With Powerful VMI BY JIM BEASLEY

Last week the VMI Keydets confidently marched into Richardson Field a 30-point favorite, expecting nothing more difficult than an afternoon
drill. Instead, they encountered a fired-up Wildcat team and were fortunate to retreat with a tie. Playing against heavy odds,
Davidson came up with an inspired team effort. VMI, conference champions, had to struggle hard for the split decision. Coach
Bill Dole remarked, “It would be unfair to our personnel to pin-point individuals and say that they were responsible for
this tie because every member of the team contributed and put out a wonderful effort.” The ‘Cat defense did a
great job of containing the Keydets, holding them scoreless in the first half. The VMI offense was forced into costly
mistakes including five fumbles, three of them inside the Davidson 11-yard line. The ‘Cats were particularly tough in the closing
minutes of the game, forcing a VMI fumble on the ‘Cat 10 which enabled Davidson to run out the clock.
Dave Sprinkle had a particularly good day at defensive halfback, breaking up several crucial pass plays.

A new Davidson defense and Lyman Dillon’s finest collegiate game proved too much for the highly touted UNC soccer squad
Wednesday afternoon. The fired-up Wildcats won the contest 3-0. Davidson went ahead to stay in the first quarter on a
boot by Walt Eckman and led 1-0 at halftime. In the second half, goals by Fred Schoen and Bruce Swain
completed the scoring. Coach Harry Fogleman used a different defensive strategy from that of the first two games. “We tried
to keep the ball in the middle and jam up their offense as much as possible.” The Tarheels found this
defensive pattern difficult to contend with. Goalie Lyman Dillon topped off the defensive exhibition with several alert saves. “This was
the finest game Lyman has ever played for me,” commented Coach Fogleman. “It was a good team effort and a
well-deserved victory.” Last Friday the team achieved victory number two as the ‘Cats battered their way to a 7-2 rout
of Guilford College. Scoring honors were well divided among the team. Booting two goals apiece were Alan Arthurs and Walt
Eckman, while Fred Schoen, Ben Nzengu, and Lee Fanning each tallied for one. The Davidson defense looked as strong as
the offensive game. Coach Fogleman noted the play of the halfbacks, who have been “moved back a little and therefore
have more running to do.” During the first half, Fogleman’s squad was hampered by five offsides penalties. The Wildcat performance
had few flaws, however, by the time the final quarter rolled around. The ball belonged to Davidson as a triple-alliance
of Eckman, Nzengu, and Fanning bombed Guilford for three goals in one 90-second period. During the closing minutes, halfback Howard
Morris came within three feet of scoring goal number eight as he unleashed a powerful kick from midfield.

Macky McClelland lugs the ball for the ‘Cats.

Phi Kappa Sigs Extend Skein To 25, Take League Lead

While the Kappa Sigs are still on top and haven't lost a game in over two years, this has to
be one of the best balanced leagues in years. Anybody can beat anybody on a given afternoon. In action this
week, the KA’s in the league; since the Beta lost to the Kappa Sigs in the last minute. Buddy DuBose
at two touchdowns. Quarterback and Sam P. Morris at linebacker looked good for the Sigs, along with Arnie Goodstein who
did a fine job on pass defense. After having a player declared ineligible earlier in the year, the Sigs don’t
appear to be the giant killer they once did. They do, however, have potential.

The Pikas finally won one in a sudden death play-off with the Pi Kapps. Walt Edgar, a Pika recruited at
the last minute to help referee the game, called pass interference on the Pi Kapps on the three-yard line; the
Pikas went on to score their only touchdown in regulation play. Much gnashing of teeth and mental turmoil followed, but
sunrise the next day found both houses still standing.

At halftime, the Betas and the Sigma Nus were tied 6-6. The Beta squad, no doubt inspired by the Spirit
of Wooglin, came back to overpower a valiant Nu team still looking for their first win.

Just down the road, the Phi Gams came back to win two this week and earned a tie for third
place. Sammy Going has continued to be a defensive stand-out for the Fijis—a team that can’t be counted out with
anyone in the league.

The Phi Delts overpowered the Sig Eps with pass interceptions in the second half. Tailback Phil Squier had trouble finding
receivers throughout the first half and had three passes intercepted before moving for a touchdown in the closing seconds. The
Delts now claim one of the best defenses.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for the famous OPEN KITCHEN, 1318 W. Morehead, Charlotte, N.C. (Photo
by McCutchen)

Eliminate three teams and Dave Johnson and David Blue. When Johnson has time to spot his receivers, they can still
be a dangerous team. While tied for third place with a 4-2 record, the Sigma Chis have no real standouts.
Their record has been earned with good team play and a competitive spirit that seems to wear down their opponents.

The ATOs, tied for third place with practically everybody else, seem to have one of the fastest teams in the
league. Dick Whitfield and Seaborn Jones, the defensive linemen, have been instrumental in compiling the 4-2 record. The team’s biggest
complaint seems to be the fact that they have had four games out of their first six scheduled for the
morning.

To cap, set the ‘Cats back to the 10 where Jim Terry kicked a field goal. This margin held for
the entire half. Junior fullback Lyle Blalock, playing his first game of the season, scored early in the second half.
It was set up by recovery of a VMI fumble on the Davidson 27. Blalock is fully recuperated from his
pre-season shoulder injury and is expected to see action in all subsequent games.

Behind 10-0, VMI scored and converted in the last minutes of the third quarter. With 4:45 remaining in the game,
the Keydets had a first down on the ‘Cat four. After a tremendous defensive effort which allowed VMI only two
yards in three plays, the Keydets kicked a field goal to salvage a tie.

The Wildcats went into the game with only Dick Fulp of the first four tackles in top shape. Bill Dole,
Jr. saw only limited action due to a back injury. Tom Simmons and Bruce Dalton, a former guard, did an
outstanding job in their first game of the season.

Sophomore Jim Terry took over the kicking duties and put 4 of Davidson’s 10 points on the board by his
field goal and extra point. A big bright spot was the punting game. Steve Heckard and Jim Fuller combined their
efforts for a 39-yard average in seven kicks. This was despite one punt which went for only a few yards.

The major weakness revealed in the game is the ‘Cat air offense. Only one of 10 attempts was completed for
a mere six-yard total. The passing game will receive a lot of attention in the next two weeks. Also, careless
mistakes continue to plague the team. Davidson lost the ball three times on fumbles and twice through intercepted passes.

This weekend is an open date for the Wildcats. They have spent it recovering from injuries, taking Monday and Thursday
off. Eight players are on the injured list and it is hoped they will all return in time for the
next game with Richmond.

BY DAVID POWELL

Despite their failure to take first place, Davidson’s cross country team used their greater depth to defeat host Pembroke last
Friday, 21-45. The result was about as expected, but Coach Heath Whittle was nonetheless elated with what he termed “a
real good performance.”

Brown, of Pembroke, an outstanding freshman runner from New York, was the first in over the 3.8-mile course with a
21:05 clocking. Twenty seconds later he was followed by the first of four Davidson men, Tommy Heffner, John Barrow, Dennis
Phillips, and Ronnie Reese in close succession. As the runners kept coming in, it was clear that Davidson had outclassed
her host.

This Saturday the team journeys to Charleston to face Citadel. Though not one of the stronger teams which Davidson faces
this season, nevertheless the Bulldog thinclads ought to provide strong competition. Andy Little, who has missed the first two meets
because of water on the knee, will be back to bolster the Davidson ranks against The Citadel.

As expected, the Davidson defense proved itself more than equal to the task of containing the Lees-McRae offense. In the
second half, the ‘Kitten defense completely dominated the action, allowing the opposition only one early penetration inside the 20. All
night Lees-McRae managed to penetrate the 20 four times. Their only touchdown was set up by a good punt return
late in the first quarter. Randy Randolph kicked a field goal for Davidson's three points near the end of the
first half.

Total offense for the two teams was about even but 'Kitten errors told the story of the game. Two fumbles
were lost (one inside the 10); two punts were blocked, and one pass was intercepted. This week the freshmen worked
on punt coverage and elimination of those costly ball-handling mistakes in preparation for their game with The Citadel last night.

BARN TO BOX!
Be a master in the art of self-defense. Expert trainers’ secrets can be yours! No equipment needed. Form a campus
boxing club among your friends for fun, self-confidence, and real physical fitness. Complete brochure and lessons one dollar. Send to:
PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, 363 Clinton Street, Hempstead, Long Island, New York.

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina
