THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1963

Council, Honor Court Explain Constitution

Spratt announced that permission has been obtained to have Martin Luther King as a chapel speaker, stressing that this did not mean that King would definitely appear.

PAGE SIX

BY RON SNOW

Interpretation of the Student Body Constitution will be in the hands of the Student Council and the Honor Court. 

"The primary purpose of Lingle Manor is to provide a social outlet for the members and also a spirit of brotherhood," said President Bill DeVaughan. "This is to be done this year by providing more and better membership activities." 

Plans for the Homecoming Weekend have been made for any member of the manor. Following the dance in the College Union tonight, Lingle Manor has scheduled a hayride from 1-4 a.m. In addition, the manor will take part in the Homecoming Queen contest by electing a candidate to compete with the girls chosen by the various fraternities. Tomorrow the manor will sponsor a party to be held off campus.

Lingle Manor, now in its second year of operation, is presently reorganizing its program and planning a social calendar intended to make the manor more attractive to Independents and more enjoyable for members. At the present time, Lingle Manor has 30 paid members, but DeVaughan expected the number to reach at least 50 before the end of the school year. New members of the organization are Spencer Caldwell, David Coffey, Willie Edmonds, Hunter Hill, George Nzongola, and Larry Noah. Officers for the 1963-64 year are DeVaughan, Vice-President John Rankin, and Harry Blakeslee, while Bob Miller will handle the sound. Jack Althoff will be technical stage manager. They will be assisted by other students of the college interested in backstage work. Admission prices will be $1.00 for adults and 50 cents for students.

TEA AND TALK greeted parents and freshmen when they gathered at the home of President D. Grier Martin last Saturday. Advisor Tommy Stafford participates in the continuing battle over the teacups with a freshman parent. (Staff Photo by Sam Smith)

The constitution clearly states that the Student Council has full power of interpretation but fails to mention anything about interpretation by the Honor Court. If the Honor Court were given the full interpretative power, it would lose its status as a judiciary committee and become more like a legislative group. This would infringe upon the function of the Student Council and hinder the action of both groups. The Honor Court has assumed power of interpretation in the past and made decisions with that understanding, but without formal permission since it is not written into the constitution. Student Council President John Spratt feels that the groups will have enough advance notice to clarify any issues which could arise.

Drama Department Opens Season With Wilde’s Play

BY DAVID COFFEY

The Importance of Being Earnest, a comedy by Oscar Wilde, will be presented by the Department of Drama and Speech in Hodson Hall at 8:15 p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 30 to Saturday, Nov. 2. The comedy will be the department's first major production of the school year, and will also be the first to be directed by the college's new drama professor, Rupert T. Barber, Jr.

The play requires a cast of nine. One of the leading roles, that of John Worthing, will be filled by sophomore Robert Powell in his first appearance on the Davidson stage. Another sophomore, Decker Faw, will portray the Rev. Canon Chasuble. Faw portrayed the same character in his high school’s production of this comedy. Smith McKeithen, a junior, has been cast as Algernon Moncrieff. In his past two years at Davidson, he has acted in The Taming of the Shrew, Antigone, and Krapp’s Last Tape.

Mrs. J. S. Winkler will portray Lady Bracknell. Mrs. Winkler has appeared in The Adding Machine, Arms and the Man, The Man Who Came to Dinner, and Androcles and the Lion at Davidson. The role of Gwendolen Fairfax will be filled by Mrs. James Gross, who has acted in the drama department's productions of The Adding Machine, The Taming of the Shrew, Madwoman of Chaillot, J.B., and Midsummer Night’s Dream. Sue Logan, daughter of Dr. T. S. Logan of the chemistry department, has been cast as Cecily Cardew. A senior at North Mecklenburg High School, she has appeared in the Davidson production of The Devil’s Disciple, The Solid-Gold Cadillac, and Galileo.

The manservant Lane will be portrayed by Jon Miller, also a junior, who has been in the Davidson production of Winterset and The Lottery. Completing the male cast will be freshman Ed Dwelle, who has been cast as Merriman, the butler. Dwelle, from Jacksonville, Fla., was active in dramatics at Virginia's Episcopal High School.

Prodigious Trophy

A new 30-inch, 100-pound ROTC trophy will be awarded annually by the Secretary of the Army to the outstanding ROTC graduate selected from the 175,000 student officers in 247 colleges and universities, it was announced by the Army. Selection of the winner each year will be based upon the “individual’s military and academic grades, potential qualities as an officer, leadership in academic and student-body fields, and demonstrated qualities of discipline, courtesy, personality, and character.” First presentation of the trophy will be made at the end of the 1963-64 school year.Welsh, wife of the professor of music, will make her first appearance in a Davidson production in the role of Miss Prism, the governess. She holds a bachelor’s degree in drama from Carnegie Tech. Lighting for the production will be manned by David James.

EXAM SCHEDULE - JANUARY 1964

FRI. A.M. Fourth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday Jan. 17 P.M.
SAT. A.M. Fifth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday Jan. 18 P.M.
First hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

MON. A.M. Jan. 20 P.M.
First hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

TUE. A.M. Sixth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday Jan. 21 P.M.

WED. A.M. Second hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Jan. 22 P.M.
ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41

THUR. A.M. Jan. 23 P.M.
Second hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

FRI. A.M. Third hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Jan. 24 P.M.

SAT. A.M. Fourth hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Jan. 25 P.M.
Third hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

The best dressed college men in the Carolinas wear clothes from Jack Wood

CHARLOTTE

THE FUN BEGINS HATTI

Just up the road....

Although there will be no reserved seats available, tickets must be bought for a specific night. Tickets will go on sale at the Student Union on Monday, Oct. 28. They will also be available in the Drama Office in the Fine Arts Building each day next week from 9 a.m. until noon.

Eumaneans Plan Study Of Liberalism

An examination and discussion of the “liberal” movement as it pertains to political, theological, and social institutions is the aim of the Eumanean Literary Society in its programs this year while maintaining the traditions and ideals of the society, according to Bill Garrard, secretary of the group.

A consideration of authors ranging from James Baldwin to Bertrand Russell, plus debates and discussions varying from governmental authority to contemporary theology will provide a format to the meetings. With this new emphasis, the society will seek to revive from the past consisting of a literary “grab-bag” consisting of aimless book reports, lectures, and debates in order to give the individual the opportunity to increase his communicative abilities and “broaden his perspective beyond the bounds of provincialism.”

Dr. Phillip Secor will deliver the keynote address at the society’s meeting on Monday, Nov. 4. The meeting, open to the public, will begin at 7:30 p.m. in the Eu Hall.

The world.

AT E'S

The trophy will be displayed at the recipient's school for a period of one year following presentation. The winner’s name and school will be permanently engraved on the trophy.

Pardon me if I sound as if the executive position I've landed deals with the whole future of Secretary Doug Woodworth and Treasurer Jim Weber. Material improvements are being made in the manor, according to DeVaughan. Two couches and an FM radio are new this year, and the members expect to add a piano to the stereo room soon.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Parker
Applewhite
Frey
Lester
Bondurant
Gallent
Lindsey
Pinkerton
Bryan
Ghigo
McGill
Purcell
Reid
Causey
Hampton
Mansour
Sailstad
Cole
Johnson, N. M.
Mebane
Phies
Thompson
White, H. E.
Winkler
Wruck

Certainly, there's no organization today conducting more vital business than the business of the United States Air Force, and very few organizations that give a college graduate greater opportunities for responsibility and growth. As an Air Force officer, you'll be a leader on the Aerospace Team—with good pay, a 30-day paid vacation each year, and educational opportunities. How can you get started? For many, the best way is through Air Force ROTC. But if you missed out on AFROTC, or if there's no unit on your campus, you can still apply for Air Force Officer Training School. This three-month course leads to a commission as a second lieutenant in the United States Air Force. For more information about Air Force OTS, see your local Air Force representative.

U.S. Air Force

TO DAVIDSON GRADS

Homecoming is a tradition and it never changes. There are new faces, new professors, and new buildings but the atmosphere is the same. Reminiscing is a great joy, bringing back many fond memories. Comradeship with old friends enlivens the day. We wish for each of you a most wonderful Homecoming.

TO DAVIDSON UNDERGRADS

Homecoming is a day that you can proudly acclaim your loved ones who will be with you, to take pride in showing them your fine college and make them a part of it. Meeting new acquaintances and renewing old friendships will brighten your day. We wish for you an outstanding football victory and may your date for the dances be the prettiest of all.

This message comes to you with all sincerity from TATE-BROWN’S, a clothing store that has been a tradition with Davidson students for sixty-six years.

126 S. TRYON ST.