VOL. LI

The era of the “Gentleman’s C” at Davidson may well have been ended by an Executive Committee policy effected last month. The committee has begun the first intensive, blanket drive to eliminate the “underachiever” from the Davidson campus. In late August, almost 80 letters were sent to students of the Sophomore and Junior Classes. While each of the letters were typed separately to give the air of the personal touch, each had the same thing to say, in effect: “Underachiever, put out or get out.”

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts explained how the label of “underachiever” was pinned on nearly one of seven in the two classes concerned and how it will continue to be used with all future classes at Davidson: “The Executive Committee took the information the Admissions Committee took at the time a man enters college. The Admissions Committee has a formula they've used for the last three years to determine what a man can do at Davidson. It is based on primarily two things—the man’s rank in his secondary school class and his college boards.

“Using that formula, we can come up with a man’s projected average. There is an allowed deviation of .5 of a point. If a man is from .5 of a point below to .5 of a point above his projected average, he is considered to be achieving normally.”

Thus, the Executive Committee of the faculty considers an underachiever any student who is making anything more than .5 of a point below his projected average. And “achieving properly” does not have anything to do with actual grades. Burts cited the example of one underachiever who has a 1.95 average (nearly a B). He was projected by the Admissions Committee to have a 2.50 average.

Burts said that students from private schools were not evaluated by the formula since rank in class there meant little. There is no projected average for them from the Admissions Committee. The dean said that he had to make a personal consideration of their secondary school record to decide whether or not to place them in the underachiever category. He admitted that pegging underachievers by private study was not as accurate as with the mathematical formula. “But I have enough savvy to spot an underachiever from a private school,” he said.

As a result of the studies by the dean on achievement of sophomores and juniors, every student in the two classes now has a rating: he is a normal achiever, an underachiever or an overachiever (if his average is more than .5 of a point above his projected average).

As to the fate of underachievers, the letters sent to them sternly warned: “The subject of underachievement as a whole and your record in particular will be a matter of continuing concern. Periodic reviews of your record will be made at the end of each semester. No later than the end of the spring semester next year the Executive Committee will determine whether or not your record justifies continuance in the College.”

Burts said that the sending of the letters is practically all the Executive Committee intends to do to prod underachievers into action. “The definite interest is that improvement be made,” Burts said. “The average resulting from the improvement should approach what the man is capable of. I think .5 of a point is approaching that.” But if the prodding does not work, Burts indicated strongly that the Executive Committee would suspend a student. Burts did promise that “before anyone is suspended, there will be an intensive study of his record. There will not be anything automatic about this suspension. We will wait and get the record and study it.”

Burts said the Executive Committee would probably look favorably on substantial improvement by an underachiever, even if such improvement did not raise him to an acceptable average. But Burts also said no systematic method has yet been established for determining whether one underachiever who has not reached his potential might be permitted to stay while another might have to leave. He hinted strongly that each individual case would be considered upon its own merits.

Lagging Students Tell Reactions To Letter

Fear swelled up in some; others were bitterly defiant. Still others were indifferent. And from one frustrated scholar there even came a spark of gratitude. But in most “underachievers,” when the Executive Committee’s crackdown on loafers was announced, mixed emotions were encountered. Assured of safety through anonymity, a number of the lackadaisical pupils revealed their reactions.

Said one defiant schoolhouse lawyer about the new decision: "What irks me is the fact that the academic requirements are clearly spelled out in the Wildcat Handbook as to what a student must accomplish prior to entering each class and prior to graduation. No doubt, there is a catch-all rule concerning attitude or something of that sort which the college has included in its regulations which provides the Executive Committee with the means of vaguely bypassing the clearly spelled out academic requirements.”

With a rather indifferent attitude, another non-striver said of the letter, “It was kind of a reminder; it didn't tell me anything new. It was kind of a pressurizer. I didn't work very hard last year; I hope it will be different this year. It’s really up to me and no one else. The letter won’t help me work any harder; it’s just another thing to add pressure.”

Another C-man who received the strongly worded late-August note was indignant. “It didn't tell me anything I didn’t already know—I find it highly insulting.”

Another underachiever thoughtfully said, “I think I deserved to get the letter if they’re doing something like this. I think my grades would have come up anyway; they have been coming up all along. I wonder if they haven't made a mistake in ranking me as to what grades I should be making.”

The most frequent complaint from the underachievers questioned was that they did not know exactly what the college expected of them in the way of an average. But there was one underachiever who felt happy over the fact that he had received a letter from the Executive Committee. “I appreciate the fact the college is following my progress,” he said. “I think it’s a good thing the college is interested in you. I feel that it would be better to have gotten the letter from someone who knows me personally, like my faculty advisor," he suggested.

Then there was the lagging scholar who sharpened his mind enough to make the statement, “If there's a place for overachievers in this world, there's a place for underachievers.”

‘CATS TACKLE FURMAN TONIGHT (See Page Three)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1963

195 Freshmen Pledge Greek Chapters Today

One hundred and ninety-five freshmen strolled down Patterson Fraternity Court this afternoon as Greeks rushed out from their 12 doorways to greet them. This represents approximately 75 percent of the Class of 1967.

After Controversy Goodykoontz Now Teaching At UNC

Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz, who resigned last spring in the midst of a controversy involving himself and the college administration, is now at the University of North Carolina. The former English professor and director of the Vagabonds writes: “I shall be at Chapel Hill for a year (by present plans), teaching a couple of courses, doing some writing, and taking my time trying to find a proper... small liberal arts college where I should like to stay for a while. Or maybe... I'll take up some other job.”

In the aftermath of Goodykoontz’s resignation from the Vagabonds in February came a sharply debated question of the role of creativity on the Davidson campus. Involved with the professor in his struggle with the administration were several members of the Vagabonds. The controversy became more heated when the professor set up a sharply critical display on the subject in the galleries of the Fine Arts Center. When the ever-growing display soon involved college officials in its critique, the dispute boiled over. Goodykoontz resigned. But the supposedly ended hassle sprang alive with new intensity when Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston accepted the resignation “effective immediately.” Harmony finally came only after Goodykoontz appealed to the Board of Trustees. The board, while reaffirming confidence in Johnston and his action, voted to reinstate the professor for the remainder of the academic year.

New Vespers Rule Effective Sunday

The students’ option of attending the morning service of any Davidson church in lieu of the required evening vespers goes into effect tomorrow, Sept. 15. This new regulation will give a student the choice of attending the Sunday evening vespers service at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, or attending the Sunday morning worship service of a local church. The resolution was adopted by the faculty last spring after being discussed for several years.

Chaplain Will Terry announced the details of the new system this week. Attendance cards will be placed on a table in the narthex of every church within the town limits of Davidson. Davidson Methodist Church, Davidson College Presbyterian Church, and St. Albans Episcopal Church are cooperating now; however, other arrangements can be made as needed, according to Chaplain Terry. Only churches within the town limits of Davidson are affected. If a student doesn't attend church in town in the morning, he must attend the regular college vespers service in order to receive credit for attendance.

For the three remaining Sundays in the month (Sept. 15, 22 and 29) morning worship services at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church will begin at 9:45 a.m. The new Covenant Life Curriculum will be taught at this time with a discussion following in church school at 11 a.m. Services will revert to the usual hour in October.

SMALL TALK — A group of present fraternity men stand outside a freshman dorm in anticipation of luring some unsuspecting novice into their circle of conversation in a typical scene from Rush Week 1963. Today marks the end of a long and tiring grind for rushers and rushees. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Handbook Financial Woes Probably Non-Existent

Editor Tim Kimrey, who has been fearful that funds for his Wildcat Handbook might be reduced, will probably receive payment despite dissatisfaction by some officials with the publication’s editorial comments. Associate Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White, who usually orders 100 copies for his office, was reported to have said early this week that he could not use this year’s handbook. But in a DAVIDSONIAN interview...Wednesday White clarified the report: “I would have reservations about using this book with these comments in trying to interest a boy in Davidson.” He pointed out the comments by Editor Kimrey might be misinterpreted by prospective students who have not had first-hand contact with Davidson. White felt that Kimrey need not worry about the money from the books the Admissions Office had ordered. The official stated that since his order had been placed last spring, he would take the books even though he could not use all of them. Business Manager Robert A. Currie, who is also a member of the Publications Board, did not definitely say that the college would pay for books which White does not use. However, Currie did say, “Mr. White ordered the books, and he would have said something to me by now if he couldn’t use them.”

White went on to say, “There are some editorial comments in there that are presenting the least favorable side of Davidson College.” He hinted that several acquaintances did not think the editor’s words would be pleasing to prospective students. White said that in considering whether or not to use the handbook he had to “think about it in the sense of the prospective student.” He added, “As I read some of the editorial comments I can't help but feel that a boy in Columbus, Ohio, might feel that this book is the college's official word to him.” The admissions official said he felt a boy ignorant of the school might “get the wrong impression.” White did say, however, that he might use a few of the books this year with certain individual students who are not totally unknowing of Davidson. “I've run into certain students that I would not hesitate to hand the book to,” he commented. White also said, “I don't feel that it is particularly desirable for a new student to learn all about the negative side of Davidson at once. I am sort of inclined to think that there is no advantage to this sort of editorial comment.”

Editor Kimrey defended his policy of revealing “a well-rounded picture of Davidson” to the innocent eyes of the freshmen. “That book is an information book and an introduction of Davidson to new students,” he said. “Omission of certain things that are an integral part of the college is as great an error as putting down something that is completely false." Questioned on the precedent that the book possibly set for future Wildcat publications, Kimrey said, “I would hesitate to say whether or not this book will set a new precedent. I would hope the future books will serve as a source of real information rather than just a book of dry facts.” Summing up his position, Kimrey stated, “I just don't see how the Hill can be so dismayed at having a thing like this appear in print. I don’t think student criticism of the administration comes from any student animosity toward them as they seem to feel. Student criticism has done some positive good: for instance, an improved cut system has been implemented and has proven to be a success. I think that continued student demands for action on the drinking issue will lead to some positive results.”

Bouscaren Speaks At Chapel Tuesday

Dr. Anthony Trawick Bouscaren, conservative lecturer and professor of political science at Le Moyne College, will speak in chapel Tuesday morning. Following chapel, a coffee hour will be held in the College Union. Bouscaren, a former Marine pilot, received his doctorate from the University of California. He was a faculty member of the National War College in 1957-58 and has lectured at Naval War College and the General Staff College. In 1958 he won the Freedoms Foundation award. Bouscaren is the author of Soviet Foreign Policy, A Guide to Anti-Communist Action and Imperial Communism as well as other books and pamphlets. His visit to Davidson is sponsored jointly by the Conservative Club and the Intercollegiate Society of Individualists. The Conservative Club's first program this year will be an open house for freshmen in the Green Room of the College Union Monday at 7:15 p.m. Its meetings will be held bi-weekly this year.

Today’s pledging brought to a close one of the most hectic Rush Weeks in recent years as both semester classes and rush parties conflicted throughout part of the week. The first series of parties ran through Wednesday night with two nights of redates Thursday and Friday. Cheers went up seconds after 2 p.m. when the first freshman indicated his choice and continued until pledging closed at 3:30. The pledging period was preceded by a period of silence which went into effect last night at 10 p.m. No rushee could have further contact with any fraternity man until the close of pledging this afternoon. The 75 per cent figure is slightly larger than the comparable figure last fall, when 182 freshmen or roughly 69 per cent pledged fraternities at the conclusion of Rush Week. These totals, of course, were altered by late pledging.

ALPHA TAU OMEGA
Hobs Allen, Jose Borrajero, Henry Cochran, Ross Cornwell, Jimmy Davis, Robert Dean, Gary De Vane, Locke Holland, Herb Jackson, Bill Jones, Dick Kindred, David Lockman, Mal Murray, Tim Rothermel, Charles Steele, and Skip Waite.

BETA THETA PI
Mickey Andrews, Mo Bethea, Sam Cathey, Tom Frist, Richard Holt, Steve Humphrey, Johnny Jeter, Arch McCallum, Chuck Matthews, Mac Otts, Edwin Pate, Bill Puckett, Joe Rice, Scott Sanford, Jack Sherill, Jim Timmons, Kem Anderson, and Johnny Webb.

KAPPA ALPHA
Duff Armfield, Tom Dews, Buddy Durham, Renn Gruber, Jim Houser, Martin Miller, Rick Moore, Bob Murphy, Johnny Selph, Penn Spell, Charles Vick, and Bill Webb.

KAPPA SIGMA
Wade Boatright, Bill Crane, Lloyd Davidson, Walter Daniel, Peter Van Dorsten, Buddy Finch, Joe Gaddy, Raymond Garrison, Jimmy Holt, Joe Jelks, Ben King, Bennie Knight, Roddey Knowles, Tucker Laxton, Paul Nicholson, Pete Parrot, Norman Pease, Esmond Phelps, Barry St. Clair, and Johnny Walker.

PHI DELTA THETA
John Barnhardt, Cal Calhoun, Charles Edwards, John Fagg, Stanley Hackett, John Hurst, Tommy Leslie, John Loughridge, Terry O’Hair, Joe Peel, Tom Puckett, Wayne Rhodes, William Rikard, Brooks Sheldon, and Gil Wheeler.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Howard Bryan, Dobbin Callahan, Carl Corter, Ed Childs, Frank Crothers, Bob Dugger, Julian Fite, Mike Gibbons, Richard Graham, Cliff Johnson, Ray Ledford, Charley Lloyd, Claude Owen, Jim Phipps, George Piper, Jimmy Poole, William Randolph, Ben Reeves, Greg Reineck, Gary Waldron, and Jim Walls.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Wes Bailey, Joe Baird, Don Carroll, Brady Dickson, Joe Goldston, Johnny Gresham, Chris Hawn, Wayne Lane, Louis Lesesne, George Ludwig, Bill Moye, John McGuire, Buford Norman, Bob O'Kelly, Ray Spivey, Dick Thurston, Don Tyler, Jon Ward, and Alva Whitehead.

PI KAPPA PHI
Alan Cooper, Paul Curlee, Dennis Dobson, John Faulkenberry, Dighton Fiddue, William Foster, Carey Hewitt, Cary Kettner, John Leet, Kenneth Lineberger, John McClatchey, Hamp Morris, William Owen, Frank Patterson, David Purnell, Charles Robertson, Gene Shepherd, Sterling Southern, and Charles Taylor.

(Continued On Back Page)

‘Orientation Successful’ Says ’67 Frosh Advisor
BY BILL AITKEN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“Well pleased!” commented Tom Stafford, this year’s freshman advisor, concerning the Class of ’67 orientation program this week. “I feel that the orientation program met with definite success with both freshmen and faculty,” added Stafford. He attributed this success in part to a change in the faculty reception and to the book, The Right of the People by William O. Douglas. At the reception, unlike previous years, the students were asked to officially meet only Dr. and Mrs. Frontis W. Johnston, Dr. and Mrs. Richard C. Burts, Chaplain Will Terry and Mrs. J. B. Moore. The remainder of the faculty were grouped according to departments, and the students could meet as many or as few of the faculty members as he chose. Stafford remarked that at first the reception moved slowly but became a success as more students mixed with the faculty.

The biggest change in this year's orientation program was the introduction of discussion groups on Douglas’ book. In the spring each member of the Freshman Class received a letter requesting him to read the above work before coming to Davidson in the fall. On Tuesday, Sept. 10, Dr. W. P. Minter, professor of political science, gave a brief resume of the book during which he posed questions to be discussed by the freshmen immediately following his talk. Robert Young, assistant dean of students, said that the apparent immediate success of this discussion could lead to more of this type of activity in future freshman orientations. Young said, “Orientation has in previous years been concerned primarily with adjusting the freshmen physically and socially. With the introduction of discussion groups, the freshman is now able to begin to adjust himself academically before classes start.”

Other minor changes were also introduced into orientation. On Saturday, Sept. 7, the class of ’67 convened in Hodson Hall to hear presentations by four members of the Davidson faculty on various phases of college life. This combination of four speeches within an hour assembly, while necessarily limiting the depth into which each speaker could pursue his topic, enabled the orientation program to provide the freshmen with more time for discussion with his group and advisor as well as to give him more free time. The faculty advisers’ picnics, athletic proficiency tests, tours of the library and campus, and issuance of ROTC uniforms still, however, remained on the agenda. Stafford was pleased with the use of freshman camp. With the elimination of repetition, the YMCA-sponsored camp became not a pre-orientation orientation but a definite asset to the overall program.

Freshman Regulations
1. Freshmen must speak respectfully to everyone they meet on campus.
2. Freshmen must wear the prescribed name plates at all times on the campus and must place name cards on the doors of their dormitory rooms.
3. Freshmen must wear the prescribed caps whenever out of doors on the campus.
4. Freshmen must know the college yells and songs by the first pep rally; must attend all pep rallies; and when on campus attend all home athletic contests.
5. All regulations shall become effective on Sunday, Sept. 15, 1963. Regulations shall be effective until Thanksgiving, unless the freshmen win the field day, which shall be held within a week before or after the first six-weeks grading period.
6. Freshmen must not walk on the grass.