PAGE FOUR

LAKE NORMAN ... in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

RENT NEW CARS AND SAVE UP TO 40%: BUDGET RENT-A-CAR SYSTEM
Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II, and Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Rent a car the BUDGET Way, less per mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you need. We feature free hotel and airport pickup and delivery service.
376-0213
301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte

LIEUTENANT BOB AKAM, B.S. IN AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
“If I had it to do over again, would I take Army R.O.T.C.? Look at it this way. I like the idea of doing challenging work. That’s why I volunteered for Special Forces. So you can see why I felt pretty good when the Army assigned me to Europe! Here I really feel I’m doing something for the cause of my country in these important times. How many jobs can you think of that start you off with this kind of responsibility? My wife’s here, too, and she loves it. We get a chance to travel. We meet the people, learn new languages, customs. And there’s a pretty active social life on post, too. But above all, I’m an officer with a job to do and with responsibilities to shoulder. I like it that way, and I have a hunch that my leadership training and experience will help me out whatever I do. Take it from me, if you’re already halfway towards your commission, see it through. It’s a good deal. I know.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SNAGGED BY BOB MARSHALL
One warm spring night Mark and Sandra lay snug- gled tightly in the spacious front seat of Mark’s father’s new, light-blue convertible. They were parked at their favorite place, a road overlooking the country club golf course and used only by maintenance vehicles. Mark lazily gazed into the sky. There was no moon and the night air was crystal clear. Millions of stars blinked in brilliant flashes of light against the inky blackness of the sky. Only the soft music of the radio broke the heavy silence. Never had he been so blissfully happy. Everything was so perfect he wished he could stay there the rest of his life. Then the music was interrupted. “Attention, news bulletin,” the radio barked. Mark scarcely noticed any change. It seemed no different from the advertisements which periodically pleaded for attention. The announcement continued, “A convict has just escaped from the Bellville Penitentiary. Reports indicate that he may have headed this way. A search has been organized in an all-out attempt to apprehend him. He was serving a life term for rape and first-degree murder. He is thirty-six years of age, white, about six feet tall, and of medium build. He is easily recognized by the iron hook which has replaced his left hand since he lost it seventeen years ago in a hunting accident. He is considered dangerous. We urge that all residents in this broadcast area exercise extreme caution until further reports tell of his capture.” Mark felt Sandra stiffen slightly in his arms. “What’s the matter?” he asked. “Didn’t you hear that bulletin?” she whispered quickly. “Naw, what about it?” “A convict has escaped from Bellville Penitentiary. That’s only fifteen miles from here and he’s headed this way. Mark, I don’t like it.” “Aw, don’t sweat it. Radio stations just like to build things up for the public,” he assured her with an air of masculine superiority. Sandra was easily

Tree Maker
Have you ever considered all that is contained within a tiny seed? Let us suppose you are an engineer. You have been given the task of designing an acorn. You are given a set of specifications from which to work. You must design something no larger than the end of your finger which, under the proper conditions of temperature and moisture, will begin to absorb certain minerals from the soil. It must be able to change these minerals chemically into different substances to form millions of microscopic cells and capillaries. It must send roots deep into the earth for support and the absorption of more water and minerals. At the same time, it must be capable of pushing a trunk upward through the soil from any position. It must have a master plan which will be able to guide the construction of light-sensitive leaves of a definite shape, texture, size, and hue on branches which shall form at designated places, angles, and intervals on the trunk. As a further challenge, you must include in this master blueprint a means for the completed structure to produce many more such acorns. The wonders of disease resistance and winter dormancy are just a few more of the millions of miracles packed within a tiny seed. Yes, only God can make a tree.
— Bob Marshall

RECREATIONAL RETREAT... Stonestreet CAFE Mooresville
Grade A
Enjoy: Delicious Steaks, Sandwiches, Breakfast
Open 24 Hrs. A Day Except For SundayConvinced, since this was exactly what she wanted to believe. Securely in his arms once more, she soon left the cares of the world far behind.

“Attention please,” the radio sharply interrupted again. “The convict who escaped from Bellville Penitentiary earlier this evening has been spotted within two miles of this station in the Rockmont area. We again urge you to use every precaution.”

“Mark?!” she blurted excitedly, “that’s almost in this very area! Oh please, let's leave.”

Mark had heard the announcement this time. He wished he hadn't. He had that feeling you get when the telephone rings in the middle of the prayer during a family devotional.

“The chances are a thousand to one that he won’t come anywhere near us,” he snapped. “Do you care no more about me than to let any little thing distract you?”

“Any little thing? I suppose a dangerous, escaped convict here in this area is just an irritating trifle? I can tell you're really concerned about my safety. If you don’t take me home right now, you'll just have to start looking elsewhere in your little black book.”

Mark was furious, not necessarily at Sandra but at everything in general. He couldn't believe that one moment everything could be so wonderful, and be shattered the next. What had seemed like vast heavens, set with twinkling stars just minutes before, had closed in until he now felt as though he were confined to a black bag with light sneaking in through pinholes. As for the radio, he wanted to rip the wires out. That was what had started it all in the first place.

“All right,” he shouted, “if that’s the way you want it.”

Mark crammed the key in the ignition and wrenched it to the right. The new 370-horsepower engine roared into life. He threw the gear shift lever into low and savagely floored the accelerator. The tires screamed into the night as the convertible surged forward with a jolt that sent them both deep into their seats. They rode home in silence, childishly sulking. Mark pulled up to her house and stopped with a jerk. He flung the door open and bounded out. Slamming the door with a resounding clunk, he walked to the other side of the car to let her out, a long-established habit of courtesy. As he rounded the long, sleek tail fin, he stopped short, drawing a quick little breath. He stood rooted to the spot and broke out in a cold sweat. The sight before him made him feel a dizzy sickness. An iron hook, ripped loose at the wrist, dangled from the rear door handle with blood dripping off the still clinging flesh and splattering down the shiny, light blue fender.

---

FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1963

The Beachcomber

Sloping dunes and children’s castles.
Reeds are waving golden tassels.
Shining edges, waves caressing.
Whitecaps dance with Luna's blessing.
Sands that shine with breakers passing,
Waves that rise with Neptune's casting.
Conchshells lie in solemn silence,
Sandcrabs run with awkward violence.
Shadows gray of palmtrees waving
Salty sprays their leaves are bathing.
Whispering breezes touch the ocean.
Silver grasses sway with motion.
Pairs of feet the sand disturbing.
Lines of froth are gently curving.
Stopping here to wet my feet,
Finding there a sandy seat.
Wiggling toes in cool delight,
Settling back to watch the sight.
Moon and waves are playing, dancing,
Like a stallion proudly prancing.
Soon the moonbeams softly failing,
Run from skies the sun is paling.
Now the cooling sands are warming,
Rising sun in fullness forming.
The moon again will come so soon,
And then’s the time I walk the dune.

— Porter Halyburton

---

SUMMER JOBS

Send now for list of 1000 summer employers. Camps, hotels, U. S., Canada, Mexico. $1.00 to Stanley Assocs., Box 2144, Phila. 3, Pa.

— Porter Halyburton

---

There's more than fabric superiority in Gant. In addition, “needled-into the warp and woof of every Gant shirt” — there's flair-fit-show — three vital inherents that make all the difference when a man wears a Gant. We chose Gant because they take shirt making seriously. They’re hard to please (like we are) when it comes to fit of collar, its roll, its profile—how much it shows above the suit collar. They're fastidious about the way the body of the shirt drapes and folds. All must integrate to achieve that viable ingredient which gives comfort and aplomb. In substance, Gant shirts are keyed to the discerning tastes of well-groomed men who appreciate quality. These men are our customers.

Gentry House
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

---

Courses... register... rush stand... wait... shuffle... go... twitch... fidget... yawn... stop... move... nearer... nearer... filled... pause... things go better with Coke.

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by:
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina