PAGE FOUR

Vagabonds To Present Two Plays By Students

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1963

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Cumming
Lammers
Rhodes
Gourley
McGeachy
Schenck
Hight
Minter
Smith
Houchens
Pierce
Threlkeld
Hunt
Plott
Willcox
Jackson
Polley
Wruck

The Vagabonds will present two plays, both by Davidson students, in their next workshop, Feb. 12 and 14. Admission will be 25 cents.

The two plays are “November Requiem” and “Gone.” They were both entered in the Vagabond Original Play Contest. Two more plays will be presented March 13-14 and two on April 16-17. The plays will be judged by members of the Vagabonds. The audience will also be asked to comment on them. First prize in the contest is $50 in books chosen by the winner; second prize is $25 in books.

“November Requiem,” by sophomore Bill Trotter, is set in Hungary during the 1956 revolution. It is intended to be a character study of “men who die for a hopeless cause.” The play will be directed by Bill Denham, a senior from Winston-Salem.

“Gone,” by junior Bill Ferris, has been called a “Mississippi folk play.” Ferris comes from Vicksburg, Miss., and has written, for the most part, about that part of the country. “Gone” will be directed by John Pruitt, also a junior.

The Vagabonds will present “The Adding Machine,” an expressionistic play by Elmer Rice, on Feb. 27-March 2. The play will be directed by Mrs. David Hampton. One of the main features will be the abstract sets and experimental lighting. Many of the sets will be silhouettes, and some furniture will be used in different ways for the different scenes.

The play, according to Mrs. Hampton, “exposes the mind and soul of the white-collar worker.” The characters in the play are types rather than real people. Zero, the lead, is played by Pete Myers. After working for 25 years in the same office, he has been replaced by an adding machine. The play is a story of the results. He is never satisfied, even when he reaches paradise. Because of the universality of the characters, Mrs. Hampton commented, the actor must “lose his individuality. In reality, he does not represent anything.” “Although it was written in 1923, the play describes a kind of man that is still present today.” Zero is the “slave type, mediocre spirit.”

Three students—Jon Miller, Neal Bushoven, and Walter Edgar—are now working part-time as replacements for Don Stowell. Woodykoontz stated that there is still a staff shortage. “It is a problem of quality without quantity.”

Sailstad Becomes Drama Chairman

Robert J. Sailstad, director of Public Relations and Development at Davidson College, was elected chairman of the new Vagabond Governing and Planning Board at a general meeting of the members of the drama organization last week. The new board, which will have general supervision of the Vagabond program at Davidson, is composed of 11 members: six student representatives, two community representatives, and one each from the faculty and administration. The Vagabond director is the eleventh member. Members are, in addition to Sailstad, Dr. Samuel D. Maloney from the community;

RE-DISCOVERED CHARTER found languishing in a Chamber's Vault. (Staff Photo by McCutchen.)

Free Cuts Adjudged OK After A Semester's Practice

BY BILL LOGAN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“This year's cut system,” reports Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, “has proved generally successful. There doesn’t seem to be an overall increase in cutting.” Although there was an increase in the number of automatic failures for lower than 75% attendance (nine students in the fall semester, 1961-62, to 17 students in the fall semester, 1962-63), Burts is not unduly concerned. He said he had expected that some students would have to learn the hard way in using their added freedom. He hopes that these 17 students won't repeat and that others will learn from them, so that the number of automatic failures will steadily decrease.

There are three principal differences in this year’s cut system and last year’s system. (1) Attendance records now make no distinction between excused and unexcused absences as they did last year; (2) there is now no extra penalty for cuts immediately before or after a holiday: last year they counted as double cuts; and (3) last year’s system called for the loss of all quality points after four unexcused absences; there is no such provision now. This provision took quality points from 260 students last year, and its being excluded this year is what caused some expectation of increased cutting.

Burts said that officials at a neighboring institution have been examining Davidson's cut system and are planning to visit our campus to help decide on a proposal to adopt a similar system. Dr. T. O. Pinkerton, who was at Trinity College, Hartford, Conn., when they inaugurated their new system, said that students so abused their freedom that the flunk-out rate doubled. He said that he was very pleased with the way his students assumed their attendance responsibilities last semester. He said, “I am certainly glad to see that Davidson hasn't had to experience what Trinity College did in initiating a more liberal cut system. Trinity's attendance records returned to almost normal the following semester and were actually better than normal the next year. I hope that Davidson's attendance, too, will improve. The new system seems to be successful so far, but it’s too early to tell for sure.” He laughed and added, “The real test will come this spring.”

More On Oath

(Continued From Page One)

A professor who wished to remain unidentified did state their views more openly. One said: “The oath was started at a different period in 1874. It is now detrimental in certain ways to the college in that it increases difficulty in getting new members on the faculty. Also, the oath harms the real attitude the college has and puts us in association with a group of narrow and bigoted colleges. The oath does not represent us, as we really are.” The other professor agreed that the oath harms Davidson in its competition with other schools for top-notch faculty members. “We may be one of the best institutions in the South. But what is that really saying? We do not begin to compete with the great universities and colleges. When an institution becomes stagnant in its ideas, it begins to die,” he added.

Dr. Jay H. Ostwalt, who said that he turned down a professorship eight or nine years ago because of the oath, said, “I can see no reason at all for the oath.” Other than that, he refused to comment.

Two other professors do see reasons for the oath. Charles E. Lloyd, assistant professor of English, stated that the college had the right to say what group of men its professors should come from. “I feel that it is entirely right for the college to be committed to a certain means of life. I think the people who founded the college were on the right track. I don’t want to see a weaker relationship between the program of the college and the church.”

Dr. E. A. Beaty also said that he felt that the oath is a good thing. “If not this oath, I think the college should have some oath for full professors because it is a church-related school. I think the college has a right to ask a professor to support the patterns of life to which the main body holds. Until we get something better, I am in favor of this oath.”

The remainder of the faculty will be given the chance to speak their views in the meeting on Tuesday.

Professor Denis Baly, head of the Department of Religion and lecturer in political science at Kenyon College, Ohio, will be on the Davidson College campus Feb. 10-15 as a Danforth Lecturer. Baly will be the Vesper speaker on Feb. 10 and will address the student body on Feb. 12 and 14. He will also be available for

The Davidson College Wind Ensemble will return to Davidson after their tour of Virginia. The ensemble will perform in Covington, Va. on Tuesday. From Covington their tour continues by taking them to Lexington and Charlottesville, Va. on Wednesday. Thursday morning the students will go to nearby Monticello, famed home of the nation’s third president, after which they will continue to the final stop on their trip, Waynesboro, Va. On Friday the ensemble will return to Davidson.

The program that the Wind Ensemble will perform has been carefully chosen so that all types of music will be presented. Ranging from the Fenfere and Chorus of Buxtehude to the Finale from Shostakovich’s Fifth Symphony, there will be 19 selections.As the head of the Music Department. Since that time the instrumental group has been under the direction of Kenneth — At The College Union Peter Ustinov’s ROMANOFF AND JULIET A Comedy Starring Peter Sellers, Sandra Dee, and John Gavin. Wed. through Fri., Nights Ee oe from the faculty; Mrs. Louise Hampton and Mrs. Ann Maloney students Toby Bethea, Neal Bushoven, Bob Chumbley, Bill Denham, Joe Howell, and Bill Trotter; and Dr. William W. Goodykoontz, director of the Vagabonds.

Wind Ensemble Plans Tour To Old Dominion

Wind Ensemble, under the direction of Dr. Grier M. Williams, will begin a five-day tour with a performance Monday in Elkin and in Covington. Moore (1952-55), West (1955- ), and at present Williams. Williams has instituted many innovations in the instrumental program of the Music Department ranging from solo work and chamber groups to the Queens-Davidson Symphony held earlier this year. Classroom meetings and informal discussions. His public lecture will be on “Prophets, Priests and Politics.” For the student assembly he will speak on “The Stage of the Biblical Drama.”

A native of Liverpool, England. Baly was educated at the King's School, Worcester, and the University of Liverpool. He taught in France for a year, then joined the staff of the Jerusalem and East Mission, teaching in Amman, Haifa, and Jerusalem, becoming headmaster of St. George’s Upper School on the Arab side of Jerusalem. During the Arab-Jewish War, when the schools in Palestine were closed, he served for a year as the First Secretary for Laymen's Work with the World Council of Churches in Geneva, Switzerland. After Baly’s arrival in the United States in 1954, he was for two years Visiting Lecturer in World Christianity at St. George’s Episcopal Church in New York, and since 1956 has been on the faculty of Kenyon College. He is the author of a number of books and scholarly articles. His books include: The Geo-

Rotary President To Speak At Chapel

Nitish C. Laharry, of Calcutta, India, president of Rotary International, will speak during chapel period Monday, Feb. 11. The program of Laharry for this year emphasizes the need for people to develop their latent ability to be of service to others. “Kindle the spark within,” he urges, “for if you look within yourselves you will have taken the first step toward discovering your ability to become a fully integrated, service-minded individual.” Laharry took office as Rotary’s president on July 11. He is the first Asian to become the chief executive of the organization. He is an advocate of the High Court of Calcutta and a retired motion picture executive, and has had a long career as managing director of Columbia Films of India. Laharry was born in Calcutta, is a devout Hindu, and was graduated from the University of Calcutta with degrees in English and political science and economics. Laharry has been a Rotarian since 1926. He is a former member of the Rotary Club of Bombay, India, and is now a Rotarian of Calcutta. Rotary is a service club composed of 529,000 business and professional executives who belong to more than 11,400 Rotary clubs in 128 countries.

The New Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II and Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Rent a car the BUDGET Way, less per mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you need. We Feature Free Hotel and Airport Pickup and Delivery Service. 376-0213 Tryon St., Charlotte

Companion to the Bible, and Academic Illusion. The Danforth Visiting Lecturers project, sponsored jointly by the Danforth Foundation and the Association of American Colleges, is now in its sixth year. Its purpose is “to strengthen the intellectual, religious and cultural aspects of liberal education in the United States.”

Stroud And Miller Honor Recipients

Two young members of the Davidson faculty have been honored recently. Recipient of a Danforth Teacher Grant for 1963-64 is J. B. Stroud, III while political science instructor Eugene F. Miller has been invited by the Institute on Freedom and Competitive Enterprise to address its meeting next June in California. Miller, who told THE DAVIDSONIAN this week of his plan to leave the college at the end of the semester, will present a paper considering the philosophical problems involved in maintaining a free society as discussed by David Hume. Miller will teach at Furman University next year. The institute, at Claremont College in Claremont, Calif. has invited a number of young scholars to present papers on the general topic, “Problem Areas in Maintaining a Free Society”. Older professors will comment on the papers. “It will be an excellent opportunity to meet scholars of national and international reputation,” Miller predicted. “I look forward to it.”

Stroud, instructor of mathematics at Davidson was one of 40 faculty members selected from 461 nominations from colleges and universities across the country to receive a Danforth Teacher Grant for 1963-64. The Danforth award was established in 1954 to enable men and women, already serving as full-time faculty members, to complete programs of graduate study. It provides a year of graduate study in the university of the candidate’s choice with reappointment offered on a competitive basis.

A brand-new PEANUTS book! Wistful, delirious, foster father to birds, imitator of dinosaurs — America’s favorite pup is back as the conquering hero “SNOOPY, COME HOME” Charles M. Schulz Only $1 at your college bookstore. Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc.

Llewellyn hangs the Phi Beta Kappa charter in the Greek Honorary Room. It was recently

Charter Hunt Arouses Hill Detectives

By DAVE PUSEY Davidsonian Feature Writer

News Item: Professor Malcolm Lester has announced that the original charter of Davidson’s Phi Beta Kappa chapter has been re-discovered, after a long disappearance, in the safe of the College President. Lester also noted that the charter will take its place on the walls of the recently created Greek Honorary Room in Oak Row.

On the afternoon of Danny Carrell’s arrival in Atlanta for the final Rhodes Scholar interviews, President D. Grier Martin received a telephone call. The voice on the other end was harsh, embittered: “Now listen, Martin. We have reason to suspect that you don’t have a legitimate Phi Beta Kappa chapter at your institution.”

“Now let me say this about that...”

“Get off it, Martin. If you’ve really got a chapter, you've got to have a charter. Now produce that charter by nine o’clock tonight or all of your Phi Betes will be declared as bogus as Captain Pierce's cap pistol.”

“Well, we'll proceed with vigor...”

“Now let me say this about that...”

“Get off it, Martin. If you’ve really got a chapter, you've got to have a charter. Now produce that charter by nine o’clock tonight or all of your Phi Betes will be declared as bogus as Captain Pierce's cap pistol.”

“Well, we'll proceed with vigor...”

“Click.” Silence.

Minutes later, as the President finally stopped running madly around his desk, screaming incoherently, the clock struck four. When the chimes rang again an hour later, Martin was addressing faculty and administration.

“Linker, you check car trunks and glove compartments. Forget the liquor—it’s all yours if you find that charter. Stacks, don’t let a pile of laundry get out of your place without searching it from top to T-shirt. Do anything, man! Even rip off collar buttons! Great News! 2000 PAIRS ARE HERE WEEJUNS It’s been nip and tuck getting enough Weejuns, but now we have them - - - All sizes - - - Black, Antique Brown and Cordovan Brown Colors. $15.95 FREE PARKING Downtown — Third Floor and Park Road Shopping Center

“Mrs. Moore, you and Tammy check the dorms. Every square inch! If you find any toilet paper with Greek on it, it might be what we're looking for. Dole, check your team’s play book. It might be in there, somewhere between the Flying Wedge and the Statue of Liberty play. What’s that? I don’t care if your quarterbacks do say it’s all Greek to them, look anyway! Burgdorf, you do your part in this thing, too. Don’t forget my daughter graduates from high school this year and we've got to find a job for her somewhere. You could be replaced. What’s that, H. Edmunds? No, I doubt very seriously that it’s hanging on Pop Copeland’s store wall. Now has everybody got their assignments straight? Remember, whoever finds that charter gets an all expense-paid trip to the Statesville Artist Series; everybody else gets required Artist Series and coffee hour attendance. Dismissed!”

No one can deny that Professor Lester saved the day. However, some question has arisen as to his story of where he found the charter. He says it was dusted away in the Presidential vault, but it’s common knowledge that his assignment that day was to check fraternity spot boxes! It’s a question to consider. Did Chalmers Davidson really slip the charter into the Beta spot box thirty-five years ago, to be used by cribbing students ever since? Who's covering up, Cop Linker?

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI