a | { " little prov

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

HIGHLIGHTS * SIDELIGHTS

TOURNEY SHOULD BE AT COLISEUM

Don’t look now, but there may be a chance to have the Southern Conference basketball tournament at the Coliseum in Charlotte next year. Prospects aren't exactly rosy yet, but there are rumblings of discontent over the present setup at Richmond, which has a couple of serious drawbacks. The Southern Conference athletic commission has recently indicated that it will consider any new sites which are proposed, and Davidson Athletic Director Tom Scott is suggesting Charlotte as the most logical place.

Last year sports editor Steve Clark put out a column suggesting that the conference tourney be moved to Charlotte. This was at a time when prospects for such a move were dim, but Steve had seen the disadvantage of having the tourney at Richmond and wanted to get some action going to change it. We are in complete agreement with Steve and Dr. Scott in proposing that the tourney be held in Charlotte. There will continue to be discontent and dissatisfaction over where it is to be held until they move it to the Coliseum, which we believe that they will eventually have to do.

We say that the tourney will eventually be forced to move to Charlotte because it is the only place in the conference area that adequately satisfies all of the requirements: an adequate arena, ample accommodations, and a centralized location. On top of this, Charlotte is an area where the biggest crowds can be drawn. If the tournament was held in Charlotte we would venture to say that it would be played to capacity or near capacity crowds every night. Let’s move the tournament to the place best suited for it—Charlotte.

KEEP THE POOL OPEN

A few weeks ago we ran a column in which we protested the present situation as to the limited amount of time that the basketball courts were available to students. We also mentioned that this inability to use the facilities available applied to other parts of the gym also. Several students have protested to us this week about the difficulty of using the swimming pool, since provision is made for student use during the swimming season. This again raises the question of whether the pool was built for the student body use or exclusively for the swimming team. Time can be found for both to use the facilities and we wish the athletic department would recognize this. We also understand that the pool was closed during the whole exam period. What’s the use of building an expensive pool if it is not to be made useful?

CONFERENCE TOURNEY TICKETS

Tickets to the Southern Conference Tournament in Richmond from Feb. 28 to March 2 are on sale in the Athletic office now. The price is ten dollars for the three-night series.

Mermen Visit Ga For Three Meets

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Sports Staff Writer

Following a 55-36 loss to a strong Citadel Swimming Team on Monday, the Davidson mermen are now planning for a three-day trip to Georgia on Feb. 11, 12, and 13. State was the toughest team remaining on the ‘Cats’ schedule, and if they emerged victorious they have an excellent chance to finish with a 7-1-1 record. The ‘Cats took a 4-1-1 record into the State meet, and they have two matches remaining. They face Pfeiffer College on Feb. 21, and the University of Ga. on Feb. 23.

Commenting on the State match, Coach Charlie Parker said that the loss of two of the team’s star wrestlers, Billy Mills (167 lbs.) and Joe Parker (147 lbs.), due to injuries, will hurt the team considerably. Both Mills and Parker were undefeated, and until their injuries were both moving towards conference championships. In a match last Saturday the ‘Cats easily picked up their fourth win of the season by trouncing Emory University 29-3. The only loss suffered by the ‘Cat grapplers was in the 147 lb. class. Results of the match were as follows: 123 lb. — Tom Wright (D) decisioned Ben Branch; 130 lb. — Mike Bisard (D) pinned Jim Reeves (4:45); 137 lb. — Dick Wray (D) decisioned Goldman; 147 lb. — Edwards (E) decisioned Ben McCoy; 157 lb. — Joe Jones (D) pinned Herwick (1:53); 167 lb. — Bill Pridgen (D) pinned Mange (2:05); 177 lb. — Tom Day (D) decisioned Wakefield; Heavyweight — Russell Walls (D) pinned Kemp (4:47).

GETTING IN HIS WEEKLY EXERCISE is MIKE BISARD, DAVIDSON 130 pounder, busily pinning JIM REEVES from Emory in Saturday's match. Davidson won 29-3. (Staff Photo by Buck Lawrimore.)

That night no one on the University squad could stop Fred Hetzel. The 6’8” 220 lb. sophomore from Washington, D. C. poured in a record 17 field goals, and added 12 out of 15 free throws to set a new scoring record for Davidson basketball teams of 46 points, helping his team roll to an easy 112-93 victory.

Indoor Track Set For Big Five Meet

BY DENNY PHILLIPS
Sports Staff Writer

The Davidson College indoor track team will journey over to Chapel Hill Feb. 16 to participate in the fourth annual Big Five indoor track meet. The Big Five is composed of Davidson, Duke, N.C. State, U.N.C., and Wake Forest. Both varsity and freshmen will compete. Running and jumping for the ’Cats will be Paul Montgomery in the pole vault; Bob Cordle in the shot put; Alan Turner, Tom Watson, and Cordle in the 60-yard dash; Turner in the 70-yard low hurdles; Watson in the 440-yard dash; Keith Fraser in the high jump; John Heffner, Denny Phillips, and Tim Spiro in the mile run; Ronnie Reese and Phillips in the 880-yd. run; Chester Davis and Sterling Martin in the 2-mile run; and Cordle, Reese, Turner, and Watson in the mile relay.

The varsity already has one meet under its belt as they ran in the VMI Winter Relays last weekend in Lexington, Virginia. Although not in top shape this early in the season, the sprint-shuttle relay, composed of Cordle, Turner, Watson, and Tommy Worrall managed to come away with the second-place trophy.

Scoring Record Falls When Hetzel Puts In 46

BY FORREST ROLES
Sports Staff Writer

That night no one on the University squad could stop Fred Hetzel. The 6’8” 220 lb. sophomore from Washington, D. C. poured in a record 17 field goals, and added 12 out of 15 free throws to set a new scoring record for Davidson basketball teams of 46 points, helping his team roll to an easy 112-93 victory.

Not that this by itself wouldn’t qualify a player for Wildcat of the Week, Hetzel deserves it for far more. He now leads the Southern Conference in scoring (23.7 ppg.), and field goal percentage (54.2%) and is in the top ten in rebounds per game (12.8) and foul shooting percentage. He is this week’s Wildcat of the Week.

But Hetzel isn’t doing the job alone. On the court with him against Jacksonville were the two players who together with former ‘Cat great Hobby Cobb held the previous scoring record. Both tied the record of 39 last year, Jarman against George Washington and Holland against Mississippi College. Together this year they are averaging 97.9 points a game and pulling down an average of 164 rebounds a game, but during the Jacksonville game both players willingly fed Hetzel because he was hitting well, even though he was breaking their record.

Matmen, Basketballers Seek Best Season

State Match Crucial To Record 7-1-1 Season

BY TOM WRIGHT
Sports Staff Writer

Davidson's grapplers met North Carolina State this afternoon in a match which will probably determine whether they finish with the best wrestling season in Davidson's history. The match was held in Raleigh.

Basketball Team Seeks Second Win Over VMI

BY RICK SMITH
Sports Staff Writer

Tonight the Davidson Wildcats seek to improve their 5-3 conference record when they meet the Keydets of Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. The Keydets lost a thriller to Davidson, 62-64, here in Johnston Gym earlier this season.

It’s difficult to compare the teams on the basis of their records. The Keydets have wins over The Citadel 106-71 and Richmond 79-77. VMI has lost to West Virginia 74-86, VPI 70-Shatter a few more. 74, and William and Mary 71-80. The new: The Wildcats, although presently tied with VPI for second place in the Southern Conference, have had a hard time winning against conference foes. Four of Davidson's five conference victories have been by three points or less.

"I just can’t stop him," said a frustrated Roger Strickland as he ran by his bench early in a game that the Little All-American’s team was losing badly. That he just couldn’t stop Fred Hetzel was a fact noticed by a New York Knickerbocker scout who was at Davidson to scout him and ’Cat forward Bill Jarman. "It's a good thing the National Basketball League has a rule prohibiting the drafting of college players until the year which they graduate." That Knickerbocker scout walked away from Johnston Gymnasium with another name besides Bill Jarman and Roger Strickland.

Coach C. G. (Lefty) Driesell remarked, "These close ones have really generated the pressure for us this season, and you might say we've been lucky to win our share of them, though at times I've thought, and I think the team has felt, that we have not played our best ball when we've been against conference competition."

Another discomforting thought for Wildcat fans is the fact that there are more records which apparently will be broken. The present season record field goal percentage is 43.7% held by last season's team. That team also set the season record free throw percentage of 73.9%. This excitement is hitting 47.4% of their field goal attempts and 73.9% of their free throws.

Last Monday the Davidson quintet squeaked out its closest win of the year over a pressing, deliberate Citadel team, 50-49. "We got only four points from our guards," said Driesell. "It amounted to giving them permission to collapse their defense on our men under the basket."

"Our ball club is coming along nicely, but we need better scoring and defense from our guards. That's been our problem all year. We haven't found a consistently sound backcourt combination," the Wildcat mentor added.

Driesell will probably start Marcon and either Davidson or Beerman in the backcourt tonight. The ’Catfish will meet the University of Georgia, Georgia Tech, and Emory in three non-conference meets while on this trip. The Davidson Swimmers will return to the local pool to meet William and Mary in its second conference meet on Feb. 21.

"Depth," stated Dwight Shoe, Davidson's youthful mentor, "again proved to be our main weakness. However, I feel that not having a meet in seven weeks hurt the boys to some extent. The boys have really been putting out in every event of every meet. By the Southern Conference Meet in March, the team should be in good shape."

The Davidson Mermen are led by Senior Captain Carter Mebane, who took firsts in the 50 and 100 yard freestyle events; Mebane should make quite a showing at the Conference meet. Davidson's only other first was captured by Sophomore Jim Grey in the 500 yard freestyle.

Davidson Results:
200 Free: (2) Grey (4) Grant
50 Free: (1) Mebane (4) Campbell
200 Ind. Medley: (2) Hughes (3) Purkerson
Diving: (2) Jacobs
200 Fly: (2) McKeithen
100 Free: (1) Mebane (3) Campbell
200 Back: Downey
500 Free: (1) Grey (2) Grant (3) Alexander

The intramural basketball league began action Monday as six games were played. Only the Kappa Sigs, the league's defending champions, did not see action Monday. In Monday afternoon action, the Sigma Chis downed the Sig Eps, 42-20. Sophomore Tom James paced the victors’ attack with 13 points. The Independents used the fast break to full advantage and rolled by the Sigma Nus, 63-31. Benny Coxton hit 12 and Mark Dunn 11 to lead the winners. Sigma Nu sophomore Arthur Clark led all scorers with 16.

Monday night the Pikas clipped the Pi Kapps, 38-29, behind the 12-point performance of Keith Fraser. Phil Squier pumped in 24 points and received ample support from Bill Bankhead’s 13 as the Phi Delts whipped the ATO’s, 52-39. George King hit 17 and Paul Duvall 11 for the Taus. The Phi Gams showed impressive strength under the boards as they knocked off the SAE’s, 55-25. Freshmen Pack Hindsley and Johnny Little scored 14 each for the Gams, while Billy Jo Morgan led the SAE’s with 14.

Charlie Marshall hit a layup with 3 seconds remaining to culminate a fourth quarter KA rally as they nipped the Betas, 43-41. Rick Smyre hit 19 and Marshall had 18 to lead the KA’s, while Tommy Hamilton's 13 and Steve Kash’s 12 paced the Betas.

FRED HETZEL makes scoring look easy here as he goes up for another two-pointer against Richmond. HETZEL earned Wildcat of the Week honors for his 46-point performance against Jacksonville University.

Paul Montgomery's Vault Sets Sigma Delta Psi Mark
Paul Montgomery, a student from Newport News, Va., was recently informed by the national office of Sigma Delta Psi, national athletic fraternity, that he has been officially recognized as holder of the bar vault record for members of that fraternity. Montgomery's vault of 7' 11½" broke the old SDP record of 7' 8¼" by over three inches. He set this mark last fall and has been waiting since then for it to be nationally recognized.

Track Coach Heath Whittle, who is on the board of directors of SDP, was extremely pleased with Montgomery's record. He explained that only one other Davidson student has held a national record in SDP. This was Chris Bremer, who held the bar vault record for five years in the 1950s. Whittle further explained that to have their performance in any of the SDP events considered for a record, it is necessary to be a fully accredited member of a local SDP chapter.

Montgomery seems to be the type who likes heights because he is also a pole vaulter on the track team. Last weekend he attended the VMI relays and vaulted 12'. This mark was especially pleasing to Whittle since this was the first indoor meet of the season and Montgomery hasn’t pole vaulted any for two years.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE STANDINGS
Conference All Games
W L Pct. W L Pct.
W. Virginia 8 1 .889 14 5 .737
Va. Tech 5 3 .625 9 7 .737
Davidson 5 3 .625 13 6 .667
Wm. & Mary 6 5 .545 10 7 .588
G. Wash. 3 3 .500 5 10 .333
Furman 3 4 .429 8 10 .444
Va. Mil. 4 6 .400 4 9 .308
The Citadel 2 5 .286 2 14 .125
Richmond 3 8 .273 6 12 .333

Fox trot, twist...waltz, lindy...samba, mambo...cha-cha-cha...bend, dip...hop, step, turn...jump... whew... take a break...things go better with Coke. Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by: Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina.