Che Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
(PRO TENNIS TOUR HERE ON MARCH 4 See Page Three)

VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1963 NUMBER FIFTEEN

Somnolent Students Rise To Meet Suitcase Invasion

A sparsely attended Midwinters weekend is kicked off tonight with an 8 p.m. IFC concert by Stan Rubin and The Tigertown Five in Chambers auditorium.

“This is the smallest Midwinters that I can remember,” Dorm Superintendent Mrs. J. B. Moore reported this Wednesday. “The dorms are full, but there is only a small waiting list. And there is a waiting list only because some special campus guests are keeping girls in the dorms.”

The other IFC entertainment will be a concert by folk-singer Odetta in Chambers tomorrow night at 8 p.m. The IFC has scheduled no on-campus dances this weekend, so Lingle Manor plans to make up for the deficit tomorrow evening with a private square dance in the Morrison Room of the Union after the Odetta concert. Off-campus dancing is another matter. All the fraternities have after-parties scheduled to run into the early-morning hours. Only this time they're ‘after-concert parties.

Three groups of students may find the weekend hard to enjoy! Freshmen humanities students have a review scheduled for next Tuesday. The review was originally scheduled for tomorrow morning, but the faculty, perceiving the conflict, changed the day. The basketball team won't be partying much, either, if it wants to be in shape for its game with Georgia Southern tomorrow night in Statesboro, Ga. The team apparently couldn’t keep its mind on its game over Midwinters last year, and dropped a contest to Erskine in Gastonia. The track team is also a victim of conflicting schedules. It participates in the Big Five Track Meet tomorrow afternoon at Chapel Hill.

The weekend will close out Sunday afternoon with a chamber music concert in Hodson Hall at 4 by Derry Deane, Roger Drinkall, Keith Bryan, and Karen Keys. Vespers Sunday night centers on the Universal Day of Prayer observance sponsored by the YMCA.

Rubin and his Tigertown Five are a Dixieland jazz group that has grown from a group by the same name that he started in 1953 while a freshman at Princeton University. His group has appeared at Carnegie Hall and the Newport Jazz Festival, toured in Europe, and was the only American band to play at Grace Kelly’s wedding. Odetta has appeared at various night clubs around the country and in two motion pictures, “Cinerama Holiday” and “Sanctuary.” She has also produced a number of albums.

Woodsman Didn't Figure In Red Riding Hood's Fate
BY RICK von UNWERTH
Davidsonian Feature Writer

It was a cold, grey afternoon in February and Little Red Riding Hood stuck a mittened hand into one of the pockets of her polo coat. “I wonder how much farther to Gram’s,” she thought. Just outside the city limits of a tiny town, she spied a fun-looking truck stop, and in sore need of a breather, she pulled her little red Sprite off the highway.

Inside the inn, Red absorbed the homey warmth and her little red nostrils picked up on the spoor of frying bologna. The dancing lights of the Miller High Life sign over the counter made Red grin, and she ordered a short one. “Put a burger on me, too,” she told the lady, “with pickles and onion.”

“Onions aren’t cool, doll,” said a deep, lazy voice behind her. Red teased her forelock coyly and looked around. The Wolf eased out of a corner booth and shuffled over to her, with a big smile that showed good teeth. His dark mane was swept casually across his forehead.

“You look kinda like Kennedy,” she said, and giggled into a daintily poised hand.

“It’s a going thing,” he smiled. “But who are you?”

“Red Riding Hood,” she said. “I'm down from Winston to visit my Grandma. She's got mono, and I brought her a basket of ribs and some toddy material to help drive away the chill. She lives in a town called Davidson. Is that far from here?”

“No,” said the Wolf, “and your timing is terrific. I’ll lead you to the crone’s place later, but first let’s run over to a Greek lunchroom I know about. Swing season is in, and they’re our kind of people.”

Sensing an adventure, Red gave in. The Wolf seemed sharp enough, and Gram, though sweet and wealthy, was categorically a fink for social purposes.

* * *

His car was low and fast, and they were there in no time. He pulled up in front of a neat brick number, one of a string of same, each bearing a Greek legend.

“They're all alike,” she said.

“No, Doll,” said the Wolf. “This one is swing-oriented, far cooler than the multitude.” And they went in.

Through a haze of camel and maize she saw a smoky piano and a smoky pianist, two saxes, and a throbbing guitar. She felt a wave of frenetic rhythm and looked up at the Wolf.

“The skin man is tough,” she said. “You were right—I’m pretty much moved by the whole scene. What’s the occasion?”

“Dance Weekend,” he said. “Dances are out, but the party runs till Sunday. You game, doll?”

“Take my hand,” she said, “I'm a stranger in paradise.”

The Wolf fell to with a bottle of joy and they got underway forthwith. Red was straight, with smooth twist action and a facile command of the UT.

“You're cool, Red,” said the Wolf. And so she was.

* * *

A little later, a day or so, Red gave him her little grin. “Wolf,” she said, “you know the script, and I gotta split for Grandma's shortly. But let's twist again, after the manner of last summer's stuff.”

But lo, the Wolf's face assumed a pallor.

“That Fox popcorn, Wolf?” she said, wise and with a tactful cover gambit.

“Yes,” said the Wolf.

(Continued On Page Four)

Nobel Winner To Speak On Viruses And Cancer

Dr. Wendell M. Stanley, virologist and Nobel prize winner of the University of California, will be Davidson’s third 1962-63 Reynolds Lecturer. Set to speak four times in public presentations, he will also talk informally with students and student groups Feb. 18-19.

Stanley's first talk will be a public lecture delivered at 8:15 Monday night in Chambers Auditorium. He will speak again at chapel at 10:10 Tuesday morning. A seminar at 4 p.m. Tuesday in the college’s biology department will also be open to the public and at this time Stanley is expected to go more into the possible relationship of virus and cancer. Stanley will also speak to Davidson's 1-2-6 Club members in Charlotte at 12:30 p.m. Tuesday. At this luncheon talk, doctors and scientists are again being invited by the 1-2-6 Club membership to hear the visitor.

Stanley is noted for his work in isolating viruses, developing a centrifuge-type influenza vaccine, and is currently in the midst of virus-cancer research.

“We are extremely fortunate to be able to have Dr. Stanley on the Davidson campus for this visit to the state, and we would welcome other men in medicine and biology from over the state who wish to hear Dr. Stanley,” said Dr. Olin W. Puckett of the Davidson biology department.

Stanley attended Earlham College in Richmond, Ind., received his MS degree from the University of Illinois, his PhD from Harvard, and the LLB from the University of California. He has studied also at Yale and Princeton and holds honorary degrees from the University of Paris, Indiana University, the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, and Mills College.

Stanley has held posts with the National Advisory Cancer Council of the U.S. Health Service and the National Committee for Medical Research. He is chairman of the section on biochemistry of the National Academy of Sciences.

Trustees Congregate For Regular Meeting

The Davidson College Board of Trustees will meet Wednesday and hear reports from President D. Grier Martin on the general progress of the college since the last Board meeting, held in May. Of particular interest is the faculty oath issue.

ROTARY PRESIDENT Nitish La Harry preaches his belief in the “spirit of man” to the student body of a “Christian” college.

Hindu Talk To Descendants Of Calvin
BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Public should appear on the manuscript itself.Committees will present reports covering buildings and grounds, education, finance, religious and social life, and student health. A special Purpose Committee will make its report to the Trustees concerning a reevaluation and re-statement of the “purpose of Davidson College.” Martin, finance committee chairman, mentioned that the college has recently received a sizable cash contribution, the donor and amount of which will be announced after the official report has been given to the Trustees. A joint committee of faculty members and Trustees will make recommendations supporting the approval of new faculty members and the granting of honorary degrees. Only the Trustees are authorized to take such action.

The Trustees will be asked to approve plans to significantly enlarge the facilities of the college union. “It’s been obvious for quite a while the union isn’t adequate for a student body of a thousand,” Robert Curry, college business manager, stated.

The little Oriental here for last Monday's assembly program was sharper than a brier in the woods at ROTC summer camp. He began by issuing some administration about the college’s achievements; but by the time he left the coffee hour in the Union, he also left the impression with many that he knew what was going on in the world. Nitish C. LaHarry came to Davidson with some impressive credentials. He is the first non-Caucasian ever to be elected president of Rotary International, that vast organization of businessmen that has 11,400 clubs in 128 countries with a membership of 53,000. He is a native of India, where he held the office of manager for Columbia Pictures in Calcutta for 25 years, before retiring in 1959.

It was evident at the beginning of his address that some members of the administration had talked with him about the many “accomplishments” of Davidson and left the facts very unclear in his mind. For instance, he complimented us for giving Woodrow Wilson to the world when actually we only gave something to him—a case of T.B. It should be brought out for all freshmen who are still steeped in orientation beliefs that the late President left after his first year here. And he then ended up in the White House. It is also untrue that Davidson “has given more Rhodes scholars to the world than any institution in the country,” as Mr. LaHarry so flatteringly put it; Davidson can be justly proud of standing in the top ten of the liberal arts colleges that can claim Rhodes scholars.

But when the little Oriental finished his attempt to flatter his audience, he began to delve into the realm of mankind and the world. And it was in this region that LaHarry proved himself a master. He made many provocative statements such as, “This community (the U.S.) is bounded by the entire world despite natural and artificial barriers.” He further emphasized the preceding statement with the words, “The gospel of knowing one another as much as we possibly can is the only way we can realize the gospel of humanity. At no time in the history of the world is international understanding more important to you and me, the people of the free world.”

LaHarry emphasized that the main Rotary goal could be found in their motto: “Service above self.” And truly, as he made clear over and over again, this devout Hindu believes in the spirit that is in man. He made mention of this spirit many times in his assembly talk and afterward in his informal discussion with students. But the little man with the quiet voice who believes in mankind also has a pinch of steel spun into his backbone. He made this clear when he commented about India's apparent change from neutralism to the Western camp, “The trend now seems to be that we'll have to take sides in the cold war.” He said that he would be willing to fight to preserve the free way of life found in his country and the United States. He feels that it is impossible for the Communists to make much peaceful headway in India because “the people are too individualistic.”

In regard to student questions from the floor after his assembly talk, LaHarry showed that he could readily think on his feet. He commented on everything from the caste system in India to the mythical “sacred cow.” He said that rural education would eventually stamp out the caste system which continues to exist in isolated areas because of ignorance and custom. And he defended India's position in Goa by saying, “Isn't everything relative in the world? Why blame us for taking a natural and logical step when the majority of people in that section (Goa) wanted it?”

Last Monday Davidson had the pleasure of meeting a truly remarkable man, this man that is not found too often in the world today. He is a man who, like Christ, believes in man’s inward spirit. And at the same time, he is a man who is willing to fight bitterly for a free way of life in which this spirit can be developed.

The college hopes to gain additional kitchen and cafeteria space by extending a wing south of the union. The wing would house a consolidated facility for the present student store, textbook store, paperback book store, and game room. A lobby would connect the new store with the dining room. This would be available for food service needs. “An architect has been working on the project, but the plans are not yet complete enough to be let out for bids,” Curry reported. The Trustees will be presented with the plans as they presently exist, in addition to a mention of possible alternatives.

Dr. J. McDowell Richards will again preside at the semi-annual meeting of the Trustees. Richards will also speak at the Feb. 18 student assembly.

Faculty Queried On Christian Oath

The faculty expressed its opinion Tuesday in its monthly meeting on the long-embattled oath required of all full professors upon their inauguration. But the results will be kept secret until President D. G. Martin can present them to the trustees next Wednesday. In other significant action, the faculty voted to change the resolution which limits fraternities to one official function a semester. The new rule permits a fraternity to have unlimited official functions in a semester; but, as in the past, such functions must be chaperoned by members of the faculty and administration.

The faculty was not polled in a simple manner by which they could vote for or against the oath. Rather, a questionnaire was passed to each person at the meeting which contained several alternatives concerning the oath. THE DAVIDSONIAN learned the content of four of the alternatives, which ranged all the way from making the present oath stronger to doing away with it completely.

Heading the list was the proposal to make the oath stronger in its present form. Secondly, there was a proposal to keep the oath exactly as it is now and continue to have full professors take it during the annual commencement when they are inaugurated. A third alternative proposed is one which appears to be in the middle of the two extremes. This proposal would change the place where the oath is taken and the people to whom it would be administered.

(Continued On Page Four)

Writers Compete To Win Bell Prize

Competition for the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing will begin next week, and entries must reach some member of the English Department by Monday, April 8. This year’s award carries a cash prize of $75.00 for the winner. The winner, together with honorary recognition to other ranking contestants, will be announced at student assembly in conjunction with the annual address provided by the Memorial Fund. The judge for the 1963 contest will be Reynolds Price.

Each entrant must comply with the following rules:
1. Any regularly enrolled student of Davidson College is eligible to compete.
2. All entries must be the original work of their respective entrants and may fall in any recognized category of creative writing: viz., essay, short story, drama, poetry, etc.
3. A student may submit entries in as many different categories as he wishes, but he may submit one entry only in each category with the exception of poetry. In poetry, the student may enter one poem or a sequence of poems; if he submits more than one poem he must designate them as one unit and so enter them.
4. All entries must be typed, double spaced, and appear on one side of the paper only.
5. The name of the writer must not appear on the manuscript itself. Each entry must be accompanied by a sealed envelope containing the writer’s name and the title of the entry. The title of the entry must appear on the outside of the envelope.

Strings, Flute Echo In Sunday Concert

The Davidson College music department will present Keith Bryan, flutist, Derry Deane, violinist, Roger Drinkall, cellist, and Karen Keys, pianist, in a free concert of chamber music at 4 p.m., Sunday, Feb. 17, in Hodson Hall. Graduates of Eastman School of Music, the husband-wife duo team, Keith Bryan and Karen Keys, has won acclaim in extensive concert tours in both America and Europe. They have appeared with major orchestras on both continents as soloists. Violinist Deane, wife of Drinkall, is also a graduate of Eastman School of Music, while Drinkall is a Curtis Institute of Music graduate. The duo teams will present works by Boccherini, Prokofiev, Ravel, and Bernhard Heiden.

Also on the music calendar is the Western Division of the North Carolina High School Music Contest Festival. Tomorrow, Feb. 16, instrumental competition will take place, with Dr. Grier Williams in charge. On the following Saturday, there will be vocal competition under Prof. Donald Plott.