FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1963

Side Lights!
BY RICK LOWERY

SUNSET... Homecoming’s gone; so is the soccer team; there is no football game this weekend (excuse me freshmen); and the weather's getting colder. As the winds blow and the leaves brown, the fall sports seem to have almost drifted away like the last dark blue cloud of daylight. But while the autumn sports near a close, the winter sports are beginning to demand more attention. The basketball team enters its third week of practice, not altogether unnoticed. The indoor track team has been running outdoors for most of the semester. And two other squads have been at it two weeks unnoticed. These two teams are, of course, the swimming and wrestling teams. But practice isn’t for the spectator and doesn’t make very good reading. So against this background, a few things that entered my mind this week.

AIN'T GOT NO HOME... With the reality of the indoor sports upon the student body and with the approach of the indoor inter-fraternity sports, when will the general student body be able to use the gym? The same problem presented itself last year and no workable solution was found. Another winter is here and the prospects of student use of the gym are even less than they were last year. This is a problem that can only be solved through the action of the student body, but the student body can only act through its representative groups. For this reason I would like to see the IMAC look into the possibility of opening the gym for student use at night. The IMAC is not the only student group that could attempt to solve this problem. Although the limited use of the gym is not a major problem of the Davidson student body, this problem offers a concrete situation where the Student Council could improve conditions for the student. For several years, student governing officials have campaigned and orated about the worthwhile functions of the Student Council. In all too many instances these functions have had little direct effect upon the majority of the students. Here, I think, is an opportunity for the Student Council to accomplish something that more than just a handful can appreciate. The solution of such a problem also seems to fall within the area of many of those service clubs on campus whose reason for being is to “serve.” Again I say perhaps this problem is too trivial (I hope not too practical) for any of those busy organizations. I hope not.

PLAUDITS... The flickerball players and spectators have generally had only praise for the way the IMAC has run this year’s program. I would like to add mine. The season was completed with a minimum of confusion (schedules written and delivered consistently) and a maximum of simplicity (the only serious dispute all year was worked out by the two teams, and there were few if any game cancellations). I would like to make two suggestions. First, eliminate the Tuesday games. Although this would lead to a longer season, most teams complained that these games were often played in darkness and long after the dinner hour. The second suggestion is a more formal codification of the playing rules which aroused questions throughout the year. Again, congratulations.

THE WINNER... Few will argue that this year’s Kappa Sigma flickerball team was as good as last year. However, even fewer will argue that it was the top team in the league this year. In finishing the season undefeated (not undefeatable) the Kappa Sigs extended their three-year record to 34 wins and two defeats. Since the birth of flickerball in 1951 when the KA’s won on the final day, no team has held such a stranglehold over the number one spot. Whether this domination will continue will have to wait until next year. The winner and still champion—this year—the Kappa Sigs.

TOPS... In a rather disappointing Homecoming tie last week, Benny Coxton turned in two touchdowns, one of which came on a 90-yard punt return. You'll have to pardon me for saying he wasn’t the outstanding player on the field. Earl Cole completing 11 passes and making several outstanding defensive plays once again caught this writer’s eye as the most impressive ball player on the field.

“YOU JUST HACK ME OFF”... One other thing caught my attention Saturday. Just put it down to personal dislikes, but it bugs me. Nearby in the stands a gentleman (and I know he was because he wore a name tag proclaiming him to be an alumnus) exclaimed in a raised tone of voice (a microphone wouldn't have helped) that one of Davidson's players “had stomach problems,” that is—no guts. The player goes unnamed, he played both ways and the inference that he is a coward has gone unnoticed for four years. But I guess it takes a “real” fan to spot something like that. Frankly I never noticed; all I could think of was an old Durwood Settles joke that goes...

The Hub: Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

THE DAVIDSONIAN

KAPPA SIG FLICKERBALL CHAMPS HAM IT UP. From left to right: Tommy Reams, John McKinley, Mac Morris, Eddie Earle, Rick Jelks, Buddy Lowery and Larry Compton. In the rear — Joe DuBose, Arnie Goodstein and Howard Arbuckle. (Staff Photo by Chatterjee)

Kappa Sigs Sweep IMAC Flickerball With 12-0 Mark

Flickerball ended this week and so did the hopes of twelve teams as the Kappa Sigs won their third straight flickerball title and extended their winning streak to 30 games. Led by returning all-stars Rick Lowery, Buddy DuBose and Eddie Earle, the Kappa Sigs swept through their twelve-game slate undefeated. All was not as easy; at least five teams, notably the KA's, Sig Eps and Sigma Chi’s had a good shot at knocking off the undefeated champions. In each of these games, The Snappers roared back to overcome a deficit late in the game. Leading scorer for the Sigs was end Gross Compton who personally totaled over 100 points. Manning the other end was Howard Arbuckle whose last-second clutch catches resulted in two wins. The remainder of the Sig offensive power was shouldered by sophomore Tommy Reams, freshman Joe Jelks and senior Tommy Whitley.

FINAL FLICKERBALL STANDINGS
Kappa Sig 12-0
KA 10-2
Phi Gam 9-3
Beta 8-4
Phi Delt 8-4
Sigma Chi 8-4
ATO 7-5
Ind. 4-8
SAE 4-8
Sigma Nu 3-9
Sig Ep 2-10
PIKA 2-10
Pi Kapp 1-11

The defensive team’s strength lay in the unsung performances of rusher Bones McKinley, center linebacker “P” Morris and halfback Arnie Goodstein. Although this year’s champions were neither overpowering on offense nor on defense, they managed to combine these two phases of the game to score more points than any of their opponents. Strongest competition for the Sigs was provided by the KA’s who lost but two games—one to the Sigs in the last twenty-five seconds. This year’s league was probably better balanced than any in recent memory. Each team had at least one or more outstanding players. This was verified last Wednesday night as the 1963 flickerball all-star team was selected by the ballots of the flickerball players themselves. Five teams, KA, Kappa Sig, Phi Delt, Independents, and Beta, placed two or more men on the squad, the former two placing three. Seven teams placed at least one man. Repeaters from last year are Captain Rick Lowery (polling the most votes), Haynes Kelly, and Rick Smyre. It is interesting to note that no sophomores were named and even more unusual, a freshman started the action in the first game.Going, Buddy DuBose jog, went Friday with two goals to bring his season total to five. Brakel scored in the first quarter on a penalty kick called against an Appalachian player who deflected the ball from the goal with his hands. During the second half, Brakel made good on a free kick outside the penalty circle as he neatly arched the ball over the heads of the defense into the cage.

Coxton Counts Twice In 14-14 Tie With PC
BY JIM BEASLEY

Last Saturday was a beautiful afternoon for football. The Wildcats turned in a spirited game, beating the Presbyterian College team in every department, except the score. Still pursuing victory, the 'Cats managed a 14-14 tie—still a poor substitute for a win. A capacity crowd was on hand expecting to see a good game, and they got one. Benny Coxton, converted from quarterback to running back, provided much of the excitement. He made the second quarter by returning a P.C. punt 90 yards for the first Davidson touchdown. In addition to the punt return, he rushed 12 times for 73 yards to carry off ground gaining honors, threw several passes, and caught one pass himself for 19 yards. It is certain he will see more duty at the new position for the remainder of the season.

Davidson was penalized 65 yards against 27 for P.C. Several of these were poor decisions and they hurt the 'Cats badly. The most expensive call was in the Wildcats' final drive. Earl Cole passed to Billy Mills on the P.C. 30. The official ruled Mills was out of bounds; then a Davidson player told him, “That was the lousiest call I’ve ever seen.” Whereupon the official called a personal foul, a 15-yard penalty. According to Coach Bill Dole, two of the four officials were from the Carolina booking office due to P.C. not being a conference member. One non-conference official apologized after the game for his mistake, shown clearly by the game films.

Coach Dole was well pleased with the team’s effort. The 'Cat defense, ground and air, was generally tight, and the offense, rejuvenated by Coxton’s running and a new shotgun offense, was sparkling. Earl Cole, running most of the Wildcat attack, passed 17 times, completing 10 for 100 yards. Top receivers were Mills, four for 41 yards, and Steve Heckard, two for 19 yards. The team has an open date this week. All players are expected to be in good shape for the Nov. 9 game here against Lehigh. The remaining schedule includes William and Mary at Williamsburg Nov. 16 and Wofford here on Nov. 23.

VMI Overcomes Davidson 22-33 In Cross Country

The winds died down in the Piedmont; the afternoon sunshine brought the thermometer up to 50 degrees. As the gun sounded, 16 representatives of Davidson and VMI departed from the base of the soccer field in a four-mile test of endurance. At the finish, it was visiting VMI who carried away the most glory with a 22:33 win over Davidson’s talented cross-country squad. In fact, the first three men to cross the line wore the Cadet colors: Jack Fraser led the pack with a time of 21:44. The first red-and-black clad runner to climb the hill to the finish line was Captain Ronny Otts, who made the second-best time of his previous best game with a time of 22:40. He was followed four seconds later by Andy Barrow. Winner in his last outing, Denny Phillips finished a distant ninth. Almost everybody on the Davidson squad ran the best race of their college careers. Commented one participant, “It was just a matter of two good teams meeting and one happened to be better.”

The freshmen, on the other hand, won their meet handily with a familiar Dean-Sjogren finish, taking the first five places. The 'Kittens’ final margin was 15-40. Bob Dean continues to look strong and could well become one of the best distance men in the annals of Davidson track history. Little Bob Sjogren, at the same time, is always among the top three with an unusual display of determination and guts. Of the latter commodity, Sjogren seems to have an unlimited supply. Next Monday, Coach Heath Whittle’s squad goes to Raleigh for the state cross-country meet. Without taking any chances, one can easily predict a respectable showing for the red-and-black.

Kittens Seek Second Win In Tilt With Gardner-Webb
BY BOB STRAUSER

Tomorrow night the Davidson Wildkittens, in their third appearance of an abbreviated football season, take on Gardner-Webb at Cherryville. The 'Kittens will be facing a well-coached, hard-nosed football team in their junior college opponents. Major Robert Pierce, head coach of the freshmen, expected “nothing fancy” from Gardner-Webb—“Just a rough ball game, period.” In preparing for the game, the freshmen have been sharpening their passing attack. Major Pierce noted, “Our strategy for The Citadel game was to open up the defense with the passing and try to move on the ground.” In the process of opening up the defense, the 'Kittens scored two touchdowns through the air and completed five of six passes. The aerial attack could well be the difference in the game tomorrow night.

Stalwart of the 'Kitten ground game, halfback Jim Phipps, has a shoulder injury and may not be able to play the entire game. On the brighter side of the personnel picture, Major Pierce has found a blocking end in Jim Richardson, a transfer from Wake Forest. Gardner-Webb doesn't play a better defensive game than The Citadel, but the element of surprise, an important factor in upsetting the Cadet freshmen, will be gone in tomorrow's clash. Pierce would like to see a large Davidson contingent journey to Cherryville (80 miles away) for the game. He noted in closing, “I can promise a good game on the field and some pretty girls in the stands.”

8 a.m. calculus...late rush...arrive...quiz...Eng...read...write...correct...Psych...psychotic...neurotic...Pavlov...bell...lunch...whew...pause...Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina