FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Frolics Poll Shows Dating Druthers

BY RICK VON UNWERTH
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

Stamina, physical appeal, personality, and at least a passing interest in sex should set the tone for Frolics dates, if Monday’s post-chapel poll is any indication. At least one-third of Davidson's Don Juans expect to implement the natural environment of a pollinated Piedmont spring in their weekend ventures. Sporting romps at Lake Norman will fill out the weekend for a majority of the group: “Because I like her and she knows me well enough to let me make out with her,” he writes, expecting a weekend under optimum conditions.

One scrappy fellow requires “amiability, affection, and attractiveness” of a good date. He plans to escort a girl this weekend who “possesses none of the above qualities—it's a challenge to try to develop them,” he asserts bravely.

A good deal of boasting and some rather ambitious programs were revealed in the balloting. If even a minority of the projected activities pan out, student exploits could keep the Executive Committee, the WCTU, and the Federal Courts hopping for weeks to come.

In spite of the splendid opportunity for tongue-in-cheek drollery, enough incorruptible students participated in the poll to afford THE DAVIDSONIAN the luxury of a handful of edifying generalizations. “Good physical appearance” appeared in nearly 70 percent of the serious answers, expressed in varying forms. Personality was the runner-up in the desirable qualities category and congeniality placed third, followed closely by a concerted plea for good make-outs. Intelligence got honorable mention.

The girls here this weekend received their bids for a variety of reasons, ranging from the sublimely pure to the unmentionably lewd. “I think I may be in love with this girl,” was the cautious reply on one ballot. Another student aimed for compatibility, inviting his date because “she is fairly good-looking and has a nasty, sarcastic, dirty little mind.” The most ingenious student by far probably reveals the deep-down motivation of a majority of the Romantics, with sallies to the mountains, picnics, woodsy little strolls, and beach trips following in that order. During this phase of the moon, grunion-running is apparently impractical: only two hardies defended the sport.

The gamut of attitudes expressed included almost insupportable cockiness and dismaying pessimism. “I want a real ‘juker’,” came one smirky reply, “a girl who likes to dance, swing, drink, grub.” Some were less exacting, however, resigning themselves to insipidity. “She was easy to contact and would be likely to come,” said one. Another equally unenthusiastic reply ended on a parenthetical note of optimism: “She is very cute-looking, very intelligent, and I did not know anyone else to ask. (I hope she likes to raise hell.)”

Several erstwhile balloters called the collective values of the Davidson student body into serious question. In defense of his own platonic approach, one observer opined that “though I feel that dance weekends afford an excuse to get together, I feel that more than pleasure is required to justify the time.” This view received support in another reply, accompanied by an admonition in anticipation of this survey's findings: “Don’t think that all Davidson students are looking forward to this weekend because there will be or a possibility of libidinal gratification. Some regard this as a good break from studies and an opportunity for good fellowship.” A sobering thought...

MISS WOOKIE WORKMAN
Kappa Sigma

MRS. MARILYN KNOX
Phi Gamma Delta

MRS. CATHY PLUNKETT
Phi Delta Theta

MRS. ANN KASH
Beta Theta Pi

‘Just-Spring’ Fling Before

MISS RELA ANDERSON
Sigma Alpha Epsilon

MISS SHAROLYN HOOSE
Sigma Phi Epsilon

MISS SANDY LANEHART
Alpha Tau Omega

MISS SALLY WILSON
Kappa Alpha

MISS BECKY NEWSOME
Pi Kappa Phi

MISS ANN PRINCE
Sigma Nu

MISS BO MILNER
Pi Kappa Alpha

MRS. JAN HART
Sigma Chi

Couples Discover Blissful Solitary Balm

BY JOHN BAUM

The black Rambler slowly wound its way up the steep ascent mile after curving mile. But finally we rounded the last curve. Here we were at last, in the late afternoon on top of Grandfather Mountain. It was the last Sunday in March. Earlier in the week Steve, my roommate, and I had decided to go to the mountains with dates. The girls had brought the food: cookies, mints, apples, marshmallows, and hamburgers. And here we were at last — on the top, alone.

Two large rocks forming a “V” provided a natural spot for our fire. A piece of rusty tin wedged between the cool, gray rocks formed a makeshift grill. Soon the hamburgers were cooked and eaten. The bulging sack of plump, white marshmallows was opened. In a few minutes two straightened coat hangers held several of these marshmallows roasting over the glowing coals of the fire. All the food seemed to have vanished. More wood was added to the dying fire, and we settled down to enjoy the approaching springtime evening.

She was cushioned by the hood of my blue sweatshirt. Her head rested lightly on my shoulder. Above, fleecy clouds tinted pink by the setting sun slowly glided along from one horizon to the other. The silhouette of a blooming dogwood swayed gently as the perennial spring breezes continued their lonesome journey from nowhere to nowhere. The reddish-amber light of the fire caused the barely visible objects surrounding us to assume both shape and form. Paper plates splotched with mustard and ketchup lay scattered over a large flat rock which we had used as a table. The charred remains of a marshmallow clung to the end of one of the coat hangers which lay nearby. A reflection of the fire off the metal corner of the portable radio caught my eye.

As the evening floated the lulling strains of “Tammy,” “Fascination,” and “Love is a Many-Splendored Thing.” She raised her head to speak. Her dark brown eyes reflected the dancing yellow flames. Her smoke-scented black hair fell carelessly around her smooth forehead and satin-soft cheeks. Her slightly moistened lips glistened in the light caused by the fire. “It's so peaceful up here, isn’t it?” she whispered in a low tone. “So peaceful. At times like this it makes you wonder why there has to be strife, war, destruction. Why can’t people live together without fighting?”

The dogwood continued its swaying. The fragrant odor of the dogwood blossoms hung in the air like the mist over a tumbling waterfall. “As long as there are two people in the world I guess there'll always be a chance for peace,” I murmured, my voice trailing off into the spring stillness. “Yes, I guess you're right,” she replied softly. It was as if we were suspended above the world of strife, the world of death, the world of destruction. For the moment we had escaped from that world. And a wonderful moment it was.

Her head once again came to rest on my shoulder. The murmur of the wind, the barking of an old dog, and the plaintive coo of a mourning dove broke the peaceful calm. “You know, sometimes I wonder about this thing we call ‘life’,” I said. “We try to delve into its hidden meanings and all that, but if a person is happy in the truest sense of the word, what more is there to try to understand? The catch comes, of course, when one man’s pursuit of happiness conflicts with the same pursuit of another. This leads to further misunderstanding, war, and...”

“Oh, let's don’t use that word any more,” she whispered strongly. “It seems so out of place, up here.” As it grew darker I could see in the distance a few lone lights flickering against the darkening hillside. They seemed like hostile eyes attempting to intrude and by their intrusion destroy our tranquil atmosphere.

“John, I expect we had better be goin’,” she whispered after a while. “We have to be in at 11:30.” No one wanted to leave, but finally we managed to get started. She helped me put out the fire. We kicked dirt on it. “Let's leave one coal burning,” she said, “for good luck. We'll have to come back here again.” As we walked away we stopped momentarily...and glanced back at the fire. All was black except for that one glowing coal. Steve drove back. Slowly we came down the winding mountain road. It was warm in the car. We talked in low tones about lots of things. We heartily agreed on one thing: there would never be another.

Flushed Faces Reveal Onset Of Spring Fever
BY SIDNEY L. FARRAR

Spring Interlude at a Liberal Arts College for Men Founded by Presbyterians — Woodrow Wilson Studied Here. Winter's gone and the snows have melted, except that there wasn’t any snow this year, to speak of, and winter wasn’t love and sunshine and you think of God and how wonderful life really is until you remember that they've got a hot one on at the Fox and you've got to borrow your fraternity brother's car somehow. Gimme two beers, Hattie, and did you know there's a beautiful little patch of flowers growing wild out where we play softball... Spring! Ahhh... (with gradual crescendo)... ahhh SPRING! Noticeable enough to be a win.

The Fall Disenchanted Frolies: A ‘Flying-Horse Folly’
BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Spring—the nameless primeval chant, the distant stomp of a cleft foot, the dimly heard cry of lost revels; April is the cruelest month. And about inevitable cruelties one may easily be maudlin or bitter, or one may easily try escape. The rising sap and libido, the recurring and dutiful cruelty of April we quench in a flood of Frolics. To the impartial and the unemotional Springless individuals, the whole pageant must seem ridiculous, a gigantic farce, a flamboyant flying-horse folly. The big circle of conventional coolness moves slowly around, up and down to the tinsel twanging of Zodiacs and Turchords. In a dirty corner, life may go on, without the benefit of convention or disguise, but that is not important to those grasping after the elusive brass ring. The street dance is over, the after-parties are over, breakfast and sleep and the Four Saints are over, goodbye is over on an interminable Sunday afternoon—but the madcap ride continues, and each in his own way conceals the rebirth of Spring love-hate in the cruelest month.

Interesting people waiting for something to come for many other than being asked, I neatly tucked in and you meet the maternity ward that ineffable ve born. There she is (towards, of course, chance of the back there something behind her eyes. Another is usually. You meet yourself, if the truth is true. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young, twenty, and does it really make a difference whether Love or Hate would they moan from the other about to be born. The person you may meet is someone you saw drinking wine. It happens suddenly like spilling your drink on someone who jostles you. You are young,