PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1963

Side Lights
BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

TAKEN FROM THE TUBE...
After many seasons of television watching, I recognized a dramatic line that must be a television truth—it’s used often enough.
If it were Dr. Ben Casey he would say, “Look I don’t tell you how to run your business, don’t
tell me how to practice medicine;” or, if it were Sam Benedict he’d say, “I don’t tell you how to
practice medicine don’t tell me how to practice law.” If this kind of reasoning is a truth for the characters
of the television world, it certainly doesn’t apply to the real world of how to run a football team.

Since sometime late in the first quarter of last Friday’s football game, just about everyone remotely connected with Davidson College
has become an expert on football who believes he should run the team. The “Monday-morning quarterbacking” and the “second guess”
are probably as much a part of watching football as anything else. Unfortunately, it has very little to do with
playing the game.

If a vote were taken among the now-blossoming horde of football experts in the Charlotte area to determine whether or
not to kick a field goal on fourth down and less than one yard to go against Catawba, I imagine
the vote would be nearly unanimously, no. I’ve been asked if I would have ordered this field goal. Well, sitting
in the stands Friday or at home on Sunday afternoon my reaction would be to say, no I would not.
But fortunately, I did not have to make that decision on the field nor has it been my profession to
coach football teams for a number of years. I am hardly an expert nor are most of the people who
have sounded their opinions the past few days. Yet, the greatest part of this week seems to have been spent
musing over the sanity and competence of the coach who called the play.

Coach Bill Dole has been coaching football since 1940. During this period he has coached in high school, at East
Carolina where he was named Coach of the Year (1950) in the North State Conference, and at Davidson. His overall
coaching record is 149-105-7. His profession is coaching football. Last Friday night, Coach Dole made the decision to attempt a
field goal. Why did he make this decision? Coach Dole readily admits that he believes in the field goal as
an offensive weapon. He bases this belief on two reasons. First, a team which drives inside an opponent’s five yard
line and fails to score suffers a psychological let-down, while the other team receives a psychological lift. The second reason
is one of past experience: He holds that the toughest place on the field to score from is inside the
opponent’s five yard line. (Remember, last Friday that Davidson attempted to score from the one yard line on fourth down
and failed. The play was subsequently nullified by an offside penalty against Catawba). And yet failure to score from there
often determines the outcome of the game.

A recent example of this took place at Davidson last year at...

’Cats Seek To Rebound At Expense Of Citadel
BY JIM BEASLEY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

If Davidson can play 60 minutes of football like their first 39 against Catawba last Friday night, they have a
fine chance of opening the home season with a victory over The Citadel. If they play as they did the
last third of the Catawba game, it will be a very long Saturday afternoon for the Wildcats.

Up until the last of the third quarter, the ‘Cats dominated play. They punched holes in the Catawba line and
bombed them through the air for 241 yards. The Indians were contained so tightly they had only gained 77 total
yards with six minutes left in the third quarter.

Late in the first quarter Davidson sustained a drive to the Catawba one yard line, where on fourth down the
Catawba line held firmly. When a penalty against Catawba gave the ‘Cats a second chance, Coach Bill Dole elected to
try a field goal. He later explained, “We had made a try from the one and failed. If we went
for the touchdown and were stopped again it would give Catawba a considerable boost in morale. In making a field
goal we would lead 3-0.” However, the pass from center was fumbled, allowing Catawba time enough to block the kick.

Harriers Oppose Wake In Opener
With these familiar words, Coach Heath Whittle summed up his first opponent of the 1963 cross country season. “It’s hard
to compete against a subsidized team like Wake Forest.” The Deacons will be here next Wednesday afternoon to supply the
competition for a well-balanced Wildcat squad. What the ‘Cats have gained in balance they have lost in depth. At the
present time, there are seven men competing for the seven openings. When asked to name his number-one man, Whittle said
any of his first five...

End Eddie Gomez picked up the blocked kick and ran 98 yards to score. The Indians failed to convert and
Davidson trailed 6-0. Minutes later the Wildcat offense again began to roll with a balanced attack. Quarterback Benny Coxton sent
fullback Pat Fisher, Halfback Jim Fuller and himself into the line with repeated success. When the ground attack stalled, Coxton
or Quarterback Earl Cole kept the drive alive with passes to split-end Steve Heckard. With six minutes gone in the
third quarter Fisher went over from the one for Davidson's first score. Bill Dole Jr. kicked the extra point to
put the ’Cats ahead 7-6.

In the third period a Davidson drive stalled until Cole came in to pass 19 yards to Heckard. The drive
continued to the one where Fisher again went in for the score. Dole’s kick was successful and the ‘Cats had
a 14-6 advantage. At this point, for no apparent reason, the Wildcats became kittens. In the final 21 minutes of
play Catawba gained 130 yards while allowing Davidson a mere 42. Big 6'5” end Bucky Pope, a pro prospect, took
things in his capable hands, catching two touchdown passes to put the Indians ahead 18-14. Both two-point attempts were turned
back, but the extra points weren't necessary, as Davidson was unable to score again.

Fuller was leading rusher for Davidson. The big halfback averaged 4.6 yards in 10 carries. He again had a fine
night punting, although marred when one tremendous punt hit a power line, knocking it back for short yardage. The only
other punter to ever hit that line was King Hill of the Philadelphia Eagles when they played in Memorial stadium
two years ago.

Tomorrow the 'Cats face a Citadel team which lost 7-0 to William and Mary last week in their opening game.
This indicates the Bulldogs are a strong team, as William and Mary are picked by many to finish first or
second in the conference. Game captains for Davidson are Will Jackson, Bill Dole, and Earl Cole. Kickoff in Richardson Field
will be at 2 p.m.

THIS IS WHAT STARTED IT ALL. Catawba end Eddie Gomez has scooped up Bill Dole’s blocked field goal and behind
a wall of blue suits is beginning his 98 yard ramble for six points. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Surprising Sig Eps Share Early Flickerball Top Spot
Another year of flickerball began Monday afternoon under the auspices of a revamped IMAC. With the games through Wednesday, there
were some familiar stories and a few surprises related by the standings.

The Sig Eps played the only cliff-hanger. Their last touchdown with seconds to play against the Pi Kapps climaxed a
come-from-behind victory and put them in a tie for the lead. The biggest surprise, perhaps, was the poor showing of
the SAE's against the Betas on opening day. A last minute substitution, “Pigpen” Kellett, ignited the SAE offense but failed
to close the 38 point deficit. The Betas showed what appears to be the best defense in the league, as
the Gams intercepted a total of six in the game. The Sigma Chi line play was sparked by the rushes
of Elly Pusser.

For the coming week, one of the more interesting contests should be the Beta-Independent game next Tuesday. That will match
an excellent defense with a good offense. The KA’s, on the other hand, have an excellent offensive combination in Rick
Smyre and...Homecoming. William and Mary had the ball on the Davidson six-yard line, first and goal to go in the
second period. After three rushes, William and Mary failed to score, and on fourth down, they were stopped on the
one-yard line. The final score was 7-7. There are other examples, but the point is that this decision backfired Friday
night. Perhaps, your decision does not agree with that of Coach Dole. But he made the decision based upon his
knowledge of football in accordance with what he believed to be the play with the best chance of succeeding. This
is called “playing the percentages.” It is done in any profession by any professional if that professional is competent in
his profession. Coaching football is Coach Dole’s profession.

STOLEN FROM THE SCREEN ... Haynes Kelly. In a meeting with the equally offensive Independents, the two teams appeared about
equal offensively; however, defensive lapses by the Independents told the story as they fell 32-20. In the Phi Gam-Sigma Chi
game, interceptions were the deciding factor. After rolling over an impotent Phi Delt squad on Monday, the Sigma Chi offense
faltered before the Gam line. Rick Brand and Sammy Going were the line stalwarts, Brand intercepting three passes.

Like almost anything else at Davidson, the outraged indignation at Coach Dole for “losing” a football game will soon pass
away. However, something is sure to remain, for it has been at Davidson since I arrived here. This week, football
players, faculty members, students, alumni, and others have used the blocked field goal to explain why last Friday’s game was
lost. This is everyone’s excuse or reason or what-have-you for this defeat. There is always a reason (just one) for
losing, no matter what is lost. Perhaps this even goes a little bit further than football; perhaps it enters into
the activity of everyone. It’s the cry of the loser.

Above, I said “something” has been at Davidson since I have arrived. This statement in itself has very little meaning,
and I’m not sure I can explain it, so I’d like to borrow the explanation from a movie—“The Hustler.” If
you haven’t seen the movie, it may not help, but perhaps the idea will be conveyed anyway. In the movie,
Fast Eddie has just beaten Minnesota Fats in straight pool for eight hours. At the end of this time, Fats
retires to the washroom, cleans up, and comes out to play pool again. In the meantime, Fast Eddie has bought
a pair of pints of liquor and is hurriedly emptying them. In the next six hours, Minnesota Fats beats Fast
Eddie twice, both times badly. Several days later, the gambler (George Scott), the all-knowing, unfeeling observer, sits talking to Eddie.
And he tells him, “Yes sir, Eddie, I knew you were a loser the first time I saw you. Now
you take the Fat Man, he was great. You beat his brains out for eight hours, and what did he
do? He washes up, combs his hair, puts on a little cologne, powders his hands, chalks his stick, and says,
‘Let’s play pool, Fast Eddie!’ And what do you do? You wrap your hand around a bottle and get clobbered.
Sure, you were drunk. But you wanted to get drunk. You wanted a reason to lose, Eddie, you’re a loser.
And that’s all the difference between you and the Fat Man.”

So what’s the parallel? Minnesota Fats gets clobbered. He offers no reason, no excuse; he got beat. And what does
he do? He looks the man who just clobbered him in the face and says, “Let’s play pool, Fast Eddie.”
Fast Eddie is good (perhaps better), but he can’t win. So what’s the difference between this winner and this loser?
It’s the Fat Man’s knowledge in his ability and his confidence that he can win. It’s the same thing that
makes a fighter get off the canvas and go after his opponent. And it’s the same thing that makes a
farmer who is ruined by drought start over again. The loser always has a reason to lose. That’s why he’s
a loser.

This illustration is not merely intended to point a finger at the football team or any other specific person or
persons because it applies to anyone who clutches at straws and has their own reason for losing. It is directed
against an attitude. This attitude has been too long the way at Davidson. It’s time to quit crying and alibiing—it’s
time to dry the tears and play pool.

QUERY... Building bonfires and hanging people in effigy is great fun, even sport, and may even show school spirit. I
asked the question, “Has anyone ever heard of an effigy-hanger being hung in effigy?” The answer: It’s hard to hang
a chicken without a head.

WILL YOU SEE TUESDAY’S HOME SOCCER MATCH?
BY ERIC NICHOLS
Davidsonian Sports Writer

With a successful two weeks of practice behind them, the soccer team is eagerly putting the finishing touches on their
plays in anticipation of their first game Tuesday with Belmont Abbey. Coach Fogleman reports that his squad has “a lot
of depth and good individual athletes. If we can get them all together, we’ll have a fine season.” For Fogleman,
the most important factors indicating the team’s effort and interest were the two excellent intra-squad scrimmages last week.

When questioned about a possible starting lineup, Fogleman, in replying, noted several line and backfield switches. Both Jan Brakel and
Mike Nemir have been moved from the line to halfback positions. Because the halfbacks have so much field to cover,
Fogleman plans to use two alternating “platoons.” Brakel and Nemir comprise one platoon, while the other consists of Wayne Lane
and Dave Olin. Tarby Bryant, Howard Morris, and sophomore Gus Brown are candidates for the fullback positions. On the line,
likely starters are wings Ben Nzengu, Lewis Foss, and Alan Arthurs. Simon Henson has been moved from wing to inside,
playing along with Walt Eckman. The center position is occupied by Fred Schoen. Lyman Dillon, as goalie, is backed up
by the efforts of Ted Pullian.

A fitting summation of the team may be found in the comments of team captain Schoen. He said, “I think
we have more talent than ever before. We have every expectation of the best season yet.” Schoen added, “Our first
game will be our easiest, and it will give us a chance to work together and see how we’ll do.”

WAS THIS MAN AIMING FOR THE POWER LINE? Jim Fuller, shown practicing his punting, joins the select company of King
Hit! as a result of his punt Friday night which struck a power line 100 feet above the field.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.
Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by:
Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Of Concord
Concord, N.C.
