PAGE SIX

Rare Bird Finds A Perch In College’s Biology Dept.

BY BILL FOSTER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Future pre-med students may have been pleasantly confused for a few moments when they stepped into the lab last week. The course was biology, true—but their lab instructor was a woman, Miss Anne Shannon Cumming. She is the third woman ever to embellish an otherwise all-male faculty at Davidson.

The road that she took to obtain her present position as instructor in the biology department is an interesting one. Miss Cumming had a brother who attended school here and through whom she met Dr. Tom Daggy. Thinking that through his connections with other biology departments, he might know of a position that would be available at some southern school, she wrote to him. In his reply, Dr. Daggy said that Davidson had a position open and advised her to write to Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston to ask him for it. “You know,” he wrote, “we have no particular policy against hiring women.”

Miss Cumming hadn't expected such a reply. She just did not think that Davidson would want to have a woman on its teaching staff. It all seemed “kinda funny” to her.

Miss Cumming is a graduate of Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Ga. After leaving Agnes Scott, she attended Washington University in St. Louis where she now has a master’s degree pending. The school is probably best known for its medical program. She chuckles and calls it the “original Washington” because “it was founded before George Washington or Washington state.”

Miss Cumming’s chief field of interest is ecology. She began in embryology but became so engrossed in ecology that she ‘just couldn’t resist it. It sorta took me.”

Soochan, Korea, which is the birthplace of Miss Cumming, provides another clue to her personality. She has to smile a bit when she talks of her hometown. She lived there for only 22 months. She hopes eventually to go into the mission field although she is not particularly interested in any one country. “I am just waiting for a field that needs someone with my talents,” she stated. Her parents were both missionaries.

Having taken her undergraduate work at an all-girl school, coming to teach at an all-boys school might pose a few problems for her. “So far,” Miss Cumming reported, “nothing major. It did feel a little strange the other day to have a boy call me ‘Sir’.” Her all-male students seem “to have taken it all very calmly.”

Although she is at present associated with a lot of males, she is not interested in any particular one. “I just have a lot of good friends.”

The science building already claims one of Miss Cumming’s innovations. When she arrived, there was no ladies' room; so one had to be created in the basement. “Now,” she laughed, “I have my own private powder room."

SUMMER CONSTRUCTION

Campus summer construction projects ranged from work at Lake Norman to the additional wing of the Ovens College Union and paving sidewalks between strategic areas on campus. Grover Meetze, director of the physical plant, said that the improvements on the lake campus have been the “big push” this summer. New projects include a floating platform with a diving board, the addition of running water, and a redwood bathhouse equipped with dressing rooms and showers.

Another big project has been the new Union wing. According to Meetze, completion is due in November. The new air-conditioned facility will include a consolidated store (paperback, textbook, and student) and an enlarged game room. This will allow additional space for the cafeteria and some private dining rooms.

While these two activities took the prominent position in summer construction, there were certain other important projects. The most notable of these projects was the extensive dormitory painting and repair. Two additional walks have been added between the Union and Cannon Dorm and the Union and Duke Dorm. In Chambers Building, many third-floor rooms have been renovated in order to provide additional faculty office space.

Film Committee Picks Flicks For Semester

BY JOHN HIGGINS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Union Film Committee has begun the year with an augmented schedule and a revamped “theater.” Pat Freeny, chairman of the film committee, has tried to book some better-known films for this year. Freeny said that the film committee will use as a guide to film selection a poll that last year’s film committee took to determine what films the student body would prefer to see here.

“Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,” which drew a total of nearly 230 students, was chosen as a result of the poll. “Psycho,” probably the most expensive film to be rented by the committee this year, is also on the schedule.

For Graveyard-Shift Cop, Signals Only Activity

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Public drunk is Davidson’s number one police problem. “This doesn’t stand up too well with the impressive crime rate of Charlotte, but we don’t have some of the problems they do.” But there is still traffic on NC 115, and there is still public drunk, and there is still the chance of rather extensive use of credit at Rush Wilson's after hours. And so there is the unmarked Ford with the short antenna on the roof.

Three men rotate shifts on the Davidson police force. Students weaving, racing, or just dragging back from Charlotte and distant points are familiar with the 11 to 7 shift. This month, Officer R. H. Mills sits behind the wheel, his hat pushed back, and watches the lights flash and change down Main Street. To give the highest college compliment, Mills is cool, a sort of Horatio in reverse, who protects the town but has to farm to make a living. And he quickly confirms many a freshman’s thoughts that the town is dead early in the morning... Except on weekends, when the folks get paid, and if it’s a full moon—then they are out “climbin’ trees.” So there is an extra man on weekends, Earl Knox, to disperse the dogs, drunks, and dawdlers along with Joe Walley, the boss, and Marvin Honeycutt. But most of the time it’s quiet, which is the way Mills likes it. “They don’t pay me enough to take chances.”

The moon isn't full now, so Mills has time to talk while sitting in Reid’s with the lights flashing and changing and the Mecklenburg net occasionally telling of distant hoopla, time advantages of the Spearhead of the New South. Highway 21 used to go through here; it is now a mile or so to the west. And the Southern Railway only runs four freights a day past the depot and the unpainted houses back in the trees.

Mills might talk to his Cornelius counterpart, or just watch students dutifully stop for the red lights. (They run all night because of a state law about highway intersections.) The talk might be speculative, which is the greatest part of Davidson's crime. Mills affirms that 90 percent of the officers killed are the result of carelessness. If he should discover a robbery, the thing to do is not saddle up but “get behind a tree and start slingin’ lead.”

Traffic is less speculative. There is no speed trap in the town, and Mills believes in a warning “the first time.” If people are appreciative, they won't be back, but he does not appreciate anyone who “tromps on my toes.” An occasional itinerant on the rails and small-time Thunder Road operations (“Leave ‘em to the ABC and the ATU.”) and the rest of the time it’s quiet.

Contact with students, other than incidents of beanie snatching, is usually concerned with cars. On weekends, when “we have our fun,” it may be some untimely extracurricular use of the vehicle. Mills recalls some instances of such. Called in on one, he discovered the occupants in a considerable state of dishabille, to the extent that the girl was hiding her face in the small of her boyfriend’s back.dates back. What can you say? Mills observed that in such a situation one might do well to cover other than the face, and suggested a more seemly location. And what is there to do when people are off the streets with no money and the trees don’t look as if they need climbing? You can run up to Mt. Mourne and back on 21, across the tracks by the mill. But most of the time you sit in Reid’s or Archer's looking down asphalt black and lonely as the night and watch the lights flash and change. If you are Officer Mills, you push your hat back and smile, and maybe talk about how quiet it is.

The year was also high on the poll. Other frequently requested films which the committee will try to obtain are “Oceans Eleven,” “High Noon,” “Giant” and “Ice Palace.” “West Side Story” was a favorite, too, but Freeny expressed doubt that it would be available. In order to show as many of these films as possible, the schedule has been enlarged. Movies will be shown Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, as last year; in addition, a new film will be booked for Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. Freeny stated that the new schedule would be continued if the committee got enough support from the student body, both in assistance and attendance; “the film committee will respond just as well as the students respond to the film committee.” Freeny pointed out that one of the committee’s biggest problems in scheduling is to attain a proper balance between foreign and art films, which attract small audiences, and popular entertainment movies. In an effort to get bigger audiences, the film committee is trying to arrange to show the art and foreign movies in Hodson Hall this year. This change of atmosphere, he said, should improve attendance. Professors and their wives who are reluctant to attend movies in the Morrison Room might not mind coming to Hodson Hall. Some of these films will be shown free of charge, others will require the regular admission charge. Acting on the overwhelming requests for cartoons, the committee will run more of them with the features. Road Runner cartoons are a special favorite. The committee last year gave newsreels a trial run, but they were not very successful because they were usually old. Therefore, newsreels are being discontinued this year.

Although the committee is going to try to schedule movies Monday - Saturday, it will not create a conflict in college productions. For this reason, no films will be shown during the Great Issues Program Oct. 3. And movies will not be shown most of the Saturdays this semester because of other productions. Working in collaboration with Walter MacDonald, who is in charge of Great Issues, the committee may occasionally show, in addition to the feature, a short pertaining to the subject of the Great Issues semester topic. The purpose will be to create interest in the lectures. However, this program is still in the planning stage.

Blue Cross Blue Shield
STUDENT CERTIFICATE
Comprehensive health protection for college and trade school students under 24 years of age and in health. Individual or Family Plan. For details mail coupon to...
HOSPITAL CARE ASSOCIATION
DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA

Leaders Of Alumni Meet Here

A group of about 75 Davidson alumni leaders are meeting here for special briefing sessions today and tomorrow in an effort to give them a look at the entire college program and give them a chance to speak with faculty members and students. The leaders, including National Alumni Association officers and directors, Living Endowment Fund chairmen, regional chairmen, local chapter officers and class agents and secretaries, were given a buffet supper in the College Union at 6:30 this evening. The supper is being followed by the first briefing session. Dr. W. G. McGavock will speak on “The Davidson College Today.” Following him, John Spratt, Student Council president, will speak on “The Davidson Student Today.” Robert J. Sailstad, director of public relations, will close the program with a talk on “The Davidson College of Tomorrow.” The program, taking place in Hodson Hall, will be followed by a coffee in the Guest House. A. L. Foscue, president of the National Alumni Association, will officially welcome the alumni. The faculty is invited to the coffee. The coaches and the physical education staff will give the visitors a “Wildcat Breakfast” in the gymnasium tomorrow morning. Several coaches will speak during the breakfast. After alumni group meetings, a question and answer period will be held. Dean H. Edmunds White, admissions; Dean Richard Clyde Burts, student affairs; Chaplain Will Terry, religion; and Dr. E. R. MacCormac, scholarship will participate. Dean Frontis W. Johnston will speak at a luncheon at 12:30. Following the luncheon, the alumni will see the Davidson-Citadel football game at 2 p.m. William L. Bondurant, director of alumni activities, said of the program, “I hope they (the alumni) will talk with some students and professors and attend some classes.”

Music Department Sponsors Recitals

The Davidson College Department of Music will sponsor a series of recitals at the College Church on one Monday each month beginning next week, the department announced recently. The first performance, a joint trumpet-organ recital, will be held at 4:45 p.m. Monday with Dr. Grier M. Williams, director of the Wind Ensemble, and Wilmer Welsh, college organist, performing. Music composed by Henry Purcell, a seventeenth-century English musician, will be featured in the concert at the college church. On Friday, Oct. 4, the music department will present Professor Roger Drinkall of the Queens College music faculty as cellist and Derry Deane Drinkall as violinist in a duo recital. Beginning at 8:15 p.m., the husband and wife recital will include music by Bach, Alessandro Rolla, Ernst Krenek and Maurice Ravel. Professor and Mrs. Drinkall are graduates of the Curtis Institute of Music and the Eastman School of Music, respectively.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

VISIT THE Tastee Freeze Just Down In Cornelius
Hours
Tues. - Thurs. — 10:30 - 8:00
Fri. - Sat. — 10:30 - 10:00
Sun. 2-9
Closed Monday

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1963

ONE OF SEVERAL AVOCATIONS for Dr. W. O. Puckett is his interest in ceramics (above). In addition, he claims a hobby of farming, sports and... (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

‘Ceramics Not My Hobby’ But Puckett still Putters
BY CHARLES EDWARDS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

How does a man like Dr. W. O. Puckett spend his leisure time? We thought we had found an answer to this question when photographer Joe McCutchen caught the biology professor in the act of working in ceramics. An interview quickly dispelled any notion of this sort, however. “Ceramics is just something to do on a rainy afternoon in Montreat. Mr. Whittle (cross country and track coach A. Heath Whittle) is the real ceramics fan.” Upon further questioning, Puckett revealed more of his interests. “My chief hobby is farming,” he said. “I like to keep greens on the table. If I have any other hobby, I suppose it must be sports. I try to see all the games... My favorite sport is the one that’s in season at that time. I do try to play a little golf about once a week, though. My other interests? I’m a foe of the underachiever and a friend of the boy who works.” Born in nearby Cornelius, Dr. Puckett is a well-informed lecturer on that popular local science known as “Davidsoniana.” Of course, “lecturer” is hardly the word, since his free-and-easy, conversational talks establish such a bond between speaker and listener as to render conscious effort toward attention completely superfluous. Puckett closed with, “You might as well forget that ceramics stuff. Joe just took that picture when I didn't have anything else to do.”

Davidson’s debate team opens its season as host team for a tournament to be held here Oct. 11-12. The primary purpose of this early match is to acquaint the boys with the competition they will face later on. The question to be decided is: “Resolved that the Federal Government should guarantee an opportunity for higher education to all qualified high school graduates.” Varsity debaters Skip Jones, Doug Wilkerson, Conrad Shumadine, Tom Poston, Bill Rule, Jim Curl, Bill Brown, Walt Drake and Dave Hardeman will be Davidson’s mainstay in the tournament. Freshman expected to compete are John Dwelle and Stan Cameron. Due to the later starting of invitational schools, not all the invitations have been answered. The six that have accepted are Gardner Webb, University of South Carolina, Western Carolina, Carson-Newman, Lynchburg College and Washington & Lee University. At least 10 schools are expected to compete when all the replies are received. The tournament will consist of five or six rounds of debating, with the first beginning at 3 on Friday afternoon. Following a Friday night banquet at 6:30, there will be one or two more rounds. The remaining two rounds are scheduled for Saturday morning.

YOU CAN DO IT, CHARLIE BROWN! by Charles M. Schulz
Only $1
At your college bookstore now.
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc.
Charlotte, N. C.