REINY EXTOLS “THE SUMMER OF SERVICE” (See Page Two) The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College TRACKMEN
AIM FOR EMORY (See Page Three) VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 1963 NUMBER TWENTY-ONE SENATOR
THRUSTON MORTON and fellow-Kentuckian Danny Carrell sit on the stage before chapel. Morton's talk centered mainly on the Kennedys’ fiscal
policy. (Staff Photo by Lawrimore.)

Film Committee Features Six Weeks Of Fine Films
BY BILL AITKEN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Union Film Committee will begin showing two different films each week beginning April 8 for a six-week period. This
is a result of the annual Film Festival which will present six features in conjunction with the regular weekly movies.
On the Beach, Lolita, and A Taste of Honey headline the marquee. On the Beach will be shown the week
immediately following spring break. All of these movies were in the list of the top five films for '62.

Tom Wright, chairman of the Film Committee, told THE DAVIDSONIAN in an interview, “We are going to make this year's
Film Festival six weeks in length as opposed to last year’s duration of two days. By doing this, each student
will have a better chance to see all six movies.”

The first feature will be shown the same week as On the Beach. A silent film entitled Sunrise, it is
heralded by critics as “the most beautiful film ever made.” Following this will be Rules of the Game and Intolerance.
The latter is by D. W. Griffith, author of Birth of a Nation which was shown at last year’s festival.
This movie, also silent, is an early spectacular combining four stories in one. Another “most” film on the list is
Greed by Eric von Stroheim. This is the most naturalistic film made, according to Wright.

Although plans are still tentative, the committee hopes to include a Russian film in this series—possibly Ivan the Terrible. Each
of these films is on the list of motion picture's all-time top ten features. These films will be shown twice
weekly for the regular price of 50 cents in the Morrison Room of the College Union. It will be possible
to buy a series ticket for the entire Film Festival or to pay for each film individually.

The Film Festival had its start under the impetus of David Simpson (class of '63) who is presently in New
York directing films. Since his origination of the festival, it has become an annual occurrence on the college campus. Wright
hopes that attendance at this year’s festival will be encouraging enough to allow the films to run the full six
weeks. However, he noted that if the films did not work out satisfactorily financially, the festival would be cut short.

Trying to keep pace with the need for adequate facilities in Davidson’s film program, the Film Committee has recently purchased
a new 35mm cinemascope lens. This will increase the size of the actual photographs on the screen. During exams, the
committee is considering showing The Phantom of the Opera House. The committee is also interested in knowing if the student
body would be interested in any Marlene Dietrich or Douglas Fairbanks features.

Puckett Will Give Test For Deferment

Students not enrolled in the advanced ROTC program will be given a chance to delay their service obligation a while
longer when the Selective Service Deferment Test is given at Davidson April 16. “A senior who wants to go to
graduate school and isn’t in a deferred category needs to clear with the Selective Service,” noted Dr. W. O. Puckett,
who will administer the test. Students wishing to take the test should see Puckett for applications. A student can be
deferred by passing this test with a certain (unspecified) score or by having a certain class standing. Students desiring to
know if their standing is sufficient to gain a deferment should see Puckett.

New Chapel Accent: Speaker On Politics

A new emphasis on political speakers in chapel seems apparent with Senator Morton this past week and the scheduled speakers
for April—Arthur Gorson of the Americans for Democratic Action and Dr. Fern Stukenbroeker of the FBI.

Preceding Stukenbroeker’s lecture on communist subversion, Dr. E. F. Patterson will lead a study group on the ideological beliefs of
communism using C. Wright Mills' book The Marxists. The discussion group will meet the Wednesday nights of April 10, 17,
and 24. Everyone interested in Patterson’s discussion group should sign up before spring break in Chaplain Will Terry's office.

Not lacking when it comes to action, Gorson has been active in sit-in demonstrations in Annapolis, Md., Nashville, Tenn., and
along Route 40 in Delaware and Maryland. He is also the editor of the Liberal Voice. ADA is an offspring
of ADA, the liberal political organization which includes such notables as Senator Hubert Humphrey, Arthur Schlesinger Jr., and the late
“first lady of the world,” Eleanor Roosevelt. Formed in 1947, ADA has attacked the far-far left and more commonly the
far right. ADA describes itself as liberal as opposed to conservative. “It recognizes change as the first law of society.”
It is independent in the sense it is attached to no political party; but it is political since it tries
to achieve its objectives through political processes.

On April 25, Dr. Fern Stukenbroeker will present a series of lectures on communist subversion in the United States. Stukenbroeker,
after obtaining his PhD in European history, entered the FBI in 1942 as a special agent. In 1948, he was
assigned to the headquarters staff of the FBI. His work has primarily centered in the investigation of the Communist Party,
USA, and Soviet espionage. With over 20 years with the FBI, Stukenbroeker has become an expert on communism. J. Edgar
Hoover, FBI director, has picked Stukenbroeker to appear throughout the U.S. as an FBI speaker on communism.

Copeland's Store To Open Saturday

The biggest part of Pop Copeland's legend will come alive tomorrow. The ‘Jungle,’ his Davidson-renowned emporium that has as many
varieties in the dry-goods line as a tropical forest has plants and trees, will open under his son’s salesmanship. Creecy
Copeland plans as a temporary arrangement to keep the store open all day on Saturdays. W. C. Copeland’s daughter, Mary
Copeland, proprietor of Marietta’s Dress Shop, will also help maintain the “Jungle’s” life by keeping it open from time to
time on weekday afternoons. Miss Copeland said that she would have no regular afternoon times to operate the emporium, but
she also said that anyone who wanted to buy something from there could come to her dress shop. “I will
be glad to go up the street and get anything a student or anyone else might want,” she told THE
DAVIDSONIAN.

Miss Copeland made the fact clear that this rather unstable operating arrangement would be only temporary. “We will do it
this way until we can find someone to run the store (on a full-time basis),” she said. She commented that
there were still a great many legal details pending on the settlement of the late Rev. Copeland's estate. The ex-minister,
affectionately known to many Davidson folks as “Pop,” passed away Saturday, March 2. The family intends to keep the store
open because they “feel he would want it that way.”

McGuirt, Barrow, Hardeman Take Reins

Eudora Welty, author of Davidson's Book-of-the-Year, will arrive on campus Tuesday, April 9. Scheduled during her stay on campus are
two talks, one during chapel period, and a discussion on Tuesday night. Miss Welty’s first appearance will be at chapel
period Tuesday at which time she will present a discussion at 9. Her book, chosen by a faculty-YMCA committee headed
by junior Bill Ferris of Vicksburg, Mississippi, is a collection of 25 short stories, based upon her observations of life
in her native South. She approaches these stories not only with the intention of creating a vivid picture of Southern
life, but also of showing the impact of the circumstances upon the persons involved.

Dr. J. S. Purcell of Davidson’s English department writes, “The choice of this Mississippi writer is to be applauded on
the basis of regional appropriateness as well as that of literary excellence. Perhaps Eudora Welty appears at her best in
her bland treatment of the comic and the pathetic. To her sensitive and sympathetic eye the two often blend, subtly
reflecting the sensations that her characters are feeling.”

Miss Welty was born and raised in Jackson, Mississippi, where she is living at the present time. She attended Mississippi
State College for Women and was graduated from the University of Wisconsin. She has had seven books published during her
literary career.and was the recipient of a Guggenheim fellowship and of the Howell Gold Medal for fiction, presented by the
Institute of Arts and Culture. She is coming to Davidsen from the University of Arkansas where she is presently lecturing.

Piedmont Colleges Begin Co-Op Plan

The Piedmont University Center has been organized and is now planning its program. In February 1962, the Davidson College Trustees
approved the college's membership in the organization, which comprises schools in the Piedmont area and which has as its purpose,
according to Davidson College President D. Grier Martin, the sponsoring of “any project which will serve to improve the progress
of the member institutions.” A. R. Kappel, past president of Catawba College, has recently been appointed the executive director of
the center, and its headquarters have been established in Winston-Salem at Reynolda, the Reynolds family's previous home.

Although the program is still in its initial planning stages, Martin outlined for THE DAVIDSONIAN possible activities of the center.
At a greatly reduced cost, outstanding speakers could be persuaded to stay in the area for four or five days,
thus giving depth to Davidson’s own schedule of speakers and simultaneously bringing, possibly for the first time, distinguished lecturers to
the campuses of other member colleges. Specialists might also be commissioned to teach for a semester subjects more specialized than
small colleges can normally afford to provide in their curricula. A program of artists or writers-in-residence might be instituted under
such a plan. Through a centralized filing, a listing of library books owned by one could be made available to
others.

Eudora Welty Will Present Fourth Y Book-Of-The-Year

Eudora Welty will present the fourth Y Book-of-the-Year. She is coming to Davidsen from the University of Arkansas where she
is presently lecturing. Her book is the fourth in the Book-of-the-Year program which was begun in 1959 by the YMCA.
Others who have preceded Miss Welty in the program have been Vance Packard, author of The Status Seekers, 1959; Leon
Uris, author of Exodus, 1960; and John C. Bennett, author of Christianity and Communism, 1961. Copies of Miss Welty’s book
are now on sale at the Union for $1.20. She will present several readings and speak again that evening at
8:15 in the college union, which will be followed by an informal discussion.

IFC Seeks Control Of Weekend Curfew

Curfew for girls at the fraternity houses is currently administered by the college authorities; the IFC proposes to assume responsibility
for enforcing the rule, making it a part of the IFC body of regulations. The rule provides that girls be
out of fraternity houses by midnight on weeknights and by 1:30 Sunday mornings. On dance weekends, the times are extended
to 5 on Saturday morning and 3 Sunday morning. Under the IFC regulation, there would be fines of $25 per
fraternity for each violation, with a minimum of $15 to be paid by the member involved (the fraternity could make
up the rest, or the individual could pay the entire $25). This IFC proposal will be presented to the next
meeting of the faculty committee on fraternities.

Election of officers for the IFC will be April 15; by that time, all fraternities will have completed their elections
of representatives. The new IFC will work with the old on Spring Frolics, April 19-21. On Friday night of Spring
Frolics, the Zodiacs and the Terchords will play at a street dance from 9 till 12. Before the dance, the
D-Club will present the annual D-Club Foolies (the price of this ticket is included in the price of the weekend
tickets). Saturday afternoon at 2, the Four Saints—John Howell, Doug Evans, Bob Erickson, and Jerry DuChene—are all from the state
of Washington. They have been together in high school, college, and in the U.S. Air Force Band. At the University
of Puget Sound, DuChene, Erickson, and Evans were members of SAE while Howell was a Sigma Chi. All were active
in varsity athletics. Since beginning their professional career in 1962, they have performed at schools throughout the country, including the
University of Oklahoma, Emory, Georgia Tech, Auburn, Kansas State, and the University of Denver.

Student Council Race Wraps Up Balloting

Fred McGuirt is next year's senior class president. He was elected on Thursday along with Joel Morrisett, vice-president; Hill Wellford,
secretary-treasurer; and Walter MacDonald and Ralph Small, representatives. McGuirt barely edged his five opponents for the top spot. He had
50 votes followed by Morrisett with 46, Wellford with 44, Small with 43, McDonald with 42, and Bob Ivey with
41. John Barrow was elected president of next year’s junior class. Also elected were Charlie Marshall, vice-president, and Bruce Swain,
representative. Barrow polled 37 votes in Tuesday's voting to edge Marshall with 35 and Swain with 29. The rising sophomore
class president is Dave Hardeman. He edged Arnie Snider in the balloting, 42-41. Snider will be the sophomore council representative.

On the first day of balloting for Student Council positions there were 26 rising seniors, 20 rising juniors, and 18
rising sophomores. McGuirt, a Sigma Chi, is now serving as second vice-president of the Student Council. He and his wife
are both from Lumberton, N.C. He is a pre-med major and is a member of the varsity football team. Barrow
also serves on the current Student Council, as sophomore class representative. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta and
is from Winston-Salem. Hardeman, from Fort Valley, Ga., was on the first semester Dean’s List. He is also a member
of Philanthropic Literary Society.

The Elections Board met Thursday afternoon to review this year's elections. Several suggestions to improve next year’s voting procedures were
made. They will be given to the Student Council next month. Student Body President Danny Carrell was admittedly disappointed over
the turnout of voters, “Of course, nothing is going to bring any more people out around here,” stated Carrell. “This
lackadaisical attitude of some people is really pitiful,” he added. Carrell seemed pleased with the overall conduct of the elections;
however, he had hoped to draw more voters with a novel system using election cards. Each student was supposed to
secure one of these cards to be punched every time he voted.

Paul Duvall, chairman of the Elections Board, said that approximately 650 students had cards, although no election this month drew
nearly that many voters. Duvall said that someone even came to him on Tuesday of this week asking for a
card for the first time. Carrell, who originated the idea for the cards, said he thought they served their purpose.
“It certainly expedited voting for those who wanted to vote,” he said. Carrell added he felt that those who really
wanted to vote would go to the trouble to procure a voting card. When asked why there was no voting
on Wednesday of this week as scheduled, Duvall replied, “There just weren’t any ballots printed.” A misunderstanding about the mimeographing
of ballots caused the voting to be postponed until Thursday.

Incoming Student President John Spratt said he had some definite changes in mind to improve next year’s elections; however, he
said it would be up to the new Student Council to see these improvements made. Spratt said he was in
favor of keeping the voting card system in effect next year. “If you really want to take an interest in
things, you can go to the trouble to pick up a card,” Spratt said. He added, however, that he hoped
to make it more convenient for students to secure a voting card next year. Spratt and the other student body
officers will be installed on April 22.

Union Spring Fling Features Pie Sling

The Union Spring Fling will begin at 8 tonight. Jayne Mansfield has not yet sent an answer to her invitation.
Targets for the pie-throwing exhibition will be Dean Richard C. Burts, Chaplain Will Terry, Shoutin’ Sam Maloney, T-Bird Tommy Clark,
Rev. Bill Morris, and DAVIDSONIAN editor Bill Hagen. Ben Cole has selected about five more victims, but they have not
yet been informed of their fate. The combo for this evening, the Van Dales, was recommended by the SAEs. The
girls from Queens arrived this afternoon to help decorate for the party. Seven girls were entertained at each fraternity house
at supper. The Queens Freshman Follies will definitely be presented, and popcorn and punch will be served.
