PAGE TWO: NATIONAL REVIEW Ch ye Bavidsonian

PAGE THREE: WORTH READING REVIEWED BY PROFS THIS WEEK

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1983 NUMBER FIVE

FOR FRANCE, GERMANY

Davidson Plans Program For Year's Foreign Study

BY TOM LOFLIN

Davidson College's Foreign Study Committee has begun making plans this semester for what it hopes will turn into this school’s
own program for a year’s study in France and Germany. The program is only a possibility thus far, but the
committee has already drawn up a list of alternatives for a plan which will have to be decided upon by
the Curriculum Committee and the entire faculty and then approved by the administration before Davidson's junior year abroad is a
reality.

Dr. J. O. Embry, chairman of the Foreign Study Committee, said that President D. G. Martin was the man actually
responsible for the planning of a program. “It was his idea in the first place for Davidson to sponsor a
year abroad; the committee is merely trying to work out the details.”

Embry said that there were two main reasons that such a program might never be approved by the faculty and
administration. The first is the fact that such a project would cost the college extra money. “The biggest investment the
school would have to make would be to hire two new professors, one in French and the other in German,
since a professor from each department would have to accompany a group to the two countries.”

Embry said that despite the high enthusiasm now present in the language departments of the school, some professors outside of
the field were not very impressed by a foreign program since “they would be losing some top students for a
year.”

“A thing that would be nice now is for some fund or foundation that really believes in this type of
project to donate the school some money to help shoulder the added burden,” Embry said. “After all, the Richardson family
brings a pretty good-size group of foreign students over here every year. Why not have a program working in reverse
whereby some of our top students could get the same type of experience foreign students get over here?”

Embry stated that 20 sophomore French students so far had expressed a definite interest in a Davidson program if it
ever becomes a reality. The German department has between 15 and 20 sophomores signed up as interested. And 20 freshmen,
who would not be eligible next year, have expressed interest in going overseas in their junior year.

The proposed Davidson Foreign Study Plan states that students could spend either a semester or a year abroad during their
junior year. They would pay only a small addition to their regular fees at Davidson, if not, indeed, the exact
amount for an entire year's work. The committee has proposed that students receive their regular scholarships while abroad.

The plan also states, “The program is especially recommended for language majors, but it is open to others who can
work out a feasible program and secure the approval of the department of their major.

“The students will be enrolled as regular students in the foreign university and will have no special courses set up
for Americans with the exception of the seminar meeting with the Davidson professor present.

“The students will have two advisers: a member of the faculty of the university he is attending and a member
of the faculty of Davidson.”

The plan provides several alternatives for the transfer of grades and credits. One proposal is that students keep a record
of all work done and all examinations taken and present them to Davidson professors after their return. If it were
felt by the faculty that a student needed an examination in a certain course, then he would be given one.
This is the plan currently in effect for those students who travel abroad under other programs.

Two other ideas have been suggested. One is to let Davidson professors give supplementary reading lists to overseas students and
then administer by mail all examinations and tests. The student would then receive regular credit in a specific course at
Davidson. In the past, travelers have had to transfer credit from overseas.

(Continued On Page Four)

‘Open End’ Allows Choice Of Unrestricted Subjects

A professor may speak as he pleases on any subject he may choose. This is the stated purpose of the
new series held weekly in the College Union Lounge at 10 p.m. on Wednesday to discuss a wide range of
topics with different professors. The “Open End” series is not necessarily a news program. “We have given the professors complete
freedom in choosing their topics,” emphasized Paul Simpson, the Union Roundtable Committee of one. “The profs will speak on whatever
they're especially ‘up’ on.” These topics may be on something the students don’t expect, as Dr. D. W. Tucker's talk
of the Spanish Armada, or on just what will interest the students.

The “Open End” series replaces the now-defunct Review the News. “Review the News was a news program,” explained Simpson. “Only
a few people, maybe a dozen or so, were getting anything out of it. The same people came every Monday
night. We want to appeal to more students each week; by variety, we hope to reach the whole student body
at least once during the year.”

The series has done just that. The response has been excellent for the usually apathetic student body, according to Simpson.
Dean Richard C. Burts conducted the first “Open End” lecture and willingly stayed afterwards until 12:15 to answer all the
questions. Dr. Tucker's speech on the Spanish Armada was termed excellent by all the students who were there. Dr. G.
L. Abernethy’s talk, “Are You Getting Your Two Cents Worth Out of Your College Education?” was heard by 150-200 people.

The crowds at the “Open End” series have proved Simpson right in the time and format for the series. The
ten p.m. programs are set at the time when a student usually takes a break from his studies and comes
over to the Union. The programs are short and snappy, letting the more studious-minded head back to the dorms after
a few power-packed minutes.

Up and coming in the series are two outspoken members of the faculty, professors C. E. Lloyd and E. F.
Patterson. Lloyd plans to speak on Oct. 16 with “How To Make Enemies?” Patterson hopes to set the record straight
about “Kennedy’s Tax Program” on Oct. 30.

The Roundtable Forum, a series of special Thursday night programs, opened last night with a film and hot discussion of
the civil rights questions. “The Roundtable Forum,” envisioned Simpson, “is to give students a chance to discuss a wide range
of important topics with authorities in that field.”

The forums scheduled so far are:
Oct. 27 — Dr. Dan Rhodes on the Faculty Loyalty Oath, 10 p.m., Union Lounge.
Nov. 14 — Dr. R. S. Rankin, chairman of the department of political science at Duke, on Kennedy's Commission on
Civil Rights, chapel and open house after.
Feb. 20 — Dr. Edward Annis, president of the American Medical Association, at chapel, open house after and Thursday night.
March ? — Capt. Bart Slattery, Redstone Arsenal, Huntsville, Ala., at chapel and Thursday night.

Simpson has cooked up one last morsel to throw into the fire. After spring holidays a new series will begin,
called the “Last Lecture.” The situation is this: if the professor knew he were going to die the next day,
which last lecture would he give to his students? An interesting thought, according to Simpson.

Two Vie For Editor Of ’64-’65 Handbook

Roger David and Ed Stopher are the candidates of the Publications Board in the election for the editor of the
1964-65 Wildcat Handbook to be held Monday afternoon. Both candidates contributed to this year’s handbook. Stopher was business manager while
David served as associate editor.

David is a junior from Winston-Salem. A sports writer for THE DAVIDSONIAN last year, he is also on the staff
of Quips and Cranks. An ATO, David's major is pre-medicine.

From Louisville, Ky. Stopher, also a junior, is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He will take a
history honors major, and possibly a second major in economics.

In previous years the Wildcat Handbook editor has attended the American Collegiate Press Convention, held some time in October. The
handbook will have no representative this year, however, because of a deficit in funds.

The candidates expressed their plans, if elected, for the next handbook in separate statements to THE DAVIDSONIAN:

Roger David

I feel that the Wildcat Handbook serves a dual purpose — first, to introduce incoming freshmen to Davidson College, to
answer questions they may have before arriving, and to make their adjustment to their new environment easier; and second, to
provide useful information for the entire student body. With this end in view, I feel that last year's edition of
the Handbook has come nearer to fulfilling its purpose than any published so far. I again this year will emphasize
the readability and perhaps expand the editorial comment.In an effort to give the freshman a student's point of view, I
plan to make definite assignments of each section to a different member of the staff. Last year, the editor and
I did a great majority of the writing ourselves, and I feel the quality of the writing, in addition to
the diversity, could be improved by a delegation of responsibility. I plan also to retain the general format of last
year's edition, with essentially only minor changes and additions. I'd like, for one thing, to have each freshman’s room number
under his picture. Perhaps the weakest section in the past has been the athletic section. Here I plan to have
a sports editor who will present a summary of the preceding year's season for each intercollegiate sport and who will
try to make predictions on the outlook for the following year. In addition, I'd like to present a better picture
of extra-curricular and cultural opportunities, since many are unknown even to upperclassmen.

* * Ed Stopher

The primary purpose of the Wildcat Handbook is to serve as a guide to the incoming freshmen; however, I would
like to extend its usefulness to the entire student body beyond orientation and rush week. By incorporating more student ideas
and more information on campus activities and events, the handbook can serve as a guide to both freshmen and upperclassmen
throughout the school year. It is my intention to maintain and improve the quality of this year’s handbook without overreaching
its budget. By increasing advertising and trimming costs, the quality of this publication can be maintained without a financial deficit
to the college. The usefulness of the handbook can be greatly increased by the inclusion of a student directory and
a listing of freshman room numbers under their name and picture. If possible, I would like to add the schedules
of all athletic events and other campus activities planned for the coming year.

African Reporter Second In Great Issues Series

The YMCA Great Issues Program will feature its second speaker of the semester when Stewart King, a former reporter in
the Union of South Africa, addresses the Monday assembly. King has worked for the Johannesburg Star and the Johannesburg Daily
Mail, serving as senior reporter for the Star. He headed the news team that covered the Sharpesville riot in 1960
and is at present working for The News and Courier in Charleston, S.C. The title of his talk will be
“South African Predicament: Apartheid.”

On Thursday, Dr. Vernon McKay, Director of African Studies in the School of Advanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University,
will present the third phase of the program. McKay received his AB from Baker University, an MA from Syracuse, his
PhD from Cornell, and in 1961, an LLD from Baker. He has held a number of positions, among these as
lecturer on African affairs at the University of Stellenbosch in South Africa. McKay has served both with the U.S. State
Department and as a member of United States delegations to the United Nations. McKay's topic will be “Africa in World
Politics” and his talk will be based on his book by the same name.

SPEAKER JAILED

The scheduled Great Issues speaker for Oct. 31, the Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole, will be unable to appear because he was
jailed this week in Southern Rhodesia by the British government for “agitation.” However, the Great Issues Committee has contacted the
newly appointed Under-Secretary of the United Nations Department of Trusteeship for the Non-Self-Governing Nations, Godfrey J. K. Amachree. He is
a Nigerian who received his education at Cambridge University. Commented Walter MacDonald, chairman of the Great Issues Committee of the
YMCA, on the substitution, “It’s unfortunate that we had to change, but one can’t fight the British Empire.”

Davidson religious tenets continued to surprise the pollsters. In further commentary, they wrote: "At only four colleges in the poll
do majorities of Christians accept the concept of God becoming flesh. At Davidson College—a Southern school affiliated with Presbyterianism—half of
the student body rejects this, the central tenet of Christianity.” Yet 88 per cent of the Davidson students polled indicated
that they would bring their children up in their own religious tradition, which—in the case of 84 per cent of
the Davidsonians—is Protestantism.

The pollsters also discovered: “At Davidson, the comparison between frequency of belief in the Resurrection and in Christ's divinity is
as striking as the latter figure (50 per cent) is alone. At this, a Christian-affiliated school located squarely in Christian-oriented
North Carolina, less than 21 per cent of the student body believes that Christ was resurrected. Even at unabashedly secular
campuses like Williams, Sarah Lawrence, and Yale, larger percentages of Christian students accept this tenet than at Presbyterian-supported Davidson.”

But these same Davidson students express the largest dissent (70 per cent) to “I do not believe any specific religious
faith or the denial of religious faith should be discussed in the public schools.” Ninety-six per cent (the largest reported)
of these students attended Sunday School five or more years. Ninety-one per cent (the largest reported) read the Bible either
occasionally or frequently. And 74 per cent (again the largest group of any of the polled schools) read—at least occasionally—from
“contemporary theologians such as Niebuhr, Maritain, Buber.”

A large portion of the students—seven out of ten—find the practice of religion at college different from the practice of
religion at home. Seventy-one per cent—far higher than second-place Stanford's 35 per cent—reveal that they read more about religion at
Davidson while a high 48 per cent claim they think more about religion here. Surprisingly, despite required religious exercises at
Davidson, 63 per cent of the students queried reported that they attended services more regularly at home.

Percentage-wise, Davidson, the poll states, has the largest group of conservative students (44%) and the smallest group of liberal students
(no “radicals” and 34% “moderate liberals”). Of the ten colleges polled, Davidson also had the largest number (18%) of politically
indifferent pupils. Twice as many students have gone from conservative to more liberal (38%) than from liberal to more conservative
(18%). But only six per cent have gone from liberal to more liberal.

Referring to the two Southern schools (University of South Carolina and Davidson), the poll takers state: “The political consciousness of
both schools is mirrored in mass student defections from the Democratic Party. Davidson parents are 53 per cent Democratic and
41 per cent Republican; Davidson students are 36 per cent Republican and 26 per cent Democratic. More than half of
Davidson's students from Democratic families, then, have shed their traditional party label; many of those who remain Democrats are also
liberal.”

Given the choice of a world war with the Soviet Union or surrender to the Soviet Union, Davidsonians reflect general
feeling. Eighty-two per cent would prefer war to surrender. However, at the other extreme are Reed (25%) and Brandeis (32%)
with minorities favoring war. Only 18 per cent of Davidson's pupils approved “immediate unilateral suspension of atomic tests by the
United States” when responding last spring while 78 per cent registered opposition.

“One of the few areas,” the opinion collectors discovered, “of general agreement in the poll has to do with right-to-work
laws. Every school in the poll except Sarah Lawrence has a substantial majority either ‘definitely in favor’ or ‘somewhat in
favor’ of such a law, and at no school does a plurality disapprove of the measure. The most determined opposition
comes from Sarah Lawrence (27 per cent definitely opposed); the most impressive assent comes, not from South Carolina, but from
Howard, Brandeis, Indiana, and Davidson, in that order.” (Continued On Page Four)
