Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1963

(Two editorials by the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

(An Unsigned Editorial by the Editor)

Toward A Better Understanding...

One of the most remarkable and controversial chapters in Davidson College’s history came to a close this week when Dean of Faculty F. W. Johnston accepted the resignation of English professor W. F. Goodykoontz. Everyone present at the discussion Dr. Goodykoontz led during chapel this morning realized that they were being addressed by a man with brilliant thoughts who can present his ideas with knifelike clarity. This newspaper supports at least in principle nearly every constructive idea that Dr. Goodykoontz brought out in the discussion, and we feel that many faculty members and most students, particularly the 400 or more who were present at the Union this morning, support them also.

If the entire campaign had been conducted in the manner of the discussion this morning, a great amount of positive good could have come out of the controversy. Other professors and students in sympathy with the cause of creativity would have rallied to support Dr. Goodykoontz's objectives, probably accomplishing several of them. But the plain and simple fact is that the campaign degenerated into a vicious personal attack which was carried on, not in rational discussions, but in displays on walls and in blistering verbal broadsides.

Dean Johnston felt that the matter had reached an intolerable state which left him no choice but to accept Dr. Goodykoontz's resignation, and in light of many things this editor saw and heard happen this past week, this editor is forced by conscience to uphold that decision as just. The “effective immediately” phrase in the resignation’s acceptance by the Dean has stirred up an understandably bitter reaction among many students. That decision represented the most unpleasant part of a tragic dilemma. The Dean took into account aspects of the problem which perhaps no other one person here is aware of, including the consequences of losing a professor of Dr. Goodykoontz’s vast capabilities. Any statement to the contrary, particularly to the effect that the welfare of the students involved “was not even considered” by the Dean in his decision, is completely superficial.

Dr. Goodykoontz is a tremendously dedicated professor whose positive influence on English students at Davidson has been immeasurable. He built a dynamic drama group out of practically nothing in three short years. By sheer personality, he has inspired many students to personal heights in English literature and creative writing, and Davidson College will never find anyone to adequately replace him in those fields. In the classroom, Dr. Goodykoontz has been the type of professor this college needs fifty more of—a dedicated, inspiring educator with an amazing knowledge of his field. He has a concept of education that too few people at Davidson understand—that mere facts presented in a straight lecture hardly tend to encourage personal pursuit of knowledge and understanding outside the classroom. His departure will leave a hole in the ranks of what liberals there are among the faculty, as he has been the focal point and guiding light of the liberal element on campus. That is the tragedy of the whole affair. Davidson is losing one of its finest professors because what began as a legitimate attempt to express dissatisfaction with the administration's attitude toward creativity here was allowed to turn into a personal attack which eventually exceeded any acceptable ethical bounds.

For Creativity...

An attempt must now be made to explain and emphasize just what the earliest and most important issues of the controversy were. Dr. Goodykoontz hit at the abstract core of one of Davidson’s saddest problems—an atmosphere that by its very nature stifles creative effort. Try this for size: the chairman of the Davidson Board of Trustees, J. McDowell Richards, was asked in a forum, “In what way is a faculty member free?” Richards answered, “He does not have the freedom to teach what he wants. However, he does have the freedom to think as he wishes and the freedom to leave.” (THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 19, 1960) Or this, President D. Grier Martin, when asked about students participating in picketing demonstrations, “So long as students do not do anything illegal or violent, Davidson would as far as I know institute no action against them.” (THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 26, 1963) Ever heard of academic freedom or civil disobedience?

But there is more. Try taking an administration with no outstanding liberal voice, a largely uninterested student body with few outspoken liberals and a faculty with even fewer. Add all that together, apply perpetual pressure from all directions in deference to the trustees, and voila, Davidson College. Here are a few of the more obvious problems involved in the matter of freedom of expression. There is little creative writing at Davidson, no sustained creative writing program, and no outlet in the way of a printed booklet for that which is written. Valedictory and salutatory speeches were abolished in 1960 following two controversial speeches. Several faculty members were told not long ago by the Dean of Faculty not to write a letter to the Charlotte newspaper. Senior Class Day was abolished in 1961 following more critical speeches. Students have been instructed as to certain aspects of Davidson College which are not to be criticized. The IFC itself this year abolished skit night, which at least represented an outlet for freshman creativity and which could have been revised in more appropriate form rather than merely eradicated. The organizer of a coming Great Issues program has been told he can invite any speaker to the campus he wishes, Communists and Nazis excepted.

But to return to the idea of a pervading atmosphere, it seems that what the adult members of the Davidson family do not discourage in the way of student creativity and self-expression, the student body itself does. There are hundreds of umbrellas on this campus, and every one is black. Students apparently feel they must abide by certain rules of conduct: if you don't understand something, laugh at it. If you don’t agree with something, deride it. Never under any circumstances let anyone do anything unusual without making a clever and sophisticated remark about it. Remarks like that hurt, and have a decidedly negative effect on anyone attempting to express himself in an unconventional manner.

All the above presents an extremely dark picture, but sometimes a light will flicker, if only briefly. For instance, a student writes a good play and gets a chance to present it to an audience. The Vagabonds’ Hootenanny attracted wide student participation and played to a full house. Sometimes a student gets mad and lashes out in a letter or simply in a bull session trying to explain a new insight he has had into something. Once in a great while, a fraternity gets together and decides to put on a play for a drama contest. Occasionally someone decides they don’t like segregation and does something about it—maybe even goes picketing. And once upon a May Day, a group of students got together and held a unique celebration.

Each of these few examples represents an instance of self-expression and creativity. In many of these and similar instances, spontaneity is involved, and that is perhaps the most vital element of creativity. But such instances are almost hopelessly sporadic. In a more permissive and tolerant atmosphere than the one now existing at Davidson, these spontaneous outbursts of self-expression would come more frequently of their own accord as the stigmas attached to individuality and novelty disappeared.

Several positive steps can be taken at this time to help bring such an atmosphere to Davidson. The creative writing course needs to be enlarged, and the new Scripts ‘n Pranks editor is already beginning what may well be the foundations for a creative writing booklet. With the leadership potential this year’s senior class has, it seems strange that they would content themselves with playing no role whatsoever in their own graduation with the exception of paying for a class gift. Why disallow civil disobedience, a concept based on Christian principles? Why not hire a few faculty members with weird ideas? These are only suggestions for the beginning of a program which we hope will eventually lead to the atmosphere we speak of—an atmosphere which not only tolerates, but actively encourages genuine expression of creative and original thought.

The Monster Is Fed...

The most painful words to bite into the withered arm of the Vagabonds are printed elsewhere on this page in a letter by a Davidson sophomore, Dick Levy. Levy has leveled an invective that his fellow students are incapable of withstanding. Few cries of protest will wail from student mouths. Few students will even read the letter. But more tragic, of the few who happen to stray from “Peanuts,” even less will linger long enough to mumble more than, “Oh hell, more of that Vagabond furor.”

The Davidson “gentleman” is neither intellectual nor anti-intellectual. The Davidson “gentleman” is neither religious nor irreligious. The Davidson “gentleman” is neither Democrat nor Republican. The Davidson “gentleman” is apathetic. He is disinterested. His only concerns are sex and scores... grades and grubbing... petting and points... But what other stimulants exist to arouse the nodding “student” from his perpetual slumber? What challenges his imagination? Or more precisely, what prods him out of his oblivion?

The members of the faculty—the educators, the professional stabilizing force in the midst of misguided youth—offer little assistance. Alas, they suffer from the same sickness. Called upon by Dean Richard C. Burts to comment on problems encoun-

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Bill Ruth

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jeff Wampler

Associate Editors
Charles Dibble
Dave Pusey

Managing Editors
Bill Pridgen
Charles Ramberg

Photographers
Rieke von Unwerth

News Editor
Sports EditorAssistant Sports Editor: Nick Lowery
Feature Editor: Tuck Jones
Assignments Editor: Tom Loftin
John Todd
Circulation Manager: By Wright

Complex Science Induces

Under the new cut system, 48 faculty members cooperated. Last week Walter MacDonald, whose series on Davidson is attempting to provide constructive criticism based upon reliable facts, placed in faculty boxes questionnaires on the Great Issues program, the quarter system, and required activities. Of the 94 questionnaires handed out, 17 faculty members condescended to return theirs. In the future, we can only hope that there will be other activities on campus that will eke out the same press accounts that this year's basketball team brought forth: "DAVIDSON—The sleepy little campus in this sleepy little town was wild last night."

Charles L. Dibble
David Stitt
Rick Finch
Jimmy Downey
Joe McCutchen
Buck Lawrimore
Dan Adams
Johnny Wright
Walter MacDonald
Rufus Hallmark
Assistant Bus. Manager: Charlie Smith
Advertising Manager: Irvine Welling
Malcolm Lane

Contributors: Bill Aitken, Jim Graves, Britt Snider, Paul Simpson, Bill Hufford, George Fain, Tom Vinson, Carlton Cole, Bill Logan, Kerr Thompson, John Higgins, Don McKinnon, Greg Govan, Tom Anderson, Forrest Roles, Bob Strauser, and Charlie Shapard.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Ruinous Science Complex
BY RICK von UNWERTH
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Since the days of the original Renaissance Man, gentlemen of quality have trained themselves in a variety of disciplines. Rabelais’ world-renowned Gargantua, in that famous letter, exhorted his son Pantagruel to learn “all there is to be had,” and to return from his studies an “abysm of science.” For several centuries now, the wise have sought acquaintance with the natural sciences as the sine qua non of erudition. At Davidson, we pursue this aim. Eight hours of a science are required in the make-up of the Davidson Product, and rightfully so. Some liberally oriented minds, however, are apparently not geared for detail; some of us, notably those in Biology 12A, find the acquisition of natural principles (however rewarding) a ceaseless source of frustration. The maze of facts and fancy nomenclature is wreaking our destruction:

Benign, the beast surveys his cage...
What obstacle can daunt this sage!
A step, ’til now, in any plane
Had served to assuage each simple pain
No corner sniffed aroused sensation.
Mindless of his situation
The beast conducted leisure quest,
And each time stymied, stopped to rest.
Wand’ring now, unruffled, feeling
Unperturbed the beast went reeling
Down the corridor with a grin...
That’s gone when he comes back again.
Once around to reconnoiter;
Strange... and now he doesn’t loiter,
Casting, with his nostrils wide
He turns to find... A place to hide?
Ears press tense in flat fear-quivers,
Cloying, agonizing shivers,
Met with unexperienced terror.
Neither comprehends his error...
What strange pass confronts the cowering,
Stricken beast with acid-souring
Spittle clogging tongue and nerve?
What inhuman power would serve
Such portion to this nameless wretch?
The beast convulsed. He ventured stretch
A limb to feel the awesome thing
That made his cold flesh throb and ring.
An hour since he stood, was warm,
Secure in innocence of harm.
But now the dread wall loomed before
Him, heard his cry “Where is the door?”
With leering malice, and in hearing
Whimpered pleas, stood rudely jeering.
Mocking harsh and cold denial,
“Beast, you’ve got to stand your trial.”
Whining, mad the beast arose,
His being clutched in frenzied throes
Of wild frustration, gnashing, gnawing,
He fell to with frenetic clawing.
Finding this to no avail
He leapt up, lashed out with his tail
And hurled his frothing body crashing
At the tyrant. Mangled, thrashing,
Helpless, roiling flesh insane,
The Beast could not get up again.

Perhaps this isn’t a fair analysis. Maybe the sequel to this pitiable tale will bring the resolution of the victim’s frustrating dilemma. New light may yet dawn. Haste, however, is imperative—the time of the fallen leaf, the yellow sear (as it were) of the semester is upon us, and the sky over General Biology looks awfully dark from here.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR...

Goodykoontz

Dear Editor:
I do not suppose that anyone who has closely examined my display in the Stowe Gallery will need to be told that the President’s statements in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN are open to question on a number of facts. I write under some handicaps because I do not want to subject the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN or his reporters to further attempts by President Martin’s administration to intimidate them. But since there are readers of THE DAVIDSONIAN who live at a distance and who have no way to check the accuracy of the President’s statements, I must point out one serious error of fact: I did not direct “a great deal” of the material against “the church,” “trustees,” “religious leaders,” or “good friends of the college”—as the President alleges. A careful reading of the material on display will demonstrate to anyone the gross inaccuracy of his charge. Since neither Dean Johnston nor President Martin is willing to debate the issues publicly, and since THE DAVIDSONIAN is not free to reproduce much of the material on display, I hope all readers of THE DAVIDSONIAN, including alumni—as well as trustees and religious leaders—will make an effort to get all the facts before forming judgments.

Bill Goodykoontz

Levy

AN OPEN LETTER TO THE VAGABOND CRUSADERS:

Why the uproar, Dr. Goodykoontz? Why the wrathful indignation, Messrs. Trotter and Chumbley? Why don't you face the issue realistically and admit that there is a large element, probably the greater preponderance of the Davidson College Community, which does not care a hoot whether the Vagabond organization lives on or fades into oblivion? Please don't try to burden us with fine arts and culture. Don’t try to stir us from our pedestrian pursuits. We are content to finish our days at Davidson in pleasant apathy toward all things cultural, intellectual, dramatic, and “arty.” Die quietly, and leave us undisturbed in our painless surface existence!

Richard E. Levy

Thompson

Davis

Dear Editor:
It would seem that Dr. Goodykoontz has outdone himself in his new “production” in the Fine Arts Building. All his other productions fade into insignificance when compared to this new and completely original tragedy. Yes, the production in the Fine Arts Building is a tragedy. It is a tragedy to see the new building with all its facilities, which were intended to give Davidson a better fine arts program, degenerate into a showplace for slanderous sensationalism. It is a tragedy to witness the degeneration of a genius into a frustrated old man. And all the audience seems to react—in spite of a few sad smiles or snickers at the small amount of humor—with pathos. That is, the audience is filled with pity and awe—and above all the feeling of helplessness that there is nothing they can do to end this destructive tirade.

Kerr Thompson

Bill Davis

Ferris

Dear Editor:
During the past two weeks an issue has been developing at Davidson which greatly concerns us students. It is between Dr. Goodykoontz and the administration. In a series of letters to THE DAVIDSONIAN Dr. Goodykoontz and two students have raised questions about the school’s support of drama, debate, and creative writing. Their questions strike at the heart of a problem we must face—the problem of creativity at Davidson. Dr. Goodykoontz has set up a display of material in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building supporting his criticisms. He has also agreed to discuss the problem of creativity at Davidson in an open forum with the president and any other members of the administration willing to participate. The president has been asked twice to participate in this forum and has refused both times. Many students are deeply concerned that the question of creativity at our school cannot be openly discussed. If the administration has valid answers to the questions being raised, why are they refusing to publicly present them in such a forum? Unless this discussion is arranged in the next few days we at Davidson may lose a very great English professor next year and with him the hope for a successful program in the fine arts.

Bill Ferris

Dear Editor:
The administration-Goodykoontz controversy is apparently simmering now and I think the time is ripe for a real examination of the issues raised in the display. The main question that the display originally asked was, “How can a creative atmosphere be attained at Davidson?” Some of the answers pointed to were through an all-literary magazine, a full drama program, and an active debate team. This week Hank Ackerman initiated a study on the possibilities of an all-literary magazine, separate from Scripts 'n Pranks. But what do a full drama program, an active debate team, and a host of other creative programs (such as a writer-in-residence) involve? Primarily they involve a concrete administrative commitment to a real program (especially since monetary support is called for). There must be complete agreement as to the goals and the means to those goals ahead of time.

For this reason, I propose that a forum be arranged involving the president and another member of the administration to clarify these goals and exactly what needs to be done to reach them. A two-way exchange between the students and the administration would be beneficial to both sides and would focus needed attention on the particulars of the future. The main issue at stake is not a budget of the past or personalities of the present. (Though the fact that Davidson has lost one of her finest teachers cannot be overlooked.) The issue is what will be done to stimulate an atmosphere of intellectual creativity in the future. The complexity and importance of the issue demands that it be given a public hearing.

Bill Hagen