Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BILL HAGEN Editor-in-Chief
EP WILLER Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1963
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Progress And The Committee

Sometime in the future, when a student of Davidsoniana reviews the history of the college, he will undoubtedly credit the institution with two major accomplishments for the first semester of the 1962-63 school year. The first was the deceptively unobtrusive admission of a Negro as a student of the college for the first time. Davidson showed that it can shed a tradition when it is proven that that tradition is motivated by something false and brittle. The second accomplishment was the new cut system, giving the students unparalleled freedom and responsibility with regard to attending classes. It now appears that the students have maturely used their new freedom in all regards.

It is significant that the groundwork for both of these achievements was done under the auspices of that oft-abused institution known as the committee. In both cases, a committee deserved the lion’s share of the applause. Committees may be ruled-off pigeonholes. Committees may be used as fronts for small ambitions. But this time two committees came through with the goods.

It should come as no surprise to discover that committees, particularly two, hold the keys to progress in the coming semester. The Committee on Religious Life and the Committee on Fraternities and Social Life are now considering aspects of required religious services and the drinking regulations, respectively. The issues the committees are considering are similar in several respects. Both are concerned with vital areas of the college program. The student body, as a whole, has made its opinions about the issues clear. Finally, a major campus organization has made a commitment in each case. The seriousness of each problem has been more than met by the efforts toward understanding on the part of the students. The results of these efforts are now in the hands of the committees.

Clearly a word no less than “trust” should be used to signify what the students have brought to the committees. Clearly then, we have a right to expect that an adjective no less than “major” will be used to describe the ultimate accomplishments.

The Oath In Committee

Another committee, this time a trustee committee, now holds the fate of the faculty recommendation on the oath in its hands. It appears that the outcome will be a compromise of some sort. One so-called “compromise” that appears likely to be enacted is making the oath part of the private hiring process. This is called a compromise because one of the main objections to the oath is its public administration. But will it really change anything to take the vow underground? Does this mean that the faculty is willing to vow in private what they won’t in public? More important, the coupling of this with the hiring process will leave no room for the qualified dissenter on the faculty. In any case, we hope that the faculty and administration will not cease their efforts until the oath is abolished.

When a college goes out to recruit professors, it is hard enough to find the combination of a good academic background and a real ability to teach. But you add the quality of belief to these two, a quality that many believe should be intensely personal, and you have narrowed your field considerably. There is something to be said from the point of view of religion too. By making belief a prerequisite of job advancement, aren’t you lowering Christianity to the level of a skill?

A story we recently heard is partially applicable here. A bishop had a sink that needed working on and had a choice of two plumbers. One was an excellent plumber but had the reputation of being a devout atheist. The other, a good Christian soul, was a bad plumber. The bishop chose the better plumber.

Needed: More Family Meetings

Unbounded enthusiasm is probably the most important ingredient of success. It would seem to be the case on this campus, a place where success is frequently dependent on student response. Indeed, we suspect that many programs are begun with little else especially when we realize that voluntary programs just don’t make much sense to most students. But we hope the freshmen turn out en masse to support just such a program this Monday in the Union from 9 to 10 p.m. At that time the Union will attempt to hold a massive faculty-freshmen get-together. This is certainly preferable to the impersonal handshaking routine both groups indulge in at the beginning of the year. More important though is that, if successful, such social affairs could be extended to include all the classes in the student body. In spite of conversations in Chambers and visiting after vespers, there is still a gap in student-professor relations. The energetic attempts of Messrs. Shaw, Cole, and Co. to use the Union to fill this gap deserve applause. And response.

Noted In Passing...

Denis Baly, the Danforth Lecturer who visited the campus last week, had an interesting opinion about required religious services. He said, “I think you should only require attendance at a program that absolutely no one should miss. But if the program is that good, you won’t need to require attendance.”

Baly said that the trustees at Kenyon College, Ohio unanimously abolished compulsory religious services a few years ago. Attendance dropped off sharply the first year but, through stimulating programs, it has been built up again.

Now Kenyon students are trying to get rid of their limited cut system.

It was interesting to note how fast the Freshman Council dropped the idea of making formal criticism of the Union's food service as soon as the second semester began. Sounds as if someone put a pill of forgetfulness in the fraternity gravy.

One thing that required chapel teaches us is Stoic resignation. Notice that most people sat all the way through the Stan Ruben Concert.

Staff

Associate Editor Knox Abernethy
Editorial Assistant Jim Williams
Assistant Editor Bill Ruth
Managing Editors David Stitt, Jeff Wampler
Sports Editor Bill Pridgen
Assignments Editor Charles Ramberg
Feature Editor Tom Loflin
News Editor Charles Dibble
Assistant News Editor Jimmy Downey
Photographers Joe McCutchen, Buck Lawrimore
Cartoonists Dan Adams, Joe Howell, Walter MacDonald, Rufus Hallmark
Advertising Manager Charlie Smith
Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane
Assistant Bus. Manager Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Conference Pinata

By Adams

Europe-Bound This Year? NSA Can Help You Save

BY DUDLEY SALLEY
NSA Student Travel Representative

If one has already read Gadsby and Lord of the Flies and done everything everybody else is doing, then one is no doubt going to the Continent this summer, and if so, one should make some definite plans now rather than

‘Catch-22'... A Nightmare Or A New Way Of Life?

BY BILL TROTTER

CATCH-22 (463 pp.) JOSEPH HELLER SIMON AND SCHUSTER, DELL Hardbound ($5.95), Paperback ($.75).

There is a catch of course ... Yossarian can be medically excused from combat flying, but first he must be diagnosed as crazy ... but then, no one who wants to be excused from combat flying is crazy. This is a part of the ruling which gives Joseph Heller's run-away sensation of a book its title. The characters strongly suspect that Catch-22 does not exist in the rule books, but that doesn’t matter, because the world is set up to enforce it anyway. Another one of the rule's provisions is that the military have the right to do anything they can't be stopped from doing.

CATCH-22 should be banned. It’s a dangerous book. No intelligent person who reads it can ever be the same again. It is a dangerous book because it questions every aspect of authority, of bureaucracy, of the military, in fact, of just about every major feature of modern society. And the terribly dangerous thing it does, is make them all look as ridiculous as they are. This book is more than just a remarkable novel; it is a way of life. Philip Toynbee has gone so far as to call it “the greatest satirical work in English since Erewhon.” Closer to home, our own Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz, center of the devoted circle of Heller fans on campus, proclaims the work to be among the finest masterpieces of our time. He has read it three times.

It would be impossible to attempt to render the madly intricate and super-imposed plot structure into anything other than its own terms. In general, the novel is the story of Yossarian, a young man flying as bombardier in an American Army Air Force squadron in Italy during the last year of the War. His colonel continues to raise the number of missions the men must fly, resulting in the slow mental and physical deterioration of their souls and bodies. From this normal-seeming framework, Heller creates a world of screaming madness, maniacal laughter, complex and impossible situations which become agonizingly real through his skill as a writer. He writes passionately, intensely to the point of almost obscene force. His characters dance and bellow and howl across the pages—the action rages with unflagging tempo, and the book hits hard, and hits low. The reader soon forgets that this is fantasy, surrealism, soon stops trying to keep track ofthe shifting and arbitrary time-continuum, and begins to accept this world as real. Somewhere in the pages of the book, the reader discovers to his terror and amusement, that it is real... that Heller has shown us our society in a funhouse mirror which focuses our sight on the madness, the foolishness, the ludicrous incongruities, which lie beneath the outer surface. The book juxtaposes time, events, and characters; themes recur and vanish like melodic threads in a vast symphony; the work is contrapuntal, and all the elements of its fugue reach a stunning climax in the last fifty pages. The predominant tone of the book is humorous, and Heller's humor is infinite in tone and variety—it ranges from blasphemous, savage, devastating satire, to gentle and tender irony. It is bawdy, outrageous, and raw. It is not a polite book; but it is a profound one.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Martin Hits Criticism Of LaHarry Handling

Dear Editor:

Two reports in THE DAVIDSONIAN on the visit of Mr. Nitish LaHarry of India require comment. The article on page one criticized the “Administration” for “talking with him about the many accomplishments of Davidson” and the editorial criticized the “Administration” for requesting several students to ask prepared questions of Mr. LaHarry.

Mr. LaHarry was brought to Davidson a little before 10 o’clock Monday morning by Mr. C. W. Gilchrist, an alumnus of Davidson and a director of Rotary International. Mr. LaHarry asked whether there could be a question and answer period following a brief talk. I indicated that this would be entirely satisfactory but that we had not had this type of assembly program recently and that the questions might not come immediately. He then asked if we would have distributed several questions which he prepared.

The only reference to Davidson’s accomplishments was by Mr. LaHarry who said, “I understand that Dean Rusk and Woodrow Wilson were alumni of Davidson,” to which I promptly replied that Mr. Wilson was here for only one year. It is perhaps understandable that a person from Asia would not comprehend the importance of his “error.”

D. Grier Martin

As the ending approaches, Heller suddenly strips away the humor, and for page after page, shocking, brutal realism replaces the fantasy, realism handled surrealistically, creating a fantasy like a nightmare. In a series of stark incidents, Heller reveals the seriousness of his hilarity. There is a message in his madness. His message has been summed up flippantly by himself: “This is a world where the keepers are as looney as the inmates...” Heller is grinding an axe, openly, and without apologies. For it is the heavy axe all sensitive people must carry in a world where brutality and regimentation pass for normalcy. One by one, the author levels his sights on capitalism, on bureaucracy, on military stupidity and narrowness, on pretentious morality, and with ruthless, inescapable satire, blows them to pieces while the reader watches, enthralled, delighted, and aghast.

CATCH-22 ought to be required reading for all politicians, educators, ministers, and, above all, for all young men faced with military service, especially as officers. The real danger of the book, and perhaps the most liberating function it performs, is that the reader finds himself beginning to see the world in Heller's terms, begins to see just how bombastic and foolish so much of it is, remembers that Heller also shows how laughter and decency can escape the machinations of a blind society, and begins to wonder just how much of it he can get away with himself.

From Harvard

Cambridge, Mass. — (I.P.) — A new dormitory plan, to improve freshman advising and to increase informal give-and-take between freshmen and faculty, advisers, and intellectual and civic leaders, will greet the Class of 1966 when they arrive in Harvard Yard this fall.

For advising and for informal intellectual activities, the 15 freshman dormitories will be organized into five units, each with about 200 to 250 freshmen as members. A Senior Adviser will direct each unit, with the assistance of hall proctors and faculty associates. Each unit will have its own common room, as a center for informal discussions and meetings, and each unit will have its own program of activities. Offices are provided for the use of non-resident advisers. Many of the discussions will center on two subjects of perennial importance to freshmen—the choice of a major field of study and the choice of a career.

The resident Senior Adviser in each unit will act as an assistant dean for the students in the unit. The reorganization has been designed to improve the advising of freshmen as well as to increase informal intellectual activity during the freshman year.

In June, the student council desires to help Davidsonians in this venture make their contribution to the gold drain as insignificant as possible and has made available the less expensive Educational Travel programs. The programs are coordinated with European student unions, are co-ed, and non-profit making. They range from general tours designed to “contrast the miraculous spirituality of Mont-Saint-Michel and Chartres with the brilliant sophistication of Paris and the Riviera” for $750, plus transportation in little letters, to “Hobo” itineraries for about half that if one likes Dutch cheese.

There are several university-sponsored special study groups. The one in France combines two weeks of family living in Normandy with another four in more formal study at the Sorbonne in Paris. In Florence, a Bucknell University group will stay in a nearby villa for six weeks to study the art and architecture of the Renaissance city and of other parts of Italy. Several other universities offer study-travel programs to Music and Art Festivals, and in the fields of European Communications and Politics and Economics.

The spirit of adventure should continue next fall in transferring these travel appreciation credits. If, however, one desires to do something everybody else is doing only more so, the NSA has a 41-day expedition to Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, which should make one something of an oddity, and place him in great demand for speaking engagements with local Rotary Clubs and we-love-everybody rallies, as well as on the DAR black list. (It is possible that quality points may be given for this as Eco 1984.) There are also groups off to South America, Greece, and Israel, and one off to everywhere all at once called the “Whirlwind.”

NSA publishes the Handbook on Student Travel, a guide to student hostels and general price concessions available to students in 28 countries. Work, Study, Travel Abroad is also available. The annual publication is a comprehensive guide to individual travel, educational tours, summer sessions and seminars abroad, scholarships, work camps, transportation, and sundry quaint customs. The Traveling Student is a listing of intra-European charter transportation. The NSA is also the issuing agent for the International Student ID cards, which if they weighed more would be worth their weight in gold in free admissions and discounts. For particulars check by 301 Little or the YMCA office. This is an informing service and not advertising intended to detract from other travel programs of firms, the ROTC department, or individuals.

A film’s tone depends on its subject, its treatment, or a combination of these. In JULES AND JIM, next week’s movie feature at the Union, French director Francois Truffaut has created a lighthearted comedy out of a potentially sad tale. Jules, an Austrian, and Jim, a Frenchman, are Bohemian comrades sharing their money, recreation, and girlfriends in the carefree Paris of 1912. Their communal relationship is ended when Jules falls in love with and marries a passionately impulsive French girl, Catherine. Jim, with similar taste, covets his companion’s wife, but keeps himself respectfully discreet. World War I forces the two men into opposing foxholes, and each fears he may have killed the other. They both survive and plan a reunion. Jim visits Jules, Catherine, and their daughter in Germany. There he discovers that Catherine has taken several lovers but that Jules is satisfied as long as she remains with him. Not to miss the bandwagon, Jim begins (with Jules’ knowledge) his own affair with Catherine. The dissolution of this novel arrangement is the subject of the final portion of the film.

This story might read like a chapter from “Young Doctor Malone Tours Europe,” but under the spontaneous and enthusiastic handling of Truffaut, JULES AND JIM emerges as tragedy turned gaiety or drama turned fantasy. The whimsical results are as delightful as adolescent affairs could possibly be. Yet the pace is at times exuberant to the point of structural weakness (e.g. comic incidents may get more attention than their relation to the subject warrants). Such a lack of unity is prevented by three excellent performances that blend the director’s enjoyable extremes into a plausible range and strengthen the unexpected climax of the story. Throughout its giddy development, JULES AND JIM retains a comic flavor and, though the final event questions the light abandon of our smile, its humor is genuine. Truffaut has attempted a unique and happy tilt to the eternal triangle, and he has skillfully achieved it.

SO WHAT HAVE YOU DECIDED?

SO I'VE DECIDED TO BE A VERY RICH AND FAMOUS PERSON WHO DOESN'T REALLY CARE ABOUT MONEY, AND WHO IS VERY HUMBLE BUT WHO STILL MAKES A LOT OF MONEY AND IS VERY FAMOUS, BUT IS VERY HUMBLE AND RICH AND FAMOUS.