FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1963

Side Lights:
BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

THE BUBBLE BURST?

This Monday the soccer team absorbed their first defeat of the season at the hands of North Carolina State. For
many, this was the end of a dream—that of national recognition for Davidson. Yet, the whole matter of national recognition
for soccer is a rather vague and little-known process.

Due to the expanding interest in soccer among colleges in the country, the National Collegiate Athletic Association has expanded the
national championship soccer tournament into a sixteen-team affair. The teams that make up this tournament are selected by a National
Selections Committee on the basis of season records. Two teams are selected from each of the country’s six divisions (including
the South) along with four at-large entries to complete the field. These selections are based upon a complicated point-rating system
computed by wins and losses and the rating of the opponent.

In the first round of the national to be played between November 21 and 25, the two regional selections are
paired against one another and the at-large teams matched. The eight winners then advance to the regionals. In the Regionals,
the Southern winner would play the Mid-Atlantic winner; at the same time, other regional winners and the two at-large winners
would vie against one another. The four winners of the regionals would then advance to the semi-finals and finals to
be held at Rutgers on December 5-7.

Davidson at the present time “has an excellent chance to receive a bid, if we remain undefeated.” (Coach Foglman). The
four teams considered the best in this area all play each other. So far, Davidson has beaten two of these
teams and lost to State. State at the same time has been beaten by North Carolina and North Carolina and
Duke must still play each other. The biggest obstacle to a Davidson bid would seem to be in the fact
that also in the Southern Division are two of the most powerful teams in the land—Maryland (no. 2 in America
the last two years) and Navy. How the presence of these two powerhouses will affect Davidson's chances for a bid
remains to be decided by the National Selection Committee.

There is one further consideration which muddies the outcome of the soccer season: the National Tournament to be held at
Rutgers is for major college teams. Davidson qualifies due to its schedule for this tournament, but there is also a
tournament for the National Collegiate Small College Division to be held at Tufts College and Davidson qualifies for the second
tournament. Obviously, a team cannot receive bids from two tournaments sponsored by the same organization, but the question as to
which tournament Davidson can be invited has not been determined. At the present time, the athletic office is in communication
with the NCAA officials to determine the alternatives open to this year’s team.

Such alternatives raise the speculation as to which tournament Davidson should attend if given the option. To be perfectly frank,
the major college tournament could involve competition with a team which gives as many as 10 soccer scholarships and could
very well mean elimination in the opening round. The small college tournament, on the other hand, is made up of
schools who either do not subsidize soccer (Davidson) or do so only in a limited way. The choice is no
easy one. In one direction lies prestige and almost assured defeat. In the other direction lies the possibility of advancement
and perhaps a championship.

Any mention of national tournaments involves a great deal of speculation and bubble blowing. So, for the present time, perhaps
the bubble blowing ought to take a second seat to the playing lest the bubble break and the beginnings of
an excellent soccer season disappear into apathy over pipe dreams.

HOMECOMING FOOTBALL...

Amidst the smells of autumn and those of the other sex, Davidson’s winless football team searches for its first victory
tomorrow against Presbyterian. Lest Davidson’s record suggests that anything written about them is done in the form of an apology,
I hope to correct that suggestion. In Davidson's last two outings I can’t find that much about which to apologize.
Three weeks ago the ’Cats tied VMI, a team that last week lost to nationally ranked Navy by one touchdown.
Last week Davidson lost to a heavily favored Richmond squad who had previously been beaten by Florida (35-28) by one
touchdown.

Surely too much boasting cannot be done about one tie and one loss. Just as surely, Davidson was beaten by
Richmond. The statistics of the game were decidedly and accurately one-sided but Davidson could have won—a pass interception choked off
an offensive drive inside. In the loss, there were two noticeable bright spots. One was the mental attitude of the
team, reported by all observers of the game to be extremely high. It appears that at least the football team
hasn’t given up on itself. They were just beaten by a better team.

The second bright spot was the play of senior Earl Cole. Cole, playing quarterback and defensive back, turned in more
individual tackles than anyone on the field, constantly stopping the Richmond backs at the line of scrimmage. Cole’s play did
not go entirely unnoticed. He was nominated by the press for the Southern Conference back of the week. In the
results of the last two contests, the football team has nothing for which to be ashamed. Perhaps this is best
reflected in the fact that they were up for the Richmond contest. But pride is another matter and nothing supplies
that like winning.

HOMECOMING...

A “nice” time. Homecoming is a “nice” time. A “nice” time for everyone and especially a “nice” time for a
win. Unfortunately, Presbyterian will not lie down and die and be “nice.” Nothing short of an outstanding effort will win.
I’ll climb out again and predict a “nice” win.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE FIVE

Davidson And PC Meet

From an optimistic beginning, victory has spitefully eluded Davidson, hiding behind mistakes and even bad breaks. Determination to win, however,
can produce results; tomorrow could be a happy homecoming for the Davidson team, students, and alumni.

BY JIM BEASLEY

easy game with them.” Last year’s 13-9 win was no exception. One of their players, quarterback Leighton Grantham, has a
special grudge against Davidson. His father and grandfather came here, but he was turned away. According to scouting reports...

THIS WEEK'S HOMECOMING TRI-CAPTAINS Dave Lopp, Dick Fulp, and Lyle Blalock break from practice to pose for the cameras. (Photo
by Smith)

Davidson's greater depth proved the difference as five of the first six wore the red and black.

TOMMY HEFFNER, RONNIE REESE, DENNY PHILLIPS, JOHN BARROW, AND ANDY LITTLE break through the foliage in a vain attempt to
catch the leaders in Friday's loss to Furman. (Photo by Smith)

Upsets Mark Flickerball Action

As flickerball moves into its final week, two things are obvious: days are getting shorter and almost nobody is immune
to defeat. Even those teams who seem to have developed the greatest immunity have had their share of close calls.
The Phi Delts, for example, experienced the first half trauma of almost losing to the SAE's. The “sons of Minerva”
led 6-0 at halftime but the Delts came back with three touchdowns in the second half to win 19-6.

In the SAE-Sigma Nu game, the tables were turned. The Nu's were leading by only one touchdown with less than
two minutes to go; the SAE’s were inside the Nu 18-yard line. “Grub” Oehler preserved the victory by intercepting a
pass and taking it all the way back. Freshman Ricky Pfitzner looked good all afternoon at tailback for the Nu's.

Another upset resulted from the Beta-KA clash. Jimmy Lewis and Jim Killebrew, the wide halfbacks for the Betas, have looked
good all year and were instrumental in the upset. In the excuse department, end Haynes Kelly missed the game for
the KA's.

“Coyote” Smith, wearing a light blue sweatshirt that got lighter as the day got darker, intercepted three passes for the
Sigma Chis, as they smothered the white-clad ATO’s. The “other Sigs” also pulled out another win over the Sig Eps.
Temporary defensive lapses gave Sig Ep...

Frosh-Soph BB Game Opens Annual Spat

BY FORREST ROLES

In a thrill-packed game, the Sophomore Class pulled out a 71-68 overtime victory over the freshmen in the opening action
of freshman field day. Dick Snyder led the sophomores with 28 points and Dick Byrd led the freshmen with 21.
Behind 65-61...With 1:44 to go in the regular period, the freshmen tied the game on an outside shot by Byrd
and a lay-up by Joe Williamson. The sophomores froze the ball until 10 seconds were left, but they failed to
get off a shot when Snyder was heavily covered. In the overtime, the freshmen took an early three-point lead on
a pump shot by Williamson and Barry St. Clair’s foul shot, but in the last three minutes and 22 seconds,
they failed to score. Snyder brought the margin down to one point with a hook shot with 2:11 left; Ron
Stone put the sophomores ahead to stay with a layup at 1:15, and foul shots by Stone and Rufus Adair
put the game out of reach. Freshman Coach Perry Holland insisted that it was far too early to judge how
good his team now is or will be. “We haven't had time to organize yet,” he said, “but I expect
big things from these boys.”

LEARN TO BOX! Be a master in the art of self-defense. Expert trainers’ secrets can be yours! No equipment needed.
Form a campus boxing club among your friends for fun, self-confidence, and real physical fitness. Complete brochure and lessons one
dollar. Send to: PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, 363 Clinton Street, Hempstead, Long Island, New York.

Denny Phillips, in a turnabout, took first place with a fast 21:30 clocking over the 4.2-mile course. He was followed
closely by John Barrow and Tommy Heffner, both winners in previous meets. Andy Little and Ronnie Reese captured fifth and
sixth places coming in under 22 minutes. Davidson's pushers finished mixed in with the pack, with persistent Steve Bunch fighting
a sustained rear-guard action. Furman, as expected, took its meet with host Davidson last Friday, but the ‘Cat harriers managed
to make it a close 25-30. The Paladin contingent was just too strong in capturing the first three places. As
Coach Heath Whittle pointed out, even if Davidson could have taken the next seven places, the ‘Cats would have still
lost by one point. As it was, Davidson did manage to take the next five places with Barrow, Heffner, Reese,
Phillips, and Little crossing the line in that order. Coach Whittle, in commenting on the two meets, felt that the
team had made good showings and was encouraged by “the continued improvement. As things stand now,” he continued, “we're pointing
for the State Meet in Raleigh on Nov. 4th.”

The Freshman harriers also lost to Furman on Friday, but by a more lopsided 18-40 score. Still, Bob Sjorgren, who
took fourth, and Robert Dean, sixth, turned in commendable times in breaking 11 minutes. This Friday the Frosh will meet
Wingate, with the outlook good for a victory.

Tailback Lenny Turner found several openings, but in the end, the Sig defense proved equal to the job. With less
than a minute to go, the Phi Gams trailed the KA's 25-24, after having led by two touchdowns earlier in
the half. In a desperation gamble, the Phi Gams gave up a touchdown and stopped the extra point in order
to gain possession of the ball. The gamble failed, however, and the KA’s hung on to win. Often overlooked defensive
end Rick Brand, averaging two interceptions a game for the Fijis, was again the defensive star. The ATO’s overcame the
Pi Kapps 27-18. Little Dick Cathey, standout at tailback for the Pi Kapps all year, continued to shine even in
defeat.

Soccer Team Drops First To Rugged State Wolfpack
BY ERIC NICHOLS

For the first time this year, Davidson's soccer fans went home disappointed on Monday as the result of a poorly-played
2-1 defeat by N. C. State. As one of the players aptly put it, “We weren’t up enough for this
game. Each team must have its bad game.” The truth of the story lies in the play of the first
half. For the first 44 minutes, the team that had conquered Duke six days earlier was over-confident, out-played, and out-hustled
man for man. This lack of teamwork was directly related to the 1-0 halftime score favoring the enthusiastic State squad.
As the third period opened up, the Wildcats began their familiar aggressive play. Davidson’s offense literally swept the field as
numerous attempts were made at the well-guarded Wolfpack cage. The closing minutes of the third quarter brought the most satisfaction
to an expectant crowd as halfback Jan Brakel climaxed a penalty kick and three corner kicks with a well-directed headshot
into the corner of the cage. The post-climactic fourth quarter was marked by a general slowing down on the part
of both teams. State held the edge as they generally beat Davidson to the ball. Both squads made a concentrated
effort to break the tie and repeatedly brought the ball within scoring range. The Wolfpack offensive effort finally came through
with a precision play. The ball was brought down the side, controlled by short passes, and then came a cross
and the ball was neatly deposited in the Davidson goal to break Wildcat hopes of a perfect season.

After The Game Visit The TASTEE Cornelius for Pizza, Hamburgers, Hot Dogs

The Magnificent Seven Cup Split In Week's Competition
BY DAVID POWELL

Despite a loss last Friday to Furman, Davidson's cross-country team rebounded on Tuesday to score decisive victories over Old Dominion
and Richmond, 17-38 and 15-41. The meet, held at Richmond, was tri-way but was scored on a two-way basis.

He is a fine passer. Another standout is fullback Randy McCranie, one of their leading ground gainers. One bright spot
showing through last week's 13-21 loss to Richmond was the ‘Cats’ passing attack. Led by quarterback Earl Cole, who has
completed 27 of 54 passes this year, the ‘Cats gained 110 yards through the air. In addition to his passing,
Cole did a fine job at defensive halfback, climaxed by a pass interception on the Davidson 10. He raced 80
yards before he was stopped. Then a Davidson lineman downfield on second down with five to go nullified a pass
interference penalty which would have put the ball on the one-yard line, first down and goal to go. Instead, it
was again second and five. After two unsuccessful line plunges and a pass attempt, the ball went over to Richmond.
Davidson's first scoring play was set up by a nine-yard pass from Cole to Steve Heckard and a 14-yard run
by Dave Lopp. Benny Coxton scored from the three-yard line. The second Davidson score was the result of a 10-yard
pass from Cole to Heckard. Split end Heckard is averaging over 12 yards a catch, having received 12 passes this
season. One of the most versatile players on the squad, he has a 33-yard punting average, holds for extra points
and field goals, and as safety has returned four punts for a 28-yard average. He is expected to repeat his
fine performance against P.C. last year when he scored on a 33-yard pass from Cole. The major defensive weakness against
Richmond was the Wildcat right end position. Big 215-pound halfback Jim Fuller was moved to this defensive position in practice
this week. He is expected to remedy the situation. The two-team system employed in the last two games will be
used again tomorrow. The 'Cats are in good physical shape with only tackle Stu Perry expected to miss the game.
He is supposed to return against Lehigh. Game captains are seniors Dave Lopp, Lyle Blalock, and Dick Fulp.

Sherman’s
1517 Central Ave.
Phone 376-7551
COTSWOLD SHOPPING CENTER
Phone 366-6474

Good Luck WILDCATS!

Reaches New Heights of Versatility
The Alpine Maincoat by London Fog

Its lining zips out with the greatest of ease. Throughout the year, this will be your favorite coat. When it’s
cold and snowy or rainy and misty, you'll be protected by the Alpine Maincoat’s thick, deep Pile lining with attached
warm sleeve linings, and its water repellent shell made of LONDON FOG's exclusive Nord Cloth (100% long staple cotton). And
when it’s clear and warmer, just zip out the lining and wear the coat in cool comfort, while everyone admires
the way you look. Smartly tailored stand-up collar, split shoulder. Shell in tan, olive, or black; zip-out liner in gold-flecked
black. $39.95

Rush Wilson, Ltd.
