PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1963

Tough With Blackjack Clubs

Student At P. O. A Witness As Told To Tom Loflin

Ed. note: The crime wave of Charlotte, the Spearhead of the South in that category, washed north Monday night and struck Davidson College.

“If you wanted to start a little war up there, you picked the wrong place to do it,” Judge Winfred Ervin of the County Recorder's Court told Johnny Jenkins at his trial Wednesday for his assault charge on Davidson student Bill Haile.

Bill, my fraternity brother (Sig Ep), was strolling across the campus Monday night about nine. He was heading for the Phi Hall to study. Just before he got to the college well, three dark figures started to pass him. Suddenly he found himself on the wrong end of a punch. His glasses flew one way but he recovered from the shock of the blow and fought back. The struggle ended in a stalemate.

After the three left him, Bill came and got me and Jim Littrell, Flash Foster, Jimmy Downey, Joe McCormack, Cary Baton, and some freshmen to help find his glasses. With the aid of a spotlight, after 45 minutes searching, we finally found them in the grass.

We went down to the post office. As we came out, we encountered the three who had jumped Bill earlier. All of them were peering at him and laughing about how he had ‘brought a whole mob of college students to fight them.’ Bill asked Jenkins if he were the one that fought him earlier. The townie only laughed and kept saying ‘Let's fight: let's go!’ They began to scuffle, and Bill aimed a kick at his groin. But he missed and only got a thigh instead. Then he began to back Jenkins behind the post office and toward the railroad tracks. One of the other townies went along. But I stayed with the third one. He was a real nasty kid and kept telling me, ‘I’m going to cut you up.’

Bill then came back and told us that Jenkins ran from him and said he was going to get his gun to shoot us all. We waited in front of the P.O. out of curiosity to see what would happen. Every time a car came by, Littrell and Foster would run behind the P.O., fearing that something like you see in The Untouchables might happen.

Then a car drove up, and the three townies got out. They held their hands in their back pockets like they might have weapons. We didn’t know what they had. They demanded a fight. Littrell and Foster went to call the county police. The rest of us started backing the three behind the post office again. When we got behind the building, Bill and Jenkins started scuffling. The rest of us watched. Suddenly the townie pulled a dark object from his pocket and hit Bill on the head with it. Bill did not go down. The townie swung again, and the object flew out of his hand and by me. I picked it up. It was a blackjack and a real wicked thing with a flexible handle, a weight wrapped in black tape, and lead weights dangling from the end.

When I looked around again, Bill was on top of the townie and had a stranglehold on him. Then Dean Burts and a group of boys came down and broke the affair up. Later the county police heard about the blackjack and arrested Jenkins on the charge of simple assault. At the trial, the judge changed the charge to assault with a deadly weapon and turned the 19-year-old over to the probation officer who will work out a program to help him. I understand the college is now studying a way to light our campus.

Honor Court (Continued From Page One)

Honor Court has the duties to educate the student body in regard to the Honor System, to investigate and to try possible violations of the Honor Code and the student body regulations, and to encourage honesty in every way it can. But lest one believe that the Honor System is something that six seniors, four juniors, and two sophomores are going to impose on nine hundred students — “every student has an individual responsibility to uphold the Honor System.” Each student is to learn, abide by, and report violations of the Honor Code and the Student Body Regulations. And each is to be a cooperative enterprise from which each participant will reap the benefits of an honest environment.

Questioned as to the more pragmatic efforts of the Honor Court to educate the student and “to encourage honesty,” Arbuckle said: “The present Honor Court has gone out on a limb trying to emphasize the positive aspects of the Honor System, rather than the negative.” As examples of this, he pointed first to the court's handling of dormitory discourtesy—an individual is given an informal warning and a formal letter before trial and possible punishment on the third violation. Second, he revealed that the court last year knew the names of students gambling in fraternity houses, but felt that a fair warning was sufficient. In both of these instances of violations of the student body regulations, “the second chance has been given—liberality here can be stretched no further. Students have been warned of the consequences of further violations; and the court has made its policies more firm and its expectations clearer.”

Further, since “the court cannot encourage honesty by letting dishonest acts go unnoticed,” Arbuckle felt two warnings needed to be given: First, the Davidson tradition of stealing road signs, beer displays, and so on to decorate dorms is basically a dishonest act and will be tried under student body regulations. Second, cases of inaccurate vespers and Sunday morning attendance reports have been occurring. These will be dealt with as Honor Court violations.

Severity the court has been accused of, largely because several students have been expelled in the last few years. But as Arbuckle said: “The Court is not concerned with the student body charge of being severe. In many cases to perform its function adequately the court must be severe. The court, however, is concerned with being labeled as unduly severe.”

Finally, Arbuckle added that in cooperation with Student Body President John Spratt, a proposal is being discussed which would consider the trunks of student cars as being off-campus. Thus, students would “honestly” keep liquor “on-campus” and the Davidson ostrich could pull its head out of the sand. However, Arbuckle wondered if students had proved themselves capable and mature enough for such a liberalization.

Martin Trip (Continued From Page One)

perience. “Most of our experiences were unusual, I guess you might say,” declared Dr. Martin. “No one of them sticks especially in my memory. It certainly was something to meet all those young men and realize that they were once students here, though. I was surprised, but I had a hard time keeping track of all of them and remembering just when they were here.”

Mrs. Martin said the strangest feeling they experienced was in Sept., when they were in Edinburgh. “We suddenly realized that school had already opened back here, that the freshmen were settled, and that the faculty tea for new students was over with—and we hadn’t thought a thing about it!” She went on to say, “It may seem strange, but I guess our most meaningful experiences were those that are deeply personal and would not mean much to anyone else.” But then, that’s not too unusual. Is it not that way with most who travel afar?

Academic Probation (Continued From Page One)

probation regulation, without decreasing the penalty of it, increases the chances of endangering the benefits from extracurricular organizations.”

In desiring to answer particular questions about the effect of athletics on a student, Prof. Martin studied and compiled data on both the football and basketball teams. He found out that men in such extracurricular activities do not reflect any more underachievement or negligence than the rest of the student body.

The Executive Committee said that it will propose that the Faculty do away with placing a freshman on probation due to his grade report in the first six weeks of his college career. It will ask, if this proposal is not accepted, that it be possible for freshmen to be removed from probation at mid-semester. Such a liberalizing trend here indicates that there is a definite possibility of the committee's recommending that any student be freed from probation at any grading period if he has met requirements.

Two other recommendations have been made by outside sources, and it is possible that both may be presented for the approval of the Faculty. One is that students on probation be allowed to have four cuts for one semester; or, if it is decided that probation be only for each grading period, that two cuts be allowed for each such period (of one-half semester duration). It is true that students on probation need at times to take cuts for constructive purposes. They should be allowed to have a minimum number, say the advocates of this idea.

The other proposal is, instead of a student, coach, or organizational director having more responsibility placed on him by severe academic probation requirements, to put more responsibility where it belongs—on the faculty. Every student on probation would have a weekly conference with professors in whose courses he was meeting with failure. Such a program, proponents argue, would not be mere harassment of a failing student, but rather action of a positive nature designed to help solve specific student problems and point up reasons for the student's failure.

The Faculty meeting will be important for every student at Davidson, for, at times, even good students fall below standards. And every student is certainly interested in the success of the extracurricular programs of the college. Whatever the result, the entire Student Body will benefit—or suffer.

Liquor Study Shows Less Than Expected

Less liquor on campus than had been expected, the amount decreasing from upper to lower classes, and a large amount carried “on the person” over the weekend is the report of the liquor poll taken last Monday after the Homecoming Weekend as reported by Student Council President John Spratt at the council’s meeting this week. He stressed that Student Council and Honor Court members were honor bound to report violations and then asked that the numerical results of the poll not be publicized.

Spratt brought up the question of the Freshman Regulations at the meeting and met with two schools of thought on the subject. There seemed to be two almost equal groups on the issue, and the battle was pitched against the regulations. They were “childish and purposeless” in the eyes of councilman Walter MacDonald. Freshman Advisor Tommy Stafford was in favor of dropping the regulations since the freshmen had done their part in building the bonfire and a tie in football was considered a win by the freshmen. Fred McQuirt said he rather enjoyed the regulations and

Charlotte, Davidsonians meet At the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Albergotti
Fogleman
Martin, D. G.
Secor
Blackwell
Fredericksen
Meeks
Terry
Bliss
Hogan
Patterson, E. F.
Wheaton
Clark
McGavock
Partridge
Workmansaid that every class should go through them as something to look back upon. Hill Wellford was in favor of two weeks of strict enforcement of the regulations. Sophomores Dave Hardeman and Arnie Snider felt that the Field Day results required some penalty on the freshmen since they had lost. When the issue came to vote, it was 8-6 against ending the regulations. It was then unanimously decided that the freshmen should wear coats, ties, and name tags through Friday.

Spratt discussed the National Student Association debate and said that a referendum would be no sooner than two weeks. Hardeman announced a regional meeting of the NSA which will be held at N.C. State College in Raleigh over the weekend of Nov. 15-16. Among other things discussed by the Student Faculty Conference at their meeting on Thursday, according to Spratt, the new Academic Probation Rules were scrutinized, a motion was discussed which would allow Catholics and Jews to attend the nearest house of worship and receive credit for attendance at vespers, and President Martin’s approval was asked on the question of a Communist speaker for a second semester chapel speaker. Spratt announced that a vote would be taken at next Monday’s meeting on the election changes proposed by the special committee to investigate the nomination and election system at Davidson. Among these changes, there is a call for a common ballot, which would shorten the time for the whole election procedure, and the new method of nomination.

Duke Dean Delves Into Death Sunday

Dr. James T. Cleland, dean of the chapel at Duke University, will be the Sunday evening vespers speaker. Dr. Cleland's sermon is “Some Reflections of Death,” one of a number of topics chosen by students in a poll taken last year. Dr. Cleland has been at Duke since 1945. Prior to this time, he held a teaching fellowship at Glasgow University Divinity Hall and was associate professor of religion at Amherst College. During his tenure at Duke, he has also held visiting professorships at Union Theological Seminary and at Pacific School of Religion. The son of a Scottish minister, Dr. Cleland graduated from Glasgow University in 1929 with his BD. He then proceeded to Union Theological Seminary in New York City and received his STM in 1928. He has since received his ThD from there. Dr. Cleland holds many honors and honorary degrees, including an honorary DD from Davidson College, Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa membership at Duke, and an honorary DD at Glasgow University. He has been responsible for a number of articles and publications. One of the more noteworthy of these was a series of articles in The Chaplain written as a “Preaching Clinic.”

Regulations Flicker Out; Sophs’ Hopes Thwarted

BY BILL HUFFORD

Beanies, name tags, and no walking on the grass will become a thing of memory as freshmen regulations end at midnight tonight. Many sophomores who participated in the Field Day just to keep the freshmen regulations were disappointed as their efforts were washed down the drain. For according to the Wildcat Handbook, “Regulations shall be in effect until Thanksgiving, unless the Freshmen win the Field Day....” The events leading to the abduction of the regulations showed confusion rampant on the part of the beanie regulators. It all began with the freshmen beanie burn and riot one week before Field Day. Tommy Stafford, freshman advisor, decided not to punish the beanieless freshmen and wait for the inevitable outcome of Field Day. But the sophomores threw the wrench into the mechanics of ending freshmen regulations by whipping the frosh 39-20. Trying to prevent the continuance of the freshmen regulations, John Spratt, president of the Student Council, got up before chapel and told the freshmen if they would build a bonfire for the pep rally and if the football team won, the regulations would end. The football team tried, but didn't quite fulfill the contract by winning. Thus, the regulations were still in effect, technically, but no freshman paid any attention to the rules. Last Monday night, the Student Council narrowly voted to keep the regulations in effect this week by requiring coat and tie. Asked whether this was a defeat for the sophomore class, Dave Hardeman, president of the sophomore class and representative on the Student Council, replied, “Well, in a sense. That’s why we made them wear the coat and tie. We also felt that the purposes of the regulations had been achieved.” Spratt added, “Going all the way to Thanksgiving with the regulations was unthinkable. We couldn’t enforce them.”

The withdrawal of the regulations, therefore, resulted from two things—the achievement of the purpose and the problem of enforcement. The purposes, believes Hardeman, are three: To develop class unity and spirit, to make the freshmen aware that they have as yet given no significant contribution to Davidson, and to continue the tradition. Ben Reeves, president of the Freshman Council, said they had fulfilled their purpose. “The regulations did produce spirit in the freshman class. They have made us realize we just came here.” Enforcement has always been a question this year. Many freshmen didn’t observe the rules at all. Hardeman described the action of the Freshman Court of Control as “somewhat lax,” especially in not punishing the early violators. “If the regulations were better enforced at first,” said Reeves, “the freshmen wouldn’t have minded obeying them.” The punishment was also mild. Of the 20 freshmen to be hauled before the court, the second-time violators were only “disciplined” by writing an essay, helping on field day, or cleaning out the wildcat cage. “I want a lot of changes,” bellowed Stafford. He pointed to two major areas of inconsistency, enforcement and the purpose of the regulations. “There is a lot of work needed in re-evaluation of the regulations. Both the Freshman Council and Freshman Court have been asked to study the situation.” The trend, Stafford pointed out, is toward doing away with the regulations. At least one member of the Student Council wants to abolish the regulations altogether. Stafford ended, “There definitely will be some changes next year.”

(Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys” and “Barefoot Boy With Cheek”)

HOW SMALL CAN YOU GET?

Today let us address ourselves to a question that has long rocked and roiled the academic world: Is a student better off at a small college than at a large college? To answer this question it is necessary first to define terms. What, exactly, do we mean by a small college? Well sir, some say that in order to be called truly small, a college should have an enrollment of not more than four students. I surely have no quarrel with this statement; a four-student college must unequivocally be called small. Indeed, I would even call it intime if I knew what intime meant. But I submit there is such a thing as being too small. Take, for instance, a recent unfortunate event at Crimscott A and M. Crimscott A and M, situated in a pleasant valley nestled between Philadelphia and Salt Lake City, was founded by A. and M. Crimscott, two brothers who left Ireland in 1625 to escape the potato famine of 1841. As a result of their foresight, the Crimscott brothers never went without potatoes for one single day of their lives—and mighty grateful they were! One night, full of gratitude after a wholesome meal of French fries, cottage fries, hash browns, and au gratin, they decided to show their appreciation to this bountiful land of potatoes by endowing a college. But their generosity contained one stipulation: the enrollment of the college must never exceed four students. They felt that only by keeping the school this small could each student be assured of the personalized attention, the camaraderie, the esprit, that is all too often lacking in larger institutions of higher learning.

Well sir, things went along swimmingly until one Saturday a few years ago. On this day Crimscott had a football game scheduled against Minnesota, its traditional rival. Football, as you can well imagine, was something of a problem at Crimscott, what with only four undergraduates in the entire college. It was easy enough to muster a backfield, but to find a good line—or even a bad line—baffled some of the most resourceful coaching minds in the nation. Well sir, on the morning of the big game against Minnesota, its traditional rival, a capricious fate dealt Crimscott a cruel blow—in fact, four cruel blows. Sigafoos, the quarterback, woke up that morning with an impacted incisor. Wrichards, the slotback, flunked his taxidermy exam and was declared ineligible. Beerbohm-Tree, the wingback-tailback, got his necktie caught in his espresso machine. Yuld, the fullback, was stolen by gypsies. Consequently, none of the Crimscott team showed up at the football game, and Minnesota, its traditional rival, was able to score almost at will. Crimscott was so cross after this humiliating defeat that they immediately broke off football relations with Minnesota, its traditional rival. This later became known as the Sacco-Vanzetti Case.

So you can see how only four students might be too meager an enrollment. The number that I personally favor is twenty. Why? you ask. Because, I reply, when you have twenty students and one of them opens a pack of Marlboro Cigarettes, there are enough to go around for everybody, and no one has to be deprived of Marlboro’s flavor, of Marlboro’s filter, of Marlboro’s staunch and steadfast companionship, and as a result you have a student body that is brimming with sweet content and amity and harmony and concord and togetherness and soft pack and Flip-Top box. That’s why.

There are twenty fine cigarettes in every pack of Marlboros, and there are millions of packs of Marlboros in every one of the fifty states of the Union. We, the makers of Marlboro and the sponsors of this column, hope you will try our wares soon.