PAGE FOUR

UP IN THE WILD BLUE — Standing next to the Cessna 150 flight plane used in the flight training program,
Haynes Kelly (left) and Dick Forrester discuss their first solo flights. Both cadets in the program took a solo flight
after basic ground and flight instruction.

Zooming Flight Program Puts Six Soloists In Air

“Soloing will make a believer of you.” This is the way that Dick Forrester introduced his reactions to the ROTC
Flight Program.

BY BILL FOSTER

Twelve cadets are in the program this year: Haynes Kelly, Bill Beerman, Joe McCormick, Leonard Turner, Ben McCoy, Ned Smith,
Algie Guess, Atkins Embry, Hugh Bell, Ivan Rohrer, Andy Sale, and Forrester. It all began last spring for the 12,
when they expressed an interest in the program and began meeting its strenuous requirements. Most of them received their physical
from the flight surgeon at summer camp. Forrester said of the thorough physical, “If there was anything to push, pull,
squeeze, or poke, they did.”

The requirement that eliminated most of the aspirants was the one on vision—all cadets in the program must have 20-20
vision. In addition to the physical requirements, there is an aptitude test that takes three hours and a mental exam.
The approval of the school officials and the military instructors is also required.

Fliers receive ground instruction in several fields such as meteorology and map reading in two three-hour sessions on each Monday
and Wednesday in the ROTC Dept. Cadets in the program fly about two to three hours a week out of
the Mooresville and Statesville airports. Their air teacher is James L. Miller, who is a licensed Federal Aviation Commission Instructor.
The plane they use is a Cessna 150 which has 100 horsepower.

So far six of the fliers have soloed. Kelly and Forrester were the first to lose their shirt tails in
a ceremony each pilot traditionally undergoes following the first solo. They have been followed by Turner, McCormick, McCoy, and Rohrer.

In return for flight training, the cadets spend an extra year on active duty if they are accepted into the
Army Aviation Program. The additional year is spent in receiving training in the flying of larger or rotary wing aircraft.
Participants in the program feel that the extra year “is more than offset by the experience and training gained.”

The flight program at Davidson enables its participants to obtain their private pilot’s license with only two additional hours of
flying time. Two of last year’s graduates of the program, John Thomas and Tom Tuttle, are furthering their flight instruction
in Fort Rucker, Ala.

ROTC flight training has a three-fold purpose: to motivate students to seek a career in Army Aviation and in the
regular army, to screen applicants for Army flight training, and to create a pool of qualified pilots to be used
in an emergency.

Union Says Yule Dance Here Next Week

Civil Rights Expert

A national authority on civil rights in the United States, Dr. Robert S. Rankin, will be on campus next Wednesday
and Thursday as a guest of the Union Roundtable Committee. Chairman of the political science department at Duke University for
14 years, Dr. Rankin was appointed to President Kennedy’s Commission on Civil Rights in 1960. As a member of that
commission, he has written several minority decisions on recommendations to Congress.

Dr. Rankin is the author of numerous books, including When Civil Law Fails, Readings in American Government, Political Science in
the South, and Fundamentals of American Government, in addition to many articles in professional periodicals on civil rights and constitutional
law.

This summer Dr. Rankin appeared at Vanderbilt University delivering a series of lectures on civil rights.

Dr. Rankin has some kinship to Davidson, as Dr. P. B. Secor, professor emeritus of political science, was his instructor
when he was working on his doctorate.

David W. Robinson, Jr., valedictorian of the class of 1960 at Davidson, will be Great Issues speaker in assembly Monday.
Concluding the series of talks on “Emerging Africa,” Robinson’s topic will be “Reflections on Religion in an African State.”

He has spent the last two years in the Centre de Bopp in Dakar, Senegal. In this part of Africa,
he has been in firsthand contact with the boiling racial disputes and turmoil of the teeming continent. Robinson has been
instrumental in working with the French government in education. He gives tests, teaches, and helps with the formation of recreational
groups.

Dr. Rankin will be available for informal discussion Wednesday at 10 a.m. in the Union for all those especially interested.
He will then speak in assembly on Thursday morning.

Frist: ‘We Need Freshmen More’

“We need to make the freshmen more a part of campus life,” said Freshman Council president Tom Frist at the
meeting this morning. Meeting times and other basic concerns were discussed.

Friday The Thirteenth

Friday the thirteenth marks the highlight of the Union's program for November and December. This date, in December, is planned
for the Union’s annual Christmas party to be conducted from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. As an added attraction, the
party is being co-planned, co-sponsored, co-ordinated, and co-attended by Queens College. The committee of girls active in planning this event
consists of Caren Camicia, refreshments; Eleanor Judd, transportation; Linda McIntosh, decorations; Betsy Heesman, candid camera; Gracie Anderson, Queens stunt; Barbara
Mann, publicity; and Rose Mitchell, games.

Music will be furnished by two combos and possibly a jazz band. There will be a slow combo in the
Morrison Room, a fast combo in the cafeteria, and, if obtainable, the jazz group will play in the “Cave.”

In addition to the three bands, many other events are scheduled for entertainment. The winning skit from the class skit
night at Queens will be presented. Another interesting activity should be the faculty-student stunts and games. The famous fortune teller,
Madame Zabor, will return from her Austrian chateau. It is hoped that free ping-pong and billiards can be held in
the new addition of the Union.

One of the highlights of the evening will be the crowning of the Union Christmas Sweetheart. Contestants will be chosen
from the Davidson fraternities, Lingle Manor and the Independents, and from the Queens sororities, dorms, and day students. Judging will
be conducted by faculty members and Davidson residents. A photographer will also be on hand for photographs of couples attending
the party.

This year’s party is similar to last year’s but bigger and longer since there will be no basketball game on
the same evening.

In other Union activities, a group of Union Board members along with its director, C. Shaw Smith, is attending the
annual conference of the Association of College Unions at the University of South Florida this weekend. This Sunday a jazz
concert is being held in the Morrison room from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. On Nov. 20 a Bake Sale
will be held in the Union, hopefully with contributions from faculty wives.

Dr. E. A. Steimle Vespers Speaker

Dr. Edmund A. Steimle, Brown Professor of Homiletics at Union Theological Seminary, New York, will preach the sermon at this
week’s vespers. Born in Allentown, Pa., he attended the public schools of New York City and Phillips Andover before entering
Princeton.Board is now preparing an activities calendar for the group's meeting last Thursday night. They will elect a social chairman
who will be an active member of the Union Board.

A. Frist, who graduated from McCallie School in Chattanooga, Tenn., is a native of Mobile, Ala. A pledge of Beta
Theta Pi, Tom was president of the senate and of the YMCA, and vice president of the senior class at
McCallie. Peter Van Dorsten, secretary-treasurer of the council, was president of the senior class and secretary of the National Honor
Society at R. J. Reynolds High School in Winston-Salem, and is pledged to Kappa Sigma.

“Academic, athletic, religious and social participation should be stressed,” he said. “All of these things can be pushed by the
Freshman Council.”

“Last year,” said former president Jim Stokes, “we didn’t get started as early as you have. Our big problem was
trying to set up a big project to get the council off on the right foot. We tried to organize
support for the freshman basketball team; even though the varsity has all the big names, the freshmen need encouragement too.
But, whatever you do, finish what you start.”

Stokes suggested that the council work on obtaining pencil sharpeners and extra water fountains for the freshman dorms. “It’s a
long way down from the fourth floor when you want a drink of water,” he said.

In the field of academic participation, suggestions were made to devote one of the “Open End” sessions each month to
freshman problems. Since a quorum was not present, no definite action could be taken, but those present expressed real interest
in such a plan. Since social programs will be the responsibility of the social chairman, discussion of this phase was
postponed. Several voiced approval of the idea to rally support for freshman athletic teams, and discussion on religious activity was
withheld pending the appointment of a representative to the YMCA Cabinet.

Attendance requirements, “I wish all men would smoke,”

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1963

ANNUAL MEETING

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
McGeachy
Pierce
Maloney
Plott
Marrotte
Rhodes
Minter
Schenck

Alumnus Returns To Speak On African Great Issues

Aside from being valedictorian, he was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, YMCA and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He
did graduate work at Union Theological Seminary in New York and from there he went to Africa in his present
capacity as a Frontier Intern in the University World and Militant Non-Christian Faiths program. Following his speech on Monday there
will be a coffee hour in the Union. Robinson will meet with the YMCA cabinet on Monday night and will
hold small group discussions on Tuesday and Wednesday.

To Make A Part

In closing, Frist called for active participation by all members in the activities of the council and of the college
in general. “I'd like to see a member of this group in every major campus organization,” Frist stated. “That way
we can be sure that every group in the class will have a voice in the activities of Davidson College.”

Data transmission is one of the most valuable tools of modern communications. And Southern Bell’s Jerry Sanders (B.S.E.E., 1959) sees
to it that Mississippi businessmen fully benefit from the service. Jerry is Sales Supervisor in charge of data sales and
coordination for the entire state. Outstanding performance on earlier assignments earned Jerry his key promotion. On one job, he engineered
cable and microwave facilities. On another, he planned the complex conversion job needed to make Dial Teletypewriter Exchange Service available
in his area. Then came an opportunity to attend the Bell System Data School in Cooperstown, New York, a necessary
preparation for his latest promotion. Jerry Sanders, like many young engineers, is impatient to make things happen for his company
and himself. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

New Duke Board Of Visitors Meets President Recipient Of Degree

BY DICK HICKS

At a special convocation this afternoon in Chambers Auditorium, Davidson College awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree to Dr.
Douglas M. Knight, new president of Duke University. Dr. Knight addressed the gathering as a part of the annual meeting
of the Davidson Board of Visitors, which has drawn more than 50 board members and several hundred Duke alumni to
the campus for the weekend.

The Board of Visitors is a group of leaders from business, education, church and civic life, serving as an advisory
body to the college administration, and includes the Executive Committee of the trustees of the college. Chairman of the Board
is Edward H. Little, former president of the Colgate-Palmolive Co. The board is spending the weekend at Davidson to receive
information about the college, its progress and its problems.

President D. Grier Martin gave the main report on the state of the college to the board, which met at
2:30 this afternoon in Cunningham Fine Arts Center. The board also announced the following new members at its meeting: J.
J. Daniel, Jacksonville, Fla.; The Honorable Frank Porter Graham, New York, N. Y.; Spencer B. Hanes, Winston-Salem; Watts Hill, Jr.,
Durham; Julian L. McCall, New York City; Dr. E. J. McShane, Charlottesville, Va.; J. B. Beachum, Charlotte; Mrs. Ben W.
Montgomery, Spartanburg, S. C.; Herbert O’Keef, Raleigh; Mrs. Robert Lynn Peters, Kingsport, Tenn.; Jones Y. Pharr, Charlotte; The Honorable L.
Richardson Preyer, Greensboro; Mrs. Joseph Schoenith, Charlotte; B. B. Walker, Asheboro; and J. Mason Wallace, Charlotte.

Following the meeting the college awarded Dr. Knight the honorary LLD degree in a special convocation held at 4:30 in
Chambers Auditorium. The Duke president addressed the faculty on “The Dimensions of Learning.” Professors were dressed in academic caps and
gowns for the convocation and the Male Chorus sang. Tonight at 8:30 a program of music and drama will be
presented in Hodson Hall featuring “The Lamplighters,” a double quartet of Male Chorus singers. Then at 9:30 a reception will
be held at the president's home honoring the new board members. Students are invited to both the musical and dramatic
program and to the reception. Tomorrow morning the board members will attend a lecture-discussion session, followed by a buffet luncheon
in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. In the afternoon, they will see the Davidson Wildcat football team play Lehigh at
Richardson Field.

THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: JERRY SANDERS

TELEPHONE MAN-OF-THE-MONTH
