The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Of Minds And Computers

In a recent interview with Robert Conn of the Charlotte Observer, Fred Anderson, Marshall Scholar from the University of North
Carolina, expressed the view that a study of mathematics, rather than the humanities, produces the most well-rounded individual. “If I
were starting my college work again,” he said, “I would major in mathematics. Almost every field of knowledge is contained
in higher math. A major in any one of the humanities, in my mind, tends to develop a narrower individual
than one in such an all-encompassing field as math.”

With no more available than these few sentences, it is difficult to trace the line of reasoning which leads Anderson
to this unqualified conclusion. But taken at face value, his opinion places too much confidence in higher mathematics and not
nearly enough in the liberal arts.

Unquestionably, as it expands in scope, higher mathematics is becoming a more important and useful tool in the areas of
scientific discovery. Indeed, it has been said that the ultimate aim of the modern scientist, be he a physicist or
biologist or whatever, is to reduce his specialty to the science of mechanics, thence to mathematical formulae and symbols capable
of being programmed for use on computers. But to apply this line of reasoning to all disciplines is to ignore
some basic differences between the sciences and the liberal arts. For example, most modern philosophers and theologians would hesitate to
reduce all their utterances to IBM cards. Likewise, it would be difficult, if not utterly impossible, to compare the sonnets
of Shakespeare with those of Browning, or to express the emotional impact of the Miller’s Tale in the form of
numbers or other mathematical symbols.

The reason for this is simple. The humanities are, as the name implies, concerned with human interests, with feelings and
attitudes and aspirations. Numbers, or any other symbols (short of conventional language) are simply incapable of suggesting or describing emotions,
and as such are sterile of human qualities. Leibnitz’s dream of a universal symbolic language may yet be realized, but
it is certainly not on the horizon today.

Perhaps Anderson is reacting against the very real danger of pursuing the liberal arts to the exclusion of science and
mathematics. Such a one-sided education would unquestionably produce a narrow-minded individual, especially in view of the tremendous strides science is
making in today’s world. But it is equally possible and equally as dangerous to limit one’s self to the study
of science and mathematics, for in spite of the advance of modern technology, one must still contend with the people,
the human element present in the application of any new scientific or mathematical discovery. To leave this variable completely unknown
is to leave at least part of the results of one’s work to chance—a very un-scientific procedure.

The running feud between science and mathematics on the one hand and the humanities on the other will no doubt
continue. It behooves the student at a liberal arts college such as Davidson, no matter what his field of study,
to become aware of the strengths and limitations of both points of view, and to keep his mind open to
the changes, both technological and humanistic, which are taking place every day.

J.R.W.

Underachievement

The principal argument we have heard against the school’s new policy on underachievement concerns the right of an institution to
temporarily suspend a student who is doing passing work, and who has met that institution’s written requirements as to quality
points and hours. Rather than attempting a detailed justification of such a policy, may we instead register some general comments
on the spirit we hope is behind the letter which was recently sent to some 80 students.

If, as some students fear, the Executive Committee were to use the underachievement policy as an axe in a massive
“clearing out of dead wood,” the program would lose any effectiveness and value. Such an action would be unjustifiable to
say the least. However, the official attitude as we understand it involves a sincere attempt to help underachieving students help
themselves. Underachievement in nearly every instance is tied in with some sort of motivational problem. For many, the problem is
a complete dearth of vocational plans, and therefore no particular incentive for studying. For others, the problem involves personal troubles
at home or with a girl. In some cases the problem is one of immaturity—an unwillingness to face the fact
that the time is coming when one must leave the maternal environment of home and Davidson in order to build
a life of one’s own.

In any of these instances, a semester or year out of school could well provide an invaluable thinking period in
which the underachiever might indeed find his feet. And ordinarily, the suspension would be a step which the student would
not take by himself. Suspended students could be encouraged to find a job, preferably away from home, and perhaps the
school (through the Union Placement Service or Dr. Hight’s Counseling Office) could even take an active hand in finding each
underachiever a worthwhile temporary occupation.

The key phrase in the entire letter was the one which guaranteed an “intensive examination” of each case considered for
suspension. A substandard grade point average could reflect anything from a genuinely bad attitude to the refusal on the part
of some student to take any of numerous crip courses in order to pad his average. In other instances, and
this hits awfully close to home with us, students attempting to keep an extracurricular organization going may be found hurting
in comparison according to a computer’s account of their grade potentials. Innumerable other personal factors, including perhaps to some extent
the student’s own desires on the subject, should be considered in a suspension decision. We trust these considerations have been
taken into account by the originators of the underachievement program, and if so, we hope the students involved will take
the letter as a challenge rather than a threat.

DTS

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ... David Stitt
BUSINESS MANAGER ... Rick Finch
Associate Editors Tim Kimrey
News Editor Jimmy Downey
Bill Ruth
Photographers ... Joe McCutchen
Jeff Wampler
Buck Lawrimore
Managing Editors ... Charles Dibble
Charles Ramberg
Cartoonists Dan Adams
Johnny Wright
Assistant Editor ... Rick von Unwerth
Walter MacDonald
Sports Editor Rick Lowery
Rufus Hallmark
Assistant Sports Editor Bob Strauser
Assistant Bus. Manager Charlie Smith
Feature Editor Tom Loflin
Advertising Manager Irvine Welling
Assignments Editor John Todd
Circulation Manager ... Malcolm Lane
Contributors This Week: George Fain, Bill Aitken, Tom Vinson, Bill Hufford, Eric Nichols, Jim Beasley, Bill Foster, Ron Snow, Charles
Edwards, Johnny Clark, David Coffey and Tom Peaden.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Move It Or Lose It

BIBLE BELT:
Students At Bob Jones Skip Cuts For Church

BY CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Thou shalt not cut thy classes at Bob Jones University. Nestled deep in the Bible Belt of South Carolina, the
“world’s most unusual university” proclaims that its purpose is “to excel all other schools in the thoroughness of its Christian
training.” To carry out the edict of thoroughness, the rulers of this Greenville citadel against “all atheistic, agnostic, pagan, and
so-called scientific adulterations of the Gospel” have made the campus a replica of John Calvin’s Geneva.

While Calvin’s descendants at Davidson are allowed to absent themselves from 25% of their courses in evolution and modern biblical
criticism, Bob Jones pupils are confronted with somewhat stiffer attendance requirements.

“For the purpose of leaving the city of Greenville, each student is allowed the equivalent of one full week of
cuts per semester, if the proper permission has been secured.

“No cuts may be taken at the following times: (1) during Bible Conference Week; (2) within three weeks of Christmas
holidays; (3) within three weeks of Commencement; (4) within three weeks following the beginning of any semester; (5) within three
weeks following a student’s entrance; (6) during mid-semester examinations.

“For each class absence, a student will receive a grade of zero.

“A student is required to attend all meals, classes, assemblies, etc., unless he is otherwise excused, and he is required
to be on time.”

With such liberal cuts rules, the BJU pupil needs a keen eye to spot legal cut days. For the 1962-1963
academic year, the schedule ran as follows: From Sept. 5 until Sept. 25, thou shalt not cut. Thou shalt not
cut Nov. 1, 2, 5 and 6. Thou shalt not cut from Nov.29 until Feb. 14. Thou shalt not cut
March 14, 15, 18, and 19. During the week of March 31-April 7, thou shalt not cut. Thou shalt not
cut after May 3. Bob Jones does allow its boys and girls one week during the springtime to escape the
class- room. But unlike Davidson, which releases its captives for a week of beer-guzzling in Florida, Bob Jones uses the
valuable hours to hold a Bible Conference Week, which the catalog calls a “special advantage.”

"... the Conference brings to the campus America’s outstanding orthodox Bible teachers, pastors, and evangelists. All regular academic work is
suspended for the Bible Conference, which takes the place of a spring vacation.” The hope, of course, is that ministers
will swarm forth from Bob Jones to convert the infidels at Davidson and other bastions of 20th Century religion. In
the frank words of Bob Jones’ president, religion is a natural thing at Bob Jones. “It is not stereotyped, strained,
or overly pious. It is simple and unaffected. Every class is opened with prayer, and our social gatherings blend easily
and naturally into ‘a little prayer before we go.’”

Carrell Reviews
BY DANNY CARRELL
Student Body President 1962-1963

Ed. Note: The following is a record of the many trials of last year’s Student Council. On minor issues, the
council recorded successes. On major issues, the council collided head-on with Trustee and Administration opposition and student apathy. Danny Carrell,
head of the council, is now at Oxford on a Rhodes Scholarship.

A main concern of the council was to act as a mediator between the students and the faculty and administration.
The council was instrumental in having the faculty repeal the holiday clause of the new absence system. The mass exodus
that was feared by many faculty members upon removal of the clause did not occur.

SOBRIETY REIGNS
The council was not as successful in its request for a repeal of the off-campus drinking rule. As long as
there is the feeling among a majority of faculty members that drinking is morally wrong and/or detrimental to the educational
process, and as long as there is the feeling that the existing rule curbs excessive off-campus drinking, progress in this
area appears impossible.

No concrete action resulted from the student-administration discussions on the parking problem or on the question concerning three reviews on
the same day. Student council By-Laws 2, 3, 8, 10, 13, and 15 were amended. By-Law 2 was completely revised
to include the full set of election procedures. Most of the other changes were also procedural, but one did provide
for student representation on the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life. Representation on the Building and Grounds Committee
and on the Reynolds Lecture Committee is pending.

The council attempted to make its Monday assembly programs interesting not only for the students but also for the faculty,
administration, and Davidson community. Guest speakers included Rep. Charles R. Jonas, Rep. Robert W. Hemphill, Senator Thruston B. Morton, and
James Farmer, National Director of CORE.

NSA LAUDED
Membership in the National Student Association proved beneficial. Davidson was represented at the ‘62 spring regional and at the 15th
National Student Congress. Material from NSA on European travel, the Peace Corps, and the U.N. was made available to the
student body through various campus organizations or designated representatives.

Election Identification Cards were used this year. Although there was no increase in the number of ballots cast, the card
system proved to be a convenience for those who did vote. Provisions were also made for two polling places, voting,
and absentee balloting.

There was other action taken by the ‘62-63 council. It was instrumental in having the Trustees eat lunch at the
fraternity houses during their February visit. Upon request of the council, a telephone was placed on the third floor of
Richardson. A questionnaire concerning recreational facilities on the college property adjoining Lake Norman was distributed. The Student Council instigated the
elimination of the language lab fee. Moreover, it maintained supervision over all student organizations by means of the Student Activities
Committee. The usual appointments of students to serve on various faculty committees were also made.

SABBATH DEFENDED
An attempt was made to have the library opened on Sunday night. This request was refused due to the objection
of the Trustees against decreasing the sanctity of the Sabbath. Discussion was held on standardizing the Honor Court dismissal procedures
and on deciding what body has the power to interpret the Honor System and the Student Body Regulations. A proposed
amendment to specifically give the Honor Court the power of interpretation failed to receive the 2/3 majority needed in order
to present the proposal to the student body. It received the approval of a simple majority both times it was
voted upon, however.

REPERSPECTIVE
Rabble-Rousing Wallace Ignites Birmingham's Fuse
BY RICK von UNWERTH

The jingle ran like this:
“George Wallace, George Wallace, Alabama’s fightin’ judge....”

Alabama’s fightin’ judge came into office as an astute, however small-time, crook. He is no longer small-time. As an ambitious
young jurist, His Honor had the privilege of meddling with some property and with 30 days, perhaps, of a man’s
earthly tenure. Now he is dealing in lives. Some call him crackpot, rabble-rouser, public menace; others are calling him a
murderer.

Three weeks ago school officials in Birmingham and Tuscaloosa, Alabama, had resigned themselves to national pressure and, in the interests
of the public welfare, had prepared for peaceful integration in the elementary schools. The public weal, however, is the province
of Governor George C. Wallace, and his interpretation was a little different. Whether from personal conviction or political expediency, Wallace
threw his own bomb into Alabama’s lap. The state survived the concussion, but the lethal fragments continue to pelt the
streets and citizens of the governor’s victim.

Excitement lends greater short-run pleasure than tranquillity, and thoughtless people seek excitement where it offers. Wallace is playing exciting music
from the State House in Montgomery, and two sixteen-year-old boys took up the dance Sunday. The death of a colored
boy was not a result of outraged conviction. It was a macabre prank in keeping with the spirit of Birmingham’s
Race Festival.

Negro leader James Farmer addressed the Davidson student body last spring, relating at one point the story of his first
meeting with his skin color. “Mother,” he had said as a pre-school child, “that little boy got a coke in
there. Why can’t we get one?” Typical? Four little colored girls came to the same realization in Birmingham last Sunday.
Their experience was somewhat harsher than Farmer's, and it was something more than a lesson to them. They didn’t hear
it from their mothers; it wasn’t explained to them. A bomb isn’t very articulate; nor very tender.

The backwash of Wallace’s courageous stands, and of his graceless withdrawals, has swamped the state of Alabama with bilious resentment;
in some cases flavored with hemlock. Something must be done; but how long can we let George do it?

Scripts ’n Scraps
DOWN
1. Take a dive in —— Infirmary
ACROSS
1. What each freshman became who took the “long walk” last week
2. A souvenir of Hawaii
3. A course required for two years here
4. Doctor of Theology (abbr.)
5. A literary society
6. Intramural Athletic Council (abbr.)
7. Masurium, symbol
8. Service fraternity (abbr.)
9. Academic probation (abbr.)
10. The fee every fraternity man pays the college each semester
11. A rival school in Chapel Hill (abbr)
12. Naughty ones make best sellers
13. From the Honor Code, we learn —— doesn’t pay
15. Number of free cuts allowed freshmen in chapel
16. The head of the Court of ——
17. A heavenly body (poetic)
18. A small discussion class for advanced study
19. Short term for YMCA
20. Roman numeral for 50
21. A device professors use to flunk students
22. German for “it”
23. Direction 315 degrees
24. A form of literature which exemplifies
25. Plutonium, symbol
26. Greek pronunciation of “X”
27. Refers to Davidson College
28. Exclamation
29. Last week was —— Week
30. French for “the,” masc.
31. Last year, 19 Davidson students were recognized by Who's ——
32. Sounds made after excessive drinking
34. Potassium, symbol
35. Aluminum, symbol
36. Terbium, symbol
37. German for “at the house of”

Answer will be published next week.

THE END

YOU WOULD NEVER THINK THAT JUST CHANGING THE COLOR OF THE CLOTH FROM GREEN TO TANGERINE WOULD MAKE SUCH A
DIFFERENCE. I WONDER WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF THEY MADE GOLF COURSES PINK?
