Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1963
PAGE THREE

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Up From Isolation

One of the things Davidson College needs most is a break from navel contemplation, and next Thursday chapel and night
Geza Grosschmid will provide the first in a series of excellent opportunities to take such a break. Most people here
know very little about Africa aside from the much-publicized fighting and trouble, so Mr. Grosschmid’s emphasis on Africa’s colonial heritage
and future economic role should be highly enlightening. The YMCA committee planning the Great Issues series has done an outstanding
job lining up speakers, and we hope this program will receive heavy support from the faculty as well as from
the student body.

The ‘Cats

We did not think last night, do not think now, and will never be convinced that the following is a
field-goal situation: score 0-0 in the first quarter, ball six inches from the Catawba goal line after a strong sustained
drive, and four backs in the game who are all thoroughly capable of picking up six inches. We felt at
the time that the call showed a lack of confidence in the team, and that it hurt team morale. But
that field goal call and the subsequent runback did not beat the ‘Cats last Friday night. And if anyone on
the team thinks it did, they are somewhat deluded and just looking around for a handy scapegoat. The Catawba quarterback
made some rather poignant statements after the game about the Davidson team. Rather than commenting on the muffed field goal,
or the punt hitting the power line, or the Davidson end that tackled the Davidson halfback, he simply noted that
Davidson did not hit with any consistency, and that if the ‘Cats were in the Carolinas Conference, they would probably
finish third or fourth. Davidson will be able to do pretty much what they wish with Citadel tomorrow. If they
intend to get upset and indignant about breaks, they might as well forget showing up. Personally, we're going to pass
up watching the Southern Cal-Oklahoma game on television in hopes that the 1963 Davidson Wildcat football team will finally pull
together and smash somebody.

DTS

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Underachievement Probe Attracts Alumni Reaction

Dear Editor:

A good friend of ours visited us yesterday and very kindly left us a copy of THE DAVIDSONIAN. We are
on the regular mailing list of the Alumni Journal, an excellent periodical which keeps us abreast of all the important
happenings around the campus, and yesterday we even received a brief under the heading of “Davidson Sports Notes” which brought
us up to date concerning the bands that we could see on Richardson Field this fall and also how many
varsity football players had a “B” average. But were it not for THE DAVIDSONIAN we doubt if we would have
ever been informed of the current rumble between the faculty and the underachievers. Reading this brought back pleasant memories of
similar mind meetings between students and faculty during our undergraduate days, particularly that of the “No House Party, No Pageant”
controversy. With the exception of the accidental shooting of one student from the top of a six-foot packing box with
a loaded fire hose, there were no casualties, and we feel sure that this present controversy will come out all
right also. We have no quarrel with the intent of the faculty, and we are certainly as anti “C’s” as
we are pro “B’s” and “A’s.” But we would like to raise a note of caution to it in the
same vein as Senator Ervin's objection to the Civil Rights’ bill—they might be opening a Pandora’s box of all sorts
of attempts to “formulate” all sorts of people. Let us assume for instance, that after a grim relentless struggle of
several years all the Davidson underachievers are completely wiped out. All of the percentiles have fallen neatly in place, and
a “C” is now as unusual a sight as a student hitchhiking to Charlotte. Where will the digit demented denizens
of the formula projectors look next? To the alumni? We are always reading articles about the average salary earned by
the average member of the average age of our average college class. Will we someday be confronted with a ukase
that unless we earn more money, our name will be stricken from the alumni list? Alas, how dreary life would
be with no more Alumni Journals, no more Davidson Sports Notes, nothing to let us know that the light is
still shining and liberty is still prevailing. To the athletes? Suppose for instance, the field goal kicker in practice continuously
clears the crossbar by five feet when booting from the twenty-five-yard line. And then suppose that during a game he
kicks four twenty-five-yard field goals, but all of them are only two feet above the bar? Will they immediately banish
him from further participation? To the faculty? Here, we think, is a very real danger. Once you get every student
producing answers at just the right capacities, there is really no necessity ever to change the questions. But suppose that
for several years running eighty percent of a class makes a grade of 90 or more on a certain test—and
then comes the black day when only seventy percent accomplish that feat. Should the students be blamed? We think not.
Has not the professor slipped ten percentiles from his previous accomplishments? Should not ten percentiles be deducted from his next
paycheck? And what if someone comes up with the news that a certain faculty member's prolific creative ability renders him
capable of writing an average of twenty-five different letters to the editor each week? (Daily paper, of course — including
Sunday). Then, some week, that same professor only writes twenty letters! Should he be banned from ever again writing a
letter? We must confess, however, that there is one small facet of our Davidson life that we wish the statistics
had covered more completely. At our boarding house the cook was very fond of a delicacy which for want of
a better name we can only call “Mashed Black-eyed Peas.” We did not keep a chart but this dish was
served we are sure at least fourteen times a week. This does not count breakfast since neither of us ever
ate breakfast very much. But we have always wondered how many percentiles above our eating capacity of mashed black-eyed peas
were served us.

P. W. Bumbarger Jr., '41
R. B. Bumbarger, '60

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Stitt

BUSINESS MANAGER
Rick Finch

Associate Editors
Tim Kimrey
News Editor .... Jim Downey
Bill Ruth
Assignments Editor
John Todd
Jeff Wampler
Photographers
Joe McCutchen
Managing Editors
Charles Dibble
Buck Lawrimore
Charles Ramberg
Cartoonists
Dan Adams
Assistant Editor
Rick von Unwerth
Johnny Wright
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Bob Strauser
Feature Editor
Rick Lowery
Tom Loflin
Rufus Hallmark
Assistant Bus. Manager
Charlie Smith
Advertising Manager
Irvine Welling
Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Contributors This Week:
George Fain, Tom Vinson, Bill Aitken, Bill Hufford, Ron Snow, Bill Foster, Don McKinnon, Charles Edwards, Dennis Nicholson, Cliff Kirkpatrick,
John Barnhardt, David Coffey, Greg Govan, John Higgins, Eric Nichols, Jim Beasley, John Quats and Romir Chatterjee.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

The Great Issue.

WHAT'S THE GREAT ISSUES ENLIGHTEN PROGRAM?

BY HALLMARK

IS THERE ANYTHING ABOUT SEX?

IT'S A PROGRAM SPONSORED BY EMINENT SPEAKERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS. THEY WILL PRESENT OPPORTUNITIES TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE SOVIET
BREAK, THE ECUMENICAL MOVEMENT, AND OTHER TOPICS OF UNIVERSAL IMPORTANCE.

Hallmark

Local Merchants Show Civil Rights Progress

BY CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Managing Editor

If Hugo Sapp were alive today, he'd be amazed to see how much his little corner of the North Carolina
Piedmont has changed. When Sapp was interviewed by DAVIDSONIAN feature writer Rick von Unwerth in March 1961, the winds of
social justice were just beginning to rustle leaves on Elm Row. He and his wife told von Unwerth that they
weren't about to lower their standards and allow Negro students to sit at the booths of their College Cut-Rate —
even if they were the Congolese students that Davidson was then deciding to enroll. Now Hugo and the Cut-Rate have
passed away. In their places stand Ralph Quackenbush and The Hub. Any Davidson student is welcome to sit in the
booths of the Hub. Negro townspeople could sit there, too, according to one source in town. “But they just don't
seem to want to," comments Quackenbush, noting that nearly all his business is with the students.

TRUSTEES DESEGREGATE

Hugo lived long enough to see the Davidson Trustees decide in May 1962, to open Davidson College to students of
all races. One of the factors influencing the Trustees in their decision was a student body poll in which the
majority of those voting said they favored desegregating the college. A few sour souls like to point out that only
568 of Davidson's students voted in that poll. Thus, they say, it really didn’t prove anything. They forget that the
Davidson student is not a political animal. Last spring, John Spratt became student body president in an election in which
only 423 students voted.

STUDENTS RECONSIDER

A more concrete proof that the Davidson student has changed during the last few years is a definite change in
the campus reaction to students who participate in civil rights demonstrations. When three or four students joined in a stand-in
in Charlotte in February 1961, student response was swiftly heard. According to the Feb. 17, 1961 DAVIDSONIAN, 243 students signed
a petition stating their opposition to Davidson students participating in demonstrations. Last year, four students went into Charlotte to join
in planned anti-segregation picketing. They returned expecting to confront irate student reaction and instead met no reaction at all. Perhaps
it was a case of hungover indignation. The deed was done on the Saturday of Spring Frolics dance.Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

weekend. It became obvious that no vocal student opposition would develop after a DAVIDSONIAN article naming the would-be demonstrators drew
virtually no response.

MERCHANTS PROGRESS

If Hugo could look up and down Main Street today, he'd see Negro Davidson students be-

THE EDITOR

Student Cites Record Of Alabama's Wallace

Dear Editor:

Last week’s column about Governor Wallace of Alabama by Rick von Unwerth showed very little regard for the truth. The
man about whom von Unwerth wrote is not the George Wallace that we in Alabama love and respect, but is
rather an imaginary man fabricated by the enemies of the South.

The George Wallace that we Alabamians know sponsored an industrial act which has brought several hundred million dollars worth of
new industry into our state, providing well-paying jobs for both races. He is the George Wallace that, despite a filibustering
legislature, raised public school teachers’ salaries 17% per cent and obtained a record appropriation for expansion of educational facilities. He
is the George Wallace that initiated the greatest road building program in the state's history. He is the George Wallace
that abolished liquor agents and other unneeded state employees, thus depriving many professional politicians of easy money. He is the
George Wallace that did away with the state’s two luxury yachts, unauthorized use of state cars and trucks and abuse
of state money by some officials. He is George Wallace, the economist, the reformer, and the statesman—and the best friend
of the people.

Von Unwerth suggests that the murders in Birmingham resulted from Wallace’s resistance to integration. If Wallace had not resisted integration,
these murders might not have occurred, but if the Federal Government was not trying to force Alabama to integrate the
races, it is even more unlikely that the murders would have been committed.

The students boycotting Birmingham and Tuskegee schools hardly express local resentment to Governor Wallace’s actions. The unsupported accusations made against
George Wallace by von Unwerth are dangerous and in the poorest tradition of journalism.

Don McKinnon

being served on equal footing with white students at nearly all public accommodations. But more important than the progress that
has been made so far, there appears to be reason to hope that men of good will of both races
will be able to break down the remaining barriers in the foreseeable future. The goal is to put local Negro
citizens on equal footing with whites.

The major factor holding back further progress at this time seems to be uncertainty on the part of local merchants
as to just what the economic consequences would be if they decided to serve Negroes and whites on an equal
basis. So far, four local facilities have opened their doors to all local citizens and students without regard to race.
They are The Hub restaurant, the restrooms at both Cliff Archer’s Gulf station and Bill Gurley’s Esso station, and the
town library. “It’s always been my policy,” explains Gurley. “Why not?” asks Hub owner Quackenbush.

Partners in limited progress are the College Restaurant, Hood Norton’s barber shop, and Ralph Johnson’s barber shop. All three have
been serving Negro students enrolled in the college since Ben Nzengu became the first Negro student in Davidson's history last
year. Negro students are welcome to use the booths in the College Restaurant, but owner Mrs. Marion Pratt prefers that
they come in with white students on Saturday night. Reluctance to serve all white and Negro citizens alike at these
three facilities would probably end if the owners were assured that complete integration would not force them out of business.
Mrs. Pratt explains that she lost some business last year when a Negro student came into the College Restaurant alone.
One barber shop owner puts it this way: “The problem is whether a fellow is going to be in business
around here or not.”

At the M&M Soda Shop and at the Coffee Cup Restaurant, Negro students are on equal footing with local Negroes.
The policy at the M&M is unchanged from what it was at the time of von Unwerth’s interview. Negroes are
served at the counter but at the present time may not sit in the booths. At the Coffee Cup, Negro
and white eating areas are separated by the kitchen.

In 1961, not a single merchant questioned by von Unwerth would commit himself to treat Negro students the same as
white students. Now the prevailing attitude has shifted from overwhelming opposition to a wait-and-see approach.

ASTERISK

Author-Instructor Hogan Spurs Student Creativity

BY RICK von UNWERTH
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

Mr. Moreland Hogan has a Masters from Harvard, experience with a publishing house, and an interest in creative writing. It
looked like a good prospect for an interview. Something else turned up, though; something else Mr. Hogan has that Davidson
is in painful straits for. Enthusiasm. A genuine, full-time desire to work with his material and share his satisfactions.

He’s in the English Department. Instructor in the basic course, with a section in creative writing for advanced students.

* * *

It’s different, somehow, in Dr. Cumming’s old office. Hogan puts his feet up on the chair and talks like a
student. He talks about Davidson—“for sons of the southern bourgeois . . . good preparation for doctors, lawyers, businessmen .
. . a ‘safe’ school.”

The old “creativity problem” cliche drew a laugh. “They think creativity’s bad here? They ought to see what happens at
the big state university. The English Department there wasn’t interested in having a writer-in-residence. I think the poetry circuit moved
to W. C. now. They didn’t want it at Chapel Hill.”

Maybe we’re not low man after all. But we're still not off the hook. “With a thousand men here, there
ought to be ten or fifteen interested in reading some plays. Get together. Read some modern things—write your own. You
don’t have to have a stage. Other places I've seen groups doing plays in dining rooms, fraternity houses, halls—anywhere. You
don’t need an audience. Listen, these things are a hell of a lot of fun.” He offered his room, his
office, his house. “Let me know when you want to read something. Bring it over to my place—I’ll be glad
to do it with you!”

* * *

Writing is Mr. Hogan’s line, though. In the spring of 1962 Carleton Miscellany magazine published “News Out of Purgatory: Six
Short Tales.” “They're very short tales,” according to the author. “Fables without morals . . . or maybe immoral fables.”
That was the only piece whose authorship he would claim. There are others, it seems, but “the library here wouldn't
have the magazines. I’m also the owner of an impressive file of rejection slips,” he added.

Last year he was an editor of the University of North Carolina Press. This year he would probably have been
editor-in-chief. But he came to Davidson for a year as an instructor in English. “This is what I wanted,” he
said. “a chance to try teaching. I’m a lazy writer—I’ll probably make a career of teaching and write on the
side.”

Mr. Hogan’s talents are available to all. “Tell anyone who wants to come by I'll be glad to read and
criticize his work,” he urged. His mind and his office are open to honest effort at any time.

Mr. Hogan is aware of the creativity problem. It’s only his approach that’s new for Davidson. You don’t need a
budget or a hired hall to be creative. Criticising isn’t creating. What were our goals in the Goodykoontz dispute last
Spring? The burden of responsibility for creativity outlets has been kicked around enough. Mr. Hogan, from experience as author, editor,
and student, has made a qualified conjecture concerning the proper shoulders for it. Ours.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Neale Scores Spirit Behind Football Team

Dear Editor:

The game last Friday night was indeed pitiful. It was not the football playing, but the student response that stank.
How can a person expect hard drive from a football team when the only thing seen in the Davidson bleachers
are mute Madras shirts, white ducks, and weejuns. A society like that which exists here at Davidson is nothing but
warped when the students’ sophistication keeps them from cheering for their own team. It is rumored that our coaches are
at fault, or that our football team is weak, or—anything!—just to keep the spotlight from the real cause of our
losses—US!

High school days can easily be recalled when the entire student body came out for every football game, and cheered
and yelled until they were hoarse—even if their team was losing. Why, if our Davidson team even looks like it
might lose, what little support given is immediately dropped so that we will not risk our sophistication.

Solution

“It's a changing world,” commented one local tradesman this week. “Anything can happen.”

Those high school days of team support are not gone, but have been covered over by the prevailing college attitude
of being “cool.” The high school games played on our football field are often watched with many Davidson students in
the crowd. They are there not only because they enjoy that type of football, but also because of the spirit.
Everyone enjoys spirit . . . even Davidson students.

Does our football team have to prove itself before we cheer for it? The student body is really in pitiful
shape when it forces the football players to bear not only the brunt but also the blame of a lost
game, instead of bearing it with them.

Everyone is looking forward to basketball season. Why?—because of the glory that is in it for each member of the
student body. But you will recall that it was the basketball team that had to prove itself before we would
give them our support. Now, assured that we will not lose any prestige, we are all ready to cheer them
on (providing they don’t lose a game!), eager to hitch on to the gravy train.

If we thought about someone else for once, instead of ourselves, our teams would feel much better on the playing
field and knowing that they have the full support of their student body, would have that certain drive necessary for
any team to win.

Wirt Neale
