Chyr Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. LI

Committee Airs Proposals For Speech, Drama Area

Unless the faculty and trustees veto the Curriculum Committee’s proposal, Davidson will have a new department of speech and dramatics next year with a new man in charge.

According to Frontis W. Johnston, dean of faculty and head of the committee, the new department will not offer a major, at least for the present. Johnston refused to specify the course offerings in the projected department, since they are subject to the approval of the faculty at its next meeting. He also declined to identify the new man the college hopes to hire to head the department, since that appointment is also subject to the approval of the trustees at their May meeting. Johnston did indicate that the new professor would handle all aspects of the dramatics program, in effect filling the gap left in the program by the now-final resignation of Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz as Vagabonds director.

Goodykoontz, who resigned as director earlier this year, reacted favorably to the proposal to have a separate department of drama and speech offering its own courses. “It’s a good idea,” he commented. But his comment on the part of the proposal that calls for the hiring of only one man was less favorable. He made two points, one based on his conception of drama’s basic needs, the other based on past experience when Davidson had one director for both speech and dramatics. “I don’t think one man can possibly do the job for drama consistent with the plans originally conceived by the president,” he stated. “In addition to a full-time director, a full-time technical assistant is needed for drama. Drama also must have a secretary to be in the office all the time to provide the continuity the program needs.”

“We did have one man before,” he remembered, “and after a couple of years we had no debate and no drama.” Goodykoontz indicated that the problem is not one of getting one man to handle debate and drama, but rather one of administration attitude. “They don’t know the problems over there. Unless they do change their ways...” He threw up his hands and walked out of the room.

(Note: The views of THE DAVIDSONIAN on the present state of the Vagabonds are expressed in this week's editorial.)

Debaters Take Fifth In Tourney

BY CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

The Davidson debaters competed in the Alpha Tau Kappa National Forensic Tournament at Ball State Teachers College, in Muncie, Ind., on April 8-10. Davidson sent a four-man team to the event in which 50 schools from every section of the country were represented. Debating the affirmative were Bob Llewellyn and Harry Daniel, who won six out of eight debates, winning fourth place in the 25-team event. Debating the negative were Bill Rule and Skip Jones, who won one out of eight debates. Overall, Davidson had a 7-9 record and was in a four-way tie for fifth place. Wabash College won the four-man team competition, and the University of Alabama won RT (a two-man team debates both affirmative and negative).

Dr. J. T. Drake, debate coach, said that he was pleased with the team’s performance, especially the speaking scores which he felt were good. “I am glad we took the trip,” he said. “We met a lot of people and had a very pleasant time together.” Drake added that if it were financially possible he hoped to send at least a two-man team to the event next year. He feels that the event serves as a good final debate for senior debaters.

According to Drake, a debate banquet will be held in the near future honoring TKA members and those who made trips with the debate team.

Male Chorus Plans Concert Program

The Davidson College Male Chorus will give a formal concert on Monday evening, April 22, in Hodson Hall at 8:15. The chorus will sing several early German numbers in their native language. Donald Plott, director of the chorus, commented that these numbers should be of interest to German students and professors. Included in the program are two pieces from “Quatre Petites Prières de Saint François D’Assise” by Poulenc. These pieces are based on two French prayers of St. Francis of Assisi. Further variety in the program will be added through the presentation of the work of many contemporary composers. “Grass” by Fenno Heath, the director of the Yale Glee Club, will be performed. This piece is based on the poem by Carl Sandburg. Baritone soloist Doug Heidt will sing Roger Wagner's arrangement of “Lowlands.” Also on the program are “The Raider” by Homer Keller, and “Holiday Song” by William Schuman who is president of the Lincoln Center of Arts in New York City.

Freshman Council Ends Work For Current Year

BY BILL AITKEN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Freshman Council officially concluded their work for the school year 1962-1963 on Wednesday night. The half-hour meeting centered primarily around projects for, and organization of, next year's council. This year's council had previously submitted to Dean Richard C. Burts suggestions for improving the Freshman Orientation program and freshman-faculty relations.

Four principal proposals drew most of the representatives’ discussion. The most important of these was the need to have the officers of next year’s council elected as soon as possible. This proposal would enable them to do more planning and work on Freshman Parent’s Day, the council’s main project. Parent's Day this year was handled almost entirely by Burts and Freshman Advisor Spud Stewart.

It was also submitted that next year's council work closely with the Student Council in relating to the freshmen the policies and attitudes of the administration on current issues of interest to the students. This would also include the council submitting the freshmen’s ideas on the value of the courses they are taking and on school policy concerning vital issues.

The main project on which the council has been working this year is a cultural fund. This fund would be for the use of the Richardson Scholars, enabling them to attend cultural events of interest to them outside Davidson. This money would pay for their tickets and transportation to these programs. At present this project has not been finalized.

Funds Flowing Slowly For Weekend In April

Mrs. Moore claims she never should have moved anyone out of Richardson dorm with so few girls on campus. This is the most sparsely attended of the IFC's three dance weekends this year. Nevertheless, the last big weekend in the college year begins tonight with the long-awaited D-Club “Foolies.” The show will begin at 7:30 in the Chambers Auditorium. According to D-Club President Bob Cordle, the Foolies will feature “the best can-can line this side of Queens College.” After the Foolies, the novel.

Kelley Will Head IFC; Binkley, Worthen Assist

Newly elected IFC officers (l-r) Haynes Kelley (president), Jim Binkley (secretary), and George Worthen (treasurer) discuss alternate plans for the weekend in case it rains Friday night and the Four Saints fail to show Saturday. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Engle Awards FAF Prizes To Davidson Art Students

Frank Engle, associate professor of art at the University of Alabama, awarded several prizes to Davidson art students in Fine Arts Festival competition on April 9. In the field of drawings, Jim Tanner, a junior, won first prize for his drawing of a Confederate soldier; John McElfresh, who drew a charcoal nude (an.

Williams To Give Recital With Choir

Dr. Grier M. Williams, trumpet soloist, and the Davidson College Woodwind Choir will give a recital on Friday, April 26, at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Williams will be accompanied by Mrs. William Tritt. Williams will play Corelli’s Concerto for Trumpet in D, a baroque work, and two modern pieces: Piece in C by Andre Gedalge, and Concertino by Ennio Porrino.

The Woodwind Choir, under Williams' direction, will play Richard Strauss’ Serenade in Eb for Thirteen Wind Instruments; Suite of Dances for Woodwind Choir by Davidson Professor David Richey, and Haydn's Concerto for Trumpet, which was originally written for keyed bugle. The Suite is Richey’s first composition for woodwinds alone and was written especially for the Woodwind Choir.

The Woodwind Choir is made up of all the woodwinds in the Wind Ensemble. According to Williams, Davidson is one of the few colleges in the nation which has concerts given by its small ensembles.

Master Storyteller Shares His Dream With Davidson

He is the Hans Christian Anderson of the South who has collected folklore from the Blue Ridge Mountains. And he is a man who has lost nearly all hope that his dream will ever come true.

Because the embers of a dream still burn deep within his very heart and soul, America’s master folklorist Richard Chase came down from Western North Carolina’s Blue Ridge Mountains, down from the home he loves, to journey awhile across the Piedmont Plateau, until he reached Davidson.

He came here to share with us the banked fire of his dream, with the hope that this institution of higher learning could provide the fuel he has never been able to find so that his dream might burst into a glorious flame for the benefit of this community and Americans everywhere.

His name is Richard Chase, and he paid us his visit a long month ago as part of the Vagabonds’ “Hootenanny.” He sang a song at that time, and then he told a most unusual tale, a yarn of the type that has made him the master storyteller of this country. It was a tale of another time, of another century. But it held the audience in its magic grasp. For in it was something that is America. It was the story of a bad old blacksmith named Wicked John, the story of a man too ornery for even the Devil to take into his Hell, and the folk explanation of will-o’-the-wisps. It was all three of these things, and, at the same time, the folk element ran deep: America’s heritage, her spirit, and her humor were brought out in a way that only one gifted by the gods could have conveyed them.

After delighting the small but appreciative audience with his story, Richard Chase told a few more.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of his hope, but who still can dream. been stymied by red tape in the. Of French from high schools. school administration. The members expressed great desire to see this project realized in the near or immediate future. However, any action on this has been delayed until the administration approves it. C. Shaw Smith concluded the meeting by suggesting that the council offer its services to various departments of the college such as the athletic, music, or YMCA. The council has done some work already in this area by aiding Chaplain Will Terry colleges and universities. The French Department at Davidson is in charge of arrangements, which include two sessions—a panel discussion and a luncheon in the Morrison Room of the Union. The new language laboratories will be open in the afternoon. Officers of the association include Professor Johnny Young of Catawba College, president, and Miss Evelyn Vandiver of the State Department of Public Instruction, secretary-treasurer.

about his secret dream. He told them the real reason that had brought him here to Davidson. It is no mean dream: it is one that should be drawn into the dawning light of day. And yet it is merely a dream, but one that could come true. Richard Chase wants the drama group here at Davidson, the Vagabonds, to stage the very tale that he told that night, the old beloved folk tale of Wicked John. But he wants something more, something that might place for his portrait of Mrs. D. Grier Martin. Lewis Martin came in second for his portrait of Tanner's roommate Jim Colburn. Third was John Hall with a blue head in the style of the abstract expressionists. Alexander Wustman, with a picture of

Shares with Davidson
BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

America. He is a master storyteller, a man of the southern Appalachians for nigh onto forty years. He really brings his vision into reality. Mr. Robert Sailstad, chairman of the Vagabonds’ Planning and Governing Board, said, “I am really enthusiastic about the idea.” And if the administration throws its support behind it, such a folk theater could prove to be one of the most outstanding things this school has ever done. Chase will be available for invaluable consultation about the types of old songs or ballads that could be worked into the plays and about the forms of old dances of which he has a wealth of knowledge. But his vision goes even further. The old man would like many different colleges and universities throughout this wide land of America to follow Davidson's lead, to experience a rebirth in the very cultural traditions that form the soul of our country, to form folk theaters of their own. If his idea is successful and takes root among the colleges of the country, the very place that our traditions should be preserved and cherished, then Chase believes that either the government or a private group will construct an outdoor theater in the mountains of Western North Carolina which will preserve our folk tales, dances, and songs forever.

But Chase is ashamed to say that he has been to scores of colleges and universities with the idea of a folk theater without success. And he has been at it for many, many years. Through the efforts of Mrs. Charles Lloyd, he came to perform four weeks ago in the “Hootenanny” and share with the Vagabonds his dream. Several of that group like his idea and want to begin next year with a fresh drama program that might turn into a folk drama program. Dr. William Goodykoontz liked the idea, but he warned the old storyteller that it might be easier to look elsewhere. Chase only smiled and said that he had given up hope long ago. But the dream still burned within him. For that reason, he is still corresponding with the Vagabonds; he still hopes that he can help them put on “Wicked John” next year.

FBI Agent's Topic: Communist Threat

interpretation of a work by Matisse; and Tanner's drawing of a kneeling man also won prizes. First mention for woodcuts was awarded to sophomore Bob Graham for his group of three woodcuts taken from the giant Easter Island stone heads. Tanner, with a harbor scene, and Hall, with a bird, came in second and third, respectively. The only prize awarded for sculpture was given to Wustman, a Richardson Scholar from Germany, for his head of Christian Faber-Rod, from Denmark. It is an abstract work in the German Expressionist tradition. Prizes in color theory (study of the use and effect of colors, without too much emphasis on form) were awarded to Mrs. Martin, who used an arrangement of chairs as a subject; to Tanner, who had an abstract painting; and to Hall's still life. If there is enough work to justify it, it will be given at a later time. Professor Doug Houchens said regarding the student work that it was “fresh, alive, and comparable to work done in larger schools, which have majors in art.” “He (Engle) was feet and happy over the quality of work students were doing here.” Engle took about one fifth of the work students had done this year to be considered for prizes. According to Houchens, the selection of winners was very intuitive. The works which won prizes are now on display in the studio of the Fine Arts Building. The rest of the student work will be put on display later at various places on the campus.

Dr. Fern Stukenbroeker will speak in chapel Thursday, April 25. The topic of his talk will be “The Threat of the Communist Party to the United States.” Stukenbroeker will speak again at 2 p.m. in the Green Room of the Student Union on “The Work of the United States Government on Apprehending Communists.” Again in the Green Room at 7 p.m., Stukenbroeker will talk on “The Use of Propaganda by the Communists.” The discussion group on communist ideology conducted by Dr. E. F. Patterson will conclude its series of meetings Tuesday, April 23, instead of Wednesday the 24th as was originally planned. George Oehler, chairman of the YMCA Open Forum Committee, stated that the object of Patterson's study group was to give those interested an insight into the intellectual theory of the communist movement. “Stukenbroeker’s lectures,” said Oehler, “should be completely practical. Thus the person who attends both can get a fairly good picture of both sides of the question.” Stukenbroeker has worked in this field for over 20 years. He is recommended by FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover as an expert in the field of communist subversion.

“These weekends are getting so slim, I think we just ought to stop having them,” mused Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories, as she thought over plans for Spring Frolics this weekend. A street dance will be held around the fraternity court. Two combos will play from 9 until 12 as the first long night begins. The “Zodiacs” will be playing in front of the Kappa Sig house; the “Turchords” will be playing in front of the Beta house. According to Haynes Kelly, newly-elected Interfraternity Council president, “Everything should go pretty smoothly. I think this street dance is a good idea and I just hope it all goes OK.” In case of bad weather, the dance(s) will be in the College Union. Saturday afternoon’s concert in Chambers Auditorium will feature the Four Saints. The program will begin at 2 p.m. The Four Saints—John Howell, Doug Evans, Bob Erickson, and Jerry DuChene—are all from Washington State. They attended the University of Puget Sound where Howell was a Sigma Chi and DuChene, Evans, and Erickson were SAE's. Kelly calls the group “fantastic” and promises an outstanding concert. This is the Saints' first visit to Davidson. After the concert on Saturday, many students will be heading out of Mecklenburg County to the mountains and beaches. Saturday night may find a relatively quiet and deserted campus. For the weekend's sports fans, Davidson faced the University of Richmond in a track meet this afternoon in the Stadium.

The Interfraternity Council voted Haynes Kelley president for next year on election night last Monday. Jim Binkley will be next year's IFC secretary and George Worthen treasurer. The IFC has no office of vice-president. Kelley, a KA, is a rising senior from Scarsdale, N. Y. He is a member of Scabbard and Blade and the Beaver Club. A Sig Ep from Winston-Salem, Binkley is an English major and a member of Philanthropic Literary Society. He is also a charter member of Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity and has served as project chairman and recording secretary. Worthen, from Little Rock, Ark., is a Pi Kapp, having served as Intramural Athletic Council representative and rush chairman. He is also business manager for the YMCA Freshman Camp this summer. In other business, the IFC discussed activities for Spring Frolics. The new officers are in charge, being assisted by this year’s officers.

Price Will Present Vereen Bell Award

Reynolds Price, novelist and short story writer, will be the chapel speaker on Tuesday, April 23, to present the Vereen Bell Award for Creative Writing. The award, a cash prize of $75, is given each year to the undergraduate of Davidson who has shown the most outstanding work in the field of creative writing. Price will be here on the evening of Monday, April 22, to meet with the members of Sigma Upsilon, the honorary creative writing fraternity. At the Tuesday assembly, he will speak and then announce this year’s recipient of the Vereen Bell Award for Creative Writing. The entries for the award have been turned into the English Department where they are then screened, reduced in number to about a half-dozen, and sent to Price, who makes the final decision.

Price won the William Faulkner Foundation Award for the most notable first novel by an American in 1962, A Long and Happy Life. His next work is a volume of short stories called The Names and Faces of Heroes which will be published in June. After graduating from Duke University, Price attended Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar and is now a member of the Department of English at Duke. This award was founded in memory of a 1932 Davidson graduate, Vereen Bell, who had gained wide recognition for his short stories and novels, particularly for Swamp Water which was later made into a successful movie. The purpose of the award is to bring well-known critics and writers to the campus to speak and to honor student literary achievement.