FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Sports Scene:
BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

SPRING...

Spring is the time of the unsubsidized athletics at Davidson and often the time of athletic disappointments. This spring has not been a particularly bright one for Davidson teams but it has not been without its bright spots either. Last weekend, those people who didn’t have to leave campus for Charlotte, Winston-Salem or other points of interest until the early evening, were treated to one of the most colorful of Davidson's spring events—the Davidson Relays.

Although a track meet can often drag along, Saturday's Relays had very few periods of inaction. From the very beginning until the final event there was little else but action. Sandwiched in among the day's events were some happenings which remain in the memory because of their exciting or dramatic quality.

At the end of the day there was the first leg of the two-mile relay, in which Washington and Lee University had entered their team. At this stage of the competition, the final outcome of the meet was still very much in doubt. Washington and Lee was only a few points below Davidson. Due to a manpower shortage, Washington and Lee was forced to enter a man on their team who had no previous experience in this event. In fact, the only event he had trained for was an extremely long-distance race. He was the third man on the relay team, and by the time the baton was passed to him, W&L had built up a substantial lead. As his coach related later, this man had no idea of how to run an 880-yard race. He just began to run as fast as he could. He ran a great first quarter and increased the previous lead, but as he came out of the last turn in his second lap, it was evident that he was tiring rapidly. He began to stagger and fell only yards from the handoff zone. But he still had not quit, for he rose to his feet, only to fall into the cinders again. Although he couldn't rise again, he did try to crawl to the handoff zone, but he collapsed flat on the track. At this point he was only six inches from the handoff area. The fourth man on the relay team reached over the line and picked up the baton from his fallen teammate’s hand. He continued the race and went on to finish first, but the W&L team was disqualified for making an illegal pass—out of the passing zone. Washington and Lee lost this race, but in running it, they provided one of the top thrills of the day.

Another peculiar situation arose in the 440-yard relay. Due to injuries, Davidson was forced to draft Jack Hollenbeck from the intramural softball fields to run the third leg. Hollenbeck came through to team with Bob Cordle, Ken Kelley, and Alan Turner to place second in the event. Speaking of Alan Turner, his run was particularly exciting to watch all afternoon. In one event, he came high-stepping down the final few yards, eating up the distance and leaving his opponents behind him.

There were other outstanding events that day. Billy Mills' duel with High Point College's Steve Bowers in the pole vault, injured captain Bob Cordle’s performances in the broad jump (which he won) and three running events, and High Point's record-breaking distance relay teams were but a few of the particulars that made the Davidson Relays the most exciting sports event of the season. The weather was beautiful and there was plenty of action. If you missed the Relays, then you missed a real attraction. We congratulate the track team on their winning effort.

SPRING VERSATILITY...

On another part of this page, there is the picture of three of Davidson's most versatile athletes. All three of these men have played at least three varsity sports at Davidson. Sophomore Charlie Marcon was a guard on this year’s basketball team and played in all but three games. This spring he is one of the catchers for the baseball team, and at the same time competes for the track team in the hop, step, and jump event. Last Saturday he earned one point with his fifth-place finish in the Davidson Relays. Sophomore Don Davidson, last year’s winner of the outstanding freshman athlete’s award, was a starter for this year’s basketball team. This spring he played quite a bit of outfield for the baseball team and is the track team’s leading javelin man. Last week he won the Davidson Relays’ javelin event with a throw of 183’ 2½”. Senior Bob Cordle is probably one of the few men to play four varsity sports at Davidson. He was captain of this year’s varsity football team. He has always been one of the mainstays for the indoor track team, and he is currently captain of Davidson's outdoor trackmen and one of the leading broad jumpers and dash men. Cordle’s fourth varsity sport is baseball. He serves a rather unique function on this team. This year the Southern Conference has put into practice an experimental rule. This rule allows the team at bat to substitute a runner anytime that the pitcher or catcher reaches base with two out. The purpose of the rule is to eliminate the delay which often occurs when a pitcher or catcher must return to the dugout before taking his warmups at the end of an inning. Cordle is Davidson's substitute runner. Already this season, he has stolen two bases.

Last Saturday, Davidson's track team captured the fourth annual Davidson Relays from a field of athletes who represented fifteen participating schools. After touring the campus and Main Street, the athletes quickly built up a lead in the early afternoon field events. Suffering from a pulled muscle, Bob Cordle managed to take the broad jump with a leap of 21’11”. The amazing Don Davidson, who finds time for track after baseball practice in the afternoon, came through with a first place in the javelin competition. His toss of 183’ 2” was his best for the season. High Point set a meet record in the pole vault, clearing the bar at 12’6”. Davidson's Billy Mills equaled the height but had to settle for second place. The old record of 12’2” was broken by both Mills and High Point's quartet. After finishing second to Lenoir Rhyne's record-breaking time of 43 seconds flat in the quarter-mile relay, the 'Cats...

DAVIDSON'S THREE MOST VERSATILE SPRING ATHLETES, CHARLIE MARCON (CATCHING), BOB CORDLE (BATTING) AND DON DAVIDSON practice their early afternoon sport before adjourning to track practice. Track Captain Cordle doubles as a sprinter and broad jumper, Marcon is a triple jumper and Davidson throws the javelin.

Baseball Team Splits Two With The Citadel
BY FORREST ROLES
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's improving baseball team again split even last week, as they dropped the first game of last Friday’s doubleheader to The Citadel 8-2, but came back to take the second, 3-1. A game against Belmont Abbey was rained out the following Tuesday. In Friday's first game, Dave Johnson, the ‘Cats’ leading pitcher, couldn't get anyone out. Lance Walker, Davidson's leading hitter, opened the...Fourth batter in the first inning, Johnson, hit a line single. After Rick Smyre popped up, McNay drove his second triple into left center, scoring Walker. Right fielder Tommy James then drove in McNay with a single. Tom Hamilton’s fine job in finishing the game was of no avail as the Bulldogs won 8-2. This afternoon, the ‘Cats left on their northern swing. Tomorrow they face the Richmond Spiders in Richmond. 

In the second game, it was another story. This time, Earl Cole threw a three-hitter, and his teammates hit in the clutch as the ‘Cats won 3-1. Tony McNay led the ‘Cats’ attack with two triples, one instrumental in the two-run fourth inning that sealed the win. Monday, they will face George Washington in Washington for another doubleheader. The ‘Cats will close their season on May 10 and May 11 against Rollins here.

BATTING
Name          AB  R  H  RBI  BA
Lance Walker  39  7  14  7  .359
Rick Smyre    70  7  19  10 .271
Phil Squier   38  8  10  3  .263
Tom Hamilton  70  15 16  11 .229
Tony McNay    58  5  13  9  .224
Tom Whitley   70  9  15  12 .214

PITCHING
Name          IP    H   R  ER BB SO W-L  ERA
Earl Cole     44    38  25 12 26 38 1-3  2.45
Dave Johnson  42.2  39  30 13 29 26 2-5  2.74
Paul Briggs   31.2  33  18 15 16 27 1-3  4.18
Tom Hamilton  28.2  29  19 17 17 32 2-1  5.40

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... the famous OPEN KITCHEN, 1318 W. Morehead, Charlotte, N.C.

Davidson managed a second-place tie with Washington and Lee in the 880-yard relay. The familiar combination of Alan Turner, Joel Morrisett, Ken Kelley, and Bob Cordle made up Davidson's 880-yard relay team. In the interval between these two events, Davidson had carried away a second place in the sprint medley relay competition.

The stage was now set for a dramatic close to the day's efforts; Coach Whittle’s Wildcats needed a fourth-place finish in the final event, the two-mile relay, to beat out Washington and Lee for first place. Running the first half-mile for Davidson, Denny Phillips ran up an early lead of some 10 yards over the High Point entrant, only to see the margin disintegrate by the time he had passed the baton to Bob Leslie. Despite good performances by Sterling Martin and Ronnie Reese, the latter doing his 880 in 1:59, High Point took first with a time of 8:07.3, thirteen seconds better than the old record set by them in 1961. Davidson's second-place finish was good for a first place in the meet, the ‘Cats amassing 42.4 points. Washington and Lee was second, and Lenoir Rhyne was third.

AIRBORNE ON FIBER GLASS.... AND CLEARS.... A SAFE LANDING.... record Mills’ Davidson Relays. previous 12’24” POLE VAULTER BILL MILLS SHOWS THE FORM he used in breaking his own school record with a leap of 12’6” Saturday in the Netters Whip Deacons, Lose Two To Tough Foes.

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Dropping two conference matches over the past weekend, the Davidson College tennis team returned to the home court to defeat the netters from Wake Forest on Wednesday 5-3. The Wildkittens swept their match from the Baby Deacs 9-0. Last weekend, the ‘Cats met with some bad luck and fell to VMI and VPI, respectively. On Friday, the locals lost 6-3 in what might be called a mild upset; the Wildcats were hurt early when Frank Bumgardner twisted his ankle and had to default both his singles and doubles matches. Winning for the ‘Cats were seniors, Captain Bobby Austell, Bill Backlund, and Rick Reed in the singles; Austell and Shutt captured the number one doubles and Ariail and Reed combined nicely to capture the number three doubles. The final doubles match was called because of darkness. The freshmen ran over the Wake Forest frosh, snatching their second victory against one loss.

N.C. State Drops Golfers Conference Tourney Next

BY TUCK JONES
Assistant Davidsonian Sports Editor

Coach Tom Scott’s varsity golf team completed its final tune-up for the Southern Conference tournament with a 14-6 loss to North Carolina State Thursday at Gastonia. The defeat gave the ‘Cats a season's record of 5-6. Highlight of the day was a hole in one by States Mickey Goodwin. The squad will depart Sunday for Myrtle Beach, where they will host the Southern Conference Tournament at the Dunes Club beginning May 8. Although the team was 4-0 in conference play, Coach Scott commented that this record means very little. But he adds that he considers his team a potential dark horse for tournament honors.

Tomorrow, the Wildcats meet Duke at Durham. Here, they will host George Washington on May 6, 7, and the tournament host school. Following the tournament, the netters will play host to East Carolina in a non-conference match.

AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST
VISIT THE Tastee Freez In Cornelius
HAMBURGERS CHEESEBURGERS HOT DOGS FRENCH FRIES MILK SHAKES