The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Why?

News of John Kennedy’s death has just come in over the radio, and none of us really believe it yet,
because we don’t understand about minds twisted enough to do what some inhuman coward did in Dallas today.

Toward Clarity

During the past several days it has become increasingly apparent that some additional comments and clarifications are in order concerning
the situation in the library. Last week we stated that an all-out concerted effort was needed to bring the library
up to a par with those in other liberal arts colleges. This is not to say that nothing has been
done in recent years that could be termed “progress.” Progress has in fact been made, especially since 1958, when Dr.
Martin became president of the college. Since 1958 the book stock has been increased from 77,409 to 97,481 volumes. The
amount spent on books, microfilm, and periodicals has risen from $18,919 to $33,047 during this period. In the past ten
years the amount spent on books has risen some 308 per cent; book stock is up 51 per cent since
1953. This is certainly a step in the right direction. We have nothing but commendation for President Martin’s administration for
its efforts in this field. But we feel that 100,000 volumes is not sufficient at Davidson, and we deplore the
excuses and promises which are so numerous every time we ask when some real steps are going to be taken
toward sufficiency. The pace which the administration has set for itself here is about one-fourth what it should be. The
college is moving, yes. But is the movement fast enough to keep her in the race with other institutions and
with her own goals?

Monday’s chapel speaker, Dr. John Bevan, Dean of Faculty at Florida Presbyterian, remarked that today’s generation foolishly places its emphasis
on things rather than on people. Then Dr. Bevan rather ignorantly tried to apply this ‘fact’ to last week's editorial
on the library. Did the good Dean actually think that we advocate more volumes just for the sake of having
several hundred thousand books? Was he so blind as to think that books are no more than things? He apparently
thought that we were pushing for several hundred thousand volumes of blank pages. Such a statement is almost too absurd
to warrant a reply. To have a quality college library, it is necessary to have a great quantity of books.
Our library has good quality books, simply because Dr. Davidson and the faculty have bought very little trash; they have
purchased books carefully, and any unusable volumes have been culled out. But this is still not to say that Davidson
has a quality library. There are many basic shortages now, and we are falling further behind each year.

As for Dr. Bevan’s concern about our concern for “things” — would he deny that a library’s books are used
solely by people? Every person in this college — students, faculty, and administration — would surely derive benefit from those
‘things’ known as books. And if this is not enough for Dr. Bevan, may we remind him that more money
would definitely provide more reasonable salaries for the members of the library staff. Is this “personal” enough? Staff salaries will
definitely have to be raised if Davidson expects to see her library grow. The president’s office whines that librarians and
cataloguers are not easy to find. Well, this would seem logical. Librarians won't exactly come running to a college that
pays less salary than many other colleges and universities.

Some members of the college community have blamed the faculty for our shortcomings in the library. It has been suggested
that “many” faculty members do not spend the money that is presently allocated to them for books. This is simply
not true. This may have been the case several years back, but present library records show that all allocated library
funds in 1962-1963 were spent on books. It must be admitted that past years have seen some lack of interest
on the professor’s part in this respect. We would hope that every member of the faculty views his own particular
field as being important enough to warrant its proper representation in the library. If the administration does “bring home the
bacon” with which we can purchase many new volumes, the faculty must then devote considerable time and thought to the
matter of buying books and buying them wisely.

Again, we trust that the administration has its eye on the future and recognizes that future college students will demand
more and more seminar-type courses. This means there will be more independent study, which must be done in the college
library. At present, the Davidson College library could not adequately support such a program. If 1970 finds us with a
library of only 140,000 or so volumes, we could well see Davidson lose her place as a reputable liberal arts
college.

Southern Inhospitality

If Ferenc Nagy exhibited something less than overwhelming enthusiasm in chapel Tuesday and in his talk that night, we believe
we understand why. When Nagy went to San Antonio to speak at Trinity University, he was met at the plane
by a delegation of civic and university leaders, and was given a reception at which he was made an honorary
citizen of the state. His address was made in the Trinity auditorium to an overflow crowd, many of whom had
paid to hear him. When Nagy spoke at Agnes Scott College in Decatur, his visit was covered by the Atlanta
newspapers, and the school administration held a formal reception for him off-campus. Again he spoke to a large crowd in
the Scott auditorium.

When Nagy came to Davidson, he was not met at the plane by civic leaders. He was not met by
the President of Davidson College, nor indeed by any member of the administration or of the so-called “public relations” office.
He was not even met by professors from the history or political science departments. Ferenc Nagy, former prime minister of
Hungary, who was introduced in chapel by Dean Johnston as a man who “has helped to make the history of
his country and of our generation,” was met by two students. In place of a reception, he was driven to
a fraternity house, arriving 45 minutes after dinnertime. There he was fed a cold supper by the surprised waiters. Following
supper, he was taken to the guest house, where he sat for over an hour before his baggage and a
representative from the college arrived. Nagy wasn’t even introduced in chapel by the President. This we cannot understand—the man is
a former head of state! We have seen the President introduce businessmen of far less consequence with practically nothing of
intellectual importance to say. Then came the coffee hour and talk that night. Nine people went to the coffee hour,
and eight to the evening talk, which had to be moved from Hodson Hall to the choir room in the
Fine Arts Building. Once again the faculty proved its right to level underachievement charges at the student body, as a
total of two professors attended the two talks. The political science department went completely unrepresented, surpassed by the history department’s
one representative. Student history and political science majors, inspired by the professorial turnout, failed to show also.

Yet Nagy is a man who was himself a part of and knows firsthand much about modern European history. He
literally made history come alive as he spoke of talking with Harry Truman about Western diplomacy after World War II,
and he related incidents such as his handing his resignation as Hungarian Prime Minister across the Austro-Swiss border to Communist
agents in exchange for his four-year-old son.

The miserable turnout was due in part to the near-total absence of publicity. This was partly our fault, but we
did not receive a picture or press release. The first we heard of the talk Tuesday night was Tuesday morning
in chapel. Nagy came to Davidson to attempt to explain what exile groups are doing towards liberating eastern Europe from
Communist domination. The man hopes to effect an awareness among Americans as to the problems faced by those countries. We
think perhaps he left Davidson feeling he is fighting for a lost cause.

Tinkering With The Library

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Mrs. Hetzel Applauds Rights Equality Group

Dear Editor:

“Integrationists Organize” by Bob Adams is an encouraging indication of hope for better understanding of our country’s social revolution. The
thoughtful and concerned faculty members and students who are seeking ways to bring about better communication among all members of
the Davidson community are spearheading a movement which I sincerely hope will be joined by all. There are no doubt
many white members of the community who might profitably share in your efforts. When the ministers of your churches fearlessly
preach in moral indignation against all forms of discrimination, you will be assisted in reaching the group so often in
need of counseling — the white churchgoer. To quote a Tennessee (white) school teacher, “Miss Stella Groomes,” “Whether right or
wrong, I have been reared all my life in the Southern tradition. All along, the churches should have been educating
the people that segregation is morally bad.” I sympathize with Miss Groomes, as will I feel sure all white women
in Davidson. With the help of the inter-racial group leadership envisioned at Davidson, I believe many in your community will
be enabled to throw off the crippling burden of their heritage.

From my own personal experience I can think of no worse bondage by which to shackle a child than the
“Southern tradition.” One of the reasons we in Washington feel so strongly sympathetic with all Americans who are denied their
Constitutional rights is because we have been denied self-government and the right to vote up until now. In the 1964
presidential election we will vote for president and vice-president for the first time. Wecannot, however, elect our local officials or
legislators and we have no representation in the Congress which governs us. Should any Davidson student wish to take pen
in hand to help us fight for our constitutional rights, please write Congressmen Basil L. Whitener and Charles R. Jonas
of North Carolina, and Congressman John McMillan of South Carolina, asking that we be given Home Rule in the District
of Columbia and representation in the Congress by Constitutional Amendment. With gratitude to the staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and pride
that our son chose Davidson College.

Mrs. Fred Z. Hetzel
Washington, D. C.

P.S. Enclosed is a little pin which means “all are equal” regardless of skin color. I hope someone will wish
to wear it proudly as I do at all times.

W.H. Carrell Commends The Davidsonian

(ed. note: The following letter is from Danny Carrell, president of last year’s Student Council. Carrell is attending Oxford on
a Rhodes Fellowship.)

Dear Editor:

Forgive the tardiness of my comments, but it is unavoidable. DAVIDSONIANS are a month old by the time they arrive
here. I dislike anonymous letters to begin with; I detest anonymous letters, such as the one of “Samuel Johnson” (Oct.
11), that are filled with generalities, abstractions, and emotional phrases. I could have fun analyzing Samuel’s non sequitur arguments, but
I would only be wasting the reader's time and my own. Fortunately, Samuel’s son is at Davidson, where, hopefully, he
will learn to think more rationally than his father.

I did derive one benefit from reading the letter, however. It reminded me of how good THE DAVIDSONIAN really is.
Here I am at one of the greatest universities in the world, and yet I cannot say that the Oxford
University Cherwell even comes close to having the quality of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Perhaps Sam should be reminded that a good
newspaper attempts to search for the right while presenting the truth, which is not always a pleasant thing to look
at. THE DAVIDSONIAN is not infallible, of course, but it is as good as any campus newspaper I have seen.
It is unfortunate that Sam has canceled his subscription, for he will not see the comments his letter has provoked.
Perhaps DAVIDSONIANS containing this letter and others like it could be sent to Sam without charge.

Daniel A. Carrell
Merton College
Oxford, England

Edwards Attacks Chapel Behavior

Dear Editor:

I realize that manners are traditionally of little importance at this liberally conservative men’s school. Still, it seems to me
that chapel speakers are due some degree of courtesy from the student body. “The Davidson gentleman” may be a trite
phrase, but exhibitions such as the ones which accompany any speech which comes close to taking up its allotted time
make one doubt that there is a gentleman on campus. It is neither cute nor mature to interrupt a speech
with outbursts of obviously faked coughing. Gentlemanly? Not on your life!

Charles Edwards

Lane, Tate, Wilkins

Dear Editor:

During the question and answer period in chapel on Nov. 4, President Martin stated that the college had reviewed the
application of an American Negro for admittance to Davidson. This application was not accepted because he failed to meet the
admissions requirements of the college. When this applicant failed to meet the standard admissions requirements he was given further consideration
in the form of a special test. He was still refused admission. We agree with Davidson College’s willingness to accept
an American Negro and thus live up to its progressive and liberal aims as a Christian institution. In lieu of
this precedent set for examining this Negro student should not this advantage be extended to all borderline cases of all
races? We feel that all borderline cases of last year who were not given this special consideration were discriminated against.
Any applicant regardless of race should be admitted if he meets the requirements of admission, but no individual applicant should
be given special consideration because of his race. When this happens, it is reverse discrimination. How can Davidson College reconcile
this discriminatory act with its “Christian policies of fair-play and justice?”

In view of this development we...

F.C. Tate
W. W. Wilkins

Asterisk

TARBY’S RANGERS SHAM COMBAT IN SOLDIERS CHAUTAUQUA

BY RICK VON UNWERTH

“All right you guys! Come on, now! Fall in over here!” It looked like a typical ROTC operation—better not cooperate
too enthusiastically, it’ll probably be a farce. “Hey! Come on! We got to pick up our canteens!” As a matter
of fact, it ought to be good for some grins at best. Captain Partridge didn’t think that way; neither did
Colonel Wheaton, nor did some of the Cadet Special Forces staff. This was something new, something voluntary—something a little unorthodox
for Davidson. The military wasn’t preaching golden opportunities; it was presenting a Saturday night in the lonely cold and a
tangible challenge to serious soldiery. Nobody knew quite what to expect. A little war game was in the offing—tonight we'll
get to shoot up some ammunition, make some noise, play around in the woods. Nobody knew what to do, so
everybody started giving orders right out of the manual. Things started out a little slow. Classes in the rudiments of
Special Forces warfare filled out the afternoon, and the MSIII’s got a chance to listen and follow. It was away
from the classroom, the group was small, and each idea was presented seriously by the seniors. Misgivings began to slip
away. By dark, after the C Rations were disposed of and the faces were smeared with blacking, the fellowship was
beginning to take a back seat to the problem ahead. Captain Partridge and Tarby Bryant briefed the raiders. The tactical
problem was designed to test individual proficiency and leadership capability. “We want to see if your maneuver elements can maneuver.”
Partridge outlined the hypothetical situation. They were a Special Forces unit, deep behind enemy lines, with a mission to destroy
a Communist broadcast station and move out immediately. The mission involved a two-phase operation: make contact with the native guerilla
leader, then follow his directions to the objective. Bryant and his staff emphasized the Special Forces axioms: move quickly and
quietly and avoid time-consuming combat engagements at all costs. Precision timing is paramount. At 8:00 the problem went tactical. No
talking, no smoking, no resting. The 23 raiders were dropped off in groups of twos and threes, some with MSIV
assistant instructors along as graders, at various points around Mountain Island Lake. Using military maps and compasses, they were to
meet at an assembly point, proceed as a group under direction of section leader Mike Thurman to a rendezvous with
guerilla leader Eric Heinz, and from there plot an attack on the objective before 2:00 a.m. Using radio code messages,
alternate routes, and ingenuity, team leaders Jim Brindell and Glen Haines moved their units into positions near the rendezvous by
midnight. The attempt at contact with Heinz was unsuccessful on the first try. “The contact phase is the toughest part
of these operations,” said Special Forces veteran Col. Wheaton. “Sometimes it takes weeks to make it in an actual theater
of operations. The timing has to be perfect. Communication with the guerillas is dangerous and difficult, and any number of
things could interfere with the rendezvous.” So the problem took an administrative break for additional instruction. Tactical again, Brindell’s team
joined Heinz, who spoke only Spanish during the rendezvous. In overcoat and serape, with a pistol strapped to his chest,
Argentina-born foreign student Heinz crouched over a map with the raiders and communicated his intelligence report to the eager marauders.
Translated, it meant another mile of thick briars and a pair of manned machine guns before the objective. Thurman and
his men planned a wide sweep and a flanking attack on the IV’s guarding the simulated radio station. Off again
into the dark labyrinth of shadows and brambles. At 1:45 advisor Partridge considered giving up. “Thurman, this is Captain Partridge,”
he called into his walkie-talkie. “Are you lost?” His answer came ten minutes later with a barrage of shouts and
blank M-1 rounds. Sweeping in from the right flank of the position, Thurman overran tenacious Bob Winslow and his outpost
machine-gun and stormed into the weed-cloaked simulated radio shack. The demolitions team placed their explosives, and the IV’s gave way
to the counter-attack. Minutes later, exploding artillery simulators pronounced the success of the mission, and Thurman assembled his forces at
the pick-up point for the long march back. The twenty-three individuals who had debarked into the woods just after dark
marched into the base camp at 3:00 that morning as a single unit. They came cold and tired, but with
justifiable pride and an exuberant spirit that warmed the cockles of Captain Partridge’s Regular Army heart. In the wake of
this strategic initial success, Tarby’s Rangers are plotting more extensive functions for social low spots in the coming months. Colonel
Wheaton and Bryant intimated prospects for problems involving helicopters, amphibious operations, and a military junta to overthrow the Spratt regime
sometime in the spring.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Stitt

BUSINESS MANAGER
Rick Finch

Associate Editors
Tim Kimrey
News Editor
Jim Downey
Bill Ruth
Photography Editor
Joe McCutchen
Jeff Wampler
Photographers
Sam Smith
Romir Chatterjee
Managing Editors
Charles Dibble
Cartoonists
Dan Adams
Charles Ramberg
Johnny Wright
Assistant Editor
Rick von Unwerth
Rufus Hallmark
Assignments Editor
Feature Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Bob Strauser

Contributors This Week:
John Todd, Paul van den Berg, Tom Loflin, Charlie Smith, Rick Lowery, Irvine Welling, Malcolm Lane, Forrest Roles, Jim Beasley,
Eric Nichols, David Powell, George Fain, Ron Snow, Cliff Kirkpatrick, David Coffey, Taylor Blackwell, Johnny Clark, Britt Snider, Harry Carr,
Bill Norfleet, Tom Peaden, Joe Davis, and Rufus Adair.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
