Ch VOL. LI!

LBJ: A Texan Takes Reins
BY JIMMY DOWNEY

The 36th President of the United States, Lyndon Baines Johnson, was sworn in this afternoon after the death of President
John Kennedy. The new President was near Kennedy in a separate car when the assassin’s shots rang out but was
unharmed. Serving as Vice President under Kennedy since 1961, Johnson, known popularly as LBJ, now will take the reins of
the country as the chief executive.

Born near Stonewall, Texas, on Aug. 27, 1908, LBJ is the eldest son of Samuel and Rebekah Johnson, both of
whose families were pioneer families of central Texas. He attended the Blanco County schools in Johnson City and was graduated
in 1924 from the town’s high school. By doing janitor’s work he was able to attend the Southwest Texas State
Teachers College. He was graduated in 1930 and became a public school teacher in Houston.

Two years later Johnson went to Washington, D.C. as secretary to Representative Richard M. Kleberg, holding this position until 1935.
After a year at Georgetown Law School in the capital, Johnson became state director of the National Youth Administration of
Texas. He resigned in 1937 to become a candidate for the House of Representatives from the Tenth District of Texas.
At the age of 29, LBJ received the Democratic nomination to fill the post left by the death of James
P. Buchanan. He ran in the election on a platform endorsing Roosevelt's policies, including the Supreme Court reorganization plan, and
gained a seat in the House.

Johnson represented his district for five terms, unopposed in his election in 1938. Three days after the attack on Pearl
Harbor, LBJ joined the U.S. Navy and was commissioned a lieutenant commander. Stationed in New Zealand and Australia, he saw
action in the South Pacific and was awarded the Silver Star in mid-1942. A member of the House Naval Affairs
Committee, Johnson in 1943 was named chairman of a Naval investigating subcommittee, serving in much the same way as the
Truman investigating committee of World War II had.

In 1948 the Texan announced his candidacy for the United States Senate. In a very close and highly disputed election,
Johnson was declared the winner in a case which went eventually to the Supreme Court. The newly elected Senator was
made a member of the Senate Armed Forces Services Committee and the Committee of Interstate and Foreign Commerce.

(Continues On Back Page)

Student Council Weighs Election Modifications

Devoting most of its time to discussion of the proposed election changes, the Student Council revised several sections of the
tentative by-laws changes and determined to decide upon the proposals at a future meeting. The modifications include the requirement that,
“No student shall be a candidate for Student Council and Honor Court positions.” Also, “All candidates for Freshman Advisor will
automatically be senior candidates for the Student Council unless the individual candidate specifies otherwise.”

Fred McGuirt brought forth a motion that, “A candidate shall run either for a student body office or Honor Court
position on the first day of elections, and if defeated in both, he is then eligible to run for a
Student Council position.” The motion was defeated 7-5. President John Spratt suggested that the Elections Board through the Student Council
should pay for a printed statement by any candidate who wishes, which would outline that person’s stands and aims in
the election. A decision will be reached on this when the proposed changes are voted upon.

Spratt announced the replacement of Hill Wellford by John Barrow as Traffic Court Advisor for this month. Reporting on a
trip to Raleigh, Tom Frist and Fred Sackett gave a resume of the National Student Association conference at N.C. State
College over the past weekend. The 310-179 victory which insured the permanence of NSA on the campus for at least
a few more months was briefly reviewed.

At the Student-Faculty Conference Committee meeting yesterday Spratt brought up the problem of seating Davidson students at the Charlotte Coliseum
basketball games. At present the seats are behind the goals at $1 per student. He announced at the Student Council
meeting that action would be taken in this matter and that the students were certainly entitled to some of the
better seats without paying the high regular prices.

Also discussed at the Thursday meeting was the possibility of keeping the gymnasium open until 11 p.m. on school nights
to enable greater use of the facilities. Dr. Tom Scott's main objection is that his help is already overworked and
that he doesn’t want to lay upon them the extra burden of tending the gym at night. To this Spratt
suggested that students be in charge of the gym at night and operate without the help of the regular daytime
assistants.

The Student-Faculty Committee also discussed the possibility of forming a group for the reception of distinguished speakers like Premier Nagy.
Mention was made of some apparent lack of planning concerning circumstances of his arrival. The Student Council will take a
recess next Monday and resume its duties with a meeting on Dec. 2.

Hungarian Ex-P.M. Meets Many Queries From Few
BY GREG GOVAN

Perhaps because Ferenc Nagy came without a bodyguard and a battery of reporters no one thought him important. Or perhaps
Davidson suffers from a glut of ex-prime ministers who come with something to say. Whatever the reason, there was hardly
a frenzy of enthusiasm over his presence on campus; of the sleepy throngs in Tuesday chapel, about eight went to
the coffee hour, seven to the “lecture” that evening. Host Will Terry was looking somewhat apologetic.

It is a pity that the attendances were not reversed. Chapel was a somewhat dry affair, for not too many
Davidsonians have lived through a Communist menace face to face, so not too many are interested in the abstract expression
of a modern European political tangle. EX-PM Ferenc Nagy pauses in analysis of the foe from the north. But in
the informal groups, Nagy was not a political polemicist. He was the prime minister of Hungary who traded his resignation
to the Communists for the life of his four-year-old son in a neat transaction at the Austrian border, one boy
for one slip of paper.

Nagy also had some things to say more directly to people than to an unempathetic audience. For instance, that the
failure on the part of the Free World in the 1956 Hungarian rebellion was not a failure of arms, but
a failure of recognition. Face to face, it was a tacit indictment of what the hell were we thinking about.

The man looked for all the world like a tired burgomaster, as if he were the embodiment of a nation
with a thousand years of history and a record of numerous oppressions. So he spoke almost world-wearily to the embodiment
of a young nation never overrun; and he spoke with authority. It was authority based on experience. He knew European
politics, both by having lived through it and by having known those involved in making it. Or the Far East.
So when Romir Chatterjee baited him about the aims of neutralist countries, Nagy could argue, and cap it with, “I
had a most interesting talk with your prime minister last summer.” And a talk with Truman. And De Gaulle. Oh
yes, he knew eastern Europe, in the only way, perhaps, it can be known. And seven or eight students, President
and Mrs. Martin, and a “fellow landsman” came to hear about it.

Governor Of Texas Also Hit By Bullets

President John Fitzgerald Kennedy is dead at the age of 46, the victim of an assassin’s bullet in Dallas, Tex.
The President was shot in the head at 1:25 EST this afternoon while riding with Texas Governor John Connally to
deliver a speech at a trade fair luncheon. Lyndon Baines Johnson, 55, who has succeeded Kennedy as the 36th president,
was riding some distance behind the presidential car and was not injured. According to early reports, an unidentified secret serviceman
was killed in the assassination. Gov. Connally is injured seriously with two bullet wounds in his back but is expected
to recover. Mrs. Kennedy and Mrs. Connally, both of whom were in the limousine, were not injured.

Dallas police have taken into custody Lee H. Oswald, 24, in connection with the slaying. Oswald has been charged in
the death of a Dallas police officer and is being interrogated in connection with the assassination of the president. Police
said the President slumped forward with blood on his head and chest immediately after three or four shots rang out
as the motorcade passed just west of downtown Dallas. The President’s bubble top limousine, with the top down, sped immediately
to Dallas Parkland Hospital. The President succumbed in the hospital’s emergency room at 2 p.m. EST.

A high-powered rifle with a telescopic sight was apparently the assassination weapon. Shortly after the shooting police officials discovered four
shells on the fifth floor of an office building directly across the street from where the assassination occurred. Police immediately
closed off the area and began an intensive search of the area.

John F. Kennedy was the fourth American President assassinated while in office. Others to die by the assassin’s bullet were
Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley. The youngest man ever to occupy the presidency, Kennedy was born in 1917, the second eldest
of nine children. He was graduated from Harvard University in 1940 and did graduate work at Stanford University. Entering the
Navy in 1941, he served as a PT boat commander in the Pacific, receiving two decorations for bravery. As a
politician, Kennedy was undefeated inAll races for national office. He served in the House of Representatives between 1946 and 1952.
During the Eisenhower year of '52, Kennedy squeaked out a victory over Henry Cabot Lodge to win a Senate seat.
In 1958, he was re-elected by a landslide margin. After barely failing to capture the Democratic vice-presidential nomination in Chicago
in 1956, Kennedy won the party’s presi- (Continued On Page Four)

ODK Selects Seven In Tapping Ceremony

Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, held its fall tapping ceremony during assembly on Monday, Nov. 18. Joe Howell, president
of ODK, presided and commissioned the tapping of seniors Hank Ackerman, Lyman Dillon, Charles Rowe, Russell Walls, and Staff Warren.
John M. Bevan, Professor Donald B. Plott, and Dr. Bevan, who was the keynote speaker for the tapping, were also
tapped.

@ Ackerman is a Dana Scholar, editor of the Scripts 'n Pranks, and a member of Beta Theta Pi social
fraternity. He is from Louisville, Ky.
@ Dillon is president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He is also a Dana Scholar and hails from High
Point. He was goalie on this year's varsity soccer team.
@ Rowe is a member of the Honor Court, the D Club, and president of Alpha Epsilon Delta, pre-medical fraternity.
He is a Dana Scholar from Lynchburg, Va., and a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity.
@ Walls is a member of the football and wrestling teams, the D Club, and Alpha Epsilon Delta. He is
from Beckley, W. Va., and belongs to Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.
@ Warren is president of the College Union, a member of Alpha Phi Omega honorary service fraternity, Le Cercle Francais,
and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He is also a Dana Scholar and is from Chapel Hill.
@ Plott came to Davidson in 1951 as assistant professor of music and is now professor of music. He received
his MM degree from the University of Michigan in 1949.
@ Bevan is Dean of the Faculty at Florida Presbyterian College. He was a member of the Davidson faculty for
seven years before going to Florida Presbyterian.

At a special meeting Wednesday night, the Interfraternity Council announced that the former plans for a formal dance with a
band and floor show on Midwinters Weekend were out of the question due to the unavailability of a suitable place.
The only facilities available for the dance would be comparable to those at Davidson. New plans were formulated calling for
a combo dance on Friday night after the Georgia Southern basketball game and for a concert, featuring a “big name”
act, on Saturday night. The combo party will last approximately two hours.

At the regular Monday night meeting this week, dates were set for the annual Barium Springs Christmas party and the
blood drive. The blood drive will be on Dec. 10 and, according to Red Cross regulations, all students 21 years
of age and under will be required to present a release signed by their parent or guardian. The Barium Springs
party was set for Dec. 13, and will include children in the first through seventh grades.

The group also decided to investigate the alleged unsatisfactory seating set-up for the Coliseum games and, if necessary, to lodge
a complaint. In previous action, the IFC had announced the results of the poll conducted several weeks ago. A total
of 252 students voted against a dance at Midwinters. Of these, 147 voted for no dance with a concert on
Saturday night, 46 for no dance with a concert on Saturday afternoon, and 59 favored two concerts only on Saturday.
Of those favoring a dance on the weekend, 104 marked a semi-formal combo dance as their preference, with 83 students
voting for a formal dance and 54 for an informal combo dance.

Greek Week has been set for the first week of the second semester and will run from Thursday of that
week through Wednesday of the next. This will alleviate the problems caused by Midwinters on the following weekend, according to
the council.

Former President To Speak

Dr. John R. Cunningham, president emeritus of Davidson College, will speak during chapel period this Tuesday, Nov. 26, telling of
his work in Charlotte as chairman of the Mayor's Commission on Human Relations. The mayor’s committee has been credited with
enabling Charlotte to solve its racial problems more quickly and with more success than any other city in the South.
For his work on the committee, Dr. Cunningham was awarded the silver medallion, the highest honor given by the National
Conference of Christians and Jews.

Dr. Cunningham became president of Davidson in 1941. Upon his retirement in 1957, he moved to Charlotte and assumed his
present position as director of The Presbyterian Foundation. In 1961, the college’s new fine arts center was named in his
honor. Before coming to Davidson, Dr. Cunningham had held several pastorates and been president of Louisville Presbyterian Seminary. A native
of Missouri, he received his bachelor of arts and doctor of divinity degrees from Missouri's Westminster College. Cunningham earned his
bachelor of divinity degree at Louisville Seminary. He has received honorary degrees from King College, Duke University, Wake Forest College,
the University of North Carolina, and Davidson College.

Dr. Cunningham is a former president of the Association of American Colleges and a former moderator of the General Assembly
of the Presbyterian Church U.S. He has been a delegate to the three assemblies of the World Council of Churches.
A member of Phi Beta Kappa, Dr. Cunningham is also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and other honorary fraternities.
He is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Let There Be Light...

“Improvement of the lighting system around the literary society halls is being given top priority in our program for overall
improvement of the system of outdoor lights on the campus,” states Grover Meetze, Davidson's director of the physical plant. As
a direct result of the recent assault in this area on a Davidson student, a new light has been added
to both the Phi Hall and the Eu Hall. In addition, lamps with higher wattage than those now in use
have been ordered and are to be put in use in the immediate future.

Meetze reported that more improvements in lighting are expected to be made in the literary hall area and other areas
as soon as his office completes a study of the present lighting system and determines what improvements are necessary. Concerning
this study, he said that “most of the buildings are pretty well lighted already, and we are now concentrating mostly
on lighting the roads and walks.” “This study,” he noted, “will probably be concluded in about three months, and then
the Business Office will have to act on our recommendations before any action is taken.” Meetze also pointed out that
other places with poor lighting include the areas around the laundry and around the road leading from the gym to
the Concord Road, and that these areas will have second priority in improvements. Mercury vapor lamps will probably be used
along roads and incandescent lamps on the walks.

Union Wing To Open During Thanksgiving

Students returning from the Thanksgiving holidays will find parts of the new wing of the College Union in operation with
its increased number of table tennis and billiard tables and new facilities, according to Director C. Shaw Smith. “However,” Smith
said, “the anticipated movement of the Knovel Knook and college bookstore will be delayed, probably until the start of the
second semester. Both will have to be worked into the business arrangement through the student store.” The moving of the
store to its new location, Smith hopes, will also entail an expansion of its line of merchandise, making available records,
crafts, and various art prints for the student. The vacated student store area will be used temporarily for additional dining
room and meeting space.

“All of this,” states Smith, “is just a part of the general plan of improvement of the Union facilities, especially
in the area of food service, so that Independents, freshmen, and faculty members might have the privilege of eating in
a genteel atmosphere which fraternity men now enjoy. This new space and new atmosphere,” Smith said, “will give us a
chance to serve more of the students’ needs and interests in a way that they can make better use of
their leisure time. The Union is not just a place to eat and meet, but a place where one can
put his leisure to best use. We're not a ‘pleasure palace’ but we're not saying we don’t want the goof-offs,
both from the students and the faculty, with us. However, the Union is more than just a place of relaxation,”
the Union director said.

CROSS COUNTRY TEAM TAKES FOURTH PLACE (See Page Three)

NUMBER ELEVEN

Gunman Kills Kennedy; Johnson Now President
