PAGE FOUR

Pietenpol Conducts Faculty In College Self-Evaluation

BY DAVID COFFEY

A comprehensive self-evaluation of Davidson College is being conducted by the faculty under the direction of Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, professor emeritus of physics. The Southern Association of Colleges requires that its member schools complete such a study every 10 years to maintain their accreditation. Pietenpol believes that much more can be gained from a critical study than a verification of Davidson’s accreditation. “We will discover, I hope, the areas of our school which are weakest and need improvement,” he stated. “We should also find ways to further strengthen even our strongest points.”

The study, as scheduled, will take two years. Work began this September after Dean Frontis Johnston and Dr. Pietenpol attended a briefing session in Atlanta conducted by the Southern Association of Colleges. The first phase of the study was a self-evaluation conducted by each department. Reports on these evaluations were to be turned in today. As part of the second phase, faculty committees will make detailed studies of eight divisions of the college: organization and administration, educational program, faculty, student personnel, financial resources, library, physical plant, and research. These committees will probably be appointed within the next week. After the report on the findings of the two-year study is completed, a committee of five educators from other colleges will visit the campus to evaluate the report and to make their own study.

DR. C. J. PIETENPOL

Actress Poses Question In Artist Series Drama

Has the relationship between men and women changed? Posing the question, actress Celeste Holm will explore the answers in the second Artist Series program next Wednesday night, Nov. 20, at 8:15 on the Chambers Auditorium stage. Using works by such authors as William Saroyan, Thornton Wilder, George Bernard Shaw, William Shakespeare, and even Sigmund Freud, Miss Holm will act in a musical, dramatic, and comic setting entitled “With Love and Laughter.” Against the simple background of piano, table, two chairs, lectern, and four-fold screen (to mask onstage costume changing), Miss Holm and Wesley Addy will act, sing, and talk about their central theme. Following the program, a short and informal reception will be held for the company.

Celeste Holm first appeared on Broadway in Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein’s “Oklahoma!” and later received the Academy Award for her performance in “Gentleman's Agreement.” Wesley Addy has appeared in several Shakespearean roles, including “Twelfth Night” with Helen Hayes. He joined with Miss Holm last year in the off-Broadway production of “A Month in the Country.” The program is the second presentation of the Davidson College Artist Series, and tickets may be secured for $2 by contacting Artist Series, Fine Arts Center, Davidson College. Davidson students are admitted free of charge.

Seminary Actors Perform Sunday

The Union Theological Seminary Drama Team will perform Christopher Fry's A Sleep of Prisoners at the Sunday evening vespers service at 7:30 in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. According to Howard E. Hill, director of the five-man drama team, the play centers about four men who have been imprisoned in a church during a war. Each man has a dream in which the others play a part. In these dreams, the real personalities of the men are seen. Chaplain Will Terry said that the drama team was invited to Davidson at the requests of students who had seen the team perform and were impressed by it. He pointed out that this and other drama groups have performed at religious services in recent years.

The New Bus Station and Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.
Dial TW 2-6651

Fraternity Newspapers, Invitations, Stationery, Cards, Programs, Booklets, etc.
Each Order Given Prompt Attention
Davidson Printing Company
The Davidsonian Printers
For Quality Printing

RULES:

Brown, E. E. Griffin

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Burts
Kelton
Richey
White, L.
Currie
Labban
Scott
Williams
Daggy
Lloyd
Swicord
Wilson
Driesell
Martin, J. G.
Tilley
Young
Gable
Moore, Robert
Tucker
Patterson, W. B.
Welsh

Early Decision Plan Fills Fifty Places For Next Year

BY BILL NORFLEET

More than 50 members of the class of 1968 were chosen on the early decision plan this year, according to H. Edmunds White, associate director of admissions. This represents a 30 percent increase over last year’s quota. There were 60 percent more applicants for early admissions this year than last, White said.

Perennial Plights Plague Freshmen

“After eleven o'clock, study on the freshman halls is almost impossible,” averred Brooks Sheldon at the Freshman Council meeting Tuesday night. “At the first of the year, the Phi and Eu halls were left open for studying purposes, but now they are closed. I'd like to see some rooms in Chambers left open for study areas.” Discussion of these problems will be taken up with Dean Richard C. Burts, but many other suggestions were made by the council members in an open suggestion period. David McCorkle, freshman cheerleader, proposed that the council become active in supporting freshman athletics. Other suggestions included asking for water fountains on the third floor of freshman dorms and freshman programs in the “Open End” discussions on Wednesday nights. Meeting times have now been set up for alternate Wednesdays at chapel period. By a majority vote, four unexcused absences will bring automatic dismissal from the group. Suggestions were also entertained on raising money to assist the Richardson Scholars in attending various cultural activities. Sheldon was selected to consult the YMCA to determine needs and suggestions for this program. At a special meeting held last Friday, John Loughridge was elected social chairman. In this capacity, he will serve as a member of the Union Board, and willCoordinate all freshman social activities. Loughridge is a native of Lafayette Hill, Pa. and is a pledge of Phi Delta Theta.

IN THE COLLEGE BRAND ROUND-UP

PRIZES:
1ST PRIZE: Beautiful 19" Portable Television by Admiral
2ND PRIZE: Portable Stereophonic Record Player by Admiral

WHO WINS:
Prizes will be awarded to any recognized Group or Individual submitting the largest number of empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alpine, or Paxton.

1. Contest open to qualified students only.
2. Empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alpine, or Paxton must be submitted in order to qualify.
3. Closing date, time, and location will be announced in your newspaper.
4. No entries will be accepted after the official closing time.

Get on the BRANDWAGON ... it’s lots of fun!

1318 W. Morehead in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

The famous OPEN KITCHEN
Charlotte, N. C.

On the increase in applicants, White commented, “There is the feeling now that if a man has made a definite choice for Davidson College and is reasonably well qualified, it is a service both to him and to us to get it over with.” He also noted that there were more applicants of age 17 this year than last due to the post-war baby boom. Figures for applications of the past two years show 85 applicants for early acceptance in 1961 and 79 in 1962. This year there were 133, the admissions office reported. The increase came in spite of an application deadline pushed back two weeks to Oct. 15. This was done to coordinate Davidson's deadline with that of other institutions in order to simplify the task of students and secondary school guidance counselors. Notification of acceptance was made Nov. 1. In 1961, 45 were accepted by early decision; in 1962, 36 were accepted.

Davidson's W.F. To Attend Council

Representatives from Davidson’s Westminster Fellowship will be among some 3000 students who will gather after Christmas at the 19th Ecumenical Student Conference on the Christian World Mission. The conference will be held at Ohio University in Athens, Ohio, and will last from Dec. 27 to Jan. 2. Bill Rule, president of the local WF, hopes a large group from Davidson will be able to go. “A limited number of scholarships are available,” said Rule. “I'd like to talk to anybody who foresees even a slim chance of going.”

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1963

Organ Recital Launches Sacred Music Conclave

BY BILL AITKEN

Dr. Philip Gehring, organist of the nation’s largest university chapel at Valparaiso University, opens Davidson’s 1963 Convocation of Sacred Music tonight at 8:15 with an organ recital in the College Church. This, the fourth annual convocation, is designed to “provide a common meeting ground for educators, church musicians, clergy, and laity interested in a better understanding and appraisal of the importance of Sacred Music and the divine purpose for which it is appointed.” As such, the conference will include an address by Dr. Gehring, three seminars, and a concert of modern church music on Saturday in addition to the recital tonight.

The three Saturday morning seminars, following Dr. Gehring's address in Hodson Hall on “Current Trends in Church Music,” are centered about the topic “Current Musical Trends and the Individual Church.” The seminar on choral music will be led by Davidson professors Donald B. Plott and Grier M. Williams, that of organ music by Dr. and Mrs. Richard M. Peek who are directors of music at Covenant Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, and the third on the liturgy by Rev. Thom Blair, rector, Christ Episcopal Church, and Rev. Edward T. Mickey, minister, Park Road Moravian Church, of Charlotte. These seminars will run concurrently.

Saturday afternoon at 1:45 a concert of modern church music will be given featuring the Male Chorus, the Brass Choir, and the organ. This will be concluded by the performance of Flor Peeter's “Te Deum,” in which the audience is invited to participate.

Gehring graduated from Oberlin Conservatory with an AB and MusB degrees. Following this, he studied at Syracuse University under a Danforth Grant, receiving an MMus degree. Gehring came to Davidson in 1952 as assistant professor and college organist. In 1957 he studied in France with Andre Marchal and returned in 1958 to assume his present position. He was awarded his doctorate in September of this year.

OPENS CONVOCATION — Former college organist, Philip Gehring, will give an organ recital tonight at 8:15 in the College Church. The fourth annual Sacred Music Convocation will continue through tomorrow.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: BURL RAINWATER

When Burl Rainwater (B.A., 1958) reported to Southern Bell in 1961, he coordinated the Bell System Census Project in Tennessee. Working out his own guidelines for collecting data, Burl analyzed his results to forecast household growth during the Sixties for each telephone exchange in Tennessee. Success on this assignment earned him a new one where he also had to pioneer. When told to study the possible application of teaching machines to telephone training, he and another employee programmed an entire basic electricity course to show what the new devices will do. The textbook the two men developed for the machines was later copyrighted and published. With such achievements behind him, Burl is now carrying out other interesting assignments in the Knoxville Commercial Office. Burl Rainwater, like many young men, is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES