HELD (See Page Four) VOL. LII

DRAMA TRYOUTS

YMCA Opens Fund Drive For Expanded Programs

To support its greatly expanded and revised program, the YMCA today launches its annual finance campaign among students and faculty. In order to present the student with “the problems and issues our generation must face” and “provide him with an opportunity for a sincere expression of Christian faith,” the YMCA plans to present a new and varied program for the year, explains YMCA President Joe Howell.

In its finance drive to be held this weekend and in the first part of next week, the YMCA hopes to raise $4500. Howell states, “I am confident that the students will come through when they see the quality of programs that is available to them.”

Howell released the following tentative set of speakers for the Great Issues of Our Time Forums: On Oct. 4, Dr. Geza Grosschmid, director of the African Affairs Institute at Duquesne University, will kick off the first semester series on the emerging nations in Africa. On Oct. 14, chapel speaker on “South African Predicament” will be Stewart King, journalist for the Charleston News and Courier. On Oct. 17, “Africa in World Politics” will be the subject of an evening talk by Dr. Vernon McKay, professor of African studies at the School of Advanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University. The national chairman of the Zimbabwe African Peoples Union, which is the moderate party of Southern Rhodesia, Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole, will speak on “African Nationalism Today” on Oct. 31. The topic on Nov. 4 is “Role of Religion in Emerging Africa,” presented by David W. Robinson, a Davidson graduate of 1960. He was valedictorian and a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. Robinson, who has spent the last two years in Dakar, Senegal, took graduate work at Union Theological Seminary in New York.

These forums provide the spearhead for the YMCA’s program of the year. In addition, it plans to continue previous programs and institute still others. The quality of the programs and the new activities will require an increase in the organization's budget. Freshmen will be contacted by their respective hall counselors about contributing to the drive. Upperclassmen will be approached by solicitors coming to them in their dormitory rooms and elsewhere. Both the hall counselors and the solicitors will discuss the YMCA’s program and answer any questions the students might have.

Deputations will continue to go to do work in Mooresville, to teach Sunday school, and to provide fellowship speakers. In the area of community work, there will be opportunities for students to help in coaching children’s football and basketball teams, to assist Scouting units, and to work among the Negro community. Persons interested in helping in deputation and coaching work will be notified of opportunities by notices on the Union bulletin board and in the announcement forms given out in chapel.

The YMCA also hopes to have several discussion forums utilizing the Richardson Scholars on campus. Panels on other subjects such as the race issue and sex will be conducted by students. An increase in the number of programs on “Challenges in Christian Life” is planned. To date, programs have been arranged on the challenges from psychology, the natural sciences, philosophy, and secularization in the modern church.

A pamphlet is being distributed to all students during the financial drive answering questions on the activities of the YMCA and containing a detailed budget for the coming year. As a service to individual spiritual needs, the YMCA plans to organize hall prayer meetings, special vesper services, voluntary chapels, and a devotional booklet. Second semester, the forum series will be on the “Problems of The Changing South.” Five to six speakers will headline this series.

Don't forget about the croquet match.

BY RON SNOW
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Student rioting drew the scornful eye of the Student Council at the group's first meeting this year last Monday night as the organization unanimously voted to oppose any such outbreaks in the future. The discussion of the council resulted in a new ruling which reads, “In accordance to Article 8, Section 7 of the Student Body Constitution, the Student Council is opposed to student riots and will take due action against individuals or groups of individuals involved in or instigating such riots.” Tommy Stafford made the motion that it be accepted, Joel Morrisett seconded the motion, and the amendment was passed unanimously.

John Spratt read a list of the various committees to which chairmen must be appointed with the understanding that this was to be brought up and decided in the near future. The traffic court observer for the month is Fred McGuirt. The council also discussed the subject of Firearm Room key holders. They again stressed that no pistols should be kept on campus. John Barrow, keeper of the gun room, said, “Any student who wants to keep a gun in the gun room should see me in 411 Cannon. Those boys who already have keys are asked to sign the list on the gun room door.”

On deciding whether or not to endorse the Wildcat Handbook, a suggestion was made that every council member read carefully the editorial passages and be ready to render a decision at the next meeting.

Davidson's Interfraternity Council kicks off its activities for the year with a concert by folk singer Josh White, Oct. 5 at 8 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. The 48-year-old Negro, son of a Greenville, S. C., preacher, will be making his second appearance at Davidson, having performed here two years ago. Easy-going White began recording spirituals at the age of 11 and worked his way to recognition as one of America's top folk singers. He has made appearances in Europe and North America, including performances at the White House and in the court of the Danish king. He has recorded several albums, including “Josh White - Live,” “Josh at Midnight,” and two volumes of “The Josh White Stories.” The concert will be preceded by the Davidson-VMI football game Saturday afternoon.

“We are very optimistic about getting big-name entertainers for the other weekends,” reports IFC President Haynes Kelly. “We are working on an arrangement with an agent from N.C. State through which entertainers can book Davidson, N.C. State, Wake Forest, and perhaps other schools in a block, thus sharply cutting traveling and booking expenses. Through this plan, we hope to get such entertainers as the New Christy Minstrels and Peter Nero.”

Homecoming is scheduled for the Davidson-Presbyterian game, Oct. 26. “Tentative plans call for an Artist Series concert Friday night and an IFC-sponsored concert Saturday night, omitting the formal dance that was held last year,” Kelly stated.

BY DAVID COFFEY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The International Relations Club will hold its first forum of the school year on Wednesday, Sept. 25, at 7:15 p.m. in the Green Room of the College Union, discussing the topic “Is the British Educational System Superior to That of the United States?” Participating in the program will be Davidson College's two Richardson Scholars from England, Alan Arthurs and Simon Henson. The forum will be moderated by Grier Stephenson, president of the IRC. The first part of the program will be devoted to a presentation of the topic by Arthurs and Henson. An informal discussion period will follow during which refreshments will be served.

One of the aspects of the British school system which is to be explained and discussed is the difference between the two types of schools in England. These are the grammar schools, which correspond to our state-controlled educational systems, and the public schools, which are much the same as our country’s privately operated schools. Both Arthurs and Henson have had direct experience with these two systems. Henson has attended both grammar and public schools, and Arthurs’ parents are both teachers. The two Richardson Scholars will also give their personal evaluations of the American school system and will compare it with that of their own country. Stephenson emphasized that, like all meetings of the International Relations Club, the coming forum will be open to all students and faculty members.

BY BILL FOSTER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Ever wonder how that fellow who sleeps in that bed across from you got there? For the upperclassmen, the answer is a bit easier than for the freshmen. For freshmen, the answer will inevitably lead to the office of Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories. She picks freshmen roommates. Of course, with such a large number of people to pair off, it would seem necessary to have a system that predicts compatible roommates much as the administration predicts underachievers. Mrs. Moore just shrugs her shoulders.

Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C.

Faculty Toughens Concept Of Academic Probation

BY JOHNNY CLARK

Important changes in the definition of “Academic Probation” and in the rules governing traffic violations were among several amendments to the college regulations that were adopted recently by the faculty. Beginning with the first grade report this semester, any student who fails to earn grades representing at least 12 semester hours and nine quality points will be placed on academic probation until the end of the semester. Formerly, the minimum requirement was nine semester hours and six quality points; however, according to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, a number of faculty were disturbed over the discrepancies in the requirements for academic probation and the requirements for admittance to a rising class. Formerly, a freshman, for instance, could be denied admittance to the sophomore class without having ever been placed on academic probation. That is, a student could earn 18 semester hours and 12 quality points during his freshman year and still be...kept out of the sophomore class, since 24 semester hours and 18 quality points are required for entrance into the sophomore year. Under the new rule, a student cannot be taken off academic probation during a semester. Dean Burts explained that mid-semester grades are not a true indication of the student’s work since they are usually based on only one review. Also, when a student was removed from “AP” at mid-semester, he tended to become lackadaisical and find himself in worse trouble at the end of the semester. “In other words, mid-semester is not a give-and-take situation any more,” Dean Burts said. “We can place a student on probation at mid-semester, but we cannot take him off.”

In other changes, the maximum speed limit on campus has been changed from 25 to 20 miles per hour, “with lower speeds at turns and intersections.” Parking permit holders should consult the current Wildcat Handbook concerning other changes in the traffic regulations.

Not only must a student satisfy any financial obligations to the college before graduation, but he must also satisfy any other debts or accounts that are brought to the attention of the dean of students. That is, if brought to the attention of the dean, an unpaid account at a Charlotte store could prevent a student from receiving his diploma.

To clear up some misunderstanding that has frequently occurred, the following amendment to the regulations was adopted: “No work will be accepted after the last scheduled meeting of the class before the exam period.”

Freshmen will receive tentative grades after six weeks of the fall semester, but there will be no more six-weeks freshman reports in the spring semester.

UNION WORKERS — The sewer system of the new addition to the College Union receives its share of attention as workmen lay part of the underground system. Last week Seesaw Smith, director of the Union, said he hopes to move into the new wing during the Thanksgiving holidays. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Bouscaren Gives Warning On Danger Of Communism

The conservative voice of Dr. Anthony T. Bouscaren, professor of political science at Le Moyne College, warned Davidson students at Tuesday's chapel of the grave danger of our present “pacifist” attitude toward the threat of Communism.

The following amendment was also inserted: “Any student enrolled in the College shall be required to make a proper response to a request of a faculty member or other College officer when the student is requested to come for a conference.”

The scale used by the Registrar's Office in computing grade averages for class standing, certain initiations, etc., is also printed for the first time in the Handbook.

Remarking about the present rift between Russia and Communist China, Bouscaren remarked that this dispute has been overemphasized by the press, “These men are communists, and, second, Russians and Chinese. Our enemy is not Russia or China but communism.”

“We have been in World War III since the close of World War II and Khrushchev has made it a sophisticated war that we are just now learning how to fight ourselves.” It is not, he said, necessary for Khrushchev to alter his methods for his present method is winning the war for him.

In speaking of the test-ban treaty, Bouscaren stated that we have made far too many concessions to the communist bloc already, and he cited Berlin and Laos as specific examples. This treaty must not lull Americans into thinking that the communist conflict is calming down.

He charged that our present attitude of accommodation and containment has resulted in a free world with a negative policy, offering little or no hope for victory. “We play by the rules, the Soviets cheat and at best our response has been a holding policy. It is time we began to cross the 50-yard line.”

The solution to this, he said, lies in such weapons as trade, more effective guerrilla warfare, particularly training of our allies, and more help for the Cuban exiles in their harassment of Fidel Castro. He stressed the fact that we must maintain such a nuclear deterrent that our second strike will be of greater capability than the Soviet first strike.

These aggressive policies, combined with what Bouscaren termed as the “Achilles’ heel of the communists,” the people who in their dissatisfaction are attempting mass movement from East to West, can defeat the menace of world communism. “We must make it clear that we know we can win and our leadership must teach us firmness, not weakness.”

Stafford Commands ROTC Unit

Cadet Col. Tommy Stafford will assume command on Tuesday of one of the largest ROTC Cadet Corps in the history of Davidson College. The commander will be supported by his staff which includes Cadet Lt. Col. Jim Lewis, executive officer; Cadet Maj. Lyman Dillon, S1 or personnel officer; Cadet Maj. Bob Ivey, S2 or intelligence officer; Cadet Maj. Chip Derrick, S3 or operations officer; and Cadet Maj. Eddie Earle, S4 or logistics officer.

Company commanders for the new semester will include Cadet Capts. Dick Forrester, Danenhower, Dan Adams, Butch Covington, Howard Arbuckle, and Jeff Wampler. Cadet 1st Lt. Ivan Rohrer will command the Martin Honor Guard.

Three new members have been added to the ROTC department’s cadre. Capt. Donald M. Campbell, a Davidson graduate of '57, will serve as MS II instructor. Sgt. James K. Sharpe, assistant light weapons instructor, and Spec.-5 John D. Rook, an administrative specialist, have also joined the staff.

INTUITION’S THE SYSTEM

Mrs. Moore shrugs her shoulders and laughs when asked about a system. “Oh, no, I just use intuition,” she says. She usually starts by reading each student's file and the questionnaire that he filled out on his personal living habits. The chief defect in this, she feels, “is that personality doesn’t come through on paper.” Then when she has a mental poop sheet on each student, she takes the pre-med blanks and puts them in one stack. Putting pre-meds together usually avoids the trouble of conflict of study hours since pre-meds generally have labs in the afternoon. This way, more often than not, one roommate doesn't study in the afternoon and disturb the other all night.

With the other boys she tries to match interests and general room habits. She seldom puts two athletes of better than average ability together, “especially if they compete in the same sport.” However, she states, “Teammates often pick each other as roommates in their sophomore year.”

When asked if exchange students were problems, she chuckled, “Oh no, I always have more requests for foreign students than I can fill.”

Do boys that ask to room together ever pose many problems? Sometimes yes, sometimes no, it just depends. Mrs. Moore feels that it is better not to room with a boy “who just happens to be from the same town.” She explains it this way, “The boy from home is probably already a friend. Why not make another friend with a new roommate?”

What about problem roommates? The boy who is a problem roommate usually has as his main fault thoughtlessness. “This thoughtlessness,” opines Mrs. Moore, “is the cause of most of the trouble in the dorm. Boys just must learn to respect the rights of others to study.”

In dealing with upperclassmen, what difference do fraternities make? Most of the time boys from the same fraternity prefer to room together. But Mrs. Moore’s classic example that this is not a dogmatic rule is of two boys who were together their freshman year and joined different fraternities. They stayed together for four years and each was president of his fraternity his senior year.

On advice to freshmen about dorm life, Mrs. Moore hesitated and said, “Well, it’s hard to... ah ... I guess just to be thoughtful of the rights of others.”