CURRICULUM STUDY A KEY TO PROGRESS BASEBALL, TENNIS, GOLF OPEN SEASONS (See Page Two) VOL. LI

Pridgen, Ruth, Stitt Give Opinions On Davidsonian

The following juniors are candidates for the editorship of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Voting will begin on Wednesday, March 20.

BILL PRIDGEN

Bill Pridgen, the Sports Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, is a history major from Myrtle Beach, S.C. A member of Beta
Theta Pi and a varsity wrestler, Pridgen is also a member of Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity, and Phi Eta
Sigma freshman scholastic fraternity.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, to deserve the caption, “The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College,” has a dual responsibility, in its
news reporting and its editorial policy. I do not believe that either of these responsibilities have been adequately fulfilled in
the past year. Adequate and accurate information is essential to any newspaper—to this end all reporting and editorial inquiry should
be directed. All too often, however, THE DAVIDSONIAN has published stories lacking adequate information through careless reporting. The “new objectivity”
called for this year has never been fully realized. A news story is a news story and must be completely
devoid of all editorializing.

On the editorial page full and complete knowledge of a subject is even more important. A strong editorial stand is
necessary, but it should be based as little as possible on personal bias, and as much as possible on sufficient
facts. It is impossible to state a clear-cut platform of positions that I intend to take on all issues, since
they will depend to a large extent on the context in which these issues arise, but there are several major
policies that I will carry out if elected.

First, there will be a continuing re-evaluation of Davidson as it really is—not the picture presented by the administration, but
the picture as facts warrant it. Editorials will be used in conjunction with Walt MacDonald’s recently begun series concerning the
position Davidson really occupies in relation to other schools. Tradition serves an important role in any school like Davidson. Too
often, however, a tradition-minded school is apt to resist changes even when the existing situation is out of conformity with
reality. The editorials in this series will point out where tradition is outworn and change is needed. Necessary and constructive
changes will also be recommended to bring college rules and policies in conformity with the existing situation.

By more accurate and detailed reporting, a greater emphasis on facts in both news stories and editorials and an active
editorial platform designed to promote the interests of the majority of students at Davidson, I hope to make THE DAVIDSONIAN
a more vital, integral, and better-read part of student life.

Alumni Feed Rusk, President Martin

A dinner honoring U.S. Sec-

BILL RUTH

Presently the Assistant Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Bill Ruth is a pre-medical major from Jacksonville, Fla. Ruth also serves as
Editor of all Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity publications and is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society.

THE DAVIDSONIAN presently suffers from what we might term the “apathy syndrome.” The writers don’t care what they write. The
students don’t care what the writers write. The Editor doesn’t care what the writers write. And the writers don’t care
what the Editor writes. The whole malady seems to stem from the fact that THE DAVIDSONIAN has become out of
touch with student opinion. Unfortunately, THE DAVIDSONIAN has become wrapped up in its own opinions and has lost all sense
of objectivity. News stories are opinionated and features are rarely unbiased. In an attempt to put life in the paper,
writers have even gone so far as to misquote visiting lecturers or put words in their mouths.

Well, it is easy to criticize, but just what can be done? I think the first move must be to
draw DAVIDSONIAN opinion closer to student opinion. Issues such as the Drinking Rule, fraternity parties and compulsory chapel and vespers
attendance will surely be brought before faculty committees again next year. If any progress is to be made at all
along these lines, THE DAVIDSONIAN must conscientiously express student opinion to the administration. There is a need for student unity
on these points which can only be brought about by a combined endeavor of the Student Council and THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Secondly, the editor must take a more active part in the production of the paper. He must read all of
the copy before it is printed. It is his imagination and creativity which can add interest to the paper. Thirdly,
I think that the editorials, the features and the news stories must be guided by several essential elements: logic, fairness,
truth and especially a sense of pride in putting together a newspaper which is not just four pages filled with
print; but rather, factual news reporting, objective and interesting features, full sports coverage, and most important, a relevant editorial voice.

Bultrick To Speak At Tuesday Chapel

The speaker for chapel on Tuesday will be George A. Buttrick, clergyman, author, and lecturer. Buttrick has appeared at Davidson
a number of times in the past and was Otts Lecturer in 1956. Aside from holding degrees from a number
of universities, Buttrick occupied the Plummer

STITT

David Stitt, an English major from Austin, Texas, is THE DAVIDSONIAN Managing Editor and on the editorial staff of Scripts
‘n Pranks and the Wildcat Handbook. Stitt, a Phi Delt, is also on the YMCA cabinet and a member of
Delta Phi Alpha, German fraternity.

THE DAVIDSONIAN has two principal functions. First, to report fully and accurately news pertinent to the college, and secondly, to
maintain a coherent editorial policy. The first of these functions, reporting news, represents quite a problem for a weekly newspaper
at a small liberal arts school like Davidson. The news must be reported objectively and in full, but the news
stories themselves must be readable and interesting before anyone is going to read them. The problem here is, simply, that
stories about dull events tend to be dull. One solution would be to write only about the more interesting aspects
of campus life, but unfortunately THE DAVIDSONIAN cannot come out every week with half-empty pages. This leaves one alternative, which
I think is not only possible, but necessary if this newspaper is ever to become readable, and that is to
concentrate on improving the journalistic talents of THE DAVIDSONIAN reporters. Many of the news stories that came in to the
newspaper this year would hardly have done credit to a grammar school publication, and not only were they printed, but
precious little was done to correct the situation. If elected editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, I intend to set up a
“grading” system whereby the editor and associate editor rate each news article that is printed, and then return it to
the author with written suggestions as to how the reporter can improve his writing.

As for the editorial policy of THE DAVIDSONIAN, too many superfluous editorials have been written this year merely to fill
up the left-hand side of the editorial page. Some weeks the newspaper would have been better off had it run
no editorials, while other editions could easily have carried as many as four well-written, pertinent editorials. Greater discretion in printing
editorials would also facilitate the formation of an editorial point of view, which is a vital part of any newspaper.
In summary, the incoming editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN will have to undertake the goal of improving the quality of both
news stories and editorials if THE DAVIDSONIAN is to merit the slogan “The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College.”
If elected editor, I will pursue this goal.

Union Announces Plans For Carnival

The College Union will sponsor a Spring Carnival on March

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1963

Thirty Percent Create Spratt’s Landslide Win (See Page Three) NUMBER NINETEEN

Honor Court Elections Will Resume Monday

John M. Spratt, Jr., was elected as Davidson’s 68th student body president in a sparse turnout of voters this week.
Only 40 percent of the student body voted in the presidential election. Andy Little was chosen secretary-treasurer in Tuesday’s runoff
election. Little will join Tommy Heffner and Will Jackson, who were elected first and second vice-presidents respectively, last week, to
complete the student body’s other top offices. Spratt was elected Tuesday by an overwhelming majority over his two opponents. He
polled 316 votes to 65 for Fred McGuirt and 42 for Jerry Trammell. The final election climaxed a busy day
for the presidential candidates. This included speeches in assembly on Monday and an open forum that evening. The balloting for
secretary-treasurer was slightly closer with Little taking 280 votes to 116 for Tiff Harrington, his only opponent.

Next week’s heavy election schedule will include voting for YMCA officers, publication editors, cheerleaders, Freshman Advisor, and Student Union President.

SUCCESSFUL “ADLAI” New Student Body President John Spratt is captured by the candid camera at the forum of candidates Monday
night. Spratt with 316 votes was victorious over Jerry Trammell (42) on the left and Fred McGuirt (65) in the
center. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

Thin Air Receives Views Of Presidential Candidates

BY BOB ADAMS Davidsonian Feature Writer

Speeches will be given in assembly on Monday by the YMCA presidential candidates.

Candidate Jerry Trammell’s plea for active student participation in Student Council affairs literally echoed from the walls of an empty
room during the student-candidate forum held Monday night. Only eight students sat opposite the three presidential candidates at that time
when candidates had anticipated being challenged by the more radical proponents of the “improve Davidson movement.” Although the audience swelled
to a maximum of 27 at one time during the forum, noQuestions were heard from students who have so recently
campaigned to ban the faculty oath and to ban the drinking rule. Instead, the questions concerned interests ranging from the
waning dramatics program to possible changes in cut policy for athletes playing spring sports. Before the candidates submitted to facing
questions from the floor, however, they presented their opinions of what the council could best accomplish under their prospective leadership.
Some of the ideas represented mutual feeling, especially those concerning student-faculty relationships. All candidates believed that “communications” could be improved
here, although they didn’t outline specifically their methods.

Bjoerling, Tenor, Next Series Artist

Davidson’s next Artist Series concert will feature Rolf Bjoerling, tenor. The concert will be in Chambers Auditorium on Friday, March
22 at 8:15 p.m. Rolf Bjoerling is the son of Jussi Bjoerling, recognized a decade ago as the world’s leading
tenor. Having been widely praised in Europe (“A Great Father's Great Son—He Came, Sang, and Conquered,” wrote Nyheter, of Copenhagen),
Bjoerling is presently making his first tour in the United States.

Dealing with the problem of student participation in council activities, Trammell would improve liaison by conducting student forums during chapel
period. Certainly, the attendance problem associated with the voluntary forum would cease. On the other hand, the vociferous cough clique
might easily negate the advantages of a large meeting. Another problem, the reality of organized disrespect, brought not only comments
from Danny Carrell at assembly Monday, but also a question before the candidate’s forum: “Should vespers be policed?” Trammell replied
that the council shouldn’t favor rowdyism, but, at the same time, it shouldn't have to act as a police force.
John Spratt quickly countered that as representatives in a legislature, the council members should act to enforce student body regulations.
Just how he would establish a council police was not decided. A council police force, though, might be used to
enforce the present drinking rule. Trammell again opposed the police idea. He personally did not favor any move which would
eliminate the drinking regulation because any attempt by the student body to remove drinking restrictions would lead, in Trammell’s opinion,
to more rigid enforcement of the rule. Fred McGuirt, taking a different approach in his platform, believed that more problems
would be solved than spread if fraternities were able to obtain permission to hold cocktail parties as off-campus functions.

Surprisingly enough, the candidates’ positions on the drinking rule did not dominate the forum discussion; rather, the most discussed questions
Monday evening concerned what the council might do to boost the lagging dramatics program and to better utilize the Artist
Series. In answering a question, McGuirt suggested that better scheduling could eliminate the recurring conflict of play versus basketball or
play versus lecture. Spratt took a practical view of the Artist Series by suggesting that with increased activities fees next
year, we should try to present two outstanding programs during the year, thus attracting Charlotteans and realizing profits from ticket
sales. In addition to standing behind the dramatics program and Artist Series, the candidates would delight those who would make
Davidson the “Princeton of the South.” In order to discover curriculum deficiencies, McGuirt would conduct an evaluation through questionnaires issued
by each department. Spratt would move more directly to establish an independent reading program as used by Rutgers and other
Ivy schools. Re-evaluation of freshman regulations, a brief study break before exams, and plans for affiliation with the National Student
Association were some other ideas presented by the candidates. These ideas merited the implicit approval of the few students attending
the forum. It remains to be seen how many of the ideas presented by all of the candidates together will
be used by next year’s council.

They are Joe Howell and Doug Heidt. Howell, a member of Beta Theta Pi, is presently serving on the YMCA
board. He is active in the Vagabonds. Heidt is from Clearwater, Fla., and is studying for the ministry. He is
a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. Rick Brand, Steve Davidson, and George Ochler—all rising juniors—have been nominated for vice-president
of the YMCA. Candidates for secretary are Steve Gill and Doug Woodworth; for treasurer, John Good and Hank Taylor. The
nominees for secretary and treasurer are all rising sophomores.

This year for the first time, the entire student body will elect the president of the Student Union. Nominated by
the Union board are Charlie Shapard, Staff Warren, and George Worthen. Shapard, a member of Phi Gamma Delta, is presently
serving as vice-president of the Student Union. He is a cheerleader and is majoring in social sciences. Warren, a Dana
Scholar, is a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity. He is a member of Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity and
is majoring in psychology. Worthen, a member of Pi Kappa Phi, is majoring in economics. He is the Pi Kappa
Phi representative to the IFC.

Voting for members of the Honor Court, which began on Thursday, will continue into next week. Each class selects two
representatives, who serve on the court until graduation. Rising seniors Roy Alexander, Bob Dixon, and Dave Lopp will enter a
third run-off on Monday. They survived an original field of 19 candidates. Dixon led today’s voting with 40 votes; he
was followed by Lopp with 32 and Alexander with 28. Mac Mays, Ted Pulliam, Ronnie Reese, Fred Sackett, and Bruce
Swain are the rising juniors who still remain from the 28 first-day aspirants. Sackett barely led the group today with
31 votes; following him were Reese with 30, Pulliam with 25, and Mays and Swain with 23 apiece. From a
large group of 36 rising sophomores on the first day, only four are still in the race. Jim Stokes led
the survivors with 40 votes; close behind him were Britt Snider with 31, Joe Davis with 27, and Chip Sanders
with 25. The two contests between the rising seniors and rising sophomores will definitely be decided on Monday; however, the
third contest may go into a fourth run-off on Tuesday.

Running for cheerleader are the following: rising seniors—Alton Brown, Reese Coppage, Joe Howell, Bob King, Monty Mayes, Andy Sale, and
Bruce Steigner; rising junior—Larry Compton; rising sophomores—Tiff Harrington, Jim McQueen, Skip Motley, and Robin Wright. Two new cheerleaders will be
chosen from this group. Nominations for Freshman advisor will be made by members of the rising senior class on Tuesday
after chapel. The balloting for this position will then begin on Wednesday.

ABSENTEE VOTING

The following amendment to Student Council By-Law No. 2 was adopted on March 10, 1963: Section O. Provisions for absentee
voting shall be established by the Student Council and publicized by the Elections (Continued On Page Four)

Library Acquires ‘Breeches’ Bible

The Davidson College Library has recently supplemented its rare book collection with the addition of a seventeenth-century Breeches Bible. Dr.
Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the library, and Dr. W. P. Cumming, who aids the library in its quest for
rare books, are pleased with the success of efforts made to secure the Bible for the library. Its acquisition was
made possible through the efforts of Dr. Charles B. Sanders, class of ‘22, who is director of the Sanders Diagnostic
Clinic in Houston, Texas. The Breeches Bible, also known as the Genevan Bible, appeared in its first edition in 1560.
The most significant distinction from other translations and the reason for its name are found in the third chapter of
the book of Genesis. The seventh verse in this translation is as follows: “And the eyes of them both were
opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves breeches.” In other
translations, generally, the word “aprons” is used instead of “breeches.” This translation became very popular during the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries. Because of this, 140 editions were printed between 1560 and 1644. It was thought that the copy received by
the Davidson College Library was a first edition, published in 1560; however, it has been discovered that the copy on
the campus was printed in London in 1614.

He has recently signed a contract with the Berlin Symphony Orchestra. After his United States debut in the “Messiah” a
critic said, “Rolf Bjoerling did not belie the illustrious name he bears, and delighted his hearers with a rich, clear
tenor voice of wide range and considerable power.”

Secretary of State Dean Rusk and Davidson College President D. Grier Martin was held in the National Press Club, Washington,
D. C. Tuesday. Hosting the 7 p.m. occasion was the Davidson College Alumni Association of the Washington area with the
college's Board of Visitors and Trustees as special guests. Martin spoke to the group following dinner. He was introduced by
the Secretary of State.

Professorship of Christian Morals at Harvard for the years 1955-1960 and has served as president of the Federal Council of
Churches of Christ in America. He has spoken in many foreign countries as the Joseph Cook Lecturer. Buttrick is also
the author of several books, among these, So We Believe, So We Pray, and Faith and Education. He is the
general editor of The Interpreter’s Bible.

Bjoerling’s program at Davidson will include selections of Handel, Schubert, Mozart, Grieg, and Verdi. Running from 8-11 p.m., the carnival
will include a combo playing in the cafeteria and a special presentation by Queens freshmen of their “Freshmen Follies.” Also
around the Union will be numerous games, such as penny-pitching, dart throwing, and basketball shooting. Prizes including books and record
albums will be given.
