Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO SUNDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A Tribute And A Task

Students here are often cited as being unusually hard, cynical, apathetic, sophisticated, etc., and usually such charges have a substantial
basis. But last Friday, as radios all over the campus told of the incredible assassination of the President, something began
happening as facades disappeared into dismayed shock. Friday afternoon we saw these same students wandering in the halls or sitting
on the edge of a bed, staring at the floor. Saturday morning the college church was jammed for a special
service, and in a few classes professors sat down and explained as best they could the significance of what had
happened. Then Sunday afternoon over 150 students spontaneously got up from watching television and headed to Washington to pay a
first-hand tribute to the only President our generation has ever really identified with. Many went in cars, some caught buses,
and not a few hitchhiked up Sunday night. Professors were unanimous in excusing them from reviews, and in an unprecedented
spontaneous gesture of their own, the administration called off Monday classes and even encouraged students who could to go to
Washington. No doubt some saw the cancellation of Monday’s classes as something students would take advantage of, but the student
reaction in that respect made it seem to us that a genuine tribute was intended rather than mere curiosity—by far
the majority of those who went to Washington were in class Tuesday, again hitchhiking back through a bitterly cold night.

None who went to Washington will soon forget what they saw there. We hope that the feeling of tragedy and
sadness that surrounded and lingers after the Washington burial will carry over into an awareness that more than ever before,
our generation faces a tremendous fight to overcome the hatred that exists between races and between fanatic extremists on both
left and right—to overcome the hatred that is slowly eroding the moral core of this country, and that took the
life of John F. Kennedy.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Charles Dibble
BUSINESS MANAGER Jeff Wampler
Associate Editors Tim Kimrey
Managing Editors Bill Ruth
News Editor Charles Ramberg
Cartoonists Rick von Unwerth
Assistant Editor Rick Lowery
Assignments Editor Bob Strauser
Feature Editor John Todd
Sports Editor Tom Loflin
Assistant Sports Editor Rick Lowery
Photographers David Stitt, Rick Finch, Jim Downey
Photography Editor Joe McCutchen
Sam Smith, Romir Chatterjee, Dan Adams, Johnny Wright, Rufus Hallmark, Paul van den Berg
Assistant Bus. Manager Charlie Smith
Advertising Manager Irvine Welling
Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Vietnam: Catholics, Reds Irrelevant To Its Situation

BY PAUL A. MARROTTE
Associate Professor of History

Whatever else it might be, Vietnam is a study in irrelevancy. And the sad history since 1945 of that former
French colony has only pointed up the dilemma of irrelevant domestic relationships and irrelevant solutions to serious and pressing problems.
Take, for example, the emergence of a communist state of North Vietnam. The real issue which brought communism into a
position of power in 1954 was definitely not economic difficulties but the strong emotion of native nationalism against the long-time
foreign oppression maintained by the French. Actually, communism, with a theoretical “internationalism” of its own, was irrelevant to the political
and economic problems facing the Vietnamese in their struggle against the French from 1945 to 1954. Yet, there was no
way of denying to the Vietnamese communists a decade ago the tremendous harvest of popularity accompanying their nationalistic propaganda against
the French. Today, communism has completely irrelevant answers to South Vietnam’s political and economic problems.

Or take the example of the Diem family regime in South Vietnam since 1955. Here we see a newly-independent state
(South Vietnam) being directed, and increasingly so, by a bureaucracy largely controlled by a family clan of much wealth. In
case the reader has missed the point, the bureaucratic control by a clan of wealth in a newly-independent Asian state
is entirely irrelevant to practical, successful national government. No one doubts that in times of government crises, democratic procedures are
irrelevant. But, the point which the American critics of the Diem regime made during the past six months was that
clan government which rejected policies designed to encourage popular support was doomed. Clan government almost by definition is irrelevant in
Southeast Asia today, but to alienate popular support was stupidity at its utmost. The scoundrel of Indonesia, President Sukarno, has
learned this lesson well, and the least type of protection which he needs is an armed fortress against his people
for a palace.

One can also claim that as the religion of the Diem government, Catholicism was entirely irrelevant to the religious setting
of South Vietnam. While it is true that militarized Buddhist sects seriously impaired the domestic peace and security of South
Vietnam in the mid-1950’s, government by persons favoring Catholicism over Buddhism in this predominantly Buddhist country was openly asking for
trouble. Without doubt, if President Diem had been a Buddhist he would still be in power in Saigon today.

Perhaps the most glamorous irrelevancy to appear on the world political scene in quite some time is Madame Nhu herself.
In terms of what she represented, and particularly, what she said, she was irrelevant. She had just one theme: “those
dirty communists and small-time Americans are trying to kick us out.” The relevant questions, such as, how does one fight
a successful war against communist guerillas in South Vietnam, she refused to face. This refusal reveals her lack of any
real political acumen, and must have heightened for her the shock of the news of the military coup.

Perhaps the most dangerous irrelevancy of all is the possibility that the crisis in South Vietnam will become an issue
in the American presidential campaign of 1964. If the new military government in Saigon fails to pursue the war more
successfully than Diem’s government, the result will be an important campaign issue next summer. As one reporter commented, “The military
government had better win the war, for the sake of the present Administration.” The only answer is that, if the
present military government cannot defeat the communists, they are not going to be defeated by anyone, with or without American
aid. It is that irrelevant to an American presidential campaign.

At this point, the reader might well ask, “Is it really this involved to get at the basic issues of
contemporary affairs, such as the crisis in South Vietnam?” The answer is that the basic issues stand clearly for all
to see, once you willingly cast aside the mass of irrelevancy.

Davidson, Nov. 22: The Unmasking

BOOK OF YEAR

Critics Present Views On ‘A Separate Peace’

BY WILLIAM WALKER

The agonizing process of a boy’s maturing is the theme of John Knowles’ first novel, A Separate Peace. The setting
is the microcosm of a New England prep school during World War II. The title alludes to the fact that
the protagonist, Gene Forrest, “makes his peace” with the world. For Gene and his pal Phineas, the war is far
removed—and likely a fake. A farce conjured up by “fat old men” as Phineas puts it. By using such a
microcosm, Knowles is saying that each man’s environment contains all the possibilities for good and evil. Gene hates Phineas, a
superb athlete, because Phineas has an uncanny power over him: he goads Gene into committing acts, which, while they are
not bad, are not the things Gene would do if left to himself. Gene can’t endure the thought that he’s
relinquishing his independence to Phineas, and that Phineas has indeed become a necessary part of him. When he suspects Phineas
of trying to hurt his grades, the one thing he can be unexcelled in, his situationbecomes unendurable. He hurts Phineas
in the worst way he can be hurt—physically, as an athlete—by pushing him out of a tree, crippling him for
life. Phineas still maintains an influence over Gene, however. Not until Phineas dies from a second, accidental fall does Gene
seem to find release. Unlike the hero of The Catcher in the Rye, whose problems seem insoluble, Gene concludes that
he conquered his enemy. But does this mean that he overcame whatever in him made him push Phineas out of
the tree, or does it mean that Phineas himself represented an enemy that had to be conquered before Gene could
be himself? Knowles’ answer is not clear. A Separate Peace, while it cannot match Catcher in the Rye for acridity
and force of expression, is a compact and polished narrative.

BY BILL FERRIS

It has been said that great men both open and close doors to those who follow them. When a great
artist deals with a subject it is often done so well that efforts by others on the same subject appear
sick in contrast to his. I am afraid that John Knowles fits the category of those who follow the master;
the master in this case being John Salinger. A Separate Peace is a very weak attempt to capture the prep-school
atmosphere Salinger describes so well in A Catcher in the Rye. Knowles manages to break his silent sea of words
occasionally with scenes like Brinker’s trial of Phineas. Unfortunately, these scenes lose their effect as soon as the narrator reenters
with his cold, clinical descriptions. The above scene, for instance, ends with a sentence beginning, “The excellent exterior acoustics recorded
his rushing steps... then these separate sounds collided into the general tumult of his body falling clumsily down the white
marble steps.” So what? Who gives a damn about “excellent acoustics?” The reader is concerned with the emotions of Phineas
who has just stormed out of the room. Knowles tries to describe these and other emotions and in doing so
he explains them away. His entire novel is too filled with dry descriptions. It lacks the action and emotion necessary
for the reader to associate himself with the work. The suggested suffering and despair of two youths is never made
clear to the reader. They lie buried beneath Knowles’ descriptions and lack of feeling for his subject.

BY W. H. TILLEY

A Separate Peace concerns a young man who at a New England school during the second world war struggles with
and kills his roommate and best friend. He does not kill him directly. He jars him from the limb of
a tree, breaking his leg; later the leg is broken again and the friend dies while it is being set.
We understand that the friend dies because he has been made to see that he was injured deliberately, that his
roommate has crippled him for life. The young man responsible for this injury and death, having learned from the friend
he feared and hated how to conquer fear and hate, is at last ready to take a man’s place in
the world. Events of the novel—possibly excepting the death of a young man from the operation of setting his broken
leg—are plausible enough. The characters are, if not compelling, convincing. The one weakness of the novel—or at least the salient
one—lies in the idea that someone can conquer hatred and fear by contact with someone whom he has deliberately killed.
Neither this nor any other idea in the novel is new. But familiarity does not make them more persuasive. However
smoothly the story is told, however well its incidents are put together, however its main characters convince us—we must return
to the same problem: is it possible for a young man to gain tranquillity of spirit from someone whose “harmonious
and natural unity” he has personally destroyed? It hardly seems likely. Nor can any way of looking at the novel—metaphorically,
symbolically, allegorically, or whatever—make this problem seem any less important.

TASTEE-FREEZ Wishes the Wildcat basketball team the best of luck in the coming season.

To The Wildcat Basketball Team Good Luck Rush Wilson, Ltd.

BY HALLMARK KENNEDY

Dead: Students Reflect

BY BILL FERRIS

“All ah could do was cry when they told me the news,” whispered the colored cook. I nodded and walked
out of the kitchen, understanding the twisted empty look of her face. He is gone. Her tribute to him was
a few tears wept in a dark corner. These years seem filled to bursting with the hatred and death of
such innocent people. We have seen the nightmare of riots at Ole Miss; the death of innocent children worshiping in
Birmingham; and now the death of our president. What is happening to our country? With the president’s death our Dream
of Democracy has slumped a little lower. He stood for the goals our forefathers dreamed of when they wrote “liberty
and justice for all.” He stood for the innocents slain in Mississippi and Alabama. And now he lies dead. Our
hearts are growing old and hard with so much hatred. Who among us has the softness left in his heart
to weep at this tragic death? We want to scream that the world is too much with us but lack
the strength. Where do we go from here? We cannot surrender the dream for which he died. It is time
we cease our loud words of hate and look within ourselves for a gentle love that will let us live
together in peace.

BY JOE HOWELL

Last week many Davidson students experienced the greatest tragedy in their lifetime. The president could not have been shot. He
could not have died. It just was not possible. The confusion, doubts, and despair sent pangs of fear, hate, and
insecurity running through the insides of many of us, causing us to look bewildered at each other and ask why,
why did it happen? What is our world coming to? We drifted to the church at 8 o’clock on a
gray, drizzly morning. We tried to pray, but somehow there weren’t any words. We tried to sing the hymns, but
somehow our voices would not behave. We tried to smile, and we did, but we knew the hollowness inside. We
tried to justify the act. We looked for causes, for answers. We talked until late at night. Yet somehow the
pain would not leave. We drifted to class. Certainly the professors would share our grief. Perhaps they would have some
insight, some consolation. They are men of learning, men of wisdom, Christian men of commitment. If they would not give
us answers, they would share with us our doubts, despair, and frustration. Yet, in the classroom, we experienced even more
frustration; for most professors lectured as always, as if nothing had happened. Sure, they were hurt. They must have been,
but now was not the time to talk about such a thing. The material must be studied, and the class
must proceed as usual. Yes, the class must proceed—but isn’t there some relation between history and the murder of the
president, between Christianity and the chaotic world of which we are a part, between economics and the results which such
a tragedy will have on our country? We should not let such a tragedy affect our classes we are told,
it really isn’t that bad. But, we scream hopelessly, it is that bad. There is something wrong with our society.
The shooting of the president is only a symptom of the insecurity and despair that all of us feel. If
history, English, economics, and psychology have nothing to say about our world, then why waste our time in class? If
Christianity has nothing to say then why go on pretending any longer? If men have commitment, if they feel any
relation between their subject, between Christianity and the world in which we live, now is the time to express their
commitment.

Best of luck to The Wildcats in the coming basketball season.

The Hub

Christmas Is Near Choose Your Gifts At Rush Wilson Ltd.

FOR HIM:
GLOVES
SCARVES
SHIRTS
SOCKS
SWEATERS

FOR HER:
BLOUSES
SWEATERS

MAKE YOUR SELECTION NOW AT Rush Wilson, Ltd.
