Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

To Freshmen (On Success)

For many freshmen, this first week at Davidson College may well have closely resembled a carnival. (In the case of
the Statesville Artist Series, it was a carnival.) A dance in the Union, many rush parties, and a great deal
of rush propaganda centering on social life have constituted the dominant theme of the week. Therefore it may be extremely
difficult for many freshmen to begin seriously concentrating on what every one of them came here for: namely, to acquire
an education.

Freshmen have received all manner of advice from everyone they have been in contact with here so far, and they
may be somewhat oblivious to more, but may we please put in our two cents. A sad mistake too many
students at Davidson make involves taking what they see their first few days here too seriously. Specifically, these first ten
days tend to give a freshman the impression that in order to succeed at Davidson, he must concentrate on being
a “great guy.” Such “great guys,” being generally likeable, are held up all week as the ultimate in friends a
freshman needs to associate himself with for his four college years. A “great guy” lives by the dictum that he
who studies least and yet passes, studies best. He concentrates in the fields of card playing, road going up, seeing
of females, and scoffing at studying classmates. Grades and extra-curricular participation are a weak second to personality development.

There are lots of “great guys” at Davidson. They are liked by all, are at ease in any situation, date
very good-looking (and dumb) girls, and generally have an all-around fine time. They also have lousy grade point averages, hold
no major offices here, will have difficulty getting into a good graduate school, and won’t amount to much if they
do happen to get in one. “Great guys” spend several hours at the end of each semester complaining loudly that
the grade system does not truly reflect ability. Maybe it does and maybe it does not, but try convincing the
admissions committee at a good medical school that your astounding ability just somehow was not done justice by your consistent
record of C’s at Davidson.

Our word to the freshmen is just this: check the scholastic averages and extra-curricular records of the elected leaders at
Davidson. These are boys who worked hard for three years and who are now enjoying the benefits of that work.
Please remember this the next time anyone suggests that you finesse studying for a review in order to run a
few hands of bridge: people that give other people a hard time about seriously pursuing an education are generally basically
stupid themselves and could not make grades if they did study. Therefore they don’t study, and use that as their
excuse for doing poorly. Let them laugh. You'll get your chuckles three years from now when you’re running this place.
Davidson College is a fine school scholastically, and a good education is here for anyone who cares enough to work
for it. We wish for the class of 1967 a worthwhile four years.

DTS

Reoriented Orientation

We would like to express our appreciation to Tim Kimrey for a Wildcat Handbook which constitutes a fascinating departure from
past editions. Although we can see Dean White's point about prospective freshmen who know nothing of the college perhaps taking
some of Kimrey’s comments amiss, the handbook gave this year’s frosh (already coming to Davidson when they received it) a
rare insight into college life. While the editorial observations were full of Kimrey’s dry humor, at no time were the
comments harsh or unduly critical. The handbook simply presented the freshmen with a head-start on what to actually expect when
they got here.

Another outstanding effort towards naturalizing new Davidson citizens was turned in by Bob Ivey, who organized and directed the YMCA
Freshman Camp. At this camp the 100 freshmen attending were given the opportunity to meet the leaders of virtually every
major organization on campus, as well as to hear talks by both students and professors. All concerned benefited greatly from
the experience.

DTS

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Subscribe to the 1963-64 DAVIDSONIAN. Year, $3.00

NAME
ADDRESS
CITY
—Renewal —New Subscription —Bill Me Later

Enclose Three Dollars

The Davidsonian Box 218 Davidson, N. C.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF David Stitt
BUSINESS MANAGER Rick Finch
Associate Editors Tim Kimrey
News Editor Jimmy Downey
Jeff Wanples
Photographers Joe McCutchen
Buck Lawrimore
Managing Editors Charles Dibble
Charles Ramberg
Cartoonists Dan Adams
Johnny Wright
Assistant Editor Rick von Unwerth
Walter MacDonald
Sports Editor Rick Lowery
Rufus Hallmark
Assistant Sports Editor Bob Strauser
Feature Editor Tom Loflin
Advertising Manager Irvine Welling
Assignments Editor John Todd
Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane

Contributors this week: Tom Vinson, Bill Aitken, Bob Adams, Jim Graves, Jim Beasley, Bill Logan, and Forrest Roles.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Assistant Bus. Manager Charlie Smith

The Fatted Calf

Brotherhood Glows Faintly Amid Rush Week Confusion

BY GREG GOVAN

“The quest and crowning of all good, life’s final star is brotherhood,” said Edwin Markham, fraternally. Davidson’s twelve Greek letter
groups have spent a rigorous week trying to convince the freshman class that this is not only poetry, but Truth.
And after all the Who-do-you-know's and hard sells and fast rushes, the final star will burn with relative quietude for
another year. For a week, though, it has been something of a super-nova, spreading its rays into every nook and
cranny of the freshman dorms.

Response to the Light is varied, but falls into pretty stereotyped forms; it is an old Southern tradition to flavor
everything with ritual and let what you really mean shift for itself. During Rush Week, the ritual is one of
swapping shop talk about courses and hometowns, clogging about in Weejuns and Madras trying not to get too controversial. No
matter how much anyone “knows what they want” it is a little like a CORE meeting in Jackson: everyone in
the organization looks out for toes pushed beneath their feet.

Although nobody is going to gain an insight into the problems of world disarmament through rush conversations, somehow everyone gets
a good idea of everyone else and decisions are made. The insights are ritual, such as how you dress or
how you react to remarks about the Slater Food Service, and they are expressed in a language that sounds like
English, but has a vocabulary all its own. Freshmen, on their part, are like voters trying to see the difference
between the Republicans and the Democrats: everyone is talking for the same things, but you know there must be a
difference somewhere. There is, and in the midst of riding about the fringes of the merry-go-round, they get a glimpse
of the machinery making the whole thing go.

Ritual, that wonderful way to present all time in a few moments, is the only way of selection, as it
is the only means of presentation. And so Rush is as akin to religion as to politics. Just as the
country goes on after an election and Religion survives the religions, a little of what Markham gushed over comes out
of Rush Week. Everyone starts going to classes and perhaps even to the library. And, most important, a little honesty
comes out of salesmanship. After the emotion, you think, and subsequent emotions are refined. Until the next year when the
class of '67 squints at a Rushee’s nametag to call him by his first name.

War On Academic Laziness Recalls Previous Threats

“If you are felt to be an underachiever.” With these words, Dean Burts and the Executive Committee ushered 80 students
into the ranks of Davidson’s academic underachievers late last month. The letters mailed to the underachievers marked one of the
first times college officials have taken the trouble to name those who allegedly act as a drag on the academic
community.

Dr. G. L. Abernethy, an ardent foe of academic laziness, probably was one of the first to suggest a penalty
for the underachiever. Seeing each of the academically slothful as a potential Socrates, philosophy prof Abernethy suggested that underachievers be
required to defend orally or in essay form their right to remain within college. On Feb. 2, 1961, THE DAVIDSONIAN,
unable to dream up a better solution, seconded Abernethy. Apparently the consensus was too much for the controversy. The cauldron
cooled off until next December, when Dr. W. O. Puckett took aim at the underachievers. Puckett announced that there were
a good many underachievers in Davidson.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and that some were even lurking in his classes.

WHY UNDERACHIEVE?

He named four causes that might tend to lead the student from pursuit of the intellectual to pursuit of the
animal.

1. Some just don't belong in college, suggested Puckett. Some have been pushed in by their parents. Others, he hinted,
are here to pile up social contacts.
2. Some underachievers figure they have it made. With a job waiting after school at Dad’s hamburger stand, who needs
to study?
3. Other students dreaming of happy days in co-ed grad schools rely on Davidson’s academic reputation to ease them into
Carolina in spite of low grades.
4. A final cause for mediocre performance can be failure to take a sober attitude to academic responsibilities, Puckett said.
Anything from too much beer to girl troubles can be to blame.

COOL OFF THE LAZY

Dr. Puckett suggested a one-year cooling-off period for the underachievers. He noted that the policy of Amherst was to give
academic stragglers a one-year leave of absence. Not to be outdone, THE DAVIDSONIAN suggested in a Feb. 2, 1962 editorial
that there be an academic crackdown on underachievers. The editorial proposed that each professor should give students the grades they
deserved. Faculty advisors could then counsel the underachievers, and pass the names of those who failed to shape up to
the Dean of Students for further action.

The new Dean of Students, Richard C. Burts, Jr., was interviewed to learn his opinions on underachievement. Burts agreed that
a more professional and personal approach to student difficulties might well be a big step toward alleviating Davidson's underachievement problem.
The result was 80 form letters mailed out in late August.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Simpson Spotlights Richardson

“How can the man in the street help prevent the blunders (in foreign policy) by which we have aided our
enemies to turn against us in large areas of the world—areas where our influence was paramount and admiration for us
high, fifteen short years ago?”

Answering this disturbing question, William J. Lederer, in his shocking, hard-hitting A Nation of Sheep, cites “an overwhelming national ignorance
of the facts about the rest of the world” as the chief cause of the blunders. Lederer recommends a foreign-students-in-America
program as one notable solution.

We Davidson gentlemen often seem to float in a blissful cloud of wine, women, and Wee-juns, with but fleeting concern
about the state of affairs outside the limits of Converse, Carolina, and Conformity. Yet this year we have at our
disposal Richardson Scholars from twelve different foreign lands—students who have been pitifully left out and overlooked in past years and
who probably will be again this year—unless our national pride and enlightened self-interest gets a little shove.

And there is a chance. A committee composed of representatives from all campus organizations has been formed in an attempt
to stimulate and co-ordinate the activities of the Richardson Scholars with the student body. There will be forums such as
the one held last spring, more talks on experiences unique to these men, a foreign-travel advisory group, a newspaper series,
and perhaps even snow-skiing instructions by Norwegian Gunner Skagestad. The Richardson Scholars will be introduced in assembly on Monday, September
23; an information sheet will be passed out; these men will rotate around Fraternity Court one evening meal a week.
In short, there is ample opportunity to get to know our guests; and the opportunity is one that must be
taken while it knocks.

Paul Simpson

By Wright

Authors Offer Insights On Frosh Challenges

BY RICK von UNWERT

The four-year Davidson experience seems invariably to imply, somewhere in its complexity, a moral crisis for the individual. If not
a crisis, a crossroads, and usually a turning point. Some arrive as freshmen with a spoon-fed faith which promptly dissolves
under serious scrutiny. At Davidson, blind faith is a dead horse. During the course of intelligent study in philosophy and
religion, many change horses; others forsake the horse and wander on foot through the byroads of agnosticism, existentialism, atheism... or
perhaps a religious nihilism.

For many, the doubts mellow and stand aside for consideration “later.” Their owners return to a stale and generally inadequate
womb. But for most, it’s Thomas Wolfe’s “you can’t go home again.” The reasons are numerous and often vague. Sometimes
friends take the place of the old God, and a full life in college removes the need for spiritual ballast.
Skepticism is popular and it’s easy to be flippant. Everyone is, and it’s relaxing. Religious themes are easily overworked and
their substance often turns mealy in the mouths of authors, lecturers, and free-lance stumpers.

SEE YOUR FRIENDLY LIBRARIAN

There are two books in the College library, one a very recent and the other a current best seller, by
Morris L. West. They are hard-hitting novels and the best in current fiction. The Devil's Advocate and Shoes of the
Fisherman are both wholly modern and frankly secular in approach. Each presents a fascinating plot and a bevy of thoroughly
credible characters. They are stories about men, about a cosmopolitan Rome, and about honest and earthy people.

Between the two of them no phase of modern life is ignored, from frustrated homosexuality to the sublime meditations of
a twentieth-century pope. Emotions are analyzed, ideas are dissected, characters are confronted with reality both within and without the dogma
of the Roman Catholic Church. The author intended no spiritual balm. With perception and universality rivalling Dostoyevsky, West describes the
desperate struggle his characters encounter in reconciling themselves with the cosmos, and he writes in the hard journalistic style of
current fiction.

NO PANACEA PLEDGED

These books will not resolve the moral conflict of any Ivan Karamazov, any Holden Caulfield, or any modern Hamlet. They
offer no pat answers, promise no rewards for sanctimonious virtue, provide no ground rules for fulfillment. They only bring into
focus the problem of belief and the fascinating questions of the mind in this decade of confusion. The books are
powerful, lively, challenging, disturbing... a strange combination of profundity and street-level excitement. They cannot be digested by the reader without
a sympathetic involvement in the making of a pope, in the making of a man, and in the making of
a drama as human as the doubts that are common fare for the student in a small southern college for
men.

Class Of ‘67: Tops SAT's, Dips On Student Leaders

The Class of ’67 is smaller than the last Freshman Class, but by merely enrolling it has nudged the average
freshman College Board scores a little closer to 800 on both the math and verbal sections. The class numbers 261,
six less than last year. Mean class score for the College Board math test was 640, an 11 point rise
over last year. On the verbal test, the mean score was 591, a six-point jump.

As graduating seniors, 86 per cent of the class ranked in the top 20 per cent of their class. The
class contains 27 per cent more states than any in Davidson’s past. Freshmen represent 29 states, the District of Columbia
and two foreign countries. Exactly the same percentage as last year are sons of alumni: 13 per cent. Of the
970 who completed applications, 65 per cent of the 400 accepted.

The Class of ’67 represents high marks in athletics, publications, and leadership. The Class of '67 is now carefully removing
a total of 614 letters from high school letter jackets. Letters were won by 155 freshmen. Five won ten letters
each. The number of high school newspaper editors plummeted from last year’s 21 down to 12. The number of yearbook
editors dropped from 35 last year to 19. The Class of '67 has more class presidents than last year’s class.
Fifty-four freshmen won that honor, compared with 41 last year. Student body president posts were held by 29 freshmen; 38
of last year’s freshmen had held that job.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten,
double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with
the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 6 p.m.
Wednesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 218, Davidson, N. C.

PEANUTS ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY-FOUR TO NOTHING! HOW CAN WE LOSE WHEN WE'RE SO SINCERE?!
