PAGE FOUR

REAL GONE — Weejuns and overalls are the attire for Johnnie (Alex Bernhardt) on the left. More suitably attired for their role as Southern Mississippi Negroes in Bill Ferris’ play “Gone” are Alec Morgan and Jay Rogers who play the roles of Tough Poppa and Ben. Billy (Win Minter) soberly watches as Poppa and Ben struggle with man’s greatest invention. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1963

Membership In NSA To Produce Benefits

BY TOM LOFLIN
Davidsonian Feature Editor

With the period of orientation and planning finished, Davidson's affiliation with the National Student Association will begin to bear fruits this semester, according to John Spratt, the NSA Coordinator. In a DAVIDSONIAN interview, Spratt and Student Body President Danny Carrell listed the present accomplishments of the NSA on campus and also projected some of the planned programs in the future.

The three positive steps that have already been taken are a table of NSA information placed in the Union; the UN Model students attended this week; and Davidson's affiliation with Educational Travel Association, a subdivision of NSA. “The information table that has been set up in the Union already contains many different materials which our association with the NSA enables us to receive,” Spratt noted. More material will be added as it comes in. In this way, the Student Council hopes to familiarize Davidson students with the many issues which the NSA considers and votes on in its annual congress. The issues are national and international in scope. In addition, there are many campus issues, such as academic freedom, that Davidson students can discuss and vote on.

Both Carrell and Spratt stated that there will be a definite program or forum on a campus issue this semester. “Right now, we are waiting for the outcome of the trustee meeting which will be held later this month,” Carrell said. “We understand that the trustees will vote on the question of whether or not to abolish the faculty oath. If they decide to keep it, we might have a very interesting program to discuss the pros and cons of it.” Spratt mentioned a debate on the question of academic freedom as a possible choice. The NSA sponsors such things as letter-writing campaigns to Congress on various issues. It had one in the James Meredith-Mississippi case to urge all violence to stop. Carrell said that Davidson might join such an NSA move “if we feel that the issue involved is of enough interest to the student body.”

Spratt said that if a field representative of the NSA could be obtained sometime this spring, there would be a debate on some issue of national importance which especially interests Davidson students. The House on Un-American Activities Committee was mentioned as a possible choice.

Spratt concluded the interview by stating, “I don’t know if we can make the NSA a dynamic part of student life or not. It is a real problem sometimes to communicate with this student body.” He went on to emphasize that the Student Council does not intend for the NSA to become another organization on campus. “We are over-organized here now, if anything,” he said. “All we want to do is to work with existing organizations on campus, helping them by giving them NSA material and perhaps getting speakers through the NSA.”

Spratt said that Davidson would be represented this spring at the NSA regional conference and again this summer at the national congress, if the Student Council votes to retain membership by granting the dues for the coming year. The Council will decide on who the representative and the alternate will be.

HUNGARIAN REBELS — Kadar (Geoffrey Luckeck) on the left stares worriedly into space while Andor (Joe Howell) grimly prepares to fight. Bill Trotter's play “November Requiem” is a Societies Plan Ahead For Spring Semester

Davidson’s literary societies are laying plans for the spring semester. Close at hand is participation in the Hollins College Literary Festival, which will take place on Saturday, March 2 and whose speakers will be William Styron, Ned Whittemore, Howard Nemerov, and William Meredith. Any student from Davidson is eligible to attend and should contact Walt MacDonald, president of Eu, if interested; those hoping to have poems judged must supply MacDonald with a copy of their poems immediately.

For their campus activities, the societies hope to provide new ink in the pot with the initiation of new members. Phi and Eu each will bid 30 to 40 freshmen and upperclassmen on Feb. 18, with initiation the following Monday. Eumenean and Philanthropic are also attempting, in conjunction with Sigma Upsilon creative writing honorary fraternity, to obtain for a speech either Randall Jarrell—the versatile, nationally-respected poet whose 1962 book of essays, A Sad Heart at the Supermarket, critics vigorously applauded—or Richard McKenna—the former Navy enlisted man whose first novel, The Sand Pebbles, is the Harper Prize Novel of 1963 and is currently number three on the best-seller list.

Faculty Meeting (Continued From Page One)

Instead of having full professors take it before a commencement audience, it would be administered upon hiring. Thus, in effect, every faculty member hired, no matter what his rank, would have to subscribe to the oath. Another anonymous member of thefaculty said that proponents of this measure felt that too many of the faculty are either associate or assistant professors and are therefore untouched by the oath in its present form. Only about one-third of the faculty hold the rank of full professor at the present time. The fourth proposal that should have some support from the more liberal members on the faculty calls for doing away with the oath completely. Finally, the questionnaire left room for anyone to select other alternatives that were not listed. Martin called the vote “a survey of opinion among members of the faculty.” He said that a committee of three men were chosen to evaluate the results of the poll, and these results would be kept secret from even the other faculty members until after he presents them to the trustees. It was learned that the faculty felt that the president could present the outcome of the vote to the trustees more “objectively” than could a committee from the faculty.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.C.

...tells the story of these and the other Freedom Fighters of the ill-fated Hungarian Revolution. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

(Continued From Page One) remnant shall return.” And he broke for cover. Sizing up the situation, Red secured her goodies, put kind words on the Greeks, and gambolled off to complete the set. Coming upon her grandmother’s digs, she knocked once and the eager voice within bade her enter postehaste. And there in the bed, swaddled warmly in a nightshirt, was Grandma. “Hello, Grams,” said Red, with a tinge of disappointment in her little voice. It seems that the Wolf passed out in transition and missed his best line completely.

David Dakin '62: In Accident

David Dakin, Davidson Class of 1962, died in an accident Feb 2 while working on a canal near Houma, La. Funeral services were held Feb. 5 in Houston, Texas, where he lived with his parents Mr. and Mrs. Paul Dakin at 5309 Bayou Glen. While a student at Davidson, Dakin was an active member of Beta Theta Pi. Lettering three years on the soccer team, he was a member of the D Club. In addition, he was a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon (Chemistry honorary). The accident occurred when Dakin fell from a piledriver which he was operating for his father's Houston Contracting Company.

The Now Bus Ticket We Fea said Red, — Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M. might find to their interest. The NSA stockpile of materials in the Union already contains many publications stressing viewpoints of student organizations around the world. The Student Council could find only three students who were willing to attend the Model General Assembly, which was held at Chapel Hill this week. The quota originally hoped for was five. Schools from seven southern states plus the Air Force Academy sent representatives to the assembly. Davidson represented Portugal at the meeting. The Educational Travel Association is a regular travel agency which features many tours throughout the world at a reduced rate to students. Dudley Salley, chairman of the YMCA Committee on National and International Affairs, coordinates the “Y” program with the NSA and the faculty Committee on International Study. Any student desiring to travel or study in Europe during the coming summer or next year can contact Salley for information and aid in planning his trip. Both Carrell and Spratt admitted that future plans of NSA this spring are rather nebulous at the present time. Carrell said that an assembly program would be presented, probably on March 4, to stress the legislative activity of the NSA last summer at their annual congress. Spratt said that no referendums on issues would be held as are on some campuses. Randolph-Macon Woman's College, for instance, holds student votes on certain key issues to stimulate campus political interest and to instruct their NSA representatives how to vote at the congress. He noted that the Student Council would not instruct our representatives to the congress how to vote.

RENT NEW CARS AND SAVE UP Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II and Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Rent a car the BUDGET Way, less per mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you need. Free Hotel and Airport Pickup and Delivery Service. 376-0213 301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte

try to present student opinions will be at that time. the wind ensemble will accompany.

ASHTON B. BURKE U. OF KENTUCKY ROGER P. BLACKER N.Y.U. JOHN N. BIERER THE CITADEL

Buy America’s hottest new sports convertible! IMPORTANT! If you hold any of the 10 winning numbers, claim your Pontiac Tempest LeMans Convertible in accordance with the rules on the reverse of your license plate. 1. 8981859 2. C002912 3. B638354 4. C426638 5. B291597 6. A304475 7. C518660 8. B350692 9. B151360 10. B203340

CONSOLATION PRIZE NUMBERS! All claims for Tempests and Consolation Prizes must be sent via registered mail, postmarked by February 23, 1963 and received by the judges no later than February 25, 1963. If you hold a Consolation Prize number, you win a 4-speed Portable Hi-Fi Stereo Set, “The Waltz” by RCA Victor. Or, you may still win a Tempest! (See official claiming rules on reverse of your license plate, and observe claiming dates given above.)

GRAND PRIX Sweepstakes for colleges only More than 50 times the chance to win than if open to the general public. 35 Tempests to go! Get set for the next lap... 15 more Tempests and 20 more Consolation Prizes! It’s never been easier to win... NO essays, no jingles, no slogans. Just pick up an entry blank where you buy your cigarettes. Enter now... enter often. Any entry received by March 1st can win one of 35 Tempests still to go! Of course, entries you've already submitted are still in the running!

EXCLUSIVE FOR THE GIRLS! If you win a Tempest you may choose instead a thrilling expense-paid 2-week Holiday in Europe—for two! Plus $500 in cash!

Did you win in Lap 2? 1. A670436 2. C608361 3. A070773 4. A7825849 5. A554015 6. C111668 7. C162385 8. B415769 9. C624148 10. B8018030 11. B869865 12. C203797 13. A039949 14. C599394 15. B234707

service will be sent to the Board of World Missions to support student work overseas. The Davidson College YMCA sponsors the Universal Day of Prayer service each year in conjunction with the World Student Christian Federation. Traditionally the third Sunday in February is set aside as a Day of Prayer for students. The tradition, which was begun in 1895, is observed by university, graduate, and seminary students, and by many local churches throughout the United States and around the world. The senior class has a free vespers cut this week.

LUCY LEE BASSETT EMORY U.