UNDERACHIEVERS: ALUMNI MEDITATE (See Page Three)

VOL. LII

Oh ye Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1963

Student Council Endorses 1963 Wildcat Handbook

BY BILL AITKEN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“The prospective college student is usually presented only the rosy side of collegiate life in college publications,” stated freshman John Leet at Monday’s Student Council meeting. “Therefore,” Leet continued, “although I personally feel that the handbook helped me to adjust to college, I think that its presentation would have discouraged me had I received it before acceptance.”

After some discussion by the members of the council and those students who attended the open meeting, the council decided upon two actions which it would take in regard to the Wildcat Handbook. The first action was in the form of a letter to Editor Tim Kimrey and his staff commending them for a job well done. The second action was the following resolution unanimously adopted:

“The Student Council wishes to endorse the Wildcat Handbook for 1963-64 and commend Editor Kimrey and staff for their outstanding work. The Student Council also advocates the continuation of a publication similar in format, content, and overall approach for future years.”

The Student Council adopted a proposed budget of $910 for the current school year. This budget is submitted to the student body financial committee for action and proposed adoption.

Philanthropic Society Plans Improvements

“Philanthropic Literary Society has long been on the ‘dead list’ at Davidson; this year we are changing that.” So opens the letter sent by Phi to its members this week. “The letter has caused a lot of comment around campus,” echoed Phi President Charles Dibble. “We’ve had a big response and none of it has been bad.” As to getting Phi off the dead wood list, Dibble retorted, “You can count on that!” Supporting Dibble are Bill Rule, vice-president; Jim Graves, secretary; Everett Huggins, treasurer; Tim Kimrey and Dan Broadhead as first and second critics respectively; and Jim Stringfield, parliamentarian.

The letter tackled the big problem which has plagued the society — that of purpose. The attack will be centered around “the conception of ideas and the communication of ideas and feelings.” To stimulate creative thought away from “our own Piedmont world,” many programs will be on topics of controversy outside Davidson. This will be accomplished by discussion, book reviews and informed speakers.

“Not only will Phi be concerned with the conception of ideas, but also the group will seek to develop methods of communicating ideas.” Phi's place, according to the letter, is the development of communication in the areas of writing and debate.

Phi's twice monthly meetings have been changed to accommodate its purpose. “The format to be followed will include (1) a fifteen-minute book review by one of the members, (2) a thirty-minute, four-man debate of the cross-examination type on a serious, pre-arranged and researched topic, and (3) fifteen minutes of criticism and discussion on what has preceded.”

John Spratt, Student Council president, appointed the following committee chairmen and members. To the Magazine Advisory Board, Spratt appointed Joel Morrisett and Walt MacDonald. This board works in connection with the Scrips 'n Pranks publication. The editor of the humor magazine, Hank Ackerman, has already begun work on the first of four issues for this year.

John Barrow is to continue in charge of the gun room. Fred McGuirt was named to the Academic Scheduling Committee and Bruce Swain will serve on the Non-academic Scheduling Committee. Three men were asked to serve on the Student Body Finance Committee—MacDonald, Hill Wellford and Andy Little, as secretary-treasurer of the Student Council.

‘CATS STORM CITADEL TOMORROW (See Page Four)

NUMBER THREE

African Expert Initiates Great Issues Program

Charlie Marshall was appointed chairman of the Student Council Committee on Civil Defense with John Barrow and Arnie Snider serving as members. These men will work in conjunction with Dr. Sam Maloney and the Physics Department. Dave Hardeman will be NSA coordinator and Will Jackson heads the committee on elections system revision. MacDonald is in charge of special projects.

Five men from the student body were selected to serve on three committees. The council chose Pat Fisher and Rick Smyre as representatives to the athletic committee, David Pfohl and Doug Heldt as members of the artist series committee and Joe McCutchen to serve on the religious life committee. Tom Stafford will coordinate all committees.

College Civil Defense Plans Underway Says Committee

BY JOHN BARNHARDT
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Piedmont North Carolina has not been designated as a major target area in the event of atomic attack. However, with Charlotte only 20 miles away, Davidson must be prepared for what remote chance of attack does exist. Any atomic assault in the vicinity of the campus should find the college in a state of preparation.

Dr. S. D. Maloney, deputy director of Civil Defense for the town of Davidson, assisted by his staff of both students and faculty members feel the program is well underway. Evidence of their work may be observed in the form of the Civil Defense emblems which dot the exteriors and interiors of many of the college buildings.

Of course, the first thought that comes to mind with the mere mention of the words “atomic assault” is shelter. Here again, the college is in a state of readiness. The shelter assignments have already been made and will be posted within the near future. Students living in Belk, Little and Watts will find refuge on the basement (ROTC) corridor of Belk; those living in East, Cannon, Richardson and Duke will report to the locker area of Johnston Gymnasium. Each shelter will be equipped with a 14-day supply of food and water. This preparation is being handled by Mrs. Rethal Moore. Because medical and sanitary supplies will be at a minimum, students are requested to bring any personal medication with them—along with their toilet articles.

Any battery-operated radios will, without doubt, be of cardinal importance. Operators may tune to WBT or, in the case of television, to WBTV in order to obtain instructions. Medical supervision in the shelter areas will be under the direction of Dr. J. B. Woods, while Dr. John Hopkins will be in charge of communications.

One of the greatest dangers in any mass emergency is that of an all-out rush for the telephones. For this reason, and because the phone lines must be kept open, residents of the Davidson area are requested not to attempt to place any calls. Should the unlikely happen—atomic attack—the signal will be one long (five minute) blast by the campus or town siren. Students should immediately return to their dormitories to get any needed articles, then go to their respective shelters. They should take with them any recreational equipment, as the period of confinement might last for two weeks.

STILL THE DARK CONTINENT — But Great Issues Chairman Walter MacDonald hopes to raise the blinds that cut off the light

Union Slates Festivities After Game Tomorrow

BY CLIFF KIRKPATRICK
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The College Union Board has scheduled the first of its “open houses" following the football game with The Citadel tomorrow. On Homecoming Weekend the Union has planned a formal dance for 10 p.m. till 1 a.m. on Oct. 25.

The open house will be held immediately following the game, from 4-8 p.m. Music will be furnished by the Fabulous Five Combo, and refreshments will be served. Warren, Union president, has announced that open houses will be held after every home football game.

On Oct. 5, the date of the VMI game, a buffet supper will be held in the Morrison Room of the Union immediately following the open house. It will be open to all students, with or without dates. The supper will be concluded in time for the concert by Josh White.

The following weekend a concert and combo party will be sponsored jointly by Queens and Davidson, and it is to be held at Queens. The concert will feature folk singers Brown and Dana, who made quite an impression on students at N.C. State it was reported recently. The concert will begin at 7:30 p.m. followed by the combo party in the gym at 9. Since the girls will receive “late permis-

IFC SIGNS JOSH

The Interfraternity Council announced Monday night at their first meeting of the yearHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

That Josh White has definitely been contracted and will be at Davidson on Oct. 5. White, popular singer of folk songs and ballads, will appear in concert that evening. It was also decided that all pledges will sit en masse and with their respective pledge trainers at The Citadel football game tomorrow. Other discussion included plans for forthcoming weekends and discussion of individual fraternity functions.

POV from Africa. The first of the series of programs on “Emerging Africa” is scheduled for Thursday.

Y Primary Sponsor Of Educational Series

Geza Grosschmid, director of the Institute of African Affairs at Pittsburgh’s Duquesne University, will deliver the opening lectures of Davidson College’s first Great Issues Program this week on the general topic, “Emerging Africa.” Two lectures will be given on Thursday, Oct. 3, in Chambers Auditorium. During the regular 10:20 assembly period, Grosschmid will speak on the topic, “Africa’s Colonial Heritage.” His second talk will be at 8:15 p.m. concerning the role Africa plays in world economics.

In an assembly two days before the arrival of Grosschmid, Walter MacDonald, chairman of the committee which laid the plans for the Great Issues Program, will introduce the series to the student body. Last spring, Joe Howell, after his election as president of the YMCA, named MacDonald to head a committee to investigate the possibility of establishing a program at Davidson to help inform the students of the great issues confronting our age. MacDonald spent part of his spring vacation visiting Dartmouth College and studying its Great Issues Program. The Dartmouth program is a weekly seminar course which is required of all seniors as a prerequisite for graduation.

It was decided that the Davidson Great Issues Program would consist of lectures, informal discussions, and films, all of which would center around a central theme for each semester. MacDonald’s committee, now expanded to 16 members, has chosen “Emerging Africa” as the emphasis for the first semester and “The Changing South” for the second. The committee has been divided into three groups to handle publicity, research, and administration of the program. Dr. Phillip B. Secor, assistant professor of political science, is serving as advisor. The purpose of the program is to help the students at Davidson become more acutely aware of the problems facing our nation and the world today. Howell says, “This new program is a terrific opportunity for Davidson College and the Davidson man to grow and become aware of the world. It should greatly enrich education outside the classroom.”

Hungarian Will Speak On Africa

The first lecturer of the Great Issues Program, Dr. Geza Grosschmid, was born in Hungary in 1918. He immigrated to the United States in 1947 and became a naturalized citizen in 1950. Dr. Grosschmid received his doctorate degree from the Royal Hungarian Pazmany Peter University of Budapest in 1943. He has been with Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, Penn., since 1948, becoming a full professor in 1955. Since 1958 he has served as director of Duquesne’s Institute of African Affairs. In addition, he has contributed to numerous publications including the Encyclopaedia Britannica. He is associate and literary editor of The Duquesne Review. Active in community affairs, Dr. Grosschmid is vice-president of the Pittsburgh Citizens’ Committee on Hungarian Aid and a member of the Pittsburgh CARE committee. He is also a member of the Catholic Association for International Peace. Dr. Grosschmid has been elected to membership in many honorary economics societies concerned with African studies. He is listed in Who’s Who in the East, American Men of Science, and the American Catholic Who’s Who. A recipient of numerous fellowships and grants-in-aid, Dr. Grosschmid received a Ford Foundation grant in 1958 which enabled him to attend the Faculty Research Seminar in Political Economy, conducted at Johns Hopkins University.

Grosschmid’s lectures will be followed by an assembly on Oct. 14 on the subject of South Africa’s racial policy of apartheid. The speaker will be Stewart King, a former reporter for the Johannesburg, South Africa, Star. Other speakers and their topics are Dr. Vernon McKay of Johns Hopkins University who will lecture on the topic “Africa in World Politics;” the Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole, national chairman of the Zimbabwe African Peoples Union of Southern Rhodesia, who will discuss African nationalism; and David Newson of the U.S. State Department, who will speak on the United States’ responsibility to the emerging nations. Prior to each lecture, every student will receive a three or four-page research paper giving the most important background information for each talk. This material is intended to help the students ask intelligent questions during the discussion periods.

(Continued On Back Page)

Twenty-One Married Men

Perhaps one of the greatest incentives to efficient scheduling is knowing that every minute counts. If this sounds unbelievable, just ask any of Davidson’s 21 married students. Despite the obvious fact that married life and supporting a family is a time-consuming task, there are married men in almost every organization on campus. Among them are such family men as Fred McGuirt, Haynes Kelly, and Dick Fulp. McGuirt is president of the Senior Class and a member of both Omicron Delta Kappa and Sigma Chi. Kelly is president of the Interfraternity Council and a Kappa Alpha Order. Fulp is a member of the football team, the D Club, and Phi Gamma Delta. Although many of the family men prefer to remain independent, 14 of them do belong to social fraternities. Sigma Chi seems to have the monopoly on the young married set at present with five married brothers. In fact, one of the wives, Mrs. Jan Hart, is the sweetheart of the fraternity.

Stay In Campus Activities

Quarterback Benny Coxton is the only head of a family of more than one child, but many of the others have one, with the trend toward young girls. The oldest marriage is the Fulp’s; Dick and Barbara have been married for over four years, whereas Bill Joyner was married only last Saturday. When asked about problems engendered by married life in a society of bachelors, all seemed to feel that the advantages far outweighed the disadvantages. The one major complaint was the inadequacy of housing, especially that afforded by the college. “I think it’s pretty poor that the college won’t provide enough housing for the married students,” said one wife. “Some of them end up having to commute to classes from as far away as Charlotte.” All in all, the married students and their wives seem to have made the transition to life at Davidson with the same speed and ease that are characteristic of all their activities, a wonderful example of adaptation and intelligence.