VAGABONDS SPARKLE IN “EARNEST” EFFORT (See Page Two)

VOL. LI

GLOBETROTTERS — President and Mrs. D. Grier Martin are back on campus after two months in Europe. The trip included
contacts with many past and present Davidsonians. (Staff Photo by Chatterjee)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1963

NUMBER EIGHT

Phi Beta Kappa Elects Six Seniors To Chapter

Six Davidson seniors have been elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa by Davidson’s Gamma chapter of North Carolina of
the national honorary fraternity. Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest of the American Greek letter societies. Election to the society
is generally considered the highest recognition of scholastic attainment.

Martins Found Home-Ties On Their European Trip
BY TOM LOFLIN

The sound of water falling from a fountain and the sight of a snowy-haired, milk-coated Negro tending the lawn behind
the big, white house set a Southern scene for an European conversation. Mrs. D. G. Martin, wife of the president,
settled back in a chair on her patio to enjoy the October Indian summer. But her mind was across the
ocean in a Europe that she and her husband had visited for the past two months.

The one thing that constantly amazed and delighted the Martins on their trip which lasted from Aug. 8-Oct. 8, was
the fact that many different people who might call themselves Davidsonians kept appearing in the four countries they visited.

“The first old friend we met was Nick Cooper, a Richardson Scholar here in ’60-61,” Mrs. Martin said. “Nick was
very glad to see us; he is what you might call a real Americanphile. Both he and his family are
very interested in what is going on in the United States.” She said that Cooper is studying law at Cambridge
and that he is the captain of the rackets team there. “You probably shouldn't write this,” she smiled, “but while
we were in Bristol, Nick and his family took us to the oldest pub in England.”

Dr. Martin walked up and grinned, “You’re giving him the whole picture of our trip, all right.”

When the Martins moved on to Oxford, they found that center of learning not unpopular with Davidson people. Professor Charles
Lloyd was there studying for the summer. Geoff Luckock, a Richardson Scholar last year, and Richard Henson, here this year,
also paid them a call.

“Perhaps the most interesting person we met in Oxford was Herman Bell of the Class of '53,” Mrs. Martin commented.
“He is a linguist and is doing work in Africa in the area that will be flooded when the Aswan
Dam is completed. He and his wife live in a fire truck that they have fixed up as a house
trailer. Since its tank holds 500 gallons of water, they can stay in the desert for a long time.”

In London Stephen Wood appeared. This graduate of the Class of '61 is currently studying in England. “He commented,” Mrs.
Martin said in a pleased tone, “that Harrison Wellford is as fine a representative of Davidson as one could ask.”
The ‘62 graduate, brother of Senior Hill Wellford, is a Marshal Scholar at Cambridge. He was married this summer.

Stephen Harding, an English visitor several years ago, and Jonathan Lewis, a guest last year, visited the Martins before they
left England.

Traveling on to France, the couple stopped in Aix to visit Dr. A. V. Goldiere, retired professor of French, who
is teaching Americans there this year. Bob Chumbley, famous Vagabond, also turned up in Aix where he is taking his
junior year abroad. Mrs. Martin laughed, “I was sure he would be sporting a beard, but he only had a
mustache. Chumbley said, ‘I’m just getting started on my beard and have decided to grow it in sections.’”

Senior lovers of military science will be happy to learn that Lt. Col. William Adams, ex-PMS at Davidson, is contentedly
serving a tour of duty with the Intelligence at Orleans. The Martins were lucky enough to be on time to
attend the wedding of his daughter, Meri.

Undoubtedly the most pleasant experience shared by the couple was their visit with their son Mike and his French wife,
who are living in a tiny village in Brittany. The younger Martin went to Aix on a Rotary Fellowship and
met his wife there. He is now writing fiction.

The Martins even spent a week on the famous Riviera at Hyeres. “But it was a spot on the coast
where not many tourists come,” Mrs. Martin said. “The water there was as clear as Silver Springs in Fla.; it
was certainly the most beautiful place we saw while abroad.”

The pair attended a special meeting in Zurich, Switzerland, at which a sizable number of foreign alumni gathered. Pierre Wyss-Chodat,
one of the earliest of the Richardson Scholars, helped arrange the gathering. For a long time he was secretary for
the Foreign Students Association of Davidson Alumni, an organization which even put out its own paper for a while. It
no longer is a formal group.

In Bochum-Linden, Ger., the Martins met a very special foreign acquaintance. Dagmar Tauber, who two years ago lived in the
Martin’s home while an exchange student in this country, arranged a special party for her American “parents.” A good many
Germans were there who had been on the Richardson program in its earlier years.

The Martins do not remember any special unusual experiences on their trip, but they do recall the many warm friendships
they renewed and the new ones they made.

New Baptist Group Hears Minter’s Talk

The newly-formed Baptist Student Union of Davidson heard Dr. W. P. Minter, professor of political science, speak on “The Negro
in the Baptist Church” last Wednesday in the College Union. Following the lecture, Dr. Minter led a discussion of his
topic, the first in a series of lectures for the semester. The over-all theme is “The Negro in the Baptist
Church.”

Newsome To Talk On Great Issues

David Newsome, deputy director of the Office of North African Affairs of the Department of State in Washington, D. C.,
will be the fifth speaker in the Great Issues Program, “Emerging Africa.” Newsome will speak Thursday, Nov. 7, on the
topic, “The United States: Responsibility to the Emerging Nations,” at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium in an open lecture.

Newsome has been a foreign service officer since 1947, having served in Karachi, Oslo, Baghdad and London. In May, 1950,
he accompanied the Prime Minister of Pakistan on his state visit to the United States. In April, 1958, he received
the Department of State Meritorious Service Award.

Beginning his career in 1938 as a newspaper reporter, Newsome served overseas in the U.S. Navy from 1942 to 1946.
Released from service, Newsome worked for a year as a publisher. Born in California in January 1918, Newsome received an
AB degree from the University of California in 1938 and his MS degree from Columbia University in 1940. From 1940
to 1941 he was a Pulitzer traveling scholar. In 1960 Newsome attended the National War College. He is currently living
in Somerset, Md.

There will be two more meetings before Christmas for the group which meets every second and fourth Wednesday of the
month. During two earlier organizational meetings the group elected Jay Rogers president. Other officers are Hugh Allen, vice-president, and John
Barrow, secretary-treasurer. All are juniors.

According to Vice-President Allen, the Rev. Quinton M. Perreault, western area director of the North Carolina BSU, was instrumental in
setting up the local association. Perreault provided the Baptists, at their earlier sessions, with information on proper procedure for organization,
as well as assistance in obtaining future speakers.

Having worked on an earlier unsuccessful attempt to establish a Baptist student fellowship at the college, Maj. and Mrs. David
Hampton will be the group’s sponsors. The Hamptons initiated the formation of the BSU by sending out questionnaires to determine
the amount of interest in such an organization among Davidson’s some 100 Baptist students.

The purpose of the local BSU, Allen said, is “not to compete with other religious organizations. We, as Baptists, can
concentrate our efforts and discuss our Baptist heritage and problems facing college students today.” He added that the group is
not limited to Baptists but open to all students.

Tentatively, the officers plan to attend the BSU State Convention in Greensboro this weekend. They are also making plans to
attend an officers’ convention to be held next semester in Raleigh.

At least a B-plus average is required for membership, and no more than eight percent of the junior class and
12 percent of the senior class may be elected. Davidson's chapter, established in 1923, has elected six seniors this year:

Mark S. Dunn, Jr., a math major from New Bern, is a member of Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity,
and Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity. He has also been on the board of directors of Lingle Manor.

Harry F. Fry, is a pre-medical student from Cincinnati, Ohio. He belongs to Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-medical fraternity. He is
a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and Phi Eta Sigma, national freshman honor society. Fry is also co-captain
of the varsity swimming team.team. @ Thomas F. Loflin, III, a Spanish major, is from Hendersonville and holds a Dana
Scholarship. He is feature editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and is a past winner of the D. G. Martin journalism award.

@ William S. Logan, is a pre-medical student from Lakeland, Fla. He is a member of Alpha Tau Omega social
fraternity and holds the J. Edward Johnston Scholarship. He is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-medical fraternity, Gamma Sigma
Epsilon honorary chemistry fraternity, and Le Cercle Francais.

Martin In Chapel
President D. G. Martin will be in chapel Monday morning to answer questions from the student body. Those desiring to
ask questions of Martin are requested to write them out and leave with John Spratt, 101 Belk. This especially applies
to those who have lengthy questions and/or those who desire particularly complete answers. No questions will be accepted after Saturday
morning.

Founded in 1923, chose the new members in their fall election, Oct. 25. The following men will be initiated into
the society on Friday, Dec. 6, in Eumenean Hall:

@ Robert David Miller, a pre-medical student from Chapel Hill, is a member of Sigma Nu social fraternity. He belongs
to Philanthropic Literary Society and is a member of the Wind Ensemble, Le Cercle Francais, and Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-medical
fraternity.

@ John M. Spratt, Jr., history honors student. Spratt, of York, S.C., is president of the student body and president
of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity, Scabbard and Blade military
society, and Le Cercle Francais.

Faculty Meeting Crucial To Liberal AP Proposals
BY TOM LOFLIN
More than a few Davidson students will watch with interest the action the Faculty will take at its meeting next
Tuesday on the question of academic probation. Every indication is that when the meeting is over, Davidson will have a
more liberal probation policy. The Executive Committee has already voted on recommendations it wishes to make to the Faculty concerning
academic probation. President D. G. Martin said after the committee meeting that “our proposals to the Faculty will be much
more liberal than the current policy.”

At the committee meeting, requests by Dr. J. G. Martin, of the Dept. of Chemistry;

Davidsonian Ranks All-American Class
THE DAVIDSONIAN has been awarded an All-American rating in its classification for the fourth semester in a row by the
Associated Collegiate Press. The award, highest possible under the ACP’s rating system, was for the second semester issues of the
paper last year. THE DAVIDSONIAN scored 3,500 of 3,700 possible points in its classification as a weekly paper in a
four-year college with an enrollment between 751 and 1256 students. Last year, the paper received a rating of 3,620 points.
Editorial page features and makeup, sports coverage, writing, and display, inside news pages, headlines, and photography were among the parts
receiving the excellent rating. The front page was rated superior and assigned a special score. Normally an excellent rating is
the highest possible. Commenting on the publication, the judges said, “An exceptionally sound, workmanlike example of topflight college journalism.”

Prof. Martin suggested in a prepared paper that the college’s academic probation be liberalized in certain ways. After the meeting,
Pres. Martin said, “The committee did not accept all of Prof. Martin's propositions for liberalizing academic probation, but we did
approach his ideas in making our proposals to give to the Faculty.”

An examination of Prof. Martin's compromise program to liberalize academic probation, and a consideration of the known steps that the
committee took will provide some clue to what the Student Body can expect from the Faculty in regard to changes
in current rules. Prof. Martin intended to map out a workable program that could be used as a compromise between
the old academic probation rules and the new regulations put into effect this semester. He desires three basic and important
changes in the current program:

1. Place students who do not earn the equivalent of nine hours and nine quality points or who make two
F's on academic probation. The requirements now are that the equivalent of 12 hours and nine points must be earned
at each grading period to stay off probation. A student may fail two courses and yet not be placed on
probation, if he meets the 12-9 standard.

2. Permit any student who brings his grades up to the requirement to be freed from probation at any grading
period. At present a student is restricted for an entire semester once he is on probation. Thus, under the present
system, a man may be placed on AP at the end of any grading period, but can only be removed
at the end of a semester.

3. Permit students on probation to participate in off-campus school-sponsored activities as long as such a student does not miss
any classes. At present all such participation is out.

Prof. Martin also proposes that any student who does not meet academic standards because one or more of his course
grades are not turned in (which has happened in the past) be considered individually and, if his other grades are
acceptable, not be placed on probation. As it is now, the administration could place a student who is only carrying
12 hours on probation if one professor did not turn in a grade for some reason beyond the student’s control.
This would be true even though such a student were making an A average in other courses. Such a tactic
would obviously punish severely a man who could do nothing to alter the situation.

The action the committee took to permit freshman football players to play in off-campus games while on academic probation is
significant. It indicates one committee proposal that will be made in the faculty meeting is to allow students to participate
off-campus even while on probation.

Prof. Martin propounded three outstanding reasons as to why approval by the Faculty of the above proposal would be both
just and valuable to the college:

“The penalty of prohibiting participation in organized events punishes the student who contributes in a way that the non-participant is
not punished.

“Ironically, neither the member nor the nonmember of an extracurricular organization is prevented from attending off-campus events, or from engaging
in any other pastime detrimental to his class performance.

“Considering (a) the investment in many of these and other activities, (b) the alumni and student pride and interest, (c)
the publicity value, and (d) the value to other members when the group is capable of excellence; the increased requirements
of the current academic probation rules are detrimental to the college.”

BY PAUL SIMPSON
Students See Honor Court A Latter-Day Gestapo
More severe than the Inquisition and more heinous than the Gestapo. Like the FBI, they’re everywhere; and like Scotland Yard,
they always get their man: thus ominous and omnipotent looms the Honor Court of Davidson in the eyes of her
students.

Hunched furtively at their desks, the roommates tremble; over each hulks a burly henchman; a third holds the door; a
fourth and fifth rifle drawers, feel suits, pry into trunks, lift mattresses, smell Listerine and English Leather—the Honor Court is
on the move.

Asked last week about the above unreal picture, vividly painted on the Davidson campus by the rumor that the Honor
Court planned to search all cars and rooms for alcohol before Homecoming, Chairman Howard Arbuckle was amazed. This rumor, and
many were expecting an Honor Court tap on the door any night, was but another example of the gross misconception
of Davidson men of Honor and the Honor Court.

Arbuckle emphasized that court members are not policemen sent out on periodic patrols—even if they did have the authority to
search rooms and cars. They are not out to “get” anyone; there never has been nor will be “a big
crack-down”; the court does not feel it is slack in its duties if students are not occasionally kicked out of
school.

Only after suspicion has arisen does the court attempt to discover possible violators of the Honor Code or the Student
Body Regulations.

Another popular myth Arbuckle blasted was that “you don’t have a chance in our Honor Court trials—everyone is convicted.” He
pointed out that the names of the innocent are never revealed; and trial procedure is as fair as any court
of law.

The prevalent picture of the Davidson man going through four years with one eye cocked and one ear open for
the sight or sound of an Honor Court agent calls for a new look at the Honor System. As Arbuckle
wrote in an introduction to the 1963-64 Honor Court: “The Honor System at Davidson is the acceptance of an obligation
on behalf of each student towards every other student and towards himself to constantly conduct himself honestly and honorably in
all that he does. The Honor System is Davidson's method of creating an environment in which honesty is practiced and
respected.”

As the judicial branch of the student government, the (Continued On Page Four)

probation rules are detrimental to the college.”

(Continued On Page Four)

THROUGH TOMORROW—The Vagabonds will continue their production of Oscar Wilde's comedy, “The Importance of Being Earnest.” A review of the
play is on page two of this issue. (Staff Photo by Chatterjee)
