PAGE FOUR

YEA TEAM fight... fight... fight... give 'em... the ax, the ax, the ax... hold that line fight... State Sponsors Session
fight... of Summer Internship fight... YEA! recently TEAM whew pause things 90 better Coke TRADE-MARK Bottled under the authority of
The Coca-Cola Company by a Coca-Cola Bottling Co.

RELATING HIS RED CHINA red carpet tour, journalist Serge Lentz speaks to interested students during an informal discussion after chapel
Monday. He told of posing as a textile buyer and traveling throughout the country with his equipment—films, cameras, and notebooks.
(Staff Photo by Smith)

Tryouts For Drama Set For Next Week

Tryouts for the drama department’s second major production, The Visit, will be held Dec. 9-10 at 7:30 in the Fine
Arts Center. The play, by Friedrich Dürrenmatt, was voted the New York Drama Critics’ Circle Award for the Best Foreign
Play of 1958. The production has a large cast—25 men and 6 women. Tryouts are open to the community and
all persons interested are urged to attend. No experience is necessary. Although tryouts are being held before Christmas, rehearsals will
not begin until early January. With exams and mid-semester holidays, several weeks will be lost in January and, since the
production is scheduled for mid-February, it was decided that by casting now, serious work on the play could begin immediately
upon returning from the holidays. The play, a serious one with touches of bitter humor, is a chilling indictment of
a democratic society in which values have become more and more materialistic. An incredibly wealthy woman returns to her hometown
which is in a state of complete bankruptcy. She offers the inhabitants a gift of a billion marks on one
condition; she wants the life of a villager who years ago caused her to be expelled from the town in
disgrace. The townspeople are shocked and horrified, but the remainder of the play is a study of the corruption of
the souls of everyone in the town. Professor Rupert Barber, Jr. of the Speech and Drama Department will direct the
play.

Scholarships Open For Far East Study

The East-West Center graduate scholarships—grants available in Asian and Pacific area and language studies—are being offered again to American students.
President Lyndon B. Johnson sponsored legislation establishing the Center, a national educational institution located on the University of Hawaii campus
and affiliated with other institutions.

Two Colleges Plan Rights Conference

Bryn Mawr and Haverford Colleges will sponsor on Feb. 7-9 a conference entitled the Second American Revolution, on the civil
rights movement in the United States. The conference will include a series of addresses, panel discussions, and seminars on specific
aspects of the Negro’s problems. The topics to be discussed include class structure, housing, prejudice, voting, violence, and the psychology
of the Negro.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1963

STUDENT STORE SERVICE SCENE

Becky Caldwell helps a browsing student (Staff Photo by Smith)

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Barber
Bryan
Miss Cumming
Maloney
Martin, D.G.
Minter
Elaine Richey Soloist With Wind Ensemble

Elaine Richey, 1958 Winner of the Walter W. Naumburg Foundation Award, will be the guest soloist with the Davidson College
Wind Ensemble when it performs at 8:15 p.m. tonight in Hodson Hall in an open concert. On Monday the third
Afternoon Chamber Music Concert will be held at 4:45 p.m. in the sanctuary of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Mrs.
Richey will be heard with the Wind Ensemble in a special transcription for violin and wind instruments of Beethoven's “Romance
No. 2 in F,” made by Dr. Grier M. Williams, conductor of the Davidson ensemble. Selections to be performed include
Saint-Saëns’ “Marche Militaire Francaise,” the Bach “Prelude and Fugue in G minor,” selections from “My Fair Lady,” Morton Gould’s “Cowboy
Rhapsody” and “Comedians’ Gallop” by Dmitri Kabalevsky. Special guest artist in the Monday afternoon concert will be Mrs. Paul D.
Lowder, mezzo-soprano, of Davidson. She will sing the “Pastoral Christmas Cantata” by Alessandro Scarlatti. Other Christmas music to be performed
will include selections by Johann Pachelbel and Rohlig. Participants in the program will include professors J. S. Winkler, baritone horn;
Grier Williams, trumpet; and Wilmer H. Welsh, organ. Bill Aitken, student organist, will serve as accompanist.

ROTC Instructor Reenlists In Army

Sergeant First Class John A. Cothran, heavy weapons instructor in the Davidson ROTC department of military science, has reenlisted in
the Army to begin his 17th year of military service and his second year at Davidson. SFC Cothran enlisted in
1947 from his home state of Mississippi. He served in Korea during the conflict there and has held various posts
in Germany, Japan, and in the United States. Included in his list of decorations and awards...are the Korean Presidential Citation,
U.N. Ribbon, U.N. Campaigns with five bronze clasps, and the National Service Defense Medal. Dr. Minter said that there are
excellent opportunities for jobs in public administration and government service agencies. However, "the program is designed not only to train
in the mechanical aspects of government. Through discussion groups, attention is given to the problems of government and other related
problems. There are a number of regularly scheduled seminars and luncheons which are led by prominent state officials and political
scientists. The program will accept 20 outstanding college students to work in approximately 15 agencies of the state government. There
are no qualifications upon the major of the applicants. In order to qualify, the student must be a junior or
senior and be either a resident of North Carolina or duly enrolled in a North Carolina educational institution. The interns
will be paid $75.00 a week for the duration of their services. Their expenses will include $6.00 a week for
a dorm room at North Carolina State in Raleigh. All applications must be completed and sent to the governor’s office
in Raleigh by Dec. 15. The student will be notified of his acceptance or rejection by the last of February.
Applications may be gotten from Dean Frontis Johnston or Dr. Minter.

Applications for the 100 scholarships offered for 1964 must be submitted as soon as possible. Deadline is Jan. 1. These
expense-paid scholarships, each valued at about $8,500, include round-trip travel costs and a small personal allowance. American students will engage
in Asian or Pacific Islands’ studies offered by the University of Hawaii, long noted for these fields. Students will augment
their studies during the most unique part of the Center grant—a three- to six-month field study in an Asian or
Pacific area. Grantees from the U.S. will join students from 27 Asian and Pacific countries in cultural and social activities,
as well as in regular classroom studies. Other Center institutes provide interchanges for technical participants and for advanced senior scholars-in-residence.
Full information and application forms may be obtained by writing the Director of Selection, Institute for Student Interchange, East-West Center,
c/o University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii (96822).

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA. The famous OPEN KITCHEN, 1318 W. Morehead, Charlotte,
N.C.

The board also approved sophomore Bob Bryan as Business Manager of the Handbook and received financial reports from the other
three publications. Discussed at length was the matter of the handbook's financial books, which are presently contained in a spiral
scratchpad. The board decided that in the future, Handbook transactions would go through the bursar’s office to ensure that some
semblance of acceptable records would be kept. The Publications Board is composed of the editors and business managers of the
four campus publications, the college Business Manager, and a representative from the faculty.

Accepted invitations to appear are Malcolm X, chief spokesman for the Black Muslim movement; Herbert Hill, labor secretary of the
NAACP; James Kirkpatrick, author of the Case for Segregation; James Farmer, national director of the Congress on Racial Equality; James
Forman, executive secretary of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee; and John Hope Franklin, author of From Slavery to Freedom and
The Militant South. The registration fee for the conference is $20 per delegate, but part of the expenses, says student
body president John Spratt, will be paid by the Student Council for any students desiring to attend. Spratt said that
all those interested in attending should contact him before Dec. 14.

From the time he joined Southern Bell in Nashville, Clem Patton (B.S.E.E., 1958) has continually impressed his management with his
engineering ability. Given the job of designing telephone cable connections between the central office and new residential subdivisions, Clem found
ways to design connections that expertly met the engineering problem, and yet, kept costs to a minimum. Because of such
creative engineering talent, Clem was selected by his company to attend the Telephone Operating Engineers Training Course at Bell Labs.
On completion of the course, Clem will return to Southern Bell and the increased responsibilities that await him there. Clem
Patton, like many young engineers, is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are few places
where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.

Le Tetreau de Paris, a touring French theatrical company, will present Jean Anouilh’s L’Alouette Friday night, March 6, 1964, in
Chambers Auditorium. Le Tetreau de Paris began its tour of American campuses six years ago. This year it will present
95 performances on approximately 70 campuses, beginning in New York City, going westward to Seattle, Wash., and completing its tour
in Miami, Fla. In the past, Women’s College in Greensboro has been the only campus in the surrounding area where
they have appeared. L’Alouette by Anouilh, a drama dealing with Joan of Arc, will be presented in French here and
has enjoyed successful runs in both New York and London in English versions by both Lillian Hellman and Christopher Frye.
In conjunction with the performance, it is planned to have an exhibit of French culture on campus and also to
present a program between a buffet supper and the play. The committee which President D. Grier Martin has appointed to
make complete plans for the program consists of chairman C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union; Robert Sailstad, director
of public relations; Taylor Blackwell, director of publicity; and Rupert T. Barber, director of drama.

STUDENT TOUR LEADERS WANTED TO EUROPE SUMMER 1966. Men or Women Faculty Members or Graduate Students. APPLY PROMPTLY. ADAMS STUDENT
TOURS, Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 1609, Los Angeles, CA.
