TED HALL HITS KIMREY (See Page Two) VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1963 SOCCER KEEPS
ROLLING (See Page Three) NUMBER NINE

NOVEMBER 18 Student Council Sets Date For NSA Referendum Vote

BY BILL HUFFORD

The Student Council, planning its strategy for victory, fixed the National Student Association referendum for Monday, Nov. 18, after chapel
period. John Spratt, Student Council president, explained that in the NSA constitution, a referendum is called if 10 per cent
of the student body signs a petition to terminate its affiliation with NSA. “This,” said Spratt, “Pat Freeny has done.”

Fred McGuirt, Senior Class president, moved that Freeny be invited to attend the NSA convention with Dave Hardeman on the
weekend of Nov. 16. This, the council suggested, might mellow Freeny and also get him off campus the weekend before
the election.

Spratt reported on the Student-Faculty Conference Committee which met to discuss the request that Catholic and Jewish students should be
allowed to worship outside Davidson (no such churches are within the town limits) and receive credit against that night’s vespers
service. The faculty committee postponed the request until a later date. Spratt gave the faculty’s decision as twofold: (1) that
the system is only in the trial phase and (2) that attending church outside Davidson would create further problems on
the already strained honor system.

In response to Rick Lowery’s sports column in last week's DAVIDSONIAN, Spratt appointed Charlie Marshall to look into the situation
of opening the gym to students at night. Marshall will report back to the council next week.

The final discussion of the meeting centered around Vice President Will Jackson’s suggestion of revising the elections procedures. No vote
was taken; however, Jackson proposed two basic changes: (1) that no one be allowed to run for both student government
(including both the student council and student body) and Honor Court offices, and (2) that the elections be shortened from
3½ weeks to 1½ weeks. There was a wide difference of opinion on the first suggestion which would prohibit a
person from running for more than one office. It was pointed out that if the candidate loses, he would miss
his chance for an office until the next year. But these changes would also allow more students to run for
student government offices, creating more interest in the do-or-die situation. “The only objection,” said Jackson in summation, “is that some
good men might not be elected.” But he pointed out, “These rules were put in when Davidson had less than
500 students. Now we have 1,000 students and many qualified people for each office.”

NSA Duelists Avoid Bold Election Claims

BY HARRY CARR

Leaders of both factions debating Davidson's membership in NSA expressed uncertainty this week about the outcome of the Nov. 18
referendum. Pat Freeny, who spoke against the NSA at an assembly Oct. 28, foresaw a close vote with a possible
slim margin in favor of withdrawal. John Spratt said, “The next two weeks will decide the election.”

In setting the election two weeks off, Student Council President Spratt emphasized that the council was not trying to let
the issue fade but rather to provide an opportunity for students to become familiar with the facts. He revealed that
the council will issue mimeographed statements which list benefits of membership for Davidson. Davidson has been a member of the
association since the spring of 1961. Previously, the college had belonged to the group but had withdrawn.

“The main reason I am against the NSA,” Freeny stated, “is that it has done nothing at Davidson.” He also
said, “The NSA has overstepped its boundaries by taking a stand on political issues. This activity is contradictory to its
constitution. This doesn’t mean that there is anything wrong with having a student political organization,” Freeny added, “but as a
sounding board of student opinion, the NSA is ineffective.” Freeny went on to say that he would favor the organization
if it did not try to be both a group for student political opinion and an association for student governments.
Also, Freeny assailed the NSA on the Davidson campus because, “No effort has been made to acquaint the student body
with the policies of the NSA.”

On the other side of the issue, Spratt said, “The NSA had contributed many little things which have added up
to a significant effect on the Student Council, as well as other groups on campus.” He pointed out that the
Student Council channeled some of its material from the NSA to various clubs at the college for their use in
obtaining speakers, organizing discussions and attending conferences. Spratt also mentioned as benefits of the NSA the SGIS library, which provides
student government leaders with articles, papers and results of polls pertaining to student affairs, and the automatic membership in the
Educational Travel Inc. The travel service organizes foreign tours and lodging for students at reduced rates, as well as charter
flights. Other advantages, according to the council president, include representation by Davidson in such conferences as the UN Model General
Assembly and the State Student Legislature, the services of Polback, a clearing house for information concerning political speakers and current
affairs and an annual literary contest which publishes the winning paper in the “Saturday Review.” Another strong point of the
NSA that Spratt cited was the sharing of information and ideas that otherwise would not be available to a small
college such as Davidson. “Perhaps these ideas won't change the face of Davidson,” he continued, “but they will add significantly
to the college.” As an example of these ideas he pointed to Davidson’s representative for The Moderator magazine.

In answer to the charge that the NSA has overstepped its bounds by entering into the political realm, Spratt said,
“I think politics and current affairs should be related to the college environment and made useful for student affairs. For
the time being it is the best organization for discussion and interchange of ideas. Certainly it can’t be helped by
pulling out.”

Refuting the statement that the student body had not been made acquainted with the policies of the NSA, Spratt pointed
out that last year the Student Council had put in the Union a display of all material concerning the NSA.
Later, the information was among the magazines at the Union. He added that he had published a notice of the
availability of the materials.

Authors Johnston, Abernethy Publish

Two Davidson professors have recently secured publishing rights for books they have just completed. Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, professor of
history and dean of the faculty, has finished editing Volume One of the Papers of Zebulon Baird Vance. The volume
covers letters to and from Vance, who was Civil War governor of North Carolina, during the years 1843-1862. The book
can be ordered from the Division of Publications, State Department of Archives and History, Raleigh.

Dr. George Abernethy, professor of philosophy, has secured publication rights from Holt, Rinehart, and Co., for his new book, Wisdom
from the World’s Religions, containing 365 one-page selections for daily reading. The book is being held for publication at the
present time, pending a copyright, and should appear in finished form next year.

Gung-Ho Types To Play War In Own Special Forces Unit

BY GREG GOVAN

Approval was granted by the college for a special-forces-type unit composed of volunteer MS II’s and IV’s. Similar units are
already operating with the Army's blessing at VMI, Eastern Kentucky, and Eastern Carolina. The Davidson group grew out of a
staff study by an MS IV last year and interest expressed to Special Forces veteran Lt. Col. Paul R. Wheaton,
PMS. A third factor was last year’s night problem conducted by Capt. Charles C. Partridge for the tactical benefit of
his MS II’s. Response dictated expansion; so when Tarby Bryant asked about the group this September, he was given a
green light to organize a provisional unit.

Yale Professor To Open 1963-64 Reynolds Series

BY GEORGE FAIN

Dr. Henry Margenau, professor of physics and natural philosophy at Yale University, will initiate the 1963-64 series of Reynolds Lecturers
on Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 11-12. Dr. Margenau is an authority on the philosophical foundations of physics and has made
important contributions to physics in his work on spectroscopy and nuclear physics and the discharge theory. Dr. Margenau will speak
at Davidson on Monday night at 8:15, in Tuesday chapel, and again on Tuesday night. His talk Tuesday night at
8:15 in the Morrison Room of the College Union will be sponsored by the YMCA. It is the first of
a series of forums on “Challenges to the Christian Faith.” In his lecture Dr. Margenau will delve into the issues
of modern science which conflict with the Christian views of the world. His talk will be followed by an informal
discussion with students and faculty.

SAVING FOR A RAINY DAY — or for saving lives on a radioactive rainy day. Campus workmen stock up the
fallout shelter in Johnston Gymnasium with Civil Defense supplies. (Photo by McCutchen)Special forces group. The purpose of the group is
to familiarize its members with insurgency and counter-insurgency operations, or to acquaint them with the guerrilla-teaching role of the Special
Forces, units of which are now employed in Viet Nam. Capt. Partridge, cadre officer in charge, emphasized that the group
was completely extra-curricular for those interested in learning about such operations and not a springboard to Special Forces enlistment. Secondary
purposes of the group will be to teach soldier skills, teach the leadership of small tactical units, and prepare juniors
for summer camp at Ft. Bragg. The Davidson unit will not prime MS I’s for outstanding performance at Bragg but
will let them know what does go on there. It was also hoped that the unit would make the distinction
between Special Forces and Ranger operations a little clearer. Members will learn only enough of survival and commando skills to
be able to teach them, for the unit-purpose is to organize partisan forces into counter-insurgency groups, not carry on commando
or guerrilla warfare. To accomplish this mission, the unit will be broken down into an administrative, or B, unit of
the MS IV's and the tactical, or A, units of MS III's. Seniors will themselves learn and teach the juniors,
supervise the tactical exercises conducted one weekend a month, and serve as aggressors. The III's will work in teams to
“destroy” power lines, conduct ambushes, and use the facilities at Lake Norman for amphibious operations. Class instruction will be conducted
an hour a week. Most field work will be at night. In accordance with the aims of the group, all
personnel will primarily train in training others. They will be assisted in this by the Special Forces reserve unit in
Charlotte. Lt. Col. Wheaton also will lend his experience and hopes to get some help from the Ft. Bragg units.
Cadets will wear fatigues and, it is hoped, the Special Forces green beret. All MS IV’s and MS III's who
can pass the combat proficiency test are eligible and may participate one or both semesters. As in any college extra-curricular,
the stress is on interest and enjoyment. The test of pleasure will come one week from tomorrow with problems in
night compass, communications, and small arms. As the Reader’s Digest might say, “Our Special Forces Are Ready!”

VOLUNTEER FORCE — Tarby Bryant, organizer of a special forces type unit here, is dressed in the group's garb, including
green beret. Bryant received approval of the extra-curricular ROTC outfit organized to familiarize its members with insurgency and counter-insurgency operations.
(Staff Photo by Chatterjee)

The Davidson ROTC Dept. at last has a bona fide extra-curricular activity for Second lecturer of the series will be
Ralph McGill, publisher of the Atlanta Constitution, who will speak Jan. 8-9, 1964. Will Herberg, the author of Protestant-Catholic-Jew, will
be on campus April 20-21, 1964, as the third lecturer of the Reynolds series. A native of Germany, Dr. Margenau
received his education at Teachers College in Herford, Germany, and Midland College. He received his master's degree from the University
of Nebraska in 1927 and his PhD from Yale in 1929. He was naturalized in 1930 and has received numerous
honorary degrees since then, including an LLD from Dalhousie University. Dr. Margenau has taught at various schools throughout the United
States, including the University of Nebraska and the University of California. He has been a visiting professor at the University
of Heidelberg and was the Fulbright lecturer to the University of Tokyo in 1960. He has written numerous books, notably
The Nature of Reality and Open Vistas, and is an active contributor to scientific journals. In addition, he has served
on the editorial board of the Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer and has served as a consultant to
General Electric, Lockheed, and the Atomic Energy Commission. Each lecturer will speak in the evening of his first day here
and will deliver an address to the student body the following day. Some of the speakers may visit classes during
their stay on campus. Regarding plans for another lecturer, Dean Frontis Johnston said, “We hope to have a fourth lecturer
in the spring, but it is not yet settled.” This fourth lecturer would probably be from economics.

Supports Open Forum

Controversial Talks Win Professors’ OK

Academic probation regulations were liberalized as the result of faculty action Tuesday. Also passed was a resolution calling for the
opening of the college doors to controversial speakers. Four items in regard to academic probation were considered:

First, the requirement adopted this fall for 12 hours and nine quality points to stave off probation will remain in
effect. Secondly, a student on probation may participate in off-campus school-sponsored activities as long as he does not miss any
classes. However, men on probation thus going off campus will be held responsible for the next day's recitations (e.g., reviews)
no matter how late they return; this is not the case with those. Thirdly, a student may go off or
on probation at any grading period; i.e., mid- or end-semester. And fourthly, the six-weeks freshman grade reports will be completely
unofficial. President D. G. Martin and Dean Frontis Johnston gave assurance that any student failing to meet the standard because
one or more of his course grades are not turned in for some reason beyond his control will be given
special consideration. Not brought up at Tuesday's meeting were the two recommendations mentioned in last week's DAVIDSONIAN: to give cuts
to students on probation and to have failing students meet weekly with professors where they were having difficulty. Perhaps most
significant of all, however, was the decision to form a committee to study academic performance in general at Davidson, including
underachievement, promotional requirements, and academic probation. The liberalizing measures were not passed unanimously, according to reports: some professors felt that
perhaps the college was giving too much and should not encourage athletics for students who are not passing. Another comment
was made that it is possible admissions requirements to Davidson have out-classed academic requirements in Davidson. President Martin commented favorably
on the operation of the new and much-freer cut system and implied a personal leaning toward “letting the student go”
to make the grade or not. But here the responsibility of the college to students and parents becomes a major
consideration. Thus it seems evidence of the Davidson man’s own maturity and initiative would be necessary.

In a second area of dispute settled Tuesday, this same strategy of ‘liberality’ and “freedom” is in evidence. By unanimous
vote, the faculty adopted a resolution on possible censorship of speakers: “An essential part of the education of each student
at Davidson College is the opportunity to hear diverse viewpoints expressed by speakers invited to the campus by student organizations
as well as by members of the faculty and administration. It is highly desirable that students have the opportunity to
question, review, and discuss the opinions of speakers representing a wide range of viewpoints.” To assure that Davidson is visited
by a wide variety of stimulating speakers, a five-man committee (two from the faculty, two from the student body, and
one from the administration) will be appointed to coordinate scheduling. And in this scheduling, “no speaker will be rejected because
of his membership in an organization.” In connection with possible controversial speakers, three principles will be in effect. First, the
committee will see that an alternative viewpoint is given representation on the campus within a reasonable period of time. Second,
the committee may remove the attendance requirement at assemblies where such speakers are appearing. Finally, it will be the committee’s
responsibility to make all aware that the views being expressed are not necessarily those of Davidson College. This resolution in
full has been made available to the student body in mimeographed form.

Journalist Will Speak On Monday

W. D. “Bill” Workman, a noted conservative journalist and former Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate from South Carolina, will
speak Monday night at 7:15 in the Morrison Room of the College Union. A long-time reporter on the South Carolina
governmental and political scene, Workman began his newspaper career with the Charleston News and Courier after his graduation from The
Citadel in 1935. Called to active duty in 1941, he served in the Army for five years and currently is
a colonel in the Army Reserve. At the end of World War II, the journalist established a News and Courier
bureau in Columbia and began an extended career as a capital correspondent, covering government, politics, and other significant aspects of
South Carolina life. He later became correspondent also for The Greenville News and other southern newspapers. From 1954 through 1961
he was the South Carolina correspondent for Southern School News and for many years represented Newsweek magazine. In addition, he
has been a news commentator on several South Carolina radio and television stations. Published last month was The Bishop from
Barnwell, a biographical study centered upon South Carolina politics. He has also written The Case for the South and participated
in the writing of three other books. In 1960 he began a three-times-weekly syndicated column which was published throughout the
South and East. Assuming the position of Associate Editor of The State in Columbia in December 1962, he gave up
the column. Workman ran for the U.S. Senate from South Carolina in November 1962. While failing to attain a majority
of the votes cast, he received the largest Republican vote in South Carolina since the Reconstruction era. Workman’s visit is
being sponsored by the Conservative Club.
