FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1963

Side Lights BY RICK LOWERY

BASKETBALL ... The days of basketball have arrived. Heralded by the many magazines at the Hub and the rose-colored glasses of the Charlotte News, Davidson's winter winner has come. The consensus of opinion of the basketball mags is that Davidson is a slight underdog to beat West Virginia for the Conference championship, that Duke is ranked 2 or 3 in the nation, that Fred Hetzel is some kind (either second, third, or honorable mention) of All-American, and that Dick Snyder is one of the top sophomores in the country.

Meanwhile, back in reality, all is not quite so easy. Early season practice has already seen two injuries. Terry Holland has a broken nose and Barry Teague an injured knee. In addition to this, basketball at Davidson right now is a lot of hard work, late meals, and shin splints. However, the future presents a somewhat more interesting outlook. There are several games this year in the Coliseum. A schedule that includes several well-known basketball powers, the first “Who can name it?” Christmas tournament, and the Southern Conference finals. Quite a number of big-time, high-pressure basketball games will be played by this year’s team. There is no doubt of the talent on Davidson's team. It surpasses that of any other team in the history of the school. The only doubt that remains is will the ’Cats be up to the level of their competition?

SERIOUSLY Mr. Green’s recent column in the Charlotte News is the most favorable athletic coverage that Davidson has received in recent years. This article illustrated the beneficial publicity that an athletic team can contribute to the college. Not only does the excellence of an athletic team place the name of the college before more people, but such articles as Mr. Green’s publicize those academic aspects of which Davidson is proud. A small college like Davidson, if it wishes to recruit the ablest student body possible, must acquaint a representative public with just what makes this kind of college strong. Perhaps this is as good a reason as any for intercollegiate athletics.

SQUEEZE In last week’s paper, the first string all-star flickerball team was reported. Because of a shortage of space, the names of those players elected to the second team were omitted. To give them their due, the following are the second team all-stars:
Sam Grimes KA E
Mac Otts Beta E
Hank Ackerman Beta G
Eddie Earle Kappa Sig C
Dave Johnson Ind. B
Dave Blue Ind. B
Jerry Hopkins Sig Ep B

And to dispel any skepticism, there was no hanky-panky or collusion. According to the official IMAC results as compiled by Sam Going, David Stitt was the first team end.

MUMBLES From the amateur swimmers, basketball buffs, and just ordinary gym rats, a mumble arose this week, “Can the Student Council really do anything about opening the gym at night?”

DAVIDSON OVER LEHIGH

Plenty Of Cooks But How About The Stew?

BETHLEHEM, PA., Lehigh University, Office of Public Information — Lehigh football coach Mike Cooley literally has six hands under center during preseason drills, as a veteran senior quarterback and two talented but untried sophomores battle for a chance to call the first offensive play of the Engineer's 1963 season. Senior John DeNoia (Scotch Plains, N. J.) set a single-game passing mark of 195 yards two seasons ago and kept Lehigh fans on their feet and opponents wary with the threat of his long “bombs.” The only quarterback with significant varsity experience listed on the 1963 Lehigh roster, DeNoia is presently being challenged for the starting spot by Bob Draucker (York, Pa.) and Les Kish (Phillipsburg, N. J.), a pair of neophytes whose combined efforts led Lehigh's freshmen to a won 4-lost 1 slate last year. Draucker passed for a .500 average and three touchdowns before being sidelined with an ankle injury after three games as a freshman, giving Kish a full-time opportunity to display outstanding play-calling and run-pass option abilities. Both sophomores are rated by their coaches as fine defensive backs and have already been tabbed for duty in the Engineer secondary. “With two weeks of practice and a scrimmage with Princeton ahead of us,” he concluded, “our quarterback post could be won by any of the three. And we can't forget junior Mike Yots (Verona, Pa.) who saw some varsity action in 1962.”

After The Game Visit The TASTEE-FREEZ Cornelius for Pizza, Hamburgers, Hot Dogs, Hot Chocolate

BY ERIC NICHOLS

The soccer horde invaded Atlanta from the north using Sherman tactics in devastating Oglethorpe College and Emory University late last week. The team scoring record was pushed from twenty-eight to forty-one goals, as Walt Eckman and Fred Schoen played with the individual scoring record. An Oglethorpe squad composed of retired football players and wrestlers failed to stop a swinging Davidson offense to the tune of a 9-3 romp. Highlight of the game was the new Davidson scoring record of ten goals set by senior Eckman. A total of six 'Cats hit the cage threads in Thursday’s rout. Dan Adams, Bruce Swain, and Lewis Foss booted one apiece as Eckman, Jan Brakel, and Lee Fanning hustled in two each. Besides the help that Oglethorpe offered us, Coach Harry Fogleman cited the efforts of Eckman, who was moved from inside position to center-forward. Eckman “directed the plays" and his scoring helped make the Oglethorpe effort one of his best games yet. Also responsible for the win was a trio of sophomores, led by Fanning, who blasted in two goals. Hustling Foss hit the scoring column for his first goal at Davidson; the two sophomores showed indications of maintaining the bright soccer picture for the 'Cats. Last of the three is first-string fighter Ben Nzengu, who has done a fine job of controlling the ball all season. Fogleman commented that the Oglethorpe coach considered Nzengu worth the placing of two defensive men on him throughout much of the game.

The Emory game should definitely be labeled as a religious triumph of the highest order; Calvin’s forces rolled easily over the Methodists in a 5-1 rout. At least twenty-five alumni, along with a saddened Homecoming crowd, observed the team's best offensive attack of the season. Fogleman stated that the only one who made a mistake all day was himself. He lamented substituting a certain short, stout player to cover one of Emory’s fastest men. He went on to say that “You can't single out one player and say that he made the game for us.” Powerful Glenn Hanes pulled together to play the game everyone has been expecting of him. Most of Hanes’ previous efforts this year were hampered by an early season leg injury. The past forgotten, Hanes played his part as a defensive giant as a helpless Emory squad managed only a single goal in the closing minutes of the game.

One of Davidson's most consistent soccer men is spunky Mike Nemir. Co-captain Nemir once again led the attack Saturday. Fogleman’s word on Nemir is that he “never comes up with a bad game.” This might also be said of senior halfback Tarby Bryant, who throughout the season has played every quarter with the old Davidson spirit. An important outcome of the game was co-captain Schoen's three-goal offensive play, which broke Eckman's two-day-old season scoring record. Schoen hit with goals nine, ten, and eleven to place him one ahead of Eckman. Junior Brakel scored one more goal to bring his year’s total to seven. Scholar Simon Henson also scored a goal, the first of the game. The Wildcats opened this past Monday to the practice field to prepare to close out the season. Today, they meet with Pfeiffer College at Meisenheimer.

Lehigh Meets Davidson In Battle Of The Winless BY JIM BEASLEYWith Benny Coxton now permanently at halfback, Davidson is priming its offense for tomorrow's football game with Lehigh University. The Wildcats also plan to make extensive use of the shotgun formation which was so effective against Presbyterian two weeks ago. This is the ‘Cats’ first game with the Engineers since 1960, when Davidson defeated them 21-18 at Bethlehem, Pa. “We just don't know much about them,” says Coach Bill Dole. “From two scouting reports, we know they run from a different offensive set of plays each game, so we will prepare a standard defense.” The man to watch seems to be sophomore quarterback Lee Kish, whose running and passing have accounted for many of the Engineer's scores this season. A Middle Atlantic Conference team, Lehigh has failed to win over any of its tough opponents. They have lost to Delaware, Cornell, Gettysburg, Rutgers, Columbia, and Colgate. After Davidson, they complete this schedule with Bucknell and Lafayette. Morris Williams and Lyle Blalock are doubtful starters for Davidson. Because of injured ankles, they haven't seen much practice this week. Tackle Bill Dole, Jr. has been moved to Williams’ guard spot and Jim Fuller will take Blalock’s fullback position. Sophomore Sid Tompkins will alternate with Earl Cole at quarterback. With four losses and two ties, the Wildcats are looking for their first win. William and Mary next week and Wofford on Nov. 22 remain on the Davidson schedule.

Wrestling Tourney Begins Next Week

With flickerball out of the way, the IMAC is now in the process of wrapping up golf. The lowest three scores from each fraternity will be considered in tabulating the standings; the deadline for turning in scores has been extended to Sunday midnight. According to President Sammy Going, the wrestling tournament will begin next Monday. Most fraternities have taken to the mats in preparation and Ritz cracker diets are not uncommon among the more obese would-be jocks. The only other sport scheduled before Thanksgiving is swimming. Present plans call for basketball to begin immediately after Thanksgiving. In contrast to past years, each team should have around six games completed by the Christmas break. The only other note of present interest to come out of the IMAC is the postponement of track until next spring.

Harriers Take Fifth Place In N.C. State Invitationals

BY DAVID POWELL

Facing a field of highly-subsidized teams at the State Meet at Raleigh last Tuesday, Davidson’s harriers took a respectable fifth place. North Carolina won the meet and was followed by Duke, N.C. State, and Wake Forest. Davidson succeeded in defeating Pembroke, which had previously lost to the ‘Cats in a dual meet, High Point, and Atlantic Christian College. Tommy Heffner was the first Davidson man to place, taking eighteenth. He was followed by John Barrow (20th), Ronnie Reese (27th), Andy Little (32nd), and Denny Phillips (33rd). “The boys made a good showing,” commented Coach Heath Whittle, “considering they faced a field of about seventy-five fine runners.” Led by Robert Dean and Bob Sjogren, the Freshman cross-country team took an even better fourth place, once again trailing Carolina, Duke, and Wake Forest. Both Dean and Sjogren won medals, placing seventh and ninth respectively. With this meet, the Freshman ended their season, compiling a 3-2 won-lost record. The varsity, however, still has one dual meet on its schedule, facing V.P.I. at Blacksburg on Nov. 12. Should the ’Cats take this one, which appears somewhat likely, they will take an enviable 6-3 record with them to the conference meet, also to be held at V.P.I. on Nov. 18.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ___ David Stitt
BUSINESS MANAGER ___ Rick Finch
Associate Editors Tim Kimrey
News Editor ___ Jim Downey
Bill Ruth
Photography Editor Joe McCutchen
Jeff Wampler
Photographers ___ Sam Smith
Romir Chatterjee
Managing Editors ___ Charles Dibble
Cartoonists ___ Dan Adams
Charles Ramberg
Johnny Wright
Assistant Editor ___ Rick von Unwerth
Assignments Editor
Feature Editor
Assistant Sports Editor Bob Strauser
Rick Lowery
Sports Editor John Todd
Tom Loflin
Rufus Hallmark
Paul van den Berg
Assistant Bus. Manager Charlie Smith
Advertising Manager ___ Irvine Welling
Circulation Manager ___ Malcolm Lane
Contributors This Week: Charles Edwards, Bill Aitken, Paul Simpson, Rufus Adair, John Ouzts, Harry Carr, Bill Briggs, Allen Webb, Bill Foster, Dick Hicks, George R. Fain, Bill Norfleet, Cliff Kirkpatrick, John Bailey, Eric Nichols, David Powell, Forrest Roles, Jim Beasley, and Bill Hufford.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Freshmen To ‘Ruff’ G-W Eleven

BY FORREST ROLES

“It wasn’t the same team I saw three weeks ago at The Citadel,” moaned freshman football coach, Captain Don Campbell, when asked to comment on his team’s game at Gardner-Webb last Saturday. The Wildkitten’s 21-0 loss was their second of the year against one victory. “It was a good game for three quarters.” The home team jumped out to an early 7-0 lead on a sustained drive. The Davidson line seemed to have held them, stopping them dead on the 'Kitten three yard line, but Gardner-Webb pushed over on fourth down. The ‘Kittens came out for the third quarter fired up and moved the ball well. They dominated almost the whole quarter, yet could not move the ball over for a score. Near the end of the quarter, however, a Gardner-Webb halfback intercepted a counter pass in the flat and took the ball all the way back. The home team then led 14-0. “That interception broke our back,” said head coach, Captain Robert Pierce. “We were two touchdowns behind with only a little over a quarter to go. We never could get going again.” Gardner-Webb scored its last touchdown on a fumbled punt in the end-zone with 40 seconds left. “I thought we'd beat that team,” said Coach Campbell. “They were better than I'd thought they would be. We could never seem to keep their backs from picking up that extra yard after they were hit. I think we’ll play a better game against Furman a week from Saturday.”

Captain Donald Campbell and his Davidson rifle team opened their season last Saturday afternoon in Raleigh. Competing against the Air Force and Army ROTC departments at N.C. State and the Army ROTC department at New Hanover High School, the ‘Cats finished second. Captain Campbell noted, “We consider the affair as three dual meets, of which we won two and lost one.” The final margin of victory for the Air Force was slim. Top man for Davidson was Dick Forrester with 280. A perfect score consists of 300 points, with 100 points possible in each of the prone, kneeling, and standing positions. Besides Forrester, the team consists of Ronnie Rudolph, Ed Bostian, Jim Kopp, Bob Groat, Dick Levy, and Sam Black. This squad will travel to Charleston, S.C., next Friday for a match with The Citadel. According to Captain Campbell, the Cadets “are about the toughest team around the Southern Conference.”

WALT ECKMAN GOES BACK TO THE PRACTICE FIELD after holding the school scoring record for two days on the recent Georgia trip. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

The Hub Now Bus Station and Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

exam... pencil... paper... proctor... time... begin... think... blank... tick tick... guess... tick tick... write... tick tick... hurry... finish... time... pause... drink Coca-Cola... smile... relax... Coca-Cola... think... refresh... start... again...