PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1963

Three Foreign Students Discuss Scandinavian Sex, Socialism

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Albergotti
Blackwell
Clark
Fegteman
Fredericksen
Goldiere
Holland
Hopkins
Lobanov
Partridge
Puckett
Wheaton
Woods
Workman

BY BILL LOGAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Foreign students Jan Bergstrand and Christian Faber-Rod enlightened the International Relations Club this week on “Sex and Socialism in Scandinavia.” Bergstrand, whose home is in Southern Sweden, spoke briefly on sex before explaining socialism in his country. He said that a Swedish boy doesn't usually date a girl until he knows her. Meeting new girls is accomplished by going to dances, “Nearly everyone comes alone, but most of them go home with company.”

Socialist Sweden, said Bergstrand, has often been misrepresented. “While welfare does present a risk of too much bureaucracy, we do have an official who investigates official oppression of individuals. This man has no party affiliation and serves until his retirement. He receives many letters.”

“Sweden's railroads and buses are administered nationally; they seldom make a profit,” said Bergstrand. “Utilities are entirely nationalized, but this limits no one’s freedom. Public schools are also administered nationally; there are no local school boards. All students take the same exam at the same time. There is a medical program in which people can get back two-thirds of what they paid for medical care.” After Bergstrand ended his talk by saying that Sweden has the lowest mortality rate in Europe, Christian Faber-Rod began by saying, “Denmark has the highest suicide rate in the world. Well, you have to be proud of something!” Suicides are most common, he said, among old people and among girls between the ages of 18 and 30. He said that socialism may be the cause of suicides among old people—they don't want to have to be cared for by a welfare agency. Faber-Rod stated that many of the women who commit suicide after having illegitimate children do it not because of shame, but because of sadness when their ‘lovers’ don’t love them.

He said that blind dates aren't nearly so common in Denmark as they are here. A boy may pick up a girl at a restaurant-dance hall and take her home. There is no restraint due to “morality,” he said. He added that one-night affairs aren’t too common because most girls must feel that love is involved. He said that in many European universities boy and girl students live on different floors in the same dormitory, and that there are no regulations about where one may be. Faber-Rod told of several incidents illustrating the freedom among European students, and then said, “Here, you can't even play cards with girls in a motel room without being thrown out of school.” He said that doctors encourage a relationship before marriage, that abortions are allowed in Denmark only under very special circumstances, and that responsibility of the father for an illegitimate child was a law. Asked about sex crimes, Faber-Rod was unable to make a positive statement, but he said that they were probably less prevalent in Denmark than in America.

The audience of 19 included Miss Elizabeth Johnston, Peace Corps representative, and Alexander Wustmann, foreign student from Germany. Wustmann was asked about sex in Germany. He said that German schools too had classes about sex “because the government realizes that parents fail to give a good explanation to their sons and daughters.” He said that a major factor in Germany was the shortage of men due to the war—there are five million more women than men in Germany. Wustmann said that German women often put advertisements in the newspaper which state their capital assets and that they are looking for a husband. All of the speakers favored the European attitude toward sex. Faber-Rod said, “I think the attitude toward sex is healthier in Denmark than in America. You can walk through Belk Dormitory and see ‘playmates’ on the walls in many rooms. I'd rather have mine in ‘living color’.”

Bob Parker, President of the IRC, announced next year's officers at the IRC’s last meeting of this year, held on Tuesday night. Named President was Grier Stephenson; the Vice-President will be Jim Brindell; and Jay Federman will serve as Secretary-Treasurer.

Students Take Part in Philosophy Meet

A group of 10 Davidson men journeyed to Atlanta to participate in the ninth annual Student Philosophy Conference held at Emory University Saturday, April 27. The conference, held jointly with Davidson, Emory, Sewanee, Chattanooga, and Agnes Scott, is an attempt to encourage interest in philosophy and to stimulate critical thinking on the part of students. The faculty is excluded from discussion. Each year a topic of importance from the field of philosophy is chosen for discussion. Each of the four schools presents a formal paper on the topic and two students from the other schools criticize it. The floor is then opened for informal discussion. Each paper is allowed about an hour and a half.

The participants were Patrick Freeny, D. C. Gilley, Joe McCutchen, David Suter, Peter Schade, Dale Joyner, George Williams, Chuck Weaver, Jay Federman, and Bill Ferris. The topic of the conference, the A Priori, was chosen from the area of epistemology, or knowledge. It is concerned with that type of knowledge which is prior to and independent of experience; hence, A Priori. The Davidson paper, The Necessity of the A Priori in A. J. Ayer’s Language, Truth and Logic, was written by Freeny, a junior. Gilley and Suter responded to the Sewanee and Emory papers, respectively. Davidson will serve as host to the Conference in May, 1964. The topic selected for next year is Martin Heidegger, a German philosopher often connected with the existential movement, who has had a significant influence on the philosophy of Jean-Paul Sartre, the French atheistic existentialist.

Three Davidson Men Now Members Of Peace Corps

BY GREG GOVAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The anonymous but general comment, “I didn't think anyone from Davidson would go into the Peace Corps,” now has two arguments against it. Davidson has three Rhodes Scholars this year; the two “equivalents” are seniors Bobby Auman and Tim Powell, who are trading grad school for two years abroad as grass-roots ambassadors. Ron Shaffner, who attended Davidson his first two years before transferring to UNC, is now with the corps in Bolivia, but Auman and Powell are the first graduates (cp. Woodrow Wilson) to go into training with the organization. Auman is presently slated for an agricultural project in Guatemala, but expects to be re-assigned to a teaching position, probably in another location. Powell will be assigned to a community development project in Nepal. Both have survived the application phase, including a test on general knowledge and motives for joining. There remains a three-to-four-month training phase for the area of assignment. Powell cautioned that he had been accepted for this training, not for actual assignment, and still must better a one-in-seven attrition rate on trainees before joining the 42 Corpsmen projected for the Nepal operation. After training at the University of Oregon, including orientation to mountains at Aspen, Colo., the 36 men and six women of the Nepal project will assist the Nepalese monarchy in its transition to democracy by organization of the local leadership and resources. Powell also expressed hopes that he would get to teach, citing the desire of the Nepalese to learn English due to their proximity to bilingual India.

Farmer Sows Seed For Racial Harmony

BY CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

The telltale sound that warns a driver that one of his tires is losing air or a chapel speaker that he is displeasing his audience did not mar the visit of James Farmer to the Davidson campus Monday. Instead, his audiences greeted the organizer of freedom rides and sit-ins, the national director of the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE), which is an anathema in much of the white south, with respect—and with serious questions that penetrated to the depths of white misgivings about the complete abolition of all color lines that Farmer preaches and works for.

"Skin color is a biological accident,” the heavy-set Negro told his listeners. He said that the prejudice that makes color an all-important quality and then ascribes other qualities according to color is not inborn. “Children have to be taught it. Well, what is learned can be unlearned and that is the purpose of CORE." From this point, the barrage of student questions homed on the implications of the “creative contact" that Farmer wants between the races and the “positive, aggressive steps” that his organization seeks to gain it by. By “creative contact” he did not mean interracial procreation. Asked if complete integration would mean intermarriage, he reminded students of one salient fact: “No more Negroes can marry whites than whites marry Negroes.” He further stated that intermixing of the illegal variety has been going on at a rapid rate since the slaves first arrived, to such an extent that some sociologists claim that 80-90 per cent of all Negroes have white blood. Finally, he reassured his listeners, “Negroes oppose intermarriage as much as whites.”

The problem of the desirable extent of racial separation provoked a question on how Farmer felt about the Black Muslims from a student who had obviously read his Playboy, which interviewed Muslim spokesman Malcolm X in its May issue. Farmer based CORE opposition to the Muslims on their position of racism—black supremacy and total race separation, “We don't believe in a racist theory of history,” commented Farmer. He estimated Muslim membership at around 10,000, far below the Muslims' own estimates, and then explained why he thinks the Muslims won't sweep the country. “Negroes spring from a non-hating Judaeo-Christian tradition. They're Methodists and Baptists. Now if they (the Muslims) become the Black Nazarenes, then we're in for trouble,” he concluded to the laughter of his audience.

He explained CORE separation from National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) in terms of methods to achieve the same desired goal of racial equality, with the concomitant employment and educational opportunity. “Any action we take follows in three steps. First we investigate the situation to see if it needs action. Then we try to negotiate to get what we want. Only if we don't get a significant concession do we take direct action.” He noted that the NAACP approach when negotiation produces unsatisfactory results is to go to the courts. “Litigation takes so long,” he contended. “And even when successful it often only decides moot issues.” Farmer pointed to numerous instances of direct action CORE has taken to close what he called the gap between the law and its implementation. He said that now, after the freedom rides, a Negro can eat at an unsegregated bus station lunch counter in Anniston, Alabama, where a bus was burned during the rides. He told how CORE rented trucks to carry trash from a Negro slum in New York and dumped the collected refuse on the steps of City Hall to convince the city to give the Negro housing area as frequent sanitation service as surrounding white areas were getting. The questions continued, with Farmer...Fielding each one deftly, often hurling back a far more complete answer than the questioner had sought. A WSOC-TV cameraman stepped into the circle of students around Farmer and put a mike cord around his neck. “If we were in Mississippi I don’t think I'd let him do that,” quipped Farmer. While the cameraman took his pictures, more students wandered into the discussion, bringing attendance to nearly a hundred curious, intent students. He characterized Adam Clayton Powell: “Intelligent, a lot of ability, a complete opportunist, a dangerous demagogue. He has failed to use his great talent effectively for the benefit of the people in the civil rights movement.” Farmer unflinchingly gave his personal opinions on James Meredith, although he was obviously hesitant to speak about the man who ended segregation at Old Miss. After emphasizing the great pressure that Meredith was under, he said, “Meredith has done many things he shouldn't have done. I have disagreed with his utterances and his writings. But I feel he has stood up quite well under the circumstances.” His questioners, impressed with his candor, had many more questions, even after four hours of discussion, but Farmer had to leave to be interviewed in Charlotte on WBT-TV. The students rose as he bustled out to his ride, thinking about his final comment released to the atmosphere of a church-related college. “He who preaches love in a society based on injustice can only be hypocritical.”

The way in Nepal has been paved by 69 teachers from the corps, all of whom have been in English and agriculture. Following in their wake, Powell and his fellow corpsmen will try to build the local Panchayat into a democratic unit. The main obstruction, he said, would be the remnants of the caste system. Auman's plans are necessarily vague, pending action on his request to teach. He stated, after a talk with Miss Johnston, that he had confidence his request would be honored.

Goodykoontz (Continued From Page One) should be paid in full if you expected to complete the work normally due under the contract.” Goodykoontz said that he stated in the first condition that his salary should be paid until the end of the year because “the end of the contract year is the last of July. I was afraid that they would not pay me after the end of the semester if I did not add that condition.” Goodykoontz said that he had not decided where he would go after he left Davidson. But he did say, “Johnston's haste to expedite my departure will not work, as I intend to stay around for the meeting of the Board of Trustees.” Goodykoontz emphasized that he was still interested in his cause for more creativity and freedom at Davidson. He added, “I will give a part of the money they will pay me for next year to a fund marked specifically to establish a creative writing magazine at Davidson. I urge all alumni and students who can afford to do so to contribute to this fund.”

In a signed statement handed to THE DAVIDSONIAN yesterday, Dean Johnston made the following comments: "I have, as you know, accepted the resignation of Dr. Goodykoontz as of May 1, 1963. I wish students to know that I am not insensible to the inconvenience and, perhaps, the disappointment that is inevitable in a change of instructors at this late date in the semester. I realize that no arrangements we now make can be ideal and that there are two sides to the question as to what the best interests of the students and of the college may be in this matter. I am not bold enough to claim infallible wisdom, and I am painfully aware of the fact that circumstances compel me to make a decision in this matter. It is my honest conviction that, under conditions presently prevailing, it is best for the college as a whole and for the students in particular that the resignation of Dr. Goodykoontz be immediately effective. This is my best judgment and I am willing to take responsibility for it.”

MAJOR PROMOTION — Former Captain Robert W. Pierce receives his oak leaves indicating his recent promotion to major. Mrs. Patricia Pierce, his wife, and Lt. Col. Paul Wheaton, Davidson College PMS, presented him with the insignia on April 25. The MS instructor graduated from Presbyterian College as a Distinguished Military Student, and received a second lieutenant’s commission in 1952. He served in Korea from 1952 to 1954 and in Europe from 1956 to 1958. He was assigned to the Davidson ROTC department in June, 1960. Pierce has won the Bronze Star, two Army Commendation Medals, and the Combat Infantry Medal.

As President Of Union BY JOHN HIGGINS Davidsonian Staff Writer Warren, the new president of the College Union, publicly assumed the office on Friday, April 26. About 150 students and faculty members were present as Warren took the gavel at a banquet given by the College Union in honor of the students and faculty who have worked on the Union projects this year, either in committees or in special programs. Warren outlined the major points of the program he hopes to institute at the Union. He plans to add to the present Union services or functions as well as expanding the existing ones. He listed two remaining projects which will take place this year. On Tuesday, May 7, a panel, partially comprised of some of the exchange students, will evaluate this year's experience at Davidson. The panel will be composed of Christian Faber-Rod from Denmark, Geoffrey Luckock and John Lewis of England, and Frank Pfeffer, a native of Uruguay. The Union will conduct a spring auction on the day before ROTC exam. Teachers and students will be asked to contribute anything they no longer want; or they may bring items they would like the auctioneer to sell for them. Warren also mentioned some activities which the Union will undertake next year: 1. Dr. G. L. Abernethy will lead a discussion on the question, “Are You Getting Your Money’s Worth at Davidson?” 2. A Last Lecture Series will invite professors to speak on any topic they choose. However, the speech must be prepared as if it were the last one the professor would ever deliver. 3. A travel committee will be organized to perform a two-fold service: to provide information on travel programs abroad and to coordinate ride requests for students at vacation time. 4. The review-the-news program will be broadened to include discussion between professors and students. 5. Discussions on controversial films will be led by Pat Freeny.

Alumnus Returns For Vespers Talk This Sunday’s vespers speaker will be R. Murphy Williams, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Myrtle Beach, S. C. Williams was born in Greensboro, N. C., on Aug. 21, 1920. He received his AB from Davidson in 1941 and his BD from Union Theological Seminary in Virginia in 1944. He served as a chaplain in the United States Navy from 1944 to 1946. Before going to Myrtle Beach, Williams was pastor of the Bethel Church in Staunton, Va., and the First Presbyterian Church of Wilson, N. C.

HIGHWAY 29 Open 6 A.M.-9 P.M. 6:00 - 9:00 P.M. DANIA RESTAURANT CONCORD, N. C. WEDNESDAY NIGHTS: Golden Fried Chicken (1/2) $1.50 FRIDAY NIGHTS: “All the Fish You Can Eat” $1.50 SAT. NIGHTS: Buffet Supper American-Continental Foods $2.50 Closed Mondays