Che BDavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BILL HAGEN Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

EP WILLER Business Manager

FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1963

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A More Efficient System?

Met a friend of ours during the holidays who announced with not a little dramatic fervor that he was “free!”
We pushed aside our books and papers for a minute and asked him just what he meant by that statement.
He pointed to the small mound of books and papers and asked, “What are you doing with them?” We said
that we were trying to prepare for exams and the frenzy preceding them by using a little of the holiday
time to study. “That is what I am free from during the holidays,” he said. “I have taken my exams
and am now resting and making resolutions for the rest of the school year.” He was, of course, under the
quarter system. And he turned out to be quite a promoter for the quarter or Chicago plan.

Since we were about in the right mood, we shoved the books still further away and asked him to go
on. He pointed out that the quarter system divides the year into four parts. The fall quarter runs from September
to December with the Christmas recess forming a natural break between fall and winter quarters. The winter quarter goes till
mid-March and the long weekend break after exams serves as spring vacation. We mentioned that this seemed to be the
answer for some of our faculty members who didn’t like the way Christmas and spring breaks interrupted the thread of
their courses. Our friend acknowledged this and said that this advantage seemed to far outweigh the inconveniences of three exams
and three registrations during the regular school year.

He went on to explain that the spring quarter ends in June and three days later the summer quarter begins.
In this way his school is operating at full capacity the year around and is able to handle many more
students than a school on the semester system. He said that the summer quarters are usually very well attended. We
thought of the rising waters of Lake Norman and imagined that Davidson could probably count on quite a few students
during the summertime too. Our friend was particularly happy with the summer quarter because it meant that he, by attending
two of them, was easily going to be able to graduate in three years.

We asked him if he could possibly cover a semester of material in a course that ran for only one
quarter. He explained that the normal load is only three courses at any one time and that each of these
courses meets five times a week. In this way each course meets at least as many times as in a
semester and students have the weekends free to boot. The real advantage of this, though, is in concentration of subject
material. A student who takes only three courses can concentrate more on each individual subject. This aspect assumes particular importance
in the realm of languages. Our animated friend proclaimed that having to study and speak German every weekday had certainly
been a boon to him!

At this point, he looked at his watch and said he wanted to go back and catch the rest of
a bowl game and get ready for a date that night. As he left us, we thought of the approaching
exams and papers, and his quarter system seemed like some fairy tale in a far-away land. But maybe he had
an idea there...

A Service To The Century

To most of us, the Peace Corps means little more than something about Sargent Shriver and the New Frontier. But
to the 5000 volunteers at work in 42 countries around the world, the Peace Corps is an opportunity for service
and education. In an appeal to college students, Director Shriver has said: “The world is coming alive. New countries are
bursting with activity. In Latin America and the Middle East, in Africa and Asia, there is an urgent desire to
leap into the twentieth century.

“The Peace Corps is part of our effort to help make that leap forward a success. It is a part
of our effort to help in the world-wide assault against poverty, hunger, ignorance and disease—a roots, rice roots volunteer effort
of free men.”

Although a college degree is not a prerequisite for projects, it is considered a definite asset, and most volunteers are
either college students or graduates. Copies of the winter issue of the Peace Corps News, featuring pictures and stories about
volunteers from colleges and universities, will be distributed in a future issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Some colleges and universities give academic credit for Peace Corps work, primarily in language and cultural studies, although independent study
projects may also be carried out, provided they don’t interfere with the basic purposes for which the volunteer is serving
overseas.

Davidson students have remained largely uninterested in the Peace Corps. The reasons vary: lack of information, military service requirements (deferment
is granted for overseas work), or apathy. Chaplain Will Terry has assumed the job of liaison for the Corps at
Davidson, and is anxious to supply information to any students who are interested in exploring the opportunities this program offers.
A test for those interested in becoming volunteers will be given in Charlotte on Jan. 26.

We frequently complain of the provincialism of life at Davidson and a too-conservative atmosphere that stunts our “liberal” education. The
Peace Corps offers a chance for service to the underdeveloped countries coupled with an opportunity for intellectual and often spiritual
growth. The Peace Corps is a challenge to the college graduate to give of himself and represent America to backward
people, many of whom see the Communist promise “to each according to his need” as the only escape from poverty.
Too often we speak in general terms of “helping mankind” while ignoring the particular events which make progress possible. The
Peace Corps offers a chance to participate in such particular events. May we prove equal to the challenge.

Staff

Associate Editor .. Knox Abernethy

Editorial Assistant — Jim Williams

Bill Ruth

Managing Editors ____. David Stitt

Jeff Wampler

Bill Pridgen

Assignments Editor

Charles Ramberg

Greg Govan

Charles Dibble

Assistant Editor

Sports Editor

Feature Editor

News Editor

Assistant News Editor

Jimmy Downey

Photographers

Joe McCutchen

Buck Lawrimore

Cartoonists __ Dan Adams

Joe Howell

Walter MacDonald

Rufus Hallmark

Advertising Manager — Charlie Smith

Circulation Manager _ Malcolm Lane

Assistant Bus. Manager _ Rick Finch

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

That Flame Of Learning...

Spratt Concludes NSA Series: ‘Wait And See’

BY JOHN SPRATT

NSA Coordinator

In the past several articles, I have tried different approaches in presenting the National Student Association. The first was rather
general while the last covered some of the specifics of the NSA constitution. Countless questions remain, but perhaps the answers
to two general queries can summarize some of what has been left unmentioned.

First, is NSA worth the price for dues and the time for participation? This question cannot really be answered with
finality. As of now, we can only speculate. It should be clarified, however, that there is no intention of organizing
an “open branch” of NSA on the Davidson campus. There is little use and less sense in squeezing another organization
into an already much-organized campus. Instead, NSA will be used to supplement the work of other bodies, the Student Council,

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Maloney: ‘Bomb Shelters Are Positive’

Maloney

Dear Editor:

Few things are as alarming to a professor as being aware of impressions he has inadvertently left with students. My
only claim to kinship with Biblical prophets is that they too were misunderstood. In reference to Mr. Loflin's article on
the Civil Defense shelter plan in the December 7th DAVIDSONIAN, I would like to correct the following impressions:

1. The solutions to the problem of the world’s population growth lie in birth control, increased industry and food production,
and better food distribution; not the inevitability of atomic war.

2. My primary motive for constructing a radiation shelter was the conviction that such shelters can be a positive deterrent
to nuclear attack. A nation is less likely to attack another nation known to be well-prepared to survive such an
attack. The article on my shelter in THE DAVIDSONIAN last year made this clear.

Nuclear warfare can be considered inevitable only if we relax ourvigilance against mechanical and human errors in the handling of
nuclear weapons, or if we exert less than our best efforts in constant, patient, deterrent international diplomacy. As long as
nations stockpile nuclear weapons, the possibility of such a war is a reality we cannot pretend does not exist. I
believe that families, institutions, and communities should be as realistic in making adequate preparations for that emergency as they are
in matters of fire prevention, vaccines, and health and life insurance. S. D. Maloney, Department of Bible and Religion, Deputy
Director of Civil Defense for Davidson

Dear Editor:

Two-and-a-half pats on the back for Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz and his heroic little band of anti-warmongers for their brave
rally on Armistice Day. How surprising to find that there are still a few people who disapprove of war! However,
it seems that while they were at it, they might just as well have included a protest against hate and
envy and greed, etc., etc., etc., and against people who think they have some sort of corner on truth. I'm
sure that such a protest would accomplish a great deal, particularly if it were sponsored by some of the professional
“world-savers” who seem to be so well represented on the Davidson campus.

John Woods

the YMCA, the International Relations Club. One instance of such assistance already in operation is our affiliation, through NSA, with
Educational Travel Association, lending aid to traveling students and offering student tours abroad. This program is being combined with the
YMCA travel program and handled by Dudley Salley. Another instance is our association, through NSA, with the CCUN, Collegiate Council
on the United Nations, which is staging a mid-south Model General Assembly in February.

A second question might be posed of perhaps further reaching significance. Why affiliate with an organization whose policies we disagree
with? It is true that NSA has, at times, elbowed its way down crowded streets of opinion. It has assumed
questionable stands on controversial issues and probably will continue to do so. However, I think we can weather a little
controversy—and probably to our benefit. Besides, we are obligated to support no NSA policy with which we disagree. In time
we may find NSA completely irrelevant. As of yet, we cannot be certain. Second semester we will be implementing some
of their proposals, applying some of their suggestions. Only after we have seen how the organization will work at Davidson
can we justifiably commend or condemn it.

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten,
double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with
the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received no later than 6 p.m.
Wednesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 218, Davidson, N. C. We will not publish anonymous
letters unless the writer consults the editor.

By Hallmark

New Year's And The Resolutions

BY DAVE PUSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The following statements were submitted to the Faculty Committee on New Year’s and Hannukah Resolutions:

Charles Dana: Unless they re-name Belk Dormitory for me, I'm going to stop my Calvin contributions and donate to other
denominational schools—Assumption College, Eastern Nazarene, Hebrew Teachers, like that.

Stu Jamison (chairman, Film Committee): To pay for our new equipment, I’m planning to cut out all arty, obscure, nihilist
presentations. We'll show Gone With The Wind and Tobacco Road every night, unless we can work out a co-op program
with the Fox.

Dr. Schenck: I resolve to coach our cheerleaders so they'll be better heard at noisy basketball games and so they’ll
say “Give ’em heck, ’Cats.”

Johnny Rogers (President, IFC): The IFC will do its darndest to get the Drifters back for Midwinters, due to popular
response.

Mr. Stacks: I will devote 30% of the laundry’s income to research in the ever-changing technological fields of pants-pressing and
button-smashing.

John Horton: I shall make it a point, whenever meeting any prospective college students, to sell them on Davidson, pointing
out its liberal attitudes and its unique personal contact between students and administration.

Dr. Lilly: I'm sick of being a kindly old gent type, and will revert to my secret desire of being
a professional gambler, complete with snarl, eyeshades, and brocaded vest.

Cop Linker: To end the numerous protestations of moonlighting that have been leveled against me this past year, I’m discontinuing
my bread and sweet roll delivery service to the dormitories. In the future all my efforts will be directed against
such consummate evil-doers as visiting clergymen who try to park on campus without parking stickers.

Dr. Abernethy: I will continue to place the initiative to study on the students by granting them more than the
presently allowed cuts and refusing to check on their day-to-day work by such high-school methods as writs.

Belk family: If the name of the new science building is not changed to that of our family, Davidson College
can henceforth cease to expect financial assistance from us. Let them look to the Harris-Teeters if that’s their idea of
grace.

Dr. Clark: I resolve to give my old sneakers to the YMCA, the rest of my wardrobe to Pete Ney
and Tiff Harrington, and join the Peace Corps as an iron mucker.

Mimi Martin: If Daddy doesn’t stop leaving all the lights in the Fine Arts Building on for me the nights
of fraternity parties, and stop making me sign that silly pledge, I resolve to SCREAM.

C. Shaw Smith: It is my ambition for the coming year to organize my sons into a football team, and
demand that they be allowed to represent the college next season.

Chaplain Terry: I resolve to resolve once and for all the mystery of students who every day stick their heads
in my office, glance around, and ask “Where’s the Penguin?”

Dr. Plott: The Male Chorus will include in its repertoire for the coming year numerous Ferlin Huskey songs and a
trained chimp act (featuring Chuck Frew) in an effort to receive a booking on the Ed Sullivan Show.

President Martin: I resolve to devote hours of practice to becoming accomplished in the Wildcats “Let’s Go!” hand clap, with
which I’m having considerable trouble. Let’s see, clap, clap, clap-clap, clap-clap, clap,— No, confound it! That’s not it...

Don Stowell: I resolve to do my best to discourage THE DAVIDSONIAN and Bill Ferris from actively supporting the Vagabonds.
“Too many intellectuals spoil the victuals.” or something like that.

Mrs. Moore: I will, in the coming months, open my file of pin-ups which this office has confiscated through the
years and price them for quick sale. The money thus realized, plus contributions from the fraternity court, should be sufficient
to put Pat through college.

Dean Burts: I resolve to check out of the Charlotte Library and faithfully study Our Heritage of Hemp, Cord in
Our Culture, and Ties of Tradition. Then maybe I can get my hands untied.

Emory U. Points Out Need For Scientists

BY JEFF WAMPLER
Davidsonian Managing Editor

In response to the growing need for graduates educated to highest competence in biology, chemistry, mathematics and physics, Emory University
has instituted this year a modified bachelor of science degree. The basic core of courses in the humanities and social
sciences will remain an integral part of the new B.S. program. The science department at Emory feels one of the
major benefits is that students will be able to identify themselves with a quality science program. Requiring a solid foundation
in mathematics through calculus, the curriculum will permit students to follow a flexible program of study emphasizing the most modern
developments in science while providing them an opportunity to pursue courses adapted to their special needs and interests.

The new curriculum is planned to meet the demands growing out of increasing interest in science and to increase the
output of high quality scientists and science teachers. We may learn a valuable lesson from this change in the Emory
science program. It is surprising that Davidson, which has high quality biology, chemistry, mathematics and physics departments, graduates so few
men interested in becoming scientists. The lure of a medical career apparently blinds many to the possibilities for service and
advancement to be found in the more specialized areas of science. We hope that some of those interested in a
scientific career will look outside the pre-med major and see the opportunities in the rapidly expanding specialized sciences.
