FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

AT MEISENHEIMER

‘Cat Baseballers Face Pfeiffer

HIGHLIGHTS and SIDELIGHTS
BY BILL PRIDGEN

CLASS OF ‘67 FOOTBALLERS

Well, Bill Dole’s recruiting worries are over for another year — he’s received confirmation from all of his scholarship boys for next fall and from information we've received the 1964 edition of the Davidson frosh football squad should be a good one. Speed and agility are the strong points in Dole’s new crew. Most of his group of seventeen scholarship boys were also sprinters in high school, and one of them, Mickey Andrews from Greensboro, runs the 100-yard dash in 10.2. Dole mentioned that Andrews and Johnny Walker, a fullback from Laurens, S. C., were excellent breakaway backs and should really help the squad in the backfield. One of the biggest catches for Dole this year was the Hy of Jimmy Poole, North High's star quarterback. Dole considered Poole to have been “the best passing-running quarterback in Mecklenburg County last year.” The only thing that may hurt Poole’s playing is his size—he only weighs 155. Another bright spot on the squad is punting, which has plagued Dole in the past. Walker, George Jacobsen from Greensboro, and Claude Owen from Danville, Va., should answer that problem, particularly Jacobsen, who’s supposed to really be able to kill the pigskin. The most noticeable difference between this and last year’s frosh squad is the line size. There are no really big boys this year, Gary Walman from Pittsburgh at 225, being the biggest. But Dole isn’t worried about this, saying, "a — that the agility of the line will more than make up for it.” This year’s team also boasts no lack of backs which hurt last year’s frosh. In all, it looks like a balanced and speedy group, and they should turn in a good record at Davidson.

1964 FRESHMAN TEAM

| Position | ht. | wt. | Hometown |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E | Bill Rikard | 6' | 180 | Canton, N. C. |
| E | Claude Owen | 6'2" | 200 | Danville, Va. |
| E | Mike Gibbons | 6'2" | 175 | Lenoir, N. C. |
| T | Ed Childs | 6'2" | 190 | Wadesboro, N. C. |
| T | Bill Randolph | 6' | 205 | Fords, N. J. |
| T | Carl Porter | 6'4" | 215 | Raleigh, N. C. |
| C | Gary Walman | 6' | 225 | Pittsburgh, Penn. |
| G | Joe Peel | 6' | 200 | Wilkes Barre, Penn. |
| G | Joe Gaddy | 5'9" | 175 | Winston-Salem, N. C. |
| QB | Jimmy Poole | 5'10" | 155 | Charlotte, N. C. |
| QB | George Jacobsen | 5'10" | 162 | Greensboro, N. C. |
| FB | Johnny Walker | 5'10" | 180 | Laurens, S. C. |
| FB | Bill Webb | 6'2" | 175 | Salisbury, N. C. |
| HB | Mickey Andrews | 6' | 175 | Greensboro, N. C. |
| HB | Sam Cathey | 5'10" | 175 | Statesville, N. C. |
| HB | Tommy Dews | 6'1" | 170 | Thomaston, Ga. |
| HB | Jim Phipps | 6'2" | 170 | Raleigh, N. C. |

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST

Hope To Avenge Opening Defeat

BY FORREST ROLES
Sports Staff Writer

The Wildcat baseball team travels to Meisenheimer, N. C. for its second scheduled game of the season. The 'Cats opened last Monday with an 11 to 1 loss to Pfeiffer here. “I don’t put too much stock in the importance of that game as an indicator of how we're going to do,” said Coach Tom Stevens. “I played it like an exhibition game—I just wanted to see what some of the new boys could do and how sharp my returnees were.” “For instance, I could have let Johnson go further (Sophomore Dave Johnson pitched two hitless innings), but I wanted (Jim) Moore to throw some.” “We haven't had time to really work the sophomores in yet. Also, we haven't practiced some game situations, and when they occur we look bad. The potential is here, but there hasn't been time for it to come out.” Despite the score, there were some bright spots in the Davidson nine. One was Johnson's pitching. Another was the almost flawless fielding, especially by Tom Whitley, who handled seven chances without an error, and started a snappy double play in the ninth. Earl Cole also looked good on the mound after a rocky start. “I’m not worried about us,” said a junior who had to watch his team’s bad season last year. “We fielded well and looked more like a team. Our pitching and batting will come around with some practice.”

'Cat Netmen Face U. of Michigan

This afternoon the Wildcat netmen took on a strong Michigan tennis squad in their third match of the season. The ‘Cats now have a 1-1 record. As usual, professed to know little about his opponents. “I think that they finished third in the Big Ten,” he said. Then he added, “They have four indoor courts and have been probably playing all winter.” On Monday the Cats opened their season with a heartening 5-4 win over Kent State. Fogleman, happy over the win, said, “You could almost call it an upset.” Although Kent State moved to an early 2-0 lead, the ’Cats moved back into contention and it was anybody’s match down to the final set of the last doubles contest. Following their victory over Kent State, the netters suffered a resounding 9-0 loss to George Washington on Wednesday. The match was never in doubt as the overmatched ‘Cat netmen were unable to chalk up a single victory.

UNC., N.C. PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Impala's BUDGET
Way, less per mile, less per day. You buy only the gas you need.*
We Feature Free Hotel and Airport Pickup and Delivery Service.
376-0213 301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte

Face Wildcat Linksters

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Sports Staff Writer

The Davidson College Golf Team opened their 1963 season Monday with a victory at the Dunes Club in Myrtle Beach, S. C. Playing medal play, the Wildcats took George Washington 114-64. The victory was almost an upset for the 'Cats since both The Citadel and Furman have strong conference teams. Low man for Davidson was sophomore Tom Romoda with a 76. Other linksmen making the trip were Bill Ross, Frank McPhillips, Mims Rogers, Mackey McClelland, and Dick Nickel. On Tuesday, playing match play, the Wildcats took George Washington.

HIGHWAY 29
SAT. NIGHTS: Buffet Supper American-Continental Foods 6:00 - 9:00 P.M.
Open 6 AM.-9 PM.
DANIA RESTAURANT
CONCORD, N. C.
WEDNESDAY NIGHTS: Golden Fried Chicken (2)
FRIDAY NIGHTS: “All the Fish You Can Eat”
Closed Mondays
$1.50
$1.50Wildcats won over the Citadel 10-8, over George Washington 10-2, and Washington once again 17-10. Low man for the team was Mims Rogers, a senior from Florence, Alabama, with a 77. Jim Cooper took Ross's place in this match. With this match, Davidson closed out Southern Conference action until May 7-8, when the ‘Cats will host the Conference tournament at the Dunes. The next match for the golfers will be with N.C. State in Raleigh on Tuesday. Bob Bost will join the team on this trip. With the fine play of four sophomores, Ross, McClelland, Romoda, and Cooper, the Davidson College Golf team is looking forward to a successful season this year and a possible SC title. Also, senior Haywood Evans will add strength to the golfers when he joins the team soon.

Coach Harry Fogleman, who, BASEBALL AND FOOTBALL TOGETHER? That's what it looked like Monday afternoon as spring football practice was in full swing, and the diamondmen were opening against Pfeiffer. Here BENNY COXTON (top), handling the team following a two-year vacation, makes a handoff to sophomore fullback, PAT FISHER. TOM WHITLEY (below) takes a healthy cut at the ball, but only succeeds in fouling it off. The ‘Cats lost the game 11-1. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Thinclads Open Season In Meet Wednesday

The track team opens their spring season this coming Wednesday with Catawba and Lenoir Rhyne. The meet will be held at Richardson Stadium and will begin at 3:30 p.m. Alan Turner, a sophomore from Greensboro, will lead the ‘Cats in the sprints. In the Southern Conference Indoor Track meet held earlier this year, Turner finished second in the 60-yard dash and was good for a fourth in the 70-yard low hurdles. He will be ably assisted outdoors by senior Bob Cordle in the 100 and 220-yard dashes. Sterling Martin will be out to break his school record of 9:39 for the 2-mile run, which he set in the ACC indoor meet two weeks ago. Martin will be backed up in the distance events by Tommy Heffner, Denny Phillips, and Ronnie Reese. Lenoir Rhyne is supposed to have a good team while Catawba is an unknown quantity. According to Whittle, the meet will be a real battle.

Lefty Coach Of The Year; Hetzel Cops Scoring Title

Coach C. G. (Lefty) Driesell has been named basketball coach of the year and Fred Hetzel has officially copped the scoring championship for the Southern Conference. This year marks the first season Davidson has even been the darling of the Southern Conference Sports Writers Association. The selection of Driesell marked the first time in history a Davidson coach had won the honor of being named top coach in its conference. Driesell, in his third season as coach at Davidson, brought his cagers to a second-place position in the Southern Conference this year. His team handed Duke one of its two regular season defeats. The Wildcats finished the past season with a 20-7 overall record. On Tuesday, Hetzel was officially recognized as the individual scoring champion of 1962-63 Southern Conference basketball. He is the first sophomore to take the scoring championship in more than a decade. He topped the league with 245 field goals. Rod Thorn had 214.

The Hub Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

Independents Tied In Basketball Race

BY RICK SMITH
Sports Staff Writer

There was little change in the intramural standings this week, but there was plenty of action. In the biggest game of the week, the Phi Delts upset the Sigs, 46-37. John Barrow and Phil Squier did almost all of the scoring for the Delts as they netted 22 and 18 points, respectively. Stu Burness led the Independents with 21 points.

MONDAY NIGHT
Independents 43 SAE 35
ATO 57 SPE 36
Beta 47 Sigma Chi 46

TUESDAY NIGHT
Phi Gam 59 Phi Delt 56
KA 50 Pika 37
Kappa Sig 43 Sigma Nu 24
Sigma Chi 37 ATO 35
Sigma Chi 38 Sigma Nu 31
Phi Delt 46 Independents 37
PiKapp forfeited to Kappa Sig

IM BASKETBALL STANDINGS
Team W L
Independents 9 1
Kappa Sigs 9 1
Phi Delts 7 2
Phi Gams 7 2
ATOs 7 3
Sigma Chis 6 5
Betas 5 5
KAs 4 6
SAEs 4 6
Sigma Nus 2 8
Pikas 2 8
Pi Kapps 1 7
SPEs 0 10

Mills Wrestling In NCAA Tourney

Junior Bill Mills, 167 lb. wrestler, left on Tuesday afternoon to enter the NCAA national wrestling tournament in Kent, Ohio. Mills earned a regular season record of 6-0, although he missed several matches because of an injured knee. Coach Charlie Parker, who went with Mills, said, “I don't expect him to do a great deal up there, but just watching those boys wrestle should improve his performance fifty percent next year.” The nationals began on Wednesday and run through Saturday, and are held on Kent State University campus. Mills has been elected team captain of the matmen for next year.

‘Cat Tankmen Sixth At S.C. Tournament

The Davidson College swimming team returned Sunday, March 10, from the Southern Conference Swimming Meet which was held in Charleston, S.C., at The Citadel. Although finishing sixth in the final conference standings, the sophomore-laden ‘Catfish came back home high-spirited with aspirations of a winning season next year. Coach Dwight Shoe stated: “The attitude of the boys was really great on the return trip from Charleston. With 13 sophomores returning next year, the team should have a good base to work with.”

Senior Captain Carter Mebane ended a very fine swimming career for the Wilmington native, who has been a consistent point-getter for the mermen. Sophomore Jim Grey took two fifth places, in the 1650 yd. freestyle and in the 500 freestyle. Another sophomore, John Alexander, took fourth in the 100 yd. backstroke. Junior Dick Fromm dived to a sixth-place finish, only 5 points out of 4th place. Randy Hughes, also a sophomore, failed to qualify but has looked good all year. Davidson's other qualifiers were the 400 yd. Medley Relay and the 400 yd. Freestyle relay, which finished fifth in both events.

Davidsonians meet at the famous Open Kitchen for a... Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina.