the Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

CAT BASEBALLERS SEEK FIRST WIN (See Page Three)

VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1963 NUMBER TWENTY

Vagabonds’ Cloud Clears: Secretarial Help Appears

BY BRITT SNIDER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

A patch of sunlight seems to be appearing on the graying future of the Vagabonds. Bill Trotter, a sophomore student representative to the Vagabond Governing Board, reports that secretarial assistance, long a problem for the group, has now been acquired by the college and that the student coordinators have agreed to remain until the end of the semester.

This, however, does not mean that all of the Vagabonds’ problems have been solved. Transportation, says Trotter, has been a problem all year. “We had understood we could get some method of transportation readily accessible to the drama department. This has not been provided and in many cases, had to be financed by Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz and several of the students.” He added that the most pressing need at present was a faculty member to direct a final production which the Vagabonds are hoping to undertake.

Trotter himself is busy preparing his NOVEMBER REQUIEM for presentation at the Drama Festival in Chapel Hill, April 4. The play, which concerns the tragedy of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 and the sacrifice of men dying for a hopeless cause, was one of four such plays chosen by the Carolina Dramatic Association as worthy of production. Since the festival is being held during spring vacation, Trotter has had some difficulty in casting. Only the lead has been officially determined, that being handled by Gerald Jones, a drama major from the University of Florida. Rehearsals will be held during spring vacation, and Trotter has asked that anyone interested in helping with it please contact him.

In other news in the drama department, two one-act plays, written by Davidson students, will be presented in Hodson Hall on March 27 and 28. The first, written by sophomore Smith McKeithen of Greenwich, Conn., is entitled “John” and deals with the significance of the last days of John the Baptist. The play is being directed by Tom Hamilton, a senior from Kinston, N. C. The second play, entitled “The Play of Man,” is written by Bill Hagen, a senior from Falls Church, Va. The cast consists of three prisoners, portrayed by Lewis Norman, a sophomore, Rick Brand, a sophomore, and Sidney Farrar, a freshman. The action revolves around their search for certainty and an answer to the problems they face. Directing this play is Pete Myers, a sophomore from Pensacola, Fla. Professor J. R. Gross is the faculty supervisor for the plays.

In still other news, Mr. R. J. Sailstad, chairman of the Vagabond Governing Committee, has announced the beginning of a short, non-credit course in theatre lighting and stagecraft. This course is open to all students, faculty members, and townspeople desiring to learn something about the fundamentals of theatrical lighting and production. Classes will be held at 7:30 on Tuesday evenings and at 4:00 on Wednesday afternoons and will continue for a period of about 2 or 3 weeks.

Sparse Vote Decides Five Student Contests

Voting was completed this week for members of the Honor Court, YMCA officers, cheerleaders, College Union president, and Freshman Adviser. The number of voters, however, continued to dwindle lower and lower as the week progressed.

Chosen to represent their respective classes on the Honor Court are Bob Dixon and Dave Lopp, rising seniors; Ronnie Reese and Mac Mays, rising juniors; and Jim Stokes and Britt Snider, rising sophomores. Each class elects two representatives who serve on the Court until graduation.

Joe Howell was elected to head the YMCA for 1963-64. He edged Doug Heidt in Tuesday's election, polling 162 votes to Heidt’s 119. Howell is presently serving on the YMCA board. He is also active in the Vagabonds and is a member of Beta Theta Pi. Other officers in the YMCA for next year are Steve Davidson, vice-president; Steve Gill, secretary; and John Good, treasurer. Davidson, from West Palm Beach, Fla., plays on the varsity football and swimming teams. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity. Gill, a Sigma Chi, is on the cross-country and track teams. He is from Newport News, Va., and is studying for the ministry. A native of Chambersburg, Penn., Good is a member of Beta Theta Pi. He is studying pre-med.

Warren is the new president of the College Union. He defeated Charlie Shapard and George Worthen in Wednesday's voting. Warren is now on the Union Board and is majoring in psychology. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity. This is the first year the election of the Union president has been open to the student body.

In today’s voting Tommy Stafford was elected next year's Freshman Advisor by the rising senior class. He polled 60 votes to Andy Sales’ 30. Stafford is presently serving on the Student Council. He is from Henderson, N. C., and is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

Alton Brown and Andy Sale were elected cheerleaders in today’s run-off. Both winners are KA’s. Brown is from Rock Hill, S. C., and Sale comes from Charleston, W. Va.

Next week’s voting will be for Student Council representatives. Long lists of nominations from all three classes are posted in the Union. The nominees have until 11:00 tonight to accept in writing. The candidates polling the highest number of votes are automatically named presidents of their respective classes, as well as members of the Student Council. Five rising seniors will be elected as representatives to the council, three rising juniors, and two rising sophomores.

Male Chorus Tour Begins Tomorrow

The Davidson College Male Chorus leaves by chartered bus on their annual spring concert tour tomorrow at noon. The tour will cover some 1600 miles in four states, including Kentucky, Indiana, Ohio, and Pennsylvania. The chorus of 29 men may present one of two programs, sacred or formal, at each stop on its itinerary, the program depending on where the concert is held. The sacred program features selections from the works of Palestrina, Poulenc, and Flor Peeters. This program will also include “Give Thanks Unto the Lord,” a short anthem written especially for the Davidson Male Chorus by Jerry Pietenpol, son of Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Davidson physics professor. The formal program includes selections from the whole of the white society, and particularly the church which claims to have society. In fact, Dr. Grant said that the very problem of the color of skin was being magnified ridiculously in this country to...

FIRST CLASS PIKAs — Pika Britt Snider accepts the Best for the next year, Stitt made the Ackerman, Baum, Stitt Prop Feet On Newly-Won Desks

Stitt Edges Pridgen In Run-Off Election

The new editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN is David Stitt; the editor of the 1964 Quips and Cranks is John Baum; and the new head of Scripts ‘n Pranks is Hank Ackerman. Voting for editor of THE DAVID...As follows: Wed- “to make us feel proud of hav- nesday: Stitt, 133; Bill Pridgen, ing had the opportunity of the 112; and Bill Ruth, 106; Tues- Davidsonian Experience.” day: Stitt, 222; Pridgen, 99. Ackerman stated that next Baum defeated Marty Lafferty year he will try to have three (27) and Bruce Steigner (40) regular issues and a special 25th with a total of 60 votes Wednes- anniversary issue, made up of day, and he defeated Steigner the best of Scripts ‘n’ Pranks 69-37 in the run-off yesterday. since 1937. There will be two Ackerman won the race for more issues this year. Ackerman Scripts ‘n’ Pranks editor 231-142 said that all these plans are over John Ariail Wednesday. “money pending.” He is also Staffs for the publications will trying to develop a nucleus not be chosen until after Spring which would remain the same Vacation. from one year to the next. In a statement on his plans Ackerman aims to combine the humorous and the literary following comment: “I appreci- aspects of the magazine and ate this chance to give Davidson make it a “magazine with an a good newspaper and I hope to identity.” He feels that the pro- live up to the expectations of gress which has been started those who supported my bid for this year should be continued. editor. We have an excellent “Our aim is to make Scripts ‘n’ staff nucleus to start with and Pranks a real product of should be going full force in Davidson students. In the past three or four weeks after some we don't believe it’s been this kinks get ironed out.” way.” Stitt believes that one solu- Wilson Fe Davidson College was tion for the problem of boring dates in this year’s competiti news is improvement of the amo Duvall, MacKay, ’60. The writing capabilities of the re- four awards brought Dav- porters. To do this, he plans to idson’s total number of Wood- set up a system whereby re- row Wilson Fellowship winners porters would be graded as to to 40 — more than any other the quality of their stories. The college in the South. And only stories would then be returned five Southern universities have with suggestions for their im- more winners than Davidson: provement. Duke, Johns Hopkins, U.N.C., U. After his election, Baum made of Texas, and Vanderbilt. this statement to The fellowships, much sought THE DAVIDSONIAN: “It is after by graduate students with a great deal of pleasure who plan careers as college that I undertake this responsi- teachers, cover tuition and fees bility. I hope and trust that the at the graduate school of the annual next year will measure student's choice plus a $1500 up to the high standards of stipend and dependency allow- those of the past.” His aim is, ance. Candi- through a balance of the formal dates must be nominated by a and the in- faculty member and then pass rigorous eliminations based on Chemist To Speak a written statement and two in- In Chapel Tuesday terviews. Dr. George K. Schweitzer, pro- Duvall, who was recently fessor of chemistry at the Uni- elected to Phi Beta Kappa, is versity of Tennessee, will speak serving as chairman of the Elec- in chapel Tuesday tions Board of the Student In addition to his chapel talk, Council. He is a math major, Schweitzer will lead a forum in and plans to do his graduate the Morrison Room of the Stud- work at the University of Geor- ent Union at 7 p.m. Tuesday on gia. the topic “Science and Genesis.” Llewellyn is also a math ma- The topic deals with the conflict jor and was elected to Phi Beta between science and “story” in Kappa last fall. He has been Genesis. elected also to ODK, honorary Schweitzer has a PhD in nu- leadership fraternity, and to clear chemistry from the Uni- TKA, honorary debating frater- versity of Illinois and is author nity. Llewellyn plans to do his of the book Radioactive Tracer graduate work at the University Techniques. He is presently of Virginia. working on his PhD thesis en- Wilson transferred to David- titled “The Hebrew-Christian son from Auburn University. Faith and the Origin of Modern An English major, he was Science” at New York Univer- elected to membership in Sigma sity Upsilon, honorary literary fra- “There is an unwarranted as- ternity. Wilson plans to attend sumption that science deals in graduate school at Duke or at faithless fact and that religion U.N.C. traffics in factless faith,” wrote MacKay received the AB de- Schweitzer in a letter to Time, gree cum laude from Davidson (July 13, 1962). in 1960 and was also graduated a Distinguished Military Stud- ent. He was elected to member- ship in Phi Beta Kappa. He com- pleted his Army active duty in January and will begin his grad- uate work this fall. Davidson College President D. Grier Martin said in announcing the 1963 Davidson winners, “We are proud of these Davidson students and Davidson's ever growing list of Woodrow Wilson Fellows. It is our hope that they will continue as decisively as possible toward the attain- ment of the PhD and that they will follow a career in college teaching, for they are not held to such a commitment. They are only asked to give college teaching serious consideration in these times when good col- lege professors are so much needed.” Pledge Class trophy from Steve Butler in chapel. A first place pledge project, coupled with earlier second places in both the pledge class scholarship average and Homecoming decoration categories clinched the top spot for the Pika pledges. (Staff Photo by McCutchen) College Readies informal discussion following vespers. On Monday, there will be a coffee hour in the Union after his assembly talk. From Davidson, Morton will go to Charlotte where he will attend a luncheon with Rep. Charles R. Jonas. The senator is a family friend of Carrell. Carrell worked at his state headquarters in Louis- ville last summer where he help- ed organize his campaign for the college vote. Morton has served on the Sen- ate Commerce Committee, and is now a member of the Senate Committee on Finance. From 1959 until 1961 Morton, as Na- tional Chairman of the Republi- can Party, was a member of the Cabinet. He was elected to Con- gress from Kentucky’s Third District in 1946, 1948, and in 1950. In 1953, President Dwight Eisenhower appointed him to the position of Under Secretary of State for Congressional Re- lations. This was the position he held until 1956 when he was elected senator. PEACE CORPS day. “I think we're taking a, two of the above selections molehill and blowing it up as if plus several folk songs, Negro it (race) made a difference in spirituals, and German drinking the fact a man were a Christian songs. Doug Heidt will be fea- or a heathen.” tured as a soloist on this pro- I then asked one question in gram. order to test whether or not This year will be the last year Dr. Grant actually did have the the chorus will tour during the courage of his convictions. time that school is in session. The question was simple, but Donald Plott, director of the revealing: “Would you at- Music Department and director tempt to keep out a black man of the Male Chorus, said that it who might try to worship in was becoming increasingly dif- your church?” ficult to get students excused The reply that came back from school for the period of time required for the tour. was a statement that integration is a sin (but that Therefore it is most likely that the acceptance of a Negro is the spring tour will be discon- not): “I don’t see how you can tinued in the future. deny any man, red or black, the The chorus will return to right to worship. Davidson on April 1, following “It isn’t your church.” the last concert in Pittsburgh. Lake Site Facilities As summer nears, the facili- ties at the lake site are nearing completion. The area should be ready for use during May. Scheduled for use then are a pier, a boat ramp, and a swim- ming area. The pier, already completed, will eventually be connected by a ramp to a floating dock with boat slips. Although the ramp is ready for use now, it will be necessary to put gravel on the road leading to it before boats can be driven on the road. The swimming area is near the boat- ing facilities and will consist of a small peninsula for picnicking and sun-bathing, a beach area separated from the water by a bulkhead, and a diving platform away from the bulkhead. A bath-house, which should be partially serviceable this May, will be finished, along with a well drilled nearby to supply water to the area. Four Davidsonians Win Fellowships re ted by four candi- dates in this year’s competiti on for Woodrow Wilson Fel- lowships, and all four are winners. Listed this week the nation’s 1200 winners were seniors Paul Bob Llewellyn, and David Wilson, along with Al Carrell.