FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1963 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Side Lights

IT’S IN THE HANDBOOK...

This week for the first time the effects will be felt. This rule, which is now in play, deals with academic probation. The rule states that any student not receiving grades which represent twelve semester hours and nine quality points at any grading report will be placed upon academic probation. Once a student is placed upon academic probation, he cannot be removed from this position until the end of the semester. Neither can he represent the college in any official capacity away from campus.

All of this is old news but it will soon become meaningful news, for the first grading period for freshmen ended yesterday. The place of extracurricular activities in a liberal arts college is a question that can be argued almost endlessly. In avoiding this, I will just say that I am personally of the opinion that extracurricular activities, including the wide variety of pursuits such as intramurals, student government, varsity athletics, dramatics, and many others, are a vital part of the college program ranking just behind academics.

If such is the case then what about the penalties imposed by the academic probation rule? Why is it that this rule levels its main sanctions at those men participating in extracurricular activities? These questions simply raise the issue: why, of two students who are placed on academic probation, is the student who is offering some contribution to the college penalized by prohibiting him from participation away from the campus? I can see the logic in requiring any such student to attend all classes and not to allow him to miss classes for any extracurricular event. But why is he legislated against representing the college?

All of the above has a very direct bearing upon athletics, especially freshman athletics. And yet what does the rule hope to accomplish? The present rule prevents a student on academic probation from dressing for away games but it does not prohibit his attendance at these games. In other words, the student is prevented only from being a participant in the contest or for that matter in any extracurricular event.

In my own experience, I have real doubts about the fairness of any rule that bases its penalties upon the results of one review. This is the situation that now confronts many of the freshmen. (How many of the students now at Davidson had a poor average in the first six weeks of work?) The problems of rush and adjustment have had their effect on more than a few freshmen. And for these problems, freshmen are to be excluded from off-campus extracurricular participation for the full semester.

I said earlier that the effects of this new rule will soon be felt and soon they will, for in the near future the freshman football team (whose entire schedule is played off-campus) will in all probability lose several players. These boys will be told it is all right to drink beer, date, or practice but it is in their interest that they not leave campus to represent and offer some contribution to the school. How come?

AND....

If the above seems to have little place on the sports page, then perhaps it can be explained by the fact that I have always disliked the sanctions of the academic probation rule. I make no claim to throw out this rule or to know all of the reasoning involved in its creation but I believe it needs careful review. And if the above sounds like a plea for special athletic privileges then I have not clearly presented what I feel. But make no mistake. It is a plea and even a protest — a rule which I believe unjustly penalizes a student who represents Davidson and in a small way contributes to this college’s total image.

AN ANSWER...

From the headlines of the past few weeks, it is obvious that the cross country team is having a reasonably successful season. Since cross country is not a particularly rewarding spectator sport, most people are probably unaware of the peculiar scoring system used to determine team position. From five to seven men on each team count in the scoring, each man receiving as many points as his place in the race. The judges total the number of points of the first five men on each team and the lowest score wins. For example, against The Citadel last Saturday the ’Cats took the first five places for a perfect score of 15—the lowest score possible. The sixth and seventh men can count in the scoring only if they finish ahead of the opponents’ fifth man; their position in the race adds points to the opponents’ score. Thus the “pushers” can often be the difference between victory and defeat in a close race.

The need for teamwork can be seen in Furman’s loss to West Virginia last fall in the Conference meet. Although Furman had the first three places, and their fourth man was in the top ten, they lost to W. Va. because their fifth man added around twenty-five points to the score, allowing a tightly-bunched Mountaineer squad to take the meet. Cross country has been defined to be “a team sport in which verbal and visual encouragement plays a strategic part in overcoming physical and mental fatigue.” In short, this is a participant sport.

Defeat Citadel Bullpups

With a solid team effort and a Jake Jacobsen-to-Tom Dews pass in the waning moments of the game, Davidson's Wildkittens managed a 21-14 victory last Thursday night. The game, played at Union, S.C., and sponsored by the local Kiwanis club, was the first Davidson victory in the pups’ football team. Both Maj. R. W. Pierce and Capt. Don Campbell, the Freshman coaches, stressed the desire and hard play of the entire team and were hesitant to single out any players as outstanding. “I know it sounds corny,” smiled Captain Campbell, “but this was just a case of overall team effort winning a ball game. With our two platoon system, all of the twenty-five players had a part in this win.”

In a classical football manner, the game was close and hard-fought. Citadel scored early after Davidson was forced to punt. The Wildkittens took over and in a series of downs managed to score, the Jacobsen-to-Dews-with-Randolph-converting combination clicking again. Barely thirteen seconds remained in the game, but that sufficed to send a scare through the Davidson bench.end, open in the end zone, batted a long pass around on his fingertips for a moment before dropping it and his glory. The hectic last seconds of the game found Davidson still on top, 21-14. Major Pierce started to praise the play of quarterbacks Tommy Halfback Mike Nemir every place at once,” in words of Fogleman. It was Nemir and Fred Schoen who bottled up Duke's top scorer. Center Schoen already has eight goals, one short of his school record of nine set last year. Tarby Bryant and Lyman Dillon both played highly commendable defensive games. It was Bryant's best game of the year. Dillon played all but ten minutes of the game. 

The Citadel Frosh, under the sponsorship of several years over the Bull- Leslie and Jake Jacobsen, halfbacks Tom Dews and Jim Phipps, and end Jim Richardson, made few mistakes. Sophomore Gus Brown at fullback had another consistent, sure-footed game. Other sophomores in the fray were Louis Foss and Ben Nzengu. Bekman scored his fifth goal of the season with some perfectly timed footwork during the first period. The freshman team next faces Gardner-Webb on Nov. 2, and Davidson Dumps Duke To Remain Undefeated.

BY JIM BULLA

It was the 'Cats all the way Tuesday. Duke fans called it an upset; Davidson fans (mostly Davidson alumnae in graduate school) just laughed and said that Duke is “It was definitely a team victory,” said Coach Harry Fogleman. The excellent crosses from the outside set up fellow Richard- son Scholar Simon Henson in the second period. On Monday, Davidson plays N.C. State here at 3 p.m. The ‘Cats are favored by two goals, but “Benito” and the "Pack won’t be pushovers. Passes were accurate as the ball was continually booted into the mouth of the cage. A limey-to-limey combination accounted for the other Davidson goal. Englishman Allan Arthurs set up the play.

Healthy ‘Cats Seek Victory In Richmond

BY JIM BEASLEY

Well-rested after a two-week layoff, the Wildcats left at noon today for the University of Richmond and tomorrow's football game with the Spiders. The ‘Cats are in much better physical condition than they were two weeks ago when they tied VMI 10-10. No key personnel will miss the trip. Except for lingering bruises, the squad is in good shape. The system of alternating teams used so effectively against VMI will be continued against the Spiders. Under this system, two teams of equal strength play five minutes and rest five minutes. Besides keeping the squad in better condition during the games, Coach Dole adds, “This system has produced excellent competition among the players with resulting higher performance from all.” Hopes are high as the favored Wildcats seek their first win of the season. Coach Dole commented with guarded optimism, “The least I can promise is a good football game.”

The Spiders’ 1-3 record is deceptive. Two of the losses were to Southeastern Conference teams: Tennessee, 7-35, and Florida, 35-28. Their last game was a loss to Mississippi Southern, 7-0. All of these games were played away from Richmond. In their only home game so far, they defeated East Carolina, 10-7. Last year here at Davidson, the Spiders won 28-20. Richmond returns 22 lettermen from that team. In the 19-game series with Richmond, Davidson has won 7 and tied once. Coach Bill Dole reports all aspects of the ‘Cats’ game are improved. Most weaknesses displayed in previous games have hopefully been corrected. Davidson's defense faces a strong test tomorrow as Richmond runs a wide variety of offenses, including an I formation. Major Pierce presents the outlook for a victory as good.

The Wildkittens came right back with Jimmy Poole’s 45-yard run on an option play. William Randolph’s conversion made it 7-6. For most of the rest of the half, the pigskin traded hands, with neither team being able to penetrate the other's twenty-yard line. But immediately before the half, Jacobsen passed to Dews for a touchdown, and with Randolph again converting, Davidson took a 14-6 halftime lead into the dressing room. In the third quarter, Citadel scored again, and the pass for conversion knotted the score. Until 1:56 remained in the game, the two teams battled it out but were unable to score.

The Unkind ‘Cats Mash The Citadel Badly

Hardly playing the role of the gracious guests, Davidson's cross-country team trounced The Citadel in a two-way meet last Saturday, 15-41. Davidson’s harriers captured the first five places in swamping an outclassed Citadel contingent. Coach Heath Whittle was again pleased with an “unusually good” effort as his proteges took their second consecutive victory against a narrow opening loss to Wake Forest. Ronnie Reese captured first place in an exceptionally tight finish, running the course in 22:14. Within two seconds of the winning time, John Barrow and Tommy Heffner both crossed the line. Fourth place was taken by Andy Little, who made his first appearance in a varsity meet, and Denny Phillips completed the sweep by finishing half a minute later. Harry Blakeslee, once again placing for Davidson, took tenth. This afternoon Davidson plays host to a strong Furman team and Coach Whittle looked on that encounter with little optimism. “Potentially,” he said, “They're a lot stronger than us, but we're out to beat them nevertheless.” Furman returns about three men from last year’s team, which placed second in the conference, and some good sophomores should add depth. Following today’s meet, next Tuesday the team will journey to Richmond to meet Richmond and Old Dominion, both strong competition.

IT’S THAT TIME OF YEAR AGAIN as the freshman basketball team began workouts Tuesday. Here BARRY ST. CLAIR puts up a left-handed effort as DENNY KNIGHT performs under the eye of head coach Driesell. (Staff Photo by Chatterjee)

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

For details mail coupon to...
Blue Cross Blue Shield
HOSPITAL CARE ASSOCIATION
DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA

Please send me information on the Blue Cross-Blue Shield STUDENT CERTIFICATE.

Name
City

It's from Colgate-Palmolive. Non-greasy CODE 10 disappears in your hair, gives it the clean, manly look that inflames women, infuriates inferior men! Be in. Let new CODE 10 groom your hair all day, invisibly. Only your hair knows it’s there! It's invisible, man! You can’t see it. She can’t feel it. Only your hair knows it’s there! CODE 10 for men, the new invisible hairdressing.