Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1963

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Administrative Underachievement

We have almost reached the stage of teeth-gnashing and breast-beating in our frustration with the continuing lack of progress being made by the Davidson College library. It is a readily admitted fact that Davidson’s library is “not what it should be.” But the not-so-readily admitted fact is that virtually nothing is being done to remedy the situation. Either through oversight or laziness, Davidson has only been able to add 22,500 volumes to the library since 1958. Talk about under-achievement!

First, a few statistics — published in 1960, but significant nonetheless. Bear in mind that Davidson now has 1,000 students and 100,000 volumes, but also remember that the other schools have made similar strides toward improvement. See statistics in the box below.

Needless to say, Davidson finds herself in a very embarrassing position. Proclaiming to be a strong liberal arts college and yet possessing the most inferior library among so-called “good” schools seems to be a pretty basic contradiction. This contradiction has been “explained” and apologized for, but the fact remains that someone(s) must take the blame for our book deficiency.

It is rather ironic that the students are begging the Hill to put more books in the library. After all, we’re supposed to be spending all our time at after-dance parties, up the road, watching TV, playing bridge, or just generally under-achieving. Admitted, the poor library is not the cause for rampant under-achievement, but the available selection in the library is certainly not conducive to over-achieving. Any kind of advanced research is virtually impossible, especially in the fields of history and English literature. And the Bible and religion section is unimaginatively stocked, to say the least.

In a very real sense, the library should be the laboratory for the liberal arts student, especially those studying the humanities. And, in this respect, the biology, chemistry, and physics students are much more adequately equipped in their respective laboratories. It should also be remembered that students in the scientific disciplines also have need for a well-stocked library. Knowledge of previous theories, experiments, and accomplishments is essential to the science student if he hopes to do any creative research of his own. In this respect too, the Davidson library is inexcusably poor.

The most appalling bit of foolishness is the College’s amazing ability to spend large sums of money where they are not needed, or where the need is minor compared to that in the library. A new wing is now being added to the College Union. Result: more dining-room space, better pool tables, wider selection in the Stud, and more space to play games. Oh yes, and the Kimbrough shop will have a new home here. Splendid! And, as if this new wing weren’t enough, the Board of Benefactors was recently informed that “plans are in process for the renovation and modernization of the main Union structure in the near future.” Now, if we ever get a moment to relax, at least we will be able to do it in style.

We are well aware of the problems involved in raising money to ensure the continued growth of the College. And we are aware that gifts for endowment and the library are much harder to procure than those sums which erect tangible additions to the physical plant bearing the benefactor’s name. We are certainly grateful to the Danas, the Loves, the Ovenses, the Richardsons, and all the other people who have expressed their interest in a better Davidson with their specific gifts and bequests. But can additions to the physical plant be justified when the most important educational organ of the College—the library—is so visibly inferior? We think not.

Excuses for the failure to improve the library are numerous, and most of them are invalid. Some meager progress has been made, primarily with money made available by the Dwelle Fund, which, while one of the most noble bequests in recent years, is simply not enough to carry out the tremendous job that needs to be done. It has also been said that the library does not have the staff to catalogue and shelve $400,000 worth of books. Well, it seems to us that $400,000 would also help to “buy” some additional permanent staff members. In short, dollars will do just about anything you want them to do in this particular case.

And so it seems that everything boils down to two lamentable facts: 1) Davidson College has a pitiful library and has no money to bring it up to par; and 2) No all-out, concerted effort has or is being made to do anything significant about this. Mr. Robert Sailstad has been quick to assure us that “the College has always, without fail, given highest priority to basic educational needs—endowment for teachers’ salaries and for the library, and the library has had top priority for the past seven years.” Well, if this be true, where are the results of such a dedicated quest for educational funds?

We are weary of hearing boasts from the Hill about the very mediocre progress that has supposedly been made toward improvement of the library. How can you boast about a mere 22,500 volumes in the past five years? And, please, no more excuses. You have had to make no excuses about shortcomings in the physical plant, simply because you have worked diligently to provide us with everything we need in that area. Now use your energy to get on the proverbial stick and bring us $400,000 with which we can buy a decent library and equip it with an adequate staff. Fill that new $200,000 wing you keep telling us about when we ask what is being done about the library. Admitted, it will not be an easy task. Most benefactors would rather carve their name on a building than print it in a book. Regardless, we feel certain that somewhere in this great free-enterprise land of ours there are people who recognize the importance of a good library and have the wherewithal to help us. Approach every possible foundation and philanthropist whose business it is to provide such funds. Steps must be taken now. If you wait much longer, you might as well make plans to convert the vacant one-half of the library into a handball court and give up your goal of attaining full Ivy-Leaguedom. If it comes to this, the chances are pretty good that some friend of the College will be glad to fix it up real nicely as a memorial or something.

It is indeed hard to believe that Davidson College, that up-and-coming Ivy-clad institution, that dedicated producer of 250 whole men every June, can look a student or an educator or an administrator or a scholar from any other institution in the country straight in the eye and say, “We can give our men a good, complete liberal arts education, even though we do have a sub-standard library.” Can you really, Gentlemen?

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF David Stitt
BUSINESS MANAGER Rick Finch
Associate Editors Tim Kimrey
News Editor Jim Downey
Bill Ruth
Photography Editor Joe McCutchen
Jeff Wampler
Photographers Sam Smith
Romir Chatterjee
Managing Editors Charles Dibble
Cartoonists Dan Adams
Charles Ramberg
Johnny Wright
Assistant Editor Rick von Unwerth
Rufus Hallmark
Assignments Editor John Todd
Feature Editor Tom Loflin
Sports Editor Rick Lowery
Assistant Sports Editor Bob Strauser
Paul van den Berg
Assistant Bus. Manager Charlie Smith
Advertising Manager Irvine Welling
Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane

Contributors This Week: Harry Carr, Bill Aitken, George Fain, Bill Norfleet, Rufus Adair, Don McKinnon, Charles Edwards, Bill Hufford, John Bailey, David Coffey, Fred Sackett, Britt Snider, Allen Webb, Bob Holladay, Tom Vinson, Johnny Clark, Greg Govan, Bill Briggs, Forrest Roles, Eric Nichols, David Powell, and Jim Beasley.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

How To Succeed Without Trying

MONDAY NIGHT FIRST I WENT TO THE CONSERVATIVE CLUB MEETING AND BROWNED MY POLI SCI PROFESSOR, AND THEN I WENT TO THE REYNOLDS LECTURE.

FRIDAY NIGHT I’LL TRY TO SIT THROUGH SOME OF THE ORGAN RECITAL TO HELP MY MUSIC 41 GRADE.

WITH MY PHYSICS TEACHER. TO GET IN GOOD I WENT TO THE SOCCER GAME WHICH GOT ME TWO CUTS IN PE. I DROPPED BY “OPEN END” JUST FOR SOME EXTRA INSURANCE WITH MY...

By Hallmark

TUESDAY NIGHT I SHOWED UP FOR FRENCH CLUB TO POLISH THE OL’ “POMME” FOR MY FRENCH PROF. DAVIDSON ISN’T REALLY SUCH A TOUGH SCHOOL. YOU JUST GOTTA KNOW HOW TO THINK.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

NSA Issue Protagonists Offer Pre-Vote Remarks

Spratt

Dear Editor:

Monday the student body will have its chance to speak out on NSA. This is probably one of the first referendums to be held at Davidson in a number of years. The student council is publishing a statement which I hope everyone will have the opportunity to read and examine before voting. In view of this statement, what I say here will be brief and to a particular point.

Specifically, I hope that the student body will not act whimsically Monday. I hope that no one will vote as a lark or vote merely to join up with the crusade to ride NSA out of Davidson. I am not trying to overdramatize the referendum or make villains of those who oppose NSA. Frankly, this is not a life-or-death affair for the Student Council, and we can, in fact, operate without NSA. If we disaffiliate with NSA as a result of the referendum, there will be little change in the day-to-day concerns of student government. We can argue the drinking question or protest parking tickets with equal facility.

But in the overall picture, in the long run, NSA will make a difference at Davidson, and those of us who have participated in it recognize this fact. Mainly, the contribution of NSA will come in attitude and perspective gained by those involved in student government, though there will be also the benefits of ideas, source materials, and programs which we can develop from NSA. The specifics can be better treated in a lengthier statement. I merely hope the student body realizes what is at stake. This is not just a popular referendum for the hell of it, for the fireworks and soap-box oratory. The outcome may well affect the quality of the student government Davidson is to have.

John Spratt

Freeny

Dear Editor:

John Spratt has pointed out, and rightly so, that “no one has claimed that the NSA has been a dynamic organization on the Davidson campus.” The claim, in fact, has been that NSA is dead at Davidson. By an agreement last year between Spratt and Carrell, the NSA was relegated to the position of an indirectly influential organization. The problem is with the word influential. I admit that it is indirect—what else is there to do with no direct evidence of it? But it is so indirect that the “long list of specific benefits” potentially enjoyable by the campus are still unenjoyed and potential. They have been for some time.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and there is little sign of materialization, as we have been promised for the last three stagnant NGA years. Perhaps, then, in this final stage of the NSA question, one should ask why the NSA has so utterly failed to produce any significant or tangible results at Davidson. The answer has already been given: because the NSA has become so fascinated with socio-political questions, it has become ineffective both as a sounding board for student opinion and as an organization dealing with the problems of student government. The problem is, then, that the NSA cannot be both a political platform for student opinion and, simultaneously, an effective, even remotely objective student government association. This does not mean that such an organization could not exist. It means that the NSA is not such an organization and without radical reforms can never be one. Such reforms, however, are very remote. The question finally becomes one of the retention of membership. Why should Davidson continue to be a member of the NSA? The indirect benefits are remote and hard to find. It may be a broadening influence for those who attend the conventions, but we can broaden our outlooks without this type of association and affiliation. Spratt admits that the “NSA is not the solution to all of our problems.” Rather, he feels, "It is the best that we have.” But why settle for less. I believe that we can do better. It is not a question of sour grapes, but of ‘no grapes at all. Pat Freeny Ivey

Dear Editor: Before we roll the NSA on Referendum Day, as you poetically threatened in a recent editorial, I hope that your readers will take a moment to reflect on the real issues involved in the controversy. A chief criticism of the organization has been its lack of direct relevance to the selfish Davidson student. This appears to me to be a misunderstanding of the purpose of the NSA. It's not intended to be a “super student council” in which we all can participate. Neither are the innovations which it prompts to be branded “NSA inspired.” The NSA is rather an association of student councils—for the benefit of member councils, for whatever they can gain from membership. And if our student council believes that it profits from this membership, then let’s give them the opportunity. Our council obviously wants continued participation in the NSA. Our most recent Student Council presidents—both reasonably intelligent individuals, certainly capable of understanding the proper functioning of their special organization—have encouraged Davidson’s membership. Perhaps we aren't personally aware of every contribution the NSA has made to Davidson. But if our Student Council and its leaders believe that they’ve functioned more efficiently or more confidently because of it, certainly each of us should be willing to let them use one sixty-seven thousandth of our annual fees to let them continue. Even though the NSA’s constitution liberally states that its political views are not necessarily representative of member institutions (e.g., Davidson), I think that perhaps this political issue is the real source of local opposition. And, this being the case, the rotten tomato in the Union showcase should be replaced. As a tribute to the tomato’s donor, I suggest a bunch of sour grapes. Bob Ivey

Reflection ALONE ON A CRACKLE-RUG: INDIAN RICHARDSON SCHOLAR QUESTIONS HIS CAMPUS ROLE BY ROMIR CHATTERJEE

Fall has come and almost gone, they say — and I — alien amidst the fallen leaves. The dry, yellow and the dry brown — the call of the Hub and I am crashing through the brown crackle towards Main Street. All paths seem to lead through the brown crackle. Pleasant, very pleasant, when you are walking, to know that you are walking — and that only happens when you stomp across this crackle-rug. I've never walked across a crackle-rug before. And when I stroll across the yellow and brown, I feel delightfully foreign. And that starts me thinking. It is strange to be a foreigner, especially when you've never been one before. How shall I explain my native ways? (And explain I must; all foreigners have explanations to make!) The fog must be cleared; I must convey the idea that even in the sweltering heat, the dirt, the flies, the diseases of the tropics, we can be “good guys” (“Are we?”, I ask myself, knowing that this trend of thought will lead me from one dilemma to another). And soon I am toying with ambassadorial “bull” . . . about our being very sympathetic to America, and the common “cause” . . . FREEDOM! Yes, how devoted we are to the “cause” and—stinking rich America. FREEDOM. Should I suggest, oh, so gently, that neutrality is freedom? Cogitation continues... There's the confounded caste system of which I am required to speak of knowledgeably and pass judgment on: and the sacred cow (MOO, MOOO!); and the economic hurdles we must cross; and underdevelopment (a word that only seems to connote rickets, prominent rib cages and haunted, deep-sunken eyes); and birth control for our population explosion (I begin tending inevitably toward cliches); and — the heralds sound their clarion call at this point — CHINA! ! ! How bloody illogical of us (the mysterious ways of the East!), in fact, downright demented of us to persist over her admission to the United Nations. Then, there’s Goa . . . how in heaven shall I, should the need arise, defend or, tear to shreds an age old Indo-American conversation piece — V.K.K.M. — to avoid using that ugly word: Menon. My progress across the crackle-rug, by now has come to a painful stop. The responsibilities of playing the part of unofficial ambassador weigh heavy upon me. I am at the point of yelling, in a state of complete distraction. Whitman’s line, adapted: “Christ! that I was in my lover’s arms, And I, AT HOME, AGAIN...“ But this burst of poetic rhetoric doesn’t seem to help very much. I am still befuddled and bewildered by my thoughts — waiting for the breath-giving inner realization, the moment of truth, the revelation — bla, bla, bla —. The depression persists. How utterly futile to try to convey an accurate picture of the homeland (simply: millions of dark faces looking up into what should be light, but isn’t). Hell, I can’t tell them that, I say to myself; that’s just expressionistic bull — no place for that sort of an idea in this ambassadorial capacity. I am wobbly at the knees. But, getting hold of myself. I stop what may well result in an epileptic fit. “Forget it,” I say, wiping the foam from my mouth, and moving on. Two steps forward. — plod, CRASH — plod, CRACKLE YES, DAMMIT.— CRACKLE! ! ! Thank God for the crackle-rug! I’m off, once again, crashing through the yellow and brown . . running wildly, impulsively across the good ol’ crackle-rug. On to the Hub! Once again, feeling delightfully alien, amidst the fallen leaves.

On NSA: Sackett Asks Responsible Response BY FRED SACKETT

On Monday the student body will decide the question of Davidson’s continued membership in NSA. This referendum will serve, to a great degree, as a reflection of student awareness of campus issues and affairs. Will it be a reflection of a mature and responsible attitude? Is there such an attitude among the Davidson student body? The college catalogue makes this statement about it. “The tradition of student government is deeply rooted at Davidson. Recollections of collective action by students in the area of self-government reach back to the undergraduate days of the oldest living alumni . . . Through its officers, elected by their fellows, students at Davidson largely control affairs of the campus.” And the Wildcat Handbook says in relation to encouraging student awareness and responsibility, “the real challenge during the next four years will be to participate as well as spectate, to contribute as well as receive, to develop depth as well as breadth. You're not bound over to the customs of the college. If you don’t like them, speak out, stand up, object; but do more than object. Criticism is rife at Davidson; the creative contributor is unique.” You may laugh, and say these statements are a farce——some college propaganda. But if you laugh, are you not laughing at yourself? How responsible have we shown ourselves to be? Can we name the members of the council we helped elect, if we voted; have we ever consulted them on issues, or made recommendations for action? Do we even read the articles in THE DAVIDSONIAN on Student Council meetings and deliberations? Do we show positive awareness to the student council of constructive opinions? It is sad to say, but the answer is NO. The petition for a referendum is one of a very few petitions in the last several years, and I speak in favor of the question of NSA being raised. It has created an awareness in the student body that we are in NSA. It has created an issue on campus. It is giving the student body a chance to show its responsibility in weighing the evidence presented. But will our vote reflect a THOROUGH KNOWLEDGE of the subject? And will our vote show that this awareness has been created for nothing, if we do not continue our membership? How many of us know that there are now 384 member colleges, and these include Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Agnes Scott, etc.? That in our own region of Virginia, North and South Carolina, there are 33 member colleges, including Duke, Carolina, N.C. State, W.C., Queens, Hollins, and Sweet Briar? John Spratt has outlined the advantages of the Student Government Informational Service library, the material available on political issues, the Educational Travel Inc. and Polback. We also gain much as a member of the Regional NSA, and show to other schools that Davidson exists by attending and taking part in the assemblies and conventions, such as the one in Raleigh this weekend. A criticism has been that the student body does not share all the benefits, or is aware of them. Isn't this lack of awareness due in part to us, or do we have to be spoon fed on everything that goes on? Can’t we find out some things for ourselves? Are we aware of the advantages received from other national organizations by the local members, such as THE DAVIDSONIAN? Yes, by the ideas and better work we receive from things learned by the members and officers of these organizations. Isn’t the Student Council improved in a like manner, enabling them to do a better job for us? And then the big issue is that of the radical political stand taken by NSA. Or is the stand so radical, once one finds out more than the few controversial ones? Certainly it is not a conservative organization. But are we to withdraw—“gather our marbles and go home"—merely if we are in a minority and the organization doesn’t express our exact opinion? These issues and debates help us, as students, become aware of the issues of our time, political and social. We can’t withdraw into four years of “isolation,” especially at a liberal arts college. And if we are such champions of “conservatism,” are we helping its cause in NSA by pulling our voice out? John Spratt, speaking of the membership and benefits of NSA, said, “Perhaps these ideas won't change the face of Davidson, but they will add significantly to the college.” If careful consideration of the issue is given, can't we easily see $30 worth of benefits in a year? Let us hope the student body will weigh the evidence, and exercise its responsibility—not just vote it out as a fluke. Which way will you vote on Monday, and what will the results show?