FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1963

Side Lights
BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor

“WERE YOU THERE... ?”

In 1934 Davidson College played its first intercollegiate soccer game. Their opponent was Duke. Playing on this same Duke squad
was Harry Fogleman. Monday Harry Fogleman coached and another generation played as Davidson’s 1963 soccer team picked up this year's
first fall victory. Attending this season’s opener was a crowd estimated at about 700 including a healthy contingent of Belmont
Abbey fans (not only male but female). Briefly during the halftime break the crowd stole the action from the field
as both the Davidson and Abbey freshmen participated in a semi-peaceful exchange of beanies. The whole exchange featured a lot
of running, yelling and even a few kicks and blows. But it fell woefully short of the action provided by
the game.

Using a two platoon system, Davidson kept the ball in Belmont territory for a great part of the afternoon. Although
the opening minutes were a little ragged, the remainder of the game saw Davidson organize and control their offensive play
to an extent seldom seen in soccer games in this area. Perhaps the most impressive feature of Monday’s debut was
the overall strength of the team from front line to goalie, and not only was this strength evident in the
starting outfit but also in the replacements. In fact, to a rookie like myself, it was difficult to distinguish between
starters and substitutes.

A PAUSE...

Soccer is a game played by eleven players. Although I’ve watched it for five years there are still some instances
which make it confusing. The team is divided into a line, made up of two wings (right and left), two
inside forwards (right and left) and a center forward. This is the front edge of the offensive attack. The next
division is that of the halfbacks who trail the line. The third division is the fullback position, made up of
a left, right and center fullback. Completing the lineup of course is the goalie.

Perhaps a word might be said about a few of the penalty calls which commonly take place. The first thing
to notice is that there are no time outs except for injury. Perhaps the most confusing of the offensive calls
is that of offsides. Briefly, this is a judgment call on the part of the official. He makes the call
in a situation in which the deepest defensive player (excluding goalie) is between the offensive man (with the ball) and
the goal. In such a situation, the offensive team is allowed one man between the defensive man and the goal
but this man is not to be a part of the play, i.e., the offensive man with the ball cannot
pass to him; if he does the ball is given to the defense.

Another judgment call is that of hitting a ball with hands or arms. Davidson's first goal Monday came when Fred
Schoen deflected a ball off of his arm into the net. In soccer a man is not allowed to strike
the ball intentionally with his arms. Any instance in which a man’s arms are extended from his body and strike
the ball is ruled intentional but if the arms are inside the sides of the body (either in front or
in back), the referee must use his discretion in ruling whether contact was made intentionally or not. In Monday’s game,
Schoen in the judgment of the official had not intentionally used his arms to deflect the ball.

Another technicality which produced a lot of yelling Monday was the ruling on a ball fielded by the goalie. The
goalie is allowed a free kick or pass anytime that he has the ball in his possession, but he must
have the ball in his possession. At least twice in the Abbey game, the Belmont goalie fielded a kick only
to bobble the ball. In such an instance, the ball is free and the goalie is fair game. And fair
game he was, for both times Davidson’s Fred Schoen went for the ball (once turning it into a goal) and
the goalie. Such a play often raises the shouts from the crowd but it works both ways and is probably
one of the clearest indications of alert, aggressive play by the offensive team.

Perhaps the above statements have been so elementary as to be useless but without an understanding of these situations, soccer
can appear almost mystic. Today Davidson goes after its second win against Guilford College. And next Wednesday the University of
North Carolina is at Davidson in a game which should provide a test to determine just how good Davidson's soccer
team is.

EXCELLENCE

In 1961 Davidson resumed soccer on the intercollegiate level, after a break of 11 years for World War II. In
that first season the total goals scored by the Davidson team was four. Monday Fred Schoen topped this total by
one. I’m sure there must be a slang word for a “hat trick” plus two but it escapes me. Monday
was just Captain Schoen's day. So far this year the sport’s page has failed to pick a Wildcat of the
week, if there was one this week Fred Schoen would unquestionably be that man. To score five goals in a
single game is an almost unheard of accomplishment. To be sure, Schoen was not solely responsible for these goals. Time
after time Davidson’s wings Allan Arthurs and Ben Nzengu crossed the ball in front of the Abbey goal giving Davidson
the best wing play it has had in years. One of Schoen’s goals was set up by a perfect in-bounds
kick by fullback Glenn Haines. There were other factors and men who figured in the scoring, but no credit should
be detracted from Schoen. Not only did he convert his various chances but his aggressive, alert play made defense a
headache for the Abbey all afternoon. In fact Schoen played Monday as if he expected Davidson to score each time
they had the ball. Fred Schoen had a lot of help Monday but he played to score. Not only personally
but as a part of a team. So if he had a lot of help, he certainly gave a lot
of help. Any performer of this kind demands respect.

WHICH SEASON?

This week the tennis team completed their fall elimination tournament. The survivors of this tournament found new hope and potency
in Phil Squier, Little Al...

THAT'S CAPTAIN FRED SCHOEN IN THE MIDDLE getting the five finger sign from the soccer team. (Staff Photo by Sam
Smith)

Rain & Rain & More Rain & Too Much Citadel-Oooh
BY JIM BEASLEY

Tomorrow Davidson will still be looking for its first win of the season as they take on a VMI team
which is rated strongest in the conference. To have a chance at success, the Wildcats will have to prevent the
repetition of errors which have cost them heavily in all three games this year, most recently against The Citadel last
Saturday. However, Davidson errors are not the only explanation for the most recent loss. The ‘Cats limited depth was simply
not enough to contain the three teams used by The Citadel. As Coach Bill Dole explained sadly, “The Citadel football
program gives 22 full scholarships a year as compared to our nine.”

The Cadet margin was 7-0 at halftime on a touchdown by Wes Matthews in the first quarter—a scoring play set
up by a Davidson fumble at their own 31. The only serious drive by the Wildcats was halted at the
Citadel four after a first and goal at...

Cross Country Team Extends Wake Forest
BY DAVID POWELL

“I hate to alibi,” murmured Coach as he watched his harriers narrowly lose, “but if we had Little in there,
we’d have won.” Little, who has been in contention for the top spot on the team, developed water on the
knee last week, but his teammates still succeeded in pursuing Wake Forest until the finish. A scant five points separated
winner from loser, 26-31. Ronnie Reese, who held the halfway lead, was the first man to cross the line for
Davidson, trailing Taylor of Wake Forest by less than a hundred yards. Tommy Heffner, kicking in across the edge of
the soccer field, narrowly missed overtaking...ing the third-place man Albie Rushing of Wake Forest. Then, to add a little comic
relief and casual atmosphere, “Goose” Barrow glided across the line in ninth place, a scant yard or two in front
of a determined black-and-gold pursuer. Coach Whittle was highly pleased with Davidson's performance, especially against a “subsidized” team like Wake
Forest. “The boys,” he said, “are in a lot better shape than we thought." Times were particularly good for this
early in the season, partially because of the good running conditions.

Frosh Footballers Tackle L&M In Saturday's Opener:
BY BOB STRAUSER

Tomorrow a not-so-tame group of Davidson 'Kittens' journeys to Lees McRae for the opening game of the Freshman football season.
Coaching the freshmen will be Major Pierce and Captain Campbell of the Davidson ROTC department. These two titans of the
tin soldiers will be assembling all the artillery they can muster for the clash. Lees McRae will be placing an
offensive unit on the field that has already played three games; in addition, they will be playing before a homecoming
crowd. The Davidson offense, essentially the same offense used by the varsity, will probably show the lack of game experience.
Offensive smoothness can only be gained by playing, and this is the area where the ‘Kittens’ come out on the
short end. The tentative starting lineup will have Gary Waldron at center, Joe Peel and Joe Gaddy at guards, John
Fagg and Carl Corter at tackles, Gary Rikard and Mike Gibbons at ends. In the backfield, Jake Jacobsen will be
at quarterback, Tom Dews at right half, Jim Phipps at left half, and John Walker at fullback. Campbell summed up
the offense with “We will try to move the ball on the ground and throw occasionally to keep the defense
honest.” The next game will be at the Citadel next Thursday.

KA’s And Kappa Sigs Lead Flickerball Loop,
This week the “impotent” Phi Delt and Dirty Dave Stitt. The Independents and the SAE’s have agreed to replay their
disputed game. While the Beta defense faltered, the ATO's have come to life. Leading the pack are the KA's and
the Kappa Sigs; first place will be up for grabs Monday when these two meet.

The seven with minutes left in the half. The Cadets needed no Davidson assistance on their second touchdown. In ten
plays they moved 61 yards with halfback Converse Chollis taking a pitch-out at the five to go over for the
score with 9:33 left in the third quarter. An interception of a Benny Coxton pass in the same period by
center Frank Murphy at the Davidson 16 paved the way for the Cadet's third score. Halfback Nick Dilorets went over
from the three to give The Citadel a 21-0 edge. Sophomore quarterback Sid Tompkins prevented Davidson from being shut out
as he scored the first touchdown of his varsity career. In the fourth quarter, Heath Whittle picked off a Citadel
pass and returned it untouched for 61 yards. The Cadets quickly countered. Apparently unhampered by the steady rain, the Cadets
gained a total of 243 yards while allowing the ‘Cats a meager 66. Despite the weather's help, the ‘Cat pass
defense yielded 65 yards on six of The Citadel's 11 attempts.

VMI was also unsuccessful last week. A powerful Iowa State team outscored them 21-46 although the Keydets earned more yardage
and first downs. In the only other game this season, VMI defeated George Washington 14-6.

With almost the same team back which won the conference championship last year, the Keydets are a solid pick to
repeat this season.

New England FLICKERBALL STANDINGS
KA 4-0
Kappa Sig 3-0
ATO 3-1
Phi Delt 3-1
Sigma Chi 2-1
Sig Ep 2-2
Beta 2-2
Phi Gam 2-2
SAE 1-2
Pi Kappa 0-3
Sigma Nu 0-4

Schoen Gets Five Goals
A spirited Davidson soccer team opened the season Tuesday by smashing Belmont Abbey 7-0 behind the heavy booting of co-captain
Fred Schoen. Perfect set plays, a hustling offense, and the sensational scoring of Schoen, who contributed five goals, gave the
Belmont squad the appearance of a cross-country team wearing combat boots over a hopeless 10-mile course. The ‘Cats literally ran
one step ahead of Belmont Abbey after the first quarter. Coach Harry Fogleman attributed the first victory to a team
hungry for a win and possessing the “best scoring punch we've ever had.” The defense ran “a little ragged, especially
during the first quarter,” but the hustle and spirit of the team more than atoned for any mistakes. The only
remark of Coach Paul Marrotte was that “they were playing soccer like they're supposed to. They brought the ball down
the side and crossed it over.”

After an uncertain early first quarter, Davidson began to control the ball. Terrific ball-handling by halfback Jan Brakel began to
show as Davidson continually threatened the Belmont goalie. Schoen tallied for goal number one late in the first period. The
deciding period was the second quarter as the ‘Cat offense began a steady assault. Davidson made eighteen attempts at the
goal and Schoen knocked in number two. Goalie Lyman Dillon ended three Abbey drives with some rugged ball-snatching in front
of the cage. A head shot into the top corner of the cage by Brakel made the score 3-0 with
2:50 gone in the third quarter. Thirty-five seconds later, Schoen bombed the Belmont goalie with another head shot. This goal
tied his opening game performances of the past two years. He now holds 11 tallies in three consecutive games with
Belmont Abbey.

The aggressive play of halfback Sam Glasgow and casual ball-handling of Simon Henson contributed much to the control of a
lagging Belmont squad. According to Fogleman, each of his players put out in pre-game practices and the pay-off came in
a 7-point slaughter. “We had fine morale and played with great spirit.” An indication of the attitude is the fact
that after the game the team voluntarily ran some sprints. “They realize that they need to be in better condition.”

Davidson soccer ended its debut with another scoring flurry. Halfback Lewis Foss filled in with some precision outside play. It
took him one minute of the last quarter to line a shot to the indefatigable Schoen for a fast goal.
Schoen contributed goal number six shortly thereafter. Closing out Davidson's scoring exertions was senior Walt Eckman who let loose with
some quick head work. He was ably assisted by Foss.

It’s incredible, incomparable, infallible! Code 10 for men, the new kind of hairdressing from Colgate-Palmolive. The new invisible way to
groom a man’s hair all day. Non-greasy Code 10 disappears in your hair, gives it the clean, manly look that
inflames women, infuriates inferior men. Be in. Get the non-greasy hairdressing, Code 10. It’s invisible, man!

Rush Wilson, Lin. Imperial Classics
Fashioned by Bates skilled craftsmen, Imperial Classics feature fine Briarhide Calf Leather, soft glove leather linings, storm welted double leather
soles and leather heels, plus the exclusive Bates-Flex construction designed for comfort and flexibility. Ours $26.95

Fox trot twist... waltz lindy... samba mambo... cha-cha-cha... bend dip... hop... step turn... bump... whew.

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by: Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina
