The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BILL HAGEN
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

EP WILLER
Business Manager

FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1963

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Student Evaluation

In one of the presidential platforms proposed last week, a suggestion was made that ought not be overlooked. The suggestion was that the Student Council sponsor a continued student evaluation of instruction. Any professor who has talked to his students must realize that most of them are probably as concerned over the effectiveness of their education as he is. There is also a concern over the improvement of the education. So if there is to be improvement (and this is supposedly a continuous process), it would seem best if all those concerned were heard from.

We hope that the new council will seek to implement such a program by meeting with the faculty to determine the specific objectives and general form for the survey. The form would probably cover quality of instruction, a profile of the student, the adequacy of the text, and organization of the course. Once the form was drawn up, it could be distributed to graduating seniors to eliminate the possible fear of reprisals in other classes. The senior would be instructed to write most of his comments about professors and courses in his major field. The forms would then be collected by the Student Council and turned over to a committee or an administrative official for compiling and surveying the results.

Of course, the question immediately arises as to how valid a measurement a student evaluation is. We think such a survey, if taken as an aid and not an absolute, could be very valuable. Youth can be disarmingly honest if the situation calls for it. We think that if the results were tabulated over a certain period of time the “average” would be just as reliable as some of the better educational and mental tests presently available. If there is such a thing as the crip course, the students will be the first to discover it.

In Memoriam...

It seems as if the threats breathed from above have stilled the brief outburst of coughing which occurred recently. Thus the official crackdown on extracurricular activities during chapel and vespers continues. These activities were a cherished tradition of long standing at Davidson. Three or four years ago, chapel speakers never faced an audience, but rather an auditorium filled with newspaper readers, letter writers, sleepers, and, it was rumored, even hamburger eaters. In those days, it was a real challenge to speak to a Davidson audience, for the speaker faced not only impenetrable apathy but open hostility. In those days bad speakers found out that they definitely were not appreciated. They really had to be good to get any attention at all. The speakers suffered; Chalmers Davidson recounts with glee how they suffered when students could rock the squeaky benches in the old Shearer Hall and almost completely drown out the speech. Those were the bad old days when speakers' feelings were hurt, and many, including Eugene Carson Blake, vowed that they would never return to Davidson.

And so it came to pass that the traditional ways hurt the reputation of the college, violating one of the sacred principles of the new era. Decisions were announced, and the audiences were tamed three years ago. The tradition died with a mimeographed letter sent to all students. But traditions die hard around here. Its ghost returned to haunt us briefly the other night in vespers, only to be promptly run off. The bad old ways have been squashed for good, it seems. Now the audiences are as cool as the students themselves, though in the bright and shining future, some one of us will nostalgically tell his grandson on his knee, “Yes, I was the last student ever to cough at vespers.”

JKA

Noted In Passing...

We understand that there is an inactive committee called the Great Issues Committee that has been accumulating funds over the past several years. It was apparently stopped about the time the Reynolds Lecture Series was begun because of a possible overlap. We conceive the committee as not conflicting in any way with the program of the Reynolds Lecture Series. For one thing, the Reynolds Lecturers have been primarily scholars of the arts and sciences. The need for committed political speakers still exists. Also, the Reynolds Lecture series has not worked with weekend or year-long programs with one central theme. In the immediate case, we hope some of the accumulated money can be turned over to the Student Council’s Program Committee. They certainly need the funds. And plans should be laid for the committee’s functioning next year.

From The Neutral Spirit, a book by Berton Roueche: “The presence of alcohol in practically all existing Neolithic culture does more than indicate its early origins. It also suggests to many prehistorians that alcohol was an active force in man’s early social development. It is possible, they believe, that formal agriculture, whose introduction importantly characterizes the New Stone Age, may have sprung from a desire to assure a regular supply of alcohol.” The testimony of history. Next witness!

A SUGGESTION TO VESPERS COUGHERS AND OTHER DISEASED PERSONS: if speakers inflame your frustrated throats why don’t you all get together and “quarantine” yourselves from certain programs? It would be a much more effective way of protesting. And sanitary too.

Definition of ‘slanted story': an article presenting the right facts to the wrong person.

For the past month there had been campus-wide rejoicing each Tuesday as the monsoon rains forced a cancellation of drill. This Tuesday Federal inspection came off as scheduled. There will be an emergency meeting of the Peon Army Prayer Group in the Dome Room immediately after vespers.

There’s a pretty “meaningful” sign down in the P. O. that students ought to carefully read. It advises all enemy alien agents to register immediately. Now if you’re unsure as to how much of an “alien” or “enemy” you are, there is no problem. The fine print helpfully points out that you can consult the postmaster or your friendly local undercover agent. Anyway, if there are any honorable enemies in our midst, we hope they will stand and be recognized. And, by all means, see us before you let yourself be typed off in triplicate! We'd like to publish “A First” story before the inside agents of the Saturday Evening Post get to it.

Staff

Assistant News Editor
Jimmy Downey

Associate Editor
Knox Abernethy

Editorial Assistant
Jim Williams

Assistant Editor
Bill Ruth

Managing Editors
David Stitt
Jeff Wampler

Sports Editor
Bill Pridgen

Assignments Editor
Charles Ramberg

Feature Editor
Tom Loflin

News Editors
Charles Dibble
Joe McCutchen
Buck Lawrimore

Cartoonists
Dan Adams
Joe Howell
Walter MacDonald
Rufus Hallmark

Advertising Manager
Charlie Smith

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Assistant Bus. Manager
Rick Finch

Photographers

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

The Elect

Did You VOTE?

IT BOTHER You. IT'S REALLY The ones WHO DON'T VOTE Who KEEP THE College GOING. Mean stud WHAT WOULD IT BE IF EVERYONE VOTED? WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN? Just WHAT WOULD YOU TAKE THE STUDENT COUNCIL, FOR EXAMPLE. IF THESE FELLAS KNEW THAT A THOUSAND STUDENTS WERE INTERESTED OR EVEN SEVEN HUNDRED.... IF THEY THOUGHT THAT MANY CARED BUT WE WOULDN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO GRIP ABOUT. WE'D HAVE DONE SOMETHING ABOUT IT. IF THINGS GOT BETTER, WHAT COULD WE RUN DOWN? NO, I DIDN'T VOTE. AND I WON'T NEXT YEAR EITHER. AND IF THEY LIKE IT — BROTHER! IT'D TURN YOUR STOMACH THE CHANGES WE'D HAVE AROUND HERE, TOO. I'D RATHER GRIP.

NSA Discusses Merits Of USA Peace Corps

BY STAR EVINS

During the weekend of March 13 the National Student Association held a conference in Washington, D. C. for the purpose of discussing and proposing ideas for a National Domestic Peace Corps. The Domestic Peace Corps, originally introduced as a possibility by President Kennedy, was proposed to be a service corps for humanitarian, social work in the United States and set up on the same principle basis as the International Peace Corps.

Secretary of the Interior Stuart Udall, keynote speaker at the conference, pointed out what he considered to be the great need of such an organization. He said that there were many illiterate slum areas in the U.S. which could use social workers to teach, provide recreation, and perform other such services for the people. He also outlined what he and the President's study group on the D.P.C. hoped would be the basic organization of the Corps: (1) it would be set up on a national level under the jurisdiction of the federal government, (2) it would employ any corpsmen over the age of 18 who met the specified qualifications, (3) it would not work in areas where it would possibly cause regular social workers to lose their jobs, (4) corpsmen would go into areas only when invited by local governments, and (5) corpsmen would serve primarily as aids to professional social workers in particular areas.

With this basis, the N.S.A. conference members began framing the basis of a bill to submit to Congress which would

Which Way The Beach?

If Florida press releases are an accurate indication, Daytona Beach is going all out this year to steal the spring vacation college trade from Ft. Lauderdale. Roaming the Daytona beaches during the March-April holiday period will be top-name folk singers, including Peter, Paul, and Whatsit, and the Brothers Four. A jazz combo of university professors will also present a number of scheduled and spontaneous concerts. And this is all in addition to the main attraction of girls, girls, girls, plus sea, sun, and suds. There has been no word from Ft. Lauderdale, the number one spring victim of college students for the last few years, but it undoubtedly is preparing for itsusual onslaught of pleasure-seeking collegians. And they certainly will be there, in spite of the fact that many students last spring forsook Lauderdale—scene of the movie “Where the Boys Are”—for Daytona Beach where they claimed they found a “friendlier” atmosphere for their “activities.”

There have been several “disturbances” at Ft. Lauderdale during recent spring vacations, and it may be the resort's city fathers are beginning to tire of the college-set antics, despite the money. Meanwhile, Daytona Beach officials have said that they will spend at least 6,000 dollars to entertain the 50,000 college students expected there during the spring vacation period. The city officials are banking heavily on the big folk concerts, scheduled throughout the holidays. Appearing along with Peter, Paul, and Mary and the Brothers Four, will be the Huntsmen and the Folksters. The jazz combo of university professors will be headed by Dr. John Parker, formerly English professor at Kentucky Wesleyan College, Owensboro, Ky., and now professor at Meredith College, Fayetteville, N. C.

Also at Daytona will be the Rev. Malcolm Boyd, Episcopal chaplain at Detroit's Wayne University, who has become nationally known as the “espresso priest,” because of his liking to meet and talk with college students. Daytona Beach appears to be trying its best to capture the spring vacation college trade. Perhaps all it needs is some place to replace the Elbo Room.

PEANUTS

THE CANALS APPRECIATE THE QUALITIES OF A DOG, SNOOPY

authorize an actual Domestic Peace Corps. Unfortunately, conference members became so engrossed in framing the structure of the corps they failed to see if there really was the great need for such a corps and if it was the duty of the federal government to undertake such an action at such great expense.

In criticism of the Domestic Peace Corps, Representative Finley of Illinois gave substantial statistics which showed that the 5,000 proposed Domestic Peace Corps workers would make only a very slight dent in the enormous amount of social workers already in operation. He pointed out that there are already many service organizations which need and employ social workers and that there is no great need for the federal government to take the expense of such an operation.

Another criticism which could be raised against the corps as proposed by the N.S.A. is the fact that corpsmen could possibly be prevented from going into an area where there is greatest need but no integration. This factor defeats the whole humanitarian basis of the corps and could prevent work in the area where it is really needed most, the South.

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with the editor. We will not publish anonymous letters unless the writer consults the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received no later than 6 p.m. Wednesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 218, Davidson, N. C.

YOU WOULD NEVER ABANDON A FRIEND JUST BECAUSE YOU HEARD HE HADN'T MADE THE HONOR ROLL

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

We Need Less Criticism, More Pride In Davidson

Dear Editor:

Like Richard R. Bernard in his letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN two weeks ago, I too am concerned about the number of articles in the college newspaper which are extremely critical of our college, its faculty, and its students. My concern, however, is not defiance. I sincerely think that many such articles are excellent and necessary to the well-being of the school. Oftentimes, a well-written editorial is the most effective means possible of jolting a group out of states of laxness, insobriety, or indifference.

But one is continually forced to read about student-faculty bickering over the drinking rule, problems in the drama department, or the faculty oath issue. Is there really anything of value arising from the turbid editorials and torrid letters on these topics? I am not suggesting that students should give up their interest in such issues, but I do think that, in their unsettled states, these problems should not appear so often in the pages of our publication. When progress is definitely made and problems are solved, then is the time to inform the student body.

It seems that we could, for a change, be thankful for some of the good things at Davidson that we come in contact with each day, and not worry so much about the drinking rule or the faculty oath. As a freshman, when outsiders ask me about my school, I don’t think of those things. Instead, I remember our traditionally close student-faculty relationship... our superior fraternity system which affects a great percentage of our student body... our diversified curriculum... our liberal scholarship aid for needy students... our basketball team... our outstanding lecture and concert program... our dance weekends... the honor system... and the spirit of friendship and concern for each other that permeates the student body.

To me, these are the important things. We should always strive for improvement, but we should also have pride in what we have.

David Graves

Dear Editor:

Election time here at Davidson brings to light the basic cause underlying many of the problems with which we are faced. There seems to be throughout the year a steady undercurrent of gripes by the student body from the vague drinking rule or the question of three reviews on one day to the lack of academic freedom or the ineffectiveness of the student government. Whether these gripes are validly based is not the question, but rather what the grumblers are doing about it. Those that do the most complaining seem to be the very ones who show the most apathy. They'll hit you with something like: “This place is so bad that you can’t do anything about it.” It is obvious that if everyone held this opinion, there would be a complete lack of student interest or participation in campus life.

This apathy has been demonstrated in the elections last week where approximately 400 students turned out at the polls. It seems to me that to take the initiative to vote is the chief responsibility of a Davidson student, even if he doesn’t intend to contribute anything else. The energy it takes to get a voting card and use it is the least a student can do.

Roger Huggins

Dear Editor:

The literary qualities of THE DAVIDSONIAN's feature articles have not been outstanding in recent months, but one would expect a little extra effort to be made on those dealing with certain subjects. The story on the late “Pop” Copeland, in particular, showed a lack of some of the basic requirements for good journalism. I am not allowed space to give a complete list of the logical and stylistic errors in the article, but the following examples should prove my point.

The word “legend” is used ten times in the article, including once in each of the first five sentences. Only toward the end of the story does the writer seem to realize this excessive repetition, when he erroneously uses “myth” as a synonym. One sentence bears specific attention: “To supplement the inadequately harsh light the school had provided for his desk, the eyeball-conscious frosh could always find lamps of softer electrical tones.” Did the freshmen want lights that were adequately harsh? And what in the name of Edison are “electrical tones?” In this sentence I note the word “eyeball-conscious;” elsewhere I find such phrases as “the big life right here,” “jungle full,” and “realm of life," and I am told that one can “spin his life away.” Not all of these are major mistakes, but taken with others, they add up.

In addition, there is questionable taste displayed in the headline and tone of the article and in the wording of the third and thirteenth paragraphs. Worst of all, the emphasis is more on the loss of the store than of the man. Finally, the writer showed poor judgment in using this article as a means of exhibiting his personal animosity toward the administration.

Everett Huggins

(Editor’s Note: All this writer’s points about the article are not violations of the “basic requirements for good journalism.” Repetition is not necessarily a stylistic error, and unique phrases are in fact the mark of a good feature writer. Most of the “tastes” and the “requirements” expressed appear pretty subjective.)

Responsibility... What Does It Really Mean?

BY BILL FERRIS

“Responsibility... Christian tradition... words keep coming at us week after week; ever flowing from behind a wooden cross carved out of the raised podium. As they speak, a Negro boy our age is cleaning a toilet 500 yards away. Bending, sweating, scrubbing, he cannot hear the speaker's words, for there are many walls that separate him from our auditorium. Many walls. He and the rest of his race are moved into these dirty corners with their brooms, rakes, and mops, shoved there by the rough boots of we who speak so loudly of “responsibility,” of the “Christian tradition.”

Do these words have any meaning? If they do, we had better take a second look at ourselves. We are playing with a fire that will not be quenched. The chained black man will some day break loose and take vengeance for the sense of human dignity that has been denied him.

“Blessed are they that have been persecuted for righteousness sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.” These words are burning in the night like hot coals. Whether they be fulfilled in this life or the next they carry the same threat for us. We are the persecutors, if only because we stand by while hurt is inflicted. We have a responsibility—a responsibility to live up to the truths we pay lip service to each Thursday and Sunday. Our words must reach beyond the hollow auditorium and white walls into the life outside. If wealth and respect smother our actions, then let us cease this hollow talk of responsibility.