FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN

BETA TAILBACK JACK SHERILL SETS FOR PASS
Gam Rusher Vainly Attempts A Tag

Betas, Taus Top IMAC; Sig Eps Surprise KA's
By NEVILLE PATTERSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Betas remained undefeated Monday in IMAC flickerball action when they snapped the Phi Gam win streak 20-19. The Betas are now 3-0 in IMAC competition and are tied for first place with the ATO's, who also have three wins against no losses. As explained by sports analyst Joe Rice, "the Betas probably have the most tested team in the league." Whatever this means, they do have a quick, powerful attack, balanced well by a solid defense.

The ATO’s defeated the Independents 18-6 and the Sigma Nu’s 20-7 to remain in a tie for first place. In the Independent game, the ATO pass defense proved very strong, hauling in many key interceptions to stop Independent drives. The ATO's scored first on a roll-out pass from Dave Hardeman to Skip Waite. Another Hardeman to Waite pass, this time a short one over the middle, capped a long drive and gave the ATO's their second score. Their final TD was made when an Independent pass was intercepted and run back all the way.

The Kappa Sigs remained unbeaten as they turned back the Phi Delts 26-18, in another important game. Sig defender John McKinley intercepted two Delt passes and ran one back for a score. The big factor in the Sig win, though, was the offense. Tailback Buddy Dubose threw three long touchdown passes, two to guard Jamie Bryant and the other to end Arnie Goodstein.

The SPE’s, led by scatback Ed Reynolds, squeezed by the highly touted KA’s 12-9 in what was probably the biggest upset of the week. Fine defensive play by Clark Morrell and “Rookie of the Week” Van Quinn was responsible for containing the KA offense.

In other action this week, the Independents swept by the AE’s 32-12, the Sigma Chi’s crushed the Pi Kapps 42-6 and the Phi Delts wrecked the hapless Pi Kapps 38-12.

IMAC STANDINGS

'Cats, Gridmen Fall Again: ‘Blue Hose Win 13-0
By PALMER KIRKPATRICK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Presbyterian’s Blue Hose whitewashed the Davidson Wildcats 13-0 at Clinton, S.C. last Saturday. Davidson actually mounted a serious scoring threat once; in the second quarter the ‘Cats drove to the PC two-yard line. Asked why the team at this point went for a field goal instead of a touchdown, Coach Bill Dole had this to say: “I'd have been tough to try to make two yards at the goal line. I think our failure to score at this point changed the whole complexion of the game and the psychological momentum of a score.”

The last half of the third quarter saw a 31-yard scoring run by PC's Don McNeill through the Davidson defense. With about two minutes remaining in the game, Dole replaced quarterback Steve Heckard with Jake Jacobsen, playing in his first varsity game. Seconds later, Blue Hose halfback Wade Steward intercepted a pass and ran it back for the final score.

Although the Spiders’ backfield and end lineup sounds tough, they are weak on the line, having lost all of their lettermen guards and centers and their starting tackles from last year. Davidson's strength could be in the line and in the throwing arm of battle-trained quarterback, Steve Heckard. Former fullback Pat Fisher has been moved to defensive end and former end Pack Hindsley will be at tackle.

Richmond posted a 3-6-1 mark in last season's tilts when they faced the toughest opposition in the school’s history. Spider coach Ed Merrick believes that this year's team is better than last year’s and has called Ronnie Smith the “best passer in collegiate football.” Smith, a 6-4, 225-pound senior quarterback, has already been drafted by the Los Angeles Rams and the San Diego Chargers, and also to co-captain halfback Kenny Stoudt, “one of the best runners in the conference.” The morale of the Davidson team was sort of low after the PC game, but things like that wear off after a few days.

Davidson has not topped Richmond since 1958 and dropped last year’s contest 21-13.

OGLETHORPE PLAYED A MUCH CLEANER GAME THAN USUAL
But Don’t Tell Wildcat Halfback Fred Ehlers

Brakel Boots Five As Foglemen
By JOHN ALLEN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

A large Converse Day crowd saw the Wildcat booters repeat last year’s win over Oglethorpe with an 8-1 romp Saturday. Coach Harry Fogleman, soccer mentor, commented on the fine play throughout the game and stated that everyone on the squad got in for some experience. “Oglethorpe played a much cleaner game than usual,” he said, “but they are not exceptionally tough competition and were minus four of their starters.”

Center Jan Brackel led the scoring with three boots. The entire front line, Kurt Pederson, Ben Nzengu, Lee Fanning, and Lewis Foss each scored a goal, as well as Richardson scholar play polished, European-style soccer. Fogleman said that the officials and many of the spectators called the battle one of the best games they had ever seen. “We played very well and our defense, led by fullback Gus Brown, was great,” said Fogleman in his analysis of the game.

The squad meets Duke today. The contest, set for 2:30 on the local field, will kick off Homecoming activities. Coach Fogleman, in a preview of today’s game, said, “Duke has essentially the same kind of team they had last year, so we are looking for another victory over them.”

Goal Line Stand Tops Peter Preps, 21-14

The Davidson Wildkittens played host to Hargrave Military Academy last Saturday afternoon and sent the visitorsback to Virginia with a 21-14 defeat. Kappa Sigs 2-0 led a Jacobsen pass to set up the second PC score. On the first play from scrimmage, fullback Pete Glidewell found a gaping hole in the left side of the Davidson line and scampered sixty yards to the Hargrave three. From there, standout halfback Dick Lindsey scored to give the Wildkittens a 7-0 lead. 

Said Dole, “The interception wasn’t Jake's fault; a guard didn’t pull out to block a rushing end, and Jacobsen had to throw before he was ready. I put Jake in because he’s a pretty good passer and I wanted to see if he could help us with the throwing.”

The second quarter brought a Hargrave score, which deadlocked the contest at halftime at 7-7. After receiving the second half kick-off, Hargrave drove eighty yards and took a lead on a thirty-five yard run around right end by halfback John Harris. The undaunted Wildkittens came back strong, however, and tied the score 14-14 with a sixty-yard, fourth-quarter drive.

PC Loss Avenged

Davidson's cross countrymen downed Presbyterian College 15-50 in a close match last week to win their first match. Davidson captured the first eight places with a total of 256. Robert Dean placed first with the winning time of 23:16. Following close behind in the second and third spots were John Barrow and Tommy Heffner. All the Whittlemen improved their time over last week's showing except Dean, who ran the same time. “This year’s team has better balance and more depth than last year’s,” notes Coach Whittle. This is proven by the fact that Davidson's first eight men were within twenty-five seconds of each other.

SPORTS THIS WEEK
October 17-23

Oct. 17 Football vs. Richmond Davidson
Oct. 17 Wrestling vs. Queens, Salem, WC, etc. Lower Soccer Field
Oct. 20 Cross Country vs. Richmond Davidson
Oct. 21 Cross Country (frosh) vs. “The Park” Davidson
Oct. 23 Soccer vs. Furman Davidson
Oct. 23 Football (frosh) Davidson

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE 892-8468

TASTEE FREEZ
ICE CREAM
HAMBURGERS
PIZZA

HELD OVER! 3rd WEEK
RICHARD BURTON AS “BECKET”
PETER O'TOOLE AS HIS KING
"BECKET" presented in the splendor of 70 mm Technicolor — stereophonic sound
2 PERFORMANCES DAILY at 2:00 & 8:30
DOWNTOWN CHARLOTTE

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

THEY COULD BE GREAT

Freshman basketball practice began yesterday, and, despite the yearlings’ disappointing showing in the Freshman-Sophomore game, it is hard not to be optimistic about the team’s prospects. Bobby Lane, Rod Knowles, Tom Youngdale, Cecil Clifton, and Scott Sinnock, products of one of Lefty Driesell’s best recruiting years since coming to Davidson, bring with them hopes of continuing the recently established Davidson basketball tradition.

Sinnock and Lane will most likely play the wings in Driesell’s 1-2-2 offense. Sinnock, from New Castle, Indiana, played in the Indiana North Central, which Coach Driesell calls “the best high school league in the country.” He averaged 23.7 points per game as a senior and was elected to the Indiana All-State team. Lane was All-State three years in New Orleans and was described in La Sport magazine as Louisiana’s best player in history. It notes, “The few that possessed Lane’s natural talents, it is said, lacked his fiery competitive spirit and unselfish attitude. Those who had his will to win weren't blessed with his native ability.”

Knowles and Youngdale will team together on the Davidson double pivot. Knowles, from Greenville, N.C., averaged over 20 points per game for each of his three years of high school ball. Picked on the Chicago Daily News All-State team, Tom had a 23 point average for Peru, Ill., last year in the Big Eight Conference, another nationally known high school league. Clifton will be the quarterback of the Wildkitten offense, according to Coach Driesell. A Georgia All-Stater last year, Cecil averaged almost 18 points per game and led his team from Avondale to the semifinals of the state tournament.

Non-scholarship players counted on for considerable action by freshman coach Terry Holland this year are Pinky Hatcher, a guard from Columbus, Ga., George Leight from Winston-Salem, and Tom Clayton from Madisonville, Ky. Driesell comments on the game with the sophomores, “Considering that this was the first time the freshmen have won the game since I have been here, I'd say they played well. Remember that they haven't even played together before this.”

The Wildkittens play an 18-game schedule against the likes of Duke, North Carolina, Clemson, Wake Forest, and several Southern Conference schools. Coach Driesell calls it the “toughest we've ever set up.” They could be great.

DIBBLE vs. THE CANDIES

THE DAVIDSONIAN Croquet team has been established as a ninety-to-one favorite in tomorrow’s clash with the Scripts and Pranks staff. Leading the favorites in the tradition-rich encounter that was begun last year is jock-among-jocks Dribble Dibble’s athletic prowess probably reached its zenith in glory when he hit himself in the back of the head with a softball during his freshman p.e. tests. Also on the winning team are Fat Charlie Smith and Foetus Clark. All of the Scripts and Pranks team members are pretty insignificant and thus aren’t worth mentioning. However, since this column is so broad-minded and objective, it is printing Scripts and Pranks captain Pete Crow’s prediction, made in a burst of wit exceptionally uncommon among staff members of the would-be humor magazine. Says Crow, “We figure we'll be able to beat Dibble’s conservative game.” Retorted Dibble, “We expect to roll over Crow’s blackbirds by such a liberal figure that they'll give up croquet and take up crocheting.” Asked for a prediction, the DAVIDSONIAN star added, “They’ve got a fine team but our boys have been working real hard, pointing toward this game. If we get out there and really hustle, I think we can win, especially since I doubt that Crow's candies will show.”

The Hu Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M. Cornelius

WELCOME ALUMNI! CATS LET’S STOMP THOSE SPIDERS

Rush Wilson Ltd.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
GREENVILLE, S. C.