RATLIFF WRITES FROM PAKISTAN (See Page Three) VOL. LIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1964 CATS’ WIN STREAK ON LINE TOMORROW (See Page Five) NUMBER THREE

Problem Into Committee DRINKING RULE ISSUE Student Council Shuttles By JOHN BAILEY Davidsonian Staff Writer

Student Council Monday night sent the drinking question to a newly formed special committee, thus delaying final action for at least “three or four weeks,” according to Student Body President Will Jackson. In an attempt to reach a decision as to whether or not Honor Court Chairman Hugh Allen's suggested liberalization of the drinking rule should be accepted, Jackson appointed Tommy Heffner chairman of a committee to study the problem.

The controversy is one which would allow the Honor Court some leniency in its decisions on enforcement of the drinking regulation. On Sept. 21 Allen asked the council if the word “ordinarily” could be inserted in Article 8, Section 2 of the Student Body Regulations so the section would read “Every student found guilty of violation of this regulation shall ORDINARILY be suspended from the College.”

Jackson emphasized the difficulties incurred in changing the regulations and urged that the committee give careful consideration to any suggestions it might have to offer when called upon to report.

Fred Sackett opened the Student Council meeting with a report concerning the “still liberal, but moderating” National Student Association summer Congress and the regional NSA meeting. He and President Will Jackson questioned the value received from sending delegates to the national Congress. Both felt that perhaps the money could be better spent. Sackett stressed the improvement of Davidson's position on the regional level and said Davidson must continue to consolidate its position in NSA and try to strengthen its relations with the other members of the region. He believes Davidson would benefit at the regional level.

John Barrow, Freshman Advisor and chairman of Freshman Court, told the council that 22 freshmen had been turned in for violations of freshman regulations. He said that the response of the upperclassmen had been good and that Jesse Sims led in the Joe Drama Department Jones’ Award standings (given to the upperclassman turning in the largest number of freshman violators).

The council decided on the regular meeting time of Monday nights at 7 p.m. It concluded its meeting by asking that any suggestions on the parking situation on campus be passed on to John Gresham, Traffic Committee representative, or to the Dean of Students’ office.

To Present Coriolanus Simon Blackford, English Richardson scholar, has been cast for the title role in the Drama Department’s upcoming production of Shakespeare’s Coriolanus. The play, one of Shakespeare’s political tragedies, was long neglected, and only within the last few decades has it been performed with any great frequency. Coriolanus poses the question, “Can one have too much integrity to be a politician?”, and explores the reasons why someone becomes a traitor to his own country. The director, Rupert Barber, plans to present the production Nov. 5, 6, and 7, a scheduling which he believes timely, “since that week will be the climactic one in the current political campaign.” Nov. 7 will also be Freshman Parents’ Day.

The play has a large cast of nearly 50 persons and will require about 80 costumes. Barber believes Coriolanus will be of special interest to Davidson students because of both “its emotional appeal and the intellectual problems posed. It's the kind of play we hope will generate discussion on campus,” he added. Dr. Grier Williams is composing special background music which will be recorded for the production by the Wind Ensemble.

The leading female roles have been assigned to Mrs. Wilmer Welsh and Mrs. Brad Thompson. Other major roles will be taken by Dr. Thomas Clark, Alex Bernhardt, Ed Dwelle, Dave McCorkle, Smith McKeithan, Robert Powell, Jim Shackleford, and Art Slaughter. Also appearing will be Ken Scott, John Callendar, Guerrant, Ed Rude, Dennis Phillips, John Feuchtenberger, Sam Boyte, Bob Meek, Clay Ford, Jim Selley, Mike Fitzpatrick, Paul Monk, Ray Kytle, Bill Vermilye, Mike Hunter, Neal Martin, Marvin Sparrow, Tommy Ashford, Ted Schabel, William Murphy, George Watkins, and Michael Light. A call will be made within the next few weeks for extras to play spear-carriers. Barber also needs some volunteers to make about 40 pairs of Roman shoes for the production.

Two other major productions are planned for the year. In February, Jean Anouilh's The Rehearsal, a light comedy set on the French Riviera, will be presented. The third play has not yet been selected. Barber also plans to continue the workshop series. This program features short one-act plays that are student-directed.

FRED SACKETT All Set For LBJ (Staff Photo By Smith)

KA’S ANSWER TO THE MONITOR But It’s Less Than Second—Best Pi Kapps’ Pontoon Boat Takes First Regatta By TED GLUSMAN Davidsonian Feature Writer

Boat prices went sky high in the Davidson College area as three Pi Kappa Phi pledges jetted to victory last Saturday in the first annual Pledge Class Regatta. The race included a variety of weird crafts, ranging from Early Seaplane to Late Air Mattress by way of Contemporary Tin Can. The conglomeration of vessels took to the water at 1. When the starting gun went off at 1:17, those boats still afloat raced furiously toward the marker buoy, with the amount of boat above water varying widely. Possibly the gamest crewThe corrected OCR text is as follows:

---

of the race was that band of six strong arms provided by the Kappa Sigs. These three gallant mariners took second place early in the race, and with an amazing display of stamina, held it almost to the finish line. The members of this sturdy crew at first would comment only, “The water was wet,” but after prodding, broke down and admitted that the reason for the conversion from paddles to arms as a means of propulsion was that with the added weight of paddles, “the boat kept sinking.” Among the slow starters in the race were the “Thinking Three of SAE” so-called because their boat kept thinking behind the starting line. Gresh Bayne, who piloted this amazing feat of naval ingenuity, gave several reasons for the slow start: “We were hurried into starting position. The tide was coming in.” And referring to the fact that the boat occupied slot number 13, “The gods were against us.” Bayne felt, however, that the SAE’s finish was due primarily to poor strategy: “We delayed our kick too long.” The Regatta was slightly marred by the inexplicable loss of the Beta Theta Pi entry during the preceding night. But the Betas were out in full force to egg the other Greeks on to victory, notably the second-place Sigma Chis and the third-place Kappa Sigs. In fact, you might say they threw their support behind these two boats — as well as in front of them, around them, and at them! But the support was only token: after tossing only a dozen such garlands, the Betas withdrew. The day ended with a great controversy raging over the value of the Pi Kapps’ winning entry. This writer feels that the builders of this boat, who paid one cent apiece for two wing-tip tanks from a jet airplane, are overlooking a great opportunity, as are most of their criticizers: at this rate, you can buy a whole plane for $32.47! C’mon, Greeks, be the first on the court! See the Pi Kapps for color choices today. Be the first to bomb Chambers! The jet age has come to Davidson!

Four Fraternities Claim Late Pledges

Greek letter fraternities have claimed as “late pledges” twelve Davidson freshmen who walked down the hill before the normal two-week bid deadline on Saturday. These twelve brought to 215 the number of freshmen who have accepted bids, and their pledging hiked the percentage of Greek letter freshmen to approximately 77%. ATO led the field with five late comers, Julian Prosser, Paul Monk, Marvin Sparrow, Cecil Clifton, and Jim Morawetz. Clark Sugg, Mike Bates, David Westfall, and Gayle Batson swelled the ranks of the Pi Kappa Phi’s. Sigma Chi pledged Fred Lennon and Tom Youngdale; and Phi Gamma Delta pledged Kim Johnson.

Fred Sackett, president of the Senior Class, will attend a buffet supper and reception at the White House tomorrow. He will represent Davidson as part of a select group of some 200 college students invited to the informal affair by President and Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson. Last Saturday, Dr. D. Grier Martin received a letter from President Johnson to select an “outstanding student leader” to attend the White House function. President Johnson stated that he was doing this because, “I have a great interest in the young leaders who are emerging in our colleges, and would like to get to know them and their thinking as much as I can.” Sackett will fly from Charlotte to Washington tomorrow morning. At 5 p.m. he will attend the reception at the White House. Receiving the student leaders will be President and Mrs. Johnson, Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara and Mrs. McNamara, Secretary of Labor Willard Wirtz and Mrs. Wirtz, and United Nations Ambassador Adlai Stevenson. The reception will be followed by a few remarks from the President, and brief talks by the two cabinet members and the ambassador. A buffet dinner will follow, with entertainment (with Lynda Bird Johnson as hostess), concluding the evening. Sackett will return to Charlotte by plane Sunday night. While at the White House, Sackett hopes to see Henry Hall Wilson, congressional liaison officer for President Johnson. Wilson will be speaking at an October assembly at Davidson in conjunction with the Great Issues Program of the YMCA. Sackett hopes to confirm the speaking date with Wilson. Attending the “informal gathering” with Sackett will be Sarah Porter, president of the student body at Sweet Briar College. Homecoming Queen at Davidson last year, Miss Porter is the fiancée of Howard Arbuckle, ’63, who was chairman of last year’s Honor Court. Sackett stated that he was “extremely honored and very privileged at being selected to attend an affair at the White House.” He considered it to be “quite an opportunity,” and he is “looking forward to listening to these men and hearing their policies firsthand. The experience will be quite valuable,” he concluded. There are no definite plans made as of now, but Sackett will deliver some form of report on his experiences to the student body upon his return. He stated that he will be glad to talk to anyone concerning the trip. The college will provide the necessary funds for the trip. Will Jackson, president of the student body, was originally asked by Dr. Martin to attend the affair, but he could not accept because of obligations to the football team.

Approval By Congress

Passage of legislation authorizing a 50-percent pay raise for advanced ROTC cadets was virtually assured Monday when the Senate passed the House version of the bill (HR 9124). Attempts by Sen. Gaylord Nelson (D-Wis.) to amend and substantially change the measure were defeated by a vote of 43-10. The measure was then passed by the Senate on a voice vote. The House Committee on Armed Services approved the minor Senate amendments to the measure on Tuesday thus clearing the way for House action, which is expected at any time. As there were only minor changes in the House passed measure when it was sent to the Senate, no trouble is expected in the House. Richard Russell (D-Ga.), chairman of the Senate Armed Service Committee, explains the measure:

SCHOLARSHIPS

“The bill would authorize all the military departments to provide scholarship assistance to students in the four-year ROTC program. This assistance could be provided for a minimum of one year or a maximum of four years and would be virtually the same as that now provided by the Navy in the so-called Holloway program. The scholarship assistance would consist of the payment of tuition, books, laboratory fees, and similar charges, and the payment of retainer pay in the amount of $50 per month for 10 months of each academic year.” The senator explained further: “Since this will be a new program for the Army and the Air Force, the committee has provided a temporary ceiling of 4,000 on the number of scholarship students for these two services.”

Van Doren To Speak On Monday

Pulitzer Prize winning author and poet, Mark Van Doren, will deliver the first of Davidson’s 1965 Reynolds Lectures on Monday evening at 8:15. Speaking in Hodson Hall, Van Doren will read and comment on selections from his poetry. A reception and informal discussion in the Stowe Art Galleries are slated in honor of Van Doren following the address. Tuesday morning, Van Doren will conclude his lectures with a short coffee hour in the Union, immediately following his address to the student body at 10:20. Charlotte’s Davidson alumni, the 1-2-8 Club, will host Van Doren at lunch Tuesday, at which time he will speak on “Liberal Education.” Van Doren received his AB and AM degrees from the University of Illinois and his PhD from Columbia. His Collected Poems won the Pulitzer Prize in 1939. Van Doren’s works include The Narrative Poems of Mark Van Doren, Collected and New Poems, Liberal Education, The Last Days of Lincoln, and Morning Worship and Other Poems. In addition he has produced as a literary critic The Poetry of John Dryden, Shakespeare, Nathaniel Hawthorne, An Introduction to Poetry, and other volumes.

Bates New Head Of Honor Court

Honor Court Chairman Hugh Allen has been forced to drop out of school for a semester because of bad health. Dick Bates has been elected to replace him as chairman of the court. Bates, a senior from Coral Gables, Fla., has served on the court since the end of his freshman year. He is a member of Kappa Alpha Order.