PAGE SIX
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1964

John Braine, author of Room at the Top, YMCA Book of the Semester, will arrive at Davidson Monday to begin a series of talks and discussions.

Book Of The Semester Author Arrives Monday For Lectures

Braine’s opening discussion will be held at the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity house at 6:30 Monday evening. Tuesday he will speak in chapel and will hold a coffee hour in the Morrison Room of the Student Union following his speech. Braine will conclude his visit to Davidson with an informal discussion in the Morrison Room at 3 Tuesday afternoon. He plans to attend some classes, but no schedule of his visits is known.

Lampton Reflects Views Held By Angry Young Men
By PRESTON FAGGART
Fine Arts Department

What was England in those ancient, pre-mod, pre-rocker days like? What went on over there BB (before Beatles)? Time is flapping by so fast these days that the decade of the 50’s is already past history, in a way, as remote and meaningless as the dark ages of, say, the 6th century A.D. This state of affairs is perhaps the result of two literary movements that flowered briefly during that remote decade: the so-called Angry Young Men in England and the Beat Generation here in the good old U.S.A. Both movements seemed to have insisted, paraphrasing Shakespeare, “Live no more; the bomb has murdered life.” And the Angry Young Men apparently have all, like Room At The Top’s hero, Joe Lampton, burrowed their way down to that room, squirmed into that comfortable three guinea shirt, Sulka bathrobe, Leddersford Conservative Club society they were clamoring against (and for).

WRITER'S LOW-DOWN

It will be interesting to hear Mr. John Braine, author of Room At The Top, here at Davidson next week, not because we will be given any insights into his masterwork: it is self-explaining, self-destroying even, but to get the writer's low-down on the current happenings in merrie England as he sees it. Joe, with natural assets of good looks and a likable disposition, comes from a provincial, working-class background but has pushed himself up to the level of junior accountant as he begins telling his story. Warley, a prosperous mill town in Yorkshire to which Joe has just moved, is quite a different scene from his native Dufton... “dead Dufton, dirty Dufton....” Here in Warley he finds excitement, opportunity, and culture, plus a society alive enough to feed his ambitions. He joins the local drama group for the sociability in it and immediately gets involved with two women. Alice Aisgill, unhappily married, nine years his senior, experienced, is just what the hungry young man needs. He falls deeply in love with her.

PEACHES AND CREAM

The other woman is a girl: 19, peaches and cream. Susan is the luscious, ripe, virginal daughter of mill-owner Brown (worth about 100,000 pounds). Who could resist? Riding high on his huge success Joe can gloat over his envious companions “I WANTED HER...”

“Whatever desires they had been tormented by, I'd fulfilled... I was given for the asking what they'd never get in a thousand years; and I'd be given Susan, too; and, if I wanted her, there was no reason why I shouldn't be given June.”

But in the next scene we find old Joe taking a step backward. He discovers that Alice, forced by circumstances during the lean years of World War II, had modeled nude for a painting which was on view in a nearby town’s municipal gallery. This is too much. He is crushed and slashes out in fury only.

LIKE LIGHTNING

But soon they're back happy again—and Susan too. If Alice is a juicy roast beef dinner, Susan is a delicious, creamy dessert. In spite of the efforts of Big Daddy Brown to break things up, Joe makes rapid progress and the irony flashes like lightning: Susan is with child and Joe’s going to be welcomed into the family. The swineherd will marry the princess... the swineherd will be given a top job for the kind, if—so, Joe’s off to Alice to say goodbye. Forever. Alice takes it very well: she crashes her Fiat into a stone wall and dies a hideous slow death.

BRILLIANT WRITING

A brilliant piece of writing ends the story: Joe does what most young men would when he learns the next day of his mistress's death. He goes on a hellish bender in a nearby town trying to wash away Alice’s agonizing moans with drink, sex, and violence. But he still knows the score and he wishes he didn’t. The book is brilliant. It rings of irony and truth found in the books of Sam Butler and Evelyn Waugh. And amazingly enough it is a first novel for Braine.

Braine, a native of England, worked at various odd jobs before serving in the British navy in World War II. Since that time Braine has been a freelance writer in London and Yorkshire and is presently a librarian in Yorkshire. Braine is said to write in the tradition of England’s Angry Young Men, a tradition of severe indictment of the British Establishment forming a protest against Tory rule and ideals. Copies of the book are available at the Student Store for $.50. In addition, the movie version of Room at the Top will be shown in the Morrison Room tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, and Monday afternoon at 3:30.

JOEL BRAT

The celebrated novel charming and calculating opportunist. “An excellent book... funny, serious, honest and full of life." —Harper's

OF FRATERNITIES??
Faculty Opinion Differs
By BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

One interesting aspect of the current Fraternity dialogue has been faculty reaction, expressed both publicly and privately. Since a large percentage of the faculty and administration are alumni of Davidson, it is hardly surprising to find a concern in that body with the issues discussed this week. Dr. John Kelton and Dr. W. G. Workman, present at the Wednesday evening forum on the issue, voiced their attitude publicly. Curiously perhaps, the latter revealed approval of the national fraternity system (as opposed to local eating clubs) on the grounds that it was the best control system possible. “Almost invariably (recalling one exception) when we ask a national to discipline a local chapter, they do so.”

Students Will Discuss ‘Project Of Americas’

Latin American students will speak in chapel Monday about “Project of the Americas,” a new organization recently begun at Davidson. Jose Borrajero, a native of Cuba, will tell what has been done and what remains to be done in establishing the club which will seek to promote understanding of Latin America among people of the United States. Fred Ehlers, a Richardson Scholar from Ecuador, will describe the widespread misunderstanding in the United States which prompted the forming of the club. “It is time for somebody to say the truth, and time for somebody to accept it,” commented Ehlers. “I will do so Monday. Nobody believes it, but a social revolution could occur in Latin America very soon.” PRAM and Davidson have received recognition in “Ultimas Noticias,” Ecuador's largest newspaper. The organization has the backing of approximately 20 Lions Clubs in this area. Six colleges are currently participating in the program. They are Davidson, Queens, Charlotte College, Belmont-Abbey, Sacred Heart, and Johnson C. Smith. Ehlers, in addition, has received an invitation to speak to the Department of Cultural Exchange of the United States Department about PRAM.

Drama Experiment Set For Vespers

A Drama Team from Louisville Theological Seminary will present an experimental “worship-through-the-arts” service featuring interpretive dance, folk music, and readings for vespers Sunday. The service is entitled Vocatus Spiritum, and its theme is the call of God. The purpose of this type of service is to attempt to create an appealing and contemporary innovation in worship. The group is made up of seven students from Louisville Theological Seminary, and the material presented is original with the exception of scripture readings used. Five more vespers services, including Christmas vespers, remain in the semester.

ROTC-IFC Blood Drive Set To Begin Nov. 30

The ROTC-IFC blood drive will be held Nov. 30 and Dec. 1. Donors will report to the college gymnasium between 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. on either day. By giving blood a student earns a free drill cut on Tuesday, Dec. 1. The Red Cross furnishes an added incentive by providing that anyone involved in an accident within six months of his donation will receive free blood. The IFC awards a plaque to thefraternity contributing the most blood. Of the sixteen times this plaque has been given, the Sigma Nus have won it ten times. The last drive, held last April, netted 264 pints of blood. This figure, low for a student body comparable in size to Davidson, should be surpassed this time. Each contributor gives one pint of blood unless for medical reasons he is unable to donate that much. According to Dr. J. B. Woods, college physician, the average body will replace this amount of blood in approximately one week. All blood donated goes to the Charlotte Blood Center for Mecklenburg County.

The Karl Boxer Trio will cut a record for Mercury label of their live concert Tuesday evening, Nov. 24 at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. The Trio, consisting of jazz pianist Boxer, string bass player Dave Young, and drummer Tim Smith, is currently touring the country in night club performances and college concerts. The group is primarily oriented toward straight jazz but includes varied types of music in order to reach wider audiences. Boxer, a native of New York and currently a resident of Charlotte, is recognized as a top performer in his field. His trio has appeared throughout the eastern seaboard and just concluded an engagement at the Showboat Lounge in Washington, D.C. After their concert at Davidson, the trio is billed for an engagement at The Townhouse in Chicago. WBT, which carried Boxer’s first regular radio program, will handle the taping of the concert. The album cover will consist either of a shot of the Davidson campus or of Tuesday evening's audience. Admission to the concert will be $.50.

Union To Sponsor Bowmiller Movie

Theodore Bowmiller of Cincinnati, Ohio, will present a travelogue program, sponsored by the College Union at 8:15 Monday evening in Hodson Hall. Bowmiller, an expert photographer, decided several years ago to travel around the world by jeep. During this trip, he took many films and pictures which will be featured in the course of his talk. He has been involved in this type of lecture presentation since his return to the United States following his trip. Steve Bunch, president of the Student Union, stated this was the first time anything like this has ever come to Davidson. He said there have been many requests for a program of this nature and felt that it was of general interest to just about anyone.

CHARLOTTE MOVIES
CINEMA I: “Lilith”
CINEMA II: “Send Me No Flowers”
MANOR: “White Wilderness”
DILWORTH: “Quo Vadis”
CENTER: “Fail Safe”
CAPRI: “The Outrage”
PARK TERRACE: “Where Love Has Gone”
CAROLINA: “Your Cheatin’ Heart”
PLAZA: “The Young Lovers”
VISULITE: “Youngblood Hawke”

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
Best Pizza West of Italy
La Roma Ristoranti
1540 West Boulevard at Remount Road
Charlotte, N.C.

OVENS
Nov. 27 and 28
Evenings 6:30 p.m.
Orch $4.00 $4.90 $3.00
Matinees — Nov. 28 2:30 p.m.
Orch $2.89 $3.00 $4.00
Mail Orders Only
Make checks payable to Ovens — Send to Coliseum — Please enclose self-addressed stamped envelope.

chapter, they do it,” noted Workman, who serves on the faculty fraternity committee. In a different vein and somewhat more philosophical, Dr. Kelton stated that the only legitimate purpose of fraternities on this campus would be to foster fellowship and allow students to come in close contact with other diverse personalities.

NOT A DEATH BLOW

From this viewpoint, the issue of 100 percent bidding did not appear a death blow to the system to either Kelton or Assistant Dean of Students Bob Jones. Both cited psychological studies to advance this view. Later, Dr. Workman noted that he “was not impressed” with a proposal submitted by Fred Sackett to fill the social gap with two local fraternities. Workman pointed out that the only thing held in common by those people who would constitute these fraternities is their common rejection by the system. After Rick von Unwerth's Tuesday chapter address, some talk circulated (“off the record” for the most part) among faculty members about “irresponsibility” and “avoiding the real issue.” This question was placed before a much-respected faculty member; the informal discussion that followed seems to be indicative of some faculty opinion. “Of course I am more influenced by the speaker with whom I agree,” said the professor (an alumnus). “I don’t think Rick was avoiding anything, although he did seem to be looking for a rationale for the system.”

Dr. George Abernethy was frank and quite willing to discuss the matter but declined specific reaction, having missed Monday chapel and Open End. He did note that the fraternity system would not be open to question “... if it furthered the objectives of the institution.”

To The Freshman Class...

This is a special invitation from an alumnus (Bill Tate — class of ‘28) to the class of ‘68 to come to Charlotte and get acquainted with Tate Brown's personnel and the fine merchandise in our Natural Shoulder Shops. We want you to make our store your home away from home. Browse, relax, meet your friends here. Let us cash your checks. Use our phones. And on any purchase you make, just say “Charge It”! Our selection of Gant Shirts, Weejuns, London Fog, Corbin Slacks, Alan Paine and Thane Sweaters, College Hall, Madisonaire and H. Freeman Suits and Sport Coats are here for your leisurely selection. A HAPPY THANKSGIVING TO YOU!

There are THREE Tate-Brown's Natural Shoulder Shops to welcome you:
DOWNTOWN—126 SOUTH TRYON—3RD FLOOR (Free Parking at the rear of Downtown Store)
COTSWOLD SHOPPING CENTER—WEST MALL
PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER

TATE-BROWN'S CHARLOTTE

As far as I can see, fraternities here exist for eating, drinking, and intramural activities...”

100 PERCENT BIDDING

One alumnus on the faculty, a former member of the faculty Fraternity Committee, noted that “... with the higher quality of boys being admitted to Davidson, I don’t see why any fraternity should object to some form of 100 percent bidding.” Dr. W. O. Puckett, on the other hand, felt that his pre-med students indicate another trend bearing on the system. “Those with the grades,” he said, “are not well-rounded; and those who are well-rounded socially do not have the grades.” While it would be a mistake to state that the faculty universally feels that some change is necessary in the present system, a majority seems to lean in that direction. It was implied by several and said openly by one faculty member questioned. “This thing won’t end this week; there is sentiment for change and one would be naive to dismiss it.”

Dr. W. O. Puckett felt we should be asking what role fraternities are to play on campus. He lamented the present situation as having “too much social and not enough intellectual” emphasis. Even further, he noted that at Davidson the primary allegiance seemed to be to the fraternity and not to the school. For this reason, he advocated Sophomore rush (“Any freshman class would do well to be together for a year...”). From his experience with Princeton eating clubs, he felt definitely that 100 percent bidding would not work.

NO ALTERNATIVE

Interestingly, Puckett elaborated on the lack of an alternative to fraternities here. At Princeton, he said, the advent of the “college system” has led to the recent demise of some eating clubs—“but what is the Davidson alternative?” In stating his belief that “some change is necessary,” Chaplain Will Terry felt strongly that “the fraternities and the faculty must remain flexible enough to try something. If an innovation doesn't work,” he continued, “We should not be afraid to scrap it and start over again.”

NATIONAL TREND

Bill Bondurant said that, despite any other possible qualifications, “Any year is high time to take a close look at the system here at Davidson.” The current questioning, he said, is part of a national trend which was going to get here sooner or later and is not without its possibility for betterment. While it would be a mistake to state that the members of the faculty and administration who were questioned constitute a random sample, the feeling does seem dominant that some change is necessary. It was implied by several and said openly by one faculty member questioned. “This thing won’t end this week; there is sentiment for change and one would be naive to dismiss it.”

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN’S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone ED 2-2414