LIBRARY FOUND ‘INADEQUATE’ (See Page Three)

VOL. LIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1964

NUMBER FIVE

(Staff Photo by Thel)

HOMECOMING QUEEN CANDIDATES

IAN AND SYLVIA

Saturday Night Concert Duo

TODAY

10 a.m. Board of Trustees Meeting

8 p.m. Artist Series: “Raduga”, Russian Dancers, Chambers Auditorium

SATURDAY

11 a.m. Club Meeting, Morrison Room

12-2 p.m. Alumni Buffet Luncheon, Patterson Fraternity Court

1:30 p.m. Annual DAVIDSONIAN-Scripts ‘n Pranks Croquet Match, Fraternity Court

2 p.m. Football: Richmond at Davidson

Halftime: Queen Selection

8 p.m. IFC Concert “Sabicas” and “Ian and Sylvia”, Chambers Auditorium

Council Makes Plans For Used Book Store

The Student Council on Monday night appointed a committee to study the possibility of beginning a Student Discount Service, which
would enable Davidson Students to obtain discounts at certain stores and restaurants in Charlotte. The committee, under chairman Dave Meschan,
will work with a similar committee from Queens College which is already functioning. Together the committees will visit various establishments
in Charlotte to determine how many would be willing to co-operate in giving discounts to both Davidson and Queens students.

The Student Discount Service, as proposed by Fred Sackett, would operate by issuing identification cards to students at both colleges
for a nominal fee. These cards would list the stores and restaurants participating in the service, and these concerns would
give student purchasers a certain discount on items or meals bought there. If the plan for the service is well-received
by the merchants in Charlotte, the council will try to have the service in operation by next fall.

In other business coming before the council, President Will Jackson reported that College Business Manager Robert A. Currie and Book
Store Manager Peter Nicholls seemed “quite receptive” to the idea of a used-book store to be operated in conjunction with
the existing book store in the Student Union. Nicholls and Professor J. (Continued on Page Six)

Homecoming 1964, long planned but short-lived, features the Davidson-University of Richmond football game, enhanced by classical and popular entertainment. All
available transportation, as well as local accommodations, are swamped by the return of eager alumni and members of the feminine
sex, imported to fill the local void.

The weekend's events begin this afternoon with Davidson's twice-beaten soccer team meeting the visiting Duke Blue Devils at 2. An
IFC banquet is planned for 7 this evening in Hodson Hall for all Homecoming Queen candidates and escorts. This will
be a semi-formal affair honoring the candidates.

At 8 p.m. the Artist Series introduces the “Raduga.” “Raduga,” meaning “rainbow,” portrays in full spectrum the classical tradition of
Russian dance. There will be no formal dance, as was previously announced.

IFC Homecoming exhibits will be on display Saturday morning with judging commencing at 11 a.m. The already traditional DAVIDSONIAN-Scripts ‘n
Pranks croquet match will be staged again this year at 1:30 p.m. The teams in this affaire d’honneur will be
led by Charlie Dibble and Pete Crow respectively. The annual outdoor barbecue will again be held in the center of
the Patterson Fraternity Court.

GREAT ISSUES SPEAKER

Randolph Praises Appalachia Aid Bill

By BOB STRAUSER

Davidsonian Feature Editor

As has been noted elsewhere and at other times, the “Great Issues” topic for this fall semester is “Campaign —
’64.” Wednesday, Jennings Randolph (D-W. Va.) brought to Davidson his 30 years of experience in Washington for the purpose of
speaking to the issue at hand.

“Fred (Fred Sackett, “Great Issues” chairman) asked me to speak on the anti-poverty and Appalachian bills considered in this session
of Congress,” said Randolph. In reality, he never discussed the anti-poverty bill but instead spent his time extolling the virtues
of the proposed Appalachian Regional Development Bill.

“This bill is the Normandy beachhead of our war on poverty,” declared the senator. He went on to cite the
history of the bill from its beginnings in the minds of nine area governors (South Carolina and Ohio later joined
the group). Better than one billion dollars are proposed to aid the distressed region; Randolph noted that two-thirds of this
amount would be spent on highways to open up the area and that any governor would have veto power over
projects in his state.

In speaking of the problems of Appalachia, the senator understandably spoke more directly to the problems of West Virginia. Eighty
thousand coal miners have lost their jobs in that state to automation in recent years. “Clay County,” he continued, “has
one doctor, over 80 years old, and the closest hospital is 55 miles away.” While concluding his remarks on the
state, he said with a final burst of enthusiasm, “We'll cover the stripped sides of our mountains... with cover.”

Closing out the presentation, the speaker mentioned some prominent conservative personalities. Of one of these, he said, “My distinguished colleague,
Strom Thurmond, will be here soon I understand; perhaps it would be better if he waited until after the election.”

The coffee hour that followed found Randolph speaking to a large, colorful poster (“Target — the unkillable James Bond —
Agent 007”) and about 35 students and faculty gathered in the shadow of that pictorial narrative. Here the senator spoke
to specific issues but as he noted, “I don’t think you can polarize your opinions on many of these problems
today. There are more than two points of view.” He spoke lightly of the senator from Arizona “flying a covered
wagon” and “drawing the waited and popular entertainment.”It will be a joint alumni-fraternity affair. Kickoff for the Homecoming game will
be at 2 p.m. Davidson is seeking to rebound from two consecutive defeats and even its record. Large and powerful
Richmond seems unlikely to acquiesce to the Davidson troops, but a distinct deviation from Homecoming tradition would be a welcome
occurrence. Crowning of the Homecoming Queen, chosen from among the 13 candidates, will take place at halftime. Immediately following the
game, the fraternities are holding open house for all returning alumni and guests.

Spiders, Stockings, Spirits, Spice, Salubrious Spectacle

Funeral services for Michael H. Bell, 20, and Preston St. Clair, 19, who were killed in an automobile accident early
Sunday morning, were held Tuesday afternoon. Services for Bell were held at First Lutheran Church in Lexington. Burial followed in
Forest Hill Memorial Park Cemetery there. The funeral for St. Clair was conducted at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church with
College Chaplain Will Terry officiating. Burial was in Decatur, Ga. Both Bell and St. Clair were members of Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternity. Fraternity brothers served as pallbearers. Bell, a chemistry major, was a member of the Junior Class. St. Clair,
also a junior, was a National Merit Scholar and a mathematics major. A sportswriter for THE DAVIDSONIAN, he had been
elected chairman of the Young Republicans Club in 1961. Michael Bell also is survived by a brother, Franklin, 32, and
his maternal grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Barger of Salisbury. St. Clair was a son of Dr. Kenneth E.
and Miriam Preston St. Clair. His father is a professor at Tarkio College in Tarkio, Mo. A native of Indianapolis,
the victim was born in March 1945. Surviving, in addition to his parents, are two brothers, Kenneth E. St. Clair
Jr., a student at the University of Kentucky, and Charles St. Clair of Tarkio; a sister, Mrs. James Jerard of
California; and his maternal grandparents, Dr. and Mrs. J. F. Preston of Decatur. The only other traffic fatality to involve
a Davidson student in recent years was the death of John Triplett in June of this year. Triplett was also
a member of the Junior Class and of Pi Kappa Alpha.

Alumni and guests who might be on campus for the weekend, and hopes that they enjoy Davidson's biggest weekend of
the year: One last note directed to all fraternity men: dance weekend curfew in the fraternity houses is 5 a.m.
Saturday, and 3 a.m. Sunday. Cop Linker will be patrolling in his newly arrived riot car.

The accident occurred when the young men were returning from Saturday night dates with two Lenoir Rhyne students in Hickory
where the group had attended the Appalachian-Lenoir Rhyne game. About 2 a.m., their 1962 Volkswagen left Interstate 40 and crashed
head-on into a large highway sign denoting the downtown Statesville cutoff. Investigating officers reported that St. Clair, listed as the
driver of the automobile, apparently fell asleep at the wheel. The car left the right side of the road and
traveled alongside the bank for a total of 150 feet before striking the large concrete-steel base of the sign, officers
stated. The mishap occurred on a slight downhill grade on a straight stretch of road. Investigators estimated the speed of
the car at 60 miles per hour in the 65-mile zone. Both students were pronounced dead on arrival at the
local hospital; there was no one else in the automobile. The young men had borrowed the car from Buford Norman,
St. Clair’s roommate.

Personal tragedy has touched the Bell family before. Mrs. Harold Bell's daughter, Marcia, was killed in an automobile accident in
1955 while a student at Wake Forest College. Mrs. Bell's husband died in 1957.
