“SELF” DISCOVERED IN SEX EXPRESSION HETZEL REPORTS ON TRIALS (See Page Three) (See Page Two) 

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

VOL. LII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1964 NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

Powell, Matthews Join
(Staff Photo by Smith) 
A dove melodiously chirping of peace...

Genial Communist Diplomat Fails To Inspire Students
BY BOB STRAUSER

Anatoli Myshkob, First Secretary of the Russian Embassy in Washington, appeared on the stage of Chambers Auditorium Monday morning at the invitation of the Student Council. If anyone was impressed by the historic nature of Secretary Myshkob’s presence, the effect was not seen in the sleepy, uninspired faces of his audience. After 20 minutes of generalities on “Aspects of Soviet and American Relationships,” most of the audience felt compelled to attend third period or return to bed; about 75 found their way to the Morrison Room to partake of free coffee and Communist ideology. The questions during the informal session ranged from the Berlin wall to disarmament policy; Myshkob’s answers, like the much-lamented coffee, seemed a little stale. The wall, according to the Secretary, was constructed to halt the flow of saboteurs and refugees from West Berlin to East Berlin. In answer to many smiles, he went on to explain that the American press just did not see fit to cover this aspect of the Berlin situation. With this statement, Myshkob eliminated all further discussion on the matter by dismissing as out of hand the information of his interrogators. Even Charlie Vick’s lament, “What is there to sabotage in East Berlin?” did not sway the Secretary. Later that afternoon, he would reverse the situation and state that the Hungarian revolt was inspired and led by forces outside of Hungary—"I read this in the American papers.”

Contrary to the general attitude of the Charlotte press, however, Myshkob was not a sinister Bolshevik sneering through his well-oiled mustache. Instead, he was a clean-cut, obviously well-trained diplomat who seemed more prepared for a discussion than for a lecture. He seemed pleased with the opportunity to present his viewpoint but did not display the missionary zeal of a political idealist. Myshkob gave the impression of being a bit unsure of himself, turning frequently to the moderator to check his idiom. One got the impression, however, that this practice was largely for effect: the Secretary seemed always to have the right expression in mind before audibly checking its authenticity. In the afternoon session, he noted that candidates for the Presidium undergo a “sifting” process; Professor Philip Secor offered “screening” as a more apt description of the process and assured the secretary that the two terms were synonymous. A moment later Myshkob again used the word “sift” and smilingly noted, “I know the other word has bad connotations.” After dinner that night the Soviet visitor made his final appearance with a short talk on Soviet culture. Instead of speaking on the arts as one might have expected, he spoke of industrial and social progress in strongly nationalistic tones.

Male Chorus Ends Annual Spring Tour
The Davidson College Male Chorus returns tomorrow from their 30th annual spring tour which will have taken them from Davidson to Florida, with concerts along the way. The group left Davidson on April 3 and appeared in Brunswick, Ga., that night. Concerts followed in Deland, Clearwater, Winter Park, Tampa, and St. Petersburg, Fla. Spending last night at Florida State University in Tallahassee, they left Tallahassee this morning, will appear in Atlanta, Ga., tonight and will return tomorrow. Under the direction of Donald B. Plott, the Male Chorus is composed of about 30 men chosen by competitive tryouts in the fall of the year.

Poll Favors Charlotte For Basketball ‘Home’
BY HARRY CARR

“A reasonable majority” of the three underclasses favor playing most of the home basketball games at the Charlotte Coliseum, according to Student Council President John Spratt. The juniors, sophomores, and freshmen, 272 favor the proposal while 195 are against it, Spratt told professor Paul Marrotte of the Faculty Athletic Committee. Spratt quoted the results of a Student Council poll requested by Marrotte for use in scheduling next year's athletic events. “Most students, regardless of how they voted,” Spratt continued, “seemed to favor playing only weekend games in Charlotte.” However, he registered his impression that, “several of the more significant games of the season could be scheduled during the week without deterring attendance and without drawing student disapproval.”

In the following question and answer session, Myshkob was asked about the Soviet selection of a third-rate American film in a recent cultural exchange. At first, the Secretary tried to dismiss the matter lightly and assured the audience that “We in Russia do not think of you as a nation of Boris Karloffs.” Pressed further, he noted “We know you have bad aspects of your culture and we ridicule you for them. We also know of the good aspects.” “When I return to my country and people ask me about America, I will tell them about my trip to Davidson. I will tell them that there were students here who were sincerely interested in finding out about our country, who are sincerely interested in furthering the understanding between our two countries. This I promise you.” Most students who heard the Secretary would agree that the spoken Communist line is more interesting, and possibly more informative, than wire service reports. Certainly, most were impressed by his geniality, but few re-interpreted their world view as a result. It was painfully obvious that the depth of knowledge of foreign affairs among Davidson students leaves something to be desired. In the area of disarmament, most students seemed at a loss to reply to the Soviet line. One interrogator, African expert Walter MacDonald, was unaware of the fact that Laos had remained neutralized. By Monday night Anatoli Myshkob was gone. Perhaps he left something more than two empty Viceroy packs, but it is doubtful that he planted the seeds of Communist conspiracy in the heart of the Presbyterian community.

With “predominant approval” of all, 30 students said they would make frequent use of chartered buses to games in Charlotte. “Many more” stated they would make occasional use of it, he indicated. “Very few” favored preferential seating by classes. Almost all, though, favored sitting in a solid block along the side of the court. Spratt noted a suggestion to admit students on ID cards and allow them to select seats within the section on a first-come, first-serve basis. The poll did not state that the section extended into the Coliseum’s rafters. “You can expect criticism,” Spratt asserted, “when students discover they are on the back rows.” The student body head recommended a student section stretching across the mezzanine and not reaching into the balcony. “It would facilitate student cheering,” he said, “and make up for the loss of choice seats in Johnston Gymnasium.” Further, Spratt noted that students expect some provision.

Sackett At Class Helms
Class Officer Elections Climax Student Voting
Student Council representatives and class officers were picked this week, as the new, compact schedule of student body elections was completed. Fred Sackett is next year's senior class president. He was elected on Wednesday along with Tommy Heffner, vice-president; Don Davidson, secretary-treasurer; Charlie Marshall and David Walker, representatives. Sackett took the top spot by polling 71 votes, followed by Heffner with 65, Davidson with 50, Marshall with 48 and Walker with 46 votes. The new head of next year's junior class is David Powell. In yesterday's close runoff, he edged Arnie Snider and Billy Clark, who will serve as vice-president and representative respectively of their class. Powell had 60, Snider, 56, Clark 52 and Paul Simpson 49 votes. In another tight run-off yesterday Chuck Matthews was elected president of the rising sophomore class. Johnny Gresham is the sophomore council representative. Matthews had.

* * Election Concluded In Runoffs
Steve Bunch, a rising senior from Jacksonville, Fla., was elected president of the College Union in a run-off election Friday, March 27. Bunch won over Wic Cooney by the landslide margin of 239-88. He is a history major, a member of the cross country team, and Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. In the race for the editorship of Quips and Cranks Zach Long defeated Mac Mclver by a vote of 83-50. A rising senior, Long is from Rockingham. An Independent, he manages the swimming team. In the closest race of Friday's runoffs Eric Nichols edged Ken Childs for the vice presidency of YMCA by a count of 168-165. Nichols is a rising junior and a member of the wrestling team and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He is from Oreland, Pa. John Barrow defeated Don Davidson for thePost of Freshman Advisor by a 93-47 margin. Barrow is president of Phi Delta Theta, a hall counselor, and a member of the cross country and track teams. He comes from Winston-Salem. 

For date tickets, he said that this had been a popular theme among the students polled and among the council members.

Drama Workshop Enacts ‘Zoo Story’

“The Zoo Story” by Edward Albee makes its debut on Davidson’s campus tonight at 8 p.m. Under the direction of Romir Chatterjee, the short, one-act play which runs 50 minutes features Pete Myers and Sidney Farrar. The theme focuses on the lack of communication among human beings, and it may well be placed into a category of theater known as the “theater of the absurd.” In the words of its director, “The Zoo Story” has what it takes to “be a very powerful play.” A smash hit on Broadway in 1960, “The Zoo Story” is presented free of charge in Hodson Hall tonight.

BY JOHN TODD

Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories at Davidson for the past seven years, has submitted her resignation to be effective July 1. President D. Grier Martin reluctantly made the announcement this week. “We are going to lose a very important part of the administration set-up at Davidson when she leaves,” he said. Mrs. Moore gave no particular reason for her leaving. As to her future, “You can just say my future plans are sort of incomplete right now.” Martin said that the college has not begun seeking a replacement for Mrs. Moore yet. “The woman to replace Mrs. Moore will be as near as possible like her, as we can find,” he stated.

Mrs. Moore came to Davidson in the fall of 1957 shortly after returning from the Near East. Her husband had been associated with a pipeline company and died suddenly while on a job in Asia. Her son attended Davidson, and her two daughters have graduated from the local high school. Since Mrs. Moore has been here, a new dormitory has been constructed (Richardson) and the enrollment has advanced from just over 800 to near 1000 men. She succeeded Mrs. R. A. Little, who had held the post for 12 years. Mrs. Little has held several positions on campus since that time and is now hostess at the Guest House. “Davidson has been especially fortunate in the ladies who have been in that position,” President Martin said. He added that no major changes are anticipated in the new supervisor's responsibilities, although the college would definitely be providing the “proper assistance” for the new position. Any decision on changes in the responsibilities would be made after Mrs. Moore's successor is picked, Martin said.

“Mrs. Moore has been so much in the nature of things that she is, as far as I am concerned, irreplaceable,” said Student Body President John Spratt. “Without her, I think we're going to realize how really invaluable she has been.”

55 votes, followed by Gresham with 52 and Ralph Feil with 48 in the runoff. Sackett, a native of Keystone, W. Va., is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, where he has been vice-president this year. He was instrumental in getting most of the changes adopted in this year’s move toward open elections. He is chairman of the Y's Great Issues program next year and will also serve on the IFC. Powell is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and hails from Little Rock, Ark. He has been a cheerleader for the past two years. Matthews is a native of Winston-Salem and is a member of Beta Theta Pi. He has served on the freshman council during the past year. Seven cheerleaders were also selected for next year in a series of close elections this week. They are juniors John Curry, Ken Essex, Bill Jacobs, and Purk Purkerson; sophomores Randy McKnight and David Powell; and freshman Dave McCorkle.

Walt MacDonald, this year's chairman of the Elections Board, in reviewing the balloting over the past few weeks said, “It's still a personality election but not so much as in the past. A number of boys with poor platforms were elected to offices while some with better platforms were passed over.”

(Continued On Page Four)

Davidson To Participate In Ford-Backed Program

Davidson will be one of 18 southern colleges and universities taking part in a program to identify talented youths from deprived families and to work with them and their parents through the high school years with the aim of placing the youths in college, President D. Grier Martin reported this week. The program, sponsored by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, will be developed in an eight-state area and has recently been underwritten by the Ford Foundation in the amount of $150,000. 

The Ford-sponsored program calls for the identification of talented though deprived youths in both white and Negro schools beginning at the seventh and eighth grade level. Ten public school systems will be selected in the beginning of the program. Most of the Ford grant will be used for the services of guidance personnel to work with the young people. Other colleges in North Carolina participating in the program with Davidson are Duke University and North Carolina State College of Agriculture and Engineering.

Psychologist Speaks To Phi Bete Initiates

Harold G. McGurdy of the University of North Carolina will deliver an address entitled “The Coming Revolution in Thought” at 8 p.m. Friday, April 17, in Hodson Hall. The address by Dr. McGurdy is open to all interested students. Professor of Psychology and Research at UNC, McGurdy has written several books that are of special interest to the student. Combining his talents in literature and psychology, he wrote The Personality of Shakespeare. The Yale Press published his A Venture in Psychological Method in 1952. His latest work is entitled The Personal World: An Introduction to the Study of Personality. This book is intended to be used as an intermediate level text for the college level or as a general introduction to the person interested in psychology. A volume of his poetry, A Straw Flute, is also available. His poem, “Mutiny,” won second place in the 1951 Poetry Council of North Carolina competition. For the Smithsonian Institute in 1960, he wrote a study on Childhood Patterns of Genius. It was his conclusion that public schools thwart the development of potential genius.

“She understands the student situation better than anyone in the administration or faculty. For the sake of Davidson, I sure hate to see her leave!” he added. Honor Court Chairman Howard Arbuckle was even more surprised. “Mrs. Moore leaving? I'm astonished!” he exclaimed. “She always bent over backwards to help me. She is so much a part of Davidson that it is difficult to think of Davidson without Mrs. Moore—or vice-versa. She is the mainstay of cheerful positivism on campus and that is important,” he stated.

At the initiation to be held on Friday afternoon, Walt Eckman, John Hall, Phil Lewis, Bob Pierce, Bill Pridgen, Dave Schade, Jim Thompson, and David Walker will be inducted into the national honorary scholastic fraternity.

Dibble Appoints Staff

This week’s DAVIDSONIAN is the result of the efforts of a reorganized staff, selected recently by newly elected editor Charles Dibble. Serving as associate editors are Rick von Unwerth, Charles Ramberg, and Jim Downey. Page layout is being handled by Managing Editors John Todd and Mike Harrington. Taking over the position of copy editor is Rufus Adair, while Ron Snow has moved into the news editorship. Johnny Clark will serve as sports editor, and Tom Loflin will continue as feature editor. Charlie Smith, newly appointed business manager, will be assisted by Irvine Welling. Ned Kelly will assume the duties of advertising manager. Mal Lane continues as circulation manager. Photography will be handled by Tom Thel and Sam Smith.

McGurdy, a native of Salisbury, received both his AB and PhD degrees from Duke University. He taught at several colleges before joining the UNC faculty in 1948. Van Nostrand Publishers have selected another of his books, Science and the Question of Personality, to appear in their Insight Series.