REPERTORY COMPANY MINSTRELS

The YMCA's annual fund drive will begin Thursday, Oct. 8, and last until the following Thursday, Oct. 15. The goal
this year is $4,500 or $4.50 per student. The Y budget for 1964-65 is $4,475.

To Make Merry Music

Eric Nichols, fund drive chairman, said a careful study of last year’s expenses was made before the budget was adopted.
When asked why the budget called for $25 less than last year, Nichols had this to say:

Voluntary Chapel Series To Depart From The Past

“Varieties in Worship” will be the theme of six voluntary chapel programs this semester which will represent a significant departure
from weekly programs of years past. The changes are largely the result of work by Bill Rule, YMCA spiritual life
chairman. Rule feels that the old twice-a-week, every-week system added very little to Davidson’s religious life. They have been abolished.

“In general we are attempting a more complete cooperation among the various religious organizations on campus with the hope of
reducing confusion and duplications among them and presenting the student with a wider variety of religious activity and experience from
which to choose,” Rule explained.

Rule hopes that the various church-affiliated groups here will alternate in sponsoring these services. “We will consider the presence of
students at these programs a vote of confidence in efforts of creativity in an area which has often been stifling,”
he added.

This week a film, “Worship in Dance,” was presented, an attempt to preach a sermon through the medium of modern
dance. Wednesday the chapel will feature “Voices in a World of Revolution," a choral reading in the context of a
modern world, with appropriate responses from the worshipers.

Davidson Men Trek To GOP, Democratic Conventions

By BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

It has been occasionally rumored and even said aloud at times that the Davidson student takes no active interest in
matters political. Without proving conclusively that such rumors are ill-founded, the political conventions of this past summer were not without
Davidson representation.

Easily the largest contingent of participating students used as a medium the energetic “Young Citizens for Johnson,” organized under the
direction of Senator Birch Bayh of Indiana. Bill Garrard, Britt and Arnie Snider, Dan Boone, and Dick Thurston donned the
red, white, and blue vest and straw hat uniform of the organization for their week in Atlantic City. Originally the
organization had been a modest proposal at best, but the flood of applications and interest transformed the proceeding into almost
an overgrown pep rally.

There were menial tasks assigned to some; two organized rallies, however, were the high point of the week. Bill Garrard
worked for a day with executive director, James Fitzpatrick, and found time later in the week to work with the
Georgia delegation. The Snider twins took greatest interest in the “Webb dispute,” an entertaining sidelight within the North Carolina delegation.
Several of the group found their way onto the floor with the borrowed credentials of John Spratt, alternate from South
Carolina and former student body president. Dick Thurston fared even better in his role as guide for members of the
photography corps; his credentials took him over the convention floor and into the center of the “sensation-seeking” press contingent. Even
Wil Terry was in attendance for Johnson’s week-long birthday celebration. Wil accompanied friends in the Carolina delegation and was impressed
by the “spontaneity” of the response for LBJ. He concluded his observations with the remark, “I thought Humphrey’s acceptance speech
was a masterpiece — and you can quote me on that.”

A few weeks earlier a Davidson trio was in attendance when the “coalition of discontent” convened in San Francisco. Bill
Bondurant found little about which to be discontented—except for the fact that he never managed to get into the Cow
Palace. Working at an alumni convention in Denver, Bondurant continued through San Francisco but got no further than the front
gate of the Cow Palace.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Helen Hayes Repertory Company will present William Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night in the Auditorium next Friday night at 8:15. It
is the first of four programs to be presented this year in the Davidson College Artist Series.

This company of 12 actors and actresses will arrive in Davidson on Thursday and will remain after its performance through
Saturday, while it rehearses Hamlet and Villains, Lovers, and Fools, two other plays that it will present while on tour
of various colleges and universities throughout the South.

Organized in 1932 by Helen Hayes and Producer-Director Jack Manning, this group consists of top-notch talent from the stage and
television. It has attained nationwide acclaim for its exceptional performances. During the performers’ stay here, students will be given an
opportunity to meet and talk with them while they work. Miss Hayes, however, will not be here. She does not
travel with the company, but acts as its artistic adviser.

This particular program is included in the Artist Series as part of Davidson's observance of the 400th anniversary celebration of
Shakespeare's birthday. Later in the year, the Artist Series will present the Raduga Dancers, who will entertain Homecoming celebrants with
a repertoire of ballet, folk, and comic dances and native Russian folk music. This group from the USSR is making
its first tour of the United States.

In November, the duo-pianists Nelson and Neal will come to Davidson. They return by popular request to present an All-Brahms
program. The last program of the series will feature the Chamber Orchestra, which performs with its 36 pieces and without
the benefit of a conductor. They too arevisiting this country for the first time. Tickets are available for the performance
of “Twelfth Night," and tickets for the entire series may be purchased also. Davidson students are admitted to all series
at no charge.

ANNE WHITESIDE Appearing With Repertory Co. Night in Chambers

Male Chorus Schedules 1964-65 Performances

The 1964-65 itinerary of the Davidson College Male Chorus includes a number of local performances as well as its annual
Spring Tour in April. The Chorus’ first concert will be a joint appearance with the Queens College Choir and Orchestra
at the Sacred Music Convocation in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church on Oct. 23. On Nov. 2, the Chorus will
appear in the Charlotte Opera Workshop's production of “Tales of Hoffman” in Ovens Auditorium. The next performance will be a
concert with the Davidson College Wind Ensemble in Hodson Hall on Dec. 4.

Terry Takes Charge Of Debating Team

The Davidson Debating Team, under the direction of its new coach, Chaplain Will Terry, will begin this year’s competition with
a debate in Boone, on Oct. 29-31. This tournament will feature teams from several colleges throughout this area. Eight upperclassmen
have returned to Davidson's team this year, while 40 freshmen have expressed an interest in the team. This year the
team will debate the topic: “Resolved: The Federal government should establish a national program of public works for the unemployed.”
The team will meet each Tuesday night for 90 minutes. Terry hopes to make the selection of partners as flexible
as possible until an effective combination is found. Five off-campus trips as well as a tournament to be held here
have been planned for later this year. President D. Grier Martin, commenting on Terry’s selection as coach, said, “He is
well qualified to provide assistance and leadership for the debate team.”

Endowment Payments Aid In Development Program

A $10,000 first payment of a $5,200,000 endowment gift from the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation has recently been made to
the college. The Foundation will pay the remainder of the bequest during the next 10 years. The total will represent
the second largest gift in the school's history. In another grant to the college, the Stella and Charles Guttman Foundation
pledged $5,000 per year for the next four years to aid Davidson’s Financial Assistance program. Davidson has also received $2500
from the General Electric Foundation to strengthen the teaching of physics. This grant is one of 150 totaling $650,000 distributed
to more than 100 colleges and universities throughout the country. A fourth award of $350 has recently come from the
Aetna Life Affiliated Companies under the companies’ aid to higher education program. Commenting on the bequests, President D. Grier Martin
recognized the gifts as “encouraging and substantial progress toward raising $20.5 million in Davidson’s current (1956-1971) development program.” President Martin
expressed the belief that the generosity of the Reynolds family would “encourage Davidson alumni, parents and friends to support as
never before the financial needs of the institution.”

Winding up the first semester's schedule on Dec. 13, the Chorus will make its joint appearance with the Davidson College
Chapel Choir in the traditional Christmas Vespers program. A number of Male Chorus members will also be singing throughout the
year with the Lamplighters, a special group which was organized under the auspices of the Chorus. Highlighting the Chorus’ second
semester schedule will be the Spring Tour, part of which will be taken during spring holidays. Performances are planned for
both Washington, D. C. and New York City, as well as for other cities along the Eastern Seaboard. The Lamplighters
began their season on Tuesday, Sept. 24, with an appearance for the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce at the Festival in
the Park. Plans for the year include more of such appearances. New members of the Lamplighters this year are sophomores
Allen Cooper and Bill Jones, and freshman David Clark.

CHAMBER MUSIC CONCERT Davidson Musicians To Perform Monday

The first of the 1965 Chamber Music Concerts sponsored by the Davidson College Department of Music is scheduled for Monday
afternoon at 4:45 in the sanctuary of the Davidson Presbyterian Church. Begun last year by Prof. Wilmer H. Welsh, these
thirty-minute concerts, held on the first Monday of every month, are designed to give students and members of the community
who play a musical instrument a chance to participate in an organized musical group. Monday's concert features Blaine Richey, Mal
Lane, Dr. H. A. Bryan, and Mr. Ralph Quackenbush. Secular and religious works of Bach and Handel will be performed.
Each concert is informal and features non-professional performers. Plans for future programs include madrigal singers, children’s choir, a recorder quartet,
and harpsichord. All performances are free.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN Charlotte, N. C. 1318 W. Morehead

MAINCOAT by London Fog

Let a Smile Be Your Umbrella When You Wear A! LONDON FOG

In warm weather you have a completely wash-and-wear, water repellent coat. Simply zip in the alpaca liner and you are
ready for the coldest winter. An authentic coat classic, The London will take you through all weather with impeccable taste
and style. Enjoy its fine tailoring; wash-and-wearability. You get all the protection you need from the beautifully tailored coat. It
has a stand-up collar, fly front, self yoke, and is made of the finest cotton. Zip-in, zip-out pile liner.

THE DUNDALK THE LONDON THE ANDES

All of these available at Rush Wilson Ltd.
