FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN / PAGE THREE

CAT TALES BY JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

A CHANCE TO GET SOMETHING DONE

Davidson's present athletic facilities are, at best, only adequate. Now we have a chance to get something done about them.
Our athletic facilities are being evaluated this year, along with all other areas of the school, for the Southern Association’s
self-evaluation program. The Physical Plant Committee has submitted its self-evaluation to the Steering Committee, which will decide on the final
report for the evaluation.

Heading the list of pressing needs are additional basketball and handball courts. Athletic Director Tom Scott notes, “There is no
doubt but that basketball and handball facilities are our most pressing need. With the varsity and freshman teams practicing most
of the time during basketball season and the IMAC having to work its schedule around the practice sessions, the courts
are seldom available, except on Sunday afternoons, for students to play on their own. The present facilities are adequate for
the varsity and freshman teams’ use, but, as Dr. Scott notes, “What we need are additional courts in order to
fulfill the needs of the student body.”

Handball presents a similar problem. Davidson has only three handball courts, and they are almost always busy when they are
open. During the winter months, it is usually necessary to wait in line in order to play. Basketball and handball
are the only indoor sports available and thus the only winter sports available. Since the facilities for these sports are
almost always overcrowded, improvements in these areas are a necessity if the athletic facilities are to be brought to a
level at which they fulfill the students’ needs.

One wonders why the improvements aren’t made when the cost is considered. Figuring a liberal estimate at $15 per square
foot, an addition, including two basketball courts, three handball courts, additional dressing rooms and a weight room, could be made
at the back end of the gymnasium (facing the lower tennis courts) for approximately $250,000. This sum is hardly excessive
when one considers that it would alleviate a definite inadequacy in Davidson's physical plant and when one compares it with
the $324,000 being spent on renovation of the Student Union ($124,000 last year plus $200,000 this year).

Dr. Scott further points out that a gymnasium addition could be opened without having to open up the entire gym,
thus allowing students to play, at times when conditions aren’t crowded, without using heat and electricity for the entire building.

GOLF FACILITIES?

A third major area in which there is definite need of students is golf. Even several girls’ schools have some
sort of golf facilities, while Davidson students have to travel ten miles to Mooresville, pay a dollar, and then wait
in line in order to play golf. Since the college owns the farmland behind the driving range, this area could
be used for the construction of a golf course. Three holes could be built at first, and the surrounding college
land would permit expansion to proceed later as finances permit. A par three, a par four, and a par five
hole could be constructed with most of the normal obstacles—sand traps, bunkers, water hazard, etc.—that a golfer encounters on a
regular course. Such a course would enable a student to go out and play two or three holes, as time
permits, and thus keep in practice without paying money and killing an entire afternoon. Many golf-playing students don’t play at
Davidson because of the inconveniences of getting a course to play on. Such a course would also help the golf
team, which has the same problem as the other students in finding a course and time to practice. Dr. Scott
notes that such a layout could be built very inexpensively since the school could provide the labor and that, with
just a three-hole course, golf could be added to the curriculum.

The above-mentioned items are only the major and most pressing needs in the athletic physical plant. The evaluation list brings
out many more inadequacies. Hard surface tennis courts are needed so that students can play in damp weather and during
the winter months when weather permits. The existing clay courts, although fairly adequate when in use, are kept in condition
only during about four and a half months of the school year. Thus no tennis can be played during half
the year.

Another swimming pool is needed for the winter months, as the varsity and freshman teams keep occupied during the afternoon
the only one we have now. Another football practice field is needed so that the stadium turf won’t have to
be torn up in practice. Even most high schools don't have to practice on their stadium field. Adequate lighting for
Richardson Field would enable Davidson to schedule night games at home. This would alleviate the problems of sweltering September and
October weather and would probably help attendance. A tin roof needs to be extended from the back of the visitors’
stands so that the baseball and track teams can have at least some area to work out in during bad
weather.

The majority of the deficiencies relate to the entire student body’s needs rather than to the needs of varsity teams,
although there are inadequacies in this area also. As I understand it, the Southern Association’s self-evaluation program, in addition to
accreditation purposes, is conducted so that its members can see their own deficiencies and do something about them. The Physical
Plant Committee has enabled Davidson to see its deficiencies—now what?

ODDS AND ENDS

Tennis Coach Harry Fogleman is now serving as a consultant for Spalding sports equipment, designing and testing both tennis and
soccer equipment. A tennis racket of his design will be on the market next fall, carrying his autograph on it
and selling for $21.

Hard feelings have been caused in several instances this spring in which IMAC umpires or referees have made weird calls
in favor of their fraternity. Biased or not, the umpires will make mistakes, but the hard feelings could easily be
eliminated if the IMAC would simply provide neutral officials for softball and volleyball as it does for flickerball and basketball.

COACH AND ATHLETE magazine recently named to its high school All-America basketball squad Rodney Knowles of Greenville and Bobby Lane
of New Orleans, two recruits of Coach Driesell for next year’s freshman team.

Apologies to the tennis team for my description of them as weak and “slightly better than mediocre.” A 17-6 record
is hard to beat. My description was inaccurate, but was used solely to stress the fact that there is a
strong probability that Davidson would be a national power if the tennis team were put on equal financial footing with
other college tennis teams.

Sonny Graves has nothing to say this week.

Coach Tom Stevens’ baseball team parlayed their newly discovered power and good pitching into a three-game win streak last week
as they downed Belmont Abbey 13-5 and whipped VMI twice, 4-3 and 7-1. In the Belmont Abbey encounter, ‘Cat shortstop
Rick Smyre continued his late-season hot streak by pounding out two doubles and one home run to lead a sixteen-hit
Davidson attack, which included seven extra-base hits. Dave Johnson started the game for Davidson and picked up the win by
surviving five shaky innings. He tired in the sixth and was replaced by Howard Bryan, who pitched perfect ball for
the rest of the game.

Smyre continued his power hitting in the first game of the VMI doubleheader Tuesday. He stroked a two-out, two-run home
run in the fifth inning to provide starter Barry Teague with what proved to be the winning margin. Although Teague
was not as sharp as he has been this year, he managed to get out of the game to pick
up his third victory of the season. Wildcat right fielder Don Davidson also pounded a home run in the game.
In the second game, Smyre and company wasted no time building up a lead for Earl Cole. A walk, two
triples, a double, and a single produced three runs in the first inning. Cole pitched one of his best games
of the season, allowing but five hits and one unearned run. He struck out eight and walked none.

Davidson's rejuvenated baseball team will try to stretch its winning streak to seven games tomorrow afternoon as they host conference
foe George Washington. Two wins tomorrow would...

By WAYNE LANE

The George Washington Invitational, better known as the Southern Conference Tennis Tournament, will begin Monday morning at 9:30 on the
Davidson courts—the first time in several years that the tournament has been held here. But the predicted outcome is as
it has been so often in the past, “George Washington will take everything hands down." Afternoon sessions are scheduled for
Monday and Tuesday with the finals planned Wednesday afternoon. Led by Harvey Harrison and Jerry Rudy, the Colonials last year
took the top singles and doubles division championships and they edged out the Citadel 10-29 to win the team championship.
John Ariail, who is the tournament's top seed in the number six bracket. Three teams, Davidson, Furman, and Citadel, will
probably fight for second place with the ‘Cats, who have defeated Furman, 8-1, and Citadel, 7-2, having a definite edge.

The tournament will consist of six singles divisions and three doubles divisions. The ‘Cats will have Bill Schutt in the
first division, Dick Hurd...In the second, Woody Cleveland; in the third, Bill Council; in the fourth, Jeff Frank; in the
fifth, and John Ariail in the sixth. Schutt and Council will combine in the number one doubles division, with Hurd
and Cleveland in the second, and Ariail and Frank Bumgardner in the third. Bumgardner or Dave Mes could move into
the singles, completing a sweep of the tournament. Harrison took the singles title last year, then combined with Rudy to
take the doubles title. They have been the mainstays of the team which boasts 44 victories in the last 45
individual matches, the single loss being inflicted by Wildcat Captain.

Following tomorrow's game, the baseballers travel to Charleston, S.C., Tuesday, for a doubleheader against ACC Champion North Carolina at Gastonia
next Friday.

By PRESTON ST. CLAIR

The three current IMAC sports battles livened up some in the past week, as several upsets were recorded in every
race. The Phi Delts had to beat the heavily-favored Kappa Sigs to the top in volleyball's top bracket. The Delta-Sig
match took three games to decide the winner and drew so much interest that the spectators were more numerous than
at the average Davidson home football game. The Sigs showed that they could not quite take what they dished out,
as they found it almost impossible to stop the tremendous spikes of Delts Steve Davidson, Dave Stitt, and Terry “The
Goon” Holland. Joe Jelks and Hill Wellford, in the spotlight as referees, leaned over backwards to be fair and provided
some of the most impartial judging observed this year in any sport. The Sigs are now favored to win the
losers’ bracket. Still alive in this bracket are the Phi Gams, the SPE’s, the Betas, the Chi’s, the Independents, and
the Pikas. The Pikas reached the final round of the winners’ bracket before bowing to the Delts.

The tennis tournament is almost completed now, as there are only two fraternities remaining. The Pikas won the losers’ bracket
in this double-elimination tournament and have to face the Phi Delts Monday for the championship. The Pikas beat the Sigma
Chi’s and the Independents in tennis to achieve their victory in the losers’ bracket. They had previously lost to the
Independents in the winners’ bracket. However, Pika Bob O'Kelly played one of his best games against the Independents this time,
combining with Chris Hawk to down the Indies, 6-0, 6-2. Independent Rob Earle said, “It was really discouraging knowing that
he (O'Kelly) was going to hit the ball over my head every time. He hit the baseline at least fifteen
times.” If the Pikas beat the Delts Monday, the two teams will have to play each other again. If the
Delts win, the tournament is finished.

The softball title race nears completion with the Kappa Sigs and the Phi Gams leading with identical 9-1 records. The
Phi Delts are close behind with a 7-1 record and a very good chance to place second or win. The
Gams and the Sigs both entered the week undefeated on the softball field. When the two teams clashed, the Gams
came out on top by a surprisingly lopsided score of 20-2. However, the Gams then met their Waterloo in the
Sigma Chi’s. The Sigma Chi’s really found their measure of respect in the public eye by upsetting the Gams. The
Sigma Chi’s pitcher sailed through that game, but the score of 12-14 does not indicate that pitching made the difference.
The softball standings this week are entirely unofficial and are not complete, as some IMAC representatives again failed to turn
in game results on time.

SC Tennis Tournament Begins Here Monday

Commissioner Lloyd Jordan will be at the Monday afternoon matches.

Netters Win Two, But Fall To UNC

The Davidson fuzzballers, taking two out of last week's three matches, raised their season record to 17-6 last Thursday by
smashing Wofford 9-0 in a match that saw the ‘Cats polish off the Terriers without dropping a set. Bill Council
set the pace for the afternoon by taking John Miller, 6-0, 6-1. Woody Cleveland defeated Hamp Culler, 6-0, 6-2. John
Ariail took Joe Good, 9-7, 6-1. Bill Schutt disposed of George Lyons, 6-0, 6-2. Frank Baumgardner handed Jim Graham a
6-0, 6-1 defeat, and Dave Meschan whitewashed John Baldwin, 6-0, 6-0. The doubles matches were all Davidson's. Schutt-Council took Miller-Good
and Cleveland-Hurd took Lyons-Culler by identical 6-1, 6-3 scores. Ariail and Baumgardner overwhelmed Graham and Baldwin, 6-0, 6-0, to complete
the 'Cat sweep.

The ‘Cats journeyed to the University of North Carolina Monday and found a not-so-accommodating UNC squad. They could manage only
two sets as the Tar Heels handed them their first 9-0 defeat of the season.

The Davidson netters topped off a highly successful Spring Sports Day Saturday with a 6-1 trouncing of Appalachian State. Norman
Chambers, Appalachian’s number one man, ran his consecutive winning streak to 41 games by defeating Dick Hurd, 6-4, 6-3. The
‘Cats then took over and dominated play for the remainder of the afternoon. Council defeated J. W. Isenhouer, 6-1, 6-0;
Cleveland took Bob Barbara 6-4, 6-0; Frank polished off Lawrence Satterfield, 6-1, 6-2; and Ariail smacked Bill 6-0, 6-3. In
the two doubles matches, Schutt-Council defeated Chambers-Isenhouer, 6-4, 6-2, and Baumgardner-Cleveland took Barbara-Satterfield 6-3, 6-3 to give Davidson its first
victory over the mountain boys in several years.

What's in store for you?

Once you wear the gold bars of a second lieutenant in the United States Air Force, you may fly an
aircraft entrusted with a vital defense mission. Or you may lead a research team tackling problems on the frontier of
knowledge. You'll be helping to run an organization that’s essential to the safety of the free world. Sounds like you'll
be called on to shoulder a good deal of responsibility, doesn’t it? But when you come right down to it,
that’s what your college years have been preparing you for. You've got ability and a good education. Now's the time
to put them to work! If you're not already enrolled in ROTC, you can earn your commission at Air Force
Officer Training School—a three-month course that’s open to both men and women college graduates. To apply, you must be within
210 days of graduation.
