PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1964

Davidsonian Move Okayed: Six Pages Begin In Fall

Beginning in September, THE DAVIDSONIAN will appear in weekly six-page issues instead of the present four-page form. A $2500 addition
to the present budget has made this increase possible for the upcoming year. Whereas the present paper devotes only the
first and fourth pages of each issue to campus news, next fall's paper will permit an additional page to be
used for such material. The remaining extra page will make room for more feature and editorial material plus increased sports
coverage.

Ninety percent of the $2500 increase will be covered by the newspaper itself. The remaining ten percent will be provided
by the college. This increase in the size of the paper will entail an increase in the size of the
staff, necessitating a recruiting drive in the fall of the upcoming year.

In further action, the Publications Board elected new officers for the year 1964-'65. Replacing David Stitt, former Editor-in-Chief of the
newspaper, as president of the board will be Dibble. Ben Moore, business manager of Scripts 'n' Pranks, will replace Roger
David, associate editor of this year’s Wildcat Handbook, as secretary of the Board.

FOR COMING YEAR Groups Pick New Officers

Campus organizations that have already elected officers for next year include:

Le Cercle Francais — president, Dan Broadhead; vice-president, Robert Chumbly; secretary, Buford Norman; treasurer, Tom Peaden.

Omicron Delta Kappa — president, Ronnie Reese; vice-president, David Walker; secretary-treasurer, John Barrow; parliamentarian, Rick von Unwerth.

Westminster Fellowship — moderator, Charles Raynal; vice-moderator, Bill Rule; secretary-treasurer, George Brown; synod representative, Bill Norfleet.

Sigma Pi Sigma — president, Al Callender; vice president, Tom Watson.

Alpha Phi Omega — president, Hoyle Setzer; 1st vice-president, Tommy Heffner; 2nd vice-president, Wirt Neale; 3rd vice-president, Pat Fisher.

Baptist Student Union — president, Jay Rogers; vice-president, Hugh Allen; treasurer, John Barrow.

Philanthropic Literary Society — president, Jim Pepper; vice-president, Dan Broadhead; secretary, Bill Dale; treasurer, John Gresham.

Auction To Relieve Exam Pressures

Bargain hunters, under-achievers, and those interested in taking a break from studying for ROTC exams should attend the annual auction
to be held in the Morrison Room of the student union Tuesday night, May 26, at 7:30. On sale will
be anything put up for auction by a faculty member or student interested in picking up some quick cash. After
the start of exams, those interested in offering an article for sale may leave notice at the information desk regarding
the nature of the item and the minimum amount for which it may be sold. Objects up for bid will
be on display in the Morrison Room on the Monday preceding the auction. Dr. W. O. Puckett of the biology
department will appear with five other faculty members as auctioneers.

Order Name Cards for Your Commencement Announcements (Printed) 100 — $3.00 DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY Phone TW2-6651

Whither Thou Goest

Handy Bible which fits conveniently into your glove compartment is ever beside you offering peace of mind and inner security
wherever you may be. Everyone can benefit by having this King James, Viennese Bible at his fingertips. Let the auto-Bible
accompany you in your travels. Only 5 dollars. Luxury edition, leather bound with gold inlay 10 dollars, pre-paid by check,
cash or money order, return postage guaranteed. Sorry, no COD’s. BIBEL-SERVICE, Vienna 13, Braunschweiggasse 13.

We will dryclean, mothproof and store YOUR WINTER CLOTHES For the Summer JACKSON CLEANERS Across from Gulf Service Station —
Main Street

Girl talk. Boy talk. All talk goes better refreshed. Coca-Cola — with a lively lift and never too sweet —
refreshes best. Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord Concord, North Carolina

Main Street After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night: Brown, Griffin, Moore, Tilley, Burts, Kelton,
Patterson, W. B. Tucker, Currie, Labban, Polley, Welsh, Lilly, Richey, White, Dagey, Lilly, Williams, Driesell, Lloyd, Scott, Wilson, Gable, MacCormac,
Swicord, Young.

By TOM LOFLIN

“Oh, yes, we think about it all the time.” The words, spoken by Charlotte physician Thomas D. Sparrow after the
Trustee meeting yesterday, sum up a problem that has constantly plagued President D.G. Martin since he assumed the presidency of
the college six years ago. The “it” referred to was Davidson's athletic policy in general and a constant winner in
football in particular; the speaker was the vice-chairman of the Trustees and chairman of the Trustee Committee of Student Health
and Physical Education.

The problem referred to by the “it” is perhaps the most delicate and carefully guarded of all affairs with which
the Trustees deal. And yet a small group of men who compose the Health and Physical Education Committee, and at
the same time the Athletic Council, continuously keep their demands for a bigger and better athletic program before the Trustees
and constantly request Martin and the school administration to raise more money for athletics or to divert to athletics money
used in other phases of the school.

Trustee committees are actually much like those of the Senate, and a few men with seniority can hold power over
a large majority, an administrator reports. In the case of athletics, Sparrow is joined by two other committeemen, D. R.
LaFar of LaFar Mills in Gastonia and John I. Smith, vice president of Abney Mills in Travelers Rest, S. C.
The strongest voice behind the committee and those favoring championship football belongs to a Durham physician, James F. Hendrix. All
four of these trustees are members of the powerful Executive Committee.

At the Trustee meeting in February, the football supporters took up a large amount of time in presenting what one
source close to the Trustees calls “a crash program for winning in football.” One source reports that the amount of
money being contemplated by the proponents of a crash program is $100,000. Martin said that while football was considered at
some length, no specific sum was mentioned at the meeting. “The whole problem was referred back to the committee in
charge of athletics,” he commented. Sparrow affirmed that his committee brought up football, as well as other parts of the
athletic program, but added that no concrete proposals were made. “We hope, however, that something will develop along the lines
of football next year.”

Nothing was done about football at the meeting yesterday; Sparrow's committee merely presented a routine report on the state of
athletics. While Sparrow would not indicate the action he hoped to propose next year, he would talk about some of
the ways he thinks the athletic program here can be improved. He said that increased scholarships in football and perhaps
some new ones to subsidize sports now receiving less attention would be beneficial.and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till
9:00 P.M. are in order. “As it is now, the amount of scholarships in football and basketball (the only two
sports Davidson subsidizes) depends upon the amount of the Living Endowment (money donated to the college) for immediate use," he
explained. “This, of course, changes annually. Because athletic scholarships only get a certain amount of this money (34 per cent),
under the current system now set up, it will be impossible to increase scholarships.”

Sparrow was, however, unable or unwilling to give a plan he thought would be best for changing the present system.
Sparrow also said, “We need a little more system to our football coaching. For instance, we now have only one
full-time coach in football. We at least need a freshman coach and maybe another full-time assistant. I think,” he went
on, “that if the field were lighted better, we would improve gate receipts and could use that money to help
support an expanded football program.”

Sparrow said that his committee had asked the administration to study the feasibility of expanding the gymnasium by adding more
basketball courts, a swimming pool, and handball courts. Martin said that the administration had not yet started its study but
added, “I would like to see facilities where every boy could participate in some sport. But we just cannot get
them there tomorrow, as some people seem to think.” The president estimated that it would cost as much as $1
million for a gymnasium expansion such as that of Sparrow’s suggestion. “It’ll be a tough job to raise that much
money for an addition to a gym already built and named for someone else,” he warned.

While tying up Trustee meetings with the desire to bring back the good old days when little Davidson could play
Carolina evenly in football, Sparrow and his committee might harm the institution they are responsible for developing. In addition to
the loss of valuable time when the board members could be considering things that need action—such as the library or
changing the masthead of THE DAVIDSONIAN—there is a perfect example from the February meeting to illustrate this point: A leading
developer of colleges in the country, a man connected with several important foundations, and the educational consultant for a national
publication, sat in on the meeting to gather material for a book he is writing about Trustees at colleges all
over the country. He arrived at the meeting about the time the football supporters dug in for a good stand
on a “crash program.” A member of the administration, who wishes not to be identified, reports that the educational consultant
was unhappy with the Trustees. The gist of his feeling was that if Davidson wanted to go on a crash
program for football, then it was not the type of school that he would select as a recipient of foundation
grants.

The president managed to explain the situation well enough to him so that he left satisfied. Martin’s quiet diplomacy, and
his value to Davidson, were illustrated this week when the college received a letter from the visitor praising Martin's leadership
and calling Davidson one of the best schools in the nation. Evidently, Martin, despite the Trustees, sold an important man
on Davidson.

While Sparrow and Hendrix, who reportedly drives from Duke Hospital in Durham to every home Davidson football game and most
basketball games, are proposing to do this college a tremendous service, football coach Bill Dole casts a wary eye at
any crash program. Dole stated his position simply today. “I think if we had just 12 scholarships to give each
year, we could compete in the Southern Conference. Our problem has always been a lack of depth in comparison with
other schools.” Dole said that the total of 49 scholarships for a four-year period would give him a squad of
at least 60 men, counting freshmen, each year. Dole will have $67,026 next year for 40 scholarships, or an average
of 10 per year—two less per year than what Dole thinks is necessary. Assuming a frozen tuition, over a four-year
period, two extra scholarships per year would cost—based on next year’s $1800 a year—$14,400. Dole admitted that some adjustment would
have to be made in the Living Endowment percentage to give him a set number of scholarships for each year.
He suggested that a set amount of money be allotted, instead of a fixed percentage which has the handicap of
making the amount of money he gets fluctuate according to the gifts the college receives.

But Dole said that the system whereby football and basketball get a part of the Living Endowment is a much
better financial arrangement than the old Wildcat Club idea that was erased by the Trustees in the mid-1950s. Under the
old setup, athletic scholarships came entirely from donations to the Wildcat Club, which actually had to compete against the college
itself in raising money. Because the Living Endowment has mushroomed, athletic scholarships are now receiving much more than what they
had been getting under the old arrangement.

The members of the Trustees connected to the “crash football program” might also consider what basketball coach Charles “Lefty” Driesell
did in national circles without an increase in scholarships. He will only have a total of $19,403 for his scholarships
for next year. The attitude of the Faculty and of important men connected in other ways with the college must
also be taken into account by Sparrow. There has been a growing sentiment on the faculty against subsidized athletics in
general. In the last regular Faculty meeting of the year, the professors voted overwhelmingly to approve Dr. Paul Marrotte’s request
that President Martin interpret the exact powers the Athletic Committee of the Faculty have. “We have been operating under no
specific directive,” Marrotte said. His motion asked Martin “to submit a report to the faculty outlining the role of the
Athletic Committee by next December 1.” Martin said that he would consult with committees and individuals on the Board of
Trustees before making a decision. He appeared doubtful, however, that the Trustees would want to give any definite power to
the Faculty in the area of athletics. “The Trustees look upon athletics as their area,” he explained. “They feel more
competent here than in educational areas where they are quite willing for the Faculty to exercise power.”

Although Marrotte’s motion has nothing to do with the question of subsidized athletics at this time, it is significant to
point out that the question has come up several times in the past. Dr. W. O. Puckett said that in
his 18 years at Davidson he had been associated with three committees investigating alternatives to subsidized athletics. In 1954, a
combined Trustee-Faculty committee studied the matter at the request of then-President John R. Cunningham. On April 27 of that year,
the group made a recommendation to abolish subsidized athletics and set up what it called an “Ivy Group” of schools
which would compete on a basis of no athletic subsidies. The proposal began: “We recommend to the Trustees that they
authorize the President of the College to extend an invitation to a selected group of Colleges and Universities, asking them
to join with us in setting up a Conference with a view of abolishing subsidized athletics at the earliest possible
date.” The proposal then went on to set up rules and regulations for the proposed new conference and to state
the rules which were to remain in effect long enough so that players already in school with scholarships would not
lose theirs. It also affirmed what many of the Faculty believe today: “... In each institution (of the conference) the
academic authorities should control athletics.” Puckett, who was secretary of the committee then, signed the proposal, as did Dean of
the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston and the following faculty members, all of whom are still here: W. G. McGavock (now
on the Faculty Athletic Committee), J. T. Kimbrough, and J. W. Reid. Cunningham also signed, along with the trustees on
the committee, including the president of the Trustees then and now, Dr. J. McDowell Richards. Richards said yesterday that he
has changed his mind somewhat since the report. “Today I would like to see us go along with a good
program in the Southern Conference,” he stated. “I would like to see us have a fifty-fifty chance to compete in
football, and I think we have that under the present program.” He then smiled slowly and said in reference to
possible big-time football at Davidson, “You may rest assured that the Trustees will consider very slowly and carefully any change
in the current athletic program.”

McCutchen Cops Award For Photo

Joe McCutchen, former photography editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, has won honorable mention in the Collegiate Photo Contest that was recently
held in Columbia, Mo. The prize-winning photograph, showing Don Davidson scoring in this season's first West Virginia basketball game, appeared
in the January 10 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. McCutchen, a senior from Waycross, Ga., won this distinction in competition with
photographers representing 60 of the nation’s best college newspapers.
