DC POLITICS UNDERWAY (See Page Two) VOL. LI

BIRTH OF A PLEDGE

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Bewildered freshman asks directions on Patterson Court today.

‘POLITICAL SCENE: 1964’ Y Series Opens Tuesday

By JOHN BAILEY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Professor Robert Triffin of Yale University will initiate the annual “Great Issue” series in chapel on Tuesday, September 22. This year’s program is entitled ‘Political Campaign: 1964.” Speakers this year include people from diverse fields of politics.

Dr. Triffin has been professor of economics at Yale since 1951. He has written a number of articles and a book dealing with the world economy: Illusion of the International Monetary System. Referred to as a “world shaker,” Triffin is an economic scientist and one who has developed a revolutionary economic idea on a global scale. He has served in advisory capacities to many countries and was a member of President Kennedy's task force on the balance of payments committee.

Political Campaign: 1964 is designed to present and discuss the issue of the coming election rather than the personalities of the political hopefuls. It will open with a series of talks by scholarly members of the political field, such as Davidson's Drs. Secor and Patterson. Dr. Marshall Shulman of Harvard, chairman of the Russian Research Center, will be on campus, in addition to others as yet unannounced. After this introduction to the campaign, it is hoped that an inside view of the political arena may be afforded by various holders of office and others who are closely associated with the candidates. Governor George Wallace of Alabama and Senator Jennings Randolph of West Virginia are two of the speakers already committed to Davidson.

Fred Sackett, chairman of the “Great Issues” committee, hopes to have a current historian, a well-known news commentator, and an author (possibly Theodore White-Making of the President: 1960) present a resume of the election as the conclusion of the program.

Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1964

NASTY NEW HELMETS TOP ‘64 WILDCATS (See Page Three) NUMBER ONE

203 Freshmen Pledge Greek Chapters Today
73 Percent Of Class Take Traditional Walk

Two hundred and three freshmen strolled down Patterson Fraternity Court this afternoon as Greeks rushed out from their 12 doorways to greet them. This represents approximately 73 percent of the Class of 1968. Cheers went up seconds after 3 p.m. when the first freshman indicated his choice and continued until pledging closed at 4:30. The pledging period was preceded by a period of silence which went into effect last night at 10 o'clock. No rushee could have further contact with any fraternity man until the close of pledging this afternoon.

Today’s pledging brought to a close one of the most hectic Rush Weeks in recent years as both semester classes and rush parties conflicted throughout part of the week. The first series of parties ran through Wednesday night with two nights of re-dates Thursday and Friday. The 73 percent figure is slightly smaller than the comparable figure last fall when 195 or roughly 75 percent pledged fraternities at the conclusion of Rush Week. On the other hand, the figure is slightly larger than the 59 percent figure of two years ago when 182 freshmen pledged on Pledge Saturday.

ATO
Geoff Birkhead, Lowell Bryan, Andy Clay, Holmes Eleazer, Vance Hughes, Jim McLaughlin, John Morse, Bill Schmickle, Billy Thebault, Cliff Wheeler, Ben Cannon, Nat Heyward.

BETA
Frank Angus, Frank Bass, Andy Beard, Mickey Brabham, Tucker Dalton, Pete Glidewell,

ATTENTION! REPORTERS!
A few coveted positions remain on THE DAVIDSONIAN staff for 1964-65. Vacancies existing include news and sports writers, feature writers, copy readers, photographers and cartoonists. Interested freshmen and upperclassmen should report to Green Room on the second story of College Union at 4:30 p.m. Sunday.

P. Nicholls Duo Sports Marine Corps Savvy
By BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

The 1964 edition of the college community reveals two new faces in the husband-wife team of Mr. and Mrs. Peter Nicholls. Already known to many as the owner of a variety store on the lower end of Main Street, Nicholls now manages the combined bookstore-student store in the new wing of the Union; his wife is the new supervisor of dormitories.

Nicholls, a reformed “damn Yankee” by admission, has lived in Davidson a little over a year and in Charlotte for three and one-half years previous to that. His work in retail sales with Franklin-Simon department stores brought him south from New Jersey, his home state and place of residence for most of his life. “This is a new business for me,” said Nicholls, “but I’m catching on pretty fast.” He went on to note that there have been no basic changes in the operations of activities in the Union wing. “We want this to be a place where students can browse and congregate but at the same time we want to show a profit.”

From her office in Belk meanwhile, Mrs. Nicholls encounters the Davidson student in a completely different capacity. Commenting on her approach to what can be a very trying job, she said, “I knew Mrs. Moore and the sentiment she enjoyed among the student body. It would be a difficult job filling her shoes, so I brought my own.” Mrs. Nicholls is assisted in her work by Mrs. Harmon Gillespie, a Mooresville native whose husband works for Carolina Freight Company in Charlotte.

Washington, D. C., provided the background against which Nicholls met his future wife, a native Pennsylvanian. They were both serving in the Marine Corps, she having just recently graduated from Park College in Missouri with a language degree. “The Marine Corps was my only other experience working with men as I do here,” said Mrs. Nicholls, “and it has proven to be very enjoyable work.” In addition to memories, the Nicholls family has accumulated over the years four children — ranging in age from four to sixteen.

Both husband and wife indicated that they felt Davidson to be an ideal place in which to make their home. Nicholls pointed out the growth potential of the area, the convenient facilities and the recreational opportunities, as deciding factors in his move here last year. The latest additions to the ‘Davidson family” seem to feel they have made a good choice.

Jake Jacobson, Jay James, Bobby Lane, George Matheny, Johnny Miller, Mike Mooty, Tupper Morehead, Eddie Polk, Frank Powell, Billy Taylor.

KA
Rob Johnson, Tom Irons, Steve Davis, Buck Coyne, Dick Lindsey, Rick Harrell, Pinky Hatcher, Charlie Gorham, Kirk Reed, Gus Cochran, Chris Hudgins, Harry McMullan, Bruce Vanderbloemen, M. L. Cannon, Johnny Hunter.KAPPA SIG
Rod Knowles, Keith Williamson, Henry Wilmer, Scott Sinnock, Johnny Giles, Bo Hartley, Martin Brackett, Tommy Cox, Al Rogers, Dan Herron.

PHI DELT
Don Crowder, Ted Howell, Ronnie Hunt, George Leight, Buddy Newsome, Bris Rodgers, Steve Sands, Ted Schabel, Chip Scharfschwerdt, George Solley, Dick Stoops, Kit Thompson.

PHI GAM
Ken Kendall, Ted Horne, Richard Martin, Neil Holmcomb, Andy Bird, David Sigler, Bill Eaker, Rusty Brannon, Bill Andrews, Ross Dorneman, Gary Peklo, Charles Perry, Tommy Caldwell, Nibs Stroupe, Jim McMillan, Benjie Goodman, Doug Rhymes, Mike Westall, Chip Bellamy, Walter Greene, David King, Karl Beck, Eddie Beach, Don Sweet, Ken Vogel, Tom Newberry.

PIKA
Tom Cook, Tom Brown, Lewis Davis, Ed Winslow, Tom Kastner, Bob Finlayson, Dick Jenkins, Mike Yarborough, Chuck Byrd, Lyle Smith, Mike Carroll, Duncan McRae, Rick Lonon, Jim Furr, Frank Shepard.

PI KAPP
Neal Martin, Skeet Willingham, Pat Patton, Grey Pash, James MacLeod, John Flowers, David Clark, Rawley Turner, Cary White, Gus Kaufman, Don Payne, William Hunter, Bill Walker, David McInnis, Tommy Kirtley, Charles Orr, Sam McLaughlin, Ken Hayes, Yates Fletcher, Mike Powell, Pete Crowell, Mike Bates, John Jones.

SAE
Dickie Dickens, Gresh Bayne, John McKenzie, Skip Balsley, Bill Watson, John Futch, Bill Thorne, Barry Bishop, Lindsay Davis, Johnny Wessell, Bob Irons, Heyward Carter, Charlie Richards, Chet Davidson, Stan Link, Paul Brown, Bob Williams, Mackey McDonald, Neal Reynolds, Westray Battle.

SIGMA CHI
Glenn Withrow, Jim Selley, Clay Ford, Mike Milton, Tom Clayton, David Perrin, Ben Lahey, Doug Maxwell, Bill Bernard, Rich Mildner, Bruce Weihe, Tom Rhodes, Larry Norfleet, Bo Perry, Woody Faulk, John Allen, Bob Pryor, Mike Fitzpatrick.

SIGMA NU
Bill Barnette, Bobby Burch, Tom Callahan, Bob Dewell, Dirk Galbraith, John Mason, Rudy Mauney, Bill Oelrich, J.P. Schrader, Dave White, Jack Woodall.

SIG EP
Bill Anderson, Tom Bellamy, Steve Brown, Tommy Bryant, Larry Caldwell, Bill Compton, Steve Couch, Joe Dial, Doug Doty, Roland Eidson, Frank Fleming, Bill Haught, Sam Hines, Bob Howard, Steve Howe, Danny Layman, Bob McKellar, Mike Norris, Ronald Outen, Jim Reihoehl, Ronald Riddle, Jack Smith, Ken Tarleton, Toby Watt, Bill Wheeler.

Charlotte Pastor Will Open Vespers
Dr. Carlyle Marney will speak at Vespers Sunday night. Rev. Marney, presently pastor of Myers Park Baptist Church in Charlotte, was formerly pastor of the First Baptist Church in Austin, Texas. He is a graduate of Carson-Newman College and Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. While serving his congregation in Texas, Dr. Marney was professor of Christian ethics at the Austin Presbyterian Seminary. Professors will open their homes for student visitors after vesper services beginning the first Sunday in October.

Drama Auditions Will Begin
Tryouts for Shakespeare’s Coriolanus, the first Drama production of the season, will be held in Hodson Hall on Monday, Sept. 21, and Tuesday, Sept. 22, beginning at 7:30 p.m. All students are eligible to try out. Experience is not necessary. The cast is large, demanding at least 30 men and five women and the number could easily grow to 50. Along with about 12 major roles, there are many excellent character parts. Also, many extras will be needed in the production. Scheduled for the first week in November, it is a political tragedy, the story of a completely honest and courageous man seeking public office. His refusal to play the “politician” and pacify the common people leads him ultimately to the tragic conclusion. Neglected for many years, Coriolanus has been making a successful comeback in the theatre recently with such actors as Olivier, Burton, and Quayle in the title role. Rehearsals will be conducted on a scene basis, so that only the people involved with the scenes will have to be at rehearsal. The procedure for tryouts will be different from the pattern previously set in that only certain scenes will be read. These will be Act II Scenes i, ii, iii, and Act III Scene i. Books are on Overnight Reserve in the Library for examination.

FRESHMAN REGULATIONS
The legal life of the freshman regulations has been shortened to three weeks, if the class of 1968 wins in the yearly Freshman-Sophomore contest. Freshman Advisor John Barrow explained the reasons for this change as follows: Two other changes will be noted in the regulations. Through Spring, there is no longer a “grown-up” fast. Regulation number three takes effect on October 1. Freshmen must place namecards on the doors of their dormitory rooms. Freshmen must wear rat plates at all times on campus. Freshmen must speak respectfully to everyone. Freshmen must wear rat caps whenever out of doors on the campus. Freshmen must know the college yell and songs by the first pep rally; must attend all home athletic contests and all pep rallies. Freshmen must pass a test given by the Honor Council concerning their knowledge of the school songs and important individuals on the faculty, administration, and in Student Government. If the Freshmen win the contest, all regulations, except regulation 2, will terminate. If the Sophomores win, the entire set of regulations will continue in effect until Homecoming. Rat plates will be worn until Homecoming.

Revised Orientation Program Is Effective
Sights higher and wider. Freshman Advisor John Barrow said, “These things have been left to the hall counselors and to the Activities Fair this year. By doing this, we thought we'd concentrate on a broader theme.” With Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Barrow settled on “Davidson — A Statement of Purpose” as the period's central subject. The college's statement of purpose provided a working basis. For each of the four sections in the Trustee’s draft, a corresponding address was delivered. The college sent information sheets bearing a copy of the document and a list of suggested summer reading to all freshmen and to their group leaders in preparation for the six-day session. Freshmen began checking in at the College Union on Thursday, September 10, receiving their name tags and dormitory assignments. On the same day, those interested took special exams in engineering, biology, and chemistry. These were used in determining their future courses of study. In the evening, the Freshmen attended a welcoming banquet and heard remarks from President of the College D. Grier Martin and a speech on “Davidsoniana” by history Professor C. G. Davidson. Dr. George C. Buttrick of Garrett Seminary in Evanston, IL, delivered an address the next day on “Christian Commitment.” A question and answer period followed. “I've been impressed by this freshman class in several ways, especially by their intellectual capacities as they demonstrated them with Buttrick,” Advisor Barrow said of this experience.

GROUP DISCUSSIONS
Freshmen then met in groups to discuss the talk, with upperclassmen serving as leaders and faculty members providing additional guidance. The discussions did not work out ideally in this first year. One group leader reported that “nothing happened” in his group, but another told of one interested freshman who sparked the others into participation. Group discussions also followed the three remaining talks. Dr. D. D. Rhodes of the Bible Department substituted for the scheduled speaker, Dr. W. C. Archie of the N. C. State Board of Higher Education. Rhodes spoke Saturday on “A Community of Learning.” On Monday, Dr. Paul Clyde of the Duke Endowment in Durham spoke on “Education in the Liberal Arts,” and on Tuesday, Dean of Faculty F. W. Johnston completed the quartet of addresses with “Challenge.” Dr. Philip B. Secor provided a supplementary talk on “Politics: 1964.”

ACTIVITIES FAIR
Friday night in the Union, various campus organizations were represented with booths in the Activities Fair. This was the freshman's primary source of information about the opportunities open to him in such things as the choral groups, the campus publications, and the honorary fraternities. Saturday night was the Queens-Davidson freshman mixer at Queens College in Charlotte. As the Orientation period drew to a close, Barrow had words of praise for Dean Burts. “Earlier I thought this was going to be the kind of thing that I would be glad to be over with, but he has put the program together so effectively and worked out the details so smoothly that I'll be sorry to be finished with Orientation.”