Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Equal Time...

In years gone by, the visit of a Reynolds “lecturer” has been an occasion. Davidson would welcome an eminent personality into the community for a period of time, entertain him, squeeze him thoroughly to extract the juice of his talents and reflections.

Archibald MacLeish did not fly in for a lecture; he spoke, read his work, visited with students, discussed issues and shared his light for a full two days. Gilbert Highet brought his wife, and the two of them entered with students into a rewarding dialogue in the broad field of letters which they, together, represent. George Buttrick spent two days lecturing, preaching and hashing over theology and Christian thought ... WITH and FOR STUDENTS. Generally, two chapel talks, or perhaps a discussion in the form of a voluntary chapel, have been offered to students in addition to the lecture—with time to reflect and digest in discussion.

The initial Reynolds lecture of 1964 was not that way. Noted poet and critic Mark Van Doren delivered two formal readings of his work and answered questions at coffee-receptions. The light he had to share with us passed over most of us; we didn’t get to know him. Mark Van Doren could have enriched our thoughts as others have done. But we couldn't get at him—really sound him out—in the scant time he was with us. The Davidson College catalogue says the Reynolds program “brings to campus for two or three days outstanding lecturers of the world”—that’s what the Reynolds Foundation pays for. “Two or three days” ... It would seem that the evening of one day and the morning of another is going a little underboard.

In High Places...

Senator Goldwater was spending the day in Omaha and Denver driving deeper the thorn of immorality in government, the issue which Goldwater strategists have found to be the most effective. The senator was charging that the Johnson administration was a corruption-tainted “private club” whose leader was obstructing justice in the Bobby Baker case.

Meanwhile, White House Press Secretary George E. Reedy was holding an extraordinary news conference at New York’s Waldorf Astoria: Walter Jenkins, special assistant to the President, was resigning. The cause: disclosure of his arrest Oct. 7 on a disorderly conduct charge involving “indecent gestures.”

Who is Walter Jenkins? Shortly after the succession of Lyndon Johnson to the Presidency, U. S. News & World Report reported the following in its Dec. 9, 1963 issue: “A ‘man Friday.’ The man who over the years more than any other has run the Johnson office is Walter Jenkins, a 45-year-old Texan. Upon his graduation from the University of Texas, Mr. Jenkins went directly to work for Mr. Johnson. Excepting time out for a losing campaign for Congress and in the Army, he never has left Mr. Johnson.

“Mr. Jenkins is sure to be in an office close to that of Mr. Johnson. His position will probably be that of director of the staff. He is quiet and efficient, with a facility for anticipating the things Mr. Johnson wants, and has learned, it is said, to think like the President. Mr. Jenkins is to be a key man.”

The availability of key classified information to Jenkins is obvious. And the vulnerability of such a man to blackmail by enemies of our country is likewise obvious. Republican National Chairman Dean Burch has raised this question: “Knowing, as he must, the vulnerability of morals offenders to blackmail, the President should tell us whether Mr. Jenkins was permitted to sit in on meetings of the National Security Council, meetings of the cabinet and otherwise was given access to top military secrets.”

Shocking in this instance is the noticeable lack of a security investigation. Jenkins was last checked by the FBI in 1958, one year before arrest—previously unknown to the public—on a charge of “disorderly conduct (pervert).” To what extent have other key governmental figures been screened before gaining access to classified information, information on which the safety of our country and its people rests? And we also ask: is it conceivable that Lyndon Johnson—the man who is reputedly tuned in on every Washington grapevine—did not know of the 1959 arrest of Jenkins, his confidant of 25 years. And if the President was aware of the arrest, why was no action taken?

The Walter Jenkins episode compels us to focus more sharply on the question that Senator Goldwater has been asking with increasing frequency in the past few weeks: Is there not a tragic lack of concern for morality in the high circles of our government today? The senator has brought up the name of Bobby Baker, the name of Billie Sol Estes, and has questioned the methods used by the President and his family in acquiring their fortune. From the President there comes no explanation. From Democratic apologists there comes no explanation, just the glib answer: “There’s never been an administration in American history where there wasn’t a scandal.”

We have not checked the validity of such an assertion. We do not intend to check the validity of such an assertion. To say “There’s never been an administration ...” is evading the question. The statement has the adolescent ring of “But, Mother, all the other kids do...”

The American electorate has a right to know all the details of these cases. And the President has the responsibility to reveal all the details.

Associate Editors
Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth
Tim Kimrey

Managing Editors
John Todd
Mike Harrington

News Editor
Rufus Adair

Feature Editor
Bob Strauser

Sports Editor
Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor
Bill Briggs

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Copy Editor
Allen Webb

Asst. Copy Editors
Bill Aitken
Calvin Zon

Photographers
Sam Smith
Tom Thel

Cartoonists
Jack Lingle
Rufus Hallmark
Erskine Sproul
Lou Hill

Advertising Mgr.
Bob Cameron

Asst. Business Mgr.
Irvine Welling

Contributors this week:
Steve Brown, Paul Marion, John Allen, Sam Boyte, Palmer Kirkpatrick, Neville Patterson, Tom Cook, Larry Norfleet, Jamie Bryant, Bob Vance, Tim Rothermel, David Coffey, Joe Ford, Walt Drake, Bo Perry, Jack Augustitus, Paul Marion, Michael Light, Harry Carr, Buck Lawrimore, Mike Bates, Dick Spencer, Tom Frist, Don Davis, and Bob Howard.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Midwest A Battleground If Goldwater Closes Gap
By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Managing Editor

With less than three weeks remaining until Election Day of November 3, Senator Barry Goldwater is running poorly in the Midwest, an area in which he must run strong to have any hope of winning. Both basic GOP campaign strategy and desperate plans born out of last-minute panic call for getting at least 85 electoral votes out of the Midwestern states. Can Goldwater run this well? All present indications say no, but hold on to your money until the last minute in this section. Johnson is still far ahead, but there is a shift in public sentiment starting to turn all over the nation—expressed as a whole in the Midwest. Goldwater is beginning a slow gain in polls and this should continue up until November 3. Whether or not he can completely close the gap is the question. Lyndon Johnson seems to have peaked in his campaign and from now on will need to hold the votes he has while Barry Goldwater is still coming up fast.

The ironic part of this shift in popular opinion is that very little of this is due to the campaigns being waged on an obtuse and panic-stricken level by the Goldwater-Miller team. People seem to be awakening to certain issues—despite the incredible and ridiculous campaign of mudslinging by GOP unknown William Miller—that the confident Johnson air has thus far managed to hide or dodge. News analysis indicates Goldwater’s gains appear to come in several areas; (1) Many Republican “defectors” are now

WHAT'S YOUR OPINION OF MODERN POETS AS TO THEIR USEFULNESS?

I COULDN'T REALLY SAY; THEY SERVE SOME PURPOSE, I GUESS.

YET THERE ARE SOME WHO MAINTAIN THAT...re- turning to the fold, thus soften- ing the impact of the “front- lash”; (2) Loose ethical stand- ards in Washington (reflected in the Bobby Baker case and the Johnson fortune controversy) are working against the party in power. Most important though seems to be that voters are awaken- ing to Democratic equivocation on the issue of who is most likely to get us into war — Goldwater is being accused of reckless and warlike policies on the one hand while on the other hand, the Democratic ad- ministration is waging a major war in South Viet Nam. If anything can defeat in- cumbent President Lyndon Johnson at this point, it is a worsening crisis in South Viet Nam and the lax ethical stand- ards in the Capital.

Kentucky: Johnson takes this state rather easily.
Tennessee: Here is where Goldwater is making some gains; right now he is slightly ahead.
Missouri: Johnson is still ahead, but Goldwater is closing a gap in this state.
Oklahoma: Lead in this state right now seems to have switch- ed hands — put it in the un- decided column.
Kansas: Normally Republican, this farm state is going for LBJ.
Nebraska: Goldwater lead here not quite as large as ex- pected, but currently enough.
South Dakota: Crucial state for GOP strategy. Johnson slightly ahead.
Iowa: Heavy farm vote goes for Johnson this year.
North Dakota: Crucial state for GOP strategy. Close, but Johnson still leading.
Minnesota: Goldwater has very little chance of winning this state.
Wisconsin: Crucial state for GOP strategy. If the race is close anywhere, it will be close here — but Johnson still leads comfortably.
West Virginia: A landslide for Johnson.
Michigan: An intransigent governor and large labor vote, plus failure of “backlash” issue, add up to defeat for Goldwater.
Illinois: Crucial state for GOP strategy. Demo organization in Cook County and farm fears elsewhere mean that Lyndon Johnson leads in this state. But watch this state for sign of a changing trend.
Indiana: Crucial state for GOP strategy. If Republicans don’t carry this state, they won't carry a single one. Goldwater.
Ohio: Crucial state for GOP strategy. Conflicting polls and wild political analyses point up the fact that right now no one is sure which way this often-Republican state is going to turn. Keep a keen eye on politi- cal developments here — as of now it’s a toss-up.

Total electoral vote:
Goldwater: 30 electoral votes from 3 states.
Johnson: 116 electoral votes from 10 states.
Toss-up: 32 electoral votes.

Once More With Feeling
By TIM KIMREY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

THIS AWAITED TIME arrives just two weeks west of September. A red leaf prepares to leap downward from a tree-top; it will leave a void that will not be filled till Spring. Between now and then the wind will accom- pany a darkness broken only by a Birthday. Homecoming is at once the beginning and the end— a short-lived, bright flare between the green of summer and brown-grey of a slow winter. The morning air is crisp; brightly-colored wools dominate the scene. The post office is empty—letters will not come again until Tuesday. The stray dog on front-campus wonders where went his friends; he will get no attention until Monday. Davidson has become co-ed for the weekend.

FOR ONE, HOMECOMING is an appraisal of the first month’s romancing. “I picked you out, appointed you, in September... at a pledge party, across a loud room, saw you as you stood expectantly in front of your dorm... vowed to bring you here... knew that you would come if I was regular enough with the phone calls and the compliments and early enough with the Great Invitation.

“And so you are here. Now I wonder... will being to- gether for three days bring us to the realization that there is nothing for us? Our first test.”

THE SOFT, GREEN AISLES of Chambers auditorium are abuzz with social talk, carefree and meaningless. In a time of waiting, the accent is on being cool. The boy sits with his head resting on his hand, gazing around, his mind filled with the pleasantness of smooth legs, soft and shiny hair, the fragrance of perfume, feminine voices. As he stares at the hymnal rack on the seat in front of him, he knows that 10:20 Monday will find him sad—it is a long time ’till Midwinters. Now the girl drops her head lightly on his sweatered shoulder; “What will we do after the concert?” The lights dim; a spotlight ignites the green-curtained stage. The boy steals a glance to see if she is as beautiful in the semi-dark. “The Inter-Fraternity Council is pleased to present... .”

FOR ANOTHER HOMECOMING BRINGS a blind date—the reasons are varied. “Do you wonder why I am forced to ask someone I never met to this affair. Do you wonder who she was... and why? Your hair, your smile, your voice, and, yes, your passion—I have imagined many times. I know that you will not fit into my pre-conceived plans, nor I into yours.

“And so when you arrive, we must begin to fashion a new plan. Which of us will be disappointed? Where shall we each be a year from now? This moment could be a beginning... of something; but, again, it could be a seemingly endless tedium. I wonder. Well, we shall know soon.”

AROUND THEM SWIRLS a throng of partying, col- legians. Across the unevenly lit room his brothers dance—faces red and slightly glistening with perspi- ration... eyes talking to a moving partner, her natural hair bouncing on her shoulders. The drums, sax, guitar, drums—a loud symphony, music to forget about educa- tion by. The boy mixes them both a drink—hers only slightly alcoholic, his with just enough mixer to get it down. The combo plays on. People gather around the table, talking and laughing loudly, boys with arms around their dates, drinks in paper cups, cigarettes crushed on the floor. Good-looking people, and he is proud of her. Soon they will leave the party for a while; it will be cold out- side, but they will still go. It has been a long time since he has seen her.

FOR ANOTHER, HOMECOMING is the first chance to show her whence he came when they parted at a sum- mer’s end—after two high-school years of lunch-room blushes, satin and chiffon proms, cautious intimacies and early madras. “I am secretly proud for you to see me here with my books, my worries, my older thoughts... confident that you are awed by the reputation of this community of scholars. In my new manhood I am not willing to admit that I sometimes ached for your protection and for my former status. I have missed you this first month; will I miss you in the Spring?”

A GREY AND CHILLING DAWN creeps into the sky as the boy and girl speed back to Davidson. Long ago the combo unplugged their guitars and drove away in a crowded station-wagon. She is asleep now, her head rest- ing in his lap. A stray wisp of hair curls across her downy cheek; one small hand rests under her chin—a fragile wrist across her wrinkled blouse; beneath the taut skin of her neck he sees her heart pounding softly. The waking countryside prepares to greet another day. It is Sunday; the weekend is over; this afternoon he will tell her good-by with a brief, sad kiss. The boy closes his eyes for a split-second, smiles slowly, throws his cigarette out of the window, looks down at the girl and accelerates home to a few hours of sleep.

FOR HIM, HOMECOMING 1964 is just another step on Love’s amazing journey. She has come and gone and will come again. And the next time will be just like this one. And yet, it will be entirely different; because they both know that each moment together remains a monu- ment, whether big or small, to the fact that each time two people share a private glance of love, a glance of giving and not receiving, love is different every single moment.

“Into my daily routine you came—a lilting, gay in- trusion. Please return... soon.”

SUBSCRIPTION FORM
—I Enclose Four Dollars
—Bill Me Later at $4.50
—Renewal
—New Subscription
The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N. C.