Che Davidsonian: THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager

FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A Realistic Approach

We welcome the faculty change in academic regulations. Abolition of the academic probation system, easing the restriction of maximum class
hours per semester—we are extremely pleased to note these new changes as assumptions of student maturity. Likewise, we regard them
as challenges to individual student maturity. Ultimately they place more responsibility for intellectual achievement on the individual student.

Overhaul of the academic probation system has been overdue for some time. Required attendance at all classes and labs supposedly
has sought to provide “aid by exposure,” but the system in practice seems to have been more punitive than helpful.
Certain nebulous phrases in the regulations of academic probation were also confusing. For instance, the student on AP was allowed
to leave the campus and thus represent it in an unofficial capacity but was not allowed to represent it in
any official capacity.

The regulation concerning the maximum number of semester hours a student was permitted to take was also in need of
change. The original ruling that a student have a “B” average for the preceding semester to take more than 15
hours had already been modified in enough ways so as to make a new ruling imperative. This old regulation also
penalized a student whose grades had slipped below the required average for even one semester, with no consideration for his
overall college record.

But what these changes in faculty regulations constitute is an assumption: If the average student is given a greater share
of the responsibility for fulfilling the College academic requirements, he will show his maturity by living up to this responsibility.

There is a paradox in this College-student relationship. The College receives a young man deficient both in his intellectual and
emotional capacities and in four years is expected to turn out a mature person. But this transformation cannot be accomplished
unless the student is given a chance himself to handle part of the responsibilities for his education. At the same
time he is generally not mature enough to handle the entire load himself. Hence, there is always a thin line
which must be continually redrawn between College discipline and responsibility and student freedom and responsibility.

We commend the six members of the faculty committee for their work and salute the faculty for taking this step.
We also hope that students as individuals will take note of these new responsibilities and meet them in a mature
manner.

MLH

Vespers Revisited

A year has passed since the faculty granted students the option of attending the morning service of any Davidson church
in lieu of the regular vespers service at the College Church. The news was happily received last spring by the
Student Body ... and justly so. The faculty granted the student the liberty to select which church in Davidson he
would attend.

The step, we believe, was essentially an attempt to allow students more freedom. But in allowing more freedom the faculty
also paved the way for more meaningful worship: A limited amount of choice takes some of the bitterness out of
a system of compulsion. And the elimination of bitterness makes possible a more receptive attitude toward religions. No longer is
the student compelled to attend vespers which is little more than a mockery of religion. Granted, vespers is one of
the most entertaining hours of the week, but only the cynic would dare label the episode “spiritually moving.” Even outstanding
preachers can do but little before an antagonistic “congregation.” In vespers one does not realize the “community worship” ideal which
is sought. Rather one finds a maze of upside-down collection plates ... the latest novels ... snores ... the buzz
of conversation ... upside-down hymnals.

The optional worship system which has been in effect for the past year permits the student to escape the vespers’
farce by substituting a more meaningful service.

We believe the college should not only retain but also should broaden the scope of the present vespers rule. Attendance
should not be limited to Davidson churches; rather it should be expanded to all churches. Such an expansion of the
rule would enable the student to attend his hometown church on Sunday morning rather than vespers at Davidson. Further, changing
the requirement would enable the student whose faith is not represented by a church in Davidson to attend a service
of his faith in lieu of vespers at the College Church. Such a change would be in keeping with the
policy—carried out by the Admissions Office—of disregard for religion in accepting a student for Davidson. Such a change would be
in accord with the concept of toleration expounded throughout the course of a liberal education. And finally such a change
would aid Davidson in its goal of developing spiritually mature men: for religious opportunities would be greatly expanded while the
compulsion so harmful to religion would be minimized.

OLD

Wrong Number, Ring Again

Strange, how the idea of room phones struck some people—one might have thought that we had recommended sign-ins and sign-outs
nightly for the student body, rather than mere room phones. At any rate, since both proponents and enemies of the
proposal have attacked us, we feel we are headed in the right direction.

The response of the student body with respect to room phones being somewhat less than overwhelming, obviously we have erred
in our presentation of either the idea or its practice. Feeling inexorably determined to carry through this idea of room
phones, we, of course, see the fault lying with the explanation that appeared on page two of last week’s issue,
although we do admit a strong case can be made for additional pay phones or a switchboard.

A few misconceptions over the subject: (1) Room phone service would still be strictly optional. No student would be forced
to wallow in such luxury. (2) Room phones would facilitate inter-dorm communication—currently impossible by phone after 11 a.m. Wasted time
could be cut in half or used in more original ways. (3) Costs for room phones would still not be
prohibitive. If two students share a room, it is assumed the cost would be split. Two or three rooms could
share a phone—total cost per month could be less than a dollar per student, less than the price of one
coin call per day.

MLH

Associate Editors - Rick von Unwerth, Charles Ramberg, Jim Downey

Managing Editors — John Todd, Mike Harrington

Copy Editor — Rufus Adair

News Editor — Ron Snow

Feature Editor — Tom Loflin

Sports Editor — Johnny Clark

Asst. Business Mng. — Ned Kelly

Advertising Manager — Malcolm Lane

Circulation Manager — Sam Smith

Photographers — Tom Thel, Jack Lingle

Cartoonists — Johnny Wright, Rufus Hallmark, John Compton, Irvine Welling

Contributors this week: Allen Webb, Bill Norfleet, John Bailey, Bill Aitken, Bob Rhea, Bill Foster, David Coffey, George Fain, Buck
Lawrimore, Monty Johnson, Harry Carr, Wayne Lane, Forrest Roles, Don Tyler, Duncan Newcomer, Preston St. Clair, and Muldoon Briggs.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

New Militancy Invades Civil Rights Movement

By CALVIN ZON

The following is an attempt to deal with some of the basic questions which have arisen regarding the civil rights
movement, and which the recent trend of events, is bringing increasingly into focus. namely, the new militancy.

CIVIL VS. CRIMINAL DISOBEDIENCE: The abortive World's Fair stall-in was, I believe, both morally and tactically wrong. It posed a
needless threat to public safety. This kind of action only serves to alienate the ‘white liberal’ on whom the success
of the civil rights movement depends. Criminal disobedience, which is not aimed at ending a specific discriminatory practice, and often
involves unruly elements, is a far cry from civil disobedience.

Responsible people in the civil rights movement must stand firm against this type of action even at the risk of
being labeled “white liberal” and “Uncle Tom” just as moderate leaders like Martin Luther King have been branded as ‘radical’
and “extremist.” On the other hand, the whole civil rights movement should not be judged by the actions of a
few hotheads.

LEGISLATION: Compromise is the essence of the American system of government and civil rights legislation offers no exception to the
rule. One should not confuse a political compromise with a compromise of principle. However, Congressional failure to enact meaningful rights
legislation in the face of a Southern filibuster would spell disaster for social justice and social peace. The angry young
men who are appearing here and there in the rights movement might no longer be in the minority.

“FREEDOM NOW”: This byword of the Second American Revolution is a good slogan but makes for a dangerous hardening attitude
if taken too seriously. Ideally, ‘freedom’ should have existed in America from the beginning and we should have no need
for such slogans. Three hundred years may be “but a tick in the clock of eternity” as Kilpatrick phrased it,
but for a nation it is a long time and for an individual it is meaningless. Yet it will be
a matter of decades before full equality of opportunity is attained. In the meantime, the Negro must prepare himself, especially
in education, for the new worlds opening to him.

DE FACTO SCHOOL SEGREGATION: Demands for an end to school segregation resulting from discriminatory housing patterns have been behind recent
school boycotts and even violence in Northern cities. Although these demands are understandable, I believe that too much emphasis is
being placed on schemes to achieve “racial balance” by which school children are often ‘bussed’ long distances, being assigned on
the basis of race. More attention should be given to raising the quality of education under the existing system, and
effecting integrated housing, the root of the school problem.

“OUTSIDE AGITATORS”: This derogatory label has often been placed on Northerners who involve themselves in “Southern” racial problems. Yet one
should remember that we are all American citizens and, in a sense, citizens of the world. This term could rightly
be applied, however, to those who attempt to capture local leadership from responsible rights leaders, or who adopt hit-and-run, free-for-all
tactics.

COMMUNIST INFILTRATION: J. Edgar Hoover has stated that Communists have entered the ranks of the rights movement, but that no
leadership positions are held by Communists. This is not surprising since Communists can be expected to try to exploit situations
of unrest. What is remarkable is that Negroes have almost unanimously shirked the appeals of Communist and other extremist groups
despite a history of white suppression.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

‘Davidsonian’ And Sex: A Separation Urged

Editor’s note: Joon Yoo is a 1963-1964 Richardson Scholar from Seoul, South Korea.

Dear Editor:

In last week’s THE DAVIDSONIAN the “playmate” was given an unusually large spread. Though not an accomplished journalist, I have
been on the Board of Editors of a Korean student newspaper and have at least been introduced to some of
the principles of good journalism. To please the tastes of the student body is undoubtedly important, but I submit that
to beA mirror of campus life and a stimulant to student thought is by far the most important task for
a newspaper. As far as student life is concerned, the appearance of one of the “famed” playmates is a trivial
event. If a noted authority had come to campus or the paper was bereft of material to print, I could
understand the lavish spread for the “playmate,” but as the paper should be a voice box of the intelligence of
the Davidson student and a channel of communication between the school and alumni, parents, etc.—I can see no reason for
such publicity. Though I am admittedly a neophyte to the Davidson way of life and come from a more conservative
milieu, I feel that journalistic standards of excellence are more similar than not throughout the world.
D. Joon Yoo

RAYNAL

Dear Editor:
“. . . I choose to ignore those people (who are not) broad-minded,” said Nancy Jo Hooper. And most of
us don’t choose to listen to those who aren't “broad-minded” either. Perhaps, though, it is not a matter of being
broad-minded, but a matter of choosing what we're to be narrow-minded about, even if that is narrow-mindedness. There is no
one without prejudice, so, prejudiced, I write. And I'm a hypocrite too, but if no one who were a hypocrite
protested, all would be silent. Of course, that fact is no excuse for hypocrisy, but neither is it an excuse
for silence.

The Playmate came and kissed and now has left us “nice college boys.” And by now the covers have been
worn off of most of this month's Playboys distributed to the fraternities “Courtesy of Rush Wilson Ltd.” Surely Rush is
a good guy and therefore we should buy lots and lots of Gold Cup socks. Moreover, since Burlington Mills was
gracious enough to bring Miss Hooper to Charlotte, we should naturally infer that they must be worthy of our patronage
too! Davidson seems none the worse for the encounter. However, this form of advertising used by Mr. Wilson and Burlington
Mills is symptomatic, indicating some fundamental value judgments on the part of the advertiser as well as the consumer. It
seems to me that, if for no other reason than to do something about getting along with people in these
chaotic times, human relationships must be based on something other than exploitation.
Charles E. Raynal, III

STRAUMANN
(Editor’s note: Ben Straumann is a 1963-1964 Richardson Scholar from Erlinsbach, Switzerland.)

Dear Editor:
I feel rather personally attacked by former Richardson Scholar Gerritsen’s remarks in his letter of May 1 about this year's
foreign students in connection with the Charlotte civil rights march. Gerritsen questions my “right to show open condemnation of a
society into which I have only recently been hospitably accepted.” I question his right to attribute false and stupid motives
to my participation in a demonstration about which he admittedly does not have any information except through the college newspaper.
Also, I have some doubts as to whether Gerritsen is in any better position to give me advice and to
pass judgment after his “few months in North Carolina” than I am to make decisions as I see fit. Furthermore,
Gerritsen’s implication that the expression of my opinion in favor of a bill which has passed the House of Representatives
and is filibustered by a minority of senior senators is an “open condemnation” of American society is absolutely ridiculous. It
is certainly a very valid proposal “to read about the subject and talk our views over with American students and
friends.” Perhaps he (Gerritsen) would understand then that the racial situation is changing fast, that the peaceful march on Washington
has been followed by bloodshed in Jacksonville, and that in view of this situation some people get sick of talking.
As to Gerritsen’s conclusion, it seems to me that whether a quiet, peaceful demonstration in favor of the Civil Rights
Bill is “improper conduct” to “make heroes out of us,” “an insult to Americans and beneficial to nobody,” is not
up to his opinionated arrogance to decide.
Ben Straumann

AN URCHIN’S WAY
Social Revenge: ‘Life’ Or ‘No Life’?
By DUNCAN D. NEWCOMER

“The bell tolls even on each man’s individual island...” That is life. With it, we can do one of two
things—get involved in the blood and sweat or forget the whole thing called life. Yet a voice says blood and
sweat mean tears. Surely there is a life worth living without blood, sweat, and tears. So we build fences. But
good fences mean no neighbors, and we are left alone—tall and lonely, pine trees that cast no shadow. The voice
says give one damn reason why it is wrong to cast no shadow! Why not be socially irrelevant? I will
not say because the world needs bright, young Davidson graduates to lead on to sunlit uplands. We don’t believe in
sunlit uplands. I will not say that social relevance pays off. It is largely foolish to think that if I
help you across the street you will later help me. Even if we did help each other, why? Nor will
I say that social relevance makes one warm and mushy inside. Real social involvement can kill. When the warm glow
turns hot and the mush turns to muck then we turn in our Salvation Army tambourines. Social relevance then is
not found in the bread basket of altruism, nor does man live on that unleavened bread alone. So, forget altruism.
Forget social relevance. Cultivate the “It.” Gaze upon the navel. When Time magazine asks you to say something about your
generation, roll over and grunt, “My book, my bed, my girl, my bottle.” But then something happens. A president gets
shot or a New York City girl gets stabbed before the sleepy-eyed view of 38 witnesses—horrified consciences cry out—two weeks
later another New York girl gets raped before 40 people. Something happens and darkly we see that a cultivated “I”
leads to a cultivated “It.” No altruism. No introspective gaze. No life? Only say “No life” if your fate is
worse than Oedipus, or Jesus of Nazareth, or Kennedy. Only say “No life” if never once has the mystery of
“I am” struck you. Only say “No life” if the word love means nothing to your world. Only say “No
life” if the words beauty, joy, suffering, and justice are to you just hollow echoes. But if you affirm life
at all, then you affirm blood, sweat, tears. If life has grasped you at all, then by the grace of
life you will grasp it. You will not be able to keep from involvement. Even as life has first loved
you—in response—you will love life. Because Life has come, you will become socially relevant, come life or death. For it
is all in the package of Life.

Former Student Body Exec Supports NSA Retention
By JOHN SPRATT

The atmosphere for Monday's referendum on NSA is not quite so charged as that of last fall. Now, with even
the DAVIDSONIAN edging into our ranks, it appears that NSA will be favorably endorsed without so much as a single
pink poster waged in objection. Nonetheless, I wouldn't want to inflate my optimism with too much unfounded hope. It might
well be timely to present a synopsis of some of the benefits of NSA affiliation which have accrued over the
past year. It would at least offer some evidence that we haven't been completely talking through our hats to keep
some pet project on campus. On several occasions over the past school year, the student government has been able to
make use of the Student Government Information Service. Information has been obtained on honor systems across the country, student regulations,
freshman regulations, etc. Some information coming through NSA has been made specifically available to certain campus organizations, such as the
civil rights group. Much of the other information—pamphlets, circulars, bulletins, announcements—has been made accessible to the student body in the
lobby of the college union. In a similar vein, a campus travel committee under the direction of John Carson has
been able to make available to the student body the resources of Educational Travel, Inc., a subsidiary of NSA. The
student council has also acted on several NSA recommendations, such as the recent letter concerning the Tougaloo College charter suspension
proposal. On the regional level, we have participated in a comprehensive survey poll of the role and relevancy of student
governments on campuses in the Carolinas and Virginias. Also, the regional has resolved to take action to make NSA a
more politically acceptable group in the South, by making it less political. Another benefit coming indirectly from NSA is MODERATOR
magazine. By far, however, the major contribution of NSA has undoubtedly been the appearance of the Israeli singers and dancers
here on our campus under NSA’s sponsorship. The cost to the student council was only thirty-five dollars. For those who
saw the program, I need not mention any more. NSA admittedly (and we've admitted it all along) hasn't changed the
face of Davidson. But it is hardly a deadwood organization. And it's worth your vote of approval on Monday.

SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscribe to the 1964-65 DAVIDSONIAN
Name
Address
City
Zip Code
I enclose four dollars
Bill me later at $4.50
Renewal
New
Clip out and mail to:
Circulation Manager
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Box 218
Davidson, N. C., 28036
