STUDENTS CHALLENGE CHAPEL SPEAKERS (See Page Two)

VOL. LIV.

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1964

KAPPA SIGS REMAIN UNBEATEN IN IMAC (See Page Five)

NUMBER EIGHT

COACH BILL DOLE (Staff Photo by Smith)

“in more than a decade ... 40-60-4”

CALLS CAMPAIGN SIGNALS

Secor Referees Election

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The last whistle of the game has blown. The teams have retired to the sidelines and look to the scoreboard
for the decision. The supporters in the grandstand, after the contest quietens, settle back to await the outcome. Sound like
a football game? Well, it was not. It was the 1964 political campaign.

Dr. Philip Secor compared the campaign with a game, a game that the entire nation played. The candidates were the
players, the campaign managers and avid boosters were the cheerleaders, the voters were the spectators, and Secor was the referee.

Americans love a contest and they love outdoor sports; according to Secor, politics is a sport—in fact, two sports in
one. There is the obvious physical contest where the stakes, election and power, are high. And then there is the
contest of intellect and ideals in which the stakes are still higher, for in this fray the voters decide which
team is “rationally and morally worthy.”

SECOR'S SWEEPSTAKES

Davidson College this year had a contest of its own. This contest was the idea of Secor, intended to promote
interest in the political campaign. The Sweepstakes was a game in which the player marked on a ballot the name
of the man whom he believed would win the race in which he was entered. There were three ballots, one
showing presidential voting trends for the past 36 years and a space beside each state for voting, a second with
spaces for the senatorial candidates, and a third with spaces for the states’ gubernatorial candidates. Judging of the contest was
done by Secor; he was to check the presidential ballots first, and only in case of a tie would he
move on to the senatorial and to the gubernatorial. Prizes for the top three voters were offered in the amounts
of $25, $15, and $10, respectively.

HOW TO CHOOSE

But how were the voters to choose for whom to vote? Secor, speaking in assembly Tuesday, was not about to
let the student body go without explaining why people were going to vote for whom they were. In this year's
game of politics, he said, the directions of the candidates are not clearly defined, neither right nor left. There is
some doubt about the identity of Democrats and Republicans, about on which side of the field they sit. This year
some of the leading contenders are on the wrong team, he said.

RAH! RAH! RAH!

From the sidelines come expressions of faith from the cheerleaders: “Constitution, National Security, Individualism—Rah! Rah! Rah!!” or “Justice, Peace, Economic
Growth—Go! Team! Go!” But how to choose? On the line of scrimmage comes the clash of disagreement on the major
issues: National Security, Justice, Peace, Economy, Viet Nam, Communist China. But how to choose? Said Secor, “In the end language
fails us and reason is unable to determine. They must play and we must choose.” But how to choose?

PLAYING FIELD

After all has been said, declared Secor, the voter must choose his candidate by descending from the grandstand to the
playing field, to the “area of emotional communication.” Here the decisions rest with whom we “like and trust as against
whom we dislike and distrust.”

Martin States College Has Taken No Action

By BILL BRIGGS
Davidsonian Assistant Sports Editor

“I have too much pride to resign. I have said before, I have nothing to be ashamed of,” stated Coach
Bill Dole in the face of mounting rumors that he would be relieved of his duties at the end of
the current football season.

“Coach Dole Maintains: “I Don’t Plan To Resign”

RUNOFF ELECTION

Snider Edges Boone For Handbook Editor

By ED MAXWELL
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Britt Snider was elected editor of the 1965-66 Wildcat Handbook by a 37-vote margin over his opponent Danny Boone in
a runoff ballot held yesterday after chapel. Out of the 391 votes cast, Snider received 219, while Boone took the
other 172. In an earlier ballot on Tuesday Snider had received 157 votes to Boone’s 122. Also on that ballot
were Rocky Walker and Allen Webb who received 63 and 89 votes respectively.

In his platform Snider stated what he believed to be the principal functions of the Handbook. These, he said, were
to acquaint incoming Freshmen with campus life, to serve as a guide to upperclassmen during rush, and to act as
a reference for students throughout the year.

In fact, it marked the first time that a non-staff member had run for the office. It has been the
practice in the past to have only those who have worked on the Handbook previously for this important position, but
the Publications Board was obliged to open the candidacy when only one member of the previous staff expressed a desire
to run.

The recent flurry of rumors concerning a possible resignation or removal of Dole were stepped up on Thursday, Oct. 22.
“After Thursday night practice,” a member of the football team related, “Dole called us (the team) together and made a
few remarks concerning the coming game with VMI. “Then he told us that he had heard from a good friend
that he would be removed at the end of this season.”

From this Thursday night after-practice speech, which was supposed to be kept quiet by those who heard it, grew the
bevy of recent rumors that have scorched the sports pages of several area newspapers.

TALK TO TEAM

Dole said of the post-practice speech, “I told the football team that I understood that a decision has been made
to relieve me of my duties at the end of the season.” This was the extent of Dole's remarks on
his talk to the team.

When asked to further identify the “friend” who told him of his possible removal Dole declined any comment. When queried
as to the validity of the stories, Dole replied, “I haven't talked to anyone in the administration, but from what
I've read in the Charlotte papers, it apparently is not true.”

MARTIN REPLIES

What Dole read, and what President D. Grier Martin said, was, “No official action concerning Dole has been taken by
the board, the executive committee, the alumni council or any other group. There may have been unofficial talk but that
is one of those things that is bound to be a matter of consideration with people who are primarily concerned
with those things.”

Council Has Brief Meeting

Student Council held a routine meeting Monday night. Somewhat hampered by the four absences attributed to athletic contests and practices,
the meeting was brief. Will Jackson, president, announced that the alphabetical lists of parallel reading material in all the major
courses of curriculum offered at Davidson had been completed and were available.

This may help clear up the existing situation—or rather show how complicated it can be. The Trustees can fire a
coach at Davidson, but the board is not meeting until April. If anything is to be done, it must be
done soon in order that the recruiting program not be...hamp-ered. In the interim (between now and April) the executive committee
can act for the trustees. A routine meeting is scheduled between now and April but no definite date has been
set yet.

TRUSTEE COMMITTEE

If any action were to be taken, the Trustee Committee on Student Health and Physical Education would probably assert a
great deal of authority. Serving on the three-man committee are Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow of Charlotte; John I. Smith, vice
president of Abney Mills, Travelers Rest, S.C.; and D. R. LaFar Jr., president of LaFar Mills, Gastonia. With three games
remaining, the Wildcats have a 2-4 record this season; under Dole's tutelage during the past dozen years the team has
compiled an overall record of 40-60-4.

When an issue boils down to “affinities and dislikes,” Secor says, we are apt to choose “the man who is
more human, who is humble, fallible, makes mistakes, and forgives mistakes.” We usually distrust the man who is PRIMARY OBJECT.
Secor condemned what he called “ultimate seriousness;” this spoils the game and the enjoyment of competition. “The primary object is
not to win, but to run well. Then if you lose, you can try again.” Finishing his talk, Secor said,
“The voters look to the man with a sense of humor.” They choose the one who will have a laugh,
and who does not live in ultimate seriousness. “An intelligent man usually has a sense of humor.” Therefore, he predicted,
the voters would go with Lyndon Johnson on Nov. 3.

A few statements of the Council members were almost ready for distribution. These were distributed Tuesday afternoon in the dormitories.
Johnny Gresham, sophomore representative, asked about the possibility of keeping the library open until midnight on regular nights rather than
the usual 11 p.m. He noted that the dormitories become noisy as soon as people start returning from the library
and that students generally have further work to do. At this point, Secretary Treasurer Tom Frist asked that the council
take a firm stand on the rules about noise in the dormitories. Jackson agreed that council members should try to
control excess noise. Gresham was appointed to investigate the possibility of keeping the library open until midnight.

Drinking on campus received only passing notice. An informal meeting with members of the Honor Court was scheduled for this
past Wednesday night.

Having recognized these points, Snider went on to say that he felt the Handbook could stand improvement in the field
of pictorial usage. He suggested that pictures of annual highlights such as Homecoming and the Basketball season be used. Accepting
the present format as a whole, the new editor felt that the editorial comment which served to enlighten Freshmen should
be retained, as it was an essential part of the publication.

Although Snider, a member of Pi Kappa Alpha from Salisbury, has been quite active in extracurricular affairs, having served on
the Honor Court and the DAVIDSONIAN staff, he is a newcomer to the Handbook staff. His election was unique in
that it marked the first time that a man who had not previously served on the staff was elected editor.

CHARLES R. JONAS

Davidson College was finally blessed in Monday assembly with an articulate political speaker. In an election campaign most noteworthy for
its lack of articulate dialogue on either side, Rep. Charles Jonas spoke in Chambers Auditorium on election eve but political
fire and brimstone were noticeably absent. As expected, Jonas came to speak in his area of greatest interest and concern—national
monetary policy. Long a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the Carolina Republican spoke first to the issue of the
national debt. He expressed his support of a proposal to reduce the debt at an annual rate of one percent.
“Under this plan,” noted Jonas, “we would in 30 years reduce the whole affair until payments on interest are finally
less than payments on principal.”

Representative Jonas dismissed those who would dismiss the national debt as a matter for real concern. He did point out,
however, that he did not object to deficit spending in time of war or economic depression. But what hope for
the future, he asked, “if we ignore this problem in a time of prosperity?”

There were other issues for the visitor to confront in his brief stay on campus. On the farm problem, he
could not advance any suggestions but did note that farm subsidies seem to be a necessary evil. Similarly, he did
not favor the compulsory nature of the social security system but “doubted” that it was feasible to drop the program
now. He did lament the proposal to attach medicare to the existing program with the familiar cry of “overburdening” the
existing setup. Sounding another familiar conservative tenet in the coffee hour, Jonas opposed a higher minimum wage on the grounds
that it would stifle the economy.

In closing his assembly address, Rep. Jonas made use of a familiar monetary description. “If you gave your wife one
million dollars to spend at a rate of $1,000 a day, she would be back in three years for more
money; if you gave her one billion dollars, she wouldn't be back for 300 years.” If liberals took this as
“advice on getting rid of one's wife,” conservatives tended to wonder when they would next see Lyndon Johnson after January
20.

By BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

BAKER, WHITTON, RAMBERG WIN SWEEPSTAKES MONEY

By BOB VANCE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Bob Baker won first prize in Davidson’s novel election sweepstakes conducted on Election Day, Nov. 3. Robert Whitton was runner-up
and Charles Ramberg came in third. Baker, a sophomore and a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, was awarded the first
prize of $25 and a donkey. In winning the sweepstakes he guessed correctly the winner of the Presidential race in
every state except Georgia, and the senatorial winners in all except five states. Whitton won the second prize of $15.
He is a junior and a member of Kappa Sigma. Ramberg, a senior member of Sigma Nu, won the $10
third prize. Each also missed the winner of the Presidential race in one state, but incorrectly guessed the outcome of
six senatorial elections and several gubernatorial races.

Taking the Sweepstakes “booby” prize of an elephant was Jim Shackleford. He guessed that Sen. Barry Goldwater would win 484
electoral votes to 54 votes for President Lyndon Johnson and came within two points of completely missing the actual results.
First and second runners-up for the “booby” prize were Ross Brown and Charles Dibble, respectively.

Dr. Philip Secor, who suggested and directed the election sweepstakes, stated that around 250 students participated in the contest. While
no one correctly guessed the actual alignment of states in the electoral college results, there was one student who guessed
the total number of electoral votes received by each Presidential candidate. According to Secor, there were three students besides the
winners who missed only one state in the Presidential contest, while six others missed but two states. The states in
the Presidential race most frequently missed were Florida, Georgia, and Wyoming. In the senatorial contests, “upsetting” the most students were
Oklahoma, New York, and California. In the gubernatorial races these maverick states were Arizona and Wisconsin.

Dr. Secor noted that without the cooperation of Bob Stone, Assistant to President Martin, the sweepstakes could not have been
held. He also expressed his gratitude to Brad Thompson Jr. for his assistance in tabulating the results.
