PAGE SIX

Union Plans A Party

The annual Union Christmas party will be held Friday evening, Dec. 18. Steve Bunch, Union president, calls the event “the
Union's biggest social function of the year.” All costs will be assumed by the Union and there will be no
admission fee or other charges made.

Starting at 7:30, the party will feature three combos: the Dynamics in the new downstairs room, and the Casuals and
Sid Farrar’s Contemporaries in the Morrison Room. Girls have been invited by the Union from Limestone College, Winthrop College, and
Queens. Also in attendance will be some Charlotte airplane stewardesses and local girls.

During an intermission from 9:30 to 10:30, several entertainment features have been scheduled. There will be a showing of Candid
Camera-type films taken over the campus during the past year, and Dave McCorkle will present a ventriloquist act. Awards will
be presented to the winners of the freshman ping-pong and pool tournaments, and door prize winners will be announced. Every
person attending the party will receive a ticket stub and numbers will be drawn to determine the winners. Door prizes
have been donated by Rush Wilson, Jack Wood, Tate-Brown's, and the Student Store.

Also announced during the intermission will be the new Davidson Christmas Sweetheart. Earlier in the party, semi-finalists will have been
chosen from among the twelve fraternity candidates, candidates chosen by each Queens sorority, candidates from other participating girls’ colleges, and
a candidate selected by the Davidson students’ wives. The winner will be chosen by a faculty-student committee and crowned by
Sheri Rose of Salem College, last year’s Christmas Sweetheart.

Jackson Plans (Continued from Page One)

This section (Article VII, section 2) of the Student Body Constitution, Student Council and the Honor Court shall not consider
the trunks of automobiles as covered by the term "CAMPUS.” Dibble’s efforts failed and the Sackett motion eventually received the
necessary two-thirds majority required for proposed constitutional amendments. Constitutional amendments may also be proposed by a petition of 50 members
of the Student Body; to this avenue the editor turned.

Immediately after the meeting, Dibble drafted his defeated proposal into a petition and collected “about 150” names. He informed President
Jackson of the existence of the petition but withheld formal presentation. Following a meeting of the Student-Faculty Conference Committee Thursday
afternoon, Jackson stated, “I intend to ask the student body to reject the proposed amendment to the Student Body Constitution
with the stipulation that a new amendment be proposed after Christmas.”

Explaining his dissatisfaction with the presently proposed amendment, Jackson pointed out the “weaknesses in the present proposal and the problems
it presents. The most obvious flaw is that you can sit in your trunk and do anything. Other flaws are
that the interpretations and implications of the rule are unclear.”

Both the amendment now before the student body and the tentative amendment to be proposed later have the end of
allowing liquor in trunks, Jackson said, but the new proposal is much clearer in its wording. Under the new proposal,
explained Jackson, “possession in trunks—open or closed—would be legalized," because the trunks, according to the amendment, would not be on
campus. Jackson emphasized, however, that the new proposal would hold “only with regard to possession of liquor; drinking in trunks
would still be illegal.”

The ambiguities and unclear wording of the presently proposed amendment will be reviewed, Jackson said, and the proposal for a
new definition of campus will be presented in assembly Monday. The new amendment will have to be proposed in accordance
with the procedure stated in the Student Body Constitution which provides for a proposal “by a written petition of fifty
members of the Student Body to the Student Council; or by a two-thirds vote of the entire Council.”

After this, the proposed amendment shall be read at the next meeting of the Student Body. It shall then lie
on the table for no more than ten days and no less than five days, at the end of which
time a vote of the Student Body shall be taken by written ballot. A two-thirds vote of those present and
entitled to vote shall be necessary for an amendment to be adopted.

Wall Street Journal Offers Scholarships

Applications are now available for the 1965 newspaper internship program of The Newspaper Fund. Selected applicants are awarded a $500
scholarship upon the completion of three months of full-time newspaper work. Last summer four Davidson students participated in the program,
which is supported by grants from The Wall Street Journal. They are Tom Craig, Rick von Unwerth, Buck Lawrimore, and
Tom Loflin.

Craig, a junior from Spartanburg, S.C., worked for the Spartanburg Journal. He covered the Republican National Convention for a group
of Carolina papers and is now in France on the Davidson Junior-Year-Abroad program. Lawrimore, a junior from Georgetown, S.C., was
a reporter for The Charleston (S.C.) Evening Post. He has been a reporter for THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Von Unwerth worked for the Baton Rouge State-Times. He is a senior from Augusta, Ga. and is an Associate Editor
of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Loflin, who graduated in June, is from Hendersonville. He is still employed by the Greensboro Daily News
where he worked during the summer. Loflin enters the Army next month and plans to rejoin the Daily News staff
upon his release from active duty.

Positions are available during the summer months on a number of newspapers which cooperate in The Newspaper Fund program. The
Fund is particularly interested in receiving applications from junior classmen, in colleges where students have no opportunities for formal courses
in journalism; however, this does not preclude members of other classes who are interested in any kind of newspaper work.

Students who have worked professionally as beginning reporters, photographers or copy editors, part time or full time, are not eligible.
A winner must work a minimum of 10 weeks for the newspaper that employs him. In addition to the salary
earned as a newspaper reporter, the journalist is awarded the $500 grant by The Wall Street Journal at the end
of the summer.

Interested students should contact Charles Dibble, editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN, before the Christmas holidays for further details. Application deadline is
Jan. 10, 1965.

Christmas Music Set For Sunday

“A Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols” traditional to colleges since it was first presented in Kings College Chapel, Cambridge,
England, will be featured at the Davidson College Christmas Vespers service at 7 Sunday night. The Male Chorus, Chapel Choir,
Brass Ensemble, and the Selwyn Avenue Presbyterian Church Handbell Choir will take part in the service.

Prof. Wilmer H. Welsh will serve as organist while student readers will be Charles Roberts and Decker Faw. Prof. Donald
B. Plott will direct the Male Chorus and Chapel Choir; Prof. Grier M. Williams, the Wind Ensemble; and Mrs. Jack
Hunter, the Handbell Choir. The Rev. Will H. Terry is program coordinator. Attendance at Christmas Vespers is not required and
there will be no open house following.

Flight Delays Delegates

By BOB STRAUSER Davidsonian Feature Editor

The National Interfraternity Conference held last weekend in Cincinnati proved a trying experience for Davidson representatives, Rocky Walker and Fred
Sackett. Routing their flight through Atlanta, the pair left Charlotte at 1:00 p.m. last Thursday and departed from the Georgia
metropolis at six that evening. Unfortunately, the scheduled Cincinnati flight was cancelled because of fog conditions there; undaunted, Sackett and
Walker took a Chicago flight and planned to make connections through there. With typical efficiency, the snow beat the flight
to Chicago, so the plane carrying the Davidson representatives circled the Windy City for an hour and forty minutes. Here,
their fortunes changed and they barely caught the last flight out that night. But the hard-luck pair struck out again;
the flight finally hung and five were chosen as first place winners. UNC sculpture professor Robert Howard (story in current
Time magazine) was another winner.

Herb Jackson

Davidson's Sophomore Artist

By BOB STRAUSER Davidsonian Feature Editor

Herb Jackson doesn’t belong at Davidson. At least, it would seem that way. Jackson, a sophomore from Raleigh, is an
artist; for better or worse, Davidson is educating gentlemen — not artists. Having painted for five years (studying privately for
three years), Jackson came to Davidson last year as a pre-med. He intended to enter the field of psychiatry and
specialize in art therapy. But ideas change and events have convinced Herb his calling is elsewhere.

Last summer, Jackson was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to present his own show in Raleigh. With the considerable
preparations that go into such a venture, the young artist did all the work himself, exhibiting 37 of his works
in Raney Library in August. The show drew an unprecedented 2700 people and Jackson put in several weeks of 12-hour
days. Aside from the invaluable experience, he sold four paintings for $600. A Durham art dealer was so impressed he
took the show over for the month of September.

Jackson has taken part in nine exhibits in his brief career. Perhaps his highest honor came in winning a First
Place in the 1962 North Carolina Museum of Art competition. There were 900 entries in the judging from professors and
professionals.

Jackson reports that he works in the studio “about ten hours a week.” He is majoring in German with the
intention of studying.ing abroad during his junior year; hopefully, he plans to do graduate work at Yale and eventually teach.
Said Herb, “An artist at Davidson is considered somewhat of a freak. If we were to obtain an artist in
residence, he might as well live in Dr. Houchen’s home — he wouldn't find many students to talk with.” He
went on to make the point that P.E. and art are the only two departments that do not offer a
major. What is Jackson trying to express? His “idea” of art is expressed in the program to his one-man show.
“Since it is impossible to represent nature completely, every attempt becomes an abstraction. It is even less possible to seize
essence; one can only hope for an intuitive interpretation. Form seized too quickly has the look of death. Form is
always dying. Only in the pre-form period, when forms are becoming, is there the spark of life. The form must
be broken, twisted, imperfect, and in this way for one fleeting moment, the flight circled Cincinnati (still fogged in) for
forty minutes and returned to Atlanta, arriving shortly after two in the morning. The 6:30 plane for Cincinnati was cancelled
and the campus politicians visited friends in Atlanta to await the 11:30 flight (which was postponed until 1:00 p.m.). The
plane finally departed but again had to circle Cincinnati, then Dayton, then Cincinnati again, and finally landed at Louisville, Kentucky
— the last flight to be allowed in before the snow. From there, Walker and Sackett caught a bus, arriving
at six that evening at their destination — exactly 24 hours late. The pair had gone 2400 miles to complete
a 400-mile (as the crow flies) trip in 30 hours. Fraternity liaison man, Bob Jones, was already at the conference;
together the Davidson group participated in the discussion on “the changing role of fraternities.” Sackett found time to secure Of
these entries, there is the possibility of change, which is life.”

By TED GLUSMAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

How would you like to see Europe on $15 a week? Travel from Paris to Copenhagen for $19 or from
London to Istanbul for $40? This and much, much more is available to students thanks to Education Travel, Inc., a
subsidiary of the National Student Association. At Open End Wednesday night, Larry Handel, a director of ETI, was on the
campus to tell us about these and other “good deals” ETI provides. ETI has three main divisions: tours for American
students, tours for foreign students, and independent services. It is in this last division that students can find answers to
their travel problems. The keys to all those great prices are a book and a card. The book is Work,
Study, Travel Abroad, written by Handel himself, and the card is a National Student Association I.D. card.

GUIDEBOOK
Work, Study, Travel Abroad is a student's guidebook to Europe. It lists all the possible travel plans, ways of financing
the trip, and what to do and where to go in Europe to meet other students. According to Handel, this
last will be no problem at all, because “there is an international student community. You don't know about it because
you haven't been there, but you'll see it when you go.” The student I.D. card is the real worker on
a student tour. It can save the traveling student money in the areas of transportation, room and board, and entertainment.
Stated Handel, “Always show the card. You never know when you'll get a discount.” Special charter flights are available to
the owner of a card, which costs a dollar. In addition, railway travel in most countries is half-priced, and movies,
theaters, museums, etc., give large discounts to cardholders. In fact, here in the United States, a cardholder can get discounts
from certain hotel chains, nightclubs, and travel dormitories.

WORKING ABROAD
Handel proceeded to cover working abroad. There are, he told his audience, three main ways. The most commonly used are
work camps, which have no language requirement and require no skills. The other two are trainee jobs and Government Employment
Agency jobs which require some training and some knowledge of the language. Jobs, it seems, are not hard to come
by, but, stated Handel, you can't pay for your trip that way: “I know. I tried. I'm Jewish. If I
can't do it, you can't!”

STUDY ABROAD
Finally, Handel covered study abroad. The two ways of studying abroad used most often by students, he said, were American
University programs and European summer schools. The work, he said, is easy (no homework, no exams, the lowest grade is
a ‘C’), and the whole thing is wonderful. In DAVIDSONIAN interviews, Handel and Chuck Matthews, campus coordinator of National Student
Association projects, explained Davidson's relationship to these programs. The Student Council pays $30 a year for Davidson to belong to
the NSA. ETI, being an NSA subsidiary, thus makes itself available for Davidson student use. A student travel agency is
now being set up in the Union, where information and copies of the ETI guidebooks will be available. So if
you're planning on traveling, working, or studying in Europe, make sure you see what ETI has to offer. A sample?
Four full months, including England, Scotland, France, Germany, Egypt, Israel, and Scandinavia. The price? $900.

Local Integration Fuss Draws College Interest
Twelve residents of northern Mecklenburg County, including one Davidson College professor, appeared before the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education Wednesday to
discuss proposed plans for relieving overcrowded conditions at Torrence-Lytle School, an all-Negro, 12-grade institution serving the area between Davidson and
Charlotte. The board had reportedly planned to move the 250 junior high students out of Torrence-Lytle to be absorbed by
the three other junior high schools serving the “north area.” “The concern of Davidson College,” said an administration official, “is
with the faculty families and other townspeople of Davidson. We hope that the school board will proceed with due caution
and consideration in this matter.” The group of citizens present at the Wednesday meeting who represented Davidson and other North
Mecklenburg communities asked that high school students—not junior high—be given the fraternity speaker for the semester, a program initiated by
the Senior Class President. William McK. Wright, Assistant Dean of Students at DePaul University, will honor the campus in that
capacity. Of further concern to the group was the current fraternity situation here on campus. They sought advice to bring
back to the Student Council Social and Fraternity Committee. In trying to strengthen the campus IFC, advice was sought on
what areas needed the most improvement. One obvious weakness, according to Sackett, was the lack of a local IFC publication.
He further opined that the Davidson IFC was one of the strongest in our classification (campuses with 15 or fewer
fraternities) and stood a chance at a national award. The national award, the “Ironman’s Trophy,” is a 400-pound iron man
standing with arms outstretched. As one observer noted, “It looks something like a big Oscar — only different.”

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

the option of transferring from Torrence-Lytle to predominantly white North Mecklenburg High School or all-Negro West Charlotte High School. Bill
Ward, a Charlotte attorney who lives in Davidson, was spokesman for the group. (Continued from Page One) in accordance with
the spirit of the student proposal. The modified rule adopted by the faculty stipulated that the Student Council should amend
their rules to bring them into harmony with the faculty rule, and that they should agree to support and enforce
the amended rules. This the council has done in proposing the amendment to the Student Body Constitution and in adopting
the statement of policy on enforcement. Following the Faculty’s revision of its rules, President Martin expressed his appreciation for the
“fine spirit of cooperation which the student body officers demonstrated in proposing an enforceable rule.” Jackson also stated that he
wished “to thank the faculty and the administration for their cooperation and consideration in this matter.”

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR
Accurate Complete News Coverage
Printed and Published by
THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING SOCIETY
One Norway Street, Boston, Massachusetts, 02115
Price: $24.00 a year, or $12.00 for six months.
Saturday issue, including Magazine Section: $2.00 a year.
Introductory offer: 3 months for $6.00.
Clip this advertisement and return it with your check or money order to:
The Christian Science Monitor
One Norway Street
Boston, Mass. 02115
PB-16

He presented his request in the form of petitions which the board accepted unanimously but only as information. The main
contention of the group was that there would be a severe disciplinary problem with the junior high-age group. “A massive
consolidation of the schools would present great problems,” Ward said. Dr. Reginald Hawkins, a Negro dentist who has been active
in Civil Rights movements in Charlotte, objected to the proposed transfer to West Charlotte; however, the board assured both sides
that they would be consulted before any future action was taken. “We are very pleased with the outcome of the
meeting,” said one member of the “North End” delegation. “I think you could say that we got what we went
after, that being a mutual agreement to proceed with caution in this school situation.”

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagna — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Girl talk. Boy talk. All talk goes better refreshed. Coca-Cola — with a lively lift and never too sweet —
refreshes best.
things go better with Coke
Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by:
THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
