FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

IFC Releases Plans For Function, Spring Frolics

Frolics Slates Saints, Singers, Joe, Eddie, Bud, Travis, Fred

There will be quite a Spring Frolics this year. In contrast to previous Frolics where nobody much came and everybody here left to let the sap flow freely, the IFC April 24-25 is holding the power of five attractions crammed into two big nights. The first three-hour, two-intermission whing-ding features Joe and Eddie, the Serendipity Singers, and Fred Smoot. Saturday night promises the Four Saints and Bud and Travis. Both stints are scheduled about seven to ten p.m.

There is one interesting question about the Frolics, and that is whether the black sweater gang can muscle their traditional D Club Foolies into the tight entertainment line-up. Will it be before seven, or after ten, or will it be? Perhaps the Foolies can travel around to the various after-parties?

The college in general is stepping aside for this spring gala, except that the Tennis and Baseball teams will be on the road, and a Wind Ensemble concert is slated for Friday night. Other than that there are no conflicts, no decisions, just six big hours.

The three-hour concert is something new on the Davidson campus, but is being used “very successfully by colleges all over the country” (IFC President Haynes Kelly). So good deals come south at last.

Serendipity means “the unexpected discovery of a new and happy event.” The seven boys and two girls who comprise the SERENDIPITY SINGERS meet that definition as well as anyone. The group started with a stable of instruments, and a boundless zest for singing, picked up two girls, and crashed The Bitter End in New York. The result was a new-directions act, “Folk-Jazz”—folk orientation with jazz instrumentation and arrangements. Keynote of the Singers is a blend of extraordinary sound en masse and utilization of each member’s own versatility, ranging from wild 12-string guitar to comedy sketches, to dramatic blackouts. To have an “act” you begin with individuals and combine carefully: individually and in combination, the Singers promise that elusive good act.

Yes, Virginia, there really is a FRED SMOOT. If you don’t believe the name or the person, he will be emcee for the Friday night Frolics. Fred is best described as an English-looking plastic-faced up-and-coming new comic with a number of night club and Yankee college performances under his belt. Fred will lace the Serendipity Singers and Joe and Eddie with his own material, giving the three hours in Chambers a naughty night club flavor. Which ought to be interesting, with no tables.

JOE AND EDDIE are the rather ordinary names of two extraordinary singers. Joe Gilbert comes from New Orleans, Eddie Brown from Norfolk, but the 21-year-old duo got together and got their start in California. They have moved across the country from San Francisco's Le Onion and Hungry i to New York's Blue Angel. Their specialty is rapid-fire delivery of folk songs, but are versatile enough to tackle Bach with the Berkeley Calvary Presbyterian Church. The Joe and Eddie philosophy: “We like what we're doing. If we can sing and get paid for it, all the better; but we're going to sing, no matter what!” Davidson may not be “Hootenanny,” “Tonight,” or “The Lively Ones,” but a big twosome will be singing in Spring Frolics.

OSCAR BROWN, who gave perhaps the best concert performance in memory in the Fall of ’62, again brings his own highly effective acting-singing combination to Davidson, March 7. From the Hungry i to the Village Vanguard, the raves have been the same. He is an actor that casts himself differently for each of his original songs, and uses them successfully to paint pictures, now funny, now satiric, now moving, but always described in reviews with the only applicable word: electric. As Brown himself describes the impact of his talent: “My lyrics are verses about feelings I've felt and scenes I’ve dug. The melodies I made from tunes, rhythms, chants, calls and cries that have always sung to me. I’ve tried to make messages that swing—and entertainment that is meaningful.” And he swings. If meaningful means you don't soon forget the performance, it is a very meaningful swing.

“March 7 Concert Brings Brown And Brandywines”For lost SY GREG GOVAN pine thousand dollars and two more weekends? Some others. Blast off. Any way you cut it, there are three nights of extravagant entertainment left in the year. The IFC leveled its heavy coffers at the remaining concert, March 7. No conflicting Artist Series, no conflicting basketball, two feature attractions between the hours of ten and five in the afternoon. Who, then, is taking up our money and our afternoon? Oscar Brown leads off, followed by the Brandywine Singers. Davidson follows in the best of Ivy League traditions with a mass concert, a sort of highbrow hootenanny. It should impress the scholarship finalists who will be visiting the center of learning in the South. But if they don’t like the singing and picking, there is a French touring company that will be wrapping up a week’s stay on campus. Le Treteau de Paris is scheduled to present, in French, Jean Anouilh’s L’Alouette (The Lark), February 28 to March 6.

The IFC highlight to the weekend, and the drawing card for dates, is bracketed on Friday and Saturday nights by Coach Charlie Parker’s own top billing as Johnston Gym hosts the Southern Conference's best grapplers. Concert-goers will have it all over the wrestlers, however; they'll get to take a break, two of them, in the entertainment cycle. That will give thoroughly entertained Wildcats time enough to think (1) how cool (2) how expensive (3) how big. If a late Homecoming threw monkey wrenches into the first (of three?) concerts, there isn't much to hold things back now. Between Brown and the Brandywines, there can’t be many complaints about getting your money’s worth.

Sharing the March seventh limelight with Oscar Brown is the “Button Down Folk Music” of the Brandywine Singers. The group has progressed from frat party days at the University of New Hampshire to first place at the Williamsport, Pennsylvania Intercollegiate Music Festival on the basis of good showmanship and rare harmonic blend. With hit singles of “Summer's Come and Gone” and “Two Little Boys,” the Brandywine Singers have rolled up an impressive record of concert performances in the Ivy League circuit, and gained the reputation of mastery of the nebulous field of folk music. The “button down” portion of their billing comes from what underlies the performance itself—preparation and research into what they are doing. But folk music sung is still music, and the intercollegiate champs have a lot in their favor as performers. It ought to be more than another hearing of a group trying to climb to the stars on guitar strings.

Actor Tony Randall summed up Bud and Travis: they put the olive in folk music. At any rate, the “Brooks Brothers Balladeers” will be carrying on the folk music into Saturday night of Spring Frolics. They are really four voices; the accompaniment is not just the same old chords, but vigorous classical guitar in counter melodic movements against the folk melodies. And the folk melodies come in ten languages from Paraguayan to Yiddish. If folk music counterpoint gets tiring, there is generous comedy patter from the pair who think there is great humor as well as great pathos in dusty Americana. Experience of the singers goes back to the Purple Onion and Hungry i, the Army Special Services, the Gateway Singers, and a dissertation on the Yaquis Indian language. “South Wind,” of Kingston Trio fame, is one of many Travis originals; both claim to be able to compose a song on request from any idea thrown out. Another summary, perhaps more to the point than Randall's, is that Bud and Travis are “talent-racked.”

Rounding out Saturday night is another return engagement for Davidson, The Four Saints. One, two, three, four—they are a highly versatile, highly polished group which runs the gamut from broad comedy to subtle wit in a musical context. The Saints can turn a ballad as well as a phrase, and put out production numbers, old saws, and musical humor. But original; the talented Saints rely little on outside arrangements. To cite only one example of talent, leader John Howell plays 16 instruments and serves as everything from concertmaster to drum major. The three SAE’s and one Sigma Chi are an entertainment surprise package, developing out of barbershopping into first-rate musical styling. Both polished and versatile can be summed up in Davidson's reaction to their first concert—great . . . just great.