FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1964

FILM FRIENDS PRESENT

‘Bed And Sofa’ Portrays Russian Love Triangle

By ROBERT CHUMLEY
Davidsonian Reviewer

For those of us who had pictured post-Revolution Russian art as purely chauvinistic such as Shostakovich’s later symphonies and Eisenstein’s
epic filming of “The Battleship Potemkin,” Wednesday's viewing of Abram Room’s “Bed and Sofa,” a startlingly vocal-silent cinema of the
'20s, was a great revelation. There was no massacre of the people of Odessa, no deification of Stalin, (on the
contrary, he is rather lightly regarded on a calendar from time to time smiling over the slum apartment) no dialectic
propaganda, and no revolutionary fulfillment. On the contrary, the film deals with the very real problem of post-revolution city life
— in particular, Moscow's housing shortage and its impact on family life.

Nikolai Batalov (Kolya) and his wife Ludmilla Semyonova (Lydna) are living in a one-room flat — a humdrum existence of
the normal married couple after sex and first love wear off. Lynda bows grudgingly to “his majesty’s” orders and laments
her lack of fulfillment (35 years before ‘The Feminine Sex'). Meanwhile, a third party, Vladimir Fogel (Volodya), a provincial painter
and erstwhile friend of Kyoska, makes his way to Moscow by train — the lure of Urbs Deus. Upon arrival,
he finds that permanent housing is a prerequisite to employment, and since “There’s not a single room in the city”
he naturally ends up at Kyosha’s who receives him warmly. He will sleep on the sofa while the married couple
cohabits on the bed.

All goes well until suddenly Kyosha is ordered off to Rostov for three weeks to work on a new housing
project. There begins the affair between Volodya and Lynda. Upon his return, Kyosha jokingly implies he suspects the trickery, then
reveals his joke only to realize the truth during supper. Since Valodya refuses to leave, Kyosha does, only to return
because of the housing shortage, and the triangle resumes. Valodya, the aspiring lover, becomes gradually the contented, commanding husband and,
the role reversed, Lynda looks with wistful eyes to hubby once again. Suddenly Lynda finds herself pregnant, is ordered to
have an abortion — revolts and leaves to make her own way. Kyosha and Valodya remain together somewhat quizzically.

So much for the story, a simple ménage à trois. The great achievement of the film lies in its subtle
technique and in its social criticism innate in the choice of scenes. The slow pace of the film, the insignificance
of the characters’ lives, their anonymity against crowded streets and paper credentials first tend to bore the viewer until he
realizes that in effect this is the issue of “civilization.” Kyosha is working on a reparation of the Bolshoi ballet
while there is no housing in Moscow, a slight irony later remedied by the housing project. The problem of marriage
too goes beyond the simple triangle setting and indicts the validity of the institution itself — all three characters undergo
the attraction — contentment — rejection process and move from intimacy to estrangement.

Also to be noted is the brilliant photography — the initial scene of Valodya in the train window — the
tracks all merging leading to the city — the fortune-breaking sequence and the crying cat. The acting was impeccable, the
best indication being that dialogue never seemed necessary — would have perhaps profaned the simplicity — the estrangement from things
offered and utilized by this medium. The successful effect of the film is largely due to the professional improvisation of
Sid Ferrar which accompanied the showing. His perceptive thematic material darting in and out of a continuous frenetic movement was
perfectly adapted to the repetitive nature of the film. One cannot help but feel Room would have been more than
pleased to have Sid accompany the film through its tour of Ukrainian movie houses.

“Picnic,” the accompanying short is explained in the prospectus as a triple-decker conflict between dream and reality, artist and the
bourgeois, the individual and society. I must admit an incompetency to see this interpretation and without the inherent wisdom of
print would have been tempted to label it a pregnant piece of trash, impregnated with surrealism, avant-gardism and ismism of
a hypersensitive dolt. I am still inclined toward the latter.

The evening was generously punctuated by sleep-turned Davidson students rolling out of the theater. This, if nothing else, is an
indication of the film's artistic impact and serves once again to show the Davidson gentleman's unquenchable thirst for art in
life.

The fifth and last Film Friends program of this semester will be “The Savage Eye,” an American film, on Wed.
Jan. 6 at 8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Fraternal Brotherhood Satirized By Independent

Dear Editor:

Re: Debate on merits of Davidson’s fraternity system. Let's face it; even with all that brotherhood crap, most Independents would
give up wearing socks to wear a pin. All that philosophical talk about the virtue of non-conformity and being your
own man seems pretty irrelevant sitting on a radiator waiting to play ping pong Saturday nights.

Why has the system deteriorated even further in past years? It seems to me mainly because of admissions policies. In
order to broaden the horizons of typical Davidson gentlemen, many students of different interests and different backgrounds are being admitted,
even Yankees. Let’s face it. Some of these new students just aren’t going to be cool. Some won’t have whole
pages in annuals dedicated to them, some will, yes, some will even wear imitation Weejuns. The student body has been
rounded out with squares.

But to alter the fraternity system by abolishing it or admitting more students to it would make bad print in
those snappy publications that are supposed to snatch in Northerners. Let's face it. If I were a dues-paying member of
a strong fraternity and proud to pin my extra-cool girl with my pin, I wouldn’t want anybody tripping about the
house in Hush Puppies. Let’s face it. The only useful thing the recent debate did was provide lively conversation for
a few students who aren’t accepted at Hattie’s, just as did Scriven. Except that my activities fee didn’t have to
pay for an airplane flight. So why the big argument?

Tom Thel
Davidson College

Kelton

Dear Editor:

Bob Strauser’s article in the November 20 issue of THE DAVIDSON expresses a viewpoint of mine as follows: ‘Dr. Kelton
stated the only legitimate purpose of fraternities on this campus would be to foster fellowship and allow students to come
in close contact with other diverse personalities.” I did not claim that this was the only legitimate purpose. In fact,
I stated that fraternities served to develop social skills of their members and that many other purposes could be named.
I was suggesting, and I still suggest, that fraternity men begin to examine the purposes of fraternities; that they determine
which of these purposes are consistent with the purposes and that they attempt to determine which of these purposes would
be interfered with by a one hundred per cent bidding system.

I believe that many fraternity functions, such as the two presented above, are consistent with college purposes and would not
be interfered with by one hundred per cent bidding. I suspect that some purposes of fraternities are inconsistent with college
purposes, and also would be interfered with by one hundred percent bidding; so much the better. I vote one hundred
per cent bidding. There may also be fraternity functions which are consistent with college goals and which will be interfered
with by one hundred per cent bidding. If this is so, there is reason to question one hundred per cent
bidding.

John D. Kelton
Assoc. Prof. Psychology
Davidson College

ON SCRIPTS ‘N PRANKS

“The Fault, Dear Scripts ‘N Pranks, Lies Not With Your Editors, But in Your Writers”

By WAYNE MIXON

Editor’s Note: This is the second in a series by Wayne Mixon, Davidson student in the Junior Year Abroad Program.

Budapest, Hungary is much larger than the other East European capitals, built almost entirely in a late nineteenth-century neoclassical style
to celebrate Hungarian freedom at that time. Two cities, Buda and Pest, separated by the Danube River, represent the busiest
industrial trading center in East Europe. However, the people are not as well-dressed as those in Prague, and faces seem
to show a general feeling of discontent. The statue of Stalin, where a student demonstration in 1956 fomented a spontaneous
full-scale four-day revolution throughout the entire city, has been removed, but the people still feel a real displeasure with the
existing Soviet occupation. The Hungarian Parliament, designed very much like the British Parliament, remains open a few days during the
year — and then only to special “Youth Pioneer Groups” of the Communist Party. The signs of the Revolution in
1956 were removed quickly after the Russian soldiers ended that short but valiant Hungarian surge of freedom. Today Budapest has
a very rich and active cultural life and actually the newest autobuses in all of Europe — a few signs
of progress and promise.

ROUMANIA

Roumania provides a shock. In the central train station of the capital city, Bucharest, Roumanians checked in their baggage. They
were not suitcases, but rather cloth sacks and packs, axes and large wine bottles covered with thatched material; the Roumanians
dressed like pre-World War I peasants, with big fur caps snapping across the top; they left the station riding in
wagons pulled by oxen (in Poland they had horses). This year marks the twentieth anniversary of the liberation of Roumania
from Nazi occupation, and there was a large economic fair to show the Roumanian people how far their country has
improved in twenty years. It was a real extravagant exhibition, on the scale of a small world's fair with new
buildings, music of the United States (Ray Conniff), many flags of Roumania and the Soviet Union, and refreshment stands. The
items displayed were numerous and varied, but the onlooking people dressed in shabby pre-World War I costumes were much more
stunning. A rich country showing the poor people a rich exhibition of theirProgress seems like a joke.

BULGARIA

The conduct and appearances of passengers on public transportation systems will depict a great deal of the nation represented. The
compartments filled with poor shabby peasants, without proper food and clothing and a terrific stench, explained a lot before arriving.
Extremely complicated, different That They Are Lousy. —MLH

PAGE THREE | TAYLOR REPORTS HOME

DC Student Overseas Praises Life In Germany

As you have perhaps already guessed, the main purpose of this letter is to convey some information from this end
of the Junior Year Abroad Program to those students who are now, or may later be, interested in incorporating a
year of study at the Phillips University into their undergraduate education. My words run only to hearty and enthusiastic encouragement.
Hopefully, you who are interested will not expect too much from this letter. I am namely not yet able to
characterize or analyze for you the German educational system, but I thought you might enjoy hearing about the everyday things,
such as food, housing, and girls—which are what we have, of course, first noticed. The latter are unfortunately a bit
scarce, due to the higher ratio of men studying here. But, what is of course not true at Davidson, if
you take part in any of the many cultural, educational, or recreational activities of the University you could hardly avoid
meeting them. Especially when there is added POLITICAL STRUCTURES ANALYZED

Mixon Sends Impressions Of Communist Europe

The older uncompromising citizens; the degree of success with the young people can be measured with the student demonstration in
1956 which brought the whole world to its feet in horror at the exposure of naked Communist slavery. In Romania,
the people remain extremely poor, while a thriving “Chamber of Commerce” in Bucharest welcomes world trade; having chosen industry instead
of agriculture which was Russia’s preference, these people move bravely ahead to trade with Western powers. The people of Bulgaria
are a forgotten group who have ceased to sound their own drums, but march in a “me-too” cadence with Russian
proposals, hoping that someday something will happen and things will get better in Bulgaria. In Sofia, Bulgaria, it seemed that
all of Bulgaria smelled bad; in the best hotel in Sofia it smelled: it was the smell of a country
rotting away and which hasn’t been cleaned for centuries. Workingmen who dress daily in Russian Revolution costumes had gathered in
front of a depot for a contest to put out a small fire; behind them painted on the building was
Lenin riding on a sea of Red flags and clenched fists with the numerals 1917. This is largely the extent
to which Communism has succeeded—the situation of poor workingmen, better off than in the time of Lenin?

YUGOSLAVIA

Yugoslavia shows another side of Communism. In this country, the people are very proud of their own socialist revolution, later
defiance of Stalin, and the progress with unprecedented speed as new bridges, highways, factories, and schools are being built with
the help of other foreign countries. Yugoslavia is moving away from stiff one-rule control into a welfare state that permits
some individual freedom and initiative but still on a cloudy undefined basis. Wages are low and prices quite high, the
future somewhat uncertain with wavering power in the Kremlin. Schools are few and young people continue to leave to work
in Western countries; these are all problems which the Yugoslavian government has attempted to solve without direct force and oppression.
A flood damaged a large area in northern Yugoslavia this autumn and the United States immediately sent financial aid and
supplies; the people remarked that they knew very well who came to their aid—not their partner in Communism—Russia—but rather the
United States. The clean train coaches and modern station at Trieste, Italy, the large oil fields outside Venice, the crowded
highways with new cars, the well-dressed and well-fed passengers—all indicated that just across the border from Yugoslavia there was a
very rich and progressive Western country, in contrast with those Bloc countries of Eastern Europe.

RELATION TO USSR

The relationship of East European countries to Russia is extremely complicated, different to which such people will be able to
spread successfully their own oppressive doctrine. It is only on paper that the Marxist ideas supported by the Communist Party
have ever really succeeded. The people of Communist countries feel that to be deprived of personal belongings by a man
with many words and a big gun (without suggestion from Radio Free Europe) for the “supposed” good of some vague
“mass” of unknown people is not a doctrine worth their support, but rather a yoke to be thrown off. These
people are actually aware that they are being drained by a subtle but ruthless hand—chosen aristocracy which remains in power
as long as it is able to control the “total State.” A common expression among the people of these countries—“You’re
living like an American”—is heard whenever life becomes a little more than daily oppression and worry over essential needs. Communism
is a giant experiment that has failed for the most part, failing most tragically those people it was designed to
help, but continues to serve a hand-chosen aristocracy who drain the people of everything they have.

WEST COULD WIN

The West could crack the Communist yoke in time by applying more economic pressure on all aspects of trade with
the Communist countries until a total economic blockade existed. But the results could be more frightening if the millions of
people in these countries revolted and sought out their own forms of government. With the repercussions of such a large
realignment and rebalance of power in Asia and Europe, the world would be faced with more complex and dangerous problems
than the situation presents today. The strength and capability of Russia and her Bloc countries are very overrated. Although developed
highly in some key areas, the overall strength of the Communist countries will not likely match that of the West,
and represents in fact a big power bluff. It is a bluff that is too costly to call, but nevertheless
it is a bluff. Peaceful coexistence will continue as long as the West remains strong and alert, without technical or
negligent mistakes and the other countries of the world remain conscious of this fact.

Innocence Abroad - Mixon's Ramblings

Germany only twice a week. The students in the dorm are most friendly and helpful. We all have German roommates,
except Bill Walker, who has a single room. Several of us have invitations from our roommates or other friends to
visit at home with them for a weekend. Also, their advice on academic and social matters has proven quite helpful.
The administration of the house often plans outings to an opera or concert in Frankfurt, Kassel, or some other city
in the vicinity, often in connection with a nearby girls’ dorm. I hesitate to go on with more details, though
I easily and enthusiastically could. I or any of the students here will be happy to answer any questions, specific
or general, that you might have. Also, other letters from myself and others will appear later in THE DAVIDSONIAN, hopefully
of interest to everyone, but especially to potential “Marburger Kommilitonen.”

By HANK TAYLOR
Davidson Student Abroad

The results of two full years of astonishing gentlemanly development. The food in the Mensa, or student cafeteria, is quite
good, and when the price is considered astounding. At the cheapest price, which by no means signifies mediocre food or
small helpings, one can eat both lunch and dinner for a total of less than 50c. One must secure his
own breakfast, as is customary in German universities, but that is reckoned as an advantage, since it means a tempting
visit to a “Lebensmittelgeschäft” or a “Bäckerei.” Our rooms are generally about the size of those in Little Dorm, thoroughly
comfortable, warm, and spotlessly kept by the “Putzfrauen.” The dorms are extremely convenient with mailboxes, a kitchen on each floor,
an icebox compartment for each room, extra space for entertaining, meetings, studying, and relaxing, a television, a radio and stereo
hi-fi, and a small library. Something you might have to get used to is that water for showers is heated
only twice a week.
