PAGE FOUR

JUDY ADAMS
Woman’s College
Kappa Sigma

MRS. HONEY WHITTLE
Sigma Alpha Epsilon

LESLIE MOORE
Queens College
Sigma Chi

VIRGINIA TAYLOR
Mary Baldwin College
Beta Theta Pi

After Vespers

SHAROLYN HOOSE
Converse College
Sigma Phi Epsilon

MARY C. FARRIS
Univ. of Virginia
Sigma Nu

Homecoming Queen Candidates

PENE TURNER
Univ. of Georgia
Kappa Alpha Order

Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brown, E. E.
Gable
Martin, J. G.
Swicord
Burts
Gill
Meetze
Welsh
Currie
Griffin
Mitchell
White, L.
Daggy
Kelton
Mrs. Nicholls
Driesell
Labban
Richey
Williams, G. M.
Fraley
Lilly
Scott
Patterson, W. B.

‘AIMS OF FOREIGN POLICY’

Federal Bureaucrat To Speak On Monday
BY MIKE BATES
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Col. Francis Pickens Miller, special assistant to the Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs, will address the
student body Monday morning during chapel period. Miller will speak on “Aims of American Foreign Policy” as part of the
YMCA’s Great Issues Program.

COL. FRANCIS MILLER

Col. Miller was born in Kentucky and was raised in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia. After graduation from Washington and
Lee University, he received BA and MA degrees as a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University. He is a member of
Phi Gamma Delta and Phi Beta Kappa. A former member of the Virginia House of Delegates from Fairfax County (1938-1941),
Col. Miller ran unsuccessfully for Governor of Virginia and for the U. S. Senate. For many years he has been
a leader in the Virginia Democratic Party in support of the candidates for the national Democratic Party. Since 1964 he
has been a member of the Central Committee of the World Council of Churches, and as a layman has served
his own church (Presbyterian, U.S.) in various capacities.

Davidson Graduate To Speak Sunday

The Rev. W. Robert Martin will speak at vespers Sunday night. The Rev. Mr. Martin is Dean of Students at
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. A native of Louisiana, he received his AB degree from Davidson in 1957. He
comes to us after earning his BD degree from Union Theological Seminary and studying a year at Edinburgh, Scotland.

HAROYLN STOKES
Furman Univ.
Pi Kappa Alpha

ELLEN BAREFIELD
Rollins College
Lingle Manor

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SHARON ELLER
Greensboro College
Pi Kappa Phi

ANNE HAMILTON
Greensboro College
Phi Gamma Delta

RHETT SAPP
Queens College
Phi Delta Theta

SANDRA GREEN
Richmond Prof. Inst.
Alpha Tau Omega

YRC Elects Officers, Adopts A Constitution

After a week’s consideration of a proposed constitution, the Young Republicans Club met Wednesday night, unanimously adopted the constitution and
elected officers for the year. Elected chairman of the YRC, Walter Edgar conducted the election of the other officers. Larry
Noah will serve as vice-chairman and Harry McMullen as corresponding secretary. Elected recording secretary was Gordon Ball with Joe Obenshain
as treasurer. Edgar reminded the Young Republicans that the deadline for absentee ballots in North Carolina is Oct. 28, less
than a week before the Nov. 3 election date. The club is considering a drive to remind students to apply
for ballots and vote in the election. The YRC has been conducting a survey of the student body to determine
party affiliation and presidential preferences. Results of the poll will be announced at the next meeting of the club on
Wednesday. Referring to a resolution passed by the College Council Convention of the North Carolina Federation of Young Republicans held
in Durham this month, Edgar said the resolution declared support of fraternities and sororities in the effort to improve their
system and the role they play on the campus today.

Connoisseur’s Heaven!

The best looking Old School clothes in this wide, wide world adorn our fabulous Cupboards including so many Milton exclusives.
This is a mere teaser of the wonderful world of exclusives awaiting you at Milton's. A pant is not just
a pant with us, Milton’s tries to do a superior fitting job on the long, the short and the tall
with proportioned crotches for a smarter tailored fit, many new colorings and fabrics — from $14.95. A sport coat isn't
just another jacket to wear some trousers with, but a work of art for smart coordination. New toned herringbones, out
of this world plaids and houndstooth from $39.95. No one in this whole wide world has a shirt to match
our fabulous M-2 higher collar perfect roll button-down shirts — in a most unusual array of new stripings — from
$5.95.

Milton's — Clothing Cupboard
Glamorous Charlottetown Mall
Cupboards also in Chapel Hill, Atlanta, and Dallas

Graduate of the class of '64 and founder of the “Great Issues” program, Walt MacDonald needs no introduction.Introduction to most
of the present residents of God's little acre in the Piedmont. In fact, the much-heralded Davidson degree has carried MacDonald
no further than the slums of Charlotte. As a case worker for the Mecklenburg County Welfare Department, he has exchanged
the Davidson classroom for the often sordid world of the underprivileged, a world filled for the most part with:

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1964

IN CHARLOTTE SLUMS

To be specific, MacDonald works in the aid-to-dependent-children program — assisting mothers temporarily or permanently without their husbands. “Upper-middle-class Davidson
never sees this world,” said MacDonald. “You encounter incest, rape, desertions, illegitimacy...; this is really opening my eyes to the
reality of the underprivileged.” MacDonald plans to enter an Episcopal seminary next year and is now living with two students,
one from Drexel Institute and the other doing a field study for a degree in social work for UNC.

Conservatives Elect Campbell President

Davidson's Conservative Club, reorganized this year with Dan Campbell as its president, has planned a year of intensive study with
panel discussions, outside speakers, and various other programs to supplement its activities. Officers elected last week at the club's first
meeting of the year were Campbell, president; Billy Clark, vice-president; Louis Lesesne, secretary; and Butch Allison, treasurer. According to Campbell,
this year’s projects will include sponsoring panel discussions, securing outside speakers, encouraging student awareness of the political life of America,
and possibly compiling a library of pertinent reference materials.

The program for next Tuesday’s meeting will be a panel discussion among several newspapermen from Charlotte and surrounding towns who
will discuss and analyze the role of the press in political polling and reporting. The Davidson Conservatives belong to the
Intercollegiate Society of Individualists, which supplies literature and speakers to its members throughout the year. As such, the local is
not permitted to engage in political activism and will consequently not campaign as a club for any candidate. The purposes
of the Conservative Club, as stated in its charter, are to encourage participation in politics, to discuss and evaluate political
theories, to stimulate political awareness on the campus, to work for civic and political responsibility based on a rational and
responsible interpretation of our constitution, and to promote an active program to support these purposes.

The Davidson graduate had to take the State Merit Exam in making an application for his position. “Although the salary
isn’t great ($90 per week),” reported MacDonald, “the agency does have a program that will send you to graduate school
in social work. The Charlotte welfare program is among the most advanced in the nation.” Most of his casework is
with women from 25 to 30. Said MacDonald, “The dependent mothers with whom I work are frequently surprised to speak
with a male social worker; also they aren't used to any of the social amenities — such as being addressed
as Mrs... .”

The area assigned to MacDonald by the welfare office consists of the neighborhood on either side of the Highway 21
traffic islands on the Davidson side of Charlotte. He also works in the area surrounding the downtown urban renewal project.
Populating the world of Walt MacDonald are violence, pain, and the nebulous misery of “hard core” poverty. He sees the
face of the pre-teenage girl who has just been mistreated by her father; he sees the untended burns of a
young boy who was assumed unhurt “because he didn't cry.” But even this world is not without its occasional dignity.
Reported MacDonald, “A woman called the other day to tell me her husband had just been released from jail and
that I should cut off the welfare checks. If she had said nothing, she would probably have continued to receive
the money for two or three months.”

It has been written that “We can always find the inner strength to bear the misfortunes of others.” Such easy
cynicism, MacDonald is finding, belongs to a world other than his own.

HAPPY HOMECOMING!

TATE-BROWN’S

DO AS GRANT DID... “TAKE RICHMOND”

Tate - Brown’s wishes the students, parents, faculty, and friends a very enjoyable Homecoming weekend.

Bill Tate, PRESIDENT
Class of ‘28

THREE TATE-BROWN’S NATURAL SHOULDER SHOPS
TATE-BROWN'S CHARLOTTE
126 SOUTH TRYON STREET — 3rd FLOOR
COTSWOLD — WEST MALL
PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER
Free Parking at Rear of Downtown Store

“Insulaire”® thermal blanket, 10.00
MORGAN-JONES new Varsity Stripes... coordinates cum laude!
Morgan-Jones
A DIVISION OF SPRINGS MILLS, INC.
404 FIFTH AVE., N.Y., N.Y. 10018
