FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Flutist To Fill IFC Weekend

HERBIE MANN Fall Function Flutist

Flutist Herbie Mann will present a jazz concert, sponsored by the Interfraternity Council, at Fall Function Weekend, Nov. 14, in
Chambers Auditorium at 8 p.m. This, the second IFC presentation of the year, is another phase in the IFC's attempt
to satisfy every student taste at least once during the year. IFC president Rick von Unwerth expressed hope that “Herbie
Mann will receive the kind of acclaim here that he has received throughout the nation. We are indeed fortunate to
have an artist of his calibre on campus.”

Mann has had three albums on the best-selling lists the past year, including his first “Village Gate” album which skyrocketed
him into the big-time LP seller ranks. In the past six months, Mann was invited to participate in an international
conference on Latin American Affairs held at Lake Forest College in Chicago. Mann's research into the ethnic music of Africa
and South America has taken him to both continents. In 1960, he was chosen by the State Department to tour
Africa as part of our International Cultural Exchange Program. Besides giving concerts, Mann also listened to as much native music
as he could. On his return, he recorded two albums, which express what he heard.

Mann first visited Brazil during a 1961 South American concert tour where he met the young Brazilian composers and musicians
who were writing and playing the bossa nova. Believing that the folk rhythms of other countries can contribute to the
scope of jazz, the bossa nova has become part of the flutist’s wide repertoire. “At present,” Mann reports, “we're incorporating
Israeli, Eastern European, gypsy, and Turkish music into our presentations. Why not tap all the folk resources in order to
strengthen our jazz?”

STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL Miller Discusses U.S. Policy

By BOB STRAUSER Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Unfortunately some people, when they think about foreign policy, prefer to think about it in terms of the past rather
than in terms of current actualities and future possibilities.” With these words, Col. Francis Miller, State Department Assistant in the
Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, set the tone of his Monday assembly address. After apologizing for having to speak
from a prepared text, Col. Miller continued his view of “The Aims and Goals of American Foreign Policy” for the
Great Issues Series.

To begin with, he noted three over-riding “current actualities”: dynamic change within the world political structure; the emergence of Russia
and the U.S. to “bestride the world like Colossi”; and the domination of these two nations over the rest of
the world. Although his text included some remarks on the neutral nations in this power structure, the campus visitor chose
to omit them. Included in these remarks was the admission, “We not only understand but respect the desire of a
developing nation to avoid policies which necessitate the diversion of its limited resources to armaments."

Miller moved on to China, “standing off-stage in the shadows.” He dismissed any immediate threat to the West. “In any
event, her (China's) preoccupation at the moment seems to be primarily with seizing control of the world Communist movement from
Russia.” A statement of our aims and goals, quoted from a Dean Rusk address, culminated in a cliché-sounding summary of
the whole topic. “We are working to achieve a world of equal rights and equal opportunities for the whole human
race.”

How is the United States working to achieve this world? Said Miller, maintaining the might to deter aggression; we are
continuing to search for agreement with the Communists wherever possible; we will promote trends in the Communist world toward independence
and individual freedom. Finally, we will continue to suggest cooperative enterprises to further the common interests of man (such as
the desalinization of sea water).

But, according to the State Department official, this is not enough. “It is the policy of the United States to
contribute in every possible way to strengthening the community of free nations.” He pointed in particular to NATO and to
a “recognition of the interdependence of the nations bordering on the North Atlantic.” We must also be diligent, noted Miller,
in our aid to developing nations. “There is no more glorious chapter in the long saga of the human race
than the chapter which began with the Marshall Plan and which we propose to continue until the job is done.”

Miller's final topic was a defense of the United Nations as the “world’s principal liberty hall. No institution in the
world is making a greater contribution to peace and prosperity than the United Nations and it deserves our wholehearted support.”
In closing his address, Col. Miller noted that we “are living in the most exciting and challenging period of human
history.” He noted in particular his “envy” of college men today and offered his own benediction to the present generation.

Grimes Organizes ROTC Unit

The Davidson ROTC Special Forces unit has once again been organized, this year under the leadership of commanding officer, Sam
Grimes. Assisting him will be Steve Ramsburgh, executive officer, and Capt. Harold Fraley, officer-in-charge.

At the group's initial meeting last week, Grimes stressed the need for quality over quantity. He also said the Special
Forces program is open to all MS-III's and MS-IV's and also to outstanding MS-II cadets, but Grimes points out that
standards this year will be higher than in the past. He then outlined prospective plans for the year. Meetings will
be held every other week, at which time a class or patrol will be held. In addition, one field problem
a semester will be undertaken, and additional work with the Special Forces unit in Charlotte is also foreseen. Grimes also
expressed his hope that the Davidson unit will be able to obtain berets, such as those worn last year, and
special insignia designating Special Forces cadets.

STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL

COL. FRANCIS MILLER U.S. Foreign Policy Expert

Ten Cadet Officers Tapped

Scabbard and Blade, national military honorary society, tapped ten cadet officers Tuesday for the returning class from last year. Those
tapped include Grant, Ronnie Clark, Larry Ayers, Jim Compton, Jimmy Fergueen, Disk Jones, Dale Keller, John Stephens, and Parker Winkler
(Staff Photos by Thel).

Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Applewhite
Beck
Bondurant
Bryan
Campbell
Cole
Frey
Holland
Lester
Lindsey
McGill
Mebane
Rogerson
Sailstad
Van Egmond
White, H. E.
Wruck
Johnson, N. M.

Carolina Republican

Born in 1918, Babcock is a native of Virginia. For economic and political reasons, in 1958 Babcock helped organize and
became the president of Central Piedmont Industries, Inc., a local employers association for the purpose of preserving a favorable climate
in Charlotte. Babcock is a member of the board of the National Association of Manufacturers and past president of Manufacturers
Surgical Trade Association. In Charlotte, Babcock has served on the city council, as an Elder of Trinity Presbyterian Church, and
as a civic leader serving on the board of many local non-profit organizations.

Union To Sponsor Halloween Party

The College Union will sponsor a “Halloween’s Eve Hoedown” next Friday, Oct. 30, from 7:30-11:30 p.m. Featured entertainers will be
the Swinging Pedros Combo, with activities including hayrides and a fortune teller.will also be featured. Dress will be boots and
Stetson, jeans and dungarees. Admission is free.

College Chaplain To Speak Sunday

Chaplain Will Terry will deliver the sermon at this Sunday's vespers. This year more sermons have been reserved for the
chaplain than in the past. Terry gives a twofold explanation for this fact. First, by living on the campus, the
college chaplain can speak with more authority on things concerning the students. Also, this allows students the opportunity to discuss
the sermon with the preacher. Secondly, regularly spaced sermons by the chaplain give continuity to the whole vespers program. This
Sunday, Terry's sermon grows out of a community experience which members of the college family have all recently shared.

SHOWS PRINTER’S INK

Hogan Passes Hours With Handmade Press

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Somewhere in Davidson, late at night, a man stands in a small, cramped room, bent over a crude wooden printing
press. He works intently, pausing only to repeat the words, “Nashita,” over and over again. Finally, he stops, leans back
in a chair, pipe in hand, and contentedly inspects the results of his efforts. The man is not a fanatical
member of the local communist cell turning out his daily quota of propaganda, and Nashita is not the name of
his boss. Rather, Hogan is a Davidson English professor, and Nashita is his 12-week-old puppy. The product of his labor
is not propaganda, but whatever Hogan feels like printing at the time. The press is and has been Hogan’s hobby
for years.

PROFESSOR MORELAND HOGAN With His Unusual Hobby (Staff Photo)

FOR HEART AILMENT

Patterson Confined To Charlotte Hospital

Associate Professor of Economics Ernest F. Patterson is reported to be resting comfortably in Charlotte Memorial Hospital after developing a
heart condition. Dr. Patterson was admitted to the hospital on Oct. 13 after suffering from dizzy spells and some pain.
His condition has been diagnosed as angina, a disease which affects the blood vessels leading to the heart. It was
also indicated that Dr. Patterson was suffering from exhaustion when admitted to the hospital. Because of his condition, Dr. Patterson
has been allowed no visitors, according to his wife. He is in room 322 of Memorial Hospital, and any mail
can be sent to him there. Mrs. Patterson felt that it would be at least two weeks or more before
her husband would be released from the hospital.

While hospitalized, his classes are being taken over by the other members of the economics department. Dr. Nelson is teaching
his Economics 61 class. This arrangement will be more definite when Dr. Patterson's condition is clearer. Angina can be controlled
by medication and rest, though it is often painful.

REGARDING TODAY'S STUDENTS

Hunter Urges Maximum Effort

Dr. John Hunter, now President of Louisiana State University, reportedly once released the college wildcat from its cage while an
undergraduate at Davidson. In Tuesday's assembly, Hunter did not allude to this experience (for which he was reportedly campused) but
spoke instead on the “Responsibility of the Educated Individual.”

“There is nothing in the experience of man quite like a homecoming... and today that pleasure is mine,” said Hunter.
He went on to relate a family anecdote concerning his inauguration as President of LSU five years ago. After thus
“warming up” his audience, the Davidson graduate (class of '34) proceeded to his topic. Culturally, economically, and technologically, he noted,
the present generation has more responsibilities than did his own. Said Hunter, “There is a need to consider not only
self but service as a principal motivating force... If the responsibility is not assumed by you, the educated, then who
will assume it?”

The speaker made it clear that his words were directed to the individual or they would be without meaning. “The
maximum effort is demanded from all; it is a tragedy for you as an individual not to use your skills,
talents, and knowledge to the greatest possible extent.” On higher education, Hunter sounded the familiar refrain, “The purpose of your
college life is to teach you to teach yourself.” He noted that leadership has often been assumed by young men
and put forward the idea that education is responsible for youthful leadership. “One might envision the uneducated as having a
dull axe while the educated man has a sharp one,” said Hunter metaphorically. He called to mind the Davidson crest
showing the sword of truth slaying the serpent of ignorance. With these closing remarks, Dr. Hunter retired to the Union
for a coffee hour—no doubt wondering if anyone remained who might recall the “wildcat incident of '32.”

The press Hogan uses he made himself out of plywood, hinges, and screws. It is about three feet high, five
and one-half feet long, and crude enough to make Gutenberg seem like a master technician. It is, however, completely the
product of Hogan's inspiration, labor, and time. Described as a “homemade flatbed press,” it is capable of printing about 30
sheets an hour. The Owl Press, named by Hogan to give the press an air of dignity (“because owls are
supposed to be wise”), owns eight fonts of type, type-picture inserts, and a few linoleum linotype cuts. Hogan, the sole
staff member, writes his copy, sets his type, prints his masterpieces, and usually enjoys the fruits of his labor alone.
To make any illustrations needed for his creations, Hogan himself must carve pictures out of linoleum blocks. This process requires
not only at least some artistic skill but also a great deal of patience. “If you have no patience,” according
to Hogan, “you can't do something like this; if you have a little, you'll end up with a lot.”

What started as a mere interest in printing by Hogan, who describes himself as having “printer's ink” in his veins,
turned into a full-time hobby, culminating in the creation of the press. It serves no practical purpose, according to Hogan,
other than occasional printing for Christmas cards, invitations, or, as he is doing now, a booklet on “nothing in particular.”
It is, as all good hobbies should be, a senseless, impractical waste of time. But who knows, perhaps in the
guise of a mild-mannered, absent-minded professor, we have another Gutenberg on campus.

Jonas Educator To Recruit

Dr. Arthur G. Powell, assistant to the Dean of the Harvard University Graduate School of Education, will be on the
Davidson campus Monday to discuss the Master of Arts in Teaching Program being offered by Harvard University. Powell is reputedly
a strong voice for attracting more talented young men into the field of secondary and elementary education. He is the
author of a booklet “Educational Careers and the Missing Elite” widely circulated among undergraduates concerning the challenge of a career
in teaching today. Powell will open discussion in the Morrison Room between 11 a.m. and 12:15 p.m. and conduct individual
interviews between 2 and 5 p.m. Anyone interested in such an interview should contact the Student Counseling Office.
