THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1964

Wildcats Meet Lehigh In Interregional Contest

Davidson’s Wildcats invade Bethlehem, Pennsylvania tomorrow afternoon to take on the Lehigh Engineers in an interregional non-conference contest. If the
favored ‘Cats win over Lehigh tomorrow, they will extend their season record to 3-4, retaining the possibility of a winning
season.

The Engineers, who have yet to win a game this year, would like nothing better than to wreck Davidson and
get a taste of victory themselves. They are 0-6 for the season and will undoubtedly be going all-out to win
this one. While Lehigh’s record is anything but impressive, they have gone down to some pretty tough competition, including Yale
(5-0-1) and Rutgers (5-1-0).

Coach Tom Stevens, who scouted Lehigh’s game with Colgate, reports, “They looked good at times, but they were not consistent.
They have two pretty fair quarterbacks, who like to roll out and throw the ball on the run.” Engineer Coach
Mike Cooley, who called 1963 a building season, seems to be stuck with the same situation in 1964. Although his
quarterbacks, Les Kish and Bob Draucker, are fair, they are nothing spectacular, and they are handicapped by a slow backfield.
Mike Noel, at left halfback, is their leading ground gainer. He is aided by fullback Harold Weis.

Up front the Engineers have a fine pass receiver in Chuck Smith.

TEAM STATISTICS
DAV. OPP.
49 FIRST DOWNS, RUSHING 60
18 FIRST DOWNS, PASSING 22
6 FIRST DOWNS, PENALTY 2
73 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 84
364 TOTAL OFFENSIVE PLAYS 365
817 NET RUSHING YARDAGE 1042
499 NET PASSING YARDAGE 561
1316 TOTAL OFFENSE 1603
2 PASSES INTERCEPTED BY 3
13/8 FUMBLES NO/LOST 19/13
40/389 PENALTIES 40/389

Cross Countrymen Cop Second In State

By Davidsonian Sports Writer

“I’m really happy with the boys,” beamed track coach A. H. Whittle after the varsity Davidson harriers had captured second
place in the State Cross Country Championships Monday. “This is the first time Davidson has placed this far up in
years.”

The Wildcats had a total of 59 points in the 4.0-mile race over the N. C. State course in Raleigh.
The University of North Carolina galloped away with first-place honors by taking five places in the top ten and producing
a low score of 23. Davidson downed Wake Forest (third with 74 points), N. C. State (fourth with 130 points),
and Duke (fifth with 141 points).

Commented team leader and tri-captain John Barrow, “Davidson really put out a good team effort.” The group finish of the
team provides ample evidence of this fact: John Barrow, Tommy Heffner, Andy Little, Jesse Sims, Robert Dean, Ron Reese, and
Denny Phillips, all of whom took places in the 18, 25, and 28, respectively.

The freshman overlanders finished their season with a fifth-place standing at the state meet, also held last Monday at Raleigh.
Duke, Wake Forest, UNC, and N. C. State took spots above the “Kittens.”

Davidson’s varsity Whittle-men have two more meets on tap, both of which will be run on Davidson's 4.2-mile home course.
High Point will be hosted on November 10, and the Southern Conference Championship will be conducted here on November 16.
States Whittle, “On the basis of times run in other meets, West Virginia seems to be the strongest team entered
in the conference run.”

Smith Breaks Rushing Mark Against Furman

By SAM BOYTE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

If a down-hearted Davidson alumnus were to have been asked before last week what sort of records the Wildcats would
set this season, he would probably have laughed. He might have gone on to speculate, “Perhaps most fumbles, highest number
of points given up, or maybe, if Yahweh is with us, Heckard will set some sort of passing marks.”

This fountainhead of college spirit would have overlooked Davidson's halfback Steve Smith. By stepping off 162 yards in 24 plays,
Smith broke the Davidson running mark of 159 yards that Jim Thacker set almost a decade and a half ago
against Presbyterian College.

Coach Bill Dole exclaimed, “A fine exhibition of running. What else can we say?” Actually, he did have a bit
more to say. Dole continued, “We're glad he got it (the record). He has been our best runner all year
long. He has good fluid motion, and he runs easily.”

Smith, a junior from Camila, Ga. whose 5' 11" frame weighs in at 170 pounds, is not the largest member
of the backfield, but he is generally conceded to be the biggest when it comes to running form. It must
be pointed out that this was no one flash of glory for Smith. He has performed well all year long,
leading the Wildcats in total running yardage, with 360 yards in 84 carries for an average of 4.6 yards per
carry. In his sophomore year, Smith alternated between defensive and offensive positions.

Davidson's “Salts” Untangle Sails

The Davidson College Sailing Club, dedicated to promoting sailing at the Lake Campus, was organized last week, composed of 30
students and faculty members. Though only a week old, the Club has already received its first regatta invitation but declined
for a lack of sufficient operation.

The organization of the club has been well accepted despite the brevity of its existence. The library offered to purchase
sailing books, as well as a subscription to Yachting magazine, the “bible” of sailors. One of the Sailing Club's first
aims is to purchase three to six middle-sized sailboats, known as Y Flyers, which they intend to allow the Physical
Education Department to use. One of the more established sailing groups, the Lake Norman Yacht Club, expressed interest in participating
in the purchase of the new boats.

Coach Charles Parker, director of the Lake Campus water facilities, has been instrumental in the increased participation in water sports
at Davidson and will probably become the Sailing Club’s advisor. Club representatives are Bob Orr and Chip Robertson, while Tommy
Hunter was elected secretary last week.Halfback, earning his letter as a regular on last year's squad. This year he has
worked almost solely on offense as a result of Dole’s platoon system. It has paid off for Smith because his
natural talent has been honed to a keen edge. But says teammate David Sprinkle, “Last year Steve wasn't spinning off
exactly right. But he's got self-confidence, and he's really conscientious. That plus his natural talent is probably what makes him
click."

“Now he's as smooth as can be. His form is just like a book on blocking. His pass defense is
just like the still shots you see in Sports Illustrated. That's why he’s called ‘Slick’ Smith.”

Smith’s yardage total was more than that of the entire offensive gain generated by Furman. He accounted for two of
three touchdowns. On the second play of the fourth quarter, Smith went over tackle for the Wildcats’ second six points.
Later he loped around right end for 38 yards to give Davidson its final score of the game.

Dole felt that Smith's ability showed up so well this week because of a strong effort by the whole team.
“We've been working on everything for the whole season, and it finally jelled. The boys put together a fine game.
Better offensive blocking enabled Steve to see a little more daylight.” Sprinkle added, “Everybody was clicking. A boy that they've
got confidence in, they'll block for."

Long-range plans of the club include obtaining membership in either the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association or the Southeastern Intercollegiate
Sailing Association. The latter consists of fifteen member clubs which take turns hosting regattas for the other members. Meanwhile, the
club is corresponding with Yachting magazine as it organizes.

Sailing has been enjoyed at the Lake Campus since the college bought its boats, but this year the popularity of
water sports has soared with the offering of water-skiing and sailing to sophomores in P.E. At present, the Davidson Athletic
Department owns 1 motorboat, 1 sailboat, 3 canoes, and 1 fishing boat. All these boats except the motorboat, which is
used as a stand-by boat, are available for student use.

Dr. Tom Scott, Director of Athletics, noted that a ramp will be built before spring for mooring sailboats. This will
provide a shelter for the Sailing Club's projected purchases. Commented Dr. Scott, “This sailing club could be the influencing factor
on the college administration; we have a wonderful facility at the lake, and we should make complete use of it.
This year we have been helped tremendously by the sailors in the student body who gave instruction to those sophomores
taking physical education over there.”

One aspect of the Lake Campus in Dr. Scott's mind is the establishment of crew as an intercollegiate and intermural
sport at Davidson. Though jokingly mentioned in Sports Illustrated in a basketball feature on the Wildcats last year, crew has
definite appeal to Dr. Scott, who continued, “Crew would give us another outlet for students to participate in athletics intercollegiately.
It might cost a little to get started, but I feel the benefits would outweigh the outlay of funds.”

STEVE SMITH — AN OUTSTANDING RUNNER

"That's why he’s called ‘Slick’ Smith”

Quarterback Jake Jacobsen had performed as a veteran in his first varsity starting role. Sophomore halfback John Walker, also making
his first appearance, had gained an important 60 yards, often literally running over would-be tacklers. End Bill Rikard had smashed
through the Furman line, blocked a punt, picked it up, and raced the five yards to paydirt without breaking stride.
Pack Hindsley had been all over the field on tackle after tackle. Linemen Mike Cummings and Jerry Blackstock had begun
the scoring by trapping fullback Ernie Zuberer behind his goal for a safety. The list goes on.

The first half witnessed a defensive downing of a Jacobsen punt on the Furman one-yard line. On the next play,
Paladin fullback Zuberer was met by Davidson's interior line and swarmed under back of his goal-line. The teams retired at
halftime with the ‘Cats holding a slim 2-0 lead.

After the Wildcat defense had halted Furman on their own twenty, Rikard burst through to block the punt and push
the lead to 8-0 at 5:16 of the third quarter. Jim Terry's perfect P.A.T. made it 9-0. On the first
play of the last quarter, the defense again excelled. Dick Short pounced on a Furman fumble to give the ‘Cats
possession on the enemy six. Smith seized the opportunity and smashed off tackle for his first score of the day.
At 6:07 of the fourth quarter, Smith ended the record-breaking performance by skirting right end for 38 yards and another
T.D.

Ortham, who Coach Stevens reports is often used as a split end, will be assisted by Joe Walton at the
other end. Tackle Tony Hrincevich is a fine blocker and is tough on defense. Coach Dole hopes to repeat what
happened last week. “There will be no changes in the lineup; we'll start with the same men we used against
Furman. That means Jake Jacobsen will be leading the ‘Cats at quarterback. Dole explained, “After he played such a fine
game last week, I can’t tell him to go back and sit on the bench again.”

Steve Heckard is fully recovered from the flu and should see plenty of action at quarterback. With both Heckard and
Jacobsen playing, the ‘Cats should be able to come up with a potent offense. Joining them in the backfield will
be Johnny Walker at left half, Steve Smith at right, and Dave Hendricks at fullback.

LOOK YOUR BEST FOR FUNCTION WEEKEND

Let us put the right impressions on all your sport clothes, suits, pants, and sweaters. Have your favorite shirts done
to your liking by experts. Try us.

JACKSON CLEANERS
Across from the Gulf Station, Main St.

YOUR ALLIGATOR GOES WITH YOU EVERYWHERE

Alligator

The luxurious fabric, the good-looking styling, the sure all-weather protection make this the smart coat to own... one that’s always
popular with men of good taste everywhere. Water repellent, of course. Get yours now.

Jack & Son
MOORESVILLE
Open Friday Nights
CHARGE ACCOUNTS INVITED
