THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1964

Just File As
BY JOHN TODD

Aspiring students who wish to run in the Student Body elections next month will have to file as candidates themselves
instead of being nominated by another student, according to the changes recently adopted by the Student Council in the Elections
Procedure By-Laws. The elimination of the nomination procedure will greatly reduce the number of candidates, the Council hopes, and is
one of several changes to streamline all of the elections.

In years past so many students were nominated by their "best friends" that it often required three or four days
to complete the run-off elections. Instead of lasting nearly a month, this year's elections should not last more than ten
days, said Council President John Spratt.

In a further step to permit limited campaigning and to keep the dullness out of the elections, each candidate will
be allowed to distribute 200 copies of his platform "which will be stated in a fair and factual manner." The
printing costs will even be paid by the Student Council.

The balloting has been reduced from five to three categories:
1. Student Body Officers and Honor Court;
2. YMCA, Freshman Adviser, Publications Editors, College Union President, and cheerleaders; and
3. Student Council representatives.

Also, no student can be a candidate for both an Honor Court position and a Student Body office. Definite dates
for the elections will be set soon by the Elections Board, which the Council named at its meeting Monday night.
The group includes one senior from each of the 12 social fraternities and four non-fraternity seniors, plus a student council
member who serves as chairman.

Spratt also said that new ballot boxes have been ordered for these elections and that the NSA-oriented voting cards will
be distributed again to each student.

In other action the Council

‘National Review’ Story: Martin Sounds Rebuttal

Editor’s note: The following letter by President D. Grier Martin was originally addressed to Dr. William H. McCorkle, moderator of
the Presbyterian Church in the U.S. (Southern). The letter was distributed in mimeographed form to members of the Board of
Trustees prior to their meeting Wednesday.

Your letter about the article in the Christian Observer entitled "College Campuses" has been received. This survey was conducted in
1961-62 and 1962-63 and the results published in the October 8, 1963 issue of National Review, a conservative publication edited
by William F. Buckley, Jr. The survey was conducted by Educational Reviewer of which Russell Kirk, conservative writer and speaker,
is president. He spoke to the Davidson student body last year.

There were more than a hundred questions in the survey, many of them complex and undoubtedly tedious and somewhat boring
for college students, even though they are accustomed to lengthy tests. You may not know that all of the broad
sweeping statements about the number and the percentage of students believing certain things are based on answers from 7% of
the combined number of sophomore, junior, and senior undergraduates. The questionnaires were mailed and in some cases handed out personally.
If fewer than 7% replied, new mailings were sent. It was reported that excesses were scientifically discarded. (One could wonder
about the meaning of "scientifically.")

The Davidson students questioned were in the midst of their planned educational program at Davidson including the required courses in
religion. In these courses they are forced to examine their own faith and to raise questions. Students in other institutions
not confronted through such courses in religion never really examine such issues as are raised by these questions in the
National Review Survey. It is therefore likely that often the religious questions are ignored and little growth or religious maturing
takes place where there is no exposure.

Evidence is strong at Davidson that a sizeable number of our students treated the entire questionnaire as a joke and
that others found opportunities in parts of the survey to exhibit their senses of humor. For example, the survey reported
that 20 members of the Davidson student body indicated nursing as their intended field of concentration! The report also stated
that 40 of the Davidson students were reared as Roman Catholics and that 60 students were Catholics at the time
of the survey. Official Davidson records for the years in which the survey was made show that there were only
5 Catholics in the student body at any one time and 3 of these were foreign students at Davidson for
a one-year stay. This represents an error of 1100% and is suggestive of the probabilities of error in other categories.

In spite of this, the Christian Observer says that "on a number of predominantly Protestant campuses—ranging in character from Yale
to Davidson to Howard and Indiana—the Roman Catholic Church has apparently won a significant number of converts."

Passing over the catastrophes which are possible with a 7% sample of admittedly impatient and at times intolerant students, we
should consider the importance of the conditions under which courses of religion are given at these colleges, how many students
take them, and any other factors having a bearing on the reactions and attitudes of students. At Davidson every student
questioned would have had at least one year of required work in Bible and religion, and many of them would
have completed the two years required of every student who attends Davidson. No other non-Catholic college in the survey has
any requirement approaching this and the vast majority of their students naturally would not be affected by courses in religion.
In addition, students at Davidson are required to attend a large percentage of the religious services held twice a week
on the Davidson campus.

There is little doubt that required courses in religion and required attendance at two weekly religious services result—for the moment—in
hostile students. Because of these and other reasons, there is a "reaction against religion" which has been expressed at Davidson
through the years, and much of it was expressed by men who have gone on to provide much of the
ministerial and lay leadership in churches throughout the South and in many other areas of the country. It is not
abnormal or unusual for men who are required to think about any area of learning to "react" against some of
their earlier thoughts on the subject. Davidson students are encouraged to think through these areas with their own minds and
not just memorize what is in the Bible or textbook, or what is given in the teacher's lecture, so that
they can repeat it on the next examination. It is significantthat the Davidson students polled indicate by sizable majorities their
continued allegiance to the Christian faith and to their churches, with 88% of the sample stating their intention of rearing
their children in their own religious tradition, 86% indicating substantial or partial agreement with the religious tradition in which they
were reared, and 81% believing God to be all-powerful. Would it not be more appropriate to look at the record
which Davidson men have made after graduation and after they have had a chance to reflect on their “reaction” to
religion, and on the development of their faith and character and service as they have taken positions of leadership in
their churches and communities? ... Greater knowledge and concern prevents Davidson students from accepting the over-simple answers to complex religious
questions. This is consistent with the educational program of the college which encourages students to think for themselves and which
does not wish to be merely an indoctrination center. The college attempts to give the unusually able Davidson students the
opportunity to come to grips with the basic doctrines of Christianity while they are in touch with a committed faculty
of a Christian college.

Again struggled with the problem of the books missing from the college library. The Council decided that a more stringent
fine should be placed on those students who were asked to return certain books found in their possession and did
not do so. Spratt said he would check with the Dean of Faculty concerning the appointment of a student to
the faculty Curriculum Committee in an advisory capacity. Andy Little volunteered to serve on the committee if the position becomes
open.

Trustees (Continued From Page One)

Dr. Martin in recognition of his furtherance of the Army ROTC program at his institution during the period 15 May,
1958 to Dr. Martin provided a stimulus for the ever-increasing interest and respect shown this program on the Davidson College
Campus. Under his consummate leadership, Davidson College has not only rendered outstanding moral support, but also continued to provide modern
up-to-date facilities with which the ROTC Department has been able to better accomplish its mission.

Members of the faculty whose leaves-of-absence were approved for the coming year by the Trustees include Dr. W. G. Workman,
who will be away second semester next year; Dr. J. S. Purcell; Prof. Charles E. Lloyd; and Dr. J. W.
Reid, who will take his leaves during the next two summers to travel. New members of the faculty whom the
Trustees approved are Lunsford Richardson King, a graduate of Davidson, for mathematics; Samuel A. Dickson, Jr., a University of Alabama
graduate, for physics; Mrs. Cora Louise Nelson, now getting her doctorate from the University of North Carolina, for economics; Charles
Cornwall, a Davidson graduate, for English; and Peter Van Egmond, a Mississippi College graduate, for English. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

NEVIN'S SCHOOL Gift Fund Holds Out Hai Students Choose Nevin's For Y's Easter Gift Fund

BY BILL AITKEN

Nevin's Vocational School of Charlotte, polling 300 votes, was chosen by the student body as recipient of the Easter Gift
Fund over the Ministry to Migrant Workers with 106 votes and the Save the Children Foundation with 101. Jeff Wampler,
chairman of the Gift Fund, said in speaking of the project, “In the Gift Fund we have the opportunity to
make a tangible and positive contribution toward aiding these people. They are not just charity. We are enabling them to
receive training to live useful lives on their own.” Wampler noted also that the balloting indicated 50 percent of the
student body participated in the voting, which is unusual even in student body elections.

Nevin's is a trade school operating in the old Mecklenburg County school house on a yearly budget of $14,000 which
is provided wholly by service clubs. The school receives no church, state, or federal funds. Nevin's enrolls men between the
ages of 16 to 45 on a voluntary basis. These men with IQs from 20 to 80 participate in a
combined program including recreation, training in repetitive skills, and fundamentals of elementary education. The building in which the school is
housed provides inadequate space and is in need of repair. At present, a basketball goal and facilities for woodwork, pottery,
and painting are all housed in a small gym. Automobile engines are located outdoors because of the cramped conditions inside
the building. The Easter Gift Fund will completely build and equip a new workshop for the school. The goal of
$2,300 is the sum given by the school as adequate for this project. Soliciting begins Monday, Feb. 24, and continues
until Friday, March 13. In case of any question concerning the Fund, a list of the solicitors on each hall
will be posted in all dorms.

In Tennessee. After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Applewhite
Lester
Reid
Bondurant
MacCormac
Sailstad
Cole
McGill
Frey
Mansour
Thies
Gallent
Mebane
Thompson
Ghigo
Mrs. Moore
White, H. E.
Gift
Parker
Hampton
Pinkerton
Winkler
Johnson, N. M.
Purcell
Wruck

When Burl Rainwater (B.A., 1958) reported to Southern Bell in 1961, he coordinated the Bell System Census Project in Tennessee.
Working out his own guidelines for collecting data, Burl analyzed his results to forecast household growth during the Sixties for
each telephone exchange. Success on this assignment earned him a new one where he also had to pioneer. When told
to study the possible application of teaching machines to telephone training, he and another employee programmed an entire basic electricity
course to show what the new devices could do. The textbook the two men developed for the machines was later
copyrighted and published. With such achievements behind him, Burl is now carrying out other interesting assignments in the Knoxville Commercial
Office. Burl Rainwater, like many young men, is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are
few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: BURL RAINWATER

GO ALL THE WAY ‘CATS! go “RIGHT” with correct dress from 3RD FLOOR NATURAL SHOULDER are loaded with new summer
classics
@ SPORT COATS by HASPEL COLLEGE HALL MADISONAIRE H. FREEMAN
@ SUITS PALM BEACH HASPEL COLLEGE HALL MADISONAIRE H. FREEMAN
@ WEEJUNS ANTIQUE BROWN BLACK SCOTCH GRAIN (in two weeks)
@ GANT SHIRTS DRESS SHIRTS SHORT SLEEVES SPORT SHIRTS SHORT SLEEVES THANE
@ SWEATERS IN PULLOVER & CARDIGAN STYLES
126 S. TRYON ST. AND PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER USE YOUR CHARGE ACCOUNT
