Che Davidsonian

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A Momentous Decision

Mr. David Stitt
Editor
Davidsonian
Davidson, North Carolina

Dear David:

At the recent meeting of the Trustees the following motion was made and unanimously approved: "that the Editors of the
Davidsonian be requested to remove from the masthead of that paper the words, ‘the news and editorial voice of Davidson
College’ and that appropriate words in substitution thereof be worked out between the staff of the Davidsonian and the Administration
of the College."

We were, needless to say, highly flattered to learn that the Board of Trustees took time from their deliberations two
weeks ago to vote unanimously to have part of our masthead removed. “The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College”
has meant to us merely that this newspaper contains the “news” (which it does), “and editorial voice” (meaning “voice of
the editor,” obviously of the editor of this publication), “of Davidson College.” The trustees, however, apparently felt (unanimously) that the
masthead implied that we were purporting to speak officially for Davidson College’s faculty, administration, trustees, etc.

This week we're running without anything in the masthead, awaiting approval of our request for permission to use “The News
and Editorial Voice of the Davidson College Student Body.” The request assumes that students here will understand that we no
more claim to speak for the entire student body than we have ever claimed to speak for the entire college
community.

Sincerely,
D. Grier Martin

Headache Powder

This week we have seen evidenced an attitude we do not entirely understand. We’ve caught criticism from two sources (same
general direction) for broadcasting via a back-page headline the fact that another atheist was coming on campus this week. Concern
was expressed by both men over the “adverse publicity” the college has received because of the controversial speakers issue, and
we were chastised for having added to the “unnecessary headaches” of the administrators involved.

The “unnecessary headaches” no doubt consist of criticism of the calibre evidenced in force in the Charlotte newspapers immediately after
atheist Michael Scriven’s brief visit here. The headache we understand, but the consternation over publicizing the speakers we do not
understand. The administration of this college answers to no one except the Board of Trustees, and two weeks ago the
Board voted unanimously to back the administration's policy on inviting speakers here. With the only opinion that really matters officially
on record as favorable toward an open-platform policy, why the consternation over criticism from the outside?

Criticism is, to say the least, inevitable for any good academic institution in this section of the country. Again, inevitable,
and we cannot see incoherent, fanatical attacks by fundamentalists perturbing a college administration. Actually, we believe this type of criticism
to be a healthy sign that Davidson College is performing its mission as an academic institution. If the college were
not offending fundamentalist and other backward elements, Davidson would have absolutely no claim to the title of an institution of
higher learning.

“Unnecessary” headaches? If headaches are what it takes to establish an atmosphere conducive to genuine academic pursuit at Davidson, then
those headaches are necessary. Even if it means telling a lot of people to take a powder because this school
is committed to an open-platform policy on speakers.

DTS

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Stitt

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jeff Wampler

Charles Dibble
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth
Duncan Newcomer
Assignments Editor
John Todd
Feature Editor
Tom Loflin
Sports Editor
Rick Lowery
Associate Editor
Managing Editors
Assistant Editors
Assistant Sports Editor
Bob Strauser
News Editor
Jim Downey
Photography Editor
Joe McCutchen
Photographers
Cartoonists
Sam Smith
Romir Chatterjee
John Compton
Johnny Wright
Rufus Hallmark
Paul van den Berg
Assistant Bus. Manager
Charlie Smith
Advertising Manager
Irvine Welling
Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Contributors this week: Rufus Adair, Bill Norfleet, Britt Snider, Harry Carr, Ron Snow, David Coffey, Sid Farrar, Paul Simpson, Calvin
Zon, Ed McFarland, Bob Holladay, Buck Lawrimore, and Bill Briggs.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Anesthesia Machine In Laos, MEDICO Thanks Students

Dear Donors:

Not long ago I visited Lomphat, Cambodia, where I had the pleasure of helping to uncrate an anesthesia machine, complete
with the spare parts. The natives and doctors who work in this remote place were visibly impressed. Before this they
have had to use antiquated methods in anesthesia.

In order to get this machine to Lomphat, it was necessary first to bring it over the Pacific, up the
Saigon River to Saigon, then up the Mekong River to Phnom Penh. From Phnom Penh the crate was then put
on another small river steamer, sent to Kratie. From there again, it changed two more times before finally arriving in
this small village. This hospital is the only one in the radius of more than 100 miles and serves many
Laotians, Montagnards (hill tribe men from the mountains), and Cambodians.

I am sorry that you could not have been there to see the looks on the faces of the MEDICO
personnel and I am sorry that you also could not be there to realize the tremendous use this machine will
have. It was only through you, the generous donors from Davidson College, that these people will be able to realize
the more modern practice of medicine.

William S. Prowell
Director of CARE/MEDICO
Vietnam and Cambodia

Shafted By Compton

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Y Has No Official Role In Civil Rights Walk

Davidson

Dear Editor:

There has been some confusion about the relationship between the YMCA and the Charlotte March. At the last Cabinet meeting
this matter was discussed, and I was appointed to write a letter stating the official position of the Cabinet.

1. The “Y” is not sponsoring the March.
2. The “Y” recognizes the March as a legitimate means of expression. Several members are participating in this demonstration, and
several are not.
3. The choice — whether to march or not — is a personal matter and should be recognized as such
without any personal or collective recrimination.

STEVE DAVIDSON,
Vice President
YMCA

Campbell

Dear Editor:

The infringements on liberty and personal freedom in private affairs contained in the civil rights legislation which will come before
the Senate in the next few weeks are questioned and opposed by many intelligent people in both the North and
the South. The Davidson Civil Rights Committee, a very active and serious-minded group, is pushing this legislation by letters to
Washington, petitions, and proposed freedom marches. Many people feel obligated by their belief in civil rights to endorse the pending
legislation just because it is pro-civil rights, without considering the effect that the precedent set by this legislation could have
on the way of life (fading thought it may be) that we now enjoy. The power of the government to
meddle in our private affairs would be greatly extended by the bill as it now stands. Before giving evidence of
support of this legislation, one should investigate just what he is supporting. Civil rights may be a worthy cause, but
it does not follow that all methods used to bring it about are good or necessary. Just as opposition to
prohibition did not mean that one was a drunkard, opposition to this civil rights legislation does not mean that one
is a racist. Also, the fact that the bill may be compromised is not a just reason to support it
as it is now. It just may not be changed. We owe it to our future to look at both
sides of the question before we manifest our support of the bill.

DAN CAMPBELL

Ferris

Dear Editor:

This year four of our outstanding professors, Dr. Tilly, Dr. Tucker, Dr. MacCormac, and Prof. Gross, will be leaving Davidson.
It is possible that none of these men will return to teach at Davidson again. Their loss is upsetting because
it represents a continuation of a pattern among our professors which has been developing for a number of years. Each
year my class has been at Davidson a number of our younger professors have left the school. Some were forced
to leave because the school refused to renew its contract with them; others left by choice. Let us refresh our
memories with the names of a few of these men: Dr. Lord, Dr. Goodykoontz, Prof. Holland, Prof. Stroud, Dr. Tracas,
Dr. Bevan, Dr. Staples, Dr. Labanov, Mr. Horton, Prof. Miller, and Prof. Evans.(Although Mr. Horton and Dr. Staples were not
professors, the circumstances leading up to their departure were similar to those of the professors listed. Dr. Labanov's record as
a scholar in Russian history and his incredible knowledge of religion, music, literature, and languages made his loss a tragedy
in spite of his age.) Unfortunately, these men were among the finest professors in our eyes as students. We admired
them for their youth and for their probing, critical minds. It is inevitable that we had more in common with
these professors. They were closer to our generation and could understand the problems we face as students. Also, their vitality
made classroom discussions more interesting. Their excitement for courses was transmitted to students. It was inevitable that these men would
voice criticisms of our system of education. They were thinking individuals who wanted to see Davidson improve her educational system.
Unfortunately, many were allowed to leave because of such criticism. Davidson is developing a pattern of conformity among its professors
which raises a serious question. The question is whether we at Davidson wish to sacrifice the quality of our professors
in order to maintain our present systems of thought. By adopting such a policy, we endanger the quest for truth
which every good college seeks to instill in its students and professors. Conflict is the key to a good education.
Only by exposing our convictions in Mill's “Marketplace of Ideas” can we profess them with integrity. Such conflict can also
teach us to be more tolerant of those who hold different opinions with equal conviction. This letter is a plea
for tolerance in dealing with professors like those who are leaving now and have left in the past. We need
these men.

BILL FERRIS

AN URCHIN’S WAY

Tutor Program Underway With Local Negro Students

BY DUNCAN D. NEWCOMER

Nineteen Negro high school students from the town of Davidson sauntered and shuffled onto the college campus last Monday night.
Like us, they wanted to improve their education. Like us, they came in all sizes and styles. Like us, they
vary in talents. Out of the YMCA’s first tutorial program came a bundle of rich interpersonal relationships. Ask any tutor.
Out of one particular session, Jay Federman’s, came the following essay. Considering that most of these high school students are
still learning that “capacity” can mean more than “how many people a bus will hold,” this essay is even more
startling. Its author is Guy Connor, 15. His dad and brother work in our laundry. We print this from the
other side of the tracks to inspire him, and them, and us.

Griffith St.: The street I live on. Griffith Street, does this sound like any other street you've ever heard of?
Well, if it does, it’s a big mistake because it is a street of many wonders. It is a wide,
plain blacktop road, on which something is happening every minute of the day and most of the night. On each
and every side, there are homes which, though very small, hold a different story of its own. So it’s much
like a circus where many different things are going on at once and who knows what the next step on
the midway will bring.

My Best Friend

My best friend is a likeable, humorous character named Charles McCain. He’s not only my friend but the friend of
most of the boys in my community. He can always turn a seemingly hopeless situation into one with unlimited possibilities
with a timely joke or with one of his homemade, spur-of-the-moment “maxims.” He's funny, but he can be as serious
as the Sphinx or as intent as a Caesar wooing his Cleopatra.

Another essay—by an eighth grader, John Patterson—reflects a view of our town which he also calls his town.

Davidson

The most part of Davidson I like are the stores and the fire department. In the stores, you find what
you need, like fruits, candy, cookies, canned foods, and many other things. At the fire department, I like to look
at the fire trucks when they are at the Town Hall. Another place I like is the post office. I
like to go in and get the mail out of the box and get warm in the post office.

DCRC Fosters Equality For Charlotte Marchers

BY CALVIN ZON

Last October, a group of Davidson students, members of the faculty, and townspeople formed the Davidson Civil Rights Committee, whose
purpose, as stated in its constitution, is “to improve human relations and conditions in the Davidson community, and to eliminate
racial prejudice and discrimination here and elsewhere.” Our chairman, Mrs. Mary Johnson, a housewife and lifelong resident of Davidson, remarked
that the committee has provided the first opportunity in Davidson for meaningful communication between whites and Negroes. In the past,
many things were done for Negroes but never really with them. It is our hope that a patronizing, condescending relationship
is giving way to a spirit of cooperation and community.

Most of the work of DCRC is carried on by five committees, and each member generally serves on a committee.
Our Economic Opportunities Committee, chaired by Dr. E. F. Patterson, is attempting to find job openings for local Negroes. It
is initiating a comprehensive survey of opportunities connected with the college, and local businesses and factories. Our Integration at Davidson
Committee is headed by Paxton Wray. This committee is working closely with the Admissions Office in trying to enroll qualified
American Negroes. To this end, students have visited “Negro” high schools and have hosted prospective Negro students while on campus.
It is looking into problems of campus life faced by Negro students. Bill Ferris heads our Religious, Cultural, and Social
Committee, which is concerned with creating greater contact and communication within the community. It has sought to break down de
facto segregation in Davidson's eight churches which are divided largely according to race and class although there is no formal
policy of segregation. Last Sunday, a number of Davidson students went to “Negro” Sunday schools and then accompanied Negro students
to services at local “white” churches. Last December, the committee secured a promise from President D. Grier Martin that “no
punitive action will be taken against any employee of Davidson College because of his membership on, or association with, the
Committee. This would not exclude action which might be indicated because of other reasons, including failure to carry out duties
and responsibilities or violations of the regulations of the college, the town, the state, or the nation.” The committee learned
that many natural leaders of the Negro community such as ministers and teachers do not live in Davidson because of
inadequate housing and school facilities. There has been cooperation with the Mayor's Committee in working out the desegregation of public
facilities in town. Our Voter Education and Registration Committee, led by Mrs. William Morris, seeks to encourage Negroes to exercise
the right to vote. It is attempting to find the causes of widespread non-voting and to alleviate the problem by
providing the necessary education and information. Our Intercollegiate Communication Committee, headed by Tom Vinson, seeks to promote contact between Davidson
and “Negro” colleges. Its plans for the future include greater participation in Davidson cultural activities by Negro students, and weekend
exchanges through which Davidson students could live at a “Negro” college and Negro students could live at Davidson. It also
strives to encourage civil rights activities at other colleges. As a result of our recent letter-writing campaign for the civil
rights bill, over 40 letters were written by Davidson students and professors, and at least 40 were written by local
Negroes. The Committee is currently sponsoring the march to Charlotte on behalf of civil rights legislation. Many members of DCRC
are participating in the YMCA tutorial project. We do not claim to have found any foolproof answers to anything. For
all of us, this has been a learning experience. We think that our group affords us a unique opportunity to
learn about and contribute to the community in which we spend four years of our lives. The experience gained will
be useful in our home communities or wherever we decide to live. We invite the help and support of all
those interested.

by johnny hart

OUR SOCIETY IS FOUNDED ON PEACE AND FREEDOM
