DAVIDSONIAN ENDORSES GOLDWATER (See Page Two)

VOL. LIV

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1964

FOUR SEEK HANDBOOK POST (See Page Four)

NUMBER SEVEN

Massive Student Turnout Gives 28-Vote Victory To Goldwater

Senator Barry Goldwater carried THE DAVIDSONIAN’S mock election by 28 votes in a polling turnout Monday that surpassed in numbers even last month’s record high. His margin was four votes better than in the previous survey, which had 40 fewer voters. With 742 students participating, the results showed 381 (51.3 percent) for Goldwater and 353 (47.6 percent) for President Lyndon B. Johnson. Eight voters (1.1 percent) were undecided.

Five weeks ago, Goldwater won 51.0 percent of the votes, Johnson took 47.6 percent, and 1.4 percent were undecided among the 702 students voting. Goldwater's strength in both elections lay in the 11 Southern states — Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia. On Monday, 603 students from the South gave Goldwater a plurality of 57 votes over Johnson, but non-Southerners handed Johnson a 29-vote majority, the total leveling out to Goldwater's 28-vote victory.

Similarly, 559 Southern students last month gave Goldwater a margin of 36 votes, which was shaved down by non-Southern voters to a 24-vote lead. Goldwater's majority among Southern students a month ago was 6.4 percent of the Southern vote; it rose Monday to 9.5 percent.

In the earlier poll, the two crossover votes nearly canceled each other out. 54 Democrats crossed over to vote for Goldwater, and 51 Republicans broke party lines in favor of Johnson. The phenomenon also appeared in the more recent poll, in which Goldwater won 57 votes and Johnson won 61. Both polls also uncovered the fact that backlash (Democrat votes for Goldwater) and frontlash (Republican votes for Johnson) were both prominent in the South, whereas only frontlash was noticeable in the non-South. For example, 54 Southern Democrats went with Goldwater, 37 Southern Republicans with Johnson. 24 non-Southern voters expressed frontlash in their voting, and only three non-Southern Democrats voted for Goldwater in the recent poll. Roughly the same relationships prevailed in September's balloting.

The DAVIDSONIAN'S earlier poll showed that Davidson seniors and juniors favored Johnson. Sophomores and freshmen, however, showed a strong liking for Goldwater. Monday's showing was the same. Seniors gave Johnson a 19-vote advantage, with 151 of them voting. 165 juniors gave the incumbent 13 more votes than Goldwater. The sophomores, 184 strong, favored Goldwater by 32 votes, and 226 freshmen helped out Goldwater with 32 votes over Johnson.

POLL OCTOBER 26

Goldwater (378) Johnson (352)

DEM REP IND DEM REP IND

Ala. 1 12 2 2 1
Alas. 1
Ark. 2 2 2
Colo. 1
Conn. 1 4
D.C. 1 1 1
Fla. 5 2 7 3 7 5
Ga. 3 15 25 3 8
Ind. 1 2
Iowa 2
Kansas 1
Ky. 1 5 2 1
La. 1 1 2 1
Md. 2 1 5 4
Mass. 1 1 1
Mich. 1
Miss. 2
Mo. 1
Mont. 1
N.J. 2 3 1
N.Y. 4 7 1 4 2
N.C. 30 71 33 96 16 22
Ohio 2 1 1
Okla. 1 2 1
Penna. 8 3 5 1
S.C. 30 37 8 5 8
Tenn. 3 9 3 3 3 3
Tex. 
Va. 7 18 8 16 2 9
Wash. 1
W.Va. 1 4 2 6 1 1
Wisc. 1 5
Foreign 1 5

(Editor’s Note: Tabulation shows Presidential preference and party preference by states. Omitted are several Maverick votes—ballots indicating no state, no party preference, etc.)

"My name is I am a student at college/university. My class in American Government is conducting a study of the presidential and state elections in North Carolina.” These are the opening lines to a general election survey recently conducted by the North Carolina Center for Education in Politics, a Ford Foundation project channeled through UNC. On the Davidson level, Dr. W. P. Minter volunteered his Political Science 21 class for the leg work involved.

If the project sounds simple enough, the execution proved to be trying. While students found afternoons to be most convenient to visit their assigned voters (selected at random from voter registration in Huntersville and Cornelius), the voters themselves frequently did not choose to be home. The poll revealed numerous inaccuracies in the registration lists. Many had moved; some were no longer living; a few had not voted in an election within recent memory. To add to the student's problems, a good many people did not desire to be interviewed.

There were several interesting facts revealed by the survey. A preliminary analysis of the information recorded indicated that about half of the local voters had no knowledge of the Jonas-James congressional battle. Understandably, the national election drew the most heated response. Intelligent liberal and conservative viewpoints were in evidence.

ELECTION SWEEPSTAKES

Three Davidson students will profit momentarily from the elections this Tuesday. At the suggestion of Dr. Philip Secor, the school is planning an election Sweepstakes, with $25 going to the winner, $15 for second, and $10 for the third place finisher. At assembly on November 3, Sweepstakes forms will be distributed among all students. Dr. Secor, speaking that day, will explain the exact conduct of the contest.

There will be three major sections to complete:
1.) Predict the outcome of the Presidential race in electoral count by state.
2.) Predict the victors of the various senatorial elections this year, and the numerical distribution along party lines in the Senate.
3.) Predict the gubernatorial winners by state, and the numerical party distribution of U.S. state governors.

The Sweepstakes will continue until poll-closing time, 7:00 p.m., when all forms must be completed and placed in ballot boxes on campus.

Freshman Parents To Visit Campus

Freshman Parents Day will be held this year on Saturday, Nov. 7, under the direction of Dean of Students Richard C. Burts and the Freshman Council. A number of activities have been planned for the weekend. Parents Day can begin a day early for anyone arriving Friday. At 2 p.m., the freshman football team plays the Furman freshmen. Also, the first of two presentations of Coriolanus will be given at 8 p.m. Friday in Hodson Hall, Cunningham Fine Arts Center. A second performance will be given Saturday night at the same time.

Parents Day officially begins with registration of parents in the College Union Saturday morning. Guided tours of the campus and limited class visitation will take place from 9 a.m. until noon, with the dormitories open from mid-morning to late afternoon. A luncheon will be held in Chambers Old Dining Hall for parents, students, and faculty advisers. At the assembly at 2 p.m., President Grier Martin and Dean Burts will speak and the Chapel Choir will perform. A reception will be held afterwards for the parents to meet the faculty members.

In the September survey, Phi Beta Kappa Scholastic Society membership in the fraternity is the highest scholastic distinction attainable by undergraduates. The society, founded in 1776, is the oldest of the Greek letter fraternities. Gamma Chapter of North Carolina was founded in 1923. Students who have maintained an average of B-plus or better are generally eligible for membership. No more than eight percent of the Junior Class and twelve and one-half percent of the Senior Class may be elected. These men will be initiated on Friday, Dec. 4.

Allen B. Callender, a physics major and president of Phi Eta Sigma, honorary freshman scholastic fraternity, and a member of the Radio Club, is a Dana Scholar from Jacksonville, Fla. Rufus E. Hallmark, Jr., a music major from Fort Bragg, is a McConnell Scholar, a DAVIDSONIAN cartoonist, and a member of Lingle Manor, Le Cercle Francais, and the Male Chorus. Ronald C. Reese, a McConnell and a Staley Scholar, is a member of Phi Eta Sigma and of the Honor Court. A psychology major from Orlando, Fla., Reese is captain of the cross-country team and a member of Alpha Tau Omega. Paul B. Reichardt, a chemistry major from Kirkwood, Mo., is a Dana Scholar and a member of Eumenean Literary Society, Phi Eta Sigma, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemistry fraternity. Paul A. Stotts, from Dallas.the minority, most decisions being based on emotions, prejudices, or custom. “My people have always voted Democratic and I'm not going to change now: I'm voting for Goldwater,” replied one obviously sheltered local resident. Another noted, “Nothing can save this country except the second coming of Jesus Christ,” and unfortunately that name was missing from the questionnaire. One eligible voter from among those questioned objected to Representative Miller's Catholicism. Several found Humphrey to be “too radical.” Perhaps surprisingly considering the target population, many voters were concerned with nuclear responsibility. Dr. Minter noted of the poll results, “We have about 10 per cent (104) of the registered voters in Cornelius and about 15 per cent (144) of those registered in Huntersville: if we have a truly random sample, our results should be accurate with this kind of participation (considerably higher than the widely syndicated national polls).” As noted above, the greatest surprises came at question 32 of the 73-question form. “Do you happen to know for sure if there is a race for Congressman (member of the U.S. House of Representatives) in this district this year?” The response to this query drew a complete blank from about half of those surveyed. What will be the deciding factor from this multitude come next Tuesday? Party tags, familiarity of a name, or flip of a coin—but there was no knowledge of records or political beliefs. In fact, one of the few “intelligent” remarks made about this campaign came from a gentleman in Huntersville. “I know Dr. James’ brother and don't like him, so I'm voting for Jonas.” A Jonas supporter, on the other hand, granted that he knew nothing about issues... Reichardt is president of Sigma. Johnson edged Goldwater by 17 votes in North Carolina. This week's poll showed an increase of 17 students in the North Carolina representation, and the total vote was tied: Goldwater 134, Johnson 134. Johnson also received 134 North Carolina votes in the last election. Thus, the heavier turnout of North Carolina voters was entirely to Goldwater's advantage. Goldwater entrenched his Honorary Initiates. In December, Phi Beta Kappa national honorary scholastic fraternity elected five seniors last Friday to membership in Tex. He is a member of Phi Eta, Sigma, Eumanean Literary Society, and the Business and Economics Club. Stotis, an economics major, is treasurer of Phi Delta Theta. strong position in South Carolina, where he earlier won nearly votes garnered by Johnson. The vote was Goldwater 53, Johnson 21, as compared to the earlier decision of 51-21. No major shifts in party allegiance were apparent in South Carolina. The largest single representation—33 students out of 75 voting—was that of the Goldwater Republicans.

Georgia, which had a tie vote (34-34) in the poll of a month ago, broke the tie by one vote in favor of Johnson. Three more students from Georgia voted, and the vote was 36-35. Like South Carolinians, Georgia voters did not switch their party allegiances in the four weeks between the two polls. Virginia repeated its former verdict. The vote was 33 for Goldwater and 27 for Johnson, as compared to the previous 29-25 showing. Florida, which earlier voted 34-21 for Goldwater, stuck to its guns, though Johnson gained a few votes. Monday's balloting showed 35 for Goldwater and 25 for his opponent. Among those polled, about an equal number of Johnson and Goldwater supporters indicated that they were registered voters. 84 of these were for Goldwater; 93 were for Johnson.

Kappa Elects Five Honor-Roll Seniors

compared with the first six weeks of school last year. The problem of traffic control has been, besides an additional load on “Cop” Linker’s business, a burden to many students who find themselves getting parking tickets for parking their cars in restricted zones when no other parking spaces are available. Last week, in a letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Halcott Foss brought the problem of inadequate, inconveniently located parking spaces to the attention of the student body and faculty. According to Foss, the root of the parking problem is that students living in Belk, Richardson, and Little dormitories are often compelled to park as far away from their rooms as the fraternity court or the parking places behind the gymnasium. The most probable reason for the lack of convenient parking areas is an increased use of automobiles by Davidson students. Many students are now using their cars to “drive to meals at the fraternity houses, drive to labs, and drive to the post office,” said Foss. “The hours between 11 and 11 are the most difficult ones for parking.” Foss has offered three solutions to the parking problem: First, restrict the number of cars allowed to students on campus by restricting sophomores from having cars or by allowing only those students with a certain academic grade average to have cars at school; Second, to build another parking lot, preferably near Richardson and Little Dormitories; and third, to request that students using their cars only on the weekends or on vacations park in the lot behind the gym. “The objections which may be offered to the first two solutions by the administration were that Davidson, being isolated, has a need for cars to give students the opportunity to get off campus during the weekends; thus, a reduction in the number of cars is undesirable. Secondly, the expense of building another parking lot is prohibitive, and a parking lot is certainly not beautiful,” Foss said. The parking problem is one which Foss felt could be easily solved if the administration were aware that driving habits of many students are changing toward more intra-campus trips and if there was an effort to make responsible people on campus aware of the parking space deficiency.

Council Takes Action On Parking Problem

By RON SNOW
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The parking problem on campus was one of the major issues discussed by the Student Council in its Monday night meeting. President Will Jackson read a letter from Halcott Foss which cited two possible solutions to the problem and then appointed Charlie Marshall chairman of a committee which will study the problem, seek solutions, and return a report on Nov. 16. In the letter read by Jackson last week, Foss arrived at the conclusion that “some action be taken either to increase the number of useful parking places or restrict the number of cars using the present ones.” Jackson voiced the possibility of converting the space east of Richardson Dorm into an additional parking lot. Marshall’s committee will examine these and other solutions and possibly poll the student body for suggestions. Jackson announced that the upcoming Wildcat Handbook editor elections would take place Tuesday after chapel. The four persons entered in the race for this position are Danny Boone, Britt Snider, Rocky Walker, and Allen Webb.

The council then continued its discussion of the drinking rule, and possible solutions to the unrealistic situation which exists at present. The discussion along with the results of a recent poll of students concerning drinking and liquor on campus was closed to the press, but Jackson released this statement, “The Student Council discussed the alcohol problem on campus and considered possible solutions to the problem. It will continue its work in this area.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN apologizes to its readers for the late time of publication and consequent late delivery this year; however, due to personnel changes at the printing company and other problems induced in part by an increase to six pages, the delays have been unavoidable. The Davidson Printing Company is making a sincere effort with THE DAVIDSONIAN staff to remedy the present situation.

but Jonas will answer a letter if you write to him.” Most of the support for Dan Moore in the gubernatorial race also showed no knowledge of issues. “He sounds like a nice man;” “I usually vote for a Democrat.” Several could not name the Republican candidate. For those who participated, the poll was both interesting and frustrating. Personal interviews were carried on in grocery stores, before blaring televisions, with obviously disinterested people who had scant knowledge of anything but nameless fears, prejudices, and general images. Some respondents were rude; some refused to participate (generally noting an invasion of privacy). There were few who understood all questions and few who carefully considered their replies. Lest there be any doubt about the matter, the election won’t be decided until next Tuesday.