VOL. LI Ch ye Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1964 THREE TEAMS POST BIG WINS (See Page Two) NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

Dibble Wins Davidsonian Editorship; Healing: “A Ministry, Not A Business” Oral Roberts’ Charlotte Crusade finds a charismatic pose

Oral Roberts, Faith Healer, Holds Rewarding Crusade

“Son, I’m going to heal you and you are going to take the message of my healing power to your generation.” According to evangelist Oral Roberts, these were the words of God spoken in a “clear, audible voice” to him as he lay near death at the age of 17. The tubercular, stammering boy was miraculously cured of his malady and immediately launched his career, witnessing to the healing power of faith.

Last week Roberts was in Charlotte conducting one of his 12 annual crusades in behalf of the Oral Roberts Evangelistic Association, a non-profit organization with headquarters in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Nearly four thousand people filled the Merchandise Mart on the opening night of the crusade; no figures have been released as yet on total attendance or total receipts. Roberts insists that “This is a ministry—not a business,” but whatever his terminology the results are rewarding. In Tulsa he has three office buildings, the central headquarters being housed in the seven-story, Vermont marble (“white—for purity”) Abundant Life Building, topped by a gold spire. The contract for building the impressive center went to one of Roberts’ brothers.

From his paneled office, where he sits in a $345 molded plywood chair beneath a glowing painting of Christ, Roberts directs a multi-million dollar operation. His 300-man staff distributes 57 million pieces of literature a year in 187 languages and receives in return some 40,000 letters each week; about 12 crusades a year are planned; and over $20,000 weekly is poured into mass communications media. Among the offices in the headquarters is one called the “secret place.” Here, volunteers maintain 24-hour contact with God through prayer (“For prayers at any hour, call LUther 3-2191, Tulsa.”)

Roberts finances his operations through book sales, collection barrels and his “blessing pact.” The latter innovation was originated on an early crusade in Kansas and has proven highly lucrative. By the terms of the pact, an individual pledged to contribute a certain amount monthly to the crusade on the stipulation that his contribution would be returned to him through some unexpected windfall. A few requested refunds and their contributions were returned. Today, Roberts no longer includes the stipulation in his appeal.

Once a shy boy who hid on the back porch when visitors came, Oral Roberts is today a confident, reasonably polished salesman. He hypnotizes his audience with his dynamic platitudes and convincing air of certitude. Not infrequently, he will nervously twist his chin up angularly, as though his collar seems too tight. Roberts paces a bit on the stage and occasionally seems highly conscious of the microphone before him. His favorite expression appears to be, “God is a good God,” and he once noted proudly that “I coined that phrase.” Audience response is initiated through directed questions, such as “Do you love the Lord tonight?” and “Everyone who went to Sunday School this week say ‘Amen’.”

A member of the Pentecostal Holiness movement, the evangelist believes in personal spiritual experiences, divine healing of body ills and baptism by the Holy Spirit, accompanied by the gift of tongues. Easily the most controversial point of his ministry is his faith healing ceremonies. No confirmed miracles have been reported from the Charlotte crusade as yet, but there are other reports to occupy the editorial staff in Tulsa. In 1946 Deacon Lawson, a worker in the crusade, dropped a motor on his foot. Roberts lunged at his mangled shoe, touched it and exclaimed, “Jesus Heal!” When the shoe was removed, the foot was found to be uninjured. Many since have claimed that they were healed of everything from terminal cancer to diabetes. There are, however, the tragic stories as well. One woman in Michigan, it is reported, was proclaimed by the evangelist to be cured of diabetes and she threw away her insulin on a show of faith. The next night she was found dead in her home. Despite such stories, many cling to the evangelist in near frantic faith. One family at the Charlotte meetings had followed him for months but has as yet received no attention. Their faith is not shaken.

Generally Roberts declines to discuss his theology. To at least one who questioned him he has said, “If a man wants to hear what I've got to say, let him come and hear me preach. If he wants to expound his own views let him get his own crowd.” He goes further in maintaining the screen of silence by instructing his ushers not to talk with anyone who acts as though he might be from the press. In February of 1956 he abruptly called off his Australian tour because of his poor treatment in the press. Back home, he spoke of the tour as a glowing success. No one knows the extent of Oral Roberts’ personal wealth. He travels in his personal Aero-Commander but does not live extravagantly. Once, when a follower noted that his entourage could travel more cheaply, Roberts replied, “Friend—you can't put a price on love.”

Refugee Manrara To Speak On Cuba

The president and executive director of the Truth About Cuba Committee will speak in the Union Lounge on Tuesday, April 7 at 7:15 p.m. Luis V. Manrara, who had been a senior partner in one of Cuba’s leading public accounting firms, fled Cuba in August, 1960. Since his arrival in the United States, he has devoted himself full-time to the fight against Castro's Cuba.

BY TOM LOFLIN

“Old” Bill Ferris stood before 55 interested people in the Morrison Room of the Union during the voluntary chapel period yesterday and announced plans for organizing an informal humanist club on the Davidson campus. At the last minute, Ferris changed his plans and no officers were elected, nor was an official statement of purpose for the club put forward. After the meeting, Ferris said that he and the four other students who were the nucleus of the club had decided not to unite in an official sense. “We won't have any officers or anything like that.” Ferris added. “What we want to be is just a group of concerned students who want to investigate humanism and have humanist speakers come to the campus.” So far, all the club consists of is an informal planning committee made up of Ferris, William Walker, Will Norman, Wayne Rhodes, and John Martens. They will be the ones to decide

Charles Dibble gained THE DAVIDSONIAN editorship with more than a three to one majority, 354 to 116 over Charles Ramberg in yesterday's heaviest voting. 484 students voted out of the 920 possessing elections cards. The new Scripts ‘n Pranks editor Pete Crow took 221 votes to Duncan Newcomer's 205. Lanier Burns captured the YMCA presidency with 298 votes, over twice as many as Bill Rule's 145. For Quips and Cranks editor, Zach Long, 60 votes, and Malcolm McIver, 52 votes, will meet in a runoff today. Cary Eaton ran third in the yearbook race with 41 votes. Voting for the editor of the yearbook is limited to rising Seniors. Steve Bunch, 148 votes, and Zach Long, 116 votes, contenders for the Union president title, will also be in today's runoff. In voting yesterday, Wic Cooney polled 79 votes while Boyd Scott and Wirt Neale captured 57 and 55 votes respectively. YMCA vice presidential candidates, Eric Nichols, 180 votes, and Ken Childs, 174 votes, will engage in the runoffs. Other contender Murray Smith drew 86 votes. With 216 votes, Mac Otts took the Y treasury position from Bill Whitehead with 177 votes. Barry St. Clair won out over Tom Puckett for secretary of Y by 275 to 154 votes.Whom the humanist or- Sponsored by the Conservative Club, he will be accompanied by a number of Cubans who were on campus during the visit of the Peace Marchers. An honor graduate of the University of Havana, Manrara had lectured in the United States and Cuba on accounting subjects prior to his flight.

Russian Embassy Official Will Speak Here April 6

Anatoli Myshkob, First Secretary of the Russian Embassy in Washington, will speak here April 6 under the sponsorship of the Student Council. The Russian delegate is a native of Russia and received his formal education in Moscow. While on his second tour of the United States, he is speaking to colleges and universities throughout the nation. In chapel Monday following spring break, Myshkob will speak on “Aspects of Soviet and American Relationships.” A coffee hour will follow in the Union. Either late in the afternoon or evening, he has agreed to answer questions concerning Communism and Russian foreign policy. Since Myshkob is a member of the Communist Party, he will not be able to speak at any state-supported schools in North Carolina due to the so-called “gag law” passed last year in the state legislature.

John Barrow, 77 votes, and Don Davidson, 43 votes, will run again for Freshman Advisor. Charlie Marshall, 22 votes, and Jim Overton, 15 votes, are out of the running. New editor Dibble is currently managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. From Sumter, S.C., he is president of the Conservative Club and past president of Philanthropic Literary Society. Last summer, Dibble won a Wall Street Journal scholarship. Successful in his bid for Scripts ‘n Pranks editor, Crow is now circulation manager of the magazine. An economics major, he is rush chairman and IFC representative of Sigma Nu. Y President Burns currently serves as a Cabinet member of the association. From Knoxville, Tenn., he is majoring in history. Pledge trainer of Sigma Chi, he is a member of Philanthropic Literary Society.

Casting 157 votes, the Class of 1965 participated most heavily in yesterday's elections. Sophomores and freshmen cast 135 and 109 votes, respectively. Seniors trailed with only 83 voters. Only seniors will vote in today's election for Freshman Advisor. Barrow, a Phi Delt, is a member of the Student Council. From Winston-Salem, he runs cross country and track. A member of Kappa Sigma, Davidson is from Salem, Ohio. He has been a starter on the baseball team for the past two years.

Fine Arts Festival to Begin April 7

Several art presentations are scheduled for the next few weeks as Davidson moves into its 17th annual Fine Arts Festival. The program this year, under the sponsorship of the college Fine Arts department, includes the following events: On April 7, 10:20 a.m., Chambers Auditorium, the annual Vereen Bell award for creative writing; at 8:15 p.m., Hodson Hall, Chamber Music Concert. April 13, 12 noon and 3:00 p.m., April 14, 8:15 p.m., Fine Arts Center, Gordon Mahy, artist, Davidson 1954 graduate, 1963 winner North Carolina Annual Artists Exhibition—North Carolina Museum of Art. April 19, 4:00 p.m., Davidson College Presbyterian Church, Michael Arrowood, organist. April 23, 8:15 p.m., Hodson Hall, the Davidson College Wind Ensemble, annual Alumni Concert with Ben L. Watkins, Davidson 1948 graduate, percussionist. April 26, 4:00 p.m., the College Church, Student Organ Recital. April 28, 8:15 p.m., Chambers (Continued On Page Two)

CHARLIE DIBBLE A Conservative Wins

WILL JACKSON Wins Council Presidency

ETHICS WITHOUT RELIGION

Organization will invite to the tee had decided not to immediately form an official club because of the feeling among certain individuals of the faculty, administration, and student body that a reaction against controversial speakers might be put into motion by the trustees. Ferris announced at the meeting that anyone who wished to join the committee would be welcome. The 55 who attended the first meeting came in answer to an invitation handed out on small slips of paper after chapel Tuesday. The first sentence read, “All atheists, agnostics, and doubting Christians are cordially invited to the first meeting of the Young Humanists’ Club.” Evidently, some of the people there were merely satisfying their curiosity. Will Terry, chaplain of the college, and Dr. John Kelton were in attendance. At the meeting Ferris stated, “Our purpose is to present a positive alternative to Christianity on which to base our lives.” He added that the group hoped to invite between three and five speakers after the spring break who could teach Davidson students more about humanism. He said that they would probably speak during voluntary chapel periods on Wednesdays or Fridays. In answer to a question from Student Body President John Spratt, Ferris said, “If later enough students want to form a club and draw up statements of purpose, then we will.” Spratt indicated after the meeting that he felt the club should organize formally and get a charter from the Student Council. However, after talking with Chaplain Will Terry and various students, Spratt agreed that it be best for the group to remain informal.

Joe Howell and others seem to feel that a formal club might offend the Trustees at this time,” commented Ferris. Howell, YMCA president, said, “I have a certain sympathy for the ideals of the club, but I fear that its organization at this time might do harm to the policy of allowing controversial speakers to come to campus. I know President (D.G.) Martin has been under a lot of pressure for allowing the two atheists to speak here, and I am afraid this will give critics fresh ammunition.” Howell said that he had worked closely with Martin in arranging for the speakers to come to the campus and that he was in a good spot to judge the effect that the organization of a humanist club might have on the trustees. At their last meeting, the trustees gave Martin a unanimous vote of confidence in his handling of controversial speakers. The president himself was out of town yesterday and could not be reached for comment about the new club.

Ferris’ definition of humanism is a theory that “does not accept a belief in God. Rather it feels that man should focus all attention on this world and concern himself with simply his own preservation.” Ferris said that any student could “join” the informal organization. “All that is required is an honest and open mind.”

Summer Session Starts On June 10

Catalogs for the Davidson College 1964 Summer Session have been printed and are available from the Registrar's Office. Registration for the three terms is to take place on June 10, July 6, and July 29. Examinations for the third term will be held on Saturday, Aug. 15. Registrar F.W. Hengeveld has estimated that the enrollment for the first term will be between 250 and 300 students, with unpredictable drops in the enrollment of the two succeeding terms. The major change in the 1964 summer session is an arrangement whereby all classes, both science and non-science, begin and end on the same day. In the past, science courses have begun a few days before the non-science courses. A five-dollar increase in expenses for the first two terms has been made since last year. The North Carolina In-Service Teacher Program makes it possible for any North Carolina public school teacher under contract for the next academic year to attend Davidson on a tuition-free basis.

Will Jackson Seats Down Boston Bid

Crow New S’nP Editor; Long, McIver In Runoff

Close Vote Resolves Presidency

Will Jackson won over Ed Boston by 292 to 245 votes in Monday’s runoff election to capture the Student Council presidency for 1964-65. At the same time, juniors gave Steve Ramsburgh and Steve Davidson 105 and 100 votes to put them on next year's Honor Court. Merry Hardy polled 80 votes. Steve Humphrey, 105 votes, and Lloyd Davidson, 78 votes, were the choices of the freshmen for Honor Court. Alva Whitehead was third in the race with 69 votes. President-elect Jackson will move up in the Student Council from his present position as second vice president. A member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, the psychology major comes from Decatur, Ga. He has been president of the sophomore class and a football team member. Of the 541 vote total in the presidential runoff, juniors cast 156 votes, followed by 146 from the sophomores. Freshmen cast 137 and the seniors 98. Four votes were invalid. Walt McDonald, elections chairman, voiced his pleasure with the efficiency and success of this year's election procedures. “The smoothness,” he noted, “is due to the new system devised by Fred Sackett and not to the elections committee.”

Ferris Forms Humanist Club

Ferris emphasized that the decision to form the new club did not come from the influence of two atheistic speakers that have been here this semester. “Plans for a series of humanistic speakers have been under consideration for three or four months. Howard Olive of Charlotte will be our first speaker and will appear within a week or two after the spring vacation,” Ferris said. He confided that he and the others on the planning committee had decided not to immediately form an official club because of the feeling among certain individuals of the faculty, administration, and student body that a reaction against controversial speakers might be put into motion by the trustees.