PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1964

Open House After Vespers

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Houchens
Marrotte
Barber
Hunt
Minter
Bryan
Jackson
Pierce
Campbell
Johnston
Plott
Miss Cumming
McGeachy
Rhodes
Hight
Maloney
Schenck

Niebuhr Expert Here For Vespers, Chapel

Dr. Gordon Harland, professor of American Church History at New Jersey's Drew University, will be this Sunday's Vesper speaker. Harland, a native of Canada, is author of the book, The Thought of Reinhold Niebuhr. A discussion will be held in the Student Lounge of the College Church after the Vespers service. Harland will also speak in chapel on Monday, March 9, when his topic will be, "The Influence of Reinhold Niebuhr in American Life."

(Photo by Chatterjee)

DR. SAM MALONEY
Fitted out for survival...

CD Shelters Managers Begin Survival Training

Classes began this week in the college’s Dana Science Building for the first Civil Defense Shelter Managers Course of the town of Davidson. It has the largest enrollment for any such class ever held in Mecklenburg County.

“I imagine some 60 people will be taking the course,” said Dr. Samuel D. Maloney, Davidson's Deputy Director of Civil Defense and chairman of the Davidson College Fallout Protection Committee. According to the Charlotte Civil Defense Office, the largest group ever assembled in the county before now for the course has been 22.

The purpose of the 10-hour course is to provide “trained and responsible leadership for the successful operation of a shelter program.” Within seven of the campus buildings are 15 designated shelter areas, and Maloney says the program should have at least three managers for each shelter, as the national Civil Defense program advises.

The town of Davidson, including students, has a population of about 2,800, Maloney says. The shelters provide space for 3,000 or more.

“The shelters will be integrated, of course,” Maloney said. “There will probably be some natural divisions worked out among shelter assignments, such as coaches to the gym and chemistry teachers to Dana Science Building, but if someone wants segregated shelters he is free to go elsewhere.”

All supplies are in for all but two of the shelter areas, he noted. Provisions include food, water, medical and sanitation necessities, and radiation monitoring equipment all sufficient for a two-week full-capacity enclosure.

“Let me emphasize that these are not bomb shelters at all,” Maloney pointed out. “We aren't too worried about that since there are no primary target areas in North Carolina. But the shelters have been designated as adequate for fallout protection, which may be necessary in the event of nuclear attack, although we would be allowed more time to take cover than if there were a blast nearby.”

“I hope we can provide cards with information as to the proper shelter procedures for all involved when plans finalize,” the professor said. “We should have everything down pat by this coming fall.” He said the Fallout Preparedness Committee is “trying to proceed with deliberate but not panicky speed.”

Estimated capacity of shelters are as follows: Belk Dormitory, 93 in rifle range and 816 in ROTC Department; Johnston Gym, 62 in basement under pool and 728 in locker area; Chambers, a total of 301 in three basement areas and 326 on third floor; Dana, 161 in basement; Martin, 134 on ground floor; Library, 133 on ground floor and 64 in central basement; and the Church, 127 in two areas of basement. Little Dorm's basement will not be used.

FEATURES: 1:40 - 5:00 - 8:10
ELIA KAZAN'S
AMERICA, AMERICA
is the ‘best American film of the year!"
SNEAK PREVIEW
WARNER BROS.
NOW PLAYING
CENTER THEATRE
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
SPECIAL RATES — 75c

SHONEY’S
BIG BOY
home of the hamburger
DAVIDSON STUDENTS
SHOW YOUR ID CARD TO THE CASHIER AND RECEIVE YOUR 10% DISCOUNT!
500 E. MOREHEAD
3400 PLAZA

Harland is a graduate of the University of Manitoba and received his BD from the United College of Winnipeg, Canada. He earned his PhD at Drew University and has also studied at the University of Heidelberg in Germany. Harland has taught at United College and Drew University. In 1954, he was a delegate from the United Church of Canada to the Second Assembly of the World Council of Churches at Evanston, IL.

Davidson Alumnus to Speak Tuesday

Alvin P. Perkinson, Davidson class of 1957, will speak in assembly Tuesday, March 10, on active political participation, thus becoming the second speaker this semester urging such student involvement in the political arena. He is expected to touch particularly on whether Davidson does or should contribute to an active political atmosphere.

A real estate developer in Charlotte, Perkinson is at the present time interested in entering politics, though he has not yet made up his mind as to what level. Although he is being sponsored by the Conservative Club, Perkinson is a moderate liberal who has yet to join the ranks of the Democrats or the Republicans. While at Davidson he was president of his Senior Class, president of the IFC, member of Omicron Delta Kappa honorary leadership fraternity and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Atheist Attacks Theism By Freudian Approach

BY TOM LOFLIN

Dr. Jose Barchilon, atheist, did not come to Davidson to swallow Christian hens, as did his predecessor Michael Scriven. He came to unevangelically state a psychological challenge to Christianity. Christian Davidson provided answers to Barchilon in the persons of its Psychology Dept. head, Dr. W. G. Workman, and Rabbi IsraelJ. Gerber. Only one question was really decided by the discussion of the three last night. It was the same question that Scriven and Dr. Earl MacCormac decided in their debate a month ago on the existence of God: there is no rational or scientific explanation that can be made to prove God's existence. Workman, like MacCormac, stated that the Christian belief in God comes partly from a revelation from the realm outside of man and his natural world, partly from man’s leap of faith. “Theistic Christianity talks about revelation from without,” Workman said. “To the Christian, ‘mystery’ is a meaningful word, where it is not to the Naturalist. There is a part of Christian faith that is uncertain. The Christian says that Supernaturalism may not be so, but I'll take my stand on it and order my life on it.” Barchilon, like Scriven, would not concede that man can receive revelation from without. “He (Workman) speaks of evidence and revelation from without,” Barchilon answered. “To me that is just an unknown. I don't know what he's talking about.” Gerber’s main argument as to the proof of the existence of a God was that God exists because man needs him to add a missing quality to his life. “Why do we need God?” he asked. “Because it is this which adds quality to life, it takes us out of meaninglessness.”

At the beginning of the discussion, Barchilon perhaps surprised some by saying, “I am a firm believer of the concept of God in religion. The concept of God has become more and more where I think it belongs: within man. Whether He exists outside of man, I don’t know, but I have found no evidence for it. Our fears are facts we should all accept and learn to live with,” he continued. “But some of us do not, and look to something outside ourselves to explain them and to relieve them. I would buy the idea that there is at least a psychological need for some to say there is a God. In early history the invention of God was an exceptionally clever thing. It's still so clever that I might wonder what I'm doing up here.”

Is there indeed a God? Davidson students should now know that His existence cannot be proven either rationally or scientifically: Christian thinkers here have acknowledged this fact. The problem of faith and revelation must be left up to the individual, for they are things that cannot be truly debated.

YMCA ‘Challenge’ Series To Throw Covers Off Sex

BY BRITT SNIDER

“Sex as a Challenge to the Christian Faith” will be the fifth topic for discussion in the YMCA's series of forums on contemporary challenges to the Christian religion. The featured speaker will be Dr. William Cole, president of Lake Forest College, Lake Forest, Ill., who will be joined in the forum by his wife Doris. Dr. and Mrs. Cole will arrive on campus on Thursday, March 12. Dr. Cole will address the student body during chapel period that morning after which a coffee hour will be held in the Morrison Room of the Union. Later, at 3 o'clock, an informal “bull session” is scheduled in the Morrison Room. The forum will conclude that evening with an address by Dr. Cole at 8:15 which will be followed by a short discussion.

Cole has served as president of Lake Forest College for the past four years. Prior to this, he was Professor of Religion and Dean of Freshmen at Williams College. He also has served as chaplain at Western Reserve University, Columbia University, and Smith College. He received his BD degree from Union Theological Seminary and his PhD from Columbia University. In addition, he is author of several books and articles, including Sex in Christianity and Psychoanalysis and Sex and Love in the Bible. He holds honorary degrees from Grinnell College and Colgate University, and is chairman of the Illinois Commission on Human Relations.

THERE’S A WIDE RANGE OF OPPORTUNITY IN THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

Admittedly, the work is demanding. It requires that unusual caliber of man who finds a greater satisfaction in challenge than in ready solution... who is eager to see his education yield dividends... who wants an immediate opportunity for leadership. Men with this kind of impatience will discover the stimulation, welcome and rewards they seek in the telephone business.

To outer space and into the deep sea, we take the sum total of our scientific and managerial knowledge. A case in point is Telstar, which represents the first step toward a worldwide communications system. Another example, the new deep-sea amplifier that simultaneously transmits two-way messages. Both communications triumphs stem from Bell System planning, research and development. Such trailblazing projects command the best of managerial and scientific talent. That's why you'll find, throughout the Bell System, men with college training as diverse as the responsibilities they shoulder. Their backgrounds run the gamut from liberal arts and business courses to science or specialized engineering majors.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

Spring “lights” changes have been made! Natural shoulder assurance with an air of Spring and Summer. Suits and Sport Coats are lighter and brighter... the coat is shorter and the lapel gives you a longer roll. Come in... Use your charge account when making your purchases...

HASPEL PALM BEACH COLLEGE HALL MADISONAIRE H. FREEMAN

Suits 45. to 85. Sports Coats 35. to 69.95

We have just received our largest selection ever in Gant Short Sleeve Shirts and Corbin Slacks. “Weejuns” Loafers are coming in Scotch Grain, Autumn Harvest Tan, Antique and Black.

From our 3rd floor Natural Shoulder Shop

FREE PARKING DOWNTOWN 126 S. TRYON ST. PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER