PAGE SIX

(Staff Photos by Thel)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

VICTIMS

By TED GLUSMAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Lately (for the past 30 years), a large number of Davidson students have been the victims of a strange disease. This unique malady, characterized by wild looks, loss of sleep, poor class preparation, and general delirium, is known as bridge.

Notice the bridge players pictured here: their intense concentration, followed by the careful, considered play of the wrong card. Note the lone example of joyous surprise, indicating absolutely nothing. Whatever play has caused this look will later be proved by the player’s partner to be irresponsible, incredibly feeble-minded, and not at all what he would have done. Any attempts to justify himself (“But you told me to do that!”) will only lead to further fury from the partner.

Bridge players may be distinguished from people by two main points: their total devotion to the game, and their firm conviction that they, individually, are the only ones who know how to play it. Experts may be distinguished by their ability to blame everything on their partners. The concentration on these players’ faces is not a result of their figuring which card to play but of figuring how to blame it on their partner after the hand. Furthermore, a close look at the players will... will you excuse me for a moment, please?

“Wait a minute; I thought I won that trick. You trumped it! That was my ace, you moron. Of all the stupid, ridiculous...”

MEETING HERE

Official In Education Will Address AAUP

Dr. William Archie, executive secretary of the North Carolina Board of Higher Education in Raleigh, will address this semester's open meeting of the Davidson chapter of the American Association of University Professors on Nov. 12. His address will deal with trends in higher education in the southeastern United States.

Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, chapter president, said that at its open meetings each year the chapter tries to bring to the faculty programs dealing with broader subjects of general professional interest to people.

FUTURE PROGRAMS

Later in the year, the AAUP chapter will hear speakers representing the Southeast and the nation as a whole in an effort to discover trends that are developing in American higher education.

Started in 1915, the AAUP has members representing 1,400 institutions. There are 728 local chapters in the United States. Davidson's chapter represents 55 to 60 percent of the faculty.

The AAUP has two main goals: to protect academic freedom and the tenure policy, and to set an economic standard for the profession. National dues are $10 per member; these help to support professors in court actions resulting from legitimate disputes with their schools. Some of the money goes for scholarships and research grants.

OFFICERS

In addition to Dr. Ostwalt, this year’s chapter officers are Dr. Locke White, Jr., vice president; Dr. J. D. Kelton, secretary-treasurer; and Drs. J. T. Drake and J. O. Embry, members-at-large of the executive committee.

The Davidson chapter functions for the benefit of the faculty. It has just completed a comparative study of teaching loads in 32 selected colleges and universities. Similar studies are carried on by sister institutions. The chapter has helped to bring about good contract and tenure policies and a program of salary increases at Davidson. It has also functioned successfully as a committee of arbitration when it has been called into a dispute.

Matthews Minister To Speak Thursday

The Rev. Tom Cutting, pastor of Providence Presbyterian Church, Matthews, will speak in chapel Thursday.

Cutting, ‘59 attended Princeton Theological Seminary from which he graduated in 1963. Providence Presbyterian Church is his first pastorate. While at Davidson he was student body secretary-treasurer, first vice-president, and Freshman Advisor. He was also elected to Omicron Delta Kappa, named to Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities, and a member of Phi Eta Sigma. He was on the YMCA Cabinet and played halfback and quarterback on the varsity football team for two years. Cutting is a member of Phi Delta Theta.between faculty and administration. Dr. Kelton commented, “Some people view AAUP as a ‘union’ of the faculty working against the ‘management’ of administration. This is misleading because the goals of faculty and administration are usually similar. AAUP provides for an expression of the faculty point of view concerning the achievement of these goals. We have a very fine relationship of cooperation with the college administration.”

Dr. James A. Jones Will Speak Sunday

The Rev. James A. Jones, president of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, will speak at Vespers Sunday. Before assuming his present position, Jones served the First Presbyterian Church, Henderson, and was for 17 years minister at Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. He is currently chairman of the Presbyterian Board of World Missions. Jones was graduated from Davidson in 1931, received his BD from Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, and his ThM from the University of Edinburgh. Seven vespers remain in the semester, including the non-compulsory Christmas Vespers.

Parents Arrive For Weekend

Parents began arriving on campus this afternoon to begin activities for Freshman Parents Day which is being highlighted by football, a drama production, and meetings with the administration and faculty.

The Freshman Council in conjunction with Dean of Students Richard C. Burts made plans for the weekend.

The program began today as the Davidson freshmen met the Furman freshmen in a game at 2 this afternoon at Richardson Field. Registration will take place throughout tomorrow morning. Tonight and tomorrow night in Hodson Hall the Drama Department is presenting “Coriolanus” as part of the celebration of Shakespeare’s 400th anniversary. The presentation will begin at 8.

From 9 a.m. until noon tomorrow, freshman guides will conduct parents on tours of the campus. Limited class visitations will take place during this period with dormitories open for visitation from mid-morning until late afternoon. A buffet luncheon will be served from 11:45 until 1 p.m. for parents, students, and faculty advisors. Following this, parents will have the opportunity to meet their son’s faculty advisors. These meetings will be in the same rooms used for orientation group meetings.

The Freshman Council has chosen Ben Cannon to preside at the 2 p.m. assembly. After Chaplain Will Terry’s invocation, President D. Grier Martin and Freshman Advisor John Barrow will welcome the parents. Dean Burts will deliver the main address. Following the assembly, there will be a reception in the lobby of Chambers Building and in the banquet hall for parents to meet professors. A number of fraternities will hold open house for parents and pledges. The College Union Cafeteria will serve supper beginning at 6. Local ministers have been asked to present Parents Day sermons Sunday for those staying over for services.

(Adv.)

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

OLDSMOBILE
The Rocket Action Car!

FOR SALE — 1962 Healy Sprite. 23,000 miles. Good shape. Inquire at Cashion’s