Humphrey First For LBJ Running
BY CHARLES RAMBERG

“Lyndon Johnson is a snake in the weeds and will be forced to prove himself many times before November,” wrote
a seasoned observer of Georgia politics recently. Just how many rattles Southern voters can discern on the Democratic presidential candidate
will be one of many factors Johnson considers in August before he names his choice for running-mate.

At this writing, the Democrats have nearly as many contenders for second place on the Johnson ticket as the Republicans
have for the first spot. They include California Governor Pat Brown, Minnesota Senators Hubert Humphrey and Eugene McCarthy, Attorney General
Robert Kennedy, Peace Corps director Sargent Shriver, U.N. ambassador Adlai Stevenson, and New York City mayor Robert Wagner. I shall
consider only Humphrey, Stevenson, Shriver, and Kennedy.

Accenting interest in the race for the Democratic Vice Presidential nomination this year are a number of factors, not the
least of which is the president's health. In this election year, American voters will be more aware than ever that
a president's term can end suddenly. They will recall Johnson’s 1955 heart attack and probably favor a young running mate.

Johnson will choose his running mate in late August at Atlantic City, N.J., a month after the G.O.P. convention in
San Francisco. Undoubtedly the geographical base and political positions of the Republican challenger will play a large part in his
decision. So far, the major contenders for the Democrats’ second spot are from the party's liberal wing and (with the
exception of Brown) from Northern states.

Theodore H. White has characterized the ‘60 election as a Southern revolt. This year Nixon captured Virginia’s and Florida’s electoral
votes and improved on Eisenhower's inroads into Democratic pluralities in Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, and South Carolina. John Kennedy captured only
52.9 percent of the popular vote in the once Solid South. Most of the credit for that majority went to
Lyndon Johnson, who had captured all but 18% of the 267 votes eight of the ten Old South states brought
to the Democratic Convention.

Now Johnson must contend with an image that Southern voters find tarnished by his support of civil rights legislation, yet
he needs both their support and that of the liberally-oriented Northern urban electorate. Finally, Johnson may want to put a
Catholic on the ticket. Shriver and Kennedy both qualify.

R. Sargent Shriver, 48, has recently been the object of the most attention in the race for the second spot
on the Democratic ticket. The boomlet can be traced to Jan. 6, when Johnson stated that he regards Shriver as
“one of the most brilliant, most able, and most competent officials in the Government. I regard him as my real
confidant,” Johnson concluded.

As much of Shriver’s appeal can be traced to what he is as to what he has done. He took
over the fledgling Peace Corps in 1961 soon after resigning as head of the Chicago School Board. In his only
federal post, the Maryland native has been spectacularly successful. By January 1964, the Peace Corps had sent 8,000 volunteers to
46 foreign nations. What Shriver is would help the Democrats pull in many northern votes that might otherwise be lost.
He is a northerner, a liberal (he once headed a John Kennedy-appointed civil rights task force), a Catholic, and a
member of the Kennedy family by marriage. With Chicago-based Shriver on the ticket, Illinois would be safer for the Democrats,
who were able to capture only an 8,058 vote plurality there in 1960.

Many Democrats are not willing to take Shriver seriously, however, and see his boomlet as one of many Johnson trial
balloons. Opposition to Shriver centers mainly on the fact that he has never been tested in an election beyond the
primary.

Adlai Stevenson, 64, is another potential nominee. “I can't say this (the Vice Presidency) is a burning ambition with me,”
Stevenson told an AP reporter soon after the poll. He said he would take the nomination if Johnson offered it
to him, however, leaving him a lukewarm candidate for the job. Stevenson supporters must take into account this unenthusiastic attitude
as well as the age of the candidate, the fact that he has been twice vanquished while bearing the party’s
standard, and the unfavorable outgrowths of his otherwise prestigious career as U.N. envoy. He is known to support the admission
of the Red Chinese to the U.N. on the ground that there they could be held accountable for their acts.
Further, he has been whitewashed by Barry Goldwater, who says that Stevenson has “consistently urged a soft policy toward Communism,
both in Cuba and elsewhere in the world.”

Robert F. Kennedy, 38, rated second choice by the county chairmen, is no newcomer to politics. He managed his brother’s
presidential campaign in ‘60, which would give him double value as a Johnson running mate. Not only could he contribute
all his political acumen, but he could also draw on all the close ties he built up and has maintained
with political leaders, particularly in the vital North and East. Kennedy appeals to many voting blocs. He is both young
and a Catholic. His record as Attorney General should garner for the Democrats any Negro votes they missed in 1960.
And he has the magic of the Kennedy name, as well as the confidence of the president, who sent him
on a mission to Southeast Asia as his personal envoy.

One major debit can be cited against Robert Kennedy. He cannot be charged politically inept after masterminding the winning candidate’s
campaign in ‘60, and that black mark may be enough to blot out much of his worth as a Northeastern
balance to Southwesterner Johnson. Southern politicians freely predict that the name Robert Kennedy on the Democratic ticket in 1964 would
be enough to turn the South over to the Republicans. While these claims can be disputed, it seems a real
possibility that Johnson might sacrifice the South’s unloved “Bobby” to placate Dixie sensibilities. In Kennedy's place, he could easily substitute
Senator Hubert Horatio Humphrey, who has the same liberal-pleasing views but is not tainted by a record of intervention into
the way the South chooses to deal with its Negroes.

Minnesotan Humphrey, 52, has overcome an earlier reputation as a “far-out” liberal to become the favorite Vice Presidential nominee for
the Democratic county chairmen. He is still a liberal’s liberal, however, and in addition is a skilled politician. Finally, he
wants to be Vice President. In 1947 he was co-founder of the Americans for Democratic Action. A year later at
the Democratic Convention he invited his fellow party members to “get out of the shadow of states’ rights and walk
forthrightly in the bright sunshine of human rights.” This led to a walkout of several Southern delegations and formation of
the States’ Rights Party. His liberal voting record on civil rights, medical care, federal aid to education, and urban renewal
has endeared him to large masses of voters in the large Northern cities, the Negro voter, and organized labor. And
yet he is not the anathema to the South that Robert Kennedy is.

And Humphrey wants the second spot on the ticket. On Jan. 2 he said that to run for the Vice
Presidency would be a “singular honor.” Soon thereafter, U.S. News & World Report stated that Humphrey was running as hard
as he could for the nomination.

Many ifs remain to be determined. Who will be the G.O.P. choice to oppose Johnson? What will the public opinion
polls say about the Johnson image in the South and Northeast in August? Only when these and many other factors
are decided will Lyndon Johnson end the speculation and name his choice for running mate.Chicago city limits. Taken far more
seriously is Adlai E. Stevenson, 64, twice-defeated Democratic Presidential candidate currently serving as U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. He
was rated third in a December poll by the Associated Press of Democratic county chairmen of their choices for the
party's Vice President. He spoke of how it is, after all, a kind of dishonesty, or cheating, or at least
hiding to suppose that clear answers to the important questions of the day are knowable, whether these questions are posed
in aesthetic, theological, or political vocabularies. To represent beauty, God, or justice in terms which will be honest and at
the same time clearly representing the truth to all men is not possible in our necessarily doubting age, with strong
efforts. And Rockefeller rejects the dishonest mistake. Yet it is too hopeless simply to refuse to try to fill the
canvas or the Church of the White House! National questions, one learns his personality. To them, he says that Scranton
agrees with Dulles, feigns concern for the working- esty (or irrelevance) of the too simply representational, as well as the
failures to strike out with bold strong lines and shapes and stand anything except our taken or says he’s a
favorite son, vative or liberal, and he holds policies for fear of making a strong position and sticking leading a
united Pennsylvania various views generally attributed with it...," says Scranton. Concerning the Atlantic alliance, Scranton would strengthen to each of
both groups. However, Johnson is capable of standing for these different things without the rambling incoherence of Goldwater. For example,
Johnson probably considers himself a Southerner, and he has always defended the filibuster on the grounds that without it, a
“simple majority Southern Senate block, among them Richard Russell of Georgia, present leader of the fight against Civil Rights legislation.
And yet the first meaningful civil-rights bill since the Civil War was passed by the Senate when Johnson was majority
leader. Consistently he backed civil rights as Vice-President, and he has continued to do so as President. How can that
be? A possible explanation might be that the section of Texas Johnson lives in is not so much a part
of the South as it is of the West. There is not any considerable number of Negroes in Johnson’s part
of Texas, and thus he does not have the inbred Southern attitudes on race of Russell. A more plausible explanation
might be that during his several years in federal government (since 1937) Johnson's outlook has broadened considerably. Recently he said
the following concerning civil rights: “Unless we are willing to yield up our destiny of greatness among the civilizations of
history, Americans—white and Negro together—must be about the business of resolving the challenge which confronts us now. Until justice is
blind to color, until education is unaware of race, until opportunity is unconcerned with the color of men’s skins, emancipation
will be a proclamation but not a fact.” In conclusion, Johnson's record so far has been impressive! Preyer's mobilization efforts
can be impeded. Preyer is accused of having secret meetings with Sanford and of making “deals” with the “organization.” Also,
Moore says that he is afraid to face the race question and will not meet with Negro groups: that he
is a political novice: and that he is a “muddled” liberal. Preyer concentrates on more constructive proposals. He labels his
program as the “cycle of hope” and pushes it in his whirlwind type of campaigning. He absorbs and refuses to
answer most of the attacks of Moore because he believes that Lake will be his most likely opponent in the
run-off primary and he will need to appeal to former Moore supporters then and thus doesn't want to antagonize them
now. Lake's segregationist views and his right-wing positions are under attack much of the time. Lake accuses Preyer of failure
to take definite stands on issues and having many political debts to pay to those who back him. Moore’s weaknesses,
Lake points out, is that he is a “middle of the roader” with too many indecisive positions, and is like
Preyer in that they are impractical men.
