PAGE SIX

DESPITE COMMITTEE REPORT

Council Halts Action On Drinking Change

At its regular meeting Monday night, the Student Council decided to shelve, temporarily, the recommendation it received for clarification of the drinking rule. Tommy Heffner, chairman of a special committee which had been formed to consider insertion of the word “ordinarily” in Article 8, Section 2 of the Student Body Regulations, recommended that “ordinarily” not be inserted and that the word “possession” be defined. The council then accepted the first part of the report and postponed other action in light of other discussion and work on the drinking issue which is currently being conducted.

In other action, the council approved the charters of all campus clubs and organizations which came up for approval. The council also decided that the election for the editor of the Wildcat Handbook, originally scheduled for Oct. 20, will be held later in the year.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Grades For Six-Weeks Unofficial

The freshman six-week grade report this year will not constitute an official grading period as in the past. However, grade standings on work completed by tomorrow will be given to the freshmen by their professors entirely for the benefit of the students, according to Richard C. Burts, dean of students. Explaining the change, Burts said that in the past it was almost time for the mid-semester report by the time grades had been figured, compiled, and recorded by the registrar. It is felt that this new approach will be just as beneficial to the freshmen while relieving some of the work of the administration.

Another change brought about by the new plan involves the dropping of courses. This year freshmen are required to take only 14 hours, but many are taking more. Those students with 17 or 18 hours may drop a course within four days after the first official grade report (the mid-semester grade report due Saturday, Nov. 21) without penalty if they have the consent of their advisers. Burts said, however, that all freshmen will be responsible for at least 12 hours of academic work plus ROTC the first semester.

Bayne Wins Runoff For Cheerleader

In the runoff last week for Freshman cheerleader, Gresh Bayne from Norfolk, Va., won over M. L. Cannon. Head cheerleader Ken Essex said Bayne will begin “on the job” training with the varsity cheerleading squad. In addition to cheering at all of the home games, the freshman member will probably attend most of the out-of-town games. Other freshmen who received votes in the original tabulation included Joe Friebele, Charlie Gorham, Rich Lyon, Bob Howard, and Mike Norris.

HARRY GOLDEN Visited Yesterday

By DICK CANNING
Davidsonian Feature Writer

A large portion of liberal politics was served up to an appreciative student body Thursday as Jewish lightning struck Davidson in the person of Harry Golden. Golden paid a short but whirlwind visit to Davidson under the auspices of the Great Issues series and spent several hours here dispensing humor, Jewish philosophy, and liberal politics in large doses. A resident of Charlotte, Golden is the editor of Carolina Israelite, which specializes in commentary, humor, and just about anything Golden happens to be interested in at the moment. He is also the author of two best-selling books, Only In America and For 2¢ Plain, as well as a biography of Carl Sandburg. He is known by most liberals as America's foremost Jew, and by liberals and conservatives alike as America’s most controversial Jew. As a speaker for the Great Issues series, Golden spoke on what has been his favorite topic.

YRC Presidential Poll Shows Goldwater Holds Slight Edge

In a poll of the Student Body, the Young Republicans Club found that a greater percent of those polled support GOP candidate Barry Goldwater for President over Lyndon Johnson. For Goldwater, 43 percent cast their support. Johnson trailed on the Davidson campus with 39 percent of the students supporting him. Eighteen percent indicated they were undecided in their choice. From the results of the student poll conducted several weeks ago by THE DAVIDSONIAN in which Goldwater received 31 percent of the student vote, the Young Republicans decided that they could have a very active organization on campus. They have organized a chairman on each hall of the dorms, the grass roots level of dormitory life. Under the leadership of these hall chairmen, an effort has been made to contact all students to obtain their answer to four questions: “Do you support the candidacy of Barry Goldwater?”, “Are you willing to work for his election?”, “Are you eligible to vote?”, and “Are you undecided about whom to support?”

Campus Will Receive English Viol Consort

The Davidson College music department will present the English Consort of Viols in a program of chamber music next Tuesday night at 8:15 at Hodson Hall. There will be a small admission charge and reservations are limited. The English Consort of Viols had its origins in Liverpool, England, where Marco Pallis started his first consort following a series of concerts there by Arnold Dolmetsch and his family. Dolmetsch’s festival at Haslemere provided an opportunity for members of the group to take an auxiliary part and thus widen their experience. The first era of the consort’s history was ended in 1939 by the outbreak of the war. The English Consort was reconstituted when Pallis and Richard Nicholson settled in London in 1952. By that time the movement for the revival of “early” music and instruments had acquired much of its present momentum. The consort will play a program of music from the ages of Shakespeare and Milton. Composers represented will be Giovanne Coperario, Thomas Lupo, Richard Deering, William Byrd, Mathew Locke, John Ward, Orlando Gibbons, and others. The program is the second in a group of four music and drama presentations in recognition of the Shakespeare 400th Anniversary at Davidson College.

Writing Contests Promise Awards

Three nation-wide writing contests are now seeking entries from college students. This competition in the fields of poetry and fiction promises several financial awards. Poetry is wanted for the new 1964-65 Inter-Collegiate Poetry Congress Anthology. Selections will be based upon poetic merit, and cash prizes of 25, 15, and 10 dollars will be awarded to the three best entries. Submit poems to the Inter-Collegiate Poetry Congress, 528 Market Street, Lewisburg, Pa. no later than Nov. 23. All contributors shall be notified of the editor's decision. In another contest, six honor awards totaling $600 will be offered to college students for single poems. These are sponsored by Hallmark Cards, Inc. Another contest, the Dr. Edward A. Devins Award, offers a cash payment of $500 for a book-length manuscript which will be published and distributed by the University of Missouri Press. Information on submitting entries to either the Devins or the Hallmark contest may be obtained by sending a self-addressed stamped envelope to Contest Directors, Box 306, Kansas City, Mo. The closing date for submission of both entries is Feb. 1, 1965.

The purpose of the survey, as stated by Harry McMullan, secretary of the Young Republicans, was not “to refute the earlier poll of the student body by THE DAVIDSONIAN, but rather to find out who would be willing to work for Goldwater.” Also, the Young Republicans wished to find out who is undecided in his choice of candidate, and then perhaps convince him of the merits of the Republican platform and candidate. Of the students who would support Barry Goldwater, almost half indicated a willingness to work for his election. Of the total number of students polled, less than a third are eligible to vote. In accordance with the occasion, the YRC passed a resolution stating in part, “It is the belief of the Young Republicans of Davidson College that the death of the Honorable Herbert Clark Hoover has robbed this nation of one of its most principled Presidents and greatest humanitarians.” The Republicans resolved that the former President's “support and defense of individual liberty and concern for mankind is known throughout the world.” Edgar reminded the YRC that anyone interested in helping at the polls in Davidson on election day should see Dr. J. G.

Four Announce For Handbook Post

Four juniors have announced their candidacy for the editorship of the 1965 Wildcat Handbook. They are Danny Boone, Britt Snider, Rocky Walker, and Allen Webb. This year’s editor Roger David announced that for the first time the nominations were open to the student body, since there was only one person with experience who filed. “We're setting a bad precedent, I know,” said David, “but we had no other choice.” All candidates will have to be approved by the Publications Board, which has previously approved only candidates with experience on the Handbook. The deadline for submitting nominations to David is midnight Saturday. A statement by each candidate will be published in THE DAVIDSONIAN on Oct. 30, with the election during the first week in November. David also mentioned that freshmen do not vote in the Wildcat Handbook election.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS at THE GONDOLA RESTAURANTAT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI. Martin. In addition, security personnel are needed to serve at Ovens Auditorium at the same time when all local candidates will be gathered. The next meeting of the 45-member YRC will be Wednesday at 9 p.m. in the private dining room of the Union following the special program in Phi Hall.

Oath Has Long History (Continued from Page One)

...lege church during a meeting of the Trustees, with faculty, students, and friends of the college in attendance. Some opponents of the old oath were satisfied with the new vow. Dr. D. D. Rhodes said, “I think it is a simple and much more straightforward type of vow. I like the idea of having it administered during a special ceremony before those people who want to attend. I think the ceremony will be more meaningful than the old ceremony at graduation.” Others still disputed the measure, however. Dr. E. F. Patterson said, “Any kind of a vow required of professors at an institution of higher learning is inconsistent with teaching at this level... I believe that this new vow hurts worse than the old one simply because it includes more people.” 

U.S. Misconception

“Someone has to say someday to the Latin Americans what the United States is really like. America will be in ten years what the youth of today decides it to be.” Fred Ehlers, Richardson Scholar from Ecuador, made these statements in the organizational meeting of “Project of the Americas,” a young people’s organization to create a new American conscience. The group met to form the basis for its program this year at Davidson. T. A. Rogerson is the club's adviser. This club will try to coordinate with “The Voice of the Youth,” a similar organization in Ecuador, with the purpose of creating for the first time an intercultural exchange between the young people of Ecuador and the United States.

Ehlers: Latins Have...

Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

“NOT ONE DISSENT”

Martin expected the action to be approved for a second time at the May 1964 meeting of the trustees, and therefore to see it made part of the By-Laws. “When deciding on the proposal for changing the vow today, there was not one dissenting vote,” he said. But conclusions from a conference of about 12 faculty members with key trustees on the night before the trustees’ May meeting influenced the Trustees to send the issue back to its Education Committee. President of the Trustees Richards said, “The fact is that nobody was really satisfied with the new vow.” The chief dissatisfaction was with the public ceremony clause. “The impression that I got,” Martin said, “was that there would be much less objection to some other kind of commitment. They didn’t think any type of commissioning exercise is appropriate for teachers who have been teaching here for a good while.” Martin also told THE DAVIDSONIAN that the most popular alternative was put forward by Rev. Albert McClure, a trustee. He suggested that the dean of the faculty and the president make sure of a man’s commitment to the ideals of the college before his hiring. Such an idea is at the basis of the new proposal by the trustees.

LAST 4 DAYS

Next Tuesday is the Final Day!

RICHARD BURTON and PETER O'TOOLE in “BECKET” presented in 70mm technicolor daily at 2 & 8:30 CAROLINA THEATRE CHARLOTTE

Late as a journalist, the election and the candidates. He began with a comment on the Republican candidate, saying that he (Golden) had always predicted that “the first Jewish president would be an Episcopalian.” He continued, “Barry Goldwater says he can lead us out of Egypt. I think he could. The only trouble with that is, we ain't in Egypt!” The speaker then settled down to a more or less serious discussion of his topic, “What the Liberal Wants,” beginning with a short history of liberalism. He pointed out that during the New Deal of the Roosevelt era, liberals and conservatives switched sides. Prior to Roosevelt, liberals championed states’ rights, and conservatives favored a strong central government. At the same time, the liberal, before Roosevelt, was on the outside looking in at the conservative in power. During the Roosevelt era, however, the tables turned, as the liberals gained power. Now, however, the liberal is in power, and “you never saw such status quo boys as we liberals,” Golden admitted. “The liberal wants nothing,” he continued, “except to maintain the status quo.” He pointed out, however, that the status quo requires consistent updating. Some of today’s updaters are such things as federal aid to education, medical insurance, and implementation of civil rights legislation. Golden then described the main weapon the “far right” has against the liberal: fear of Communism. Yet, he stated, the “far right” defeats its own avowed purpose by opposing liberal policies: “The liberal stands between the Communist and his target: the proprietor.” Next, the amiable visitor explored his idea of the conservative view of federal aid, especially in the South. He explained that this conservative listens to Goldwater expound on the evils of federal aid, then goes downtown to pick up his subsidy check, his unemployment compensation, his social security disability check, and so on. “In fact,” continued Golden, “we in the South have been kind of a federal reserve for years!” Golden continued, digressing to talk about Sen. Strom Thurmond's “baptism” as a conservative Goldwaterite. “You know,” said Golden, “where they sprinkled him with Goldwater. There were thirty thousand people there. There would have been sixty, but the six-lane highway built by the wicked federal government ends two miles from the airport. From there you've got to go on a state's rights road built in 1897!” Finally, the assembly address returned to what the liberal wants, summarizing the position: “The liberal wants to expand the social legislation of the Roosevelt era which saved capitalism not only in America, but throughout the Western world.” Golden then adjourned to the Morrison room of the Union to answer questions posed by a large group of interested students. He expressed his views on a wide variety of topics, ranging from Walter Jenkins to the PTA. (In regard to the latter, Golden expressed his belief, heartily seconded by those in attendance, that it should “leave the teacher the hell alone.”) The amiable Semite overflowed from a chair almost as tall but not nearly as wide as he, puffed on a huge cigar, and, in short, was the Gentile picture of a jovial Jew. As his comments got lighter and funnier, his accent grew deeper, till he closed his stay at Davidson with a voice reeking of New York's lower east side and said, “Every time the Gentile gets unhappy, the Jew catches hell. When he's out of a job, and his children are sick, you can hear him mutter, ‘Them Je-e-ews.’ So every night, just remember that six million Jews are praying for your health and prosperity!”

TURN, TWISTING, REACHING, RUNNING, PUSHING, PULLING

You have 639 muscles in your body. You can exercise and develop them for life-long health and vitality. Or you can live lazily and grow fat or flabby. And possibly become a premature victim of diseases of the heart and blood vessels. There isn't a shadow of a doubt that physical well-being at all ages depends to a great extent on regular activity or exercise. But there's so little incentive to exercise now—what with push buttons and sedentary pastimes—that flabbiness begins in early childhood. Yet, more than half of our children do not get at least 15 minutes of planned, vigorous, body-building activity during each school day! Consequently, nearly one-third of them can't meet minimum standards for strength, agility, and flexibility. The development of physical fitness—for all boys and all girls—should begin early in life. What about the physical education program in your child’s school? Is it planned mainly for students interested in varsity sports? Or is it geared to the development of average boys and girls—those most in need of physical conditioning? The President's Council on Physical Fitness urges you to take as much interest in this phase of your child's development as you do in his academic development. Work with your school officials and community groups to establish a program that emphasizes vigorous activity daily. Bringing up youngsters with strong, agile bodies is essential to their future—and the future of our country. To help you evaluate the program in your school, the President's Council on Physical Fitness will send you a free booklet. The address is Washington 25, D.C.