FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1964

Rousing Chapel Reception || Coming In November

By BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Chambers Auditorium has served in times past as a podium for such notables as Ozo Burleson, Mendell Rivers, and Walter Judd. Monday morning Charles Mitchell, candidate for the office of Treasurer in North Carolina, joined the ranks of these notables. Mitchell's presence was divided between the “Great Issues" program and the Young Republicans, and the speaker launched into his defense of matters conservative.

“I come to you from the depths of my heart because I believe in a cause,” announced Mitchell. He went on to remark that he had not chosen “the easy route” and that he realized his subject matter might be controversial. Diving into the thick of the controversy, he began, “I love my God, my family, my country, and my Constitution. If this makes me a right-wing extremist, I am proud to bear the title.”

Mitchell spoke glowingly of candidate Goldwater and of his 1960 admonition for conservatives “to grow up.” At the Republican Convention in July, “Red-blooded Americans rose to the challenge; freedom-loving people gathered in San Francisco... .”

MOVED BY HIS SPEECH

At this point, several unidentified seniors rose to leave from the back of the auditorium. Unfortunately, THE DAVIDSONIAN was unable to determine which political cause they espoused. Undaunted by these defections, Mitchell continued. “The salvation of the republic, not an election, is at stake.” Senator Goldwater, he opined, speaks with “honesty that has never been seen on the national level in many a year. Of course,” granted the candid candidate, “this will hurt him in places.”

Such places that honesty might hurt, according to Mitchell, could be Texas (where Goldwater spoke against the placement of a local federal installation), Florida (where he criticized proposed old-age benefit programs), or Tennessee (where the Senator attacked certain aspects of TVA).

“NOT ON MY TEAM”

Mitchell expressed his pride in being a part of the conservative “team.” “Walter Reuther, the socialists, the Communist Party, and the liberals are not on my team and I’m proud,” Mitchell declared.

From these four national threats, the campus visitor moved closer to home — more specifically to Women’s College and a member of the history department at that institution. According to Mitchell, the professor had publicly lamented the existence of a Young Republican organization on the WC campus. By way of reply to the liberal academician, candidate Mitchell reached perhaps the high point of his address: “But I say that he has no right to say this on that campus because he is advocating the thing to which I am opposed.”

After this defense of freedom of thought, the speaker closed out the address with an attack on swastikas appearing on Southern California mail (he had seen them firsthand) and finally devoted a few words to a pernicious comic book attacking the GOP nominee. As “Great Issues” speaker, Mitchell retired to the Union for a brief coffee hour, and everyone left for the Hub to see if a copy of the comic book was available for local consumption.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BOOK OF THE SEMESTER

Y Picks ‘Room At The Top’

Alumnus Mitchell Receives || Author John Braine

John Braine, young British author and recipient of literary acclaim throughout two continents, will deliver a series of lectures at Davidson on Nov. 24 concerning his novel Room at the Top, selected as the YMCA “Book of the Semester.”

First published in 1957, Room at the Top has been hailed by the New York Times as “the most discussed, debated, and lauded first novel.” The motion picture based upon the book met with enormous success in the United States and England and merited for actress Simone Signoret an Academy Award for her magnificent performance. The author himself was a Yorkshire librarian before turning to freelance writing. His other works — The Hand of the Hunter and Life at the Top, a sequel to Room at the Top — have firmly established Braine among the foremost of Britain's “new wave" of writers.

Artist Series Brings ‘Twelfth Night’ Today

The Helen Hayes Repertory Company will present William Shakespeare’s ‘Twelfth Night” tonight at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium. With this program, the Davidson College Artist Series begins a new year of bringing cultural entertainment to the campus. This particular offering is a part of Davidson’s observance of the 400th anniversary celebration of Shakespeare's birthday.

Organized in 1852 by Helen Hayes and its producer-director Jack Manning, this group of 12 performers represents a collection of exceptional talent from the fields of stage and television. The company has attained considerable acclaim for its previous performances and is now touring the southern states, presenting plays at many colleges and universities.

In order to rehearse “Hamlet" and “Villains, Lovers, and Fools," two other plays they will present on their tour, the group will remain on campus through tomorrow. This will give interested students an excellent opportunity to meet and talk with these performers about their work. Miss Hayes, however, will not be present, since she does not travel with the group but acts as its artistic advisor.

Producer-Director Manning has done much fine work in the field of entertainment, having appeared with such persons as Jose Ferrer, Uta Hagen, and Robert Preston. His television production of “Hamlet” ranks among the best of all Shakespearean performances in that medium. He has appeared in several of his own group’s productions also.

Graduate To Speak At Monday Chapel

The Rev. William H. Crane, a Davidson graduate active in international student affairs, will speak in Monday's chapel. With a BD from Union Seminary in New York, the Rev. Crane has recently participated in the World Student Christian Federation. Born in the Congo, he has traveled extensively in Africa and has made

Dr. W. A. Benfield To Preach Sunday

Dr. William A. Benfield, Jr., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charleston, W. Va., will preach in this week's vespers service. A native of West Virginia and a Davidson graduate, Benfield received his BD from Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary and his ThD from Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. In addition to his present pastorate, Benfield has served as minister of Highland Church in Louisville, Ky., and First Presbyterian Church in Shreveport, La. Benfield has also taught and held the position of vice-president at Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary.

Publish Directory Of Alumni

The Alumni Office will publish an alumni directory listing the 10,000 Davidson graduates in alphabetical, class, and geographical order. Bill Bondurant, director of alumni activities, said the directory, Davidson’s first in 40 years, will be available by the last week of October. Bondurant explained that several groups have recently requested such a publication. The directory will also be of use in soliciting contributions for the Living Endowment Campaign.

In regard to the problems involved in compiling the publication, Bondurant commented, “The big thing that you're up against is time. We sometimes get 20 changes of address a day. At this rate, the directory can rapidly become out of date. The longer you wait from the time it goes to press until the time that it is released, the more obsolete it becomes.”

However, Bondurant promises that with the aid of the college’s new IBM processing equipment, the directory can be published within five weeks of the time that the last address change is made. The directory will be distributed without charge to the persons who participated in the 1963-64 Living Endowment Campaign. Additional copies will be available at the Alumni Office.

Concerning future issues, Bondurant speculated that because of the ease of compiling the directory, one can probably be published every two or three years. He added that the present directory is a pilot project in the use of the IBM equipment and “has enabled us to see a number of opportunities for the classification and publication of lists of alumni for many different purposes. The possibilities are unlimited.”

Veinfeld Defends De Gaulle’s Actions

Charles de Gaulle was justified in blocking the entrance of Great Britain into the Common Market, said Richardson Scholar Daniel Veinfeld in a discussion Tuesday night in the Union sponsored by the YMCA International Students Committee. From Marseilles, France, Veinfeld defended de Gaulle’s action in his talk entitled “De Gaulle’s France” as a move to prevent England's entering the Market still allied with its Commonwealth nations.

Veinfeld said de Gaulle leads France under the constitution which he has amended to suit “Gaullism,” the brand and theory of government which the French president practices. After de Gaulle, if he is not killed, said Veinfeld, the successor will be able to rule only if the present constitution is changed or amended.

The discussion revolved mostly around the Common Market controversy with Richardson Scholars George Rosso from Italy and Simon Blackford and Michael Light, both from England, to present their ideas. Talks by the Richardson students, sponsored by the IRC, will continue throughout the year on topics of present-day interest from a perspective other than American.Visits to India, Europe, and Latin America. On Thursday, the Rev. Charles Johnson, Presbyterian Minister at Duke University, will speak in chapel. A North Carolinian, the Rev. Johnson is a former Roman Catholic. A musician, he is also an entertainer and athlete. No chapel program is scheduled for Tuesday next week. On Wednesday, Senator Jennings Randolph of West Virginia will speak on federal aid programs in the Great Issues series.

Allocation Of Large Amount To Aid Campus Organizations

The Student Body Financial Committee approved a plan this week for the allocation of the $24,675 Student Activity Fee to various campus activities and publications. The total requests for money made to the committee exceeded the amount which was available from the Activity Fee, and thus several publications received less than they had asked for. A comparison of the amounts requested and approved by the committee, as well as the amounts approved last year, is as follows:

| Publication          | 1964-65 Requested | 1964-65 Approved | 1963-64 Approved |
|---------------------|-------------------|------------------|------------------|
| Quips and Cranks    | $8,900            | $8,700           | $8,700           |
| Davidsonian         | $6,000            | $5,750           | $5,750           |
| Scripts ’n Pranks   | $2,485            | $2,420           | $2,420           |
| Wildcats Handbook   | $1,375            | $1,375           | $1,375           |
| Student Body        | $1,000            | $1,000           | $910             |
| Artist Series       | $5,250            | $4,650           |                  |

The Student Activity Fee is set at $25 per student and is taken yearly from the $100 General Fee. As approved for this year by the Finance Committee, and as taken on a “per student” basis, each $25 Activity Fee is divided as follows: Quips and Cranks, $8.81; The Davidsonian, $5.83; Scripts ’n Pranks, $2.45; Wildcat Handbook, $1.89; Student Body, $1.01; Artist Series, $5.32. The $180 difference between the total of the Activity Fees collected and the total amount approved is being held in reserve for next year.

Room at the Top is a story of opportunism, of status-seeking, and promises some trenchant observations on this “cult of success” in the series of discussions he will lead. Says the author, "Nothing can be more fascinating than the study of status. The novelist cannot afford not to be fascinated by it. He is the only one able to view it with proper detachment since he possesses no status himself. I'm glad I'm like the pathologist, whose only concern with the disease is to study it; I am neither like the physician who has to cure it nor like the patient who has to suffer from it."

Braine brings to the Davidson campus a wealth of experience and a faculty of acute perception which often is lacking in the social critic. So that interested persons might have the chance to examine John Braine’s style and his ideas, 300 copies of Room at the Top have been ordered by the college bookstore and will soon be on sale for 60 cents. Though his exact schedule is yet to be determined, Braine will probably follow the usual procedure of speaking in chapel and conducting informal discussions later in the day.

By HEYWARD CARTER, Davidsonian Feature Writer

While the recent “discovery” of a wallet and papers belonging to Brigadier-General William Lee Davidson has caused mild excitement in some quarters here at Davidson, it has been of little aid in giving any clues to his personal life. This wallet, found lately in the Public Records Office in London, England, was apparently taken from the corpse of General Davidson after he had been shot trying to cross Cowan's Dam, on the Catawba River. It was probably then sent to the Public Records Office where it has lain for the past 182 years. Contents are of little value to modern historians as all papers refer either to known facts and situations, or are impersonal correspondences with his contemporaries. From the entire group of 16 documents, no new or relatively interesting information can be drawn, except, perhaps, that General Davidson must have had an unusually large wallet in which to keep all of this ‘historical trash.” Among the most interesting articles found were a bill for ¾ of a dollar, a letter from a Tory’s widow requesting the return of her slave boy, a letter from General Thomas Sumter, and a list of recruits in one of the regiments under his command. (This letter is interesting only because it shows that of 31 men in the regiment, 18 could not even sign their own name.)

Dr. Chalmers Davidson, director of the library, has said: “General Davidson, although there was no more completely adored soldier in North Carolina, has always been a rather impersonal figure.” Little is known of his personal life, which would probably be painfully uninteresting. He apparently had a happy home life (he had eight children), but no papers from his family or close friends have ever been found. He was a popular soldier and a good leader; his major problem was proving it. He had never made any notable blunders or errors, but he was, for some reason, ordered to keep out of the battle of Cowpens and the battle of King’s Mountain, contenting himself with merely sending in portions of his troops while he remained behind. True, he did bottle up Cornwallis at Charlotte, but this was a minor action, unworthy of winning for him any real laurels. Kept out of any major situation from the beginning of the war until his death, Davidson never had a chance to prove himself. Perhaps if he had been placed in a crucial situation he would have won glory and fame, but “every time the bases were loaded and he was up to bat he was pulled out of the line-up.” He was, in the words of Dr. Davidson, “a man with no runs, no hits, and no errors.”

CONSTRUCTION ON CAMPUS—Work on renovating the steam plant (above) is proceeding close to schedule, according to Grover C. Meetze, director of the Physical Plant. Besides the new roof, the complete face-lifting will include covering the coal pits in front of the building, thus creating more work area, and installing modern safety equipment for the boilers. Meetze said, “The changes will give us one of the most up-to-date steam plants of any institution our size.” (Staff Photo by Smith)

Auto Violations On Rise: ‘Nothing intentional’

By DAVID COFFEY, Davidsonian Staff Writer

Stricter enforcement of the automobile parking regulations since the beginning of the fall semester has resulted in a marked increase in the number of tickets issued for violations. Since July 1, $236 in fines have been collected, while during the comparable period in 1963, no more than $75 was received. The new assistant dean of students, Dr. Robert G. Jones, who every Friday conducts traffic court, insists there has been no intentional crackdown. “We are only trying to enforce the parking regulations which the faculty has approved,” Jones said. “The administration has always contended,” he continued, “that it does not give out tickets to increase the college’s revenue, but to facilitate the control of campus traffic.”

Most of the tickets issued during the first week of classes were issued to students without parking permits, who parked in areas around the dorms restricted only to vehicles with such permits. In more recent weeks, however, more tickets have been issued to student cars illegally parked in areas reserved for the faculty or ROTC Department, or to cars parked in the road in front of the fraternities, where all parking is prohibited. Parking tickets are given by the campus security force, and Jones referred to the effort to identify the owners of the cars given tickets as a “time-consuming process.” He also said, “When the car has no student permit, the only clue we have is the license number and the state from which it came. In such cases, we must write and find out in whose name these licenses are issued. Many cars given tickets are never identified.”

UNION PARKING

Within the next few weeks, new signs will be posted in the faculty parking area near the Union restricting the area to faculty cars only during the hours of 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays, and from 8 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. on Saturdays. This rule change by the faculty traffic committee is designed to make the Union more accessible to students during the evening. This fall, the faculty committee also acted to ban motorcycles and motorbikes from the campus.

E. N. (Cop) Linker, campus security officer, advises all students to read carefully the parking regulations in the freshman handbook. “I’m inclined to believe,” he stated, “that the number of tickets issued has increased because these fellows haven't read the regulations. It seems to me that most upperclassmen must think that the handbooks are for freshmen only, but that's not the case. I don't like to give out tickets, and students are always giving me excuses to explain why they’re illegally parked where they are. All in all, it’s a helluva job.”

AFTER 182 YEARS Gen. Davidson’s Wallet Found

A sketch of the Catawba River at Cowan’s Ford. Engraved for Stedman’s History of the American War.