FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1964

IMAC Elects Thurman; Gams Lead In Softball

BY DON TYLER

The IMAC met in the College Union last night and elected officers for the coming year. They are: President Mike Thurman, a member of the Phi Delta Theta; Vice-president Tommy Hunter, a Kappa Alpha; and Secretary Pat Hubbard of Alpha Tau Omega. It seems that not only will the Phi Delts have next year's president, but they also have a good chance of winning the IMAC championship this year. So far they are in first place with only softball, tennis, and volleyball remaining this year. As of now they are in fifth place in the softball standings with a record of two wins and one defeat. The Kappa Sigs are in a three-way tie for second place with the PIKA’s and the Sigma Chi’s with a record of two wins and no defeats. The Phi Gam's are in first place at the present time having won three games and lost none. One of the major questions to come before the IMAC is the classification and points given to various sports. Under the present system, there are three main classifications of sports. These are the major, minor, and intermediate categories. Contained in the major classification are flickerball, basketball, volleyball, and softball. The intermediate category consists of swimming, wrestling, and track. In the minor category are handball and tennis. As the rules now stand, 100 achievement points are given to the winning group in a major sport, 80 in an intermediate sport, and 60 in a minor one.

SOFTBALL STANDINGS
Phi Gam 3-0
PIKA 2-0
Kappa Sig 2-0
Sigma Chi 2-0
Phi Delt 2-1
KA 2-2
Beta 1-1
Independents 1-1
ATO 1-2
Pi Kapp 1-2
SAE 0-2
Sig Ep 0-3
Sigma Nu 0-3

CAT TALES BY JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

A NEW MEMBER?

East Carolina College will again try to gain admittance into the Southern Conference when the league’s Faculty Committee on Athletics meets May 1 in Roanoke. The Greenville, N.C. school has been trying to get in since it left the old North State Conference, now the Carolinas Conference, three years ago, and the odds on making it next month seem pretty good. President Martin has written the president, athletic director, and faculty committee representative of every member school to say that East Carolina, and that our Davidson favors admitting faculty representative, Dr. Paul Marrotte, will vote for their application. And as far as I can see, they shouldn’t be let in. There isn’t any reason why. E.C. has 6,000 students, more than every member school except West Virginia and George Washington, and with eight athletic teams, its athletic program is as strong as or stronger than those of several of the Southern’s membership. It is now an NCAA member, and as an NAIA affiliate, it won two national championships in swimming and one in baseball from 1957 through 1961. Football is also strong. The Pirates lost only one game last year, whipping the ACC’s Wake Forest 20-10 and winning a minor post-season bowl game. E.C.’s athletic facilities seem more than adequate: They include a new 16,000-seat football stadium with area for expansion, a new $85,000 track, and a 6,000-seat gymnasium now under construction. The southern half of the league (Davidson, Furman, Citadel) would have scheduling problems decreased with E.C.’s admittance, and Greenville is a convenient location for the northern schools to play on trips to Davidson and South Carolina. The addition would increase North Carolina’s interest in the Southern Conference and thus help Davidson. Weighed against these favorable factors are the liabilities of the school’s association in the mind with the old name of “E.C.T.C.” and the reluctance of some to expand the conference past nine members. E.C. easily meets all the requirements for membership eligibility, chief of which are recommendation of three members, subsidized athletics, NCAA membership, favorable geographical location, and participation in six sports (football, basketball, baseball, track, and two others). It must also be recommended by the Conference Athletic Directors Association, who consider athletic facilities, athletic budget, and contribution to conference prestige, all of which are factors in which E.C. rates favorably. It seems evident that East Carolina would be an asset to the Southern Conference, which, except in the area of basketball, is pretty much in need of assets. I hope they make it.

LAKE NORMAN REGATTA

Regardless of the hill’s forthcoming decision on appropriations for Davidson’s lake facilities, Davidson will stage its first regatta next year on Lake Norman. The IFC is making tentative plans for such an event early next year, with each fraternity pledge class entering a three-man boat to race from the point to the lake campus. Five dollars will be the maximum spent on construction of the vessels, which must complete the course to be eligible for the trophy to be donated by the Sig Eps along with a monetary prize. The idea is being borrowed from Marshall College in West Virginia, where the regatta is staged as an annual event across the Ohio River. Last year’s winner was a tub with logs lashed on each side, and the runner-up was an outfit composed of three wash tubs tied together with a pledge in each one. Sounds like a pretty good opportunity for fraternities who make mistakes in their bidding.

BASKETBALL

Fred Hetzel’s chances for first-team All-America honors will be much enhanced next year with the Wildcats’ appearances against NYU before the New York sportswriters in Madison Square Garden and in Philadelphia in a return match against St. Joseph’s. Although the schedule isn’t complete or official yet, it is apparent that Lefty's crew will have their work cut out for them in non-conference competition. In addition to meeting the two powerhouses named above, the ’Cats will play Ohio State in the Coliseum and will probably meet Wake Forest in a home and home arrangement and Clemson and Virginia in single games. Five conference contests are slated, with all of last year’s opponents retained and two with George Washington added.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Virginians Fall To ‘Cat Netters

BY CHARLES EDWARDS

Davidson’s netters captured two more matches this week by blanking N.C. State and Richmond, thus upping their season record to 10-3. In the contest with State last Saturday, Bill Schutt took John Emmons, 6-4, 6-1; Bill Council defeated Tom Artinano, 6-0, 6-2; Jeff Frank beat Denny Logue, 6-3, 6-1; John Ariail romped over Jim Lankford, 6-1, 6-1; David Meschan won over Jerry Owens, 6-1, 6-2 and Frank Baumgardner defeated Don Hooks, 6-1, 6-3. In the doubles matches, the Wildcats also took no losses, with Schutt and Council defeating Emmons and Logue, 9-7, 6-2; Baumgardner and Ariail taking Owens and Bobby Koska 6-3, 6-2; and Frank and Meschan wiping out Artinano and Lankford, 6-2, 6-4.

Speaking of Jeff Frank, sophomore netter now boosted to a starting spot, Coach Fogleman says, “Jeff's played five and won five for us this year (now his record is 6-0), and in squad matches this week he beat everybody on the squad. You have to go with a winner.”

As VPI, Furman Take 3 of 4

BY FORREST ROLES

“Well,” said Coach Stevens, “we can relax and play ball now. You don't lose three conference games in this league and win the championship.” Stevens was referring to his Davidson baseball team, which had just dropped three out of four Southern Conference games, losing two at VPI, 6-2 and 8-5, Saturday, and splitting with Furman Wednesday with a 6-5 win after dropping the opener 4-0. A game with Duke scheduled for Tuesday was rained out, but will be completed at a later date if Coach Harry Fogleman can arrange one. The team left Wednesday for a playing tour which includes matches with Richmond, George Washington (last year's Southern Conference champions), and William and Mary in a series of conference encounters. In the first of these matches, played yesterday against Richmond, the ‘Cats again came through unscathed and brought their conference slate to 2-0 with a 9-0 victory. Schutt defeated Coleman Yeatts, 6-0, 6-1; Dick Hurd whipped Bill Carpenter 6-0, 6-1; Tom Tenwick fell to Woody Cleveland, 2-6, 6-2, 6-4; Frank took Larry Hitchner, 6-3, 7-5; Ariail topped Bob Bayliss, 6-2, 6-3, and Baumgardner won over Ed Brooks, 6-3, 6-2. In doubles competition, Schutt and Council tallied 6-2 and 6-0 to defeat Yeatts and Hitchner; Hurd and Cleveland topped Carpenter and Bayliss, 6-2, 6-1; and Ariail andBaumgardner OUT? NOT SO! said the base umpire. But Furman’s second baseman was out for the game after protesting a bit too strongly the ump’s call on Davidson’s Tom Whitley. (Photo by Thel)

Frosh Falter, Fumble In Losing To Prepsters
BY BILL BRIGGS

For the past four games, the freshman baseball team seems to have been missing something. In particular, 44 of the first 68 men to bat for the freshmen missed something—the ball—to record 44 strikeouts for opposing pitchers. The team missed hits also—getting none in the first game and only six in the next two. But things are improving. The ‘Cats’ attempt to up their present 4-8 record this afternoon in a twin bill against powerful Georgia Southern here. The visitors, finalists in last year's NAIA tournament, defeated Davidson 8-0 in an earlier encounter at Statesboro.

The conference losses were a disappointment to both Coach Stevens and the members of the team, who had hoped to be title contenders this year. In the first VPI game, starter Earl Cole gave up five runs in the first inning, and the Gobblers’ starter, Sam Jenkins, held the lead to manage a 6-2 victory. The ‘Cat runs were scored in the second frame when they bunched all their three hits.

In the second game, ‘Cat starter Barry Teague couldn't gain his rhythm and control and left the game with the ‘Cats trailing 3-1. VPI then began to hit and build up a commanding lead which a last-inning ‘Cat rally couldn't overcome. Don Davidson and Steve Heckard collected four of the ‘Cats’ seven hits, all three of their RBIs, and two of their runs.

In the first Furman game, Davidson's batsmen failed to solve the junk delivered by Paladin Ralph Harwood and were shut out for the third time this season. The only ‘Cat hits were singles by Jim Hyder and Tom Whitley, and a double by Charlie Marcon. In the second game, Marcon went wild, going three for three, including a home run, and driving in four runs, including the winning one. The other six ‘Cat hits were sprinkled through the starting lineup.

The ‘Cats scored the go-ahead and winning runs in the fifth inning with Jim Hyder doubling, Tom Whitley reaching base on an infield single, Hyder scoring, and Whitley going to second on the overthrow at first. Rick Smyre grounded out, putting Whitley on third, from whence he scored on Don Davidson's fielder's choice. Then Marcon smashed a line drive to right field which took a bad hop and slipped by the right fielder, and Marcon came all the way around for a home run. Howard Bryan was the winning pitcher in relief of Dave Johnson, who ran into control problems in the fifth. Bryan gave up the Paladin’s last three runs in the last inning, but they were the result of three Davidson errors.

“If we're going to win, we're going to have to stop giving the opposition more than three outs per inning,” commented Coach Stevens on his team's performance to date. “We've had pretty good hitting and fair pitching, but our fielding and base running have sometimes been atrocious. You can't win ball games like that.”

PAGE THREE

‘Cat Cindermen Race To 91-54 Win Over Richmond
BY WAYNE LANE

The Wildcat track team routed the Richmond Spiders yesterday in a meet that saw individual scores soar as the thinclads brought their dual meet record to 3-1. Davidson received a 17-point effort from David Brown, a 15-point effort from Jim Wallace, 14 points from Billy Mills, and 10 points and a winning effort on two relay teams from Turner as the ‘Cats raced to a 91-54 victory.

Turner's two firsts came in the 100 and 220-yard dashes. His 21.6 time in the 220 tied a school record set by Fred Fleagle in 1933. With Wallace taking firsts in each throwing event and Brown dominating the jumps, the ‘Cats gained 15 first places out of 18 events. Wallace won the discus with a toss of 123'11", the javelin with a throw of 148'11", and the shot with a heave of 40'6". Brown won the high hurdles in 16.2 and the broad jump with a leap of 20'5". He also placed in the high jump, the pole vault, and the hop, skip, and jump.

Billy Mills won the pole vault with a vault of 11'6" and the hop, skip, and jump with a jump of 40'11". He also picked up a third in the high hurdles and a second in the high jump to contribute 14 points to the winning cause. John Barrow took the 3-mile run in 16 minutes 13 seconds. Rufus Adair jumped 5'11" to take the high jump and later placed second in the discus. Steve Gill took the 440 with a time of 51.7 and Denny Phillips won the mile in 4:33.3 to round out the individual winners for the ‘Cats. The trackmen completed a sweep of the meet by taking both the mile and the 440 relays with times of 3:32.4 and 44.5 respectively.

In the News Piedmont Relays held Saturday in Greenville, the ‘Cats racked up 21 points and a fifth-place finish behind Clemson, Furman, Maryland State, and the Citadel. In individual competition, Turner collected the ‘Cats’ only first place in the meet with a 9.9 clocking in the 100-yard dash.

A quick glance at the record is deceptive. One might draw the conclusion that the team is not playing up to Davidson standards. The first three games saw the opposition score 38 runs to Davidson's 2; however, the squad bounced back strong from the first three defeats to almost beat Ashley High of Gastonia. In this last outing, the freshmen more than doubled their season's total of base hits, tripled their season's run production, and played their best offensive game of the year, giving up only seven runs and making only three errors. It was pitcher Gene Bennett who was credited with the 7-6 defeat; however, of all the pitchers with decisions on their record, he still is tied for the best with Charlie Elliot (0-1).

The season’s first game saw the boys a little nervous in dropping an 8-0, no-hit decision to Lincolnton. Ace pitcher Steve Herman struck out 19 of the 24 batters to face him in his victory. The second game was also against Lincolnton, but this time the ‘Kittens had the home advantage. They made quick use of it by scoring their second-highest run total of the season, but in concentrating on hitting, other facets of their game suffered, and they still dropped a 17-2 decision.

On the rebound against Hunter Huss High School of Gastonia, the freshmen managed to cut down their opponents’ margin of victory, but still lost 13-0. Bryant Hinnant led the team in batting (1 for 3). Hinnant, whose season average is .500, and who leads the team in that department, unfortunately has a higher batting than fielding average. Against Hunter Huss, he managed 1 for 6 from the field.

Faced by such dire circumstances, Coach Roger Thrift diligently searched the freshman PE classes for material. About seven boys answered his plea for assistance, and their addition has added considerable strength to the freshmen group. With the newly reinforced group, the ‘nimble nine’ raced to Gastonia for the game against Ashley High—but still lost. At the moment, there is no definitely set starting lineup. With the weak practice turnouts, it is almost a whoever-comes-first-plays situation.

Buddy Durham and Bill Dale have been bright spots on the team in pitching and hitting. Durham is the ‘ace’ of the mound staff even with a record of 0-2. Dale leads the team in RBIs with credit for almost half the season's total of eight.

SUMMER JOBS FOR STUDENTS
NEW 1964 directory lists 20,000 summer job openings in 50 states. MALE or FEMALE. Unprecedented research for students includes exact pay rates and job details. Names employers and their addresses for hiring in industry, summer camps, national parks, resorts, etc., etc., etc. Hurry! Jobs filled early. Send two dollars. Satisfaction guaranteed. Send to: Summer Jobs Directory—P. O. Box 13593—Phoenix, Arizona.

THE FUN BEGINS AT HATTI
“Just up the road...”

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina