Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Whistlestop ...

If there is a choice between a crackpot and a crook, I will take the crook.
—Anonymous freshman, Sept. 22, 1964

Usually when asked to break down the Davidson student body politically, we respond: “About 20 percent are conservative; another 20 percent are liberal; while the remaining 60 percent are apathetic.” The poll conducted by THE DAVIDSONIAN Tuesday helped dispel some of our feelings about the apathetic Davidson student: on some issues at least he is willing to take a stand. Students numbering 702—a record participation—voted in the poll. We are hopeful that their motivation is a sustained interest in the events of our day rather than the frenzy of a Presidential campaign.

And this “frenzy of a Presidential campaign?” In it we can find little but disappointment. The Goldwater-Johnson race is, in effect, anticlimactic to the drive for the Republican nomination. In our idealism we looked forward to a great liberal-conservative dialogue. In our moments of practicality we realize that a liberal-conservative dialogue would get neither candidate more than a few votes. Hence, the Republican camp has blasted away at anything and everything vaguely associated with Democrats. We hear references to wheeling-dealing by the incumbent, loud whispers of scandal in high places. Meanwhile, the Democratic camp mouths glib phrases about “peace,” “prosperity,” and “progress,” while charges of “extremist” and “push-button happy” cloud a smog-filled sky.

In our idealism we wonder whether the issues are valid. But again turning to our moments of practicality, we find it useless to wonder. Political expediency. Yes, political expediency until one can take no more but there is still more. Gone is the rational statement and the well-reasoned position. Ours is the “Glib Age.” Into the higher political echelons go the talented writers, the masters of the “glib phrase.” No longer do we hear: “Does it make sense?” The answer is obvious. The criterion is “Does it sound good?” And in a melancholy resignation, we ask the inevitable: “Why?” You evade the answer. You tell yourself about the power of advertising—of selling—when the subject matter is kept simple. Cardinal rule: don’t get too involved; don’t go into great detail; don’t go over their... But “Why?” is still staring you in the face. Reluctantly you give in and answer with a question. “Ever discuss politics with America in a barber shop on Saturday morning?”

Browsing...

We understand that in the Self-Study program last year, the professors were asked to list all books and periodicals which were needed to bring the Library up to what they considered essential in their departments. No limit was put on the number or expense of books and periodicals that should be listed. Many of them did a thorough job of self-study and came up with imposing lists of needs. Then the President went out and raised about $40,000—over and above the regular library budget—to make the purchases. Every department got what it had requested with the exception of the History Department, which had asked for twice as much as any other department (they have some “eager-beavers” in the department). So if the Library isn’t nearly up to what it ought to be, the Administration apparently is not to blame. Certainly the needs will continue to grow as the College grows. But we have confidence that these needs will be met.

One small request from THE DAVIDSONIAN: Since the Library is already open “for reading and reflection” on Sunday afternoons, couldn’t we open again for a few hours after Vespers? We aren’t asking for “competition” with Vespers, just a place to go where it is quiet and conducive to “reading and reflection” after church is out.

Directory Directions...

THE DAVIDSONIAN is pleased to bring out the annual student directory one week earlier than in past years. But this newspaper is also hopeful that this is the last year that it has such a task. Needed is a bound student directory, a directory with considerably more information than names and room numbers. Davidson’s Alpha Phi Omega (APO), national service fraternity, has published such a directory for the last two years, but distribution has been delayed until late autumn. Ads could be gathered in the spring. Information on upper-classmen could be set during the summer. And no later than a week after Pledge Saturday, a complete directory could be available. Certainly, APO should agree to move its schedule up, or the college should assume the responsibility of putting out the directory.

An Autumn Walk...

“The 80-acre campus of the college, shaded by elms, maples and century-old oaks, has an atmosphere of informality and calm. The antebellum buildings of the original quadrangle, with their white columns and red brick, suggest the era of southern neo-classicism in which they were constructed. The newer buildings, thoroughly modern throughout, preserve the tie with tradition by an adherence in their exteriors to Classical Revival forms.”
—Davidson College Reference Catalogue, 1964-65

“Now we see this grove adorned with buildings, a goodly temple to God standing in the midst a just emblem that the Gospel to be preached in it is the mainspring to the whole system.”
—President Robert Hall Morrison, Inaugural Address, 1838

“. . . the neat campus with the red brick buildings of yesterday and today blended in efficient harmony...”
—The Charlotte News, Nov. 26, 1960

Copy Editor Allen Webb

Photographers Sam Smith Tom Thel

Cartoonists Jack Lingle Rufus Hallmark John Compton

Asst. Business Mng. Irvine Welling

Advertising Manager Ned Kelly

Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane

Contributors this week: Dick Spencer, Bill Aitken, Mike Hunter, Greg Haynes, Joe Ford, Steve Brown, Harry Carr, Britt Snider, Marc Copelan, Bob Vance, Ron Snow, David Coffey, Joe Bentley, Ted Gusman, Frank Fleming, Bruce Gregory, Calvin Zon, Boo Holladay, Neville Patterson, Tom Cook, Preston St. Clair, Palmer Kirkpatrick, and Paul Simpson.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

The Class of ’68

Beanie Boy Time Again: Home Mores In ‘Cat Den

By BRUCE GREGORY Davidsonian Feature Writer

This year’s freshman class presents another example of Davidson’s ability to attract the top-quality student with a well-rounded background. All statistics indicate that verbal scores and math scores of applicants above 600. But college board scores and class rank don't form the only indications. The class has a record to be proud of, even in comparison with the upperclassmen. Much will be expected from this new group of Davidson gentlemen.

Those high-school seniors who sent in their college board scores numbered 2590. The average verbal score was 527, while the average math score was 573. The figures for the year before are almost identical with the exception of 470 more applicants for this year. A closer analysis reveals some interesting progress. Using 600 as a cut-off point, the number of applicants this year who had this score or above for the 1962-63 class was 423 verbal score and 790 math score. For 1963-64 there were 510 verbal scores and 850 math scores of applicants above the 600 cut-off point. But for this year’s class there were 620 verbal scores and 1060 math scores.

Of the many applicants, 279 men were accepted: for a percentage of 10.8%. Their average college board scores were verbal, 607; and math, 658. The box on this article compares performances of previous classes. These figures show a 45% increase in high verbal scores and a 34% increase in high math scores over the two-year period.

AVERAGE COLLEGE BOARDS
CLASS VERBAL MATH
Freshman 607 658
Sophomore 591 640
Junior 585 629
Senior 574 610

This year’s freshmen ranked high in their high school standings. Seventy-three percent ranked in the upper 10%, fifteen percent ranked in the second 10%, and twelve percent ranked below the second 10%. And due to the varied considerations for admission, the college accepted only 60% of those applicants who ranked in the top 10%.

Two conditions of quality are the advance placement and leadership records which the freshmen class made. Thirty-three advance placement exams were submitted and twenty-two of these received full credit in history, English, math and/or French. Almost 10% of the class served either as presidents of the student bodies or student councils, 4% were annual editors, and 7.5% were newspaper editors. Nearly 20% served as captain of at least one major athletic team.

It can be easily seen that the new freshman class has a great potential, but none of them can afford to rest secure on past laurels. As Dr. Martin put it, “Of you, much will be expected.”expected.” FROM THE BACK OF THE BUS Schlafly ‘Echo’ Broadside ‘Bares Black G.O.P. Past' By CHARLES RAMBERG Davidsonian Associate Editor

As we watched the Goldwater steamroller grind on to victory at the Republican convention this past summer, we had no idea that we were also witnessing a great moral revolution within the G.O.P. In "A Choice Not An Echo," Phyllis Schlafly’s purpose is to give Senator Goldwater an aura of godliness, but in her hatchet work on Barry's innumerable enemies, she has also bludgeoned the Republican Party.

The story is exciting, reminding us of the shoot-’em-up cowboy flicks that the Old West has given us. It pits the good guys (the Goldwater Gang) against the bad guys (masked bandits known only as “the Eastern Kingmakers”). It seems that, beginning with the 1940 G.O.P. convention that nominated Wendell Willkie, these bad guys named every Republican presidential nominee until this year, when the Goldwater Gang stopped them cold.

According to Phyllis Schlafly, these kingmaker candidates have invariably been pawns, unwilling to fight the issues that will appeal to bedrock Republicans. In the opinion of the author, the most effective issue has usually been Communism, foreign and domestic. The kingmakers are identified as a group of powerful New York financial leaders who have a vested interest in the continuation of deficit spending by the U.S. government and in the continuation of foreign aid programs. For those readers who may be unable to perceive the purpose of foreign aid, Mrs. Schlafly reminds them that foreign “giveaway” programs are an integral part of the “America Last” foreign policy dictated by the kingmakers.

The kingmakers’ most heinous crime has been that by “using hidden persuaders and psychological warfare techniques, (they) manipulated the Republican National Convention to nominate (kingmaker) candidates...” This charge is used to blame these mysterious eastern bandits for all the behind-the-scenes machinations that go on at any political convention. Following this broadside at the kingmakers, Mrs. Schlafly describes how the 1940 Willkie nomination was “bought” with kingmaker dollars. She believes that the kingmaker scheming led the delegates to pick Willkie instead of a man whom they knew in their hearts to be right. After reading this, we wonder less about the ethics of the kingmakers than about the intelligence and responsibility of those Republican delegates who have been so often and so easily swayed.

It is in this light that the nomination of Barry Goldwater must be seen as evidence of a moral revolution within the G.O.P. Phyllis Schlafly assures us that the kingmakers were at work in the Cow Palace last July. But this time the Republican delegates voted their hearts, if not their heads, and nominated Barry Goldwater. Now the bad guys are rotting in their graves on Boot Hill, while the rest of us wonder how much closer to our graves we'll get if Goldwater somehow wins.

This G.O.P. moral revolution aside, Mrs. Schlafly’s book is mostly just plain revolting. Her prose is laced with many statements that merit reading and provoke laughter. For example, she tells us that “Failing to file any income tax return is a favorite failing of Democrat liberals.” She cites two Democrat tax-evaders to back up her preposterous charge. For another sample, “The Soviet empire would die of its own economic anemia if Democratic Administrations didn’t keep giving it massive blood transfusions, such as the sending of 64 million bushels of American wheat.” We may have real cause to fear the Russians if they can turn 64 million bushels (about five percent of the annual U.S. output) into a “massive transfusion.”

Last of all, there is the defense of simple solutions for great problems. Terming sophisticated solutions for complex national problems a “Rube Goldberg approach,” Mrs. Schlafly mentions the sewing machine and the airplane as the sort of simple solutions she favors. “Finally, there is a very simple solution to what to do about the whole ‘looney’ mess in Washington today—elect Barry Goldwater, the man with the courage to give us simple solutions.” We have nothing to add.

Prexies Laud NSA: ‘Good Step Forward’ By FRED SACKETT President, Senior Class

Will Jackson and I were the Davidson College delegates to the National Student Association National Conferences in Minneapolis, Minn. this past August 12-16. This is the annual convention of the NSA, where workshops are held, and the policy for the following year for the National Office is legislated. Will attended the President's Conference, while I attended the NSA Coordinator's Conference. These conferences serve not only as workshops, but to a great degree set up the agenda of the Congress itself.

To a surprising degree, the Conference steered away from “political issues,” and concentrated more than it ever had before on practical problems of student governments. Even in a year when “liberal” organizations are hard pressed by the conservative issues in this election campaign, the growth of a stronger group of schools reflecting a “moderate” trend was evident. The conferences dealt with such questions as: NSA in relation to other campus organizations; NSA speakers program; the role of the student council; the coordination of campus organizations; direct benefits to students; and problems faced by expanding student demands.

Some of these topics are wider in implication than the title leads one to think. For example, I feel we gained a great deal of valuable information on what NSA can do for students directly. NSA has realized that too often the students of member schools do not see the benefits of membership to NSA as plainly as do the Student Governments. In this respect, it has undertaken to make known the benefits which it can offer directly to the students through the Student Council. One idea which we felt would be of value is that of a student discount card. Other member schools have had great success in printing a card carrying the names of certain merchants in different businesses who guarantee a discount of a certain percentage to students. This card would be obtainable at a small fee, which would implement the member school's budget. By the publicity given, and the probable increase in trade by greater student buying, the merchant could see the value of giving discounts. The card would probably carry such items as: three or four restaurants, three or four men’s shops, certain trading stores in students’ supplies, and perhaps even movies and other entertainment. This would go much further than just the student identity card, and in joint effort with Queens, would give students of both schools a significant saving in money.

Other ideas which can be brought out at this time are the possibilities of charter flights to Florida and Nassau during Spring break. NSA already operates these flights at less than half price of regular fare. By arranging a stop in Charlotte of these flights, our students could join the migration of “sun seekers,” at luxury travel speeds and economical rates. In the area of publications, the list of material which would be valuable to other campus organizations, such as the Honor Court, Student Union, Interfraternity Council, fraternities, or the honoraries is a quite impressive one.

But I feel that the greatest fault found in NSA by the Davidson students was the “liberal political overtone” of the organization. I will not say that this has been solved completely by any means, BUT THE GROWING ROLE OF “MODERATES” IS QUITE EVIDENT. The Columbia Resolution, calling for no political activity, and supported by the Carolinas-Virginia Region, was defeated by less than 40 votes during the Plenary Sessions. A resolution introduced to restate that NSA should take strong political stands on any issue, WAS DEFEATED BY 60 VOTES. A resolution titled, “Toward A More Effective and Representative USNSA,” which states “The USNSA National Student Conference shall take position on moral, political, or social issues only when they have a direct causal bearing on students in their educational milieu, that is, by virtue of their being enrolled in college and universities,” passed by the National Committee by a vote of 2 to 1. This was backed heavily by most of the schools of our region.

The Carolinas-Virginia region was very active at the Conference and at the Congress. We succeeded in getting Mike Lawler, past Student Body President of UNC at Chapel Hill, elected vice-president of NSA. The region introduced legislation pushing for elected NSA delegates at any school with over two delegates. ALSO, a reaffirmation for the Davidson resolution passed at the last Regional Conference, PROHIBITING POLITICAL RESOLUTIONS ON A REGIONAL LEVEL WHICH DO NOT DIRECTLY AFFECT STUDENTS, was made very clear to the schools of this region.

While NSA is still not the ideal organization that I feel Davidson would want it to be, THE PROGRESS THAT HAS BEEN MADE IS ENCOURAGING. The narrow defeat of the Columbia resolution, the defeat of the ‘Political Activity” resolution, and the Committee passage of the “More Effective NSA" resolution, all show signs of the changing role and policy of USNSA. With the region represented on the National Executive Committee by Mike Lawler, and with the reaffirmation of the regional resolution by Davidson, I feel that a good step forward has been made. I feel that our continued association with USNSA will prove a valuable and increasingly significant part of our student government here at Davidson. With an active role being played by Davidson, especially on the regional level, I don’t think that students will need to question the value of NSA at Davidson again for a long time.