PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1964

Playmate For February Appears In The Flesh

The bosom bubble has burst. The wonderful world of animal charm—the delusion of pound after pound of pulchritudinous flesh—Hugh Hefner’s horrendous hoax—toppled tragically last Friday during the opening bars of “Take All of Me.” Discriminating Davidson men wouldn’t have bothered. What is perhaps the college man's only sacred cow—the slick-paper siren of Playboy's centerfold—proved to be truly bovine last week when one of that exalted number appeared in the flesh for close-ups in 13 loci where Playboys are digested monthly and avidly. The grass is greener on the other side of the camera, and it would seem that our specimen had partaken indiscriminately of that sumptuous pasture. A toast, then, to make-up and photographic genius.

Miss Nancy Jo Hooper, February’s Playmate of the Month, flew into Douglas Airport Wednesday, April 22, under the auspices of Burlington Mills and Ledford Stores of Charlotte. She likewise flew into an embarrassingly intimate reception arranged for her at the airport and later at the Manger Motor Hotel. The airport affair was remarkably similar to a game of pin-the-tail-on-the-donkey, with guileless Davidson men serving as the butt of the huge jest. The cloistered student body was not allowed to savor its curiosity for long. Hefner's sprightly showpiece, complete with non-functional back zipper, was made available to the college community the following night. She considered it an extreme pleasure and was hardly able to contain herself on about eight separate occasions.

Miss Hooper spread herself as thinly as possible under the circumstances, stopping at each fraternity house and Lingle Manor to pose for cheesecake snapshots and conduct five-minute forums. Some of the discussions at the houses were rather animated, notably an interview with the Sigma Chis. After a subtle invitation—“Doesn’t anybody else want to kiss me?”—the erstwhile beauty bestowed a tantalizing sample of her charms on wave after wave of the brotherhood. Playboy spoke of her as a simple home-town Georgia Peach. Miss Hooper (Nancy Ann Harrison) hails from Spartanburg, S. C., and her conversation smacks of Chicago and Hefner's Play-mansion. She was, apparently, neither “home-town” nor “Georgia.” A simple peach, maybe.

Friday night Bunny favored us with song. Introducing the second half of the IFC concert, she sailed through the classic “Take All of Me” with somewhat less regard for pitch than roll, and the audience received her politely. After one last bout with her wayward zipper, the IFC bade a reluctant adieu, and relinquished her to the sock salesmen. From there, she says, it’s back to the Play pen and Hefner’s Herd.

Call To Action Set For Down-Trodden

Tonight at 11 o’clock, the lawn in front of Chambers will be the scene of the “first annual all-purpose demonstration.” According to the organizers (who understandably wish to remain anonymous), a considerable amount of philosophical contemplation went into the planning of the event. The demonstration will serve for the ventilation of the pent-up energies, the suppressed desires, the latent detestations of all and any Davidson students. Central to the whole event will be a protest against unimaginative lectures, reviews, as well as gnome professors and administrators. Anyone may make a statement to the convocation if he so desires so long as he makes a statement of intent and registration with the steering committee in 410 Duke. All demonstrators must bring signs or they must come prepared to declaim anything and everything. Suggested titles for signs: Help Stamp Out Virginity—Celibacy .... Bomb the Beatles .... Shut up Lady Bird .... We're for equality, as long as we're first in line .... Go Philadelphia Phillies .... Abolish Senior-Faculty Picnics .... Draft Harold Stassen .... Crown Mike Payne—Davidson’s answer. For those who have no desire to demonstrate and militantly oppose this form of expression, a demonstration against demonstrations has been suggested for later in the evening. “The possibilities,” noted an organizer, “are endless.”

Special Book Room Will Open May 9

The Smith Rare Book Room of the Davidson College Library, a memorial to four brothers who attended Davidson, will be formally opened on May 9. The room will house many of the library's old and rare books. Highlights of the collection, according to Dr. Chalmers Davidson, the director of the library, are more than 100 European and American first editions of Robert Burns’ works and two “incunabula” (cradle books), which were printed before 1500. One of the incunabula comprises the complete works of Seneca, and the other includes a biography of Thomas a Becket. Other rare works in the library include a two-volume set of Dr. Samuel Johnson's famous dictionary, believed to be from the first edition of 1755. Both rare books and rare magazines are included in the collection, most of which, Dr. Davidson said, has been donated to the library over a long period. Funds for the renovation of the second-floor room are being given by C. Alphonso Smith in honor of his father, Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, and his three uncles, Drs. Hay Watson Smith, Egbert Watson Smith, and Henry Louis Smith. Smith is the director of information for the Bureau of International Commerce in the Department of Commerce. Work in the Smith Room includes the installation of new carpeting, shelves, and lighting.

Students Give Tired Blood In Quantity If Not Quality

Tired Davidson students, recovering from a strenuous Spring Frolics weekend, nevertheless responded to the call of the American Red Cross, and donated over 260 pints of blood Monday and Tuesday. Opening their veins for the last time this school year in a campaign that the regional Red Cross director described as a “very fine drive,” Davidson gentlemen donated the majority of the 267 pints collected over the two-day period. Last year Davidson College won the Piedmont Carolinas Regional Blood Award, and this year students put forth a record final effort to defend the title. Exactly 104 Davidsonians rolled up their sleeves to give blood, and the total would have been higher had not some students been turned down as contributors because of illness or other reasons.

YMCA President Burns Announces Cabinet Posts

Lanier Burns, recently elected president of the YMCA, has announced his cabinet for next year. Those appointed head committees with a specific function in next year’s “Y” program. The Executive Committee, elected by the student body, is composed of Lanier Burns, president; Eric Nichols, vice-president; Mac Otts, secretary; and Barry St. Clair, treasurer. Rick Brand and Jay Federman will head the forums committee. Second semester of next year, Jay Federman will conduct a series on philosophical ethics and Rick Brand will run a similar series on practical ethics. This committee is also in charge of securing speakers from varied vocations. The Great Issues Program, a first semester program under Fred Sackett, will center on the individual's responsibility in concerning himself with elections, especially the national elections. The spiritual life committee is to be headed by Bill Rule. Next year, it will be changed to combine with the various fellowships, bringing closer coordination between the two. Rule will also be in charge of voluntary chapel and hopes to improve student-faculty relations with better informal discussions. John Crow and Decker Faw will run the deputations committee which will be expanded to include all opportunities such as churches in this area. The aim of this committee is to get Davidson students involved in working with these churches and at other colleges as part of the Student Exchange Program in which Davidson students go to other schools for discussions and students from other schools will come here. Steve Ramsburgh is in charge of the Community Work Program which will remain similar to this year’s program of working with scout troops, coaching area athletic teams and other community service projects. The Tutorial Service, started this year, will be continued and expanded under John Curry and Duncan Newcomer. A new committee has been devised for next year. This orientation group committee, under Vernon Anderson, will start discussion groups and related projects on the freshman halls next year to promote freshman hall unity and more rapid orientation. George Nzongola and Jon Miller are in charge of the International Students Program which is to further orient foreign students. It will remain much as it was this year. The publicity committee is to be headed by Charlie Dibbie, Buck Lawrimore, and John Alexander. Four members-at-large from the student body will be members of the cabinet to make suggestions and help in the planning of the “Y” program.ABROAD STUDENTS & TEACHERS

Largest NEW directory. Lists hundreds of career opportunities in Europe, South Africa, and the Pacific, for MALE or FEMALE. Totals 50 countries. Gives specific addresses and names of prospective U.S. employers with foreign subsidiaries. Exceptionally high pay, free travel, etc. In addition, enclosed vital guide and procedures necessary for foreign employment. Satisfaction guaranteed. Send two dollars to Jobs Abroad Directory—P. O. Box 13593—Phoenix, Arizona.

Students more aware of what the “Y” is doing. These four are Hugh Allen, Steve Bunch, Pat Fisher, and Tom Frist. Further appointments which have been made are Freshman Camp, Alex Bernhardt; Gift Fund, Lewis Norman; Book of the Year, Ronnie Reese; southern area YMCA representative, George Oehler; Senior Representative, Steve Davidson; and Junior Representative, Steve Gill.

Concerning the Y., President Burns said, “Next year, the YMCA will have perhaps the most varied and dynamic program in recent years at Davidson. The YMCA at Davidson will be only as great as the student body wishes to make it. We the cabinet ask for your cooperation and support.”

Up their madras sleeves Monday, while Tuesday about 163 students added to the reserves of the Red Cross. Students who contributed blood were excused from ROTC drill and no doubt Tuesday's increase in contributions was due to many cadets noting that drill would be held regardless of the weather condition. The ROTC department sponsors the blood drives at Davidson; this time Capt. Donald M. Campbell was the coordinator of the program. About 80 volunteers from the Davidson community contributed their services as nurses, registrars, and hostesses, while the sergeants from the ROTC department also donated their time and energies. In addition, some ROTC students assisted Red Cross personnel and received extra merits. Capt. Campbell termed the drive this week “very successful” and added that more pints would have been collected had...

McGlohon Jazzes in Concert Sunday

Loonis McGlohon, composer of numerous jazz pieces and music director of the Jefferson Standard Broadcasting Company, will present a concert in Hodson Hall Sunday at 3 p.m. The program will trace jazz's early origins in the church, its secular unfoldings, and its recent return to the scene of its birth.

Accompanying McGlohon will be drummer Jim Lackey, trombonist Joe Belk, tenor saxophonist Frank Mayne, and five other musicians. Miss Lo Ramsey will appear as vocalist. Admission to the Sunday afternoon concert will be free.

Artist Series Poet to Read Her Works

Miss Jean Garrigue, the Semester Circuit Poet sponsored by the Artist Series, will speak in chapel Monday and will later give recitations of her poetry. Miss Garrigue was born in Evansville, Ill., and has received degrees from the University of Iowa and the University of Chicago. Having toured Europe extensively, Miss Garrigue has also written reviews, short stories, and edited a newspaper. Her reviews have appeared in the New Republic, Kenyon Review, and the Saturday Review of Literature. Recently Miss Garrigue’s poems have appeared in Poetry, The Kenyon Review, and New Yorker.

WILL SPEAK IN FRIDAY CHAPEL

Ole Miss Professor Plans Lecture On Race Situation

BY HARRY CARR

James Silver, a controversial University of Mississippi history professor, will be on campus Thursday and Friday as the second of three speakers in the YMCA’s forum on the racial situation. “William Faulkner” will be Silver's topic on Thursday evening in Hodson Hall. In connection with the racial theme, he will deliver the address “Mississippi Rises” in chapel Friday morning. Because of Silver's appearance, there will be no chapel on Thursday.

As Silver stepped down from the presidency of the Southern Historical Association last November, he presented a highly controversial attack on his home state. Although he admitted that Negroes have made some gains in Mississippi, he called the state “a closed society.” In his 27 years as a professor at Ole Miss, Silver has appeared numerous times before the Board of Trustees to defend himself against charges by the White Citizens Council. The charges ranged from practicing Communism to desecrating the memory of a Confederate general.

Later this month, NAACP lawyer Herbert Hill will complete the Y’s three-part program on desegregation.

Former Professor To Speak Sunday

Dr. Albert C. Winn, Professor of Theology at Louisville Seminary, will speak at vespers Sunday. Winn served as a chaplain in the Navy during the Second World War. He is a graduate of Davidson College and returned to his alma mater as a professor of theology in 1946. Winn holds a BD and a ThD from Union Seminary in Richmond. There will be one other guest speaker this year. Dr. Albert Wells, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Laurinburg, will speak next Sunday. The final vespers service of the year will be conducted by Will Terry.

Precinct Residents May Register To Vote

“Democrat or Republican?” is the question that will face any who may register tomorrow to vote in the North Carolina primary and general elections. Registrations will be held from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. at the Davidson Town Hall for all non-registered Davidson residents of voting age. Requirements for registration include the following stipulations: The registrant must be 21 by Nov. 3, 1964 (20-year-olds may register and vote in the May 30 primary if they will be 21 by Nov. 3). In addition, the registrant must have been a legal resident of North Carolina for one year and of the precinct for 30 days prior to Nov. 3. He must also be able to read and write a few sentences from the United States Constitution. If a person registers as an Independent, he may not vote in the primary. Otherwise, he has a choice of political parties, Democratic or Republican. Note should be made that only military personnel may vote by absentee ballot in the primary election May 30 which falls two days after the final exam day.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Fredericksen
Meeks
Blackwell
Hogan
Partridge
Bliss
Hopkins
Secor
P. Wheaton
Clark
McGavock
Woods
Fogleman
Martin, D. G.
Workman

MOTHER'S DAY

Like your mother? Want to stay in good? Have a beautiful FRESH orchid and card delivered the day before. Satisfaction guaranteed. See Irvine Welling or Woody Coleman, 103 Belk.

THE MOST EXCITING NEW MOVIE OF THE YEAR!

—Judith Crist, Herald Tribune

“ARRESTING AND...A fascinating switch...”

“ONE OF THE MOST IMPRESSIVE...”

“Amazing...Vivid...the crackling tension of one event. Constructed like a prizefight. In the middle rounds the opponents get down to serious slugging...”

“Superb political theatre—”

“MOVIES THAT'S COME OUT IN A LONG TIME. For straight courtroom drama, I don't think there's anything as exciting. No fictioneer, no pamphleteer, no dramatist could have created the characters that the camera recorded.”

“One of the most extraordinary documents of our time...fascinating...fantastic! A memorable achievement.”

—Judith Crist, Herald Tribune

“As gripping as any courtroom drama, this avalanche of flim-flammery, hypocrisy, ruthless opportunism and lame patriotism still seems incredible, appalling, fantastic as it was. ‘POINT OF ORDER’ brings us back to the...original bizarre contest.”

—Newsweek Magazine

“Chilling, extremely valuable. If you have children, take them.”

“Have you no sense of decency, sir, at long last?”

“Stormy, tumbling, chaotic proceedings that broke McCarthy...that cynical, amiable, bully-boy able to impose his primitive terror on a free society. The critics will review the film, but it does not belong to the movie pages alone.”

—James A. Wechsler, New York Post

—The New Republic

“BRILLIANT! Possesses, like mescaline, some chemical means of heightening all one's senses without going so far as to induce hallucinations. A precious document of American history.”

—Brendan Gill, New Yorker Magazine

STARTS THURS., MAY 7

POINT OF ORDER!

A Film of the Army-McCarthy Hearings

VISULITE NOW SHOWING “HUD”