PAGE FOUR

Contract Offers Pay Increases

By LOUIS LESESNE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The ROTC Vitalization Act of 1964, recently signed into law by the President, has caused little stir on the Davidson campus. Aside from the pay increase, there is little difference from the present law. So far, approximately 245 juniors and seniors who were previously enrolled under the old contract have signed the new contract, with virtually all of the 15 remaining men expected to sign before the December deadline.

Some of those who do not expect to sign the new contract are seniors who plan to be married in the near future. An executive order exempting married men from the draft went into effect after members of the Senior Class had signed the contract during their sophomore year.

Some others have reconsidered their enrollment in the advanced program in relation to graduate school. Because of the length of most graduate programs, they have chosen not to continue the advanced program and accept a commission. By merely failing to sign the new contract, they withdraw themselves from the program.

During the two years of the advanced program, total pay will be approximately $1,100, including monthly pay, summer camp pay, and uniform allowance. Pay under the old program amounted to approximately $750. According to a letter sent to parents of all men enrolled in the present program, the only other major change is a clause stating that any man entering the contract for the purpose of defrauding the government or willfully evading the contract must forfeit any opportunity to obtain a reserve commission. He is then referred to his Reserve Board and is liable for two years active duty as an enlisted man.

Under the old law there was no provision for such cases; consequently, in about three percent of the cases in the United States, a graduate would refuse a commission, according to Capt. Charles C. Partridge of the ROTC Department. However, Capt. Partridge says that this has never happened at Davidson. Under the 1964 Act, one may withdraw from the program without penalty only for an approved reason, such as personal hardship, withdrawal from school, or physical disability.

The new law does not require any more active duty service upon graduation than does the present contract. Also, the provision for deferment for graduate work remains the same in the 1964 law. In a word, the new contract, aside from the pay raise, will have no effect on anyone who enters the program.

Piano Duo Nelson and Neal, Husband and Wife Team, to Appear

Nelson and Neal, duo-pianists, will appear on the Davidson College Artist Series at 8:15 p.m. Nov. 20, in Chambers Auditorium. Thirteen years ago Harry Lee Neal, from a Tennessee mountain family, and Allison Nelson, musical prodigy from Australia, met as fellow students at Philadelphia’s Curtis Institute of Music. In the following decade, Nelson and Neal traveled some 400,000 miles, playing their matched pianos for audiences throughout the country.

Nelson and Neal have played more engagements than any other two-piano team in the last ten years. They are the only two-piano team with a 50 percent return engagement record and the only two-piano team uncovering the lost four-hand masterworks. They have appeared numerous times on national radio networks, played with top symphony orchestras, and authored a popular book entitled "As You Pass."

Weekend Activities Set For Board Of Visitors

By TIM ROTHERMEL
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Davidson College Board of Visitors will meet Friday and Saturday. The highlight of the meeting will be an informal talk of comments and reminiscence by the Hon. Frank Porter Graham, United Nations Representative for India and Pakistan, and former President of the University of North Carolina, at the Board Dinner Friday evening.

Other scheduled events on Friday are: at 2:30 p.m., the annual meeting of the Board at the Cunningham Fine Arts Center; also at 2:30, a hospitality hour for the wives of Board members; at 8:15 p.m., a visitors’ seminar on the problems and progress of the college. After breakfast there will be a choice of two visitor’s seminars, one dealing with a demonstration of the audio-visual laboratory, directed by Mrs. Henry T. Lilly. A second morning visitors’ seminar will be the choice of Prof. W. G. Workman speaking on “Implications for Religion from Current Psychology” or Prof. R. D. Kaylor’s talk, “The New Testament and Mythology.” In the afternoon the Board of Visitors will attend the Davidson-Lafayette football game.

There will be 66 members of the Board of Visitors present for the meeting this weekend, including nine members of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees, who serve on both boards. Twelve newly elected members will be on campus. They are: James H. Barnhardt, Charlotte; William M. Barnhardt, Charlotte; Dr. Griffith, Charlotte; Mrs. Howard Holderness, Greensboro; P. S. Knox, Thomson, Ga.; Dr. Charles E. S. Kraemer, Richmond, Va.; Dr. S. Wilson Moore, New York, N.Y.; W. Stanley Daniel, President of Stockton, N.J.; Mrs. Richard C. Burts; the other members are: Prof. of Mathematics, University of Virginia, Dr. E. J. McShane, Charlottesville, Va.; and Beavmont Whitton, Charlotte.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Reread After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night: Burts, Gable, Lilly, Swicord, Martin, J. G. Currie, Meetze, Welsh, Brown, L.C., Daggy, Gill, Mitchell, Young, White, L., Driesell, Griffin, Schenck, Patterson, W. B., Epes, Kelton, Scott, Williams, G. M., Fraley, Labban, Stone, Mrs. Nicholls.

Student Leaders Give Drinking Poll Results

Will Jackson, Fred Sackett, and Charlie Dibble submitted the results of the Student Council drinking poll and offered suggestions as to a more realistic approach to the situation by the Student Council, the Honor Court, and the faculty and administration at the monthly faculty meeting Tuesday.

The poll was taken on Oct. 20 through the fraternities, but the Student Council feels that it is a realistic projection of the entire student body and is accurate enough to serve as a guide toward student attitudes. The poll itself was broken down into three questions. The poll and its results are as follows:

1. Do you drink? Yes 81 percent (350); No 19 percent (82).
2. Have you ever possessed alcohol on campus? Yes 70 percent (302); No 30 percent. This 70 percent of the entire number of students polled. When it is translated to a percentage of those who drink, the result is 86 percent.
3. Have you ever possessed alcoholic beverages in the dorms? Yes 30 percent (185); No 70 percent. This is of the entire number of students polled, and the translated number of those who drink who have possessed alcoholic beverages in the dorms is 46 percent.

The poll includes only the upper three classes of the fraternities, and a total of 432 answered the poll. For comparison, we look at the results of a poll taken by THE DAVIDSONIAN in October, 1962. This poll included the results of 540 students.

1. Do you drink? Yes 86 percent.
2. Have you ever kept alcoholic beverages on campus? Yes 37 percent. This was the extent of the questions asked at that time.

Under the present rule, there is no distinction made between having alcoholic beverages on campus and specifically having them in the dorms as opposed to having them in an automobile. From the poll, it can be concluded that the rule is being violated on both accounts.

The faculty received the report of the student representatives and deferred any action or discussion until the meeting on Dec. 1.On music and drama at Davidson; at 9:30 the Board. On Saturday there will be a breakfast at the Morrison Room of the College, followed by discussion with President D. Grier. The purpose of the Board of Visitors is to forward suggestions and recommendations regarding the welfare and future development of Davidson College. Besides this duty, members are ambassadors of goodwill for Davidson in their home communities and in their business relations. At the official meeting of the Board of Visitors on Friday, members will meet with representatives of the faculty and administration.

Scripts 'n Pranks fall issue will come out on Nov. 30, according to Pete Crow, editor. Crow revealed that the issue would contain a shocking expose of a Davidson faculty member. This type of yellow-press sensationalism will be used to try to create more interest by the readers than has been evident in the past. In an attempt to add status, this Scripts 'n Pranks will contain a three-page, full-length picture of Davidsonian editor Charles Dibble lying in bed. This will also attempt to compensate for the embarrassment which Crow received when he forfeited the annual croquet match to Dibble. Crow emphasized the fact that the Scripts 'n Pranks is purely a student humor magazine and will not compete with the newly formed serious literary magazine. He stated, “Both are needed because one magazine cannot do both humor and serious literature.” Obviously, Scripts 'n Pranks cannot. This year’s Scripts 'n Pranks will follow last year’s precedent by publishing three issues, the last one by next year’s elected editor. The winter edition will contain the work of the winner of the Freshman writing contest. The deadline for this contest is Dec. 16.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Frank H. Caldwell, Charlotte; Lee A. Chambliss, Key Biscayne, Fla.; James A. Dunlap, Brodie S. Gainesville, Ga.

THIS IS IT! The Most Important Picture of the Year
starring HENRY FONDA, DAN O’HERLIHY, WALTER MATTHAU
NOW PLAYING at 1:05, 3:30, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25
CENTER 1427 E. Morehead, CHARLOTTE

You Should See the NEW ARRIVALS
Sero SHIRTS
Traditional BELTS
Ancient Madder TIES
Bostonian SHOES
at
MOORESVILLE House of Famous Brands
The Hub

Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1964

PICKED 22 Selected For Who’s Who

Twenty-two Davidson Seniors have been selected for recognition in “Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities” by the faculty-student committee.

Hugh Allen, a psychology major from Winston-Salem, is chairman and former recorder of the Honor Court, a freshman hall counselor, and a member of the wrestling team. He is secretary of Phi Delta Theta.

John Barrow, a psychology major from Winston-Salem, is Freshman Advisor, president of Phi Delta Theta, and served last year as president of the Junior class. He is currently a member of ODK, the Student Council, and D-Club, and runs track and cross country.

Dick Bates, a history major from Miami, Fla., is vice-chairman of the Honor Court and a Dana Scholar. A member of Kappa Alpha Order, Bates headed the 1962 Freshman Council.

Alex Bernhardt, an English major from Lenoir, is president of Kappa Sigma. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon, the Male Chorus, and won the Fine Arts Festival Award for his songwriting.

Steve Bunch, a history major from Chapel Hill, is president of the College Union. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta and APO.

Lanier Burns, a pre-medical student from Knoxville, Tenn., is president of the YMCA. Burns, a past pledge trainer of Sigma Chi, is a DMS and Lt. Colonel in ROTC.

Don Davidson, a pre-medicine major from Salem, Ohio, is a member of the basketball team and captain of the baseball team. A member of Kappa Sigma, Davidson serves on the Student Council as secretary-treasurer of the Senior class.

Steve Davidson, a history major from Palm Beach, Fla., is a member of the Honor Court and past vice-president of the YMCA. A freshman hall counselor, Davidson is a member of the D-Club, the football and swimming teams, and Phi Delta Theta.

Charles Dibble, a social science major from Sumter, S.C., is editor of the Davidsonian. He is president of the Conservative Club and Phi Literary Society, and a member of the Young Republican Club. He also serves on the YMCA cabinet and staff of Quips and Cranks.

James Ferguson, a pre-medicine major from Laurens, S.C., is ROTC Brigade Commander, Scabbard and Blade, and DMS in ROTC. He is also vice-president of Kappa Sigma, a member of the Male Chorus and YMCA.

Rufus Hallmark, a history-French major from Fort Bragg, holds a McConnell Scholarship, and is president of the Male Chorus. He is on the staff of the Davidsonian, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Eta Sigma, and Lingle Manor.

Steve Heckard, an economics major from Winston-Salem, is a member of the football and baseball teams, and president of the D-Club. A member of Kappa Sigma, Heckard is a past IFC representative.

Tommy Heffner, a pre-medicine major from Newton, is former secretary-treasurer and vice-president of the Student Council, and serves on the current council as vice-president of the Senior class. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, Phi Eta Sigma, D-Club, APO, and the cross country team.

Will Jackson, a psychology major from Decatur, Ga., is president of the Student Council, and served as vice-president and president of the Sophomore Class on past councils. A member of the football team and D-Club, Jackson is also a DMS in ROTC.

Zach Long, a math major from Rockingham, is editor of the 1965 Quips and Cranks. Vice-president of the College Union, Long is a member of Lingle Manor and the Chapel Choir.

Charlie Marshall, a pre-medicine major from Lancaster, S.C., is president of Kappa Alpha Order and a member of the Student Council. A member of APO, he served last year as vice-president of the Junior class.

Ronnie Reese, a psychology major from Tampa, Fla., holds a McConnell Scholarship. A member of the Honor Court, Phi Beta Kappa, and Alpha Tau Omega, Reese is also president of ODK and runs track and cross country.

Fred Sackett, a history major from Keystone, W.Va., is a Dana Scholar and president of the Senior class. A member of the Student Council and Sigma Phi Epsilon, he serves on the YMCA cabinet, is secretary of the IFC, and is Davidson’s delegate to the NIC.

Bruce Swain, a pre-medicine major from Clarkesville, Ga., holds a Dana Scholarship, and served on the Student Council. Swain is president of Phi Gamma Delta, and a member of the soccer team, the D-Club, and APO.

Barry Teague, a math major from Madisonville, Ky., is a member of the basketball and baseball teams. Teague served as IFC representative from Sigma Chi, and is a member of the Beaver Club and a Captain in ROTC.

Rick von Unwerth, a history major from Augusta, Ga., is president of the IFC. An associate editor of the Davidsonian, he is a member of ODK and Alpha Tau Omega.

David Walker, a pre-medicine major from Brentwood, Tenn., holds a McConnell Scholarship, the Stowe Award, and is a member of Phi Beta Kappa. A winner of the Alumni Association Medal, Walker is vice-president of ODK, vice-president and pledge trainer of Beta Theta Pi, and is a member of the Student Council and the wrestling and football teams.

SHOWS 2-4-6-8-10
The Greatest Violence that man can do to EASY TO GET TO
ONLY 1½ MILE EAST OF THE COLISEUM
FREE SMOKING LOUNGE
Bush Wilson Lin.