FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1964 * THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

BELLS TOLL FOR DOLE

Bill Tate, Wake Forest’s football savior, recently said of his occupation as a coach, “The only basis on which you
are a success in this business is winning.” One may or may not agree, but such a philosophy has transformed
a Wake Forest team that was little more than a joke last year to a winner of five games and
a team capable of beating anyone in the Atlantic Coast Conference. I don’t know whether or not Davidson’s problem has
been the coach — time will tell. But it was evident that something had to be done. Davidson can win
and I think we will win. It had been evident for some time that a change was forthcoming and that
somebody might get hurt. It may have been necessary, but I can’t help but be sorry that a nice person
like Coach Dole had to be hurt. That he is generally liked by almost everyone is no misrepresentation — any
criticism of him I’ve ever heard has been of his coaching or his recruiting program. I’ve never heard anything against
him personally. As a personal representative of Davidson, he was a credit to the college... but he didn’t win. Leo
Durocher said that “Nice guys finish last” — anyway, some do. I hope Dole finds a position he likes. He’s
not finished yet.

LOOSE ENDS...

The Student Council and Athletic Director Tom Scott worked out an arrangement yesterday whereby the gym will be kept open
for student use on weeknights for the entire year. Evidently, all campaign promises aren’t hollow — Bill Council promised in
his platform last year to try to obtain such an arrangement and was instrumental in working out the plans with
Dr. Scott. Both deserve credit for fulfilling a need that has existed for a long time.

Offensive halfback Steve Smith and defensive end Pack Hindsley recently received honorable mention on the All-Southern Conference football team. I
guess it is a result of not playing but four conference games, but both should have made All-Conference, especially since
an offensive team and a defensive team were selected. There isn’t a better defensive end than Hindsley in the conference,
and it’s hard to justify omitting the conference’s leading ground gainer from its all-conference squad.

All-Conference teams have been chosen since 1933, but guard Dick Johnson, who made the squad in 1936, is the only
Davidson player ever to have received the honor. Smith and quarterback Steve Heckard did make the Scholastic All-Conference team. A
“B” average is necessary for nomination to the squad and Davidson led the conference with 18 nominations.

Conference basketball teams have dropped 8 of their 10 games against outside opponents so far — it looks like they’ll
have trouble maintaining the 49-35 record they compiled against non-members last year.

Rated fourth in the nation by the AP poll, third by UPI and Basketball Magazine, and as best in the
land by Sports Illustrated, the Davidson Wildcats are getting their full share of recognition this winter.

VMI won’t play us in football anymore, but they are probably glad they did this year. The Keydets’ Thanks-

HORACE “BONES” McKINNEY

“Come On... Gol Doggit”

Bones Provides Show In ‘Cat-Deac Contest

Maybe the new rule benching coaches was a restraint. But Horace (Bones) McKinney showed few inhibitions Tuesday night as he
watched his Deacons drop an opening lead and then the game to Davidson’s Wildcats, 95-88. Tall, lanky Bones was raring
to go: as the Davidson ROTC color guard marched onto the court to present the colors, the Wake Forest coach
entertained his team by mimicking the amateur soldiers with the McKinney “double time,” mumbling all the while “Let’s get this
thing on the road.” While his plump cohort — huffing and puffing — remained seated on the edge of the
bench, the quasi cheerleader was yelling, “He kicked the ball... come on... come on... defense, defense...” But as “defense, defense”
failed to keep the ‘Cats from taking the lead about midway through the first half, Bones shouted to his high
scoring star Bob Leonard, “Come on, Robert, rock and roll, gol doggit,” muttering more snarling phrases with each call of
the officials. His only distractions were two exchanges with spectators: After one of the seemingly incessant bad calls, a Davidson
matron shouted to the dismayed McKinney: “Simmer down, old boy, everybody gets a bad call every now and then.” Retorted
the coach, noticing her front-row seat: “Did you pay to come in here?” Moments later, in the midst of another
furious utterance, the coach detected a shout from yet another Davidson fan: “There’s nothing wrong with that call.” Wheeling about
with eyes flashing, McKinney bellowed: “You wouldn’t say that if you were watching the ball game!” Only once did the
Deacon coach display his most energetic trademark: with flaming determination he threw his towel straight up, glaring as it drifted
back down. Then realizing the laughter from behind him, he turned around, flashed a quick sheepish grin, and sat down
slowly. With five minutes left, Davidson had a 14-point lead.

Coach Bill Dole, after 13 seasons as head coach for the Davidson Wildcats, resigned his position last Friday afternoon. Dole,
who has not had a winning season since 1958, reportedly tendered his resignation under pressure. The action was preceded by
several weeks of speculation in the press about Dole’s future; the coach repeatedly stated that he would not resign. Announcement
of the resignation came shortly after Dole met with Athletic Director Tom Scott and President D. Grier Martin.

“The college has accepted Coach Dole’s resignation with regrets and full appreciation for his services during the past years,” announced
Dr. Martin. “The college has made provision for Coach Dole to continue as a member of the Davidson physical education
department staff through June 30, 1966, at present compensation.”

Dole said, “I have enjoyed my 12 years at Davidson, and I am proud of the boys I brought to
the school who are now doctors, lawyers, ministers, and successful businessmen.”

“I am not sure of my future. I would like to remain in the coaching field, but I have no
definite plans.”

A columnist for a South Carolina newspaper quoted Dole: “What I want now is an assistant’s coaching job. I am
not naive enough to think, with my record at Davidson, they’ll be jumping over any barrels to give me a
head coaching job. Head coaching jobs are given on records and people seem to believe in them. They don’t hire
on whether a man has the capabilities or not but on how many games he has won or lost. I
know that so I know I’ll have to make an adjustment and become an assistant coach somewhere. I think I
could help any staff as an assistant. I love football coaching. It’s my way of life and I really don’t
know any other. An assistant coaching job, therefore, is my only alternative.”

Dole, 55, came to Davidson in 1952 after successful coaching in high school and at East Carolina College. He has
a lifetime record of 151-111-9, but he has been unable to produce a winning Wildcat squad since 1958. Since that
date his coaching mark has been 15-33-3, and the ‘Cats have won only one of their last 13 games in
the Southern Conference.

Davidson’s comparatively small number of available scholarships has been cited often by Dole as a hindrance to developing a winning
team. The total of 40 scholarships allotted football is smallest of any Southern Conference teams, and Dole felt that it
was not large enough to produce a strong competitor in the conference. On the other hand, there had been criticism
of Dole for “not making effective use of what he had.” It had been charged that his recruiting program...was not
maintained at a high level. Another complaint was that some of the best ball players on the squad were not
being pushed to give their best effort.

Wide Search Begins For Dole Replacement
By SAM BOYTE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The search is now on to find a replacement for Davidson’s former head football coach Bill Dole. “It's wide open,”
said Athletic Director Tom Scott, “and we're receiving applications.” Approximately 40 men, including both high school and college coaches, have
applied for the position. A majority have had experience as assistant coaches at various colleges. Scott is pleased with the
response: “There are some fine men applying. It'll be a problem choosing among all the applications.”

“Personally I'd like to keep it open a couple of weeks and then start screening in order to give everyone
a chance to apply. Some men in whom the college is interested will be contacted regardless of whether or not
they apply for the job.” All of the applicants are to be examined carefully before a decision is made. The
applications are being handled confidentially in order to avoid embarrassment to some who are applying without notification to their present
schools and to those who will eventually be rejected.

Among possibilities frequently mentioned is present assistant Tom Stevens who made known his availability for the position last weekend. Stevens
has been a member of the coaching staff at Davidson for the past eight years. As well as being head
baseball coach, he is chief scout for the football squad. He is in charge of the freshman football squad as
well as defense on the varsity. At UNC he lettered in football and baseball. After a successful professional baseball career
and a stint in the Air Force, he coached for two years in high school football before coming to Davidson.

Another candidate for the position is John Guiton, 35, now assistant freshman coach at Vanderbilt University. A 1952 graduate of
Davidson, Guiton earned letters in football, baseball, and wrestling. He coached freshman football and wrestling at UNC while earning an
MA there. Afterwards, he coached at Myers Park High School and Rocky Mount High School. In 1957 he moved to
The Citadel as freshman football coach, and from there he went to Vanderbilt in 1963 to handle the defensive backs.

Coach Shirley (Red) Wilson, 39, of Reynolds High School in Winston-Salem made public his application last weekend. After graduating from
Davidson in 1952 with letters in baseball and football, he began coaching at Selma High School. In 1952 he was
named Coach of the Year in Virginia for his work at Smith High School in South Norfolk. He led the
Henderson High School to the Eastern AA championship in 1957. At Reynolds, he has led the team to at least
a tie for first place in the Central 4A Conference in each of the past four years. Last Friday night
he capped his high school coaching career by winning the State 4A Championship.

Dr. Scott said that an application has not been received from Everett (Shu) Carlton of Gastonia. The Ashley High School
coach has been mentioned prominently as a possible replacement for Dole. A group consisting of College President Grier Martin and
representatives from the faculty Athletic Committee, the trustee Athletic Committee, the Wildcat Club, and the Student Body will advise in
the selection. Dr. Scott voiced the hope that a decision can be made “by the first of the year.” “The
committee,” explained Martin, “will act strictly in an advisory capacity. The final decision rests with the Trustees. However, I am
sure the committee’s opinion will receive serious consideration.”

Swimming Hopes Look Bright
“Yes,” commented swimming coach Dwight Shue, “I definitely feel that barring unforeseen happenings we will have a stronger swimming team
than last year’s, even though we'll be relying a great deal on sophomores.” Shue went on to say that since
only one man, Bud Fry, on the 1963-64 team was a senior, the tankmen will be able to begin the
season on Monday, December 7, with a certain amount of experience. Concerning individual members, Coach Shue stated, “Steve Barden and
Jim Grey should do pretty well in the freestyle distance events, the 200 and 500 yd. races; Randy Hughes and
Richard Holt will be swimming the individual medley for us and should turn in good performances if their strength can
last throughout the event. Butch Falligant has had a good deal of swimming and diving experience, and we're counting on
him to do most of the diving for us. Jim Stokes will be entered chiefly in the shorter races, such
as the 100 yd. butterfly. John Alexander, Lloyd Davidson, Jim Downey, John Helm, and Mark Waldon will also be seeing
action for Davidson.”

In training for the past few weeks, the swimming team has been working to gain form and efficiency, according to
Coach Shue. “Thanksgiving recess interrupted our training schedule and threw our program for a little bit of a loss, but
I think that some hard work will overcome this weakness before the Clemson meet Monday.” Coach Shue expects to carry
about 13 to 14 men on the squad through the 14-meet season, in which five contests are slated for the
Davidson pool. The aqua-squad mentor says of the Southern Conference Swimming Tournament to be held during the first week in
March, 1965, “Last year we finished fifth out of six teams in this meet, but this year, with our experience
and good material, I'm looking forward to bettering that mark.”

Soph-Led Grapplers Tackle Pembroke
Pembroke College's wrestlers invade Johnston Gymnasium in the ‘Cats’ first match of the season tonight at 7:30. According to wrestling
Coach Charlie Parker, the Pembroke match will reveal quite a lot about the Davidson matmen that is at present only
speculation. Said Parker, “I don’t know much about Pembroke, and I’m not even sure about our own squad; they haven't
been tested yet. I'll find out Friday night.” A lot of men are sophomores, but they are inexperienced. One of
them hasn't even wrestled before. Monday night at 7 p.m., Davidson will host the Duke Varsity and Frosh in what
is certain to be a tough match for the Wildcats. The tentative lineup is: 123 pound class—Joe Buffington. 130 pound
class—Mike Bisard. 137 pound class—Jesse Sims. 147 pound class—Duff Armfield. 167 pound class—Terry O’Hair. 177 pound class—Jim Wilson. Heavyweight—Eric Nichols.

ATTENTION, SAILORS!
A new sport has arrived on the Davidson scene. Since its organization a few weeks ago, the Davidson College Sailing
Club has made material gains toward becoming the school’s first group to make real use of the facilities presented by
the lake campus. The club has been invited to join the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association (SAISA), and it is
expected that the members will vote to join at the next meeting—Wednesday, December 9, during chapel period in the Morrison
Room of the Union. The club plans to field a team for the spring race series of the SAISA, which
consists of four regattas at various member schools. All old members and interested students are urged to attend this Wednesday's
meeting.

LAKESIDE INN
(Under New Management)
We are eager to serve the students of Davidson College either individually or in semi-private or private parties.
Highway 1 South

Landmark For FINE FOOD ... Since 1946
© COLISEUM © FREEDOM VILLAGE
After The Game Before The Game
Enjoy Choice Steaks, Kabobs, Fancy Poultry, Fresh Seafoods, and Country Ham, Too!
FREEDOM VILLAGE COFFEE SHOPPE

Don’t Let Your Wardrobe be fouled out. Stay in the Game by Making Rush Wilson Ltd., Your One Stop Shop
for All Your Clothing Needs.
GREENVILLE, S. C.
Rush Wilson Ltd.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
