FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1964

Keynesian Economics Set In 'Changed Market Place’

BY DR. ERNEST F. PATTERSON
Professor of Economics

Changes in the material conditions that characterize a society produce a new economic problem or problems that require solving. The politicians, the businessmen, etc., through a process of trial and error arrive at policies and develop institutions that solve, more or less, satisfactorily, the problem or problems. Then someone who is completely, or largely, removed from the market place, the scene of action, and who can, therefore, better see the whole picture, is able to distill the essential elements from the great mass of data, and formulate a theory which explains to the men of action what they have been doing.

Thus Adam Smith, a professor of moral philosophy, and David Ricardo, a retired millionaire stock broker, were able to explain to the English manufacturer and businessman of 1800 what they had done to establish modern capitalism, and furnish them with a theory of economics that served more or less adequately for over 100 years as a basis for public economic policy and the source for economic philosophy and ideology.

When the material conditions that produced laissez-faire capitalism changed and new economic problems appeared, which were solved by the public economic policies associated with the American New Deal, John Maynard Keynes, a professor of economics at Cambridge University, produced in 1936 the economic theory that explained what had been done.

But there is one other thing that must happen, and that is that the society must accept the changed situation, the new institutions, as permanent and abandon any idea that the society can return to the “status quo ante.” Or more accurately, it must be accepted by those who, by virtue of their position and situation in the society, possess the real power.

The real economic and political power in this country is possessed by the bureaucrats who own and/or control the two or three hundred largest corporations. Their power is not absolute, by any stretch of the imagination. The new situation has been accepted as permanent by the majority of this power elite since the mid-1950s. Although as late as 1952, they believed that we could go back to the good old days, and they contrived to elect Eisenhower to do just that. He, or rather George Humphrey, his Secretary of Treasury, tried it, with almost disastrous results. Humphrey was persuaded by his fellow bureaucrats to return to private business, and he was replaced by Robert Anderson, who quickly reversed the field, so to speak, and the Federal Government experienced the largest peacetime deficit in history and the country was saved.

In 1960 Nixon and Kennedy worked both sides of the street, but both promised to continue the same public economic policy. So today most of the big business bureaucrats overtly or covertly support Johnson because they know that he is not going to attempt to repeal the New Deal, and they fear that Goldwater is just honest or ignorant enough to try it.

That Goldwater is aware of the reason for the lack of support from big business is shown by his answers to questions on economic policy — or rather answers written for him by Professor Milton Friedman of the University of Chicago and Professor Warren Nutter of the University of Virginia, published in the September 26th issue of Business Week. The answers almost sound as if Mr. Keynes himself had written them, but anyone with the least bit of savvy — and those hard-headed bureaucrats in G.M., G.E., Standard Oil, A.T. & T. are the savviest individuals so far as business and economics are concerned — knows darn well that Friedman, Nutter, et al., do not really believe in the validity of the Keynesian analysis, and that not only does Goldwater not believe in it, but he does not have even the foggiest notion of what it is.

In a democracy it is necessary for the general public to understand and accept the validity of the theory on which public economic policy is based before it can be used enthusiastically and uninhibitedly and thus efficiently and adequately, by those responsible for formulating and carrying out the policy.

This understanding and especially this acceptance, is a difficult process because it involves abandoning long-held and dearly cherished ideas and notions. Keynes was acutely aware of this difficulty, even for such intelligent people as economists and he warned his fellow economists of it in the preface to his general theory of unemployment, interest, and money: “The difficulty lies, not in the new ideas, but in escaping from the old ones, which ramify, for those of us brought up as most of us have been, into every corner of our mind.”

Every new idea has to face this difficulty and its originator can expect attack and criticism from his colleagues and his fellow citizens.

Both (political parties) are derelict in their duties. Both should be using the campaign to educate the public. Only Hubert Humphrey has the knowledge and understanding to do the job, and he is prevented from doing it by the necessity of having to answer the gutter fighter, Miller.

The economic issues of this campaign and what Americans must finally and irrevocably accept is that the federal budget is a technical instrument of national policy and not a character-building exercise; that tax cuts and public spending can stimulate enduring recovery; that government activity is equally as productive as private activity; that a strong economy is a better guarantee than fiscal orthodoxy of a sound balance of payments; and that, finally, “Keynes” is not a dirty word.

Professor of Economics

Since our last letter, we have completed our first academic year at Forman and what a new experience in teaching it has been! Not only is the general level of the students in terms of motivation, preparation and discipline a factor, as described in the last letter, but also the operation of the educational system. In this new, developing country, as you can imagine, things are somewhat “unsettled” — in the words of one of our Pakistani friends: “We are in the process of making our traditions.” Also, Forman is not autonomous but is an affiliated college of the University of the Panjab. Thus a professor does not know at the beginning of a course such things as exactly how long it will last (the university announces examination dates during the year), how many holidays will be declared by the authorities or simply taken by the students, how many tests he must give, how he will handle the course and what the external examiner will regard as important.

I can't help but daydream about what Forman could do if it could become autonomous and be adequately supplied with professors who have the philosophy of education that we have in the United States. It could then demonstrate what can be done in higher education and thus make a real contribution to the massive task of shaping up the educational system here — one of the many problems the country is dealing with in its economic planning.

As for the MA courses, the University syndicate has approved our offering them, beginning in September. The application must yet be approved by the government, which should be done without difficulty since the officials concerned are very much in favor of our helping to take care of the large demand for MA work in economics. The students taking the two-year master’s course are at about the stage of juniors and seniors in the United States, the BA degree being awarded here after two years of degree work.

We have now been able to see in this developing economy representatives of the Christian Church at work as ministers, sociologists, agriculturalists, engineers, architects, physicians, nurses, technicians, teachers, etc. It is a real joy to discover what the Church has done and is doing for persons here. I have in mind a young fellow who is completing his degree work this year. Helped by the Church, he is striving to lift himself from a situation of poverty and illiteracy that is so typical for Christian families here. He says that if it had not been for the Christian missionaries, who began educating him when he was eight years old, in face of complete apathy on the part of his illiterate, poverty-stricken father, he would probably be pulling one of the man-drawn carts today. Instead, he plans to continue his study of economics and theology, and would like eventually to engage in a type of work that will make use of both of these subjects. I have suggested to him the area of developing cottage industry among the village people.

In our last letter, I indicated that I have been very much impressed with the significance of the socio-cultural factor in development and the difficulty of altering values and institutions that seem to perpetuate economic underdevelopment. Not only is the type of social structure significant, but also the characteristics of the human resources — the quality and the quantity. Quality encompasses the health, education and spirit of the population, while quantity refers to the total number, especially in relation to the quantity of other resources.

The significance of changes in the quantity can be seen in looking at what has happened in Pakistan. Between 1950 and 1963, the total real national income increased by more than 40 percent, but with an annual population increase of 2.2 percent, the real per capita income increased only 8 percent. The desirability of having a reduction in the birth rate accompany the reduction in the death rate, rather than follow it, is clearly seen. The Five-Year Plans make some provision for family planning, but it is relatively small. A feature of the plans is that the extremely limited resources are spread too thinly over all sectors in an attempt to satisfy everybody. In my opinion, the planners should boldly move ahead in certain areas that offer the highest returns — e.g., exploiting the abundant natural gas resources, and putting more into road improvement andLess into glamorous PIA aircraft, from enjoying their inalienable, constitutional rights. The propaganda disseminated night and day when one dials for “truth” on the telephone deplores desegregation, explains that when races mix there is bound to be violence, and that the children will not learn as well if they attend school together. The elementary school textbooks explain untruths about what Negroes do and do not want and what God wants: most importantly, to keep the races separated. The public library is for all practical purposes closed to Negroes and visitors from outside Mississippi, as browsing is not permitted and a policeman is at the door—without a library card, and this is obtained only upon the recommendation of two card-carrying residents. If we who visited there were asked to give in two words what the society is like and the atmosphere, I think we might answer “sacred” and “fear.” The culture is sacred and in contrast to secular; there is a formality and extreme courtesy on the part of the natives. There is also a nervous insecurity which spells fear. This was most apparent in the feeling of white men and women toward the Citizen Council and other white segregationists: they feared loss of job, loss of friends, loss of status, and reprisal for their children. A part of the same culture, the Negro population has many of the same fears as the white residents, but they have in addition the real fear for the very lives of members of their families. They live also in constant fear of property destruction. In and around one area, McComb, Mississippi, there have been twenty-four bombings and burnings within a few months. As far as I know, there have been no arrests, fines, and convictions except to arrest and fine the owner of the Negro property who may likely be accused of setting his own house on fire, even though he has no insurance. In Meridian, where I visited the Council of Federal Organization's community center, the workers were openly threatened with such taunts as “We'll do to you what we did to Mickey Schwerner.” The owner of a nearby shop always kept under surveillance all white persons who visited there.

The Negro Mississippians who have been courageous enough to permit themselves to be drawn into the Movement, and these are in the minority, have their deep commitment to Christianity to sustain them. The civil rights workers, both white and Negro, have a deeply religious attitude and I have never seen a more moral group of courageous young people, living almost puritanical, ascetic lives. They are in truth missionaries witnessing for Christ. There were other civil rights workers of the Hebrew faith who were dedicated to a summer of brotherhood and faith in God. They lived in sometimes extremely poor Negro households, sharing the greens, peas, and cornbread and devoting every waking moment to teaching in the COFO schools. Many of these young people belonged to the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee. Not only northern and western urban centers sent them, but, working in this committee are many white southerners, at least one of whom I know is a member of the South Presbytery. It was one of the greatest privileges of my life to be part of the Movement this summer and I am humble and proud that it is my generation which has helped rear and nurture these wonderful young college students who are healing and curing the sickness which pervades our society all over America. For an extremely factual and well-documented book about Mississippi, read "Mississippi: The Closed Society," by Dr. James W. Silver, Professor at the University of Mississippi.

Mrs. Fred Z. Hetzel
Washington, D.C.

Taylor

Dear Editor:

When I read Mr. Kimrey’s piece about the Rochester incident, carried in the September 19 issue of your always-interesting (let me say) The Davidsonian, in which he is rather critical of the white citizenry of that city, and in which he states that the trouble started with the police attempting to arrest an inebriated colored youth at a street dance, I wondered if Mr. Kimrey feels that the freedom which he craves for colored people includes freedom from arrest when discovered inebriated in public places.

Curt N. Taylor
Wooster, Ohio

To destroy an ideal? John Fitzgerald Kennedy was assassinated, but his spirit will continue growing as long as the spirit of peace and liberty exists in the hearts of free men. The paladin of liberty is dead. A noonday sun has been extinguished. Nevertheless, John Kennedy was not assassinated in vain. For that death, making the world think, is a new life. For that sacrifice opened a new road to truth. The President of the United States fulfilled his mission in this life. It is history that will judge his acts, but it is this young generation that will carry on his works. His life was that of a great man; his death transformed him into more than a man, into an everlasting symbol. Latin American youth, with that of the rest of the world, will raise the banner that fell before the assassin’s bullets. His life was that of a fighter, his weapons were ideals, his battlefield was the entire world, his goal peace and justice. Especially, in that Indian world which makes up so much of Latin America, will that thought of his endure: “To those peoples in the huts and villages of half the globe struggling to break the bonds of mass misery, we pledge our best efforts to help them help themselves, for whatever period is required—not because the Communists may be doing it, not because we seek their votes, but because it is right. If a free society cannot save the many who are poor, it cannot save the few who are rich.” In the heartfelt thanks of that pledge will be a monument as tall as the man himself, namely, that society for which he strived. The future and history are forged by great men of which Kennedy was one. We are here today to construct a better world upon the foundation he laid. Let us note a condition of his: When a group of people are educated to dominate and another group is taught to be dominated, only bloodshed can be expected. Let the youth of the world continue his work to show that ideals do not die, and that we, like him, must be willing to face death before abandoning our beliefs. The feeling of Latin Americans concerning John F. Kennedy can be summed up in one brief phrase: “Adios, los amigo.”

National Pundits Tremble As Davidsonian Predicts

BY MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Managing Editor

A long roll on the drums! A trumpet blast! Let Gallop and Roper beware! This week “The Davidsonian” begins its election forecasts. The editorial staff has rung no doorbells, made few long surveys, and has consulted no one in person. Nevertheless, it feels perfectly qualified to make its own unbiased predictions. The opinions expressed on this page are not necessarily the hopes of THE DAVIDSONIAN; they are the results of cross-compiling of polls and opinions from several newspapers and news magazines. Each week a different section of the county will have its present voter opinion analyzed by the editorial staff. The issue immediately preceding election day on November 4 will contain the final election predictions. The purpose of this is not to give a propaganda boost to any candidate, but rather to give a total analysis of the present political feeling to the willing or unwilling Davidson Weejun. Let the roll-call of the Southern states begin.

TEXAS: Most presidential candidates are expected to carry at least their home states—at this time Lyndon Johnson still holds a slight edge. The minority vote in Southern Texas seems certain to be almost totally for Johnson, and the major oil and natural gas magnates are said to be falling in line behind the President.

ARKANSAS: Johnson has this state in the bag right now.

LOUISIANA: The race is even here with Goldwater holding a big edge in the northern counties and Johnson gaining the support of urban New Orleans. How many of the Northern Louisiana Democrats cross over to vote for the Republican candidate will probably decide the winner.

MISSISSIPPI: This troubled state goes for Goldwater.

ALABAMA: Governor Wallace has his wish: to stand on both sides of the fence. Goldwater gets the largest popular vote and the unpledged electors jump on the winning side.

GEORGIA: The long record of support for the national Democratic ticket goes unbroken. Despite discontent over civil rights in the rural areas, the heavy Atlanta vote, plus an increasing Negro vote, join with the prosperous counties to give Johnson the lead.

FLORIDA: Goldwater's latest pronouncements have done little to solidify his position with this state’s heavy “oldster” vote. The Senator from Arizona holds a narrow lead at the moment, but a Johnson visit could turn the tide the other way.

SOUTH CAROLINA: Strom Thurmond’s defection carries just enough voters to give Goldwater a slight edge over Johnson. Civil Rights Act discontent and high emotions add to Goldwater's strength at present, but watch for a mud-slinging battle on the side between the defecting Democrats under Thurmond and the regular party-line Democrats.

NORTH CAROLINA: Refusal of Democratic nominee Moore to endorse the national ticket points up the schizophrenia of the Democratic Party here. While the Citizens-For-Goldwater organization is strongly built from many bases of support and the corresponding Johnson organization almost non-existent, fear of Goldwater's “farm program” down east and “font-lash” in the Piedmont urban areas make the struggle even here.

VIRGINIA: Edge slightly to Goldwater. Watch for a switch to Johnson in the next two weeks as rural Democrats have second thoughts.

Total electoral vote predictions in the South:
Goldwater—5 states with 51 electoral votes.
Johnson—3 states with 43 electoral votes.
Toss-Up—2 states with 23 electoral votes.

By Johnny Hart
Gubernatorial