**The Davidsonian**

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

CHRISTMAS TOURNEY TEAMS ANNOUNCED (See Page Five)

VOL. LII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1964 NUMBER TWENTY-EIGHT

College Trustees Send Faculty Oath Back To Committee For Reappraisal

Long Illness Claims Bradley D. Thompson

Professor Bradley DeForrest Thompson, member of the history department since 1942, died Monday after a long illness in a Mooresville hospital. Memorial services were held for Prof. Thompson Wednesday afternoon at Davidson College Presbyterian Church, led by the Rev. Curtis Harper, the church pastor, and the Rev. Will Terry, college chaplain, with a private interment service at the Mimosa Cemetery in Davidson. Pallbearers for the service were President D. G. Martin, Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, Dr. George Abernathy, Dr. J. Alex McGeachy, Dr. Malcolm Lester, Dr. Paul Marrotte, Dr. Chalmers Davidson, and Dr. James B. Woods, Jr.

Prof. Thompson, 54, was born in Charlemont, Mass., and graduated cum laude from Williams College in 1932 with a BA degree. While at Williams he received the G.F. Hurd Scholarship for four years, the Turner Prize in American History, and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. In 1952 he earned a master’s degree from Williams and Harvard University. He also did additional study at Columbia University. From 1938 to 1942 he was a teaching fellow in history at Harvard and a history instructor at Connecticut College for Women the second semester of 1942. Coming to the Davidson history department in the fall of that year, he received full professorship in 1957.

At Davidson, Prof. Thompson served as Foreign Student Advisor and spent several weeks in western Europe in the summer of 1959 working with the Richardson Foreign Student Program. A delegate to frequent national conferences of Foreign Student Advisors, he was made a member of the National Conference of Foreign Student Advisors. For the current academic year, he was a member of the second-year humanities program. In the spring tapping ceremonies of 1962, Prof. Thompson was inducted into ODK. Prof. Thompson was a member of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Prof. Thompson is survived by his wife, Mrs. Louise Borden Thompson; by his three sons, Bradley, Jr., a senior at Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa., Stuart, a student at Lenoir-Rhyne College, and Peter, a student at North Mecklenburg High School; by his mother, Mrs. Franklin C. Thompson of Concord, N. H.; and by two sisters: Mrs. Margaret MacKown of Concord, N. H., and Mrs. Richard Powell of Los Angeles, Calif. A scholarship fund for the Thompson children is being established. Friends are asked to send their gifts to the fund in care of Dr. D. G. Martin, Dr. Malcolm Lester, or Dr. Earl MacCormac.

Faculty Eases Underachievement, Opposes Racial And Religious Bias

By BUCK LAWRIMORE

In a special meeting Tuesday, the faculty determined by a 34-28 vote to continue the “underachievement” program but within a more generalized framework. In other action, the group passed a resolution discouraging racial and religious discrimination in campus organizations. The meeting was prompted by a deadlock on the “underachievement” issue at the regular faculty meeting on May 5. Unexpected by most professors was the action against discrimination, prompted for the most part by the college's recent admission of its first American Negro students, who are expected to enroll this fall.

Adopted by a voice vote, the following resolution was introduced in the form of two motions: “It shall be the policy of the faculty to discourage discrimination on the basis of race or religion by any organization which is officially recognized by the college as a legitimate campus organization.” The first motion treated discrimination on the basis of ‘race’ while a second motion dealt with discrimination based on the “Christian religions.” However, before the second motion was voted on, a substitute motion was offered deleting the word “Christian.” Dr. R. W. Gable, who introduced the original resolution, said, “The spirit of the thing was more a reaffirmation (of faculty feeling) than anything else.”

The new underachievement adoptions replacing the old system are as follows: “We wish to help each student realize his potential. In academic areas, there is reason to suspect that one is falling short of his potential if his grades are considerably below his predicted average or if one or more of his instructors judges that he is not accomplishing what he is capable of accomplishing. When there is reason to suspect that a student is not realizing his potential, the Dean of Students will confer with the student and his adviser. If, after these conferences, the Dean concludes that the student is falling short of his potential, then: (1) the Dean shall notify, in writing, the student and his parents of this conclusion and of its consequences; (2) the Dean shall arrange for individual counseling for the student and coordinate all efforts to improve his academic performance; and (3) should the student not show satisfactory academic improvement, in the opinion of the Dean, he shall be referred to the Executive Committee of the Faculty under the provisions of Section IV C 1 of these regulations.”

The teeth of the system lie in the re-written regulation (Section IV C 1): “Any student whose performance in the classroom indicates that he is not making a serious effort to do an acceptable quantity and quality of work may be required to withdraw from the College by the Executive Committee of the Faculty.” Implementation of the revamped “underachievement” program was left to the discretion of the Executive Committee.

Discussing the deadlock at the May 5 meeting, President Martin said: “The committee revising the program had presented its recommendations, but they were being accepted after several amendments had been made. Then Dr. (W. G.) Workman made this alternate proposal that we have now accepted. Well, we accepted it at the last meeting, too, but before the issue was over someone voted to do away with underachievement altogether and we became locked in a tie vote. Because it was so late and many people had left, I refused to break the tie, and we decided to meet this week instead,” he continued. “After a great deal of discussion we reaccepted Dr. Workman's proposal as the new underachievement program. Obviously, it loosens the restrictions on students, but it still leaves some incentive for them to make achievements according to their level of ability and for the College to ask the withdrawal of anyone who does not do satisfactory work.”

Martin pointed out, too, that the faculty stand on discrimination will be “discourage discrimination” and not “force removal of discrimination.” It was decided that beginning next September any student may take 19 semester hours of work regardless of his grades, and no less than 12 hours. But the increased year-end requirements will become effective only with the entering freshman class, much like increased fees and other requirements have been handled in recent years. The restrictions of academic probation will also disappear in September. The re-admission requirements to become effective with the entering freshman class area are: —Into the sophomore year, 25 semester hours, 22 quality points. —Into the junior year, 58 semester hours, 55 quality points. —Into the senior year, 90 semester hours, 91 quality points. The college will try to compensate for the absence of academic probation through counseling supervised by the Dean of Students.

Faculty Asks Trustees To Review Vow Again

Influenced by a conference of about 12 faculty members with key trustees Wednesday night, the Board of Trustees in a surprise move yesterday sent the faculty oath question back to their Education Committee. At the meeting of Feb. 19, the Trustees gave initial approval to a new faculty oath and a new method of administering it to professors. However, for the College Charter to be amended, the Trustees must approve new proposals at two consecutive meetings. After they adopt amendments at a meeting, it is usual procedure for the Trustees to rubber stamp them at the next one. After the last meeting of the board, D. G. Martin, president of the college, said, “The proposal to change the vow made by the Trustees today is tantamount to their approval at the next meeting.”

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of the board, said that the Trustees voted to send the whole oath issue back to the Education Committee because, “The fact is that nobody was really satisfied with the new vow.” Richards said that the prime reason the Trustees decided not to confirm the new oath, decided upon at the last meeting, was due to the conference the night before between a small group of professors dissatisfied with the new oath, himself, Martin, Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, Dr. James P. Hendrix of the Education Committee, Dr. C. L. Brown, and Rev. Albert McClure. “The conference influenced my own thinking on the matter, and I am sure it did other people's, too,” Richards said. Martin said that the main point brought up by the faculty members was their objection to the taking of any type of a public oath. “The impression that I got,” MartinContinued, “was that there would be much less objection to some other kind of commitment. They didn't think any type of commissioning exercise is appropriate for teachers who have been teaching here for a good while.” The commissioning service to which he referred was up in the amendment the Trustees refused to confirm. The key feature in the new oath proposal adopted initially at the last meeting was one of the services, which was to be held in the college church during a meeting of the Trustees. Those professors who were being offered tenure (permanent status as a member of the faculty) would have taken the following new oath:

Herbert Hill, labor secretary of the NAACP, is a man with closely-cut hair, dimpled chin, and sleepy eyes. At first impression, one wonders how such a youthful figure can speak with any authority on an issue of national concern. Obviously, no such doubts plagued the mind of Hill. In his three appearances on campus Monday, Hill spoke with some profanity and much arrogance about American racial problems. A considerable part of the initial audience punctuated the assembly presentation with low whistles, jeering, and ill-timed applause. Later, the speaker referred to his reception with the comment, “You are behaving like a bunch of fools."

“You may be inviting . . .” said Hill, “Race is a unique problem in America. From the beginning, there has been a contradiction. The official declaration that the black man was property has been a corroding quality in this country. The whole problem is coming to roost in this generation.” The labor secretary went on to note that we are now confronted with a colored generation that has a new image of itself. He predicted a tragic future, “if Negroes are left to fight this battle alone.”

Less than half an hour later, Hill answered a question with the remark, “The Negro community is going to decide what is best for the Negro community. This is the difference between yesterday and today.” The campus visitor said he had felt the 1954 Supreme Court decision would allow the Southern moderates to speak up. He lamented the failure of this voice to be heard and noted the development of “totalitarian thought control" in the South.

Hill repeatedly stated that the NAACP is opposed to any quota system in labor negotiations. “All we want is merit employment; there is nothing in title seven of the Civil Rights Bill before Congress that contradicts this stand." The NAACP, according to Hill, also does not oppose a literacy test—“as long as it is administered fairly.” In some parts of the South, he said, Negroes are asked such questions as, “How many bubbles are there in a bar of soap?” as a requirement for voting.

At the close of his first appearance, Hill voiced considerable alarm. “If I have failed to communicate to you, then I am very sad, for you are inviting catastrophe. The fundamental issue is whether or not this country has a future. We cannot exist with the dead traditions of a dead past.” Later in the day, his tone softened but the feeling remained that he was talking down to his audience. “When you think about it, the demands we make are not so revolutionary, so radical... We say the test of color is no longer a valid test. You have a right to hate anybody you damn well please but you don't have the right to hit them over the head.”

The labor secretary was not at all hesitant to speak on the public school situation. He felt that re-training was the obvious solution to the drop-out problem but lamented the inferior training given to Negro participants in such programs in the South. De facto segregation in the North, according to Hill, is accomplished by drawing district lines with the intent to segregate. “All we want to do is re-draw the lines with the intent of integrating.” This controversial subject has met with little success in the court for the NAACP, but Hill did not seem discouraged.

The speaker's comment in assembly that the rate of de-segregation since the 1954 decision has been “a trifle above one per cent in the deep South” drew applause from the audience. Hill retorted, “If you want to applaud—if that gives you any sort of gratification—then go ahead.” Asked by a student, “Aren't you an outside observer looking at our problems without qualification?” Hill replied, “Whether you like it or not, North Carolina is still in the Union. I've spent half of my working time in the South for the past 21 years.” Later, Hill requested that a student change his pronunciation of the name for the race from “Nigro” to “Negro.” “Is it so hard for you people to pronounce it correctly?” he demanded.

Herbert Hill liked to refer to the NAACP as the “true moderates” in the fight for racial equality. Inevitably, many students were reminded of CORE representative, James Farmer, who visited the campus last spring. His organization is generally considered more militant than the NAACP, its policies more likely to alienate a southern audience. But Farmer left behind with the students a feeling of respect, even admiration. Herbert Hill did not.

“Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior as revealed in the Holy Scriptures and will you endeavor to live a life consistent with this profession?

“2. Do you dedicate yourself to the vocation of teaching and will you seek faithfully to perform the task of teacher, to inform the minds of students and to create in them a thirst for knowledge, a love of wisdom, and a reverence for truth?”

With the Trustees’ refusal to adopt for the second time the new amendment, the old Charter regulations remain in effect for the time being. These are the ones which have drawn heavy fire so often in the past, and whose opponents have for so long demanded changes. The old regulations require that the following oath be administered during commencement to those who are being inaugurated as full professors:

“a. Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior and do you believe in the fundamental teachings of evangelical Christianity?

“b. Do you believe the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments to be the word of God, the only infallible rule of faith and practice?

“c. Do you promise in the humble reliance upon the grace of God, which comes by the Holy Spirit, so to live and teach as to give expression to the Christian faith?”

Opponents of this oath argued that it is open to many different interpretations, that the professors who take it should not be subjected to affirming their faith before a strange and often disinterested commencement audience, and that only a small number of the faculty—the full professors—actually have to take the oath.

Martin said that at the meeting Wednesday night, McClure made a proposal that seemed to please the majority of the faculty members in attendance. He suggested that the dean of the faculty and the president make sure of a man’s commitment to the ideals of the college when he is first hired. Martin added that not all of the Trustees agreed with this proposal. It will be one of the matters studied by the Education Committee.

(Continued On Page Six)

By HARRY CARR

Mrs. H. H. Gordon, the widow of a Presbyterian minister, will assume Mrs. J. B. Moore’s position as Supervisor of Dormitories this summer. A native of West Virginia, Mrs. Gordon presently serves as Secretary of the Meadows Presbyterian Church in Charlottesville, Va. She attended Jefferson Professional Institute.

Mrs. Gordon moved to Charlottesville at the death of her husband, Rev. H. H. Gordon, DD. She previously lived in Texas, Louisiana, Missouri, and West Virginia and is the mother of four children. In addition to her two sons enrolled at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, and University of Virginia, Mrs. Gordon has a daughter, 16, and another son, nine.

Of her decision to come to Davidson, Mrs. Gordon said, “After reading the editorial in THE DAVIDSONIAN about Mrs. Moore and the relationship between Davidson men and the Supervisor of Dormitories, I couldn't resist the opportunity when it was presented to me, to become a part of the Davidson community.” Before accepting the position, Mrs. Gordon visited the campus where she talked with numerous administrators. “Mrs. Gordon came so highly recommended and we were so favorably impressed by her," said Assistant to the President Everett Gourley in accounting for her selection over several other prospects. “She has all the attributes of a lovely lady,” Gourley went on. “She is capable and will be able to render the kind of service necessary.”

In addition to her personal qualities, Gourley listed another prime qualification as her experience in raising her three sons. Summing up administrative opinion, he said, “Everyone is very happy that Mrs. Gordon will be here next year.”

Mrs. Moore described her successor as a “very charming person... ideally suited for a personal relationship with the students.” Because of her enthusiasm for working with young people, Mrs. Moore feels that Mrs. Gordon will have the “same rapport that the students and I have enjoyed.”