The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Countdown For A Lost Weekend

Even if Spring Frolics should turn out to be a smashing success (assuming, of course, that there is a Spring
Frolics!), 1963-64 will certainly have been the year that Davidson had only two and one-half IFC Dance Weekends. The proposed
Mid-Winters (and, at this date, it is still “proposed!”) is just that meagre. The thought of really letting off steam
at Mid-Winters, usually a staying influence during Davidson's period of mourning—January exams, has been replaced, for many, with speculations about
where to go on February 7-9 to have his proverbial “blast.” W & L’s “Fancy Dress” and “Germans” at UNC
appear to be the most popular choices at this point, with New York or a trip to the mountains running
close behind.

What is the fare for Mid-Winters? Well, there is a top-flight basketball game (with Georgia Southern?) in the gym, after
which the horde of excited party-goers will (probably) dash headlong to the Chambers banquet hall (scene of the annual Parents’
Day dinner and similar social affairs) for a combo-party (exactly which combo will play is still unknown). The really big
“thing” (and we use the vernacular intentionally) of the weekend is a Saturday afternoon concert by Count Basie. It is
indeed fortunate that Union-master C. Shaw Smith is some-thing of a magician, or we would not even have Count Basie.
The quality of this so-called “entertainment” is enough to drive the weary Davidson Gentleman to seek his kicks at Bob
Jones University or St. Andrews or some other equally famous-for-parties institution. And who could blame him?

The responsibility for this beautiful example of ill-planning and lack of intelligent action lies solely with the IFC. For the
past four months this stellar group has operated with the efficiency of a drunk playing pick-up sticks. IFC meetings border
on mayhem, and this fact is a mere reflection of the character of the whole program, or lack of program,
as the case may be. And, at a time when fraternity systems in general are not exactly held in the
highest esteem in academic communities, this kind of inefficiency cannot be tolerated by fraternities’ advocates.

If the IFC cannot do its job, and it is increasingly apparent that it cannot—in matters other than social, as
well, then its authority should be delegated to a group that can handle the task—namely the Fraternity Presidents’ Council. We
would advocate serious contemplation of such a move—and soon!

Issues, Part 2

If the YMCA’s first semester Great Issues program wasn’t a screaming success, it was at least a good idea. The
series on Africa suffered primarily from topic choice and inarticulate speakers, so in drawing up a program for this semester,
two YMCA cabinet members have gone to great pains to correct both shortcomings in a continued effort to bring vital
issues to Davidson. Topics for the coming semester include Secularization, Politics, Arts, Sex, Psychiatry, and Problems of the Inner City,
and speakers are of the proven caliber of Will Herberg. On Tuesday, Feb. 4, the series will be opened by
a Dr. Scriven of the University of Indiana, who will speak on “The Non-Existence of God.” That night he will
engage in a discussion of the same with Dr. Earl MacCormac, professor of philosophy here. Such a discussion represents the
very thing we have requested at length on several different occasions—Davidson professors making education literally come alive by entering into
discussions or debates with outsiders who stand for controversial points of view. We still have fond memories of what Dr.
Patterson did (or didn't do) to Fulton Lewis, III, and of what Dr. Goodykoontz definitely did as he stormed down
the aisle that night in Chambers Auditorium, not to mention the time Dr. Rhodes and Co. took on Leon Uris
to the cheers and boos of various partisan groups in the audience. The MacCormac-Scriven discussion should be less violent but
no less interesting, and in commending the YMCA for their perseverance, we look forward to more programs of this nature.

Catholic: Anti-Catholic Prejudice Exists Here

Dear Editor:

Religious bigotry exists at Davidson College. As a Roman Catholic and member of a very small religious minority on campus
I feel somewhat qualified to make this statement. In the three and one-half years that I have been at Davidson
I have often been amazed and shocked at the religious attitude of the students. The dominant attitude of the students
toward their own religion seems to be one of indifference and sometimes even hostility. Their attitude toward non-Protestant Christianity, and
particularly Catholicism is, I have found, intolerance and scorn. Intelligent criticism is not, of course, at all offensive. But the
criticism often heard here is usually based on absurd misconceptions. More than once I have had to explain that Papal
infallibility does not mean Papal impeccability, that the Catholic Church does not oppose scientific investigation, and even that Catholic sermons
are delivered in the vernacular, not Latin. Just recently I heard a student remark that Mrs. John F. Kennedy's religion
would prevent her being able to remarry. If I should say that Baptists worship John the Baptist or Lutherans, Martin
Luther, Protestants would be shocked. Some of the remarks I hear about Catholicism are comparable to this or worse!

What is really shocking is that there appears to be very little effort made at Davidson to correct these misconceptions.
Indeed at times it appears as if there is a deliberate effort on the part of a very few to
distort the facts about the Catholic Church. For example, I remember hearing once a professor relate that there had once
been a female Pope, and that her sexual identity had become known when she suddenly gave birth to a child
while in a Papal procession. This story about a female Pope has not been held by any reputable historian (Protestant
or otherwise). It is merely a fable—but it was presented to our class seriously as a true historical fact. And
this is not the only time that the facts have been distorted or poor taste displayed. Let me hasten to
add, however, that the overwhelming majority of Davidson professors are not guilty of this sort of thing.

It seems strange too that Davidson College has shown no interest in the current Catholic-Protestant dialogue and the Ecumenical movement.
At Harvard, Yale, Princeton and other leading educational institutions Catholic and Protestant scholars have made real progress in mutual understanding.
Even nearby Belmont Abbey College contributed to the movement for Christian unity by having as a guest speaker Evangelist Billy
Graham. But, as far as I know, Davidson has never invited a Catholic theologian to speak on campus. Except in
the Westminster Fellowship there has never been anything said about the Ecumenical Council, which many scholars have predicted will be
considered in the long view of history one of the most important events of our century. Surely, one would expect
that Davidson College, a Christian institution, would participate in the world-wide movement to restore Christian unity. I do not expect
a Presbyterian college to grant the Catholic Church special favors and consideration. I do expect, however, the proper amount of
fairness, decency and scholarly attention which is worthy of an institution such as Davidson seeks to be.

Bill Lynn

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Subscribe to the DAVIDSONIAN. Semester, $1.50

NAME

ADDRESS

CITY

—Bill me later

The Davidsonian Box 218 Davidson, N. C.

—Enclosed $1.50

Ratliff Views Pakistan: Poverty, Student Riots

Ed. Note: Dr. Ratliff, Professor of Economics at Davidson, is currently on leave to serve a three-year term as Professor
of Economics at Forman Christian College in Lahore, West Pakistan. In the following, he describes his first few months in
Lahore.

Having been hurtled to the other side of the world so rapidly, it took us a few days to become
oriented. I was awake when everyone else was asleep and wide awake when they slept—and I really became wide awake
the first night when the minaret issued forth a call to prayer a block away over the loudest public address
system I’ve ever heard. It is taking longer than a few days to become adjusted to the culture, the so-called
cultural shock being quite real. I think it is indicated to some extent by an incident that took place shortly
after we arrived. Mrs. Ratliff and I were standing in the dust of a village watching the activity and she
turned to me and asked, “Are these people really human beings?” All the written descriptions and pictures of underdeveloped economies
are inadequate in conveying the situation to one—he simply has to see, feel, experience and smell it.

It is too soon for me to be drawing conclusions concerning economic development problems, but I am becoming more and
more impressed with the significance of the socio-cultural factor in development. The way the values and institutions here seem to
perpetuate economic underdevelopment slaps you right between the eyes. Economies such as this must develop their natural resources and acquire
capital to develop, but societal relationships therein must undergo change, and the last is probably the most difficult to achieve—certainly
it’s a slow process.

Persons seem to want positions but don’t want to assume responsibility and work in them, just as students definitely want
degrees but most definitely don’t expect to work for them. Last spring they staged a “walk out” because they considered
the examination questions to be too difficult, and the University is allowing them to take another exam! Speaking of student
actions, I have already experienced a student riot. After the Vice Chancellor of the University expelled a “student” (he had
attended two classes in the past year ... somewhat of a professional student politician, running for student offices and attempting
the examinations eachyear), a group went to his office, waved a bloody handkerchief in his face, and ransacked the place,
demanding that an ordinance giving University officials power to expel students be rescinded. "This erupted into widespread demonstrations, and the
police stepped in with tear gas, etc.

St. Anthony Goes To College

The Medical College students reported in a mimeographed statement three students (one from F. C. College) killed, and this really
fanned the flame. Wearing their black armbands, the students gathered for a memorial service only to find the “deceased” also
in attendance. A local newspaper that carried accounts of the killings was shut down by the government, which accentuated the
unemployment problem. At any rate, classes were suspended and the students sent home for two and a half weeks.

My duties are varied: teaching economic theory at Forman, teaching general economics to graduate students in Panjab University’s Institute of
Education and Research, working on library needs for M.A. courses at Forman, and studying Urdu. I find that the University’s
Social Science Research Centre is doing some good work on the economic and sociological aspects of the village, which is
so important in this underdeveloped economy.

Teaching here is quite different: in general, the undergraduates’ level of preparation, attitude toward study, motivation, classroom attention, and honesty
in taking tests are disappointing. I am not sure what factors are responsible, but I believe a major one is
the examination system employed in the country. Fortunately, I do have a few really good students, who seem to be
interested in learning economics and not just the material covered in the somewhat out-of-date syllabus. Most of them, however, share
the attitude of the one who came up after class to ask, “Sir, that diagram you used is not in
the text, is it?” I answered, “No, but it illustrates material covered in the text.” His reply, as he dismissed
the diagram from his mind and departed: “It's not covered by the syllabus then.”

This is the first time Mrs. Ratliff or I have ever studied a foreign language “on the spot.” It’s fun
to try to speak Urdu with Pakistanis—they delight in our trying to use their language and practically fall over us
helping us learn new words. In many situations, one is forced to use whatever Urdu he can command, which is
undoubtedly the way to learn to speak a language.

One characteristic that I suppose all North Americans notice is the local concept of time. A Pakistani will refer to
days as we refer to hours or even minutes. While in Karachi recently to clear our baggage, I was informed
by a customs official, “You'll receive the import permit in five or six days,” as if he were saying five
or six minutes. There I was 800 miles away from home and my work; I went down expecting to stay
one or two days. I was there ten! To cash a check at the bank takes 20 to 30 minutes:
one man logs the check in a book, numbers it, and gives the customer a token showing that number; the
check then goes by peon to the bookkeepers, who debit the customer's account; finally, it goes to a cashier, who
calls out the number and pays the holder of that token. As you see, the elaborate system of checks and
controls instituted by the British is still being used.

Mentioning North Americans, I am sorry to have to report that pages from Lederer and Burdick are reenacted practically verbatim
here. President Kennedy's assassination was a stunning shock to us, as I am sure it was to you. The reaction
of the Pakistanis to his death manifested the fact that he was a world leader; it is clear that they
regard his passing as a loss to themselves and all other peoples who are striving for improved economic welfare and
social justice. We awoke Saturday morning to the “unbelievable” news, classes were suspended that day, and Monday morning a memorial
service was held in the College Chapel with an overflow crowd in attendance. We stayed up until 2:00 a.m. Tuesday
listening to the short-wave broadcast of the funeral—through the nervously blown taps: truly, taps heard ‘round the world!

Charles E. Ratliff, Jr.
Professor of Economics
Forman Christian College
Lahore 16, West Pakistan

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Communication Falters: Ferris

Dear Editor:

The recent action of the faculty on underachievement has raised the dusty heads of several old questions. Can any rule
or legal threat force a student to improve his grades? Even if grades improve due to the rule, are they
a proper indication of achievement? How accurately are we evaluating our students, for instance, when we label the winner of
last year's Vereen Bell award for creativity an “underachiever?”

Something is lacking in our educational system at Davidson. Communication is seldom established between students and faculty. Both students and
faculty have lately expressed a sincere concern about our methods of teaching. The younger faculty members especially feel that rules
cannot force students to change their study habits; that the real problem lies partly in their own methods of teaching.
If their material is made interesting, students will take their own initiative in study.

One student said that his so-called “apathetic” fraternity brothers are made so because of the dry, uninteresting material of the
classroom. “I can’t believe some of my professors,” he said. “They don’t seem human. If I knew them as persons,
I could get interested in the material, but they feed us facts like machines. Why should I believe in a
course if they don't?”

This lack of communication between faculty and students is a major problem of our education here. I speak from the
student’s side of the fence, but I'm sure the faculty has the same impression of us. Teaching class after class
of sleepy, apathetic students must make a professor wonder if we have any spirit left in our souls. Our educational
system is so formalized that it has split us into two groups—faculty and students. You faculty come to class in
a coat and tie, deliver a load of facts from a podium and leave. We scribble our notes for an
hour and rush out the door when the bell rings. This is no education. Our roles here are so regimented
that we have lost sight of our ultimate purpose—the pursuit of Truth. In light of this purpose, we all stand
as children. You faculty serve as moral and intellectual leaders because you have more experience and education than we, but
you are still human beings with the same frustrations and desires as your students. Why can’t we realize our common
purpose and open ourselves to each other with a deeper understanding than that of a cold classroom lecture?

Our growth here should be toward the "whole man.” We cannot achieve this goal in a stilted classroom atmosphere that
allows only superficial contact between professors and students. An education is fruitless without a depth contact between individuals. We must
speak to each other as persons, not as machines delivering or memorizing facts. The quality of humility necessary to establish
this understanding is sadly lacking at Davidson. We lack the courage to question ourselves and admit our weaknesses. It is
time that we as students and faculty stop playing our classroom roles and honestly seek the true purpose of an
education.

Bill Ferris

IFC Midwinters Plans Draw Fire

Dear Editor:

Not since the IFC brought Stan Reuben to the campus last year have we experienced such heights of boundless elation
as in the anticipation of the forthcoming concert by Count Basie. It warms our hearts to see the compassion of
hard-working Haynes and his cohorts in allowing an old colored man to gain popularity with the college set. We are
sure that this will be an unforgettable weekend and with luck and Kelly’s ability to draw top name stars perhaps
we will have a Saturday morning concert with Lawrence Welk and a Sunday morning concert with the Mormon Tabernacle Choir
at Spring Frolics.

Johnny Clark
Bill Briggs
