Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief
PAGE TWO
CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Apologia

In a letter which appears elsewhere on this page, two freshmen have sought to set forth a policy for our harassed sports editor. This letter coupled with the coolly reasoned suggestions offered by several football players, prompts us to comment...

School spirit is the natural expression of pride in an institution. Davidson—as all schools—has its fair-weather fans. And in fair-weather fans we find little school spirit. But in a smaller group of supporters we find a sincere expression of true enthusiasm.

It is always easy—and delightful—to join in the jubilation that accompanies victory. Triumph facilitates expressed pride in a school. In defeat, however, there is no jubilation, there are no cheers: And the ranks of a team’s “supporters” grow slim as the fair-weather fans shrink back. But there are ways that true boosters can express their feelings. Most important is loyalty, a natural action of the true fan. The supporter can look to bright spots of the season. The supporter can look to hopes for better days. And in using this word a distinction must be made: we are speaking not only of a sincere wish but also of a reasonable wish. We are not speaking of reckless optimism, an optimism that requires prostituting one’s integrity in a vain attempt to put off what appears to be the bleak certainty of facing an unsuccessful season.

THE DAVIDSONIAN allows its columnists extensive freedom: writers are confined by only the criteria of truth, good taste, and the law of libel. We feel our sports editor has supported the football team. He has expressed his opinion that the Wildcats have a good chance of winning three football games. He has expressed his desire that the team win even more games. We support his right to express his opinion free from intimidation. And we join him in aspiring for a season that proves his predictions wrong and satisfies the desires of all Davidson supporters.

Union Reunion...

With the unified bookstore operation, the college business office anticipates a unity of purpose. Business Manager Robert A. Currie says the college hopes to provide convenient service and a complete line of educational material to students through the new facility. A titanic step in the right direction.

If student response is somewhat less than ecstatic, however, the reservations may be traced to the apparent absence of any student discount in the face of ever-increasing textbook costs. The convenience of the new arrangement is considerable, but at first glance it would appear that we're being conveniently fleeced.

But the discount proposition is not that simple. The one-shot bookstore is new at Davidson, and its business operation is untested. Sales volume should increase because of the convenience, and because of the expanded line of merchandise. If the revenue does in fact increase, the bookstore stands to realize a sizable profit. We feel that Davidson students have a claim to a fair share of this profit. If the operation is not successful, however, if the bookstore were to suffer a loss, the same ethic could not apply. For this reason, the bookstore is not offering a discount currently.

A mid-year statement will be prepared in December. This evaluation can be analyzed, and if the enterprise reports clear gains we can feel justified in asserting our right of inquiry. We hope the December financial analysis will find the unified bookstore blessed with prosperity. We further hope that blessing will manifest itself in an additional line of digits near the bottom of our purchase receipts: that discount we've grown to know and love over the past two years subtracted from our bills.

When the Student Store and Knovel and Knook were moved last year, we were assured that the nine o'clock closing time was only temporary—“until Union, South Wing is settled.” We have been awaiting the resurrection of the eleven o'clock closing time formerly observed by both operations. Surely the Student Store-bookstore should be open during the late evening when student use of the Union is at its peak.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, under past editors, has advocated a used-book store where textbooks could be exchanged. Since the YMCA discontinued its used-book exchange a number of years ago, the Union has made a sinking effort at maintaining the service. We applaud the Union’s concern, but books can best be handled, obviously, through a bookstore. No investment by the College or the Union would be necessary. Prior to the semester (or summer) break, interested students would turn in any books they wished to sell. Students would set their own prices, marking them inside the front cover. To offset expenses of handling the increased volume, the Union could charge a five per cent commission.

Under the auspices of the new combined bookstore operation, a used-book exchange could be a concrete service to students in this day of $8.95 textbooks.

A Spark...

Imagination is always at a premium. For years the Y has sponsored voluntary chapels on Wednesday and Friday mornings. And for years when the attendance figures soared as high as ten there was cause for glee. Each week another student got up to speak to five fellow students. And so it went...

We find a ray of hope in the voluntary chapels scheduled for this fall. The programs reveal an attempt—through originality and variety—to make religion more meaningful.

Wanderlust...

Society is on the move. We are called a mobile people. Houses are sold, families uprooted and transplanted. There are voyages into space. The jet has jaundiced the glamor of faraway places. The young man who went down to the sea in ships, or struck out on the open road, is supplanted by television trips with silky-voiced narrators. An automobile on a freeway or a motel room with piped-in music is but a sterile box of loneliness for the traveling businessman.

Something has happened to American prose and poetry. We have no Walt Whitman, no Thomas Wolfe. We have suburbia, megalopolis and migration instead. What has happened to the happy wanderer? He was a hobo, perhaps, but more than a tramp, and more than a vagrant. He was looking for something beyond the horizon. Can it be that there are no horizons left? Or are they submerged in smog and indifference—Commercial Appeal (Memphis)

Associate Editors
Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth
Tim Kimrey

Managing Editors
John Todd
Mike Harrington

News Editor
Rufus Adair

Feature Editor
Bob Strauser

Sports Editor
Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor
Bill Briggs

Copy Editor
Allen Webb

Photographers
Sam Smith
Tom Thel

Cartoonists
Jack Lingle
Rufus Hallmark
John Compton

Asst. Business Mng.
Irvine Welling

Advertising Manager
Ned Kelly

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Contributors this week:
Mike Mooty, Preston St. Clair, Palmer Kirkpatrick, Sam Boyte, Tom Cook, Calvin Zon, Frederic Eblers, Al Carson, Walt Drake, Britt Snider, Bill Norfleet, Ted Glusman, Bill Aitken, Cary White, Bob Vance, Ed Maxwell, Harry Carr, David Coffey, Joe Ford, Joe Beard, Dick Spencer, Greg Haynes, and Mike Hunter.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

From The Bench
By Lingle

“NO ONE GIVES A DAMN HOW YOU PLAY THE GAME... IT'S WHO WINS THAT'S IMPORTANT.”

Clark Blasted By Frosh: ‘No Win’ Policy Claimed

Dear Editor:

In reference to Johnny Clark's continued pats on his own back for his objective and well-reasoned opinions concerning the Davidson football season, we would like to venture a suggestion that maybe a little school spirit and team backing is what is really needed. We believe that Mr. Clark is confusing his role as a college newspaper journalist with that of a professional sports writer. The main duty of a journalist on a college paper, in our opinion, is not so much to present his objective, sincere, and well-reasoned opinion as it is to make an objective, sincere, and well-reasoned attempt to bolster sagging school morale. This is what is sorely needed at Davidson in view of our much berated football team, which got a running start last Saturday to the surprise of many.

The boys on our team give their all to practice conscientiously, and consequently many have been injured. It takes a lot of guts to put on wet clothes, practice five times a week, and then try to play your heart out before an apathetic student body. It takes real sacrifice to be a Wildcat gridder. These boys don't need our opinions; they need our enthusiastic support and encouragement.

Bill Barnette
Grey Pash
Davidson College

PS. We also think that those “nasty, black helmets” looked pretty good.

Dear Editor:

If the intent of “An Autumn Walk” in last week's The Davidsonian was to protest against a creeping campus commercialism of which your editor apparently stands in great dread, I should like to mention how unfortunate it was that he did not write on anything else. He hardly has an argument, since one film poster was attached to one tree in the middle of the thoroughfare between Belk Dormitory and Chambers, and it is rather stretching on the imagination to suggest that this destroys all eighty acres of “his goodly temple to God.” Perhaps if Mr. Dibble would like to truly satisfy his craving for virginal creations of man and nature he should initiate a campaign to change Lake Norman into Walden Pond.

Gordon Ball Jr.
Davidson College

Wiseman raises Zealots In Davidson Self-Analysis

Dear Editor:

Hurray! It was, and I mean this sincerely, most encouraging to read in last Friday's THE DAVIDSONIAN about the wonderful changes wrought in our library as a result...of the current Self-Study program and Dr. Martin’s fundraising. Further, at the risk of quoting a perhaps un-messianic public figure, I would add, “Let us continue.” I was especially pleased by the statement in your editorial, “Browsing,” that “Many of them did a thorough job of self-study and came up with imposing lists of needs.” This occurrence is always a good sign, at least in a directional way, for when education ceases to be imposing, it ceases to be education. Every silver chalice, however, has a cloudy lining, and one tincture of difficulty bears its ugly head at me in this case. I was somewhat concerned over the statement made about the History Department's ambitious requests, asking for “twice as much as any other department.” I am by no means a history major, but speaking from the ranks of the uninitiated, I would blurt out innocent appreciation for their ambitiousness, greedy though it was. It is very possible that I drew an invalid inference from your comment that “they have some ‘eager-beavers’ in the department.” Forgive me if I have done so, but I should rather have said, “we have some ‘eager-beavers’ in the department—Thank God!” Et tu, Charlie? Of course, they are eager, and hopefully, enthusiastic. We should be grateful that they have returned to us and our wall-watching seats in the depths of our cave. Let’s not censure them too harshly if they cast some shadows on the screen. Perhaps I have been too impetuous. As my idealism settles into practicality, I realize that there are real dangers involved in allowing these “eager beavers” to circulate unguarded in our midst. They are known for angry polemics, unreasonable assignments, general “dys-cooperation,” and causing loss of either sleeping, slopping, or slipping by. And, if allowed to remain unleashed in our presence, they might even cause us to become, at least partially, educated.

Wm. J. Wiseman, Jr.
Davidson College

Editor's note: We fear there has perhaps been some misunderstanding with regard to our use of the term “eager-beavers.” Nothing derogatory was intended; rather praise for enthusiasm was being offered.

B.C.

The Guys Witt

NONSENSE! YOU LOOK GREAT! LAUGH AT ME

Dear Editor:

Charles Ramberg’s September 25 column was certainly an excellent example of vague generalization which made no attempt to be bipartisan or objective. Ramberg dismisses as hilariously absurd the existence of Big Business manipulation in Republican national conventions. He seems to have forgotten the surprise, upset nominations of Dewey in 1948 and Eisenhower in 1952 instead of Robert Taft. Taft was “Mr. Republican” then, the most popular man in the Republican Party. In 1952 he went down the convention “stretch” with more than enough delegates pledged to support him. However, both Life and Time waged intensive programs to stop Taft; many powerful northern newspapers waged smear campaigns designed to discredit Taft personally and question his integrity. Much support for Ike was stimulated by mass media, and a perpetrated schism threw the nomination to Eisenhower by a narrow margin. I do not argue the existence of “Kingmakers,” but I feel that Ramberg ignores the obvious power centralized in large newspapers and magazines (Life, Time, Look, Post). Newspapers, even when not owned by special interests, are heavily influenced by the desires of Big Business, since Big Business advertising constitutes most newspaper revenue. Mass media can mold public opinion along desired lines and exert definite influence on politics. Ramberg religiously avoids specifics and examples except where he oversimplifies Schlafly's concepts or takes statements from context. For example, Ramberg quickly dismisses the wheat sent to Russia because it constituted only five percent of U.S. annual output. But the effective value of 64 million bushels of wheat cannot be judged merely upon the percentage of U.S. annual output that they constitute. Soviet agricultural dynamics and the relative scarcity of food must be considered, as well as the availability of wheat on the world market. Possibly the scarcity of food would have forced economic reorganization in Russia, with funds diverted from aggression to agriculture. These and other factors must be considered to properly evaluate the sale of wheat to Russia: the fact that this wheat represents five percent of our national output means little in itself. Ramberg laughs off the concept of simple solutions to “Great Problems.” He implicitly assumes that complicated problems must always have complicated answers. However, often a new perspective or concept may simplify or organize a problem so that the key elements can be seen and dealt with. Here the simple solution is actually the fresh perspective or concept. It is the new perspective, or new conceptual basis which renews our society on every level and makes advancement possible. Poor editorialism is a step backward.

John W. Davis
Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Wednesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 218, Davidson, N.C.

by Zarny Zact

OK, MEN, LET'S RUN THROUGH THOSE NEW PLAYS.