PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1964

REYNOLDS LECTURER

Ralph McGill (left) chats with students during his visit here this week as part of the Reynolds Lecture program. A
Pulitzer Prize winner for his editorials in the Atlanta Constitution on racial hatred, McGill addressed students Wednesday night in Hodson
Hall and on the following morning in assembly. In the informal session at the Sigma Chi fraternity house, Bob Ivey
and Emory Whitaker listen. (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Reynolds Lecturer Speaks On Civil Rights, Poverty

BY BILL FOSTER

Violating the first rule of good journalism, that of being short, decisive, and to the point, Reynolds Lecturer Ralph McGill
displayed a gentleness in his answers that he does not usually have in his role as the publisher of the
Atlanta Constitution. In a session before television cameras Wednesday morning, McGill discussed subjects ranging from the role of the churches
in the civil rights battle to police brutality. McGill said that up until two years ago churches had not “grasped
the need to participate” in civil rights. “With a few notable exceptions,” he maintained, “churches’ responses have been terribly late
and generally lacking purpose.”

In answering a query on police brutality, his main contention was that although its existence was “unquestionable” there was very
little one could do about it because it often took place in private or in semi-private and was thus extremely
hard to prove in a court of law. Classifying Governor Wallace of Alabama as “unpredictable,” he went on to relate
how the late President's assassination had apparently caused Wallace to “rethink some of his positions.”

McGill began his main lecture Wednesday night by professing his “deep affection for this region” and stating that once the
South solved the “great travail of the area—the race problem—a door will open for us.” Calling the race question an
“existential” one or one of the “now,” he recommended that people forget the causes and press on toward the solution.
McGill said that the 1954 Supreme Court decision on integration of the schools was not the surprise that some Southerners
seemed to think it was, and he cited several suits and indications prior to that decision which pointed the way
to it. He placed great emphasis on the role that education must play if the South is going to compete
industrially with the rest of the nation. He spoke of the poor quality of Southern education that resulted in so
many draftee rejections from states of this area.

Another theme he emphasized while here is the urgency of the slum problem. “Something has got to be done to
get the third generation out of the big city slums,” he said. “Too often these people in the slums are
Negroes from the South who went North with no skills and have remained in the big city with no jobs
and no future.”

Until the South rids itself of “the great one party flaw” McGill sees little chance of improving the status of
many Southerners. Commenting on Goldwater's chances, he stated, “I can’t believe he'll get the nomination; I don’t understand what he
says. It doesn’t make any sense.” In reply to a Queens coed on the value of student work in the
civil rights field, he said students often help to “telescope time.”

YMCA Initiates Program For Negro Education

BY JOHN BAILEY

The Davidson YMCA is initiating an educational program to broaden the scholastic opportunities of high school Negro boys in the
Davidson area. This program has two goals: “(1) to aid and inspire the more capable students to deeper and more
meaningful high school experience, with the hope more will then pursue college; (2) to equally aid those who lack academic
interest, with the hope that they will remain in high school for a diploma.”

Pilot sessions, lasting about an hour and a half each, will begin immediately after semester break. In these sessions the
students will be exposed to some special aspects of education in the hopes of providing a stimulus for further work.
Each college student will be responsible for two or three of the students and will provide tutoring help for them
throughout the second semester. “The success of the entire undertaking depends upon having a sufficient number of voluntary tutors,” Joe
Howell, YMCA president, said.

In these meetings the college tutors will have a personal contact which is hoped will especially benefit and interest the
high school student. A study hall, proctored by college students, will be set up at night in one of the
local churches or community centers. All persons interested are urged to contact John Curry in 410 Little by noon Tuesday,
Jan. 14.

Alumnus Will Speak At Vespers Sunday

The Rev. T. Hartley Hall, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Lenoir, will speak at vespers Sunday night. A native
of Macon, Ga., he was graduated from Davidson in 1951 with a BS degree, cum laude, in economics. While at
Davidson, Hall was a Phi Delt, worked on the student publications, commanded the ROTC unit, and was elected into Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa.

After a short time as a real estate broker, Hall attended Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., where he received
his BD degree cum laude in 1957. Yale Divinity School awarded him an STM degree in New Testament studies a
year later. Before coming to Lenoir, Hall held a pastorate in Branford, Conn., and was Presbyterian chaplain at N.C. State.
In addition, he participated with the American School of Oriental Research as a staff photographer on the expedition that located
the Biblical city of Gibeon, destroyed at the time of the Hebrews’ exile in Babylon.

Ensemble To Leave On Carolina Tour

While the rest of the students are recuperating from exams during the break between semesters, the Davidson College Wind Ensemble
will embark on its annual tour. This year the group will remain in the state and make a mountain-to-sea-shore jaunt.
Soloist for each concert will be Jim Weber who will play Kent Kennan's “Night Soliloquy.” Assisting in the conducting of
the 40-plus members of the ensemble will be student conductors Bob Miller and John Bordley, who will direct on alternate
evenings. The Wind Ensemble will return on Jan. 31. The group will visit Waynesville Jan. 27, Hendersonville Jan. 28, Monroe
and Laurinburg Jan. 29, and Smithfield and Washington Jan. 30.

Smith Sees Union, South Wing

BY BOB ADAMS

The sign reading “Special Sale—Jackets—Were $5.75, Now Only $5” announces another “good deal” at the Stud, the renovated, improved, expanded
Student Store, now doing business in its exclusive new location: Union, South Wing. After-Christmas sales have reaped undreamed-of profits for
this aspect of Shaw Smith's Union enterprise. One can see for himself. Just pass by the Stud en route to
the game room: the latest sale left only bare shelves—not even a stray price tag to be seen. Actually, the
vacant 200 feet of shelf space never held a coveted Davidson beer mug nor any other item of Stud commerce.
It was intended to hold the literary offerings of the Knovel Knook.as well as the burden of J. T. Kimbrough's
high-price textbooks. The expected move of both bookstores, scheduled to transpire during Thanksgiving and later rescheduled to occur during the
Christmas holidays, proved, like the imaginary ‘beer mug sale (Who drinks beer at Davidson?), to be an unfounded rumor. Hopefully,
the Knovel Knook will be moved to its new home sometime this spring and the textbooks can be transferred “according
to schedule” this summer. Again, the schedule may be revised or prove mere rumor. According to Smith, however, the delay
is made in the students’ interest.

THE FUN BEGINS AT TTTIE’S “Just up the road....” THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

Smith sketchily outlined the reason for the delay: a personnel problem. “The present plan,” explained Smith, “is to find one
man who will be willing to oversee all four functions in Union, South Wing: Stud, textbook store, Knovel Knook, and
game room—and meet the administration’s approval.” Union, South Wing, is to be more than a merchandise mart. “It will become
a rallying point for student recreation and a browsing corner for those interested in art, music, or books,” said Smith
optimistically. While Smith is elaborating on how our new master market (it is supposed to make a profit) will become
a Mecca for everyone, disconnected rumors are even now protesting the alleged inadequacy of the floor and shelf space for
the complex of functions envisioned for the south wing. Of course, rumors seldom bear fruit, as you’ve recently noticed. If
the “ideal” coordinator for the South Wing is contracted (negotiations are in process), the anticipated moves should occur “with little
more delay.” On the other hand, Smith has stated “this spring.”

SALUTE: JACK ASCHERL

In less than a year, Jack Ascherl (B.S., Business, 1962) has turned in outstanding performances on four different assignments with
Southern Bell in Pompano Beach, Florida. As a Commercial Supervisor, he’s run a section of a business office with leeway
to make his own decisions. And then, as Public Relations Coordinator, he improved the PR program for his district. Next
followed increased responsibility—Jack was told to find methods of improving collection procedures, a job where he saw 18 of his
recommendations accepted and used. And this led to a key troubleshooting assignment on which Jack found ways to tighten up
security procedures in the tellers’ sections of the district offices. To Southern Bell, Jack is a man who gets things
done!

Jack Ascherl, like many young men, is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are few
places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

“A delay in the student's interest” practically guaranteed that the Knovel Knook will move down. When asked for more facts,
Smith suggested Business Manager R. A. Currie would have definite answers. Currie happened to be too busy to give those
answers. Maybe next time.

As Student ‘Rallying Point’

THE WASTELAND (Staff Photo by McCutchen)

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Hunt
Maloney
Plow
Bryan
Jackson
Marrotte
Rhodes
Campbell
Lammers
Minter
Schenck
Houchens
McGeachy
Pierce
Smith

(Author of "Rally Round the Flag, Boys!" and “Barefoot Boy With Cheek.”)

1964: YEAR OF DECISION

Well sir, here we go into 1964, which shows every sign of being quite a distinguished year. First off, it
is the only year since 1954 which ends with the figure 4. Of course, when it comes to figure 4’s,
1964, though distinguished, can hardly compare with 1444 which, most people agree, had not just one, not just two, but
three figure 4’s! This, I'll wager, is a record that will stand for at least a thousand years!

1444 was, incidentally, notable for many other things. It was, for example, the year in which the New York Giants
played the Philadelphia Athletics in the World Series. As we all know, the New York Giants have since moved to
San Francisco and the Philadelphia Athletics to Kansas City. There is a movement afoot at present to move Chicago to
Phoenix—the city, not the baseball team. Phoenix, in turn, would of course move to Chicago. It is felt that the
change would be broadening for residents of both cities. Many Chicago folks, for example, have never seen an iguana. Many
Phoenix folks, on the other hand, have never seen a frostbite.

There are, of course, certain difficulties connected with a municipal shift of this size. For instance, to move Chicago you
also have to move Lake Michigan. This, in itself, presents no great problem, what with modern scientific advances like electronics
and the French cuff. But if you will look at your map, you will find Lake Michigan is attached to
all the other Great Lakes, which in turn are attached to the St. Lawrence Seaway, which in turn is attached
to the Atlantic Ocean. You start dragging Lake Michigan to Phoenix and, willy-nilly, you'll be dragging all that other stuff
too. This would make our British allies terribly cross, and I can’t say as I blame them. Put yourself in
their place. What if, for example, you were a British costermonger who had been saving and scrimping all year for
a summer holiday at Brighton Beach, and then when you got to Brighton Beach there wasn’t any ocean? There you'd
be with your inner tube and snorkel and nothing to do all day but dance the Lambeth Walk. This, you
must agree, would not help make you NATO-minded!

I appeal most earnestly to the residents of Chicago and Phoenix to reconsider. I know it’s no bowl of cherries
going through life without ever seeing an iguana or a frostbite, but I ask you—Chicagoans, Phoenicians—is it too big a
price to pay for preserving the unity of the free world? I feel sure that if you search your hearts,
you will make the right decision, for all of us—whether we live in frostbitten Chicago, iguana-infested Phoenix, or narrow-lapelled New
Haven—are first and foremost Americans!

But I digress. We were speaking of 1964, our new year. And new it is! There is, for one thing,
new pleasure in Marlboro Cigarettes. How, you ask, can there be new pleasure in Marlboros when that fine flavorful blend
of tobaccos, that clean efficient Selectrate filter, have not been altered? The answer is simple: each time you light a
Marlboro, it is like the first time. The flavor is such that age cannot wither nor custom stale. Marlboro never
palls, never jades, never dwindles into dull routine. Each puff, each cigarette, each pack, each carton, makes you glad all
over again that you are a Marlboro smoker!

Therefore, Marlboros in hand, let us march confidently into 1964. May good fortune attend our ventures! May serenity reign! May
Chicago and Phoenix soon recover from their disappointment and join our bright cavalcade into a brave tomorrow!

© 1964 Max Shulman

We, the makers of Marlboros, available in soft pack or flip-top box in all fifty states of the Union, wish
to join Old Max in extending good wishes for a happy and peaceful 1964.
