Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Curriculum, Candidates, Cockroaches

We were highly pleased to hear Dean Johnston's comments in “Open End” concerning the inadequacy of the present overall curriculum
framework, which was set up in 1939, a fantastic twenty-five years ago. As the Dean explained, that framework classifies the
curriculum into three unnatural divisions, Natural Sciences, Social Sciences, and Languages, whereas most liberal arts schools use the classifications Natural
Sciences, Social Sciences, and Humanities. Dean Johnston also pointed to the obvious need for an increased independent study program. We
do not feel that either problem is insurmountable. We therefore look forward to seeing the faculty and administration act in
the near future to remedy both inadequacies cited by the Dean, and we can think of no more fitting place
for such action to originate than the office of the Faculty, who is also chairman of the powerful faculty curriculum
committee.

A student observed in the same “Open End” discussion that Geography 51, Meteorology, has been in the catalog for the
four years he has been here, and yet has not been taught during that time because the Geography professor does
not consider himself qualified to teach the subject. Dean Johnston’s rejoinder to the question as to why the course had
been left in the catalog when it obviously was not being taught was that he would have been happy to
remove the course from the catalog if the professor had only requested same. Such strikes us as amazingly loose coordination
between faculty and Dean of Faculty, particularly in a school this size.

Welcome to the trustees this coming week, and for reasons stated at some length last week, we hope they will
see fit to drop the faculty oath. Of much interest will be the new statement of purpose, which, if adopted,
we hope to be allowed to print. The proposed statement passed the faculty with no dissenting votes, but two professors
abstained, feeling a statement would be so inadequate as to be meaningless.

We intend to come out with an insert sheet next week dedicated to the current federal and state political campaigns.
So far this year there have been no political speakers on campus, and the only concerted attempt to support a
candidate came from the Bozo Burleson faction. There is no Young Democrats organization on campus, and the Young Republicans are
otherwise known as the Conservative Club. Obviously, by printing the insert we hope to stir some interest in the campaign
and coming elections. Anyone who feels he has a significant contribution to make to the insert is invited to contact
a member of the newspaper staff before Sunday night. We have had some difficulty finding anyone willing to sign their
name to an article supporting such candidates as Margaret Chase Smith, I. Beverly Lake, and Barry Goldwater.

Two years ago when the Texas football team was 8-0 and headed for a National Championship, TCU, with its usual
sorry record, upset Texas 6-0 on a 50-yard Gibbs-Iles pass play. After the game, Texas coach, Darrell Royal, made a
comment which applies not only to last night’s game but to most of the high points in Furman’s basketball history:
“TCU’s like a cockroach—it’s not as much what they eat as what they fall into and mess up.”

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
David Stitt

BUSINESS MANAGER
Rick Finch

Associate Editor
Sam Smith

Managing Editors
Romir Chatterjee
Dan Adams
Johnny Wright
Rufus Hallmark
Paul van den Berg

Assistant Bus. Manager
Charlie Smith

Advertising Manager
Irvine Welling

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Photographers
Charles Dibble
Charles Ramberg

Cartoonists
Rick von Unwerth
Duncan Newcomer

Assistant Editors
Rick Lowery
Bob Strauser
Jim Downey
Joe McCutchen
John Todd
Tom Loflin

Assignments Editor
Jeff Wampler

Feature Editor
David Coffey

Sports Editor
Ron Snow

News Editor
Don McKinnon

Photography Editor
Bill Hufford

Assistant Sports Editor
Bill Briggs

Contributors This Week:
Rufus Adair, Bill Hufford, Bill Briggs, Allen Webb, Cliff Kirkpatrick, Bill Aitken, John Baum, Bill Foster, Harry Carr, Tom Vinson,
Johnny Clark, Paul Simpson, David Coffey, Ron Snow, Don McKinnon.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Disgruntled Frosh Independent Assails Non-Greek Social Life

Dear Editor:

As Greek Week swings into high gear, increasing numbers of Freshman Independents make out applications for transfer. I don’t presume
to speak for anyone but myself, but there would seem to be a definite connection between the two events. A
random check of transfer figures at Davidson over the past few years will show an increasing number of transfers with
the greatest increase in the Independent group on campus. Why are they Independents? Why are they leaving? The first question
is easier to answer than the second one. Some are independent by choice, having rejected bids or else depledged, while
others never got a bid, some not even getting a second look from the fraternities. Why are they leaving? It
would appear that Davidson has failed its Independents. Some hail Lingle Manor as the saving grace for the Independents. Why
then do members of Lingle Manor complain about the small number of members and the trouble involved in even getting
those members out to meetings? How can an organization purposely set up to avoid the concept of hand-picked membership that
leads to brotherhood give the brotherhood that its own constitution denies to it? I attended an after party of Lingle
Manor at Homecoming. I have had more fun taking an exam. Both I and my date were so embarrassed that
we ended up going to Charlotte before the party was over in hopes of finding some life somewhere. The number
of Manor members there could have been counted on the fingers of two hands, maybe only one. I know of
one Linglite that was invited to an upstairs party and put in a couple of appearances only to leave, as
embarrassed as I was. People keep saying that Lingle Manor would be fine if it had this or if it
had that, only to admit that the makeup of the Manor denies it in the end, making those ifs impossible.
I am not saying that there will be a mass transfer of Independents, leaving Davidson 100% fraternity. Some will stay.
Some find some solace in the face-saving grace of Lingle Manor. Some live in this area or know girls in
the area and do not need any social institution. Some, maybe, enjoy ‘social exile.’ What I am trying to say
is that it is high time that someone or some people begin to think about the case of the Independent
at Davidson. Or will the list of transfers continue growing each year?

Richard J. Barney

Ed. Note: The above letter alludes to nonexistent statistics. A check with Bob Young, assistant dean of students, reveals that
there are no statistics available that prove that the number of transfers from Davidson is increasing. Young is now making
a study of transfers which will be released to THE DAVIDSONIAN when compiled. He said that a preliminary study indicates
that the number of transfers is probably NOT increasing. Relevant to writer Barney's contention that non-Greek unhappiness is accounting for
a greater portion of those transferring being Independents, Young said it is possible that this may be true.

BIBLE BELT HALLMARK

--and, of course, there is obviously no such thing as a....

Area Fundamentalists Protest Atheist’s Talk

Ed. Note: The sentiments expressed in the following letters reprinted from the Charlotte Observer and the Charlotte News indicate that
“fox” Dr. Michael Scriven never knew how many “hens” he was about to disturb when he agreed to present the
atheist’s viewpoint at Davidson. However, our purpose in printing these letters is not to deride the writers. We hope they
will serve to remind our readers of the illiberal barrage President Martin faces each time controversial speakers present controversial ideas
here.

Wilcox

Dear Editor:

Surely there must be those among the alumni of Davidson College who felt a sense of outrage and shock when
an atheist appeared, by invitation, on the college campus. I have looked and listened, but no voice was raised in
protest or criticism. I am an elderly woman and a Presbyterian, so I feel constrained to voice a protest, for
it seems to me that a question of long ago is pertinent at this time: Who is on the Lord's
side? In view of the unfavorable publicity had by Davidson concerning the effect of religious (or irreligious) teaching, one might
well ask what is being taught and, again, what are those in authority trying to do? Prove that they are
exponents of ‘academic freedom’? Or that they have ‘guts’ as someone so eloquently expressed it?

Marion C. Wilcox
Concord

Smith, Archibald Curry, Cornelia Shaw and Woodrow Wilson persist in celestial challenge down Davidson way? Or does it take the
sages in the Davidson Y to give us the latest bulge in the divine right of “academic freedom?” But why
Scriven? Why not a Hume, Gibbon or Voltaire? Why not a full-blown Bultmann, unexpurgated Tillich, a snorting gray whale, like
Nels Ferre, who eats up a whole sea of the plankton of error? Would this not honor the more giant
intellects on the invitation committee? Why an amateur popinjay that most any of us could answer over the coffee cups,
who reads like the youngest office sweep from Clarence Darrow’s office? And from all places, Indiana—half of whose descendants are
of N.C. descent and notorious for sound piety and Christian thinking? If “the devils believe and tremble,” could not Scrivvy,
who seems to qualify on count one, try the second and tremble just a little? Perhaps Mrs. Madalyn Murray's scheme,
to settle the atheists comfortably in a colony out West, might inspire some people to cease from creating A-cells, so
threatening now in the East, and “go west, young man, go west!” But are we looking for reform locally? Not
so, dear sirs, not so. “For I am told, when the devil gets bold, and makes his grand rush, that
he whispers, ‘Hush-ona’”

Dear Editor:

Someone has said about our national troubles, “It is not the series of incidents, indicating failure, but the wrong policy
which created, in the beginning, the condition of failure.” Reflection on this principle makes me wonder as to the Scriven
episode at Davidson College. Never once, asa resident of metropolitan YMCA's, did I hear that one should prove deism by
discourses on atheism, or prove the ultimate of faith, Christ-ism, hush. "by such a devious approach. Rev. McKendree R. Long
T actually at times heard there Statesville the basic proposition, stated by Christ, that "no man knoweth the Father, but
the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal him” (Luke 10:22). I know the ClioSophs at Princeton invited
in "dubious discussers of doubtful measures," but I never heard of their Scrivening to the same extent. Perhaps the images
of McCosh, Patton, and Woodrow Wilson forbid such blatant extremes there. And do not the benign faces of Henry Louis
Roberts:

1
Dear Editor: Observer staff writer Hannah Miller's "Atheist Invades A Citadel Of Piety" tells about the English atheist Michael Scriven
talking to students at Davidson College under the auspices of its College YMCA unit. Having formerly been in YMCA work
for 11 years and a member of Mecklenburg Presbytery for 27 years, I hang my head in shame. Moses learned
3,500 years ago that the venom of an atheistic snake bite could be cured only by the antidote of the
truth found in Jesus Christ. Much of what is currently taught by the YMCA, Davidson College, and Presbyterians is not
truth; and Davidson students are not immune therefore to the venom of an atheistic—anti-Christ, anti-God personality.
Alfred L. Roberts
Charlotte

Roberts:

2
Dear Editor: If all students at Davidson were born-again Christians and with many years of Christian experience, in some cases
their faith might conceivably be reinforced by a limited amount of atheistic propaganda; though doing damage to others. But many
Davidson students are not born-again Christians, and much of the teaching they receive at Davidson is not of a nature
to immunize them against atheist or Communist poison. Under such conditions the appearance of atheist and communist speakers at Davidson
will be disastrous to many an inexperienced boy and girl—and it may turn out to be your boy or girl.
Colleges are strengthened by encouraging Communist and atheistic propaganda if it is the purpose of such colleges to undermine Christianity
by not only teaching evolution, false economics and political theories, false and unproven criticisms of the Bible, but by promoting
and encouraging the presentation and thus the spread of atheistic and communistic ideology.
Alfred L. Roberts

Freedom Gone Wild
What place does an atheist have as an invited speaker at a church-related college? What valid reason can there be
for the YMCA unit of a church-related college inviting an atheist to speak on "The Non-Existence of God?" The answer
to both questions is an emphatic, None! Will immature students (and we do not use the word derogatorily) find such
a lecture helpful? Can such a "challenge to Christian faith" really contribute to the strengthening of Christian faith? We think
not. The Bible is very explicit about atheists: "The fool hath said in his heart, 'There is no God'" (Psa.
14:1 and 53:1). It also makes many pointed observations about fools: "A fool takes no pleasure in understanding but only
in expressing his opinion" (Prov. 18:2). The address by Dr. Michael Scriven, Professor of History and Logic at the University
of Indiana before the Davidson College students on Feb. 4 reflects little credit to the institution or on those directly
or permissively responsible for the invitation. Students today meet tacit denials of God everywhere. Why should the Church add another?
Dr. L. Nelson Bell
From The Presbyterian Journal, Feb. 5, 1964

Asterisk.

ADVICE TO THE BEGINNER: HOW TO MASTER SKIING IN ONE FATEFUL WEEKEND
BY RICK VON UNWERTH
Staff Skier

In the unchallenging postlude after Mid-term Examinations and the month or so before the new semester tightens the academic screw,
the student casts an insouciant eye about for relaxing diversion. May I suggest a quiet weekend on skis. Nothing breaks
up the monotony of walking to Chambers and back to the dormitory, of sleeping every night in the same austere
cubicle, of standing up and sitting down in the same old way day after day quite like a few carefree
hours on the slopes. I submit that nothing will be quite the same after a plunge or two down a
glistening, snow-greased mountain. Perhaps the soundest argument in favor of skiing for the novice lies in its basic simplicity. Mastering
the tow rope demands some concentration, but once you're up there getting down is appallingly easy. The sportsman simply points
the forward edge of one or more skis toward the lodge, plants his chin firmly into the wind, and thrusts
with his poles. Save for the initial flourish, these poles are superfluous. The smooth-talking Scandinavian lifeguards rely heavily on them
for dramatic effect, but for our purposes, they are relatively useless. The most graceless of rubes should be ready for
the big-time slope at least by noon if he starts, say, at ten o'clock. A turn or two down the
nursery ramp, perhaps half an hour mastering the rudiments of form on the adolescent slope, and it’s only a matter
of time before you note with chagrin the absence of a decent jump. The prospective skier is often deterred from
tasting the glory of that first conquest by admonitions of danger, by injury statistics, by mortality probabilities. And these from
the mouths of those who have supposedly "been there." "I hear they hauled six away in the sled yesterday," they
say, or "Friend of mine went up there a month ago... never came back poor kid." These people have simply
experienced the triumph in snow-plowing and just don’t want to share. The whole trick is in getting down fast. Get
on the mediocre slope and they'll try to get you to turn back and forth—piddle around with "stem turns" and
"traversing" and beginners’ shams like that. If you head directly for the hero’s slope, people will realize you know your
way around and stand respectfully aside. Then you can really feel that crisp wind whistle past your ears—that’s what skiing
is. The surprising thing is that a weekend of skiing is quite inexpensive. Skis rent for about $8 a day.
The slope fee is a dollar or two, meals and room will cost in the neighborhood of $10. In fact,
about the only major expense I remember was $144.37 for four days in the hospital.

Students Lift Library Books In Honor Concept Violation
BY HOWARD ARBUCKLE
Honor Court Chairman

In theory and in practice a student enters Davidson a gentleman. The college receives him as a gentleman, treats him
as a gentleman, and resolutely refuses to know him in any other character unless he proves himself unworthy of this
trust. This trust is the foundation of Davidson and the basis of the Honor System. This trust offers privileges and
responsibilities. The college library is operated on the open stack system: that is, students may browse in the stacks, and
the students themselves assume the responsibility for checking out books. The library is the most obvious and odious example of
the privilege of student responsibility and neglect for the trust implied by the Honor System. During the last two library
fiscal years, 428 books have been counted as missing. These books turn up only in the library inventory because they
were never checked out. A book removed from the library without proper checking out is lost to all other users,
and in many schools is regarded as an honor offense. At Davidson, a lenient one-dollar fine is levied as a
small reminder to be more considerate in the future. The lenient fine and a second chance show the faith the
faculty and administration have in Davidson students. But the students are not living up to this trust. It is ironic
that students can take books in this manner and then criticize the library for not having enough books. Abuse of
the open stack system became so serious this year that the college felt it necessary to take steps to remedy
the situation. During the Christmas break, Mrs. Moore and the library staff went through several dorms and without going into
trunks, drawers, etc., found 69 unchecked out books. A notice was sent to both roommates and it asked the person
responsible to kindly return the books and pay the lenient fine by January 10. Some of the books recorded as
missing suddenly turned up on the shelves and the fine was not paid. About a third have yet to return
the books or pay the fines. It is contemptible to see such childish irresponsibility at Davidson. It is a contemptible
thing to see a student take advantage of trust and a second chance to save a couple of dollars. It
is a contemptible thing to see a valuable reference book taken from the library by one person when a whole
class needs it. It is a contemptible thing to see books taken from the reserve room and have these books
mutilated. Finally, it is a contemptible thing to see privileges taken advantage of and responsibilities neglected. Through the inconsideration of
a few irresponsible students, the privileges offered by the open stack system are threatened. The alternatives to the open stack
system are repulsive and in discord with the principles of the college. A closed stack system makes research more difficult
and does not give the intellectual stimulation that can come when one comes in personal contact with interesting works. A
monitor system is a childish and distrustful method of checking everyone for books as they leave the library. The only
solution to this problem besides the threat of harsher punishment is an appeal to a student’s sense of responsibility and
his sense of honor. Society functions least well in direct proportion to lack of trust. But, the expectation of trust—the
chance to prove that one is worthy of trust—inspires us all to do our best. This appeal to self-respect and
ordinary decency seldom finds a person so lacking in these qualities as to prove insensible to this appeal. The need
for library courtesy and integrity has been shown. Let this be an appeal to each student's personal honor and let
each student attempt to prove himself worthy of the trust that has been invested in him. Let a word to
the wise be sufficient: and, if some cannot cooperate, let them pay a stiffer fine—the loss of their personal integrity
and the disdain and disapproval of those they so inconsiderately inconvenience.
