**The Davidsonian**

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Mojo

Happiness is living in Austin, Texas and being able to put a Davidson sticker on a car windshield without fear of being subjected to all manner of harassment along the lines of “That a junior college in Louisiana?”

The Basketball 'Cats have racked up an unbelievable number of team achievements this year, and in doing so have won their first Southern Conference regular season championship ever and hopefully their first conference tournament. To the Villanova fan who wrote to Sports Illustrated calling Davidson a “disgrace to the top ten,” we would like to relate the final NCAA statistics for regular season play. Davidson led the nation in field goal percentage, and if they continue to shoot over 50% through the playoffs, they may set an all-time NCAA record. The ‘Cats were also seventh in team offense, tenth in free throw percentage, and thirteenth in rebound percentage. Individually, Terry Holland was third in the nation in field goal percentage, Dick Snyder was thirteenth, and Fred Hetzel eighteenth, making Davidson the only team with three players in the top twenty. Hetzel was also fourteenth in individual scoring, and Snyder was seventeenth in free throw percentage. Such is an interesting and rather novel way to incur disgrace, but then the Villanova fan also pointed out that Cotton Nash of Kentucky is no good because all he does is sink shots his teammates miss.

Our thanks to Lefty Driesell and the team for a fine year, and may the mojo be on West Virginia tomorrow night.

DTS

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Rule Blasts ‘Visit’ Review, Myers Retorts In Defense

Dear Editor:

The review of “The Visit” was “very exciting indeed,” especially with its new pseudo-avant-gardism “such as has never been seen on this campus.” The reviewer “does exceptionally well” to produce a work which is “on the whole good,” but “still something is lacking”—or perhaps a couple of things, such as support and consideration. “Nearly professional heights” and “depth and technique” may be “effective for the most part” but as descriptive terms they are imprecise and unfortunately typical. The grouped reference to unrelated events (chorus and band) as “superior” in one sentence and simply “commendable” in the next is perhaps the paradox our theologians have been telling us about.

More disturbing, however, were several personal “digs.” A single characteristic (assertion), though salient, is insufficient basis for any fair comparison (implicit) of one man with his predecessor. What becomes a value judgment with repetition certainly deserves more substantiation than just what “one feels”—possibly as a result of personal disagreements. To the reader trying to discover where the “unrealized potential” really lies, I submit that for the worst though not the first time, the DAVIDSONIAN Drama Critic “misses the boat” and should be given his own advice concerning the butler—some people are best seen but not heard.

Bill Rule

MYERS ANSWERS:

The complete misinterpretation of my review by Mr. Rule compels me to comment on the bulk of his letter. His contention seems to be that my review is ambiguous, guarded, and presumptuously authoritative. No review claims to be authoritative, and I certainly do not lay this claim in my review of “The Visit.” These were purely my thoughts as they occurred, on Thursday night's performance of a very interesting play.

He does, however, in the third paragraph, raise a truly pertinent point. There he says: “What becomes a value judgment with repetition certainly deserves more substantiation than just what ‘one feels’—possibly as a result of personal disagreements.” In the first place, I never made a “value judgment,” I only raised questions, and it is only the validity of those questions that can be disputed. These questions arose as I watched the production, and I put them down. Surely, this is no violation of the critic’s role.

Let us take these “digs” one at a time. 1.) “One feels that stronger direction is needed to bring out the best that is apparent in both these people.” We have here a lack of the “necessary” vitality with one actor, and another actor whose best moments are those in his hardest scenes. There are two alternatives, one: that the actors have not done their best, and two: that the director has not seen those mistakes in what are the easiest scenes. Due to the under-average (to me, again) quality of the whole production that night, I chose the director. 2.) “Unrealized potential” has a great many meanings, true. Here it is left up to the reader (or viewer) to answer the question: Is this the fault of the director or the actors themselves? 3.) The “assertive direction” comes as a natural consequence of the above observations, and is in no way meant to “compare” or intimidate the director and his capabilities. And the director has great capabilities, as was shown in his last production!

In closing, may I suggest that anyone who wishes to criticize the review should read it carefully, first of all, then if they think something is wrong, to choose much more valid examples of their criticism than Mr. Rule has done.

Pete Myers
DAVIDSONIAN Drama Critic

Morgan

Dear Editor:

As a Davidson College alumnus and at present a minister to students in Raleigh, I rise to the defense of the visit of Dr. Michael Scriven to the Davidson campus. I heartily concur with the wisdom of letting students hear the point of view of the atheist. Christianity has never been afraid of genuine encounter with other beliefs, and its earliest advocates were ardent apologists who tried to articulate the Christian faith to the philosophies of their day. Any faith that could be shaken by such encounters is not faith, but credulity or blind belief. Rather than shaking students’ faith, I have found that students rediscover their faith in such encounters, and become less dissatisfied with the worn-out cliché of contemporary Christendom. I am grateful that my Alma Mater does not allow its Christian ethos to be exempted from the questions of modern man, but is out in the midst of the battle, relying solely on the power of its own inherent truth.

Rev. Richard Lyon Morgan, ‘50
Peace College, Raleigh

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editor Jeff Wampler
Managing Editors Charles Dibble, Charles Ramberg, Rick von Unwerth
Assistant Editors Duncan Newcomer
Cartoonists John Todd, Tom Loflin
Assignments Editor Rick Lowery
Feature Editor Bob Strauser
Sports Editor Jim Downey
Assistant Sports Editor David Stitt
News Editor Rick Finch
Photography Editor Joe McCutchen
Photographers Sam Smith, Romir Chatterjee, Dan Adams, Johnny Wright, Rufus Hallmark, Paul van den Berg
Assistant Bus. Manager Charlie Smith
Advertising Manager Irvine Welling
Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane

Contributors This Week: Rufus Adair, Bill Aitken, John Bailey, John Barnhardt, Bill Briggs, Johnny Clark, David Coffey, Charles Edwards, George Fain, Joe Howell, Bob Holladay, Bill Hufford, Cliff Kirkpatrick, Buck Lawrimore, David Powell, Steve Pressley, Forrest Roles, Fred Sackett, Britt Snider, John Spratt, Tom Vinson, Allen Webb, Alex Bernhardt, and Greg Govan.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

College Equal Rights Group Supports Goal With Action

Howell Tells Purpose For Charlotte March

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Carolina Solons Reject Civil Rights Proposals

Dear Editor:

There has been much publicity in this newspaper recently about a newly formed student civil rights group on the Davidson campus which favors passage of the civil rights legislation now pending in Congress. We just want to clarify the fact that not all the members of our student body have taken leave of their senses! There are some of us who still have respect for the constitutional rights of property, state’s rights, and the freedom of association. These irresponsible young radicals seem to think that said rights are obsolete. There are those of us who stand strongly opposed to the civil rights legislation now pending in Congress, which we believe is unrealistic, unconstitutional, and dangerous. It would be impossible to enforce without the formation of a police state and the result of violence. Said legislation is an unwarranted federal grasp for power and an attempt to solve, by legislation, basic problems of human relationships which should be solved by the church and private negotiations on the local level, not by pickets or power politics.

A number of the local civil righters have been sending letters to their congressmen urging passage of the civil rights bill now pending in Congress. This (sending letters to congressmen) is at least a civilized way of expressing their views and attempting to approach the problem. We also wrote letters to the senators from our state (North Carolina) expressing some of our views. For the benefit of our fellow Davidsonians we are enclosing a copy of the replies which we received from the Honorable Sam J. Ervin, Jr. and the Honorable B. Everett Jordan, United States Senate.

J. L. Powell
R. N. Powell

United States Senate
Committee on the Judiciary
February 14, 1964

Dear Mr. Powell:

This is to acknowledge and thank you for your thoughtful letter of February 12 which I have read with much interest, and to assure you that I will continue to do everything within my power to defeat the pending civil rights proposals. These proposals are incompatible with the Federal system of government established by ourConstitution, and the basic economic, legal, and personal rights of all our citizens. With all kind wishes, I am Sincerely yours, Sam J. Ervin, Jr.

SENATOR JORDAN REPORTS
By Senator B. Everett Jordan

WASHINGTON—At no time in recent years has any domestic crisis gripped the emotions of our State and Nation like the recent racial demonstrations. We have reached the point where there is a very fine line between peaceful demonstration and mob violence. All of our citizens have every right to peaceful assembly and peaceful petition, but we have reached a point where those who are demonstrating must use just as much restraint as those who are being demonstrated against. No matter how just a cause may be, the rule of violence is the rule of ruin. I sincerely hope that we will see an immediate end to the demonstrations and an end to the wave of emotion that has swept the country.

I feel that there has been a definite tendency in recent years on the part of many people to advocate new laws to accommodate each situation that arises rather than seek solutions under existing laws. Under our system of government, we cannot forget that the law applies with equal force regardless of where it is being applied and regardless of whom it is being applied for or against. The latest suggestion, as recommended by the President, is for a Federal law requiring virtually each and every private business in the United States to do business with any customer who wishes to buy goods or services regardless of who he is. It is argued that such a law would give rights to many citizens who are now being discriminated against. However, the moment such a law goes into effect, and thereby gives any person the right to go into any business establishment and demand service with the full force of the Federal government behind him, the right of the owner and operator of that business to choose his own customers has been destroyed. We have not contributed to the total freedom of man when we pass a law taking one right away from all of our people in order to give a right to some of our people. To me, this is the crux of the proposed Federal public accommodations law, and I sincerely feel that if Congress passed such a law it would create more problems than it would solve. In many, many towns and cities in recent months, literally thousands of doors that were heretofore closed have been opened—and they will stay open I believe—because reasonable men have found reasonable solutions. Although I appreciate how our Negro citizens feel when they are denied service in business establishments, it would be a serious mistake to enact a Federal law that would divide rather than unite at a time when persuasion is proving that it is a much better vehicle for understanding and goodwill than force and police power.

BY JOE HOWELL

There has been quite a lot of controversy and misgivings concerning the proposed civil rights demonstration in Charlotte. I would like to try to answer some of the questions which have been raised concerning the event. The demonstration will begin at 3:00 p.m. on Saturday, March 14, on the Johnson C. Smith University campus in Charlotte. After several speeches by students, the participants will proceed to the post office where delegates from the various schools and colleges will mail petitions, urging the President of the United States to give the present legislation his full support. (We are mailing the petition to the President for two reasons: (1) He is the one man in the country who has the power and personal influence to see that a strong bill is passed. (2) Because of the representation from many different states, we feel that our voice should not be limited to just one Senator or Congressman. The President is the chief representative and spokesman for all the people.) Students, professors, and members of the community from Davidson (many of whom will walk the twenty miles to Charlotte), Livingston, Barber-Scotia, Queens, Johnson C. Smith, Charlotte College, and Pfeiffer are expected to attend. The purpose of the march is to show our support for strong civil rights legislation. This does not mean that all the participants have exactly the same feelings concerning the present bill in Congress. Some feel that the bill with all its provisions, including Public Accommodations, FEPC, etc., is an absolute necessity; some are not sure of their attitudes about all parts of the bill; and some are dubious of the stronger sections. The one thing on which all agree is that racial discrimination, which has existed and now exists in this country, is wrong and that it is the responsibility of our Federal government by the passing of a strong civil rights bill, to see that the existing evils are alleviated.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

This letter is written in reference to the attendance at church services last Sunday by several Davidson students with Negro companions. However, it is meant neither as an apology for nor a justification of these proceedings. These words are merely an attempt to clarify the apparent misconception of numerous Davidson students and people of the community as to the nature and purpose of this incident. If one opposes these actions and wishes to hold some malice toward the participants, he should certainly withhold his feelings until the facts are known. After all, no student of a liberal arts college would want to maintain bigoted ideas which were based on weak or incorrect facts. Judging by the response of some people attending services at the College Presbyterian Church last Sunday, I received the impression that they felt this small group of Davidson students dated Negro girls from Johnson C. Smith and took them to church here as a form of demonstration by attempting to anger people and subsequently disrupt the service, or something of this nature. This idea is wholly fallacious, although the external signs could lead one to such a conclusion. The seven or so students involved are attempting to create better understanding and friendship between the Negro and white communities in Davidson. One of the ways which this is hoped to be accomplished is through the exchange of religious ideas and practices, and by worshipping together. At 10:00 a.m. we attended a short worship service and then had a Sunday School discussion lesson with the young people at the Negro Presbyterian Church. No one raised his eyebrows at our being there. Those students who were interested were invited to join us for worship at the white churches. One of the young men did not care to join us; the other wished to attend the Methodist Church. It so happened that the rest of the Negro students present were girls. They decided to attend the Presbyterian Church. Since we specifically did not want this endeavor to look like a demonstration of any kind, it was conducted on a personal basis. By not having one large group of Negroes enter the Church banded together, it was hoped that a scene would not be created. The Negro fellow who went to the Methodist Church was accompanied by one of the Davidson students; each of the girls was also accompanied by one or two of the Davidson students. These girls were high school students from the town, and not dates from Johnson C. Smith or any other place. The topic of Rev. Harper's sermon was unknown to all involved, although it was quite appropriate for the occasion. This exchange of visits and ideas seems to be an excellent way of bringing about what Rev. Harper spoke of—true Christian understanding and love.

Jay S. Federman

MARCHERS’ PETITION

To the President of the United States:

We, the undersigned, urge you to support the civil rights legislation now under debate in the Congress of the United States with every constitutional and personal power at your command.

“But,” you reply, “some of us believe in civil rights, we just don't believe in a demonstration. It runs against our nature. Isn't there some other way...”

There are other ways of expressing one’s commitment which are presently being conducted in the Davidson community: the Negro tutorial program, recreational programs in the Negro community, Davidson students visiting colored schools, voter registration, and individuals writing their Congressmen and Senators. But in the present situation something more is needed. The strongest civil rights bill of this nation's history is being presented to the Senate. This bill is a giant step forward in combating the discrimination against the Negro, and if the legislation does not pass or is severely weakened, the struggle for first-class citizenship for all citizens will suffer a great setback. If we believe in civil rights legislation, it is imperative that we take a stand and express our views in action as well as words. The political influence of such a demonstration is difficult to determine. Since marches such as this are being planned all across the United States, we hope some senators who are on the borderline will be influenced in favor of a strong bill. Even if the demonstration does not directly influence Congress, it will do something just as important: it will focus attention on the fact that there are students in the South of both races who are in favor of civil rights, who are in favor of strong legislation to help bring this about, and who are willing to stand up for what they believe.

Federman: Negroes Not Student Dates

Dear Editor:

This letter is written in reference to the attendance at church services last Sunday by several Davidson students with Negro companions. However, it is meant neither as an apology for nor a justification of these proceedings. These words are merely an attempt to clarify the apparent misconception of numerous Davidson students and people of the community as to the nature and purpose of this incident. If one opposes these actions and wishes to hold some malice toward the participants, he should certainly withhold his feelings until the facts are known. After all, no student of a liberal arts college would want to maintain bigoted ideas which were based on weak or incorrect facts. Judging by the response of some people attending services at the College Presbyterian Church last Sunday, I received the impression that they felt this small group of Davidson students dated Negro girls from Johnson C. Smith and took them to church here as a form of demonstration by attempting to anger people and subsequently disrupt the service, or something of this nature. This idea is wholly fallacious, although the external signs could lead one to such a conclusion. The seven or so students involved are attempting to create better understanding and friendship between the Negro and white communities in Davidson. One of the ways which this is hoped to be accomplished is through the exchange of religious ideas and practices, and by worshipping together. At 10:00 a.m. we attended a short worship service and then had a Sunday School discussion lesson with the young people at the Negro Presbyterian Church. No one raised his eyebrows at our being there. Those students who were interested were invited to join us for worship at the white churches. One of the young men did not care to join us; the other wished to attend the Methodist Church. It so happened that the rest of the Negro students present were girls. They decided to attend the Presbyterian Church. Since we specifically did not want this endeavor to look like a demonstration of any kind, it was conducted on a personal basis. By not having one large group of Negroes enter the Church banded together, it was hoped that a scene would not be created. The Negro fellow who went to the Methodist Church was accompanied by one of the Davidson students; each of the girls was also accompanied by one or two of the Davidson students. These girls were high school students from the town, and not dates from Johnson C. Smith or any other place. The topic of Rev. Harper's sermon was unknown to all involved, although it was quite appropriate for the occasion. This exchange of visits and ideas seems to be an excellent way of bringing about what Rev. Harper spoke of—true Christian understanding and love.

Jay S. Federman