FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1964

Cats Sharpen Claws; Face Winless Keydets
By MIKE MOOTY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s Wildcats go after their second win of the '64 season tomorrow as they travel to Lexington, Virginia to meet the Keydets of Virginia Military Institute. The boys from VMI are still hunting for their first victory, having lost all five of their previous games.

After losing a 14-12 opening shocker to William and Mary, the Keydets have bowed to some of the more formidable foes on the eastern coast. One of VMI's best efforts of the year was a 20-14 loss to potent Richmond in the second game of the season. Villanova, Virginia, and Buffalo have all kept Virginia Military out of the win column.

One apparent cause of VMI's lack of success is the fact that only 14 of last year’s 33 lettermen return. Also, there has been a major turnover in the coaching staff from last year. Davidson’s Coach Tom Stevens and scout is also quick to point out that “they (VMI) have played some awfully good clubs and have lost by some real tight margins.”

The Keydets are expected to employ a T formation with one halfback either in the wing or slot position. Running from an unbalanced line, they like to roll and sweep to both sides and trap with either guard. The VMI air attack is capably directed by senior quarterback Charlie Snead, brother of the Philadelphia Eagles’ Norm Snead. Joe Bush, co-captain of the squad and last year’s leading receiver, and Dan Phlegar, a 6-3 junior end are Snead's favorite targets. Both Bush and Phlegar are described by Stevens as “good, strong, offensive ends."

Coach Bill Dole emphasized that although VMI lacks size, especially in the backfield, they possess good team speed. Stevens describes the Keydets overall as “a young club, well-disciplined and well-drilled.”

Davidson should report in good condition, having incurred no casualties in the last three weeks. With the return of defensive halfback Dave Sprinkle last week, the Wildcats report at nearly full strength. No changes in the starting lineup are planned by Dole this week.

The Davidson - VMI rivalry began in 1904, the Keydets taking 25 of the series to Davidson’s 13. Last year’s battle on Richardson Field ended in a 10-10 tie after VMI's fourth-quarter field goal.

Stitt Bombs Richmond With 15 For 25 Passes

TEAM STATISTICS
Davidson Opponents
26 FIRST DOWNS RUSHING 42
14 FIRST DOWNS PASSING 17
8 FIRST DOWNS PENALTY 1
234 TOTAL OFFENSIVE PLAYS 239
406 NET RUSHING YARDAGE 758
413 NET PASSING YARDAGE 427
819 TOTAL OFFENSE 1265
2 PASSES INTERCEPTED BY 3
10/6 FUMBLES: No/LOST 8/5
9/55 PENALTIES 29/272

The University of Richmond downed Davidson's Wildcats 20-7 last Saturday in Davidson's Homecoming game. The story of the game according to Wildcat Coach Bill Dole was simply “too much Smith and Hilton.” This was a reference to the Spiders’ quarterback Ronnie Smith and end John Hilton who combined for 147 yards of Richmond’s 192 yards of passing offense.

A fumble by halfback Mickey Andrews on the Wildcat 20-yard line set up a pass from Smith to Hilton that gave the Spiders their first score with 1:55 left in the first half. Dole felt that this was the turning point in the loss. “If we hadn’t fumbled late in the first half, we could have gone into the locker room with a 7-0 lead and the momentum.”

Smith and Hilton kept this drive going. Smith finally broke loose with one of his highly-touted moves. “Hilton really has good moves,” noted Dole. “He had a wonderful day against us. Smith is the best passer in the Southern Conference and probably the best in this part of the country.”

Davidson Opponents
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

Basketball Begins
By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

With slogans such as “There is no glory in defense, only VICTORY.” and “Defense is 90% desire.” posted around the dressing room, Davidson’s nationally-ranked Wildcats began pre-season basketball drills October 15, naturally stressing defense.

Despite eight returning lettermen, including four starters, Coach Lefty Driesell remained cautious in predicting any success for the cagers, with the comment, “If we don't play good basketball, we could easily lose 17 games, but we could win ‘em all if we play good.”

Led by captain Fred Hetzel, the Wildcats will be missing only All-Southern Conference second team forward Terry Holland, the nation’s field goal percentage leader last year, who has joined the Davidson coaching staff. Hetzel, who led Davidson with 709 points and 351 rebounds, returns for his third year as a starter. Already picked to several pre-season All-American teams, including Basketball’s five-man All-American team, he will again be the main cog in the Wildcat scoring machine, which averaged 89.3 points per game last year.

Barry Teague, whose pressing defense brought about many scoring opportunities returns, and if the first intra-squad scrimmage is any sign, will be more of a threat on offense than last year. Burning the net for fifteen points, Teague did not miss any of his field goal attempts and went five for five at the foul line also. Playing the point or outside guard of the Wildcat offense, his play-making was an important contribution in making last season a success.

Beginning his third and final year as a Wildcat starter is senior Don Davidson, who averaged 13.3 points per game last year. Usually given the task of guarding the opposition's best player, he was always up to the occasion. Davidson may stay at his familiar wing position this year or may move to the pivot, teaming on the inside with Hetzel. Davidson will be expected to take on a larger scoring role this season.happened. Up much of the slack in rebounding department brought about by Holland's departure. Dick Snyder, whose 25 points led to the conquest of Ohio State and the beginning of Davidson's rise in the national rankings last year, returns to a wing position this year, bringing back a 15.9 point average with 6.3 rebounds. Snyder led the Wildcats in free throw accuracy with an 83.3 percentage. The only starting sophomore last year, his performance this year should be much superior to last year, his first varsity collegiate campaign. Battling for the fifth starting position are guard Charlie Marcon and forwards Ronnie Stone and Paul Briggs. Marcon saw action in every game and scored 112 points. Stone missed only three of his 20 free throw attempts and scored 73 points in 20 games. Briggs was outstanding in the pivot during last Saturday’s scrimmage, scoring 20 points. This letterman will see plenty of action under the Wildcat basket this year.

This year’s schedule is basically the same as last year's with the exception of four new dates. Davidson will invade the Pennsylvania Palestra December 5 to return last year's Charlotte appearance of St. Joseph's. New York University, year in and year out a basketball power in the East, will host the Wildcats in New York’s Madison Square Garden, January 7. Ohio State will travel south to Charlotte December 19 in an attempt to gain retribution for last year's thrashing by Hetzel and Company at Columbus. The Charlotte Invitational Tournament will feature Duquesne University of Pittsburgh and host Davidson. Other teams which will participate are Ohio University and the University of Alabama. Davidson and Wake Forest will play two games this year (December 1 and January 30) on neutral courts in Charlotte and at the Greensboro Coliseum. The sign on the wall which probably echoes the sentiments of Davidson fans is, “If you did your best, you won.” Davidson fans are hoping for the best this year.

Soon after the start of the second half, the Spiders marched long balls to Hilton, who scored the Spider's last touchdown of the day early in the fourth quarter. Many in the Davidson Homecoming crowd missed their chance to cheer their team by leaving before the ‘Cats’ sole touchdown with 21 seconds left in the game. The score, which ended a two-week touchdown drought for Davidson, was set up by Edwin Smith’s recovery of a Spider fumble on the Richmond 44. Heckard maintained the drive with a 15-yard pass to Bill Rikard and Renn Gruber scored on another 15-yarder from Heckard.

Harriers Lose First, But Beat St. Andrews

Davidson's varsity cross-countrymen rolled to an easy 15-50 victory over the Knights of St. Andrews College Tuesday on the Wildcats’ 4.1-mile home course. The Whittlemen allowed only one St. Andrews runner, sophomore Jim Smith, to place in the top ten finish. Smith, undefeated this year until his ninth-place finish here, stated, “Davidson has a good bunch of runners, and they ran a good race; this course is much rougher than what we're accustomed to.” Gasped another St. Andrews runner, “It was those hills that finished us.”

Pacing the pack in the contest were Wildcats Robert Dean and Tommy Heffner. Dean, in taking first place, smashed the old course record of 23:07, set by Ernie Brown of Clemson earlier this season, by running the distance in 22:58. Heffner also broke the old record, finishing in 23:05. Whittle, speaking of what he termed “Davidson’s finest cross-country team in a good many years,” predicted, “If the team continues to improve, we'll have a real good chance to take second place in the state meet; Carolina will probably take first.” Asked about the team’s chances in the Southern Conference meet to be held here on November 16, Whittle smiled and replied, “We'll be up near the top.”

The victory Tuesday leaves the ‘Cat overland men with a season record so far of four wins and one loss. The loss was sustained at the hand of Furman University last Friday, October 16, on the muddy four-mile course there. The Paladins took the first three places in the meet by a margin of nearly twenty seconds, and though Davidson took fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and ninth places, still downed the visitors 25-31.

The freshman cross-country squad has not fared so well as its big brother group. The Wildkittens have suffered successive defeats at the hands of Wake Forest, Hargrave Military Academy, Furman, and Myers Park High School. All these contests except the Myers Park meet have been lost by margins of at least twenty points. The freshman harriers still have two meets remaining on their slate: VMI and the state cross-country meet. However, prospects for a good showing in either contest are poor, for Coach Whittle was heard to remark disgustedly after Wednesday's 27-28 loss to Myers Park, “Well, I guess that means the freshmen won't win a meet this year.”

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
Best Pizza West of Italy
La Roma Ristoranti
1540 West Boulevard at Remount Road
Phone 376-2576
Charlotte, N. C.

By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonians Sports Writer

For Foot Hugging Comfort
For town or campus this traditional penny-strap moccasin is superbly crafted in golden Scotch grain — rich textured grain but soft and supple. See our other fine Bostonians. Seeing is believing. Come see ‘em!
John Mock & Son
MOORESVILLE

CHARGE ACCOUNTS INVITED