LETTERS TO EDITOR ON FRATERNITY QUESTION (See Pages Two and Three)

VOL. LIV. Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1964

BRAKEL SETS SOCCER RECORDS (See Page Five)

NUMBER TEN

ADEQUATE SPACES on the parking situation. Marshall parking space on campus was Marshall went on to say that there were 576 parking spaces on campus for the 300 cars which used them, excluding the ROTC and laundry spaces which can be used at night. The main problem, as he saw it, was one which the students created for themselves. He referred to the fact that students drive to the library, drive to the Union, drive to lab, and drive to the fraternity court for meals while “it only takes seven and one half minutes to walk from the SAE house to the library, the most widely separated points on campus.” When asked why the area next to Richardson Dorm couldn't be turned into parking space, Marshall said that it is considered by the college architect necessary for the beauty of the campus. The council then decided that the matter deserved no further consideration, having suggested that students make some compromises.

Council Ends Action On Parking Situation

“There is no parking problem on this campus,” concluded senior Charlie Marshall as he presented a report to the Student Council Monday night. Marshall had been assigned the job of studying the situation in response to complaints from students that parking space on campus was inadequate.

In other action during this meeting, Chuck Matthews and Will Jackson were appointed as delegates to the NSA Regional Conference at Duke on Dec. 4. These two men were selected early so that they might be instructed on the stand the council wanted to take on issues discussed then. It was announced that the Student Faculty Conference Committee would meet Monday, Nov. 23.

Frank Graham Talks Informally

Dr. Frank Porter Graham, former President of the University of North Carolina, former United States Senator, and at present a representative to the United Nations, spoke last weekend to the Davidson College Board of Visitors. In an informal speech after the Board's Friday evening dinner, Graham stated his views on the proper role of the United States in aiding the underdeveloped nations of the world. The United States should help these nations in their quest for a better life, “not just because it is the Christian thing to do, but for our own survival,” Graham said. “We have an opportunity for greatness in sharing our freedom and food with the hopeless and disadvantaged,” Graham declared, but he warned that if we do not meet the challenge of the underdeveloped nations, out of them might come “an explosion that would break through this thin crust called civilization.”

A native of Charlotte, Graham was graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1909. He returned to UNC as a professor of history in 1915, and became President of the Consolidated University in 1930. He served in this position until 1949, when he was appointed to the US Senate to fill out the unexpired term of the late J. Melville Broughton. After his senate term, Graham served in several advisory positions with the federal government and as a representative for the United Nations. He mediated the dispute between India and Pakistan over Kashmir until the two countries began direct negotiations with each other. Graham remains U.N. representative for India and Pakistan and has in recent years become a strong defender of the United Nations. He now lives in New York City. Graham has spoken at Davidson several times in the past, and was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree by the College in 1931.

In other action at the Board of Visitors meeting, businessman James G. Cannon was elected the new chairman of the group. Chosen as vice-chairmen were Maj. Gen. Brooke Allen of Washington, D.C. and Julien L. McCall of New York, N.Y. Cannon is Chairman of the Board of American Discount Company in Charlotte. He is also a director of the North Carolina National Bank of Charlotte, chairman of the Board of Managers of Charlotte Memorial Hospital, and president and trustee of the Charlotte Community College Foundation. Allen is with the Headquarters of U.S. Air Force at Bolling Air Force Base in Washington, D.C. McCall is vice-president of First National City Bank in New York.

New members of the Board elected this year and attending their first meeting were, from Charlotte, James H. Barnhart, Barnhart Manufacturing Co.; William M. Barnhart, Barnhart Elastic Corporation; Dr. Frank H. Caldwell, Executive Director, Presbyterian Foundation, Inc.; J. Scott Cramer, senior vice-president of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co.; Brodie S. Griffith, editor and general manager of The Charlotte News; and Beaumert Whitton, Southeastern Construction Co.

YMCA Fund Drive Falls Short Of Goal

The YMCA fund drive ended this week with a total of $2900 collected from students according to campaign chairman Eric Nichols. YMCA cabinet members are still soliciting contributions from members of the faculty and administration. Nichols speculated that the total income from the fund, including “several hundred dollars still expected,” will reach $4100. This is $325 short of the proposed budget for 1964-65. “As a result,” Nichols added, “there will not be another ‘Book of the Semester’ as hoped for the second semester.” The book selected for the current semester is John Brain's Room at the Top.

President D. Grier Martin commented on Davidson’s goals in the next decade as he addressed the Davidson College Board of Visitors last weekend. These goals, if accomplished, will bring many changes to Davidson, while allowing it to maintain its basic integrity as a small liberal arts college for approximately 1,000 men. Martin reviewed progress made by Davidson in the last four years with emphasis on the great increases in the budget and programs offered. Martin expressed a desire that this trend continued, and he suggested several changes that could be made or programs that could be initiated.

NO IMMEDIATE PLANS

None of these programs have been definitely arranged or set up. They are now in the incubation stage. Some of these goals will be realized probably in a few years, while others will no doubt remain. It is hoped that backing and financial support for several of the projects can be acquired. “Some of these projects have been on the college's list of things to do for some time now, and it is hoped that they can be begun now,” Martin commented.

Although specifics are not available on this program, Martin told of his hope that graduate work leading to a master's of art in teaching degree can soon be offered at Davidson. In this program, the student would concentrate on his major field of interest—history, English, science, etc.—spending his final year at Davidson in learning the teaching aspects of the subject. The need for qualified teachers and professors, especially in the South, would be lessened by this program.

LIBRARY EMPHASIZED

Martin also expressed hope that the resources of the library can be quadrupled, as this will be necessary if advanced study programs can be initiated. He commented that the overall budget and the library budget have both been increased considerably in recent years, and that it will have to continue to increase to fulfill this goal. “Understandably, some more money will have to be found somewhere,” he remarked.

The Board was also told that a continuation of the advanced placement tests for incoming freshmen will continue, and more and more students will probably be graduating in three years. A special summer school program in certain fields may be offered for the freshman before he enters Davidson, and in this way a capable student could enter Davidson as a sophomore. This program also could produce more graduates without a large increase in the number of students present at Davidson in one year.

MORE FOREIGN STUDY

A prediction that the foreign study programs would be expanded with increased numbers of students spending their junior year abroad was made by Martin. With the great enthusiasm and success of this year’s program, Martin felt that it is probable that the experiences of this year’s group will provide the impetus for many more students to study abroad. He further remarked that if enough interest warrants, additional programs involving study in other countries could be initiated. Martin foresaw an artist in residence contributing to the Davidson community of learning within the next few years. No particular artist has been selected, but he expressed hope that a program of this nature and increased programs along the line...of the Reynolds’ Lectures will broaden the education of the Davidson students and faculty. Also related to this type of program will be visiting professors. Martin commented that next year a psychology professor from India will join Davidson's faculty for the year, replacing Dr. W. G. Workman who will be on leave for a year.

INCREASED HONORS

The addition of more seminar and tutorial projects was added by Martin as a strong possibility for Davidson in the near future. He predicted that an expansion of the honors program will occur as student interest and talent warrant it, and every indication seems that it will. The faculty also will be studying more, as sponsorship by the college for faculty members going back to universities hopefully will be increased. Martin mentioned that this is presently being done, but that if the program can be increased, not only will professors working on PhDs return, but many PhDs will return and do additional refresher study in their fields.

“YOU FELLAS SHOULDN’T HAVE done this,” President D. Grier Martin seems to be saying to the ROTC cadet brass lined up on the carpet in front of him in his office last week. Actually, Martin is accepting a birthday cake in his honor from the ROTC cadets. They are Cadet Lt. Col. Buddy DuBose, Cadet Maj. Lanier Burns, Cadet Capt. Larry Compton, and Cadet Col. Jim Ferguson; and Martin. (Photo by Yarborough)

Long-Time Davidson Trustee, Dr. Thompson, Dies In Virginia

Funeral services for the Rev. Dr. William Taliaferro Thompson, 78, a member of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College and professor emeritus of Christian education at Union Theological Seminary, were held yesterday afternoon from the Seminary Chapel in Richmond. Dr. Thompson, a former moderator of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., died Wednesday in Richmond, where he had made his home since 1920.

A graduate of Davidson College, he served on the Executive Committee and Education Committee of the Board of Trustees. All four of his sons attended the college. A grandson, W. T. (Tee) Thompson I, is a member of the Senior Class. Prior to joining the faculty at Union in 1920, Dr. Thompson held pastorates in Lexington, N.C., Knoxville, Tenn., and Mobile, Ala. A native of Charleston, S.C., the religious leader was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Kappa Sigma. Dr. Thompson's election by the General Assembly in 1956 represented only the third time in more than 30 years that the moderator had been chosen by acclamation.

Said President D. Grier Martin: “He had a profound influence on Christian education in the church. A great many of today’s church leaders were greatly influenced by ‘Dr. Tolly,’ as he was called. Davidson has lost one of her closest friends. ‘Dr. Tolly’ was devoted to the college as an alumnus, as a Trustee, and as the father of our Davidson men.”

Survivors include his widow; two daughters, Mrs. Hal Smith of Atlanta, and Mrs. Ben Rose of Richmond; and three sons, Dr. W. T. Thompson Jr. of Richmond, D. Gregg Thompson of Miami, Fla., and Joseph Alston Thompson of Atlanta.

President Martin Outlines Plans For Davidson Future

Emphasizes Library, Post-Graduate Work

By LOUIS LESESNE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Dr. W. G. McGavock, professor of mathematics and chairman of the faculty committee on athletics, advocated Wednesday night that athletics at Davidson be completely desubsidized. He spoke at the Open End program to more than 60 students in the lobby of the College Union. McGavock gave a brief background on the historical aspect of Davidson athletics, with special emphasis on football, discussed briefly the scholarship program and the purpose of collegiate athletics, and then dwelt at length with several courses of action open to Davidson, should it attempt to make necessary changes in the athletic program.

NOT AGAINST ATHLETICS

At the very outset, McGavock stated, “I want it understood I'm not against athletics nor do I want them destroyed. Rather, there have been certain changes brought about which make an examination of our policies necessary." He also made it clear that he was speaking as an individual, and his views were no official pronunciation of any authorities.

DE-EMPHASIZE FOOTBALL AND BASKETBALL

In tracing the historical fortunes of Davidson football, McGavock considered two periods: from the late 1920s to World War II, and from World War II to the present. During the pre-war period, Davidson had creditable records against teams that are now Southern Conference members, compiling a record of 23-18.

RECENT RECORD

With the post-war era, however, Davidson found itself being dropped by many schools building big-time programs, while Davidson was subsidizing on a relatively small scale. The result, according to McGavock, is that “in the last 17 years, we have a record of 19-63 against Southern Conference teams, winning only 21% of these games. Against non-conference foes the record is 39-32; however, this is against teams like Wofford, Lehigh, and Lafayette, rather than Duke, UNC, and NC State." McGavock said Davidson is now experiencing the same phase which it underwent directly after the war, except that now it is Southern Conference schools that are dropping Davidson. For instance, he cites, “We have never played West Virginia, George Washington only once; and VMI is canceling their contract after next year. As a result, scheduling games has become more and more difficult.”

ON SCHOLARSHIPS

On the subject of scholarships, McGavock sees the present system as very inequitable. He pointed out that in awarding academic scholarships, the amount is based on need, and many students at Davidson have only honorary scholarships, because of the financial status of their families. “In contrast, consider,” McGavock continued, “that a good football player can come from a wealthy family, make low scores on his College Boards, have poor grades, and still be given $1800 for playing football at Davidson. In addition, of the 30 scholarships at Davidson worth more than $1500, all are athletic. All in all, the system seems to me to be very unrealistic.”

Speaking briefly on the purpose of collegiate athletics, McGavock noted that several reasons usually advanced were not applicable to Davidson. Among these are making money, as a means of contacting alumni, and publicity. Rather, the basic purpose should be for “the development, enjoyment, and participation of the students of the college.”

CHANGES OUTLINED

Using this tenet as the basis for any reforms that might be made, McGavock listed 10 changes which had been suggested: of these, he rejected seven with no discussion, and spent the rest of his talk considering three of the more realistic ones.

The first suggestion was that several more football scholarships be added and leave the rest of the athletic program unchanged. However, McGavock stated that this would be no solution to the problem, for the base of the problem is not found in mere lack of scholarships. One outstanding problem is Davidson's academic standards which surpass those of other Southern Conference schools, making it more difficult to attract high caliber athletes.

McGavock next discussed a second and more popular proposal: to desubsidize football and subsidize basketball “to the hilt.” In light of recent basketball success, this might seem to be the most reasonable solution. However, McGavock reminded his audience that it would be unreasonable to assume that the basketball team could continue its outstanding record indefinitely. McGavock suggested that an even more serious drawback in this solution would be that “it would mess up conference relations, making the problem of scheduling very difficult, especially for the minor sports.” According to Southern Conference by-laws, a member is not required to field a subsidized football team; but according to Athletic Director Tom Scott, who was in the audience, in a query sent to Lloyd Jordan, Southern Conference commissioner, Jordan stated that he was of the opinion that “Davidson would be asked to withdraw if it did not have a subsidized football team.”

DESUBSIDIZATION

McGavock’s third proposal, which he openly supported, was complete desubsidization of all sports and joining the College Athletic Conference. According to McGavock, “The CAC was founded in 1961 and is definitely on the rise. It is composed of schools with which Davidson would be proud to be associated. Members are Sewanee, Centre, Washington and Lee, Southwestern, and Washington at St. Louis,” he added.

One of McGavock’s main selling points was the high caliber of schools belonging to the CAC. He noted, “Of the top three liberal arts colleges in the South, Davidson, Sewanee, and W&L are usually mentioned together. I think a natural rivalry with these schools would develop within a very short period of time.”