FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

BY RICK LOWERY

WITH ALL DUE RESPECT...

The idea of a home court advantage is one that is never questioned. The only point of controversy is just
how big an advantage the home team has. In the Southeastern Conference, the season has been dotted with a succession
of upsets of the front runners. Notably, all of these upsets occurred away from home. The same rather unsurprising results
have held true in the Missouri Valley Conference where seemingly no one is safe away from home.

Saturday night Duke defeated Davidson in Durham by seven points. There is no way of estimating how big an advantage
Duke enjoys at home, but an advantage they have. This well-known truism, along with the bitterness of a tough defeat,
prompted Coach Driesell to fire a verbal blast at Coach Vic Bubas and the Duke athletic staff. Since that time,
Driesell has publicly apologized for the use of the word “yellow” in his statement. To those people for whom the
word “yellow” is offensive, I thank Coach Driesell for his apology. But I really don’t think this is the key
issue of the controversy.

The Charlotte Observer inferred in an editorial that Coach Driesell was guilty of unsportsmanlike conduct. Since when has the anger
and disappointment of a defeat been unsportsmanlike? In every public comment issued by Driesell there were no excuses for the
loss, nothing but praise for the Duke team, and no cry of robbery. Instead, Driesell expressed his anger at not
having an opportunity to play Duke away from home. The home court we know to be an advantage. Why should
a man be asked repeatedly to take his team into a position in which they are at a disadvantage?

Speaking for myself, I was glad Coach Driesell said what he did. I told him so. I’m glad to see
someone stand up and fight for those things he thinks just for his team and himself. In athletics... No, in
anything, a leader must defend those whom he leads and to act in their defense as Coach Driesell did is
nothing for which one should be ashamed. Perhaps, Driesell’s vocabulary was not up to snuff, but to issue a challenge
as he did Saturday night is not unsportsmanlike—in fact, the idea of challenge and competition underlies the whole idea of
sports in general from swimming to fencing, from track to football, and from bridge to basketball. Is this not so?

THE LONG HAPPY REIGN...

Four years ago Davidson's rise toward basketball fame began. It did not happen overnight. A lot of hard work by
coaches, players, and student assistants was involved. But four years ago, it began with a freshman team featuring Terry Holland
and Bill Beermann.

Side Lights

’Cats Swamp Pirates After Loss In Durham

BY JOHNNY CLARK

Davidson's eighth-ranked Wildcats, rebounding from two straight losses on the road, crushed the outclassed Pirates of East Carolina Tuesday night,
rolling up the ‘Cats’ largest victory margin of the year in a 105-45 romp.

THIS PICTURE TELLS THE TALE. Jack Marin goes high in the air to grab another rebound. With Duke behind Marin,
Buckley and Mullins outscored and out-rebounded the ‘Cats in Saturday’s game. (Photo by McCutchen)

Wrestlers Cop Second Win Overwhelm Pembroke 29-3

Last Friday, February 14, the Wildcat Wrestlers overwhelmed an outclassed Pembroke squad and easily picked up their second win of
the year. The 29-3 victory came after the ‘Cats had dropped six of their first seven meets in a season
that could still be respectable. Alan Webb (123), Mike Bizard (130), Billy Mills (167), and Eric Nichols (177) each scored
pins, while Russ Walls (heavy), Hugh Allen (137), and Sam Glasgow (147) completed the sweep with decisions. Only Fred Hetzel
dropped his match.

In commenting on the seven of eight rampage, Coach Parker noted, “It was a good one to win, although Pembroke
can hardly be considered a wrestling power. Their record? As far as I know, it’s zero and the number of
meets they scheduled. This is only their second year to field a wrestling team.” Parker went on to praise his
whole squad for “their steady improvement.” Although injured at the beginning of the season, Eric Nichols has come on strongly
to secure a tie and a pin in his last two outings. Russ Walls has now won his last five
matches and boosting their record to 20 wins against 3 losses.

Journeying to Charleston, S.C. tomorrow night to meet The Citadel Bulldogs in their last regular game of the year, the
Wildcats need a victory to clinch the number one seeding in the conference tournament in Charlotte next week and their
first regular season conference championship in basketball. Davidson drilled the South Carolina soldiers, strong contenders, 88-67 last month in Johnston
Gym.

Led by center Fred Hetzel's 27 points, Coach Lefty Driesell's cagers seemed almost over-anxious to redeem themselves against East Carolina
for Saturday night’s 82-75 loss in Durham to the fourth-ranked Duke Blue Devils, committing several ball-handling errors as a result
of their eagerness. The mistakes made little difference in the outcome of the game, however, as the Wildcats raced to
a 12-0 lead and quickly made evident the fact that the Pirates had little business on the same court.

During a time out with two minutes gone in the game, Davidson fans chanted, “It's all over!” E.C.T.C. soon wished
that it was. They did return to the game, however, and became Davidson's 21st consecutive Johnston Gym victim, as they
finished on the short end of the rebounding, 59-30, field goal accuracy, 52.8%-25%, and the score.

The Davidson scoring put six men in double figures, with Hetzel’s game high total supported by reserve Bill Beermann’s 15
points, Don Davidson's 14, Barry Teague’s 12, Dick Snyder's 12, and Terry Holland’s 10. The Wildcats lost the game through
ball-handling mistakes, fouls, and lack of poise. Only Fred Hetzel seemed immune to the pressuring Devil defense, led by Denny
Ferguson and Buzzy Harrison, that forced 15 Davidson ball losses. The 6-8 All-American, often double-teamed by Duke's 6-10 giraffes, Buckley
and Hack Tison, hit 13 of 22 field goals and finished with 28 points and 10 rebounds. Holland and Snyder
finished with 4 fouls and Hetzel with 3. The Wildcats hit only 9 of 17 free throws, and thus the
16 of 22 penalty shots by Duke proved to be the scoring difference.

Saturday night was another story. Driesell’s charges jumped to an early 5-0 lead, increased it to 39-29 with 6:25 left
in the half, but from then on it was downhill for the Wildcats as Duke's All-American hopeful Jeff Mullins and
underrated 6-10 center Jay Buckley led a Devil comeback that brought the fifth-ranked Imps to a 42-40 intermission advantage. The
second half was all Duke's as the Atlantic Coast champs grabbed a quick 48-43 lead and were never headed. Davidson
trailed as much as 16 points, and Mullins finished with a game-high total of 29 points, enabling him to edge
Hetzel in their personal duel and fouls. Mullins and Holland both fouled out, and Hetzel finished with 3 fouls. The
Wildcats hit only 9 of 17 free throws, and thus the 16 of 22 penalty shots by Duke proved to
be the scoring difference.

CUMULATIVE BASKETBALL STATISTICS

Player Pct. Pct. RB Avg. Pts. Avg
Fred Hetzel 55.9 3 305 13.3 606 26.3
Dick Snyder 57.2 85.2 140 6.1 379 16.5
Terry Holland 62.6 10.0 151 6.6 321 13.9
Don Davidson 53.3 84.4 102 4.8 302 13.1
Charlie Marcou 48.2 70.8 42 1.82 103 4.5
Bill Beermann 56.1 86.2 19 1.0 69 3.74
Ronnie Stone 46.3 84.2 31 1.72 68 3.67
Cam Harkness 12.5 42.7 9 0.56 7 0.35 33 all over,” and the boys from 15 points, and a last
gasp rally Paul Briggs 40.7 58.3 % 1.37 29 1.52 Stuart Burness 50.0 50.0 3 mm: 2 60 Team Rebounds
142. (6.2 Taus Grab Sole Lead Own Team Totals 54.9 74.1 1024 44.5 2064 89.7 Opponents Totals 42.7 71.4 778
33.8 1610 70.0

In a critical encounter last Friday, the ATO’s narrowly edged the Kappa Sigs, in Squeaker With KS BY DAVE POWELL
of IMAC basketball titans 45-45, in the waning moments of the game. Thus breaking the tie for first place, the
ATO’s remain undefeated, and with most of their tougher opponents already defeated, stands a good chance to take the title.
Paced by Mike Payne with 14 points and playing a tenacious defense, the ATO's were able to keep the taller
and usually high scoring Sigs off the pace. Howard Arbuckle led the losers with 13 points, followed by Jim Fuller's
11.

This afternoon, the ‘Cats are in Athens, Ga., for a meet with the University of Georgia. The Bulldogs have beaten
Georgia Tech by two points; Tech, in turn, has beaten Davidson by the same margin. “It should be a good,
close match,” said Parker. “They will be rough, but beatable.”

G. Martin and two sophomores, Holland and Beermann, compiled the first Davidson winning season since 1949. Holland averaged 15.7 points
a game and made All-Southern Conference honorable mention. Beermann averaged 9.2 points a game and won the foul shooting trophy.
Last Tuesday, Terry Holland was team captain and Bill Beermann, a substitute, but both had one thing in common; this
was their last home performance. Although there’s plenty of season left, there will be no more games in Johnston gymnasium,
and quite fittingly it was Beermann’s finest game of the year, as he hit 7-9 from the floor to score
15 points, second high in the game. At the same time, unfittingly, Holland didn’t get the opportunity to bow out
in style. So in lieu of something formal, a round of applause—for four years of a long happy reign.

Swimmers Fall 62-39 To Pool-Minded VMI

“Our gang put on a good show but we just don’t have the manpower to stack up against a team
like VMI.” Coach Dwight Shoe made no excuses for his small band of 'Cat swimmers after they lost decisively (62-39)
in a meet held in Lexington yesterday afternoon. “We had our bright spots. (Jim) Stokes took first in the 200
fly with a record time of 2:22.6.” Jim Grey managed a school record in the 500 free with a time
good only for second place, as John Rimm won with a pool and VMI school record (5:33.3). Rimm ruined another
fine showing of Grey's in the 200 free. In setting the Southern Conference Dual Meet record in the event with
1:54.9, he pushed Grey's 2:08.6 into second place. In the 50 free, John Alexander took second between two VMI finishers.
His time was 25.5. Randy Hughes and David Grant finished two-three in the 100 free, behind the torrid winning pace
of Mike Kearriey (53.4). Then, Alexander and Jim Downey teamed up for a similar finish in the 200 back. Closing
out the afternoon, the ‘Cats 400 free relay team, composed of Grey, Grant, Hughes and Hensley, outdistanced the Keydets and
closed the final margin of defeat to 23 points. “I can't say I'm really displeased," said Shoe after the meet.
“We turned in some fine individual performances. I think we'll be ready for Emory on Saturday.” The ‘Cats will meet
their Georgia opponents tomorrow afternoon in the Davidson pool.

Another Word...

To prevent anyone from getting the wrong idea from the above, I'd like to make it clear that Davidson was
beaten Saturday night. There is no excuse to be offered; Duke scored more points, got more rebounds and made fewer
mistakes. The press saw the game as the show place of two All-Americans, and that it was. Offensively, Fred Hetzel
was never better; in fact, he was magnificent. But Jeff Mullins stole the show. Mullins hit from outside; he maneuvered
underneath; he made several assists and snagged several rebounds. But his contribution to the Blue Devil attack was best described
by another teammate who said, “Every time Jeff hits one, he gives us all a lift.” Even from the stands
this observation is evident; and it is this, more than anything else, that makes Mullins irreplaceable to Duke. Mullins was
not alone, however. Jay Buckley, the senior half of Duke’s 6’10” center pair played what has been described as the
finest game of his career. Buckley, who has been pictured long and loud as the “weak link” in the Duke
five, made more than one believer Saturday as he scored 16 points and pulled in 17 rebounds. The other member
of Duke’s wrecking crew was sophomore Jack Marin who pushed and leaped for a surprising 10 points. If Duke was
good, so were the ’Cats. They dropped a seven-point decision and the difference came at the foul line and the
backboard. Once again, it was quite evident that in top-flight competition, you must rebound to win. Happily the season is
not over. There is a long way to go, and soon now there won’t be a chance for any more
losses. And when that time comes the most important thing is the mental attitude of a team. A big week
lies ahead beginning tomorrow night in Charleston—Good luck.

Rifle Team Romps To A 13-7 Season

Last Friday and Saturday the rifle team turned in two of their best performances of the year. Against P.C. the
'Cats carded a 1393 (perfect score for all five men would be 1500) and easily took the twelfth meet of
the year. Saturday, the final tally was 1391; this time Oak Ridge was the victim. Three men turned in exceptional
scores for the day: Sandy Black (291), Jim Kopp (282) and Dick Forrester (280). Black's mark was the best of
the year and was only two points below the record high set by Bill Blakely last year. The ‘Cats next
meet will be the Western Carolinas Conference Meet to be held at Wofford a week from tomorrow. Davidson will actually
be the host team but the location was moved because of lack of facilities. Going into the meet, the riflemen
will carry a 13-7 record.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

The famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by:
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina

FRED HETZEL FINISHES up one of the finest moves of the season as he dipped and drove and then spun
in this lay-up. (Photo by McCutchen)

The Hub Now Bus Station and Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

THE UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH
SEWANEE, TENNESSEE
ANNOUNCES A 1964 SUMMER SESSION FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Eight weeks; June 22—August 15
Liberal arts curriculum
Forest environment
Sewanee Summer Music Center
For the Summer School Bulletin address the Director of the Summer School

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Every registered student can get a job in Europe and receive a travel grant. Among thousands of jobs available are
resort, sales, lifeguard and office work. No experience is necessary and wages range to $400 monthly. For a complete prospectus,
travel grant and job application returned air-mail, send $1 to Dept. F, American Student Information Service, 22 Ave. de la
Liberte, Luxembourg City, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
