FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1964

Balance Sheet - Politics

SPACE PROGRAM

GOLDWATER
Criticizes the United States' “obsession” with the moon-shot program. Makes a distinction between space exploration and the development of military
uses of space, saying the administration is emphasizing the former to the grave detriment of the latter. Also, distinguishes between
the “near space” military potential and “outer space” exploration possibility, saying that the Soviet three-man satellite demonstrated Soviet superiority in
“near space” which threatens United States national security.

JOHNSON
Calls the United States space program, including the moon shot, absolutely essential to scientific and military advancement. As Vice-President, was
given substantial authority over the direction and development of the United States space program. Has sought to explore the possible
areas of peaceful international cooperation in outer space. Encourages the development of defense potential in “spy” satellites and recently announced
anti-satellite missiles.

CIVIL RIGHTS

GOLDWATER
Is outspoken against discrimination and urges remedies on local and state levels. Voted against the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
denouncing the public accommodations and fair-employment practices titles as unconstitutional and requiring a “police state” for enforcement. Says that “forced
integration is just as wrong as forced segregation.” Opposes busing school children to achieve racial balance in a local school
system. Says it is “wrong—morally wrong.”

JOHNSON
Urged the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 “because justice demands it.” Says the act does not give
“special treatment” to any citizen but assures all men shall be treated equally in the “polling booths, in the classrooms,
in the factories, and in hotels and restaurants and movie theaters,” and other places providing public services. Emphasizes that the
act relies for compliance on local communities and states first, and only after failing this would federal authority be called
on.

MEDICARE

GOLDWATER
Opposes medical care for the aged if financed through social security. Says Medicare would mean socialized medicine and would be
likely to “wreck” and “bankrupt” the social-security system. Favors a “tax credit or a tax deduction for any monies paid
for the purpose of taking care of the aged.” He originally opposed the Kerr-Mills private health care program and now
says this is as far as the government should go. Urges “improvements” in this social security system.

JOHNSON
Has called upon Congress to enact legislation to provide medical care for the aged financed through social security. Says that
in a prosperous and free country like the United States no one need suffer “personal economic disaster and become a
tragic burden upon loved ones or the state” through illness. Says Medicare would be no cost to the Treasury since
the government would set aside employees’ and employers’ contributions during the employees’ working careers.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The following are excerpts from the Oct. 20, 1964, issue of “The Christian Science Monitor.”

DEFENSE

SOUTH VIET NAM

GOLDWATER
Says United States policy in Vietnam has proved “inadequate,” amounting, in effect, to no policy at all. Urges shutting off
the supplies of the Communist invaders by “threatening or actually interdicting the supply routes from Red China, Laos, and Cambodia.”
Suggests that “perhaps the threat alone would work.” Supported the firm action in the President’s response to the attack in
the Gulf of Tonkin, but says it was just an isolated action, not the “new, winning strategy” that is needed.

JOHNSON
Says the United States “seeks no wider war” in Vietnam. Called the United States military reaction to the North Vietnam
attack in the Gulf of Tonkin “limited and fitting.” Says the United States “intends no rashness.” Stresses American role in
South Vietnam as being advisory, in fulfillment of American promises and commitments. Views the outcome of the struggle in Vietnam
as affecting all of Southeast Asia. Says Vietnam policy proves the United States will “stand firm in the defense of
freedom.”

FARM POLICY

GOLDWATER
Denounces the nation’s farm program as “bureaucratic meddling” in private affairs and refers to farm subsidies as an attempt by
government to “continue dipping into one of your pockets to put money into the other.” Would replace what he calls
“arbitrary handouts” of farm subsidies with the “healthy and fair forces of flourishing and expanding markets.” But says that government
will have to help farmers through the transition period, since farmers have been led to expect assistance.

JOHNSON
Points to the wheat-cotton legislation as “insurance.” Lists administration farm goals as: strengthening farm income; reducing cost of farm programs
to taxpayers; making surplus stocks reach the requirement level; and exploring better uses of surplus food and fiber. Calls for
commodity programs which “protect and preserve our family farm system.”

GOLDWATER
Says that United States defense policies “add up, in effect, to unilateral disarmament.” Discounts as a “public relations gimmick,” the
administration’s claims of “new weapon systems,” adding that there has not been introduced into the United States weapons system “one
new strategic system in the last four years.” Suggested entrusting the NATO commander in Europe with authority to order the
combat use of “relatively low-yield” tactical nuclear weapons—which he terms “conventional”—under certain circumstances. Charges the Secretary of Defense with “mistake
after mistake” in evaluating Communist intentions, in economizing the defense establishment, and in “attempts to downgrade professional military men.”

JOHNSON
Says that the United States today is stronger than the “combined might of all the nations in the history of
the world” and predicts its strength will grow faster than all others. However, urges that every effort be made toward
achieving world disarmament and extending the limited nuclear-test-ban treaty to include Communist China. Has pointed to “new and highly advanced
weapons systems” which have been completed under the Kennedy-Johnson administration, such as Redeye, Shillelagh, and Walleye. Announced the development of
a “major new strategic manned aircraft system,” the RS 70. Stresses that control over nuclear weapons must remain in the
hands of the president “in all foreseeable circumstances.”

THE ECONOMY

GOLDWATER
Says the budget should be balanced but would not set an arbitrary time period to accomplish this. Would reduce federal
spending in such areas as urban renewal and welfare services, but would increase spending in the areas of defense and
national security. Says it is possible to reduce the national debt. Has called for a regular reduction of personal income
taxes and corporate taxes, 5 percent a year, over the next 5 years beginning at the earliest possible date. Has
criticized the graduated income tax as unfair. Says if government spending continues at the present rate, “we will have to
adopt a form of United States socialism.” Voted against the administration’s tax cut calling it a temporary, election-time, political gimmick.

JOHNSON
Says a “balanced budget in a full-employment, full-prosperity economy” is the goal. Says he wants to end government waste and
keep federal employment at a minimum, but says this also is to “release funds to meet new challenges and opportunities.”
Rejects the “standstill budget” which turns its back on “new needs.” Cites the tax cut as a long-range stimulus for
the economy in helping to close the “gap” between present national economic production and actual capacity.City and in providing jobs
which can be created “by allowing our people to spend and invest a greater part of the money they earn.”
Pointed to September as the “3rd month of the greatest peacetime prosperity” in United States history.

Midwest Poll Compiles College Political Opinion

PAGE THREE

Incumbent President Lyndon B. Johnson won a landslide victory over Senator Barry Goldwater in a nationwide poll conducted by the
Drury College Mirror of over one hundred college and university campus editors and newspapers. Survey results showed 79 percent of
the editors supported Lyndon Johnson and 17 percent supported Barry Goldwater. Of the school newspapers, 60 percent took no stand,
37 percent gave the nod to Johnson, and 3 percent chose Goldwater. The resulting ratio for the Johnson-Humphrey team was
more than 81 over the Goldwater-Miller team.

This collegiate editorial opinion survey was sent to 250 colleges and universities across the nation, of which 105 schools responded.
Civil rights and big government were named as the two most contested issues. Foreign policy ranked in third place, followed
by federal spending, communism, and defense. More church-supported schools seemed to see the personal ethics of the candidates as an
important issue.

One big question was the extent of the “backlash and/or “frontlash” reactions editors saw in their areas. Colleges and universities
in the West, Midwest, and Northeast reported a “moderate to strong” frontlash. Southern schools showed an almost even division between
the defectors from either side. Private schools stressed the frontlash strongest, and large state schools reported neither frontlash nor backlash
to be very prevalent.

Several editors added additional comments to the survey. The Ohio Wesleyan Transcript reported a mock election gave a landslide to
Johnson-Humphrey. The editor commented that these results were “little short of astonishing,” since Ohio Wesleyan had been “a conservative, Republican
stronghold” for years.

The survey revealed five major trends in editorial thinking, here quoted from the Drury Mirror. First, “Goldwater's Semitic background has
had no bearing in the campaign on American campuses.” Second, a moderate but persistent “frontlash” has definitely appeared which overshadows
the “backlash” in most parts of the country.” Third, “the backlash” does not seem to be a truly powerful force
on southern campuses.” Fourth, civil rights, rather than the traditional issue of big vs. small government, seems to be the
main problem of the election on the college campus. Lastly, there is the overwhelming popular support given to Lyndon Johnson
by college newspaper editors, and a similar trend among the student bodies which these editors represent.

Results of the Drury Mirror survey were compiled and tallied by the Statistical Research Foundation. The article about the poll
in the Drury Mirror gave special mention to Davidson as representing one of the few colleges in which Senator Barry
Goldwater defeated President Lyndon Johnson.

Democratic Tidal Waves To Swamp Goldwater Raft

By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON

All polls and pollsters are agreed on one point: incumbent President Lyndon Baines Johnson will defeat Senator Barry Morris Goldwater
in a victory of landslide proportions. Unless the most monumental hoax of our times has been perpetrated, Goldwater has absolutely
no chance of winning this election, barring some unexpected disaster.

President Johnson is said to have obtained a copy of the latest secret Republican polls, taken just last week and
shown to both Goldwater and Miller. This poll is said to have shown that the Goldwater-Miller team could hope to
carry only seven states at best.

It seems that a landslide is the safest prediction. The only question is how much? The secret Republican poll is
said to give the GOP Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana definitely—for the Arizona senator. Giving the Republicans a chance of carrying
Wyoming, Florida, South Carolina, and Nebraska. The Walter Jenkins affair seems to have dented only slightly the Democratic tidal wave.
The surprising result of the latest polls is that instead of showing a slight swing of votes to the underdog
at the last minute, most of them are pointing to a widening margin for the current front runner.

Johnson-Humphrey will take 60 percent of the popular vote and will carry 44 states with 489 electoral votes. Goldwater-Miller will
get about 40 percent of the popular vote and will carry only 7 states with 49 electoral votes. Now, down
the roll-call of the states, section by section:

North Carolina (13): Should be one of the closest races in the nation. Many conflicting views here, but enough Democrats
stay with their party to give Johnson the victory by less than twenty thousand votes.

Virginia (12): Another close one, large undecided vote will determine the result. LBJ by three percentage points.

South Carolina (8): Feeling against civil rights gave Goldwater an early edge. But loyalty for a native Southerner will give
Johnson a very, very narrow victory.

Georgia (12): Heavy Negro vote, plus urban support spell a win for Johnson, despite rural support for Goldwater.

Florida (14): Another closely-contested Southern state. Central region of the state is the key. Goldwater wins a landslide.

Delaware (3): Safe for LBJ-HHH.

Ohio (26): Enough frontlash to put Johnson across.

Indiana (13): Closest of the Midwestern states. Give it to Johnson.

Illinois (26): Only a last-minute drastic shift could win this state for the GOP.

Michigan (21): Big margin for Johnson.

Wisconsin (12): Another state in the Democratic ranks.

Minnesota (10): Home state of HHH goes for Democrats.

Iowa (9): Johnson maintains his lead.

North Dakota (4): Democratic support slim, but sufficient.

South Dakota (4): A close race but with the edge to Johnson.

District of Columbia (3): Democratic landslide.

Maryland (10): Backlash threat recedes. Johnson.

West Virginia (7): Johnson landslide.

Kentucky (9): Rash GOP statements deliver votes to LBJ-HHH.

Wyoming (3): Goldwater holds a narrow lead.

Colorado (6): Democrats win.

Idaho (4): Frontlash works here again. LBJ.

Missouri (12): Democrats win easily.

Oklahoma (8): Sympathy for a neighbor. Johnson.

Montana (4): Mansfield helps pull Johnson across.

New York (43): LBJ all the way.

Vermont (3): Goes Democratic for the first time.

New Hampshire (4): Another loss for Goldwater-Miller.

Maine (4): Republican frontlash means victory for Democrats.

Massachusetts (14): No question here. Johnson.

Rhode Island (4): Safely in the Democratic column.

Connecticut (8): LBJ has an insurmountable lead.

Pennsylvania (29): Goldwater rebuffed.

New Jersey (17): Johnson by a landslide.

Utah (4): Big victory for LBJ-HHH.

Nevada (3): Gamblers put “smart” money on Johnson.

New Mexico (4): Close, but victory for the Democrats.

Arizona (5): Goldwater at least carries his home state, but not by much.

Alaska (3): Win for Johnson.

Washington (9): LBJ wins.

Oregon (6): Democrats win, though the state has gone GOP for sixteen years.

California (40): Goldwater must have this state to win, but Johnson will win by 2 to 1 or better.

Hawaii (4): LBJ victory.

HARRINGTON’S LAST STAND

DEMOCRATS THE LINE-UP
