The Davidsonian

“THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY”

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

An Endorsement

As the months, weeks and days passed by bringing us closer to the election-year ritual of endorsement, we have been
increasingly tempted to avoid such an editorial. We view with disgust the “campaign” of 1964 and its mud-splattered candidates. Never
knowing what their hassle with semantics would produce, we have cringed each time Senator Goldwater and his supporters have begun
to speak. Repulsive have been Lyndon Johnson and his corny lines. We have watched, sadly amused, as the practical politician
has practiced political opportunism with idealistic clichés about the “Great Society.” We shuddered as the master politician avoided debate—even of
specific issues—thereby tacitly allowing a degenerate campaign to sink even lower.

We would prefer to write no editorial. We would prefer to cast no ballot Tuesday. But the fact remains: there
will be an election Tuesday with the American electorate choosing between two major candidates. The citizen has the responsibility to
choose the best candidate available for office. The choice is limited, but the responsibility remains. We reluctantly accept this responsibility.

The bases for choosing a candidate must be positive. We are tired of hearing, “It’s gonna be the lesser of
two evils for me.” Such an attitude is unhealthy. The individual must determine why he is for his candidate if
he is to vote with a responsible intellect and a clear conscience.

In Senator Barry Goldwater—both in the man and his record—we find a sincere concern for the individual and the relationship
of the individual and his government. This concern has been a factor of significance in the public posture of Goldwater.
We find it in his vote on labor... in his statements on agriculture... throughout the expanse of contemporary politics.

In broad terms, the senator’s record is that of a man who has shown the courage of his convictions in
voting, even when his action has made him part of a very small group. “He never sought to lead in
the Senate,” writes one observer. “No law bears his name. In an organization of men who have elevated compromise to
an art, he has been loath to wheel and deal, to strike a bargain here to gain a point there.
He never maintained a large staff of advisers or a retinue of press agents.”

A Goldwater victory Tuesday would mean no great change in the framework of this nation’s governmental programs. Regardless of the
hopes of changes would be unlikely. However, any proposed extension of the social welfare system—or any other facet of government
concern—would meet upon the government as the servant with more intensive scrutiny under that elusive criterion of ‘individual freedom.” The
Republican nominee has consistently expressed his devotion to this concept: his loyalty will not wane.

We would not fear the foreign policy of a Goldwater administration; rather we would rest more comfortably. The security of
these United States and the Free World rests upon the respect that potential aggressors hold for our defense system, a
system which the Arizonan has promised to maintain as second-to-none. This nation’s Presidency does not need a cynic who views
the United States government as a political toy; we need as a leader a man who looks upon the government
as the servant of the people, a man who is concerned with the freedoms of each individual citizen, a man
who is dedicated to protecting that nation in which these freedoms have flourished.

Mob Security

We have ceased to be amazed by the infantile conduct of the Davidson Student Body as it sits in Chambers
Auditorium. The Davidson student consistently behaves like a first-class horse's ass in front of visiting lecturers, entertainers, and fellow-students alike.

This editorial was conceived as we sat through the recent IFC concert and heard the super-cool Davidson “men” laugh at
a fellow-student’s attempt to provide a real service for us all. Not only this, but there were several children who
got their kicks by talking and strumming on the seats throughout the concert. Aside from the fact that said little
boys showed that all their taste was in their mouths, they exhibited a complete lack of common courtesy, which in
this case would have consisted only of keeping their mouths shut.

Saturday night was not an isolated case. Charles Mitchell, while obviously not the most intelligent speaker who appeared before a
chapel audience, was accorded a reception that even George Wallace doesn’t deserve. Another minor—but not insignificant—incident occurred during the Ian
and Sylvia concert. What was the only song of the evening that caused the Davidson audience to interrupt the singing
with thunderous applause? Why, of course—the little Irish ditty in which Ian burst forth with a rousing “son of a
bitch!” This kind of makes us wonder about the basic intelligence of the Davidson student.

And so, we would offer this bit of advice to all speakers and artists who plan to appear before this
illustrious community: Start your performance with a few “damns” and “hells” and we will love anything you choose to say.

It was strangely appropriate that the Rev. Robert Martin, Sunday’s vespers speaker, chose to talk about the “Voice of the
Crowd.” His observations about mob psychology rang especially true in the light of Saturday's showing. We would not pretend to
know what it is about being in a crowd that suddenly turns us all into extremely brave and loud-mouthed critics.
Perhaps we feel safe among other discourteous fools; or maybe a sadistic sense of humor compels us to ridicule a
man when we are sure he can’t strike back. At any rate, we find that it is sometimes extremely embarrassing
to be a member of the Davidson Student Body. And we make a plea for some small amount of sanity
and decency in future assemblies.

Assets Needed?

It has been castigated far more than it has been praised. Not only has it aroused the ire of trustees,
but it has also evoked venomous comments from even the most “nameless faces” in the student body. It apparently is
a failure for—excepting its president—no student has ever participated fully in its program. And yet the YMCA deserves the support
of every single member of this community.

The Y occupies a unique position at Davidson: It is true that no student—excepting its president—has ever participated fully in
its program. But equally true is the fact that no other organization on this campus has reached each individual member
of the student body as extensively as the Y or with the degree of success that has been the Y’s.

We were sorry to learn this week that the Y drive for funds for its annual budget has been faring
poorly. The organization’s $4,500 budget covered a lot of territory last year, and, if met again this year, will finance
an equally extensive program. Forums have proven a stimulus to thought on our campus; the Book-of-the-Semester program has brought us
outstanding writers for lectures and conversations; the Community Service program has been a boon to the young people of Davidson
and has strengthened the bond between the College and the Town; although limited, the Tutorial Plan has been a significant
and realistic attempt to help solve one of the greatest problems of our day.

We urge the Davidson community to take a second look at this organization: we are confident that the YMCA merits
the full support of Davidson, collectively and individually.

Associate Editors
Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth
Tim Kimrey

Managing Editors
John Todd
Mike Harrington

News Editor
Rufus Adair

Feature Editor
Bob Strauser

Sports Editor
Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor
Bill Briggs

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Contributors this week:
Bob How, Ken Tarleton, Mike Hunter, Jack Augustitus, Steve Brown, Frank Fleming, Bill Aitken, John Bailey, Don Davis, Heyward Carter,
Ted Glusman, Lindsay Davis, Jamie Bryant, Al Carson, Bob Vance, David Coffey, Ron Snow, Bert Whisenant, Sam Boyte, Larry Norfleet,
John Allen, Palmer Kirkpatrick, Steve Graham, Bob Holladay, Ed Maxwell, Paul Marion, Britt Snider, Louis Neane, Tim Rothermel, Will Shackleford,
Mike Walt Drake, Billy Farr, Allen Webb, Bill Aitken, Calvin Zon, Sam Smith, Tom Thel, Erskine Sproul, Jack Lingle, Rufus
Hallmark, Lou Hill, Irvine Welling, Bob Cameron, Neville Patterson, Steve Brown, Sam Boyte.

Photographers
Steve Patrick, Neville Patterson

Cartoonists
Steve Brown, Sam Boyte

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Find The Elephant

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Williams Urges Diversity In Admissions Policies

Dear Editor:

Complete information about the argument over Davidson's admissions policy has not reached me, but it seems that Mike Bates’ letter
on the subject omits mention of some of the newer techniques for increasing the heterogeneity of the student body and
at the same time maintaining, and perhaps raising, academic standards. His argument, therefore, was weaker than it had to be.

He will probably agree that Davidson has problems because of the relative homogeneity of its student body. These problems have
been discussed on campus for a long time. Their causes perhaps are the characteristics and friends Davidson inherits from her
past: characteristics and friends necessary for her present financial, political, and academic existence but also requiring change: her gradually changing
reputation as a Southern school which trains young men for professional and business careers and continues their religious education (not
so much by teaching theology as by offering a particularly acceptable set of ethical standards).

Whether Davidson is what people remember, or what they imagine when they accuse, is another question, but this general portrait
is somewhat accurate.

To reduce student body homogeneity is to reduce the distance between a college and the rest of society. When the
first European universities were founded, their separation from society guaranteed their intellectual freedom and was protected by the church and
the monarchies; it becameTheir chief attraction and for many years defeated its purpose because the newly free students refused to
study. Writers on the history of German universities call the students the juvenile delinquents of their time because they sat
in church and ridiculed the service, frightened the police, and terrorized the citizens. European students still retain many of their
privileges after 150 years of university reform, but the large enrollments and the necessity of living in apartments scattered throughout
the towns make escaping society almost impossible.

In the United States, the ideas of educators and social philosophers, plus the heterogeneity of the people and their individual
opinions, produced the educational theory that the university or college must at the same time be accessible to society and
somewhat above society. The fundamental contention is that knowledge is an abstraction from life and that therefore continuous contact with
life is necessary to prevent irrelevance. The modern humanistic disciplines, such as psychology and sociology, emphasize by their being in
curricula that the college or university is continuously investigating society and individuals; and the arts always have.

Dissatisfied with the activity of modern universities and of modern university professors, some groups of people have isolated themselves and
have condemned the institutions and their members as impotent. Le Roi Jones and other poets and artists are in this
group. Jones frequently prints sarcastic remarks about this subject in his own magazine and it has become dogma among some
that creative activity must be separated from professional occupations. Such attitudes and activities, along with the more traditional ideas demanding
the contrary, should compel college students to question their relation to society and the relation of their education to society.
The college should seek many types of students to prevent its forgetting the variety and problems of society. Admission of
relatively average students is unavoidable, and refusal to admit those who lack the standard marks of success is undesirable in
any college or university which does not otherwise compensate for this divorce from society. But there is more than one
way to prevent uniformity, especially uniformity of the type Mr. Bates discusses. Many universities in the United States are attempting
to introduce diversity by accepting artistically or scientifically talented students who excel in any particular field at the expense of
general excellence. Such admissions policies are not new, and have also been used as acceptance criteria for some of the
large scholarships, such as the Merit scholarship.

Conflict, which Mr. Bates also seems to relish, is stifled at Davidson—or anywhere else—not so much by an excess of
average students as by an excess of easy identity, which allows the student to imagine that most of the other
students are like him. As both Mr. Bates and the Davidson administration maintain, contact with great ideas, such as Christianity,
is necessary, but as the artists point out, contact with a Coke bottle can be at least more interesting than
might be imagined. Therefore, Davidson should recognize diversity’s importance and the ease of overlooking diversity and interest (as a Coke
bottle is often overlooked); she should understand that a society, also an academic society, is not a simple balance between
the average and the bright; and she should form these understandings into an admissions policy whose aim is the justification
of Davidson's intellectual existence in an increasingly demanding academic world.

George Williams
Munich 13
Rankstrasse 6 IV Stock, bei Aichee
West Germany

(Editor’s note: George Williams, who ranks first academically in the Junior Class, is studying in Germany under the Davidson’s Junior-year-Abroad
Program.)

Faw

Dear Editor:

Randolph Babcock’s impassioned reminder Monday morning that deep inside we know Bang-Bang is 100% true-blue emphasizes a recent (Sept. 30)
speech to the Senate by Montana's junior senator, Lee Metcalf, which calmly, accurately, and objectively differentiates voting records of the
current Presidential candidates. Reprinted in full in the Congressional Record (page 22499 for disbelievers), it concludes: “It appears that this
year’s campaign by the Goldwater wing of the Republican Party is calling attention to some strange knowledge alleged to be
stored in one’s heart, and if one will just carefully examine deep into his heart he will recognize that what
Goldwater is saying is really true... Deep in my heart a careful examination of Goldwater's record results in a severe
case of heartburn.”

Enough said—although it's perhaps desirable that the Late Show, that Babcock is forced to watch the evening of November 3rd,
is one of those subversive imports which show our cultural delinquents, the shiftless redskins, finally victorious. That should make the
day complete.

R. Decker Faw
Davidson College

Once More With Feeling
By TIM KIMREY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

MY ACADEMIC UNDER-ACHIEVEMENT and some of my moments of greatest joy both spring from the same source—namely that I devote
too much time to pondering such unimportant questions as “Would I enroll at Davidson College if I had to make
the decision all over again?” This particular question was answered very quietly in the affirmative by such a simple thing
as a Tuesday afternoon walk down Main Street. Having stomached more of Aristotle's ETHICS than is healthy in one afternoon,
I reached the oft-reached decision to amble to the Post Office for that letter that I knew was not there.
It was 4:30. Of course, there was no mail. Decided that an orangeade would taste good... turned toward the M&M...
stopped briefly to admire a baby who was sitting in her stroller at the top of the Post Office steps...
her mother came, dropped a McCall’s magazine in the child’s lap, and they started north on Main... dog followed them...
all three were happy. At Mary’s I decided to splurge and buy an egg salad sandwich... the 83rd since school
started... Mrs. Moore was there... short and pleasant as ever... talking of Europe... Dr. Kimbrough had on his sunglasses... indoors...
The new Playboy was out... a poor issue... but I knew it would be sold-out by Thursday... three Negro children
bought ice-cream cones... vanilla. I needed some Dial soap and a box of ginger-snaps... went to Cashions... saw Dean Bailey...
he was buying soup and oatmeal... Will Terry talked to Mrs. Martin... Mrs. Nicholls looked tired and had a toothache...
and the man rang the cash register with a smile and a word for everyone. Outside... three school-girls headed home
from the Hub... teased hair and budding breasts... initialed notebooks... a freshman looked and longed... no letter for him either...
four dirty little boys rolled tires down the sidewalk... pink, elastic bubbles on their lips... an hour ’till dark... Dr.
Clark chatted with a lady on the curb... he laughed... she drove away. The trees beside the church were ablaze
with color... orange and yellow... blue sky... the slate-covered steeple... a jet trailed white fluff across the sky... townies revved
their motors and called to the Negro sitting on the trashcan... he smiled... the old man with the wagon held
the reins loosely... clip-clop... faded overalls... he looked straight ahead and tired... slowly home... the horse knew the way. The
wind carried a slight chill now, as I walked through the leaves by Phi Hall. I felt like smiling all
over. For a moment, I loved this place... and knew I would come again. I slept ’till supper.

RECOMMENDED READING is Paul Tillich’s series of lectures entitled LOVE, POWER, AND JUSTICE. Here, Tillich presents a clear and understandable
discussion of the concepts upon which all ethics are based. His assertion of the importance of power in group and
interpersonal relations marks a milestone in the discussion of ethics. A sample: “Constructive social ethics are impossible as long as
power is looked at with distrust and love is reduced to its emotional or ethical quality... Constructive ethics presuppose that
one is aware of the element of love in the structures of power and of the element of power without
which love becomes chaotic surrender.” Those who think the Christian church should steer clear of politics, because the church is
pure and politics is dirty business, should read this book, as should those white liberals who think that good race-relations
involve nothing more than loving and doing justice.

I WONDER HOW MANY DAVIDSON STUDENTS are enrolled in ROTC I & II who will not qualify physically for Advanced
ROTC or the Army? And yet, these men who will be rejected for military service are required to waste two
years in the Basic ROTC program. Why? Could it be that the college receives additional cash for every student enrolled?
Or maybe someone is afraid that the ROTC program would collapse unless it was required. Regardless, it seems mildly stupid
to require ROTC of everyone—especially those who will never be able to serve on active duty.

WHAT DOES A COLUMNIST DO when he hasn’t got enough material to fill up his space? Why, prints a poem
that he likes, of course. By Diane Di Prima:

In case you put me down
I put you down already, doll
I know the games you play.
In case you put me down
I got it figured how
there are better mouths than yours
more swinging bodies
wilder scenes than this.
In case you put me down
it won't help much

PLEASE, AMERICA, SHOW ME YOU'VE PROGRESSED AND BURY GOLDWATER IN A LANDSLIDE.

Subscribe to the 1964-65 DAVIDSONIAN.

NAME
ADDRESS
CITY

SUBSCRIPTION FORM
I Enclose Four Dollars
Bill Me Later at $4.50
Renewal
New Subscription

The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N. C.
