ALUMNUS CRITICIZES SCHOOL SPIRIT (See Page Two) VOL. LIV

SIGMA CHI’S WINNING HOMECOMING PROJECT

Homecoming A Success After Gray Beginning

Although Homecoming 1964 appeared on the verge of being washed out Friday afternoon, the downpour subsided after Davidson’s soccer team bettered its record to three wins with a sound 5-1 drubbing of Duke, leaving a muddy path for the culturally inclined to tread in order to watch the incantations of the Raduga dancers. Viewed with some apprehension before Friday night, the Russians turned out to be a real success.

By Saturday morning the rains had ceased completely, and Davidson gentlemen and their dates came out to watch the Big Red square off against Richmond. Despite the large partisan crowd in Richardson Stadium, the Red and Black Machine could not contain Richmond's Spiders. Out to fight and looking mean, the ‘Cats fell 20-7.

MISS PENE TURNER 1964 Homecoming Queen

Raid Kills ‘Em Dead

By AL CARSON Davidsonian Feature Writer

All was not lost though. Halftime offered Dr. Tom Scott’s crowning of one of 13 lovely ladies as Davidson's Homecoming Queen 1964-65. The young lady so honored was Miss Pene Turner, a University of Georgia coed sponsored by the KA’s. Rick von Unwerth announced the judges’ decision on the Homecoming displays. Awards were as follows: Honorable Mention, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Third Place, ATO; Second Place, the Pikas; and First were the Sigma Chis with a giant spider “killed dead" by an equally large can of Raid. Ingeniously, the Sigma Chi pledges had attached a garden hose to the simulated Raid can to produce the illusion of sprayed insecticide.

Even in the face of Friday's gray weather, Davidson had a record number of alumni who returned with their families to their alma mater. Bill Bondurant, director of alumni activities, commented that he was “extremely pleased” with the turnout. “It was particularly gratifying to note the large numbers of alumni who participated in all phases of Homecoming. They did not merely limit themselves to the barbecue dinner and football game. Many came early to see the Radugas and stayed late for the Saturday night concert.”

The IFC’s presentation on Saturday night opened with Senor Sabicas, Flamenco guitarist. Flamenco guitar is an entertainment field of limited interest, but Senor Sabicas’ quiet appeal and extraordinary mastery of his instrument overcame any obstacles between him and his audience. His “Thank you very much. And now—Malaguena,” made him an unqualified success. Sabicas was a difficult act to follow, but the duo of Ian and Sylvia performed admirably. The show was long, but never boring.

Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, faced some trying moments in the early hours of the weekend, her first “big” one at Davidson, when 50 students appeared at the end of last week with 50 homeless waifs for dates. Undaunted, however, Mrs. Nicholls located a pallet for every one.

Homecoming 1964 suffered no really sour events. The weather cleared. There were no serious accidents. And each of Davidson's best returned to class Monday morning—safe, sound, and bleary-eyed.

OATH NOT THE ONLY CONCERN

The trustees also required that similar questions be put in a ceremony to its own prospective members, and it stipulated what requirements would be made of present faculty members and trustees. The action appeared in the form of amendments to the by-laws; according to the by-laws, such amendments must be ratified at the next meeting by two-thirds of the trustees present, before they become effective.

NEW FACULTY MEMBERS

The amendment regarding prospective faculty members reads, in part, as follows: “The Administration, before nominating a faculty member shall request of the individual concerned an answer in writing to at least the following questions.

“a. Do you approve the purpose of Davidson as stated by the Trustees?

“b. Of what evangelical church are you a member?

“c. Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as Lord and Saviour and do you believe in the fundamental teachings of Evangelical Christianity?

“d. Do you accept the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament as the revelation of God’s will, the final guide in matters of faith and practice?

“e. If appointed to the Faculty of Davidson College, would it be your purpose, in reliance upon Divine Grace, so to live and teach as to promote the purpose of the college and to give expression to the Christian faith?”

In a DAVIDSONIAN interview Saturday, Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of the board, explained the amendments and their meaning.

DAVIDSON CONTRIBUTION

He first pointed out the purpose of the measures. With these steps, he said, the trustees “try to maintain the Christian commitment of Davidson College, which we consider its principal contribution in the field of education.”

When asked what groups the term “evangelical” might cover, as it appears in items “b.” and “c.,” Richards said, “Generally speaking, this is used in the sense of ‘protestant.’” He said that it would not rule out the Greek Orthodox Church which participates in the World Council of Churches and the National Council of Churches. He added, however, “I don’t think we would find a Roman Catholic that would desire a position here,” and a Unitarian church member would not be accepted. He said that he foresaw little additional difficulty in getting new faculty members because of the new procedures. “I think it will not keep a man of Christian faith from Davidson.”

Richards acknowledged that the special requirement concerning teachers in the departments of Bible and philosophy might cause some trouble. These men, unless “outstanding both in scholarship and in Christian faith,” as the amendment states, must be committed to the standards of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. Richards said regarding philosophy, “This is perhaps the hardest field we have in which to get a thoroughly competent professor.”

“REASONABLE SOLUTION”

President D. Grier Martin discussed the trustees move in an interview on Tuesday. “This seems to me to be a reasonable solution to a very difficult problem,” he said. He indicated that initial faculty response was favorable to the proposal. “I have had some testimony from faculty members since this was done that they could live with this.”

Martin commended the relationship that existed between the trustees and the faculty members during the working-out of the new position. “This has demonstrated the ability of the faculty and trustees to sit down and reason things out in a dialogue that was very wonderful to see and experience.”

NEW TRUSTEES

In further action, the trustees approved amendments which would require newly-elected trustees to be “active members of some Evangelical Christian church”; to answer questions: “a.”“e.,” and “d.” above, in a ceremony conducted by the president of the trustees at the beginning of the first meeting attended by each new trustee; and to answer at the same time the following question: “In accepting office as a trustee do you undertake to be faithful in promoting the purpose of the college and in seeking to increase its effectiveness as an institution of Christian learning?” Richards pointed out that by this action the trustees and the faculty now are expected to embrace substantially “the same set of broad Christian principles,” while their commitments are fitted to their role in the college.

CURRENT AFFILIATIONS

The situation of present faculty members and trustees was also covered by an amendment: “All members of the faculty prior to attaining tenure or to their next promotion in rank and all present members of the trustees shall be asked to reply in writing to the question ‘e.’ under section 82 (‘e.’ above). Question e shall be altered to read: In accepting your new status as a member of the Faculty, is it your continuing purpose, so to live and teach as to promote the purpose of the college and to give expression to the Christian Faith.” The statement continues: “In requesting this statement the Administration shall explain to those concerned that this is requested not as an inquisition, or through any lack of confidence, but because of our belief that the relationship of all faculty members and all trustees to the college should be basically the same.” He said that the content of the amendments was reached “after full consultation with members of the faculty, particularly with Dr. Martin and Dr. Johnston.”

Poll Shows Faculty Disagrees

By BOB VANCE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Nineteen faculty members disapproved of the religious test now pending as a substitute for the present faculty vow, a poll of the faculty revealed this week. Of the 34 professors responding to the Davidsonian poll, 10 approved of the substitute test, while five had no comment. Twenty of those polled said that they disapproved of the present faculty vow, and of these, three supported the substitute religious test. Of the ten professors who approved of the present vow, six approved the religious test. Two faculty members had no comment on the present vow and one of those approved the substitute religious test. The poll questionnaires were distributed to all 83 of the members of the faculty, and the 34 who responded represent 41 percent of the faculty.

Among the faculty members who approved both the present vow and the proposed religious test, one replied that “a professor in a church college may be reasonably expected to take some kind of vow.” Expressing a different point of view, another professor stated that “the psychology behind a required oath is not consistent with the fundamental assumptions of higher education.” In agreement with this view was another professor who felt that “a vow is personally insulting—faith is a matter of behavior, not belief.” One of the professors who expressed disapproval of the present vow, but who approved the substitute religious test explained his views by saying that the religious test is “about as good as any so far proposed—I can live with it.” One supporter of the vow and pending test explained: “I realize that others feel that it is crucial so far as they are concerned, but I can be no more than sympathetic since I do not personally share their resentment to oaths, vows, and like statements.” Wrote one opponent: “This new proposal, because of its vastly wider application, is even less in accord with the oft-trumpeted desire of the administration to create here in North Mecklenburg a superior liberal arts college than was the older requirement. One wonders what the Ford Foundation, to whose largesse Davidson is currently laying suit, will think of the Trustees’ stated conception of Davidson as the ‘teaching arm of the church.’ Academic excellence and theological orthodoxy make incompatible classmates.”

Davidson College should a religious vow. I approve of pending vow. I approve of present vow.

IFC ANNOUNCES FALL CONCERT PLANS (See Page Three)

NUMBER SIX

Faculty Oath History Reveals Long Dissent

By BOB HOLLADAY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Davidson College has been a long time in feeling its way toward the new stand regarding the religious affiliations of its faculty members. The oath was defended in THE DAVIDSONIAN by Dean of the Faculty C. K. Brown. He supported it on two counts—(1) the oath was a part of the Reformed tradition, and (2) the college had the right to require the oath as a means of keeping Davidson close to the church. The student newspaper argued with Brown, saying that there was a difference between “freedom” and “right.” “Davidson has the freedom to require any oath it sees fit, but it does not necessarily have the right.”

In 1958, the paper polled 62 faculty members, finding a 75 percent approval of the oath among Davidson’s mentors.

CRITICISM FOUND

The paper also uncovered criticism of the oath, however. Some men felt that it restricted the number of capable men who would wish to teach at Davidson. Others disagreed with the time and place of the oath’s administration. One faculty member seemed prophetic of the new trustee decision when he commented, “These questions could be put to a man at the time of initial employment. They certainly do not belong at a commencement exercise before a strange audience.”

In 1963, the oath became an issue when some faculty members who were opposed to the oath urged the faculty to recommend that the trustees change or abolish it. The oath was to be administered at commencement to full professors only, at the time of their inauguration. The candidate was to answer three “yeas” to the following questions:

“(a) Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as Lord and Saviour and do you believe in the fundamental teachings of evangelical Christianity?
“(b) Do you believe the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament to be the word of God, the only infallible rule of faith and practice?
“(c) Do you promise in humble reliance upon the grace of God which comes by the Holy Spirit, so to live and teach as to give expression to the Christian faith?”

STRONG OPPOSITION

THE DAVIDSONIAN of that year quoted President D. G. Martin as saying that faculty opposition was strong: “I think it is probable that the great majority of the faculty do not want to have this (oath) to work under.” One faculty member thought that the oath was inconsistent with the college’s attitude: “The oath harms the real attitude the college has and puts us in an association with a group of narrow and bigoted colleges. The oath does not represent us as we really are.” Another professor argued that the oath hurt the college’s chances of getting new faculty members, while other men supported the oath, defending the college’s desire through the oath to retain its close church-college relationship.

FACULTY QUESTIONNAIRE

Reporting faculty opinion about the oath (learned by way of a questionnaire distributed to the faculty) to the trustees during the Board’s meeting that February, Martin said, “The main objection of the majority of those opposed to the oath seems to be in the manner in which it is administered (at public graduation exercises).” Martin and President of the Trustees J. McDowell Richards said that there seemed to be little objection to the spirit of the oath. They said that the solution would probably be a compromise in which the oath was kept in the same form but would be administered privately, as part of the hiring process. The controversy was referred to the Trustee Education Committee. At the subsequent meeting of the trustees, however, the committee’s report was deferred to the meeting of February, 1964.

CHANGES MADE

At that gathering this year, the form of the oath was changed, the oath was given wider coverage, and the conditions of its administering were also altered. The new vow consisted of two questions:

“1. Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as Lord and Saviour as revealed in the Holy Scripture and will you endeavor to live a life consistent with this profession?
“2. Do you dedicate yourself to the vocation of teaching and will you seek faithfully to perform the task of teacher, to inform the minds of students and to create in them a thirst for knowledge, a love of wisdom, and a reverence for truth?”

All men eligible for tenure were to be required to take the oath at a commissioning service held in the col-

(Continued on Page Six)

Faculty Views Trustee Action

YES NO
15 16
YES NO
YES NO
10 3
0 16
YES NO
YES NO
YES NO
YES NO
5 3
2 1
0 0
0 16

(Note: figures in some columns do not add up to totals because some spaces on the questionnaire were left blank by professors answering the poll.)