FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Johnson Sweeps Mock Election In Landslide; Goldwater Slips By Lodge For Republicans

Barring Catastrophe, LBJ Will Win By Huge Edge

BY DAVID STITT

Barring some completely unforeseen catastrophe, Lyndon Johnson will win the 1964 Presidential election by an awesome landslide. Recent nationwide polls, conducted to determine the popularity of various presidential candidates, have consistently shown that 75 percent or better of the American voters are satisfied with Johnson and would favor him over any other candidate. Obviously, he cannot maintain a lead like that for too long, but even if he does not, who's going to beat him? No other Democratic candidate is even under consideration, and so far the Republican showing hasn’t been very strong.

Barry Goldwater has long passed his high-water mark. Before the November assassination of President Kennedy, Goldwater had picked up a phenomenally loyal following, but he was building his campaign on a shaky foundation of attacks on a personality. Then the personality wasn't there anymore and the bottom fell out. That plus the fact that because the assassination happened in Dallas, a widespread distrust of the extreme right (which must be linked with Goldwater) exists despite its having been cleared by the investigators of any part in the assassination.

Goldwater has since been attempting to build the same type of campaign via a series of attacks on President Johnson and his policies, but because of Johnson's tremendous popularity, Goldwater is largely falling flat on his face. Nelson (Hiya) Rockefeller has strong qualifications and a good record as New York governor, but his ideas are not that different from Johnson's and he has personal problems going against him. Harold (Boy Wonder) Stassen’s chances look rather slim, and Henry Cabot Lodge is not known well enough to offer a serious threat. William Scranton and George Romney likewise suffer from underexposure, and Romney is having troubles of his own in Michigan now. And finally, although Richard Nixon is certainly well-known, he is best known to millions of Americans as a two-time loser, and if he runs again, he may have to do something about his foot being in his mouth as far as the press is concerned.

‘Boy Wonder’ Dick Nixon

Whoever is finally nominated to run against Johnson will probably attack the President on three counts. First, on the grounds that Johnson is “provincial” and thus will have trouble with foreign policy; secondly, Johnson’s so-called “wheeler-dealer” method of operation will be assailed; and thirdly, Johnson will be called “two-faced” for his stands on certain issues, oddly enough including civil rights.

Johnson's knowledge of foreign affairs was no doubt limited prior to his becoming Vice-President in 1960, but in that office, he was given what amounted to a cram course in foreign policy. In 1961 he went to Southeast Asia and continued around the world. Later that year he went to Berlin when the wall went up. In 1962 he went to the Middle East, and in 1963 traveled to Scandinavia and other European countries.

As for the second charge, Johnson's favorite quotation is one from Isaiah, “Come now, let us reason together.” He is often portrayed as a “wheeler-dealer,” and there is no denying that he is an active politician. He is a master at effecting continuing compromises which eventually get him where he wanted to go to begin with. The latest charge of wheeler-dealering to be brought against Johnson involves, of course, Bobby Baker, but such is far from the first charge of that nature. Perhaps the most frequently-mentioned dealerism which may or may not have involved Johnson occurred in 1948 when LBJ was running against former Texas Governor Coke Stevenson for the Senate. Johnson won the election by 87 votes out of 988,295 cast after some votes arrived late from South Texas. Stevenson charged fraud, but the votes (Continued On Page Four)

POLL RESULTS

If you were voting in a Republican presidential primary, which of the following would be your candidate:
Barry Goldwater 27%
Richard Nixon 13%
Henry Cabot Lodge 19%
George Romney 8%
Nelson Rockefeller 17%
Margaret Chase Smith 1%
William Scranton 17%
Harold Stassen 5%

How would you vote if the following ran against Lyndon Johnson:
Goldwater 26% Johnson 74%
Rockefeller 28% Johnson 71%
Nixon 30% Johnson 68%
Scranton 30% Johnson 70%

If you were voting in the North Carolina Democratic gubernatorial primary, which of the following would be your candidate:
L. Richardson Preyer 62%
I. Beverly Lake 9%
Bozo Burleson 21%
Dan K. Moore 8%

Rockefeller Would Provide Effective And Decisive Leadership

BY PHILIP B. SECOR
Professor of Political Science

This is my week for political frustration! Yesterday, my self-imposed task was to compose a letter to Senator Sam Ervin, Jr., urging him to support the Civil Rights Bill. (Wow!) Today my task is to urge the presidential candidacy of Nelson Rockefeller to a largely conservative and southern audience. Obviously, many, if not most, of you hold political values (opinions?) different from mine so my arguments are not likely to convince you. About all I can hope to do is to tell you why I favor Rockefeller and how I see him distinguished from the other presidential candidates now in the field.

Mostly, I'm fed up with the lack of commitment and moral indecisiveness which I see as characteristic of American political leadership since the early decades of this century. This indecisiveness has, it seems to me, taken two major directions: (1) the short, frightened stop and start steppings of the political pragmatists: here we have seen the respectable cloak of “realism," “practicality,” “common sense," and “moderation.”

‘Goldwater Can Win’ As Only Conservative

BY BRUCE STEIGNER

It is my belief that Senator Barry Goldwater can win the 1964 election for the Presidency of the United States. Senator Goldwater is the leading candidate for the Republican nomination, and the only conservative candidate for the Presidency itself. Senator Goldwater has often been criticized by his many “Liberal” opponents for his stand on practically all issues, foreign and domestic. I shall undertake to set forth the Senator’s position on these basic issues as I see it:

First, in the field of foreign relations, Goldwater favors a firm stand against our Communist enemies: he would threaten to withdraw diplomatic relations from the USSR in order to gain major concessions from them, e.g., removal of the Berlin Wall, free elections in Cuba. Specifically, Goldwater would attempt to enforce the Monroe Doctrine in Cuba by setting up a strict blockade of Cuba and by supplying massive aid and encouragement to anti-Castro underground liberation forces. He would abandon the Yalta-type strategy that is forcing us out.

Dodging Political Anonymity

BY BOB STRAUSER

Once the Boy Wonder of the Republican Party, Richard M. Nixon faces a different task in 1964, at the age of 51, merely in escaping political anonymity. Today, at a time when most of his political virtues have been forgotten, many of his past sins have returned to haunt him.

After his discharge from the Navy in 1945 (He had reached the rank of Lieutenant Commander), he accepted an invitation from the California Republican organization to run for the House of Representatives. In 1946 he defeated New Deal champion Jerry Voorhis for the office and was re-elected in ‘48. In 1949 Nixon resigned from the House to run for the Senate against Helen Gahagan Douglas. As a Representative he had been active in the House Un-American Activities Committee’s investigation of Alger Hiss and Whittaker Chambers. Once again a candidate, Nixon made much political hay from his anti-Communist record. Mrs. Douglas was subjected to an investigation of her voting record in the House, where she had served on the Foreign Affairs Committee. The campaign quickly became a heated one. Mrs. Douglas accused her opponent of “witch hunting;” her staff claimed Nixon was responsible for a telephone whispering campaign. Nixon retorted that Mrs. Douglas’s election would be a blow to Americanism.

After the outbreak of hostilities in Korea, Mrs. Douglas was ruined, along with many other Democratic candidates, by her association with the NIXON administration. Nixon carried the election by 670,000 votes, winning all but 7 California Counties. After serving undramatically in the Senate for 2 years, Nixon was an attractive choice to fill out the Eisenhower ticket in 1952. In the late summer of 1952, however, he came under Democratic charges of accepting campaign money for personal use. At a cost of $75,000, Nixon appeared before a national television and radio audience to explain his situation. In the now famous “Checkers” speech, he painted a picture of a striving, near-destitute young patriot fighting for the survival of America. He pointed out that his wife wore “a good Republican, cloth coat" because he could afford no better; he noted he had received a dog from some admirers. His children had named the dog “Checkers” and were quite attached to it. With all the vehemence he had poured forth in his HUAC attacks, he absolutely refused to give up the dog. In conclusion, and as somewhat of an anticlimax, he produced a statement from Price, Waterhouse and Co. of Los Angeles to the effect that he had not profited from campaign contributions which had loaned $18,235. The public response to the speech was favorable and Nixon (Continued On Page Four)of the Far East and draining our strength in a no-win war in Vietnam. In his words, “The major objective of US foreign policy should be the reduction of Communist power to a level from which it cannot threaten the security of our nation or the peace of the world.” Senator Goldwater's position on the United Nations is this: We should threaten to withdraw from the UN if the Soviet bloc and other “neutralist” nations do not pay up the dues they now owe; we should withdraw from the UN if Red China is admitted. Senator Goldwater sees the NATO alliance as a far more practical tool for winning a workable peace than the UN. Senator Goldwater voted against the test ban treaty because he found it misleading, dangerous, and silly. (1) Misleading, since it encouraged us to believe that an unenforceable promise from the USSR is worth concrete concessions from us. We have seen in the past how much the Communists honor their promises. (2) Dangerous, because we are deprived of the testing of large and small-yield weapons the Soviets undertook in 1962. (3) Silly, because it prohibits us from such non-military uses of atomic explosions as (Continued On Page Four).

GOLDWATER

thrown over what is often actually moral cowardice; fear, equivocation, and “all-things-to-all-people” politics; and (2) the hackneyed, cliched, two-valued moralizing of the confused children-statesmen who are as afraid of relevant moral commitments as their tiny-minded pragmatic counterparts; here we have seen the respectable cloak of “crusade for freedom,” “Save our children from atheistic communism,” and “free enterprise” thrown over what is all too frequently a muddled confusion about how to resolve complicated problems, a fear of the present and the future, a childlike desire to return to the comfort of an idealized past, and a dangerously irrelevant doctrinization of real moral alternatives into potentially violent either-or-isms, like “red or dead,” “free or slave,” “private initiative or public welfare,” “atheistic communism or Christian democracy.” Now what I want is neither the pragmatic opportunism which seems characteristic of most Democratic presidents since Wilson, nor the muddied moralism of the irrelevantly clean-cut bright young men of Eisenhower Republicanism. As I survey the cast of hopefuls, the one who seems the least prone to either of these undesirable tendencies—and I recognize that all politicians, like all men, are necessarily victimized by both to a marked degree—is Governor Rockefeller. Of course, one must begin with some ideas of his own, however tentatively, even gingerly, he holds them, if he is ever to desire, let alone find, a candidate holding any opinions as to the best solutions to actual problems. If one begins with the mentality of a morally frightened pragmatist and desires to incarnate his littleness in the White House, then his choice will differ from mine. If, on the other hand, one is a fuzzy moralizer, there are probably several options for him among this year's hopefuls.

ROCKEFELLER

What I like about Rockefeller is what I will call his obvious love of life and power, his healthy and creative sense of humor about the moral demands of power in an era which lacks much faith as to the proper directions of power. (This is “sense of humor” a la Professor Bliss’ excellent lecture in Humanities 22 on “humor” and the “comic” response to the human predicament.) Rockefeller impresses me—and maybe he’s just good at fooling politically liberal academicians—as the most literate, morally decisive, and clearly-positioned of the candidates. I think I can say of Rockefeller that I support him because (1) I know what he regards as the best response to some problems, (2) I agree with most of these responses, (3) he seems to have the intelligence and experience necessary to make a noble effort to realize his ideas. Of course, I can be mistaken in this but I do feel more certain about Rockefeller in these three particulars than I do about any other candidate. Here is a very brief check sheet to give you some examples. On civil rights, Rockefeller’s position is clear in terms of his statements and his record in New York State. I am in substantial agreement with him here. On the government’s role in the economy, his record and his statements are also quite clear. He is for sound management of public policies. He is businessman enough to prize good management principles and techniques and he is socially-oriented enough to desire that government take a leading role in outlining the broad directions of social and economic policy. I agree.

In the area of foreign affairs, I must rely mostly on my high regard for the man's intelligence and moral courage. Conditions change too rapidly to permit any candidate to express clear positions in advance. I must confess, however, that none of the candidates, including Rockefeller, come as close as John Kennedy did to expressing my desire for experimenting with new postures in foreign policy. (Continued On Page Four).

primary, and Lyndon Johnson across the board presidential primary candidates came anywhere close to a majority in the heaviest voting (485 out of 492 replies) of the poll. Barry Goldwater led with 21% (101) closely followed by Henry Cabot Lodge, 19% (93). Nelson Rockefeller and William Scranton each received 17%, but the New Yorker was favored by one vote, 83-82. Richard Nixon got 62 votes for 13%, George Romney, 41 for 8%, and Margaret Chase Smith and Harold Stassen six and two votes, respectively. Voting in projected national elections varied from 447 (Goldwater Johnson) to 456 (Scranton Johnson), but in every case, President Johnson received a sizeable majority. Nixon, fifth-runner in the primary poll, did best against Johnson with 32% of the votes (146-304). Scranton, fourth in the primary, pulled an even 30% (135-321). Goldwater, with a meager plurality against other Republicans, could only get 26% against Johnson (118-329), while Rockefeller made the worst showing at 23% (104-347). Several students, feeling the ballots too restrictive, made additional comments on the presidential race. One saw Bozo as the only hope against LBJ. Another voted Rockefeller in the primary, Johnson in the election, “for the party.” One loyal party member was more explicit: he voted for Zorro in the primary and Johnson down the line with the non-too cryptic remark, “I hate Republicans.” Most of the 86 students who didn’t vote on the North Carolina race just left the ballot blank, or replied with question marks. One replied, “I don't live in N.C. and consequently know little about them.” Others didn't know, or had no idea, while one Bozo voter qualified his ballot with a question mark and the statement, “not completely cognizant of N.C. political situation.”

Adams: ‘Scranton Would Run In Case Of Deadlock’

BY BOB ADAMS

Self-assured, conservative William Warren Scranton of Pennsylvania has changed the outlook of his constituency from defeatism to confidence since assuming the governorship in January, 1963. His leadership has won him high standing in the list of Republican presidential possibilities, yet Scranton remains non-committal about his entering the race. At present, Scranton is ill-equipped to enter a national contest, lacking funds and grassroots organization despite Philadelphia industrialist Tom McCabe's efforts to advertise the governor's virtues to select groups of Republican influentials across the country. Time still remains to create a national organization within the party, assert Scranton supporters like Dwight Eisenhower, but all agree that the young aristocrat must make a commitment soon after March 10 or shelve his national bid for another four years. Why March 10? This is the date of the New Hampshire primary, the first of three which will either determine the Republican candidate or open the race to Scranton and other G.O.P. hopefuls. The New Hampshire, Oregon, and California primaries will definitely eliminate Scranton as a potential nominee if they produce an irrepressible trend toward either Rockefeller or Goldwater. Even if the primary results show a toss-up in New Hampshire and further indecision in Oregon, Scranton supporters do not guarantee that their leader will seek nomination. Scranton likes to be assured he will have solid backing as indicated by his reluctance to run for governor in 1962 until every G.O.P. county chairman in Pennsylvania had pledged his support. If the primaries should indicate a deadlock between Rockefeller and Goldwater, Republicans will be anxiously seeking insurance against the disaster of party indecision. Scranton would most likely accept a nomination under such conditions. Meanwhile, though, Scranton has been vigorously implementing his policies to awaken prosperity in the dormant, in fact, depressed economy of Pennsylvania. The young aristocrat has only recently gained political prominence but his numerous accomplishments merit national attention. In 1959, John Foster Dulles asked Bill Scranton to become his personal, high-level briefing officer. A year later, Scranton returned to his native 10th Congressional District to accept a draft for the House. He carried his district by 17,000 votes the year Kennedy polled 15,000 in the same district. Dwight Eisenhower in 1961 urged the freshman Congressman to run for governor. Scranton carried the Keystone State by an overwhelming plurality of 486,000. Now, Eisenhower is urging the governor to seriously consider the presidency. Though it is too early to assess Scranton as governor, the accomplishments he has effected in 14 months demonstrate he has been outstanding to present. He started from behind, far behind, in a state whose unemployment was 50% higher than the national average, whose appropriations for higher education were 47th among the 50 states, and whose miners and steelworkers were in such need that one-twelfth the annual income earned by Pennsylvanians was earned as welfare payments, unemployment compensation, and social security payments. In this declining economy Scranton has at great political risk raised sales tax rates to 5% on all consumer items except food, medicine, and clothing—thus balancing the budget and providing for his reform of the educational system. The new income has raised teachers’ salaries, increased local school (Continued On Page Four).