DAVIDSONIAN URGES DEFERRED RUSH (See Page Two) VOL. LIV. RICK VON UNWERTH A Stronger Program for Independents Staff Photos by Thel BOB YOUNG Advocates Sophomore Rush The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. ‘Fraternity Talk Rouses Dormant Student Body Young Poses Question: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1964 Von Unwerth Defends The controversy over fraternities, which was ignited in assembly talks Monday and Tuesday, flamed to a blaze before a crowd of 300, mostly students, in an Open End discussion Wednesday night in the Morrison Room. Protagonists Bob Young, former fraternity liaison officer, and Rick von Unwerth, president of the IFC, led the three-hour discussion. Alex Bernhardt opened the questions by asking Young exactly what the administration, which has thrown the whole problem of the “rejected 27 percent” into the laps of the fraternities, plans to do to help. He stated that the fraternities are willing to be of any help they can, but questioned the administration's willingness. In answer, Young said that maybe “today the fraternities do express a willingness to help, but before last week such a willingness was doubtful” and if this question is allowed to slide, tomorrow such a willingness will once again have disappeared. He stated that last spring the IFC turned down Lingle Manor’s request that the group be permitted to extend Manor bids through the IFC's “brown envelope” to those boys who got no other bids. At this point von Unwerth interrupted to state that the IFC and the Lingle Manor representative had agreed not to follow the above proposal, because it might be regarded as a slap in the face to the boys receiving no other bids. They did, however, agree to allow Lingle Manor to participate in the pledge regatta, homecoming, and other projects. INCENTIVE HURT Agreeing with this, Young reminded von Unwerth that although Lingle Manor would pay for part of the regatta, they would be allowed no trophy should they win. “This,” he insisted, “eats away at the soul of Lingle Manor.” Such a policy of only partial participation represents a “stifling of success of any independent organization on campus.” Von Unwerth, setting aside the re-statement by Bernhardt of his question as to the plans of the college to aid the independents, proposed solutions. As Robert C. Young, member of the Administration, alumnus, and former fraternity man of Davidson College, spoke in assembly Monday, he issued a challenge to the students, and especially to the fraternity members: “I challenge you to define again, and to find again, the idea of fraternity and its place on the Davidson campus today.” In doing so, he gave two concrete proposals for the reorganization of the fraternity system: 1) Sophomore Rush, and 2) 100% bidding. Four benefits of the Sophomore Rush proposition, according to Young, are that it will enable the freshman to become settled before he is forced to make a decision. It will provide time for the freshman to engage in extracurricular activities. It will lessen the tension of having to make a decision on one week's experience with fraternity members. The fraternities will be able to re-evaluate their own position on campus in regard to life at Davidson. The advantage in the 100% bidding system is that it will enable the rushees to choose for themselves the fraternity they wish to join, rather than being accepted or rejected on the basis of one week. According to Young, there has been much concern over the position of fraternities both nationally and on the Davidson campus. This has been fostered, he said, by the indication that “fraternities are interested in something entirely different from what they say they are.” Though they say that they are interested in the individual, they bid only those whom they think best fill the mold of the fraternity. Also, once he has pledged, the individuality of the freshman is categorized as “rough edges” by the brothers, and these edges are “destroyed during Pledge Training.” Another evil of the present system, Young pointed out, is the terrible hurt placed upon the rushee who is rejected. When he arrives at Davidson, the freshman is told by everyone he meets that “the College is concerned for his welfare as an individual.” Then as Pledge Saturday approaches, there arises the possibility that he may be rejected — “not just ignored and subtly ostracized, but officially and resoundingly rejected by 73% of the student body.” Young declared that fraternities under the present system have no place on the Davidson campus. Fraternity men, he said, are able to view and argue objectively the aspects of the Campus Community, but are totally without reason when the question of fraternities arises. This is their “sacred cow” which cannot be blasphemed. In an environment channeled to the learning process and to the maturing of the mind, stated Young, the picture of the Davidson fraternity man under the present system is certainly incongruous. What kind of maturity, he asked, is expressed by “the most emotional kind of catharsis,” such as, with “tear-filled eyes” shaking the hand and welcoming the new Pledge on Pledge Saturday, or sadly stepping into the street to wish “Good Luck” to the rushee who is passing by the house. And what kind of maturity is shown by such emotional activities as cult-like “hymns, testimonials, ritual, personality healings, tears, and orgiastic rites on selected Saturday nights.” Administrator Strikes At Fraternity System By HEYWARD CARTER Davidsonian Feature Writer IFC President Rick Von Unwerth, in chapel Tuesday presented to the student body the views of the IFC on proposed fraternity system changes, and his personal comment on a talk given by Bob Young the day before. Agreeing with Young that fraternity association in some cases tends to mold a member's character and to knock off the “rough edges” of some of its brothers, von Unwerth asked if perhaps such a character as is molded by this association “by its nature... actually seeks a mold.” As to the “rough edges” which the fraternity may tend to smooth off, he contended that those rough edges are better gone if they keep the individual from entering fully into a world of “social security” which will extend far beyond the confines of his own particular fraternity. Recounting the evils in the present system stated the previous day by Young, von Unwerth found that four major points had been brought up. First of all, there is the “immediate confrontation of the freshman with a magnified social concern” and the haste for a decision which he is not ready to make. True, this does sometimes result in mistakes by both freshmen and fraternities, but “is it not possible that a strong freshman can measurably invigorate a weak fraternity,” and vice versa? FROSH SOCIAL LIFE Another point brought up against sophomore bidding is that a freshman’s social life under such a system would be almost nil. This social aspect may seem superficial to some, but after all, aren’t the fraternities specifically designed as social fraternities? And do they not provide almost the entire social life of the college—a social life which the college itself so completely neglects? As to the criticism of pledge programs taking too much of the pledge’s time in meaningless activity — this may have been true at one time but not any more. Now the average pledge program provides a system whereby the pledge has a big-brother to help him, tutorial service, compulsory study hall, and social projects on which he is required to work. If these are bad for the pledge and if they are a waste of his time, he must be a truly remarkable student, the IFC president maintained. Concerning the tendency of a fraternity pledge to become too closely associated with his fellows, to the exclusion of others, von Unwerth pointed out that a pledge's close association with the “BMOC” in his fraternity is a means of opening his eyes to the possibilities of extra-curricular activities at Davidson College, and these “BMOCs” can serve as ready-made guides and advisors for him as he strives to follow their example. LOCALS NEEDED Lastly, the so-called “rejection” of 27% of the student body is now as pronounced as it is because of the lack of social resources which the independent finds open to him. This could be somewhat lessened by the formation of one or two eating clubs or “locals” which would offer the independent advantages which Lingle Manor is now not able to provide, von Unwerth proposed. This brings us to the conclusion that “the main trauma in being rejected by the fraternities is largely the realization that the independent has no resources for social life.” But is this entirely the fault of the fraternities? They have, by merely existing, accepted responsibility for 73% of the school's social life. The college, however, has made no move to aid the other 27%. Does it not seem that this is also a problem of the college which now shows itself to be so concerned? And further, does it not seem that to the greatest concern belongs the greatest responsibility? And that concern belongs to the college.” Rev. J. B. Evans To Speak Sunday This week’s vesper speaker will be the Rev. John B. Evans, Executive Secretary of the Division of Higher Education of the Board of Christian Education of the Presbyterian Church, U. S. Rev. Evans, who is an alumnus of Davidson, received his BD from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. Following study in Scotland, Evans returned to Davidson, where he taught Bible for four years. He was pastor of First Church in Auburn, Ala. before assuming his present duties in Richmond, Va.‘27 per cent,” urged a move to less specific questions, such as the problem of 100% bidding. Answering this, Bobby Waites asked Young what was to prevent the collapse of certain fraternities which were required to take members which their constitutions forbade by reason of race or religion. To this Young simply answered, “Nothing at all, and in such cases the loss is slight, if not beneficial to the student body as a whole.”

Bob Jones, assistant dean of students, next asked von Unwerth if he (von Unwerth) felt that there was “a social stigma put on boys not accepted in any fraternity,” and if so, did he feel that the fraternities were responsible. Von Unwerth replied that he did feel there was some stigma attached, but that the fraternities were responsible only in that, were there no fraternities, there would be no stigma.

IFC Secretary Fred Sackett here pointed out that the idea of a stigma is attached not only to those boys who joined no fraternity, but also to the particular fraternity joined, in some cases. Young then asked if the choice of joining a fraternity or being independent was really a choice at all or merely an alternative. To this Sackett cited numerous men on the campus who have the respect of the entire student body. Such men as these could, in the future, lead to the establishment and maintenance of the proposed eating clubs, he maintained.

Charlie Dibble here countered by pointing to the small number of independents who have joined Lingle Manor. “Therefore,” he asked, “why should these men in the future support any other type of independent organization even though it could provide such advantages as a more complete social program and eating at the house, which Lingle Manor, after all, cannot provide?”

UNB KAPPA SIGS REMAIN EATEN IN IMAC (See Page Three)

NUMBER NINE JAZZ GROUP TOMORROW

IFC Weekend Starts With Dance Tonight

The Herbie Mann Sextet will highlight the IFC fall concert weekend at 8 p.m. Saturday night. The Sextet is an apt representative of the jazz undercurrent that is coming to the forefront of his American musical preference. Mann and his five instrumental colleagues are equally at home in the dimly lit, electric atmosphere of night clubs and the unaffected enthusiastic reception of college audiences.

Mann, the official leader of the group, is an artful composer in his own right. His personal thrust into creative jazz has consisted of uncovering basic folk rhythms in such areas as Africa and South America and infusing these with the characteristic jazz strains native to America. The fruits of his labor bear such titles as “Desafinado” and “Girl from Ipanema.” The Herbie Mann Sextet will present in its concert selected pieces from Mann's personal collection of original endeavor as well as numerous familiar favorites, for example, “Summertime” and “Coming Home Baby.” One member of the entourage who promises to bear particularly close attention is Chief Bey, an African percussionist complete with robe and spirited beat accompaniment.

The appearance of Mann on the stage of IFC concerts is a new innovation. Rick von Unwerth, president of the IFC, has earlier stated that this week's concert represents a conscious effort to bring to Davidson something different from the usual sight and sound of “sad-eyed, doom-forecasting folk singers,” which the college community has been saturated with of late.

The Saturday night program will climax a weekend of varied entertainment. On the preceding Friday night from 7:30 until 11:30 there will be a dance, sponsored cooperatively by the College Union and the IFC, in the basement of Chambers Building. Music will be provided by the “Catalinas.” Again, this is a novel feature of the current IFC season, for previously the council has been able to provide only three two-night weekends. On Saturday afternoon at 2, the Davidson football team will vie to better its 2-5 record as the Wildcats meet Lafayette College.

Davidson Graduate To Speak Friday

The Rev. J. Stewart Meacham, Peace Education Secretary of the American Friends Service Committee, will speak in chapel Friday, Nov. 20, in place of next week’s Thursday chapel. Meacham, a native of Ohio, graduated from Davidson in 1931. Upon receiving his BD from Union Theological Seminary in New York, he served for two years as a Presbyterian minister. After holding positions with the National Labor Relations Board, the Department of Labor, and the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, he became a Methodist missionary to India. In addition to his present position as Peace Education Secretary, Meacham is a member of the Committee on World Literature of the National Council of Churches.

Council Postpones Taking Stand On Vow

Student Council voted to take a stand on the faculty oath issue Monday night but deferred formulating the stand until next spring, nearer the time when the Trustees will vote on the ratification of those amendments to the oath which were outlined at their meeting last month. Deferment of the stand was proposed and accepted on the consideration that the council's position might be more clearly formulated after the issue had developed more fully. Most of the representatives felt that it was the duty of the Student Council to take such a stand. Only three of the twelve present voted against the plan. One member said he knew of a number of faculty members who had said that they would feel compelled to leave the college if the oath issue were not resolved to their liking. It was pointed out that such action as this would have a definite effect on the academic community.

In other business, the council voted down a proposal to grant a $25 subsidy to the Queens College delegation to the Associated Student Governments Convention in Oklahoma City, Okla. this fall. Such a grant, it was argued, would insure Davidson’s receiving a full report from the Queens delegation on this organization. The proposal was voted down on the grounds that Davidson would likely receive such a report with or without the grant. The report is desired because the Davidson student body has expressed dissatisfaction with the National Student Association's political stand, whereas the Associated Student Governments is non-political. The possibilities of affiliating with the latter is being considered by the Student Council.

The council also decided that Davidson's delegation to the regional NSA convention at Duke should be chosen by next week in order that the delegates might be instructed as to the stand the school wishes to take when a new constitution is drawn up at this meeting. During the course of the meeting the problem concerning lack of study space was discussed. The possibility of opening the library for a longer period in the evenings was mentioned, along with a suggestion that the lower halves of the literary society halls might be used. It was pointed out, however, that when too many extra places for study were opened, the dorms would become noisier.

Thanks was given to Andy Little for his work on the Student Council reading list. Little said that this list had cost the Council ninety-five dollars. Twelve of the fourteen representatives were present at this meeting.