Che Dauidsanian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Sex Revisited

Sex, like many other things, it seems, is apparently being rediscovered or at least reacknowledged by Davidson College. While a letter elsewhere on this page may raise the suspicion that sex is not new, we have it on the authority of our columnist that the Sexual Revolution is storming into the South. Since then we have been eagerly watching the clouds for the expected rain of sex, but all this campus seems to get is mostly a great deal of the hail... excluding the recent arrivals for Spring Frolics.

Usually being twenty miles from the nearest concentration of sexually eligible females and isolated in a somewhat masochistic environment, it is comforting to learn (once again via our columnist) that sex as expression is part of the identity crisis — we, of course, know from experience that when you express sex you may also have an identity crisis. Passion as a part of the whole man raises similar problems. We would be ready to insist that sex-in-practice must be a part of our real relationships, were it not for an admittedly time-worn anxiety that continues, even in this age of the instant contraceptive: What if she gets pregnant?

Also, it seems that the recent deluge of prose on the ethics of sex has one point in common, whether it views sex as a meaningful expression of the whole person in daily life or whether it views sex as a necessary nuisance subject to Biblical authority: All of it is written from a strictly masculine point of view. This point of view implies that “real sex” is the “masculine sex” — the male sex drive is confused with the overall sex drive — and while sex may be undergoing demythologizing, the cause of this confusion is one myth that hasn’t been touched.

The reality is an obvious one, although both our columnist and his critics seem to have missed it: Sex for the male is the completion of a complicated physiological cycle; for the female, it is only the beginning of an even more complex cycle. From different cycles come different needs and responses.

Editorial columns are not usually run as excerpts of modern sex manuals; yet the point is not the edification of the sexually ignorant. The recent furor over sex illustrates a basic problem at Davidson: we ask the wrong questions for the right reasons. We seem to be arguing over the meaning and practice of sex before we have really discovered what sex is. Our analysis of the problem is faulty because we take for granted the inherent truth of our own presuppositions. Before we dictate the ethics and procedure for sex to our generation, a little bit more mental homework might be in order.

Tougaloo Tugawar

The letter is probably on its way now. But our concern with the Student Council’s decision to enter the Mississippi political arena is not dispatched as easily. Granted, academic matters are involved in the Tougaloo charter dispute. Nevertheless, the matter is essentially politically oriented. The Council is attempting to persuade political figures to act in a specific way on legislation within the Mississippi state legislature. Our point remains: we encourage individuals to take an active interest in politics. On the other hand, we bitterly oppose Council speaking as a group in the realm of politics.

An informed political discussion is healthy. But we question to what extent the Tougaloo charter problem was studied by each member of Student Council. And what were his sources of information? Did he carefully examine both sides? Were his sources of information unbiased? In addition, we question the sincerity of each council member's concern. We wonder how many members were concerned enough to write a personal letter committing no one save himself. This is an individual act, an act that does not carry the name of 1000 students with it, an act that does not carry the weight of 1000 students with it. But is it not a more sincere and, consequently, more meaningful approach?

Each member of the Student Council who had not previously taken individual action had no right approving action which committed a group.

Achievement And Underachievers

We are delighted to learn that there exists a strong possibility that the library’s request for a $44,000 budget increase next year will be approved. Often cited as a shockingly weak aspect of the Davidson educational framework, the library, nevertheless, has been quietly growing and recently added its 100,000th volume. But more is needed. Although they have been growing numerically absolutely, Davidson’s library expenditures have not been increasing any more quickly than at comparable schools. (See chart on page six.) If the $44,000 request is approved — a 47 percent increase in the library budget — the library will have a chance to record phenomenal growth, a chance to step ahead.

A disgusting note. Library director Chalmers Davidson mentioned to our reporter this week that members of the faculty had been requested to furnish lists of books needed in their field not now available in the library. We were not surprised, but nonetheless annoyed, to find that several members of the faculty failed to supply adequate lists — some none at all — despite several requests from the library staff. The cooperation of the members of the faculty — men familiar with the best volumes in their respective fields — is almost mandatory if the library is to seek effectively both the best and the latest books in all areas of knowledge. Each faculty member owes his cooperation both to the College as his employer and to his students as his vocation.

SDS

Associate Editors - Rick von Unwerth, Charlie Ramberg, Jim Downey

Managing Editors - John Todd, Mike Harrington

Copy Editor - Rufus Adair

News Editor - Ron Snow

Feature Editor - Tom Loflin

Sports Editor - Johnny Clark

Photographers - Sam Smith, Tom Thel

Cartoonists - Jack Lingle, Johnny Wright, Rufus Hallmark, John Compton, Irvine Welling, Ned Kelly, Malcolm Lane

Asst. Business Mng. - Advertising Manager - Circulation Manager

Contributors this week: Allen Webb, Bill Norfleet, Bob Strauser, Bob Baker, David Coffey, Jimmy White, John Bailey, Cliff Kirkpatrick, Ed Maxwell, Bob Vance, Marc Copelan, Bob Adams, John Barnhardt, Duncan Newcomer, Bob Holladay, Paul Simpson, Greg Govan, Bill Briggs, Bill Aitken, Wayne Lane, Forrest Roles, Preston St. Clair, Don Tyler, and Buck Lawrimore.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Jackson And Zon Laud Student Council Action

Jackson MLH

Dear Editor,

The editorial of April 17 concerning the Student Council's stand in the Tougaloo College case has provided an opportunity to make more explicit the reasons behind both the Council’s and my own support for that action.

The council is opposed to taking political stands which have no direct bearing on the position which students occupy in their role as students. Such specific items as disarmament, the United States’ stand on the Panama situation, or even the overall integration question are all examples of issues that do not have any direct relation to us in our place as students. However, there are many “political” issues which do have much direct relevance to us in this role. The integration problem as it may specifically apply to Davidson students qua students is a proper area in which the Council should work. So is the situation involved when a state government threatens to revoke the charter of an educational institution strictly on the grounds of personal bias. Such action has direct bearing on the part we play as American college students, and our Student Government has a definite responsibility in this realm of its rightful representation in student affairs.

These stands, then, are primarily concerned with the importance which certain circumstances may have on us all as students, and such actions are only incidentally “political” in the overall sense in which almost every issue might be so considered.

The Student Council’s representation of the Student Body has also been called into question in your editorial. Yet the members of the Council have been properly chosen by the Student Body at large, and the representatives’ very election signifies a degree of the confidence and trust which has been placed in their capability and judgment. The opinions of our Student Body as a whole are seriously considered, and rightly so, whenever the Student Council endeavors to reach any decision, and yet few would even suggest an actual plebiscite on every question to be studied...

Will Jackson

Zon

Dear Editor,

I would like to take issue with your April 17 editorial, “The ‘Representatives’ Act.” The Student Council is criticized for protesting Mississippi's move to revoke the charter of Tougaloo College, Mississippi's only integrated institution. The editorial states, “Although academic matters are involved in the Tougaloo case, nevertheless, the problem remains essentially political, a product of Mississippi's racial struggle.” Yet merely because the Tougaloo case is, in a narrow sense “political,” does this mean that the Council must be silent? Many in Nazi Germany kept silent about the “Jewish problem” since it was a “political” matter. Should we not utilize every available channel, even a specialized body like the Student Council, to help correct an injustice?

Yet even if one does not take this view of the role of the Council (we cannot all be wild-eyed crusaders), cannot its action be justified on the grounds that the Tougaloo case does involve “academic matters”? An accredited, private college, like Davidson, is being threatened with Communist-style liquidation because it deviates from Mississippi’s No-Think, closed society. Where the academic freedom ofHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

One such institution is endangered, can that of another be considered secure? Mississippi, not the Council, seems to be establishing a dangerous “precedent.” This kind of governmental harassment could all too easily snowball. What if North Carolina decided (where “Communism is concerned ‘anything is possible) to extend its gag-law to private institutions such as Davidson, thereby curtailing our academic freedom? Would THE DAVIDSONIAN then caution the Council to keep silent about a “political” matter such as this? I think not. If the gag-law is mainly a product of North Carolina’s racial struggle as Ed Yoder of the Greensboro Daily News stated in his chapel talk of April 13, could not further street demonstrations or the like provoke a broadened gag-law? So maybe Tougaloo’s situation and our own aren't quite so remote after all. Perhaps the political and the academic are not so easily separated. And perchance freedom is, in fact, indivisible. Granted the above, the Student Council had not only the right but the duty to act.

Calvin G. Zon

Hogan

Dear Editor,

Could the Davidson guttersnipes whose obscenities and sub-human noises accompany the films at the Union choose one night a week for their filthy fun, and leave the others to those who wish to enjoy the films? Or perhaps they could find a pleasant sewer in which to congregate and amuse themselves.

Moreland Hogan, Inst. of English

Perry

Dear Editor,

I am fed up to my eye teeth with the comments coming from the youth of today on the subject of sex and premarital relationships, and I feel constrained to reply—to the best of my ability. I write as a parent of four children (one a Davidson “Gentleman”), and though I hope they agree with my ideas, I am parent enough to make no claims. Recent surveys of our stalwart college youth indicate a straying from the “old-fashioned” precepts of morality. They expound the theories of free love and trial marriages, and with typical New England democracy have even demanded equal dormitory time with the opposite sex. In the minds of our youth, the progress of the ‘60s in science and technology demands as earth-shattering changes in morality. These enlightened minds seem determined to change one of the few remaining stable facets of our society. Science has altered our concepts of the creation of the Universe, the make-up of matter, the theories of time and space, but science has not yet, to my knowledge, abrogated the fundamentals of the Bible. I am sure the college student of today would be surprised to find that our “older” generation knew about sex at an early age, and I do not even suggest that we were lily white, but I do decry the shielding of these urges of youth with the mantle of social acceptance.

Robert E. Perry

AN URCHIN’S WAY

‘She Is A Person, Wally- Be Gentle, For Her Dream’

BY DUNCAN D. NEWCOMER

The trouble with Salinger is he has already said it and he has said it best. What? I mean anything about us, like a dance weekend. “Oh. I remember... listen, don’t hate me because I can’t remember some person immediately. Especially, when they look like everyone else, and talk and dress and act like everybody else.” “I don’t mean there’s anything horrible about him or anything like that. It’s just that for four valid years I’ve kept seeing Wally Campbells wherever I go. Dear Wally, it might be that Franny has a point. Perhaps you’ve never been yourself with her and so she doesn’t know how different you really are from all the other Wally Campbells. Perhaps the pleasures of a weekend make you forget she is a person and full of hopes that she will be treated like one. Don’t forget Wally, she has some dreams of her own. She writes in her diary about the kind of husband she wants. She's a little scared too, Wally. I mean she’s up for public viewing and she knows it. You're probably the only one she knows in the whole damned place, Wally. Might be nice to talk with her, huh? I mean you talk with her. “All I know is I’m losing my mind,” Franny said. “I’m just sick of ego, ego, ego. My own and everybody else's.” “You've met him about twenty times... Wally Campbell...”

Of Mandy And Beatles... And Davidson Men

BY ALLAN ARTHURS

What interests the average Davidson student about Britain? The export of buses from Britain to Cuba? Civil rights? The British educational system? Socialized medicine? The British monarchy? Cricket? No. The intelligent young American college student is more interested in talking about Christine Keeler and the Beatles. At the beginning of the year the “British sex and security scandal” provided a variety of questions: Do you know Christine Keeler? Have you been to bed with her? Do you prefer Christine or Mandy? After the first few times the answers started to vary. Sometimes Christine Keeler was one of my best friends, but on other occasions she became too disgusting to talk about. The only way to combat the avalanche of questions was to answer them flippantly—sometimes I was believed. After Christmas the Beatles hit America with even more force than Miss Keeler. At one stage questions were being asked at the rate of twelve a day. Do you know the Beatles? Are you a Beatle? What d’you think about the Beatles? Have you seen the Beatles? Are they a hit in England? Some of the Davidson gentlemen were trying too hard to make conversation, but others seemed genuinely interested in the Beatles. Once again the answers started to vary. If they had not, they would have driven me berserk. With Beatle music blasting across the fraternity court, and the radio stations dominated by it, my working hours were plagued by Beatles. For those who are really interested in my opinion of Christine Keeler, Profumo, Mandy and the Beatles, I will set forth my views for the very last time. Who slept with whom makes interesting reading, but the importance of this particular scandal lies in the questions that it raises about the private lives of public figures. If a man does his job properly does it matter with whom he sleeps? If it does then half the British and American politicians may soon lose their careers. Two other points are worthy of consideration. Was there any security risk involved and did Stephen Ward receive a fair trial? These were the important and interesting questions that Davidson students never raised. The only interest in the Beatles lies in their impact on the adolescents of the world. This psychological phenomenon is worth investigating and discerning. Also the way in which massive publicity can mold the tastes of a nation is frightening, for the Beatles were a big hit even before their records started selling in America. May I, on behalf of the foreign students at Davidson, make a belated plea for a few more intelligent questions about our respective countries?

D. C.

Sophisticates Find Israel In Folk Music

BY BILL FERRIS

Sometimes there comes a moment of awareness that a love pierces our shell of self. We forget our petty criticisms of life and are transformed by a love for something greater than ourselves. Friday evening three hundred Davidson students who heard the Echoes of Israel experienced this feeling. At 8:20 John Spratt greeted the audience enthusiastically. “You don’t know how glad I am to see each and every one of you here tonight.” Students snickered and waited for the first act. In a blur of motion and song the Israeli group began their program of Jewish folk songs mixed with adaptations of American rock-and-roll. After the first act the atmosphere was electric. Shouts rose above the applause following each act. The two Israeli girls created a vacuum of silence in the auditorium with their graceful folk dances. The performance ended with the beautiful harvest tune of Hava Nagila as every student clapped in time. After the final stanza students rose to give the group a three-minute standing ovation. The panting performers bowed and ran off the stage. The show was over, but for many students the evening had just begun. A special “coffee” hour had been announced which would be held “up the road.” Beer and hamburgers were passed to each singer while the accordion player unpacked his instrument. In minutes the room rocked with Jewish and American folk songs. The party broke up at 12:30 and a few students followed the group back to the Guest House for a three-hour bull session. Eitan Lev relaxed in his chair and said “You know, you are one hell of an audience. We've had three standing ovations out of five shows this trip but never anything like tonight. There is so much difference between you students and the audiences we have in New York. There we play for bums. Millionaire bums! They have money. So much money, but nothing upstairs. Understand?” We nodded. “It takes us twenty minutes to break them out of their shells. Every one of them wears a mask and they’re afraid to laugh and show their feelings. But you fellows were different. You were with us all the way.” As the evening wore on Baruk brewed cups of Turkish coffee and our drooping eyes opened wide with each swallow. Twisting the tips of his handlebar mustache, Baruk winced and said “That is what we drink in the kibbutz when we are on guard duty. Nobody goes to sleep when he has Turkish coffee in his belly.” One student asked Eitan about religion in the kibbutzim. “Religion? They don’t have services, but it’s there. You just go among the people there and you feel it. They live it every day.” And we felt this religion among us. We rose to leave the tired group of Israelis and began thanking them for the evening. “It was so wonderful,” one student told Eitan Lev. “Just say shalom,” he replied. “That says all.”