PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1964

(Staff photo by Thel)

THE LAKE CAMPUS: PART ONE
“An escape mechanism for harrowed Davidsonians.”

The movement started at faculty meetings, seeking a separation from the rest of the nation. On Campus

By Sinan (Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and “Barefoot Boy With Cheek.”)

'TIS THE SEASON TO BE JOLLY

If you have been reading this column—and I hope you have; I mean I genuinely hope so; I mean it
does not profit me one penny whether you read this column or not; I mean I am paid every week
by the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes and my emolument is not affected in any way by the number of people
who read or fail to read this column—an act of generosity perfectly characteristic of the makers of Marlboro, you would
say if you knew them as I do; I mean here are tobacconists gray at the temples and full of
honors who approach their art as eagerly, as dewy-eyed as the youngest of practitioners; I mean the purpose of the
Marlboro makers is simply to put the best of all possible filters behind the best of all possible tobaccos and
then go, heads high, into the marketplace with their wares, confident that the inborn sense of right and wrong, of
good and bad, of worthy and unworthy, which is the natural instinct of every American, will result in a modest
return to themselves for their long hours and dedicated labors—not, let me hasten to add, that money is of first
importance to the makers of Marlboro; all these simple men require is plain, wholesome food, plenty of Marlboros, and the
knowledge that they have scattered a bit of sunshine into the lives of smokers everywhere; if, I say, you have
been reading this column, you may remember that last week we started to discuss Christmas gifts.

We agreed, of course, to give cartons of Marlboro to all our friends and also to as many total strangers
as possible. Today let us look into some other welcome gifts. Do you know someone who is interested in American
history? If so, he will surely appreciate a statuette of Millard Fillmore with a clock in the stomach. (Mr. Fillmore,
incidentally, was the only American president with a clock in the stomach. James K. Polk had a stem-winder in his
head, and William Henry Harrison chimed the quarter-hour, but only Mr. Fillmore, of all our chief executives, had a clock
in the stomach. Franklin Pierce had a sweep second hand and Zachary Taylor had seventeen jewels, but, I repeat, Mr.
Fillmore and Mr. Fillmore alone had a clock in the stomach. Some say that Mr. Fillmore was also the first
president with power steering, but most historians assign this distinction to Chester A. Arthur. However, it has been established beyond
doubt that Mr. Fillmore was the first president with a thermostat. Small wonder they called him Old Hickory!)

But I digress. To get back to welcome and unusual Christmas gifts, here’s one that’s sure to please—a gift certificate
from the American Chiropractic Society. Accompanying each certificate is this winsome little poem:

Merry Christmas, Happy New Year, Joyous sacroiliac! May your spine forever shine, Blessings on your aching back. May your lumbar
ne'er grow number, May your backbone ne’er dislodge, May your caudal never dawdle, Joyeux Noël! Heureux massage!

© 1964 Max Shulman

The makers of Marlboro, who take pleasure in bringing you this column throughout the school year, would like to join
with Old Max in extending greetings of the season.

Lake Site Frolics In Fresh Delight

BY JOHN BAILEY

A large number of Davidson students and faculty members have already begun to utilize the College’s new facilities at the
Lake Campus. A 106-acre gift from Duke Power Co., the Lake Norman Campus has become a center of warm-weather recreational
activities and has become an integral part of the college. Planned and developed in less than two years, the lake
facilities already include a wide beach of white sand, a large swimming area with a diving raft, a modern bath
house, a concrete pier leading to slips for motor boats, and a separate area especially for smaller sailboats, dinghies, and
canoes. Nearby is an excellent picnic area with seven charcoal grills, a boat loading ramp, and a large parking area.

The desolation of the area two years ago and the changes it has undergone are incomparable. In addition, refinements of
existing facilities are being rapidly carried out. Lighting standards are being prepared in the College workshop for immediate installation. The
lights will be spread over the grounds with underground secondary wiring and fixtures will be added out on the pier.
An aluminum and redwood railing designed by Grover Meetze, director of the physical plant, is also being constructed for the
pier. Meetze says that there will ultimately be slips for twenty boats around the pier with additional room for lighter
craft. Robert J. Sailstad, director of development, has stated the ultimate goal of the project: “to relate the Lake Campus
to the educational and recreational development of the students.” This is to be done in a manner

TONIGHT
7 p.m. CONCERT CHAMBERS AUDITORIUM —featuring Joe and Eddie, Serendipity Singers, and Fred Smoot.

Wee Hours RAUNCHY “TEA PARTIES” —at 11 different Piedmont sites.

SATURDAY
2 p.m. DAVIDSON RELAYS RICHARDSON STADIUM —Davidson’s championship title is challenged by 15 schools in the first televised track meet
in the College’s history.

7 p.m. CONCERT CHAMBERS AUDITORIUM —featuring Bud and Travis as well as the Four Saints.

Wee Hours RAUNCHY “TEA PARTIES” —at 11 different Piedmont sites.

SUNDAY
All day LAKE —the wonders of nature at a somewhat slackened pace.

VESPERS —and penitence.

MONDAY
FIRST PERIOD —and the blues.

7:30 p.m. 8:20 a.m.

Name Address City Zip Code Box 218

SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscribe to the 1964-65 DAVIDSONIAN I enclose four dollars Bill me later at $4.50 Renewal New Clip out and mail
to — Circulation Manager THE DAVIDSONIAN Davidson, N. C., 28036

NEWS ’64 directory lists summer jobs for students

SUMMER JOBS for STUDENTS 20,000 summer job openings in 50 states. MALE or FEMALE. Unprecedented research for students includes exact
pay rates and job details. Names employers and their addresses for hiring in industry, summer camps, national parks, resorts, etc.,
etc., etc. Hurry!! jobs filled early. Send two dollars. Satisfaction guaranteed. Send to: Summer Jobs Directory—P. O. Box 13593—Phoenix, Arizona.

In Charlotte, Davidsenians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

The cooling propensities of lightest-weight Batiste are now joined to the texture and weave of fine Oxford. The result? A
cotton conservative that will stand up to the warmest days in style. Handsomely, comfortably designed with an authentic button-down collar
and short sleeves. IN WHITE, BLUE, MAIZE & NAVY Bush Wilson, Inc.

for motor boats, and a separate area especially for smaller sailboats, dinghies, and canoes. Nearby is an excellent picnic area
with seven charcoal grills, a boat loading ramp, and a large parking area.

The desolation of the area two years ago and the changes it has undergone are incomparable. In addition, refinements of
existing facilities are being rapidly carried out. Lighting standards are being prepared in the College workshop for immediate installation. The
lights will be spread over the grounds with underground secondary wiring and fixtures will be added out on the pier.
An aluminum and redwood railing designed by Grover Meetze, director of the physical plant, is also being constructed for the
pier. Meetze says that there will ultimately be slips for twenty boats around the pier with additional room for lighter
craft. Robert J. Sailstad, director of development, has stated the ultimate goal of the project: “to relate the Lake Campus
to the educational and recreational development of the students.” This is to be done in a manner‘As economically and completely
as possible." Alumni from nearby areas have also begun to take advantage of the Lake Campus. Bringing in boats and
remaining for a day or weekend, alumni may obtain a guest pass card at the regular Davidson College Campus, and
as such it is subject to all restrictions normally imposed upon students. The Campus opens at 8 a.m. Monday through
Sunday. On Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday it will close at 9 p.m., and Friday, Saturday, and Sunday it closes
at 11 p.m. Students are urged to be out of the area by closing time. Students planning to keep boats
at the dock are requested to register their craft at the Business Office. This will serve as an aid to
the watchman at the lake. However, by this registration, the college does not assume responsibility for the boats.

(Staff photo by Thel)

THE LAKE CAMPUS: PART TWO

“A brief two-part communion with Nature...”

Mysterious Ways Of Wonderland Leave Innocent Young Alice Agape

(Editor’s note: The following article by that quasi-legendary campus character Ervin Duggan first appeared in the Midwinters 1960 issue of
THE DAVIDSONIAN. Incessant requests have led to its republication.)

I. DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE

Alice went down, and down, and down. “How curious!” she thought. “I cannot remember when first I started to go
down like this!” Suddenly it ended. Thump! Thump! Down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and
her fall was over. Alice was not a bit hurt; in a moment she jumped up and looked around. The
White Rabbit had fled. She was standing in a muddy wood, apparently on a high hill. She looked up, but
it was dark overhead; in the distance, she could faintly discern a cluster of domed and columned buildings. “How exciting!”
exclaimed Alice. “I may be in ancient Greece! Or Rome! I wonder... oh!...” Just at that very moment, a great
Pig, clad in billowing tulle skirts and a tiara, scampered up the hill and galloped to a halt before Alice.

“Is this Rome?” cried Alice to the Pig.

“Naw, dearie,” moaned the Pig, “but it's hell on Christians all the same.” The Pig began to ruffle her skirts.
“Darn. Look at that. My tail is a mess.”

“Why are you running away? Is this place perilous?” asked Alice.

The Pig snorted. “Well, it’s like this, honey. They say it’s a safe place for sons, and I say the
hell with it. It’s rough on daughters.”

“Oh!” cried Alice, frightened. “But who are you?”

The Pig adjusted her tiara. “I,” she said with great dignity, “I am the Queen of Queens.” Alice dropped a
deep curtsy, which the Pig acknowledged with a nod.

“Your majesty,” queried Alice, “what has been happening down there?”

“You'll hafta see it to believe it,” said the Queen, lumbering off across the hill. “G'wan down there. But watch
out for the blond guy in the waistcoat; he's pretty raunchy.”

Alice started. The White Rabbit! She began to run down the hill. “How curious!” she thought.

II. THE MAD TEA-PARTY

The columned buildings were deserted. Alice could hear music and voices in the distance, but she knew not where they
were. She stopped before the largest building. Inscribed above the columns were some curious words. “How curious!” exclaimed Alice. Suddenly
she heard a voice: “Hiya, baby. You unattached?”

The White Rabbit, clad in a Madras waistcoat, stood behind her. “Where—where did you come from?” Alice cried.

“Beautiful but naive,” muttered the Rabbit—and then to Alice: “You wanna go to the party with me? My date—damn pig—ran
off somewhere.”

Alice could say nothing. Before she knew what she was about, the Rabbit had taken her arm. They were walking
toward an immense object which looked like a white beetle with shining eyes.

“Corvette,” said the White Rabbit, and Alice nodded, mutely. How frightened she was! They climbed into the thing. The Rabbit
was singing. “Oh, it’s RABBITS—RABBITS—RABBITS, that teach you—” His voice was drowned by a muffled roar, and the curious machine
began to move forward. “How extraordinary!” Alice thought.

Presently they stopped. They had come to a low hall, hung outside with lights. From inside came shouts and the
thumping of great drums. The Rabbit led her inside. The hall was dark and deserted but for a cluster of
Nubians or Ethiopians about the drums.

“Are they Hottentots?” inquired Alice.

“Right,” said the Rabbit, and began to sing again: “... Get ‘em at a peanut stand, yeah, yeah, yeah...” Alice
was silent. Presently they walked to a table upon which rested a tall bottle. Tied around the neck of the
bottle was a paper label with the words “DRINK ME” printed in large letters.

“How curious!” said Alice.

“Aw, g'wan,” said The Rabbit. “Live a little.”

“No, I'll look first,” she said, “and see if it's marked poison or not.”

“Christ,” moaned the Rabbit. “How foggy can a girl get?”

However, this bottle was NOT marked ‘poison’, so Alice ventured to taste it, and finding it very nice, she very
soon finished it off.

“What a curious feeling!” said Alice; “I must be shutting up like a telescope!”

“God forbid,” said the Rabbit, and he took a drink from the bottle. Alice felt very queer indeed. Finally, her
eyes focused again and she looked about the hall. Many people were arriving. She looked at the Rabbit. He was
chuckling now, and there was a curious gleam in his pink eye. “How curious!” she thought.

III. ALICE’S EVIDENCE

The next morning Alice awoke to find herself upon the wooded hill again. She was alone, and she felt terribly
queer. “Oh!” she cried. “I feel as if there's not enough left of me to make ONE respectable person!” She
sat up and looked about curiously. Soon her eyes fell on a little box that was lying nearby. She picked
it up and read upon it the words, “EAT ME”, and beneath, in smaller letters, “A combination of ingredients. Will
not upset your stomach.”

“Well, I'll eat it,” said Alice. “I scarcely care what happens, I feel so queer.” She opened the box, popped
the little pill inside into her mouth. Something curious began to happen. “Curiouser and curiouser!” she cried, “Now I am
opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet!” For suddenly, when she looked she could not see
her feet at all. And still she grew—more and more and more. Alice sat down. “How horrid!” she thought. “Whatever
could have happened?”

In the silence of the wood, no answer came... only the chirping of occasional birds. And then she heard it.
A muffled laugh rose from deep in the brush, and the sound of running feet. That horrid rabbit. Alice began
to cry.

THE CONFORMIST

“At home at Hattie’s and In Weejuns...”
