PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1964

In College’s Curriculum

students. Johnston emphasized several times that he was speaking “as an individual and not for the faculty” in presenting two
ways that he thought Davidson could improve itself in the area of curriculum. Johnston said that he would like to
see the college redefine its divisions of study. Currently, the curriculum is divided into natural science (which includes math), languages,
and social science (which includes every course not included in the first two categories). The dean pointed out that “In
this third area you get a range all the way from Bible to physical education.”

FRONTIS JOHNSTON

Abolish the minors

YMCA Opens Drive For 1964 Gift Fund

Foundation contributes aid to communities and parents for the children’s education and improvement of their standard of living, rather than
to the children directly. Correspondence by the Gift Fund Committee with the North Carolina Council of Churches suggested a second
project. Begun in 1951, this program conducted by the Council is a Ministry to the Migrant Workers. Centered in North
Carolina, it is designed to bring the Gospel to the camps of the migrant workers.

BY BILL AITKEN

The YMCA initiates the 1964 Gift Fund Tuesday in chapel when the purposes of the fund and its suggested projects
for this year will be formally presented to the student body. Jeff Wampler, chairman of the Gift Fund, spoke of
this year's goal as “modest but realistic.” Set at $2300, the goal is somewhat less than the $3300 raised in
1962 and the $2800 sum of 1961. Wampler spoke optimistically of obtaining this sum because of the variety and nature
of the projects.

“Save the Children Foundation” is the first suggested for consideration. International in scope, this project is aimed at providing education
for all children. Operating on a self-help basis much like CARE, the Foundation contributes aid to communities and parents for
the children’s education and improvement of their standard of living, rather than to the children directly.

Nevin's Vocational School trains mentally-retarded persons in manual skills thus enabling them to become self-sufficient. The school is in need
of a complete new workshop and equipment.

BY TOM LOFLIN

Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston surprised the students assembled to hear him speak on “What, If Anything, is
Wrong With the Curriculum at Davidson?” Wednesday night at Open End by taking a liberal viewpoint and suggesting that several
changes indeed could be made in courses to improve the education of the school’s students. Johnston emphasized several times that
he was speaking “as an individual and not for the faculty” in presenting two ways that he thought Davidson could
improve itself in the area of curriculum. Johnston said that he would like to see the college redefine its divisions
of study. Currently, the curriculum is divided into natural science (which includes math), languages, and social science (which includes every
course not included in the first two categories). The dean pointed out that “In this third area you get a
range all the way from Bible to physical education.”

Johnston held, “This is an unnatural division. Most liberal arts colleges have their divisions include natural science, social science, and
the humanities. Here, you don't have to take any social science (such courses as sociology, political science, etc.). Therefore, I
feel we should rearrange our divisions so we could require studies in areas of social science. I believe that most
of the problems of your generation have to do with questions raised in the studies of the social sciences.”

Johnston next took the side of many students in the desire for more chances for independent study here. “I feel
we ought to do a great deal more than we now do in the field of independent study. I think
that every student ought to do some sort of independent study in his major field.” The dean said that he
felt every student, not just those with high grades, could gain some benefit from independent work guided by the faculty.

Johnston said that the nearest thing Davidson now has to independent study is its Honors Program. This program is generally
limited to students of history or English. Johnston believes that so little emphasis is put on the Honors Program now
for two reasons:

Bill Rule Receives Letter: Africa A Still-Dark Land

(Editor's note: Below is a portion of a letter received by Bill Rule, a Davidson junior, from his missionary mother
after an uprising in the Congo last month. Rule has provided an introduction for publication in THE DAVIDSONIAN.)

Converging from thousands of scattered toy villages, upon the crowded streets of new cities, Africans are encountering social changes which
elude simple generalization. For the first time they encounter POSSIBILITIES, but lacking these themselves, they must demand. Can it be
surprising that when these people see their own importance anew through the eyes of strangers, yet do not know how
to obtain what others have, they turn in frustration and confusion to violence for the goods and dignity they had
expected independence to bring? Plagued with power struggles, economic instability and hostile diversity of language and tribes, the government is,
to our concern, threatened when the mysteries of international politics and promises step into this vacuum of needs. Our journalistic
analyses deal so often with the spectacle of mass violence that we miss the intensely personal aspects behind every headline.
Below, you may read, in the narrative of a misled revolt, something of the individuals involved—the young and the old,
the rash and the conservative, the violent and the peaceful. If you can learn something of the deep concern as
well as the deep hate from this letter, it is perhaps worth the loss of objective accuracy.

Lubondai, Jan. 28

Dearest Billy,

We are supposed to leave for a day of medical work at Mboi in less than an hour so this
will be short, but I know you are all anxious for the news of the tragic happenings in the Kwilu
district which takes in part of the CIM (Congo Inland Mission) right next to us. We have two of the
couples here on the station who probably fared worse at the hands of these secret, highly organized bands of Communist
followers of Gizenga. These folks, the Birchies and the Grabers, were completely burned out. They were ready for bed a
week ago last night (Jan. 21) when they heard a commotion outside. Mrs. Graber dressed quickly but he never had
time to get into his clothes. They went outside and were quickly surrounded by these fanatics who were constantly threatening
their lives and then they had to watch as the young men entered their house and poured gasoline everywhere, setting
the house (full of all their things just arrived for five years) on fire. The metal roof melted and all
was gone in a short while. They asked the comrades why they did not take things but the reply was,
“We do not want your things, we are fighting for our LAND" and so saying, they picked up a handful
of dirt as if the land did not belong to them in this country. We do not, and cannot own
a square foot of land; it is all leased or loaned. But, as I say—they are fanatics. The folks had
no plane (it, too, would have been destroyed if they had had one) and their two new cars were burned
before their eyes so they were really stranded and at the mercy of these people—some 200 in all. Their Congolese
medical Christian aides begged the leader for mercy and for the lives of the missionaries, so they were spared and
allowed to stay in the dispensary which was not destroyed. The medical work and personnel is not being hurt, it
seems.

They could not get word out of their plight, for the radios were, of course, destroyed as well, but the
Missionary Aviation Fellowship flew over on Thursday (two days later) for they knew communications were broken. The Grabers had messages
written in bandages on the ground, but rescue was not forthcoming until noon the next day. They are all O.K.
but of course it has been a shattering experience and terribly shaken their confidence in the Congolese. The central government
did nothing at the time so we hope and pray they are doing something NOW. All the little and big
Congolese government people in the area had to run for their lives for the Communist groups were really gunning for
the government more than anything else. The Catholics got much worse treatment and some of their stories are really terrible.
One Protestant lady was killed by an arrow (these bands carry only bows and arrows and knives, and dress only
in short uniform pants) and another badly wounded. We probably do not know as many of the details as you
do over there for we have only radio Brazzaville to listen to and reception is not always good. We want
you to be reassured that we are all right—life goes on just as usual here on the APCM (American Presbyterian
Congo Mission) area.

“Participation in the program has been extra for faculty members. They have done the work without additional compensation by the
college while carrying regular loads. The other reason is that a great many departments don't feel that the program is
the way to get at what they want to do.”

In summary, Johnston said that he would criticize the present curriculum at Davidson from two standpoints. “On the one hand,
it lacks breadth in social sciences and on the other it lacks depth in the major.” Johnston also said during
the question period following the presentation of his ideas, “I think that minor requirements ought to be abolished. What I
am proposing now is that this be done and that the extra hours be used to expand the major to
thirty hours or that more hours be used for electives.” Johnston stressed that by “proposing” the idea of eliminating the
minor requirements he only meant “I am talking it up and trying to get other people's opinions. I do not
know yet whetheror not it will come up for a vote before the faculty.” Johnston also launched into surprising criticisms
of such things as Vespers and the lack

BY RUFUS ADAIR

“The Visit” by Friedrich Duerenmatt, winner of the New York Drama Critics’ Award for the Best Foreign Play of the
1958 Broadway season, will be the second major drama production by the newly established Department of Drama and Speech. Production
dates are Feb. 20-22 at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. Duerenmatt, a Swiss who writes in German, describes the play as
a comedy which ends tragically. The plot concerns the return of a wealthy woman to the town from which she
was driven as a young girl. She offers a gift of a billion marks to the impoverished town in return
for the life of the villager who caused her expulsion. What follows is what Brooks Atkinson in his review of
“The Visit” in the New York Times called “the kind of ruthless bitterness that characterizes a good deal of contemporary
European drama,” i.e., it is an indictment of a democratic society in which values have become more and more materialistic.

The 35-member cast is under the direction of Professor Rupert Barber, head of the Drama and Speech Department. Assisting him
with the sets and the music are Preston Faggart of the Art Department and Dr. Grier Williams of the Music
Department. Heading the cast will be Mrs. David Hampton as Claire Zachanassian and Professor James Gross as Shill. D.C.'s own
Richard C. Burts as Heilsberger heads the list of other faculty and community members, which include the Rev. Will Terry
as the Burgomaster; Richard Trudell, the Policeman; Miss Nancy Copeland as Frau Shill; and Mrs. Ian French, Miss Shannon Cumming,
and Mrs. Douglas Houchens as townswomen. Miss Kristy Scott and C. Shaw Smith Jr. play Shill’s teen-age children. Students in
the cast are John Hall as Teacher Muller; David Blue, Pastor; Tim Croft, Nussler; Mike Frye, Bobby; Jim Fuller, Hofbauer;
Neal Bushoven, Wechsler; Joe Baird, Vogel; Romir Chatterjee, Ashoke; Jim Binkley, Station Master; Spencer Caldwell, Mike; Howard Bryan, Max; Alan
Cooper, Lobby; and Monty Wilkinson as Kobby. Tickets will go on sale Monday, Feb. 17, at 9 a.m. in the
Cunningham Fine Arts Center.

Representative To Plug Student Exchange Plan

Students seeking an inexpensive way to travel abroad this summer will have an opportunity to speak with Lars T. Carlson,
representing The Experiment in International Living, Monday from 2 - 5:30 p.m. in the private dining room of the Union.
The Experiment in International Living is a non-profit organization which offers two-way student exchanges between the United States and other
nations of the world. Many nations of the world, including the Soviet Union, are participating in this program. Students stay
in private homes for the first month and tour the nation during the second month of their stay abroad. Students
who are qualified are eligible to receive scholarships which will pay the majority of their expenses. Any professor or language
student who has an adequate knowledge of a foreign language is eligible to participate in the program as a group
leader or language instructor for high school seniors. Group leaders and language instructors will be given free travel and money
for expenses while they are abroad. All students interested in traveling abroad this summer may contact Carlson when he is
on campus Monday afternoon.

Capt. Partridge To Discuss Army Civil Works Abroad

Opening the semester’s programs for the International Relations Club will be Capt. Charles C. Partridge’s presentation on the topic, “Army
Civil Works Projects Abroad: Just Another Bureaucratic Overlap?” The discussion by Partridge, a member of the Davidson ROTC Department, will
be held next Wednesday in the private dining room of the College Union at 7:15 p.m. The program will consist
of a film and discussion with refreshments.

Dean Johnston spoke with a liberal tongue about several changes for the better at Davidson. He is a man with
the power and respect of the faculty; his leadership to put through his ideas will determine his sincerity about them.
According to Grier Stephenson, president of IRC, the next series of programs will be student discussions of issues between four
students, two on one side and two taking the opposing view. The first of these discussions will be held on
March 4 on the topic “World Communism Today: How Great the Danger?” The next topic, on March 18, will be
“Disarmament: Alternative to the Balance of Terror?” Other topics will cover “Castro’s Cuba: Challenge to the Americas?”, “Foreign Aid: How
Long? How Much? For What?”, and “Ideological Warfare: Who's Winning?”

Debaters Will Appear On Regional TV Series

The Davidson debating team will appear on regional television in a series of programs during the next four weeks against
teams from Wake Forest, Duke, and UNC. The first program will be Sunday night, Feb. 16, with Skip Jones and
Conrad Shumadine assuming the affirmative against the debaters of Wake Forest on the query: “Will Atlantic Unity Survive?” The program
can be seen locally over WBTV at 6:30. These debaters are all part of a large overall program sponsored by
UNC on the topic “Great Decisions.” The program also includes the teams of Wake Forest, UNC, and Duke. A series
of eight topics will be covered. On Feb. 28 over WBTV Davidson’s Bill Rule and Tom Poston will debate the
question: “Can Stability Be Achieved in the Middle East?” against UNC. March 15 will pit Jones and Shumadine versus Duke
in a debate of the problem: “Can Indonesia Be Counted Among the Free Democracies?” The last of the television dates
over WBTV will be broadcast March 22. This debate pits two Davidson freshmen, Stan Cameron and Joe Rice, against the
UNC team.

THE UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH SEWANEE, TENNESSEE ANNOUNCES A 1964 SUMMER SESSION FOR MEN AND WOMEN Eight weeks; June 22—August
15 Liberal arts curriculum Forest environment Sewanee Summer Music Center For the Summer School Bulletin address the Director of the
Summer School

College Increases Electrical Voltage

The college is connecting its electrical system to a higher voltage. This campus changeover, only one part of a transition
that will affect the entire town of Davidson, has required ditches to be dug near Chambers Building and the library
for the installation of the necessary cables and wires. Grover Meetze, director of the physical plant and a member of
the Davidson Town Council, explained that Duke Power Co. has offered this higher voltage for more efficient use of existing
lines and for more power. The economic advantages of the improved system justify the conversion expense, he said. While making
these changes, the college has also upgraded its whole electrical system. Conduits have been installed for possible voltage increases in
the future. A new sub-station will soon allow the college to operate even when power fails for the rest of
the town. Trees along the edge of the campus have been trimmed to accommodate new lines; some trees have been
removed. Elsewhere in the town new poles, lines, and transformers have been installed. The new system is scheduled to go
into operation on March 29 after an outlay by the college of approximately $9,000.

YMCA Will Direct Special Vespers

Vespers this week will be conducted by the YMCA as part of the World Day of Prayer. Ronnie Reese will
give a short sermon and other participants will be Lanier Burns, Hank Ackerman, Joe Howell, the Johnson C. Smith Choir,
and the Davidson College Male Chorus. According to YMCA President Howell, the program will be short and geared to the
student. It will be an attempt to break away from traditional prayers and make the service meaningful to those who
hear it.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brown, E. E.
Labban
Swicord
Burts
Lilly
Tilley
Currie
Lloyd
Tucker
Daggy
Martin, J. G.
Welsh
Driesell
Patterson, W. B.
White, L.
Gable
Polley
Williams
Griffin
Richey
Young
Kelton
Scott

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

The Hub Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.
