FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

FROM THE BACK OF THE BUS

An Appeal For Apathy: “Tie That Unites College”

By CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

The hallmark of the student is his apathy. By the consensus of the frustrated crusaders who would have us change our ways, our favorite expression is “I don't give a damn.” We can’t be bothered by controversies, whether they center on consumption of alcohol or constraints on professors. Apathy is the cardinal sin in our Christian community of learning. Commitment is the prime virtue. So we have been told since we first arrived on campus.

The evaluation is faulty. In truth, it is the altar of apathy at which we should worship, and spurn the crusaders. That apathy is virtuous is not difficult to prove. First, it is a tradition. This fact alone should assure us that apathy is good. For those who will not accept this self-evident truth, another convincing argument for the virtue of apathy is easy to find. Apathy is the mortar that binds the blocks of our community together. It supplies both the lubrication and inertia to keep the wheels turning. Without apathy to cement into inactivity the conflicting interests—students, faculty, Trustees—of our community, it might soon fly apart at the seams. Apathy is not limited to students. The present situation, made safe by apathy, is the best of all possible worlds. The Trustees can tell the world that “Davidson College is opposed as a matter of principle to the use of alcoholic beverages by students.” To Hell with their principle. We are well aware that we can keep and consume alcoholic beverages almost at will. Except for those unfortunate student body officers who are honor-bound to enforce the drinking rule, student enforcement is a joke. The dorm cocktail parties continue and the only ones hurt are the occasional students who are caught by an honor-bound enforcer unable to turn away quickly enough. Obviously, the present system is best. They have their principle. We drink.

Davidson College is a Christian college. It must be. Look at all the students going to church every Sunday. Let the Trustees rejoice. Don’t let them look into the church, where students are sleeping, reading, writing letters, and agreeing with each other that this sermon is even worse than last week’s.

Of course, Davidson is a Christian college. It requires professors to affirm their Christian commitment by taking an oath. The college is a teaching arm of the church, the Trustees say with pride. Some hotheads may claim that the Trustees have at least partially succeeded in fulfilling their proud boast. But their argument is weak, being based on the probable effect of avowedly non-Christian professors who have never come here. The hotheads are wrong. We study for four years under men who are pledged to “teach so as to give expression to the Christian faith...” We emerge with a well-developed distaste for organized religion, some of us atheists who came only in doubt, others not caring to hear more about the “ultimate” religious questions. That the oath is good should not be doubted. It keeps the Trustees complacent. It has fostered a situation in which many of us manage to elude religion’s grasp.

Blessed Is Our Yawning Apathy.

THE DAVIDSONIAN GOES TO AN OPERA

“THE WINTER OF OUR DISCONTENT...”

Winter is absent from the Davidson campus only in season, it seems.

FRATERNITY CONTROVERSY GETS HOTTER

SACKETT DEFENDS PROGRAM

Great Issues To Impart

By FRED SACKETT
New Political Horizons Chairman, Great Issues Committee

With the election over, perhaps this is a good time to look back and see what happened, and what may be expected from the final part. I must mention also that the series was not one of “high level dialogue,” perhaps because the campaign itself was not conducted as a “great debate of two rival philosophies.” True, much of this could be gained simply by reading the magazines or newspapers. But the actual listening to and questioning speakers, watching them in action, seeing whether...

Martin Opens Attack On Greek Defenses

Dear Editor:

It’s a bad situation. We admit it. Now come on boys, let’s get together and see if we can't make the best of the bad situation. Every argument presented so far by the fraternity majority can be summed up in that statement. There's a hint of compassion there. In the back of their minds, they feel a little guilty for the “plight” of the poor Independent. This is the bad situation as they see it, pure and simple. The 15 percent, the 20 percent, the 27 percent, the 40 percent, or whatever it might be a couple of years from now is just not getting in on the fun. What's more, they might have a few little permanent injuries done to their personalities through the stigma the fraternities might have placed on them through their rejection. Permanent injuries are bad things and so is an empty social life, and it surely would be nice if we could do something to help them out. It’s sort of like the race problem, though. First, these rejectees have to show a little initiative of their own before we do anything for them (The implication here is that they might form some sort of rejectee clubs or quasi-fraternities or semi-Greek houses or something). Failing this, then probably the government, i.e. the administration, will have to step in and take the responsibility for the welfare of these poor people who don't measure up.

SCHRADER LETTER BLASTED

How parochial, how unrealistic, how conservative can you get? I think the letter of J. P. Schrader last week comes close to answering this question. I can only hope that his immature sentiments are not shared by the rest of this year's pledge class, and I am confident they couldn't be by any Davidson upperclassman. Schrader has mastered the art of making sophomoric analogies one year early. He should be congratulated for his precocity. If Schrader is an Independent, he should also be congratulated for the philosophical way he has taken the whole thing. If he is not, then at least he provides some consolation for persona non grata everywhere. It is quite obvious to me, as it should be to everyone, that there can be no solution to the problem of the “forgotten minority” as long as any semblance of the present system remains. Probably presently the well-nigh heretical sophomore rush itself would actually help very little. Any club based on mutual rejections is completely unsatisfactory, and rejection would continue to haunt us even after sophomore rush. I will now try to ignore the loud ho-hums of Schrader and his cohorts and discuss the question with those who have demonstrated greater concern.

LACK OF ASSOCIATION

Bob Young must feel somewhat disconcerted by now at having his point so thoroughly misunderstood by everyone, including those who offered fairly reasonable ideas last week such as Art Ross, Rick von Unwerth, and even Charlie Dibble. Mr. Young's speech was not based on compassion for the minority. All of us realize the futility of raising an issue on that basis, especially in the South. His concern is for the good of the college, 100 percent of it. It’s just that the majority of boys here are so thoroughly wrapped up in what they think is...a good thing that they see nothing but a threat to their present favored, protected position. The status quo is always so warm and snug, especially when the accent is on the “status” in one’s own case. The gist of Bob Young's speech in chapel was that the fraternity system as it presently exists is not consistent with the goals of Davidson College as a school of liberal arts. No amount of IFC required Reynolds Lectures, minimum grades, study periods, or spot boxes will make up for what is taken from the education process by the fraternities. What I am talking about is freedom of association, or our lack of it. I’m talking about the artificial barriers, the unfair labels in one case, stigmas in another, which are created through these superficial groups which somehow have come to demand almost the same respect as God, mother, and country.

LIMITED FRIENDSHIP

Do we really have more friends because of the fraternity system? I think not. How many potential friendships did you see eliminated your freshman year when you made that great, second-semester pilgrimage to the fraternity houses? And what is the basis of your friendship now, whether your buddy pays his dues, whether you are able to get your rough edges rounded off, rough edges like not being able to talk cool or failure to develop a sufficiently blasé attitude toward enough things? I admit that there is often more to the fraternal bond than this but I contend also that those who say that they have a wide variety of guys at their house are fooling themselves. Should this really happen there would be a number of people wondering what went wrong. And what really would happen as soon as the “national” found out? Do you ever have the opportunity to establish a dialogue over really worthwhile subjects with someone outside your fraternity who has something to contribute or is it always cut off prematurely because the other potential participant never eats with you or never dates with you and your group frowns on his group anyway? Do you ever feel that you would sometimes like to hear some ideas of people a little bit different from yours, but don't quite get the chance? Wouldn't education be best served through some sort of system where common intellectual interests come first and common superficialities come second?

“PROVINCIAL ENOUGH”

As it is, Davidson is a rare breed among liberal arts colleges. Something must be wrong when a person leaves with more prejudices than he brings in. Did you ever realize before how many different kinds of people you disliked, and within your own race at that? Coming here, one freshman might be prejudiced against the Kappa Sig type guy while another might know already he doesn't like the SAE type individual and another is positively scornful of the Sig Ep breed. Here at this little school of one thousand it is not too much to ask that we be allowed enough freedom of association to discover that people are people and not types. Goodness knows we're provincial enough as it is. Do we have to make it worse by insulating ourselves even against one another? Is it really as bad as all that? In support of my assertion I will say that more than one fraternity man has admitted to me that his first responsibility in the present debate is to his fraternity. The unanimous argument of fraternity men so far in the issue bravely raised by Bob Young has borne this out.

CONCESSION

One would think that with the hundreds of different types of social systems in the colleges of the country and with the admitted ills of our present setup, there would be just one fraternity man willing to concede that our system might just be all wrong. Can you imagine what sort of citizens we must be training when we have people whose scope is not large enough to include one thousand boys (or a mere 270)? Where has freshman class spirit been lately? Won't their first allegiance when they get out be to the West Side Country Club, or the AMA, or the NAM, or the NEA, or to their state, or to their region, or to their own race at the very broadest? When the opportunity arises won't they once again offer foolish substitutes when they see their own privileged position being threatened? What concrete proposals do I have? Someone in a burst of munificence has suggested that the campus drinking restrictions be repealed for Independents only. More seriously, I propose that Bob Young read his speech to the student body once again, and I ask that this time they listen carefully. Maybe then we can discuss the issues as they really are.

Gary Martin
Davidson College

... and the dialogue continues. You see, the issues or slipped around them showed, I hope, what the 1964 election really was like. So, if we are disappointed because of dialogue, maybe it is because we have discovered that “politics” wasn't quite on the level we thought, or really what we had imagined it to be. The first two parts of the series were: (1) a preparation of the students on issues; and (2) listening to and meeting actual political figures representing both parties. Triffin Patterson and Col. Miller were the speakers for the first part, and dealt with economics and foreign policy. These were basic issues around which the campaign centered, and aspects of these two can be found in many of the other stands taken by the parties. These three talks gave the student good material with which to question other speakers of the series. Senator Randolph, Rep. Jonas, Henry Hall Wilson, Charles Mitchell, Harry Golden, and Randolph Babcock made up the second part, and each gave a talk on party views, as tempered by their own. All represented an amazingly consistent reflection of their party’s proposal, and gave aspects of the issues and campaign that might not otherwise have been brought out at Davidson. Jonas, Randolph, Wilson, and Golden all touched upon some economic aspects, especially government spending and specific programs. Mitchell and Babcock gave the reasons for a conservative candidate's election, and had aspects of economics and foreign policy in their talks. The expectations of the liberal and conservative movements were brought out by Babcock and Golden. These two talks will be made clearer during the third part of the series by Dr. Link's analysis of historical implications of the election on the conservative and liberal movements in America's history, especially viewed as trends. Looking back, we see these, and hope they helped in not only watching the development of the campaign, but in viewing the results as shown by the vote, and what expectations we may have for the next four years. The third part of Great Issues will be the resume, and will consist of three speakers. The first, on Jan. 11, will be Dr. Arthur S. Link, a noted historian from Princeton. His book on modern American history is a text for that course at Davidson. Later in the year we hope to have James McGregory Burns, and a new commentator. Mr. Burns is the former member of the White House Staff who is writing the Kennedy Library biography of John F. Kennedy. These men will analyze the results of the election, and give insight into how it was fought and won, what the issues really were that carried it for Johnson, what the futures of the parties look like, and what historical trends and implications this election shows in the development of past American history. In general, the third part will give us exactly what was “Great Issues — Election ‘64.”

Irreducible Complexity: The Davidson Paradoxes
By MICHEL DURAND
Richardson Scholar from France, 1964-65

The United States, or at least Davidson, is a curious paradox of irreducible complexes and of qualities which on the contrary show a pleasant open-mindedness. Start speaking of politics or economics to an American student: the conversation becomes more and more interesting... until the moment when you make the stupid and forgivable mistake of uttering the word “Socialism” or, what is worse still, “Communism.” Silence prevails, for these words are a curtain of iron about which everything has been definitely said, and against which even the most intelligent student balks. An American student can go without drinking, or eating, (or studying) for a long time: he will not complain. But if he cannot go to the barber’s when his hair is longer than four inches, the “obsession” begins. Fortunately, this obsession of being “long-haired” will soon end if he has the happiness of being enrolled in ROTC.

On the other hand, the qualities of open-mindedness are numerous in the Davidson student. A very nice one is his taste for humor. To like humor involves acceptance of laughing at oneself as well as at others; and if the English already knew how to smile at everybody, the Americans know how to laugh at everything.

Between these two opposed poles stand the “rules” of the college, which govern or wish to govern the student's life. It is difficult after only two months to say whether they are the translation of a latent hypocrisy or a backwardness of several centuries. It is strictly forbidden to bring one drop of spirits on the campus. Not long ago, two students were dismissed for having left a bottle of liquor in their car. And yet it is known that the students go to drink, a few hundreds of yards from the campus. To have a reasonable drink on the campus is certainly worse than getting drunk up the road! The system of the Honor Court is praiseworthy and praised. And yet it is known that its members fortunately learn how and when to close their eyes! The fraternities faithfully obey the tradition of saying grace before the meals. And yet it is known that in this case grace has become for the most part but a few conventional and unmeaningful words muttered as fast as possible by a courageous volunteer! The presence at a service on Sundays in a church of Davidson is compulsory. And yet it is known that not much time is devoted to prayers in the last yawning or laughing pews of the chapel! It is also known that a strip-tease show not far from the campus has found a faithful cult of students, and that the reading of Playboy is often the ritual which follows the service.

And yet it is known that Davidson College is lively, pleasant, and for more than pleasant. Of course, it is not Socialism, or the hair, or the Honor Court, or grace, or religious services, which can be implicated, but the way they are considered sincerely or officially on the campus. And after all, it has been much easier for me to draw up a picture of the negative elements than of the positive ones, certainly it is because the latter are too numerous to be listed in a picture!