VOL. LH Ch DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

“L'ALOUETTE” First French Week Brings Drama, Embassy Official

A touring French company will present “L’Alouette” and a high-level French embassy official will speak on campus Friday night, March 6, to highlight activities for Davidson's first French Week.

CAUCHON Henri Poirier

Randolph-Macon To Host Symposium

“Individual Ideals and Social Reality” will be the theme of “Focus 1964,” Randolph-Macon's second annual symposium on the American nation to be staged March 6-8 at R-M Woman's College. The opening address will deal with the individual's place in society. A panel will discuss the relation of public morals to legislation. The second panel, composed of scientists, will discuss science and ethics. Four panels will deal with the role of a writer in society, business ethics, twentieth-century religion, and news censorship. Any students interested in attending the symposium or in gaining more information on it should check with John Burks.

$100 For Tuition Due On March 15

M. W. McGill, the college bursar, has reminded students that the $100 deposit on tuition for the 1964-1965 fall semester is due on or before March 15, 1964. Every student except seniors will receive an invoice from McGill before the end of this month. Each one of the three rising classes pays different rates for tuition. The rising senior class pays $700 per year, the rising juniors pay $800 per year, and rising sophomores pay $900 per year.

The drama, “L‘Alouette,” is the story of Joan of Arc, by one of France's leading playwrights, Jean Anouilh. For this production by Le Treteau de Paris, Anouilh even hand-picked the cast, many of whom are famous actors in the French theatre. The troupe, partially subsidized by the French government as part of a cultural exchange, has been playing on American college campuses for several years. With each tour, its popularity and schedule have expanded. Already this year the group has performed in many cities from Miami to San Francisco. Anouilh has chosen Luce Vincent to play the leading role of Joan. Pierre Le Rumeur has the supporting part of the Inquisitor. Both actors are among the leading representatives of modern French drama. According to the French Department at Davidson, a large audience should receive the production here. Groups from several high schools and colleges in the area have already made reservations. All second- and third-year French students here are reading the play. Tickets from $1.50 up are still available at the College Union.

Jacques Poujol, adjoint to the French Embassy in Washington, Dr. Stitt To Speak At Baccalaureate.

Dr. David L. Stitt, president of Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary in Austin, Texas, is to be the featured speaker for Davidson College’s 1964 Baccalaureate service May 31. Stitt attended Texas Christian University and received his BA from Austin College. He received his LLD from that institution and has a BD from Austin Seminary and his DD from Westminster College. Stitt has served on the General Assembly of the United Presbyterian Church, the World Council of Churches, and as moderator of the Synods of Missouri and Texas. He has been president of Austin Seminary since 1945. Stitt has six children; the eldest, David, is a senior at Davidson where he is editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Stitt will deliver the Baccalaureate address at 11 a.m. The Commencement exercises follow in the afternoon. No speaker is to be invited for the Commencement itself.

will speak several times on campus Tuesday. He will speak in chapel Tuesday morning on the subject of French culture and will later deliver a lecture in French in the dome room of Chambers at 8 p.m., following the French film, La Marche Francaise. Poujol was formerly a professor in France and a visiting professor at the University of Southern California before assuming his position in Washington. Also as a part of the special week, exhibits on loan from the French embassy will be displayed in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center and in the lobby of Chambers Building.

Roberts

Roberts is in the insurance business in Charlotte, where he has resided since 1931. He is an ordained minister in the Evangelical United Brethren Church, which is the thirteenth largest denomination in America. He was graduated from Indiana Central College, which he describes as a church-related school about the size of Davidson, affiliated with the Evangelical Church. Roberts has never had a regular congregation to which to speak, but he has done some substitute and guest preaching. He served as an officer for the YMCA’s in both Charlotte and Indianapolis for a total of 11 years. Roberts has a son who attended The Citadel and a daughter who went to Winthrop. Asked if he would be in favor of sending his grandchildren to Davidson, he said, “Davidson College is no worse off than a lot of schools that are having the same trouble as you. About the only thing people can do if they send their kids to school is to teach them the Bible before they leave home.”

Mankind today, including many leaders of the visible professing church of Jesus Christ, is in rebellion against God. Such people refuse to accept the fact that this Age of Grace in which we live is a fulfillment of past Hall Counselors Named For Next Year's Freshmen:

BY BOB HOLLADAY

Twelve upperclassmen will continue as freshman hall counselors next year. Supervisor of Dorms Mrs. J. B. Moore announced this week. Ten other students will also serve as counselors. Continuing for their second year will be Ken Essex, Harold Kernodle, Paul Reichardt, Will Jackson, Steve Davidson, Hugh Allen, Dick Bates, Arthur Ross, Vernon Anderson, John Barrow, Rick Brand, and Mac Mays. Volunteering as hall counselors for the class of '68 are Andy Little, Dick Short, Bruce Swain, Jim Stokes, Dave Hardeman, Thom Blair, Britt Snider, Paul Ambrose, Bill Council, and Neill McBryde.

not finally chosen would do the Dean of Students Richard C. job equally well.” Burts works with Mrs. Moore in selecting each year's group of counselors. “We have this in mind a good part of the year, in observing students before trying to make decisions," Mrs. Moore said. “Some students may mention that they would like to be considered, whereas others are settled upon by Dean Burts and myself as being particularly qualified for the job.” The 10 new counselors were selected from a group of 45 prospects. “It was particularly difficult because all of them had most of the desired qualifications—some of those who were The ultimate criterion in the closed book. While the selection process must be the

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, (staff photo by McCutchen)

THE TOSSUP

Follow the bouncing ball...

Draws Bead On Atheist’s Talk Here

(Editor's Note: The appearance of atheist Michael Scriven on campus Feb. 4 evoked a wave of fury from the fundamentalists in this area of the Bible Belt. THE DAVIDSONIAN has solicited the following from Alfred L. Roberts, who has written several letters to Charlotte newspapers in protest of Dr. Scriven’s appearance. Two of Roberts’ letters were reprinted in this paper on Feb. 7.

ages and not a destroyer of past ages.

BUT GRACE IS A FULFILLMENT OF JUSTICE AND NOT A DESTROYER OF JUSTICE.

are a part of the professing church of Jesus Christ, which, in its visible form, is today running away from its own conscience, its own weaknesses, and

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

1964

BY BUCK LAWRIMORE

On that day the cold was not, nor the damp ground; books therein; commerce was not, nor traffic; the cars therein. And nothing was that was not b. Davidson was basketball. For on Thursday, Feb. 27, the entire population of the town of Davidson, all 2,800 of them, were busy backing their own Home... Team and this time they were backing champions. The Wildcats utterly defeated the Citadel 91-62 that afternoon to begin their determined climb for the Southern Conference Basketball Tournament Championship, and thence to NCAA finals. (See details of game, related stories, on page 4.) Visible signs of support began falling in place about town, increasing as the tension mounted: “GO WILD. 'CATS,” “RALLY THE ‘CATS,” “ALL THE WAY ‘WILDCATS,” and many more. As a culmination of the sign-erecting, a huge cloth masterpiece was stretched across the intersection of Main and Concord at 1:00 Thursday morning by merchants and cheerleaders: “GO DAVIDSON COLLEGE WILDCATS . . . SOUTHERN CONFERENCE BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT FEB. 27-29.” At 1:30 p.m. Thursday some 300 students, townspeople, and faculty members shivered and shouted in the damp cold for victory, as Coach Lefty Driesell and the Wildcat Team drove through their midst at the foot of Concord Road. Fred Hetzel was prophetically riding shotgun in the lead car, and the tension on his face broke into a rare grin as the crowd called to him and whacked his shoulder through the car's open window. No band music or speeches were necessary. Rapidly the crowd dispersed to run for automobiles and radios, and nothing mattered but 4 o'clock. Hundreds of students and other fans went in person to see theHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Game, but many others sat impatiently around radio sets tensely awaiting The Hour. Alarmingly like another Coliseum centuries ago, the arena trembled as thousands of voices cried for blood. Recalling the near defeat at the hands of their opponents only days ago, they thundered ever louder. Victory was their cry and victory was their prize. They knew it would be this way at the Coffee Cup, where a Davidson basketball and a photo of Coach Driesell were ready for hanging on the wall. They knew it would be this way at White Drugs, as a pleasant elderly lady smiled and methodically stuck another gold star on her schedule. They knew it would be this way at Hood Norton's, as the barbers fingered the news clippings and wondered where they would add all the new ones and longed to see "NCAA" on one of them. They knew it would be this way at Marietta’s, where Mary Copeland looked out fondly at the street banner whose creation she had instigated. They knew it would be this way at Mary's, where a number of the players’ names lie beside Council Schedules Dates Of Student Body Elections.

Faced with unexpected the supreme being: and thus, like Student Council announced animals if animals could talk, the tentative dates, beginning they speak only of their own ex- in mid-March, for nom- perience and most of which understanding. inations and elections for understanding comes from Satan and his evil officers in student body or- spirits. On the other hand, many lay- ganizations. men members and ministerial members of professing Christian Churches, not willing to admit their guilt before the laws of God, have tried to deceive themselves into a belief; and some have taught and preached that Originally planned to last no longer than 10 days according to President John Spratt, the procedure will begin March 16 with distribution of ballot cards in chapel and will last through the first week in April. According to the tentative Grace replaced Justice, that the schedule announced at the reg- laws of the New Testament re- ular meeting Monday, student placed the laws of the Old Testa- body and Honor Court nomina- ment, that the God of the Old tions will begin March 16-17 and Testament is not the God of the elimination voting for these of- New Testament, and even that fices will take place March 18. new revelations of God’s Word Presidential nominees will give are now coming to men which campaign speeches March 19. are superior to, and thus replace, the whole Bible! A week later candidates’ speeches for the YMCA and Such laymen and ministers are Union will be delivered during just as much at rebellion against chapel period March 26. The God as are the Atheists and all voting for these offices and pub- Anti-Christs. Posing as ministers lications editors, cheerleaders, of righteousness while serving and Freshman Adviser will be- the forces of darkness, they are gin after the period. even more dangerous than the outright professing atheists and God haters. For the Bible, as regards a revelation of God's Word, is a Holy Spirit gives born-again Chris- Nominations for the Stud- ent Council open March 25 with a deadline coming April 6 for prospects. Voting begins April 7, with council seat run- offs the next day. Among several election chang- candidate's ability to work with tians an UNDERSTANDING of es was the adoption of a rule the incoming freshmen. “What God's Word, such understanding allowing each candidate to dis- we try to get are the boys who is given only to that portion of tribute 200 copies of his plat- will get the respect of every type the total Word of God which has form, the tab to be picked up of freshman,” Mrs. Moore said. been revealed, recorded, and by the council. Spratt said that The hall counselors’ job is preserved in the Holy Bible. No new ballot boxes will also be in primarily referral, to help the more of God's Word will be re- use throughout the elections. freshman who needs help, to receive source. vealed to man until the Lord In other business at the meet it from the proper God Jesus Christ returns to this ing Monday, the council heard earth in His resurrected flesh a report on its dorm check This idea will be presented to, for His millennial rule. Any reve- earlier for missing library books. lations which men receive today The action apparently had some the prospective counselors in two dinner meetings in April, at which the relationships between freshmen and fraternities, Freshman Council, study, and church will be discussed. which claim to be from God, are effect on delinquent students from Satan and the evil spirits but the library lists were fre- of his present earthly kingdoms. quently outdated as many of Many people today, including those persons questioned had al- many professors and ministers, ready cleared matters with the library. The council feels that the library must take the initiative in restoring overdue and stolen books by keeping their lists up to date. In a conference with Dr. Chalmers Davidson, director of the library, and the Honor Court, the council will attempt to decide what actions should be taken about this problem. In commenting on a $33 bill from the National Student Association, Spratt announced that many of the proposed NSA programs have not materialized. Spratt also expressed hope that Davis Lee, a Negro newspaper leader in South Carolina, will be the chapel speaker on Monday. “Mr. Davis is opposed to the NAACP, and is described as having a ‘fairly conservative viewpoint’,” according to Spratt. If Lee cannot come, the program will be handled by Joe Howell and professors Philip Secor, Earl MacCormac and E. F. Patterson. Reporting on a letter from Vanderbilt, Spratt announced a mock Republican Party Convention to be held April 24-26 at Vanderbilt. The letter stated that there would be delegations from a wide area, and that Dr. David Judd would be one of the principal speakers. The council voted unanimously to underwrite the expenses of as many as five delegates from Davidson.

CITADEL FALLS, VMI CADETS NEXT (See Page Four)

NUMBER EIGHTEEN

’Cats Blow Whistle On Bulldogs To Launch Championship Drive

Town, Campus Cheer Wildcats To Victory

The library was not, nor the parking lot was not, and gone were basketball, and basketball was, and those of their fellow students and the booths wait for the Tall Ones to return. They knew it would be this way at Jackson’s Cleaners, where the Mayor chattered enthusiastically about how this was the greatest team the school had ever produced and how it had brought glory to the town. Tonight at 7:30 p.m. Davidson faces VMI in the second round of the Coliseum tournament. The team and coach could hardly be more confident than the townspeople and students. This is Davidson, N. C., Friday afternoon, Feb. 28, 1964: one town, one voice, one team, one spirit. Victory is the cry, and victory the prize.

March 14 New Date For March

The proposed civil rights march from Johnson C. Smith University to the post office in Charlotte, formerly scheduled for March 2, has been postponed, it was learned from Joe Howell, Davidson coordinator for the march. The march, now set for Saturday afternoon, March 14, will coincide more with the time that Congress will be debating the bill. The new date also allows the marchers more time for preparation and provides a more convenient time for neighboring schools which have afternoon classes. The purpose of the march, Howell reiterated, is “to show that in general we favor strong civil rights legislation.” He stated also, “Though we certainly favor passage of the bill presently before Congress, we do realize that there is a probability for changes in it as it now stands.” Pointing out the fact that the campus civil rights committee, with professors Philip Secor, Max E. Polley, and E. F. Patterson as advisors, was in no way connected with an official campus organization, Howell added, “We as individuals simply feel that this is a time to express our beliefs in action.” Copies of the controversial bill will be made available to the student body within the next two weeks.

SPRATT ON ELECTIONS:

In a sense, the elections changes for this year are a carefully contrived case of discrimination. Hopefully, the dabbling, undependable student will be at a distinct disadvantage. And hopefully, the new regulations will be a deterrent to those who are vying for a nice rush week title or a glossy picture in the annual or another statistic to fatten up their grad school applications.

By JOHN SPRATT

Notes on Election Changes

The Student Council has done more than to jettison a few of the old encumbrances. It has tampered with the tender philosophy that since everyone knows everyone at Davidson, elections need only to be mild and passive balloting. We have junked the old nominations system, for instance, in favor of a procedure that emphasizes individual initiative. We are allowing written statements of a candidate's platform to be circulated in the interest of promoting those candidates who have ideas and programs. We are requiring that a candidate make a decision in offering for student body office or honor court. We have compressed the elections period into a smaller space of time in order to encourage greater participation and discussion. It is hoped that these changes will favor the hard-working, well-informed, resourceful candidate. There will probably be men still elected to offices who care very little for the responsibility and who are unwilling to fulfill the obligations of their position. Elections will probably also remain mild and generally inhibited. But the man who wants the job will have a better chance than ever; the odds for the candidate who has ideas and wants to implement them are much improved. And who knows? Maybe we can cut down on some of the driftwood that floats in with every election.