PAGE FOUR

New Academic Policy Begun At Mid-Semester

By BOB HOLLADAY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dean of Students, Richard C. Burts, Jr., notified 145 students by letter last week that they had been placed on Academic Warning. Burts’ letter made three requests of the recipient. It asked him to assess his weaknesses and to create a plan for improvement, to consult his faculty or major advisor regarding the plan, and to make an appointment with the dean for further review of his academic record and plans for improvement.

The announcements were sent in compliance with the new faculty regulation adopted last spring by the college after it abolished its system of Academic Probation.

Freshmen Fall Below Grade Requirements

The mid-semester grade report revealed that the freshman class has fewer members fulfilling the minimum grade requirement than at this time last year. There were 45 to 50 freshmen who did not meet the more rigorous standard of 12 semester hours with a minimum of 12 quality points. 

Professor Rhodes said, “With a smaller freshman class this year, many professors had hoped to see a corresponding rise in freshmen grades, but there were no present indications of any such rise.” Dr. Rhodes also remarked that with fewer requirements the freshmen are perhaps benefiting by having time for more independent study and reading.

If last year's minimum requirements to avoid deficiencies are compared to this year’s freshmen class, over half of the freshmen with academic deficiencies at this time are passing less than 12 hours, and 17 freshmen have fewer than nine quality points.

Professor Rhodes, head of the freshman Humanities Department, mentioned that the grades in all of the freshman humanities groups were running very close to last year’s grades, mostly bunched in the C to C plus range.

Professor Jackson has noticed that the grades in his freshman math courses have been running behind the grades of last year’s freshman classes, but that some years classes for a particular professor are better than others and that any generalization of the whole freshman class from a single professor’s grades would be hard to make.

Thursday Speaker: Football Star - Now College President

Noah N. Langdale, Jr., president of Georgia State College, will speak in chapel Thursday on “The Last Best Hope.” He is to arrive on campus Wednesday afternoon and will leave Thursday morning, following a reception in the union.

Langdale obtained his AB from the University of Alabama in 1947, remaining the following year as assistant football coach. He then continued his education at Harvard, where he obtained his LLB in 1948 and his MBA in 1950. He later returned to the University of Alabama, receiving his LLD in 1959. Admitted to the Georgia bar in 1951, he practiced law from 1951 to 1957. He taught at Valdosta State College during this period, and in 1957 he was appointed as the President of Georgia State College by the Board of Regents.

At present, he is advisor to the National Thrift Committee, Director of the Fulton National Bank, and a member of the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce. He also is a member of the Football Hall of Fame.

While some fraternity pledge classes on campus have freshman grades comparable to years past, several fraternities have noted that freshman grades at the end of the first grading period are not as strong as usual. In some cases, a substantial number of pledges have failed to have an overall 1.0 average, necessary for initiation. It should be noted that the grades so far are not permanent, and that by the end of the semester, many may be greatly changed.

That freshman grades are suffering seems to be confirmed by some sources, and denied by others. Certainly, the grades at the present mid-semester mark have not risen abnormally. Different standards this year have made comparison difficult, but there are signs that by the end of the semester, when grades are permanent, the freshman class may not stack up academically to the freshmen of previous years.

The regulation reads: “At the end of each semester and of each middle semester grading period any student who failed to complete twelve hours of academic work and to maintain a twelve-quality-point level of achievement for the grading period under consideration will be notified in writing that:

“a. His academic achievement is unsatisfactory.
“b. He must report immediately to the Dean of Students for counseling and for such additional action as may be considered advisable for the improvement of his academic standing.”

“There is much more responsibility on the part of the student,” Burts said Tuesday. Enforced class attendance and prohibited off-campus representation in sports activities are not universally called for under the new ruling. “We want to see if there is anything we can do to help the man,” Burts said. “In most of the counseling sessions so far, self-evaluation has taken place.” He pointed out an example of one sophomore whose problem of too many extra-curricular activities had already been corrected by the student himself. “The student does whatever he wants to do, and the college tries to help him.”

About the overall effectiveness of the program, Burts said, “I think it’s too early to say,” though he did feel that in the college's policy toward students, “this is in the line of the way things are moving.”

In earlier years under the system of Academic Probation, the requirements were that a student earn nine hours of credit and six quality points. “This resulted in typically eight to 15 persons being put on probation.” Two years ago, the number of hours required was stepped up to 12 and the number of quality points to nine. Around 50 students failed to meet these requirements. Last year, the entire system of Academic Probation was dropped, and under Academic Warning a problem level of 12 hours and 12 quality points was established, below which it was felt unwise for a student to find himself. “We felt when a man fell below this level, we could counsel with him,” Burts explained. He said that the present situation gives him contact with almost three times the number of students he met with before.

A sophomore on Academic Warning said he favored the new system over the old. “It doesn't go to your parents. This way it goes to your faculty advisor and the dean, and that’s it.” But another student shrugged off the whole idea: “I don’t need any letter to tell me I’m in trouble.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

(Staff Photo By Smith)

JIM BARNES
The Original Davidson ‘Cycle Cat

McConnell Scholars Honored At Banquet

Davidson's McConnell Scholars were honored by the Faculty Scholarship Committee at a dinner in the Wildcat Room of the Union recently. McConnell Scholarships are the top scholarships awarded to matriculating freshmen, explains Dr. W. G. McGavock, chairman of the Scholarship Committee.

“We have two different scholarships programs,” points out Dr. McGavock.

Poll Reveals Attitudes On Subsidized Athletics

An informal poll revealed that campus opinion is fairly evenly divided over the proposal of Dr. W. G. McGavock that Davidson completely desubsidize its athletic program. One prevalent opinion was that membership in the non-subsidized College Athletic Conference would be a good thing for Davidson, but that this course of action would not be feasible at present in light of the national prominence of the basketball team. Others went along with complete non-subsidization for Davidson.

Senior Ed Boston said, “I'd like a change of conference, particularly the College Athletic Conference. It would be in keeping with Davidson's tradition as a small liberal arts college. We do well in the minor sports that are unsubsidized, and I think basketball and football could do as well.”

In a more practical vein, sophomore Walter Eastes voiced the opinion that, “As long as these sports can pay for themselves, it would be fine.”

Christmas Party Set For Barium Springs

The Interfraternity Council will sponsor its annual Barium Springs Christmas Party next Thursday night, Dec. 17. Approximately 70 children from the Presbyterian-supported orphanage will share in the festivities. They are scheduled to arrive on campus at 5:30 somewhere in the vicinity of the Pi Kappa Alpha house. A bus will leave five or six children grouped according to age at each of the fraternities. The orphans range in age from 6 to 13.

The first thing on the agenda is a get-acquainted session in which many of the fraternity pledges will act as hosts. Although the details of the parties will vary, depending on the age group of the children, there promises to be a great deal of excitement, games, and singing. After eating a special Christmas dinner, the children will sing carols and play games with the pledges. Since the pledges always manage to lose, the orphans always win some prize provided by the individual fraternity.

The highlight of the evening will be a visit from Santa Claus, who will distribute gifts to the children.Georgia as a division. In 1955, it became an independent unit of the University System. From the handful of students enrolled in 1913, the enrollment has now reached 5,600 with a projected estimate of 16,000 in 1980. Langdale has furthered the advancement of the college by equipping it with a better qualified and more creative faculty, a number of new degrees and programs, and a full student activities program. His plans to expand the physical plant of the school are becoming realized in a $20,000,000 building program which will help produce an urban complex of over 20 buildings by 1975. Alongside this growth, Langdale places great emphasis upon quality education which will enable graduates, in his words, to become “responsible citizens and civic leaders.”

Because of the age of the children, the parties will have to end by 8 p.m. This year's party and the early visit of Santa are being planned by a committee of IFC representatives headed by Jim Terry. It is their hope that by celebrating Christmas a week ahead of time, the students may have a chance to share with the less fortunate.

Davidson, Queens Plan WF Projects

The Davidson Westminster Fellowship and the Queens WF will carry out a work project tomorrow afternoon at the South Tryon Street Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Other plans include a work project in Charlotte on Jan. 9 again in conjunction with the Queens WF. On Jan. 15 there will be a program here at Davidson. Dinner will be served, followed by a discussion of the Eighth Annual Quadrennial Conference, a young people’s conference to be held in Richmond, Va., over the holidays. A WF spokesman said that plans are now underway to develop an intra-city effort among Presbyterian youth groups of all ages in Charlotte, to be loosely under the auspices of the WF. The spokesman stressed that anyone interested in helping to plan and initiate such a program is welcome.

Members of the faculty who were polled were unanimous in their approval of non-subsidized athletics. Norman Johnson, history instructor, says, “I’m fascinated with being able to beat people in basketball, but I'd go along with non-subsidization. Big-time athletics take away a lot from the student body. As an example, look at the number of home basketball games being played in Charlotte, 20 miles from the campus.” Dr. Locke White, professor of physics, also goes along with non-subsidization. Said White, “The sense of values of American higher education on subsidized athletics is pretty disturbing, but for Davidson to go so far is even more disturbing.”

Various ideas for improvement of the football program were offered by those who did not go along with non-subsidization. The suggestion heard most was an increase in the number of scholarships given to the football team. Senior Joe Clyde Gamble stated, “We should increase the number of football scholarships. We've got to decide what our goals are. With only 40 scholarships, Davidson might not be able to go big-time in football, but we could at least compete on an equal plane with our opponents.” This is the tenet of Dr. Tom Scott, director of physical education: “We want to be able to compete,” he says. “This can be done by increasing the Living Endowment and by improving our recruitment.” “With the proper use of funds, we could revitalize the football program,” thinks sophomore Arch McCallum. “If we were to deemphasize athletics, many boys wouldn’t be interested in coming to Davidson.”

Several students agreed that football should be completely desubsidized. Senior Rick Brand thinks that football scholarships should be discontinued and divided among basketball and minor sports which now receive no subsidies. Sophomore Frank Goldsmith says, “Football should be desubsidized, and basketball left as is. However, we ought to go along with the new coach until we see what he can do.” Several people polled thought that football should be left as it is now, feeling that its advantages outweigh its disadvantages. Eric Nichols, a junior, commented, “I realize we are playing over our heads with the number of scholarships we give. Still, they are very valuable to men who are really interested in getting an education. I think football scholarships should definitely be continued.”

McSavock: “The Dora Scholarships are given to upperclassmen on the basis of their college records. On the other hand, the McConnells are awarded to entering freshmen. The McConnell is without any question the top scholarship that we award to men who attend the Scholarship Weekend during the spring of their senior year in high school.” Seniors holding McConnells include Bob Bethel, Jimmy Bradley, Jim Feil, Rufus Hallmark, Clark Morrell, Ronnie Reese, David Pfohl, and David Walker. Included from the Junior Class are Phil Beidler, John Burks, Billy Clark, Walt Drake, Pat Hubbard, and Murray Smith. Four McConnell Scholars are participating in the Junior Year Abroad Program—John Good, Bob Groat, Tiff Harrington, and John Ouzts. Sophomores include John Altemose, David Lockman, Arch McCallum, and Will Norman. Gus Cochran, Ted Glusman, Mike May, and Jim Reinoehl are the freshman scholars.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1964

BICYCLES ABOUND

Wheels On Campus: More Students Ride

Recently at Davidson there has been noticed a superfluity of those who cannot make the adjustment to our easy-going Southern way of life. The group I am referring to is that close-knit clique, the Davidson bicyclers, or, as they like to be thought of, The ‘Cycling Cats. In a publicity release put out recently by The Bicycle Institute of America, the fact is pointed out that today’s large campuses demand some sort of quick and easy transportation for students. Here at Davidson many have seen this and have come up with an extremely practical solution—bicycles. No more long treks from one end of the campus to the other for these acute individuals! No more time-consuming hikes from dorm to Union, or from Chambers Building to the science buildings! Now it is only a matter of seconds to any point on this vast campus for these men. Hopping on their parked bikes, they swiftly buzz from activity to activity, saving time, energy, and, for the economy-minded, shoe leather.

Various means by which the school might capitalize on this “cycling craze” have been suggested by members of the faculty and student body. One excellent idea is the formation of a Davidson Wildcat Bicycle Team. (To date there is no real competition in the area, but again rumor has it that Bob Jones University in Greenville and Allen University in Columbia are organizing a competition-keep group). This team could consist of a hard core of our most dedicated bike men, coached by the talented wheeler, Bob Jones, and by the experienced H. Edmunds White. After they have been sufficiently established and have proven themselves to be beneficial to the college monetarily and publicity-wise, scholarships could be given and a special bike-stadium could be erected. At the present time, team hopefuls are forced to practice on campus, using pedestrian paths to practice speed cycling, and pedestrians to practice dodge cycling.

Another proposal concerning the administration's capitalization on bikes is for the school to purchase two or three dozen tandem bikes for rent by the students. This has been done at Northern Illinois University and has proven a great success. There the avant-garde daringly wheel their dates down country lanes and wooded paths. Here at Davidson, the same type of recreation would be appreciated and enjoyed.

A third proposal is a tax on all cycles on campus. Such a plan is in effect at Vassar now, and it seems wise for Davidson to adopt it also. A bumper sticker and a small yearly remittance based on the combined weights of the individual bike and rider would not only help patch up paths and pedestrians disfigured by bike traffic, but would also prove to be an added source of income for the college.

All of these proposals seem very feasible, and it is hoped that in time they will be acted upon. If not, it will be a great loss to the college and student body alike. The national prestige which would come from a crack Davidson Bike Team, not to mention the monetary recompense, should be carefully considered and acted upon.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

The famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

Illustrated: 4-4-2 Convertible

Miss America steps out on campus

If you can tear your eyes off pretty Vonda Kay Van Dyke for a moment, we'd like to tell you about the car: Oldsmobile’s new 4-4-2. Earns its name from a 400-cu.-in., 345-bhp V-8 ... 4-barrel carb ... and twin pipes. Red-line tires, heavy-duty suspension, three transmission availabilities liven up the package—no matter which F-85 V-8 coupe or convertible you pick for your 4-4-2 action! But the real clincher is price: 4-4-2 prices start lower than any other high-performance car in America designed for everyday driving! Vonda, by the way, is not included. But that’s no problem for a tiger like you! Watch for the 4-4-2... coming to your Oldsmobile Quality Dealer's soon!