Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Concept Of Honor

Our editorial last week urging that students be allowed to attend services at any church in lieu of vespers at
the College Church has prompted responses from a number of concerned students. Inevitably, they say: “It's fine here in town,
but it won't work if you get out of this vicinity. It'll put too great a strain on the Honor
System.” Balderdash.

An honor system is based on the assumption that the majority of those living under it are honorable men. If
such an assumption is false, we may as well forget an honor system. However, if such an assumption is true
(and we believe it is at Davidson), then we have the base for an honor system. False is the idea
advanced that the Honor System loses significance as the distance between the student and the College increases. The person advancing
such an argument is not speaking of an honor system; rather he has in mind a system of fear and
intimidation, overshadowed by the “axe.”

When the student leaves the College, he escapes the reach of the “axe.” But on the other hand, when the
College and student are separated, the strength of an Honor Code does not diminish, for the basis of the system
lies in the moral fiber of the individual. No matter where the individual goes, the concept of honor is always
with him.

We have always thought that the system at Davidson was one based on personal honor. If our understanding of the
Davidson system is incorrect, if the system is in actuality based on threats of punishment, then we should stop dignifying
it with such a respected name as “Honor Code,” we must acknowledge its foundation as one of fear of punishment.
However, if we are to consider our code a system of honor, then we must be willing to put our
faith in the honesty on the part of the vast majority of our fellow students. This is the concept Davidson
has nurtured through the years; this is the concept Davidson should continue to nurture.

And one last remark—Let us cease this contradictory chatter of “straining” the Honor System. A man may live by a
system of honor; or a man may violate a system of honor. But never does a man “strain” a system
of honor. The concept is self-contradictory.

CLD

The Oath

In Committee in February the trustees approved a greatly modified faculty oath. Yesterday, to comply with their regulation that charter
changes be approved at two consecutive meetings, the trustees were expected to “rubber stamp” their February action. They didn’t.

Normally, the faculty would howl, the newspaper would howl, and perhaps even some trustees would howl. But the action yesterday
referring the oath back to the Education Committee was not a “referral to committee” in the American sense of the
phrase “pigeonhole.” Rather it was a sincere attempt to arrive at a more acceptable solution to the oath issue than
the February decision.

Trustee President J. McDowell Richards indicated that the discussion between several trustees and about a dozen faculty members Wednesday night
influenced his thinking on the subject. We are delighted that the session was a boon, and we are confident that
further consultation between trustee and faculty will lead to a solution from the trustees which will be better received than
the February action.

CLD

‘Beyond The Academic’

Professor Bradley D. Thompson would not have wanted a eulogy. And he slashed enough platitudes from enough papers that to
be even slightly platitudinous would be a discredit to his memory. This was his method. He was not a flashy
lecturer or a classroom performer. But he had the scrutinizing eye of a true scholar and one of the keenest,
quickest, most perceptive minds I have ever encountered.

If I remember anything from my four years at Davidson, I will remember the evenings we spent in his home,
poring over documents of early English history, piecing together primary sources, quietly marveling as he corrected the mistakes in our
translated versions from his Latin text.

I will remember the feeling he infused into English constitutional history, the meaning he could squeeze out of dry, desiccated
facts, and, above all, his warm response to a bright observation. He always seemed to enjoy his work, but he
would respond best, teach best, when you yourself, the student, were at your best. And he gave the finest reward
a student can have, the professor’s appreciation of his ideas.

Professor Thompson detested “soft” thinking. He had little patience for the student who began sentences with unsupported subjects of the
“I feel” variety. He seldom asked for the narrative recounting of facts. In a three-hour lecture course, he was teaching
a way of looking at history, critical analysis, sensitive thinking.

This was why Brad Thompson never cared to cover all the material in his lectures, and it is also probably
why he opposed comprehensive examinations. The student who understood Prof. Thompson’s purposes in teaching found his classes much more than
just another history course and gained from him a new understanding of scholarship.

Professor Brad Thompson's contribution was the unheralded one. Few really know how much he did to establish the Richardson Scholarship
program as one of the best-administered foreign student programs in the nation. He did a solid job in everything, with
never-ending devotion for detail.

Looking back over four years at Davidson, I realize that a great part of the Davidson education is simply the
men who give it to you, their integrity, their concern, their value patterns. Prof. Brad Thompson was one of those
professors whom it was an experience merely to study under. His influence reached beyond the academic. I will probably remember
longer than English constitutional history Brad Thompson’s great personal and scholarly integrity, his solid honesty, his simple dignity.

Professor Bradley D. Thompson touched the lives of uncounted students. His inspiration lives on in them.

Spratt

Associate Editors
Rick von Unwerth
Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg

Managing Editors
John Todd
Mike Harrington

Copy Editor
Rufus Adair

News Editor
Ron Snow

Feature Editor
Tom Loflin

Sports Editor
Johnny Clark

Photographers
Sam Smith
Tom Thel

Cartoonists
Jack Lingle
Johnny Wright
Rufus Hallmark
John Compton

Asst. Business Mng.
Irvine Welling

Advertising Manager
Ned Kelly

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Contributors this week: Allen Webb, Bob Holladay, Cliff Kirkpatrick, Bill Norfleet, Bill Briggs, John Bailey, Ed Maxwell, Jimmy White, Harry
Carr, Ron Snow, Greg Govan, Monty Johnson, Britt Snider, Bob Vance, Bill Foster, Bob Strauser, Bob Rhea, Tim Rothermel, Buck
Lawrimore, Bob Vance, Forrest Roles, Wayne Lane, Preston St. Clair, Tuck Jones and Don Tyler.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

As ROTC Wrecks A Concert...

WE MAY HAVE TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF CLEANING PERIODS AFTER MANEUVERS, THE GUYS SEEM A LITTLE RELUCTANT TO FIRE
UP THEIR WEAPONS.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Liberal Vespers Policy Blasted As ‘Impractical’

Littrell

Dear Editor:

I would like to suggest with regard to your editorial, “Vespers Revisited,” of May 8 that your opinions are in
some cases impractical, and in others irrational.

First let us examine the practical aspects of your statement. I gather that it is your opinion that a system
of (almost) complete freedom should be instituted by the college in the matter of church attendance...

The problem of a “forced” and therefore “antagonistic” religion is not eliminated, but made only slightly more “optional.” In addition,
your proposed revamp would create very definite problems for the Davidson Honor Code. Specifically, the system creates yet another temptation
for the student. If, as you suggest, the “average” student thinks of Vespers as a “mockery,” then it follows that
there would exist a tremendous temptation to oppose this “mockery” by ignoring it. This, despite the traditional honor of the
Davidson Gentleman, would be especially true if the student were divorced from the Davidson community both by distance and by
fellowship.

The second problem which I see in your editorial is involved in your statement to the effect that “...only a
cynic would dare label the episode (of Vespers) ‘spiritually moving.’” Cynical in itself, the statement can in no way aid
in the elimination of the problem. There is, I admit, a problem. However, it involves more the Vespers congregation than
the institution of Vespers itself. The “ideal of community worship” which you seem to feel is being sought is in
fact a myth—perpetrated only by our ignorance, and our failure to respond.

We must hold ourselves responsible. Worship of any kind becomes “...a mockery of religion...” only when the participants themselves are
mockers; Vespers becomes “...the most entertaining hour of the week...” only when the congregation is seeking entertainment. A religious service
becomes meaningful only when one desires more from it than a “farce.” This is true no matter how the Administration
chooses to regulate attendance at religious functions. We too have a responsibility—to ourselves if to no one else; before we
can reasonably hope for college understanding, we must meet this responsibility.

Jim Littrell

White

Dear Editor:

From time to time I have observed casually but with considerable respect the service rendered by members of Alpha Phi
Omega, the national service fraternity. Last week I observed it fairly intimately, when Alpha Phi Omega helped extensively with registration
for the meeting of the North Carolina Academy of Science. To the best of my knowledge, most of the members
who helped with the registration had no direct involvement with science; yet they helped just the same. For their voluntary
service they have my sincere gratitude and respect.

Locke White, Jr.
Prof. of Physics

Suter

Dear Editor:

The recent outrage on the part of the ROTC department was highly uncalled for since it interfered with the performance
of David Richey's string quartet in the Fine Arts Building. Perhaps the ROTC department could do a better job of
scheduling next time.

David Suter

Ferris

Before leaving Davidson I would like to make clear my feelings about the college and the criticism I have occasionally
voiced in this column. I do not want to leave the impression that my letters were the efforts of a
misguided student attempting to undermine the institution.

My letters were the expression of a very deep love for Davidson and for the individuals who make her life
possible. Our lives here are deeply affected by...associations from janitors to the president. Every act on this campus is felt
by these individuals: we are all emotionally bound to this undefined object we call Davidson. All of us work within
our spheres here in an effort to add our mite of wisdom to this object we love so much. Criticism
in such a context is inevitably taken personally. It is this aspect of my thoughts which I would like to
make clear. It often is very difficult to question the actions taken by individuals without creating the feeling that the
critic is attacking the individual personally. I have tried to maintain the painfully thin line between constructive criticism and personal
attack. Where I have failed I am sorry. I realize that most of my letters were neither needed nor heeded.
My purpose was not to provide any answers but to raise questions. My feelings like those of every individual change
from day to day. If my thoughts have served to disturb the waters of minds on this campus then they
have succeeded in their purpose.

Bill Ferris

Segregationist Finds Northern Supporters

By SEABORN JONES

In this season of presidential primaries something a little out of the ordinary is taking place. This “something,” of course,
is the appearance of Alabama’s Democratic, but states-rightist and segregationist, Governor George C. Wallace on the scene. I do not
mean to praise Wallace personally in this article, but I do believe his showings in Wisconsin and Indiana deserve some
comment. President Johnson chose not to have his name entered in either the Wisconsin or Indiana primaries and left the
supposedly routine task of securing for him the two states’ convention votes up to the Democratic governors (both Johnson supporters)
of the two states. Neither Johnson nor Governor Reynolds of Wisconsin nor Welsh of Indiana counted on Wallace. In Wisconsin,
a month ago, Wallace rolled up a total of 264,000 votes after Governor Reynolds had stated that if the Alabama
Governor got as many as 100,000 votes it “would be a catastrophe.” In Indiana last week Wallace grabbed off nearly
thirty percent of the votes cast in the Democratic primary and probably carried the cities of Gary and Hammond. Exactly
what does this prove? Liberal Democrats in both states are quick to attribute much of Wallace’s success to Republican cross-overs,
but Wisconsin’s Governor Reynolds probably came nearer to the truth when he said, “All that Mr. Wallace has demonstrated is
what we've known all along. We have a lot of people who are prejudiced.” Undoubtedly, many of those who voted
for Governor Wallace did so because of racial prejudice, but I believe that a substantial amount of his support came
from people sincerely opposed to the pending Civil Rights Bill (or portions thereof). Wallace’s avowed purpose in running in these
primaries has been to give the Democratic voters a chance to register their displeasure concerning the bill. In Indiana he
said, “You have a good opportunity to kill the bill by voting for me.” I personally do not think that
the Civil Rights Bill will or ought to be ‘killed’, but I do think that the measure of success Wallace
has attained in Wisconsin and Indiana should cause the Senate to at least seriously consider modification of certain sections of
the bill. It seems to me that the opinions of a considerable number of people as registered by their votes
in the presidential primaries of Wisconsin and Indiana should carry as much weight as civil rights demonstrations and the threat
of more of the same. Northern liberals really ought to be thankful that they only had to contend with Wallace—a
man who at best has a bad “image.” As Time magazine noted in its April 17th issue, “what might have
happened if a man with a ‘good image’—Virginia's Harry Byrd, for example, or Georgia's Dick Russell—had run in Wisconsin and
Indiana instead?”

'64 ‘Quips And Cranks’: Reviewer Disappointed

By JOHN B. McCLATCHEY

The 1964 Quips and Cranks has resulted in a disappointment for me. Assuming there is at least a modicum of
creative talent, it shows a marked lack of imagination and, in my opinion, reveals a deficiency of staff work and
perseverance. In the field of photography there seems to have been some ability existent; however, in the spaciousness and forced
creativeness of the introductory pages any chance for aesthetic appeal is lost in expanses of blank white paper. These spots
could have been much more effectively used by art or pictures than by the copy editor's explorations of Eastern philosophy
and his conglomeration of “poetry.” The layout as a whole reaches, at points, peaks of strained adequacy. The sections themselves
are very like those of the run-of-the-mill high school publication. This only shows the inability of the students to choose
the best creative talent to lead the staff. If there is a saving grace, it must be the excellent photographic
work in the introduction and division pages. Whatever aesthetic or stimulating effect this achieves is demolished by the copy. As
soon as one tries to read the poems aloud, he is struck by the tongue-twisting impossibility of such an undertaking.
The meter and meaning are not readily apparent to me. They seem to be lost in euphemistic attempts at sentiment,
which is not actually present in the thoughts of the students. The division pages appealed to my sense of aesthetics.
They were used very effectively in presenting the season as a theme: and again the photography added a good deal.
The number of pages devoted to each section is rather strange. Admittedly Davidson was able to field an extremely good
basketball team, but this does not justify the allotment of almost as many pages to the athletic section as to
the activities section. From this we could infer that athletics are as important as all other school sanctioned activities combined.
Stephen Crane has an interesting thought in his contribution to the annual. He says in a tone of defeat, “Doubtless
there are other roads.” I hope the staff searched for some of the more interesting roads, but I think they
chose the wrong one.

‘There Is Going To Be Violence’

By JOE HOWELL

Last Monday a civil rights speaker was met with a rather harsh reaction by a large number of Davidson students.
Granted, his aggressive tone and critical attitude concerning the South were not appealing. Granted, he spoke in emotional generalizations and
challenged white liberals to speak out. Granted, he drove in one point: “... the reason for the militancy movement in
the Negro community today is the lack of responsibility of white liberals. If you don't become involved there is going
to be violence...” Hill's message was met with whistles, laughs and cynical applause. Before we write Herbert Hill off as
one who does not know what he is talking about, we might look over his record. In his role of
labor secretary for the NAACP, he travels throughout most of the fifty states each year. After leaving Davidson, he went
directly to Detroit where he had a conference with the president of General Motors Corporation concerning their hiring policies. From
Detroit, Hill is to go to Berkeley, Calif., where he is keynote speaker for a conference in the graduate school
of political science concerning the racial crisis. During the afternoon, he received long distance telephone calls from a civil rights
leader in Chicago, a labor leader in New York, and ABC-TV, asking him to appear on a network broadcast. Hill
has graduate degrees in history and economics from NYU, and besides being a full professor at the new school of
Social Research in New York, he has lectured recently at such schools as Harvard, Princeton, MIT, Yale, Columbia, UCLA, Berkeley,
and the University of Chicago. In the South, he has been to Emory, Vanderbilt, and Duke. Hill has made many
reports to congressional committees concerning the Negro economic situation, has written three books and numerous articles, and has served as
special consultant to the United Nations Conference on Eradication of Discrimination. For many, Hill's delivery left something to be desired,
but there is one thing he did do. He expressed the feelings of despair and frustration that so many people
in the civil rights struggle today feel. He spoke in a tone of urgency and issued a challenge. He did
not try to be a good guy or present a dignified image, for like so many leaders in the Negro
movement, Hill is fed up with trying to maintain an image. When he made an emotional plea for our support,
he was not simply being dramatic. The fact is, whether we think he is right or not, the present leaders
in the civil rights struggle have almost reached the breaking point. For twenty years Hill has been involved in a
struggle which now, from his point of view, seems to be at a standstill. The Negro unemployment rate is almost
four times greater than that of the white and is not being diminished. Only one percent of the Southern schools
have been desegregated since 1954. More and more Negroes are losing faith in men like King, Roy Wilkins and James
Farmer and are joining the Black Muslim movement. More and more Negroes are tired of waiting and are tired of
white promises. Hill more than anything else wanted to impart this sense of despair and frustration. Our response was one
of ridicule and hostility. Perhaps Hill needs more faith. Perhaps more faith and patience is what is needed on the
part of the entire Negro community. After all “300 years is but a tick on eternity’s clock.” Yet, listening to
Mr. Hill and hearing of the times he and his colleagues have been spit upon, have been thrown in jail,
have been promised concessions which were never granted, I can't help wondering what I would do in his position. I
can't help asking myself how much a human being can endure. When Mr. Hill left Davidson he was very disappointed.
“Don't they believe me?" he said. “Don't they understand the critical time we are in?” He sadly mentioned he had
never talked with a group of more uninformed students anywhere in his twenty years of work in colleges and universities
all over the country. He was appalled by the lack of concern, the hostility, the lack of understanding of the
situation. He could not understand why people reacted the way they did. Sure, it was because of his attitude and
his delivery. Sure, he is expecting too much from Southern college students. Sure, he should have been diplomatic and should
have met us on our level. The sad fact is that neither Hill nor the other leaders in the Negro
struggle are any longer willing to meet us on our ground. We don’t like this. It is very frightening and
does not present a very happy future. Hill came here making a final plea. He is desperate. We gave him
an answer.
