So eee VOL. LII The Davidsonian DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. CIVIL RIGHTS PROVOKES CAMPUS CONTROVERSY (See Page Two) FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1964 NUMBER TWENTY Civil Rights March Set For 3 P. M. Tomorrow Committee Turns Down Proposed Alternative The Davidson Civil Rights Committee has said that it will shun a proposal made last Friday by President D. G. Martin and carry out plans tomorrow for a demonstration in Charlotte with nine other schools. The scheduled walk from Davidson into Charlotte, however, has been cancelled. The schedule for the demonstration inside Charlotte has finally been fixed. It calls for students from Davidson, Queens, Johnson C. Smith, Catawba, Livingston, Pfeiffer, Barber-Scotia, Belmont Abbey, and Charlotte College to adhere to the following procedure: At three o'clock on the campus of Johnson C. Smith, a Negro university, the students from the nine schools will meet for a rally, at which several speeches about civil rights and race relations will be given. Joe Howell, student leader in organizing Davidson participation in the demonstration, and Dr. E. F. Patterson, Davidson professor of economics, will be included among the speakers. The students at the rally—Howell estimates 750—will then march double-file along the sidewalk from Johnson C. Smith to the main post office in Charlotte. The march will begin between 3:30 and 3:45. The marchers will carry signs stating that they are in favor of strong civil rights legislation. At the post office, a delegation from each school will be chosen to mail petitions addressed to President Lyndon B. Johnson. A sample of the petition, urging the President to support the civil rights legislation, appeared two weeks ago in THE DAVIDSONIAN. The students will then march back to Johnson C. Smith, again double-file along the sidewalk. The march to the post office and back has been approved by the Charlotte Police Dept., and protection will be provided along the entire route to the marchers. On return to the Negro campus, the marchers will be served food, and will remain until the early evening for some type of entertainment. “We don’t know just yet what the entertainment will be,” said Howell. “It will probably be a hootenanny type thing. We just want to have a little time for the students from the various schools to socialize.” President Martin in a letter to Dr. Max E. Polley, a Bible professor, last Friday suggested an alternate plan for the demonstration. The proposal from Martin called for the students to send a small delegation to the post office to mail the petition after the rally at Johnson C. Smith, rather than having a large march with several hundred participants. Two paragraphs from the letter read: “It seems to me that almost 100% of the objectives which you have in this endeavor could be achieved, and the dangers inherent in the march from Johnson C. Smith to the Post Office could be largely avoided by the election of a representative from each of the groups participating in this project and the marching of these representatives from Johnson C. Smith to the Post Office.” Professors who have said that they will march include Philip B. Secor, Patterson, Polley, J. V. Applewhite, and W. G. Workman. Howell estimated between 50 and 75 students from Davidson would participate and had given his word that full press coverage would take place. Martin said that he had called President-Emeritus of Davidson John R. Cunningham, chairman of the Mayor's Community Relations Committee in Charlotte. He said that Cunningham implied his concern over the fact that Davidson would have its name involved with the march. “I think he is concerned with all the schools, however.” (Staff Photo by Smith) Martin Interprets DECISIONS FACE THE STUDENT Elections are here again Boston, Ferguson, Hefner, Jackson Seek Presidency (Staff Photo by Smith) JOE HOWELL In pursuit of Spratt, Arbuckle Draw Up Letter To Faculty Group BY RON SNOW In a move to spur action on the part of the Student Faculty Conference Committee, John Spratt and Howard Arbuckle have drawn up a five-point letter to be sent to Dean Richard C. Burts. Arbuckle said that the purpose of this move was to try to put student body responsibility in areas where it could serve the student better than a faculty committee could. The five main points of the letter are: They feel that the Student Body President and the Honor Court President should be consulted in case of student discipline relating to conduct. They feel that the Honor Court should have priority in all cases except those handled by the Executive Committee. A student who is campussed should not be made to serve an additional sentence for a minor violation, but should serve his 30 days straight and be through with it. Overcutting chapel or vespers should result in a reduction, by one-half, of the number of cuts allowed for that student the next semester. Overcutting a second time should result in campussing. They feel that social probation should be a disciplinary penalty rather than campussing. A student on social probation should not be allowed to participate or attend any fraternity function other than meals. The Student Council and Arbuckle discussed these points and questioned the merit of a few of them. The second point seemed a little strong, it was noted, while the fourth contained an easy loophole. The fifth point wouldn't hinder an Independent at all. Spratt mentioned to the council that Dean Burts says the Student Faculty Conference Committee is constantly rethinking its stand on the Campus Code. Noticing that nothing is said about it at meetings of the committee, Spratt said, “If the Student Faculty Conference Committee is thinking about the Campus Code, they must be doing it individually and mighty secretly.” Consulting with head cheerleader Danny King, the Student Council decided that a new policy for electing cheerleaders was necessary before the upcoming elections. King felt that only cheerleaders could choose cheerleaders, because they knew what was needed. If the students were to elect them it would be largely a matter of popularity, he said. “Popular guys just aren't always the best cheerleaders,” said King. After considerable discussion of ideas on the best method of choice, King supplied the eventual answer. King wished that there be no more than 10 cheerleaders in all. This number was later raised to 11, and includes three girl cheerleaders. Those interested in being a cheerleader must sign a list in the head cheerleader’s room. The outgoing senior cheerleaders will choose from this list a slate of nominees totaling twice the number needed. The Student Body will then vote on the slate of nominees. The head cheerleader will be elected by the new cheerleaders, and will have authority over the group which will include power of dismissal. Arbuckle presented to the council a new method of electing the Honor Court chairman, announcing that the Honor Court had met and approved the plan. The chairman would be elected by the incumbent court with recently elected members excluded from the voting. The Honor Court recorder shall be elected by both old and new court members. Only those members with previous experience shall be eligible for the office. The positions shall be filled during the time of the regular spring election period as soon as the new court is elected. Tom Frist and Tommy Stafford reported to the council the results of the freshman poll concerning Freshman Regulations. The most notable result of the poll was the overwhelming favor for a short and strict enforcement period of the regulations. Stafford, Spratt, and Frist met this afternoon to decide the coming year. Spratt, who is on the Curriculum Committee, told the council of his talk with Dr. Frontis Johnston. Johnston had told him that he didn't want a student voting in the committee, and that he thinks sometimes students should not be present at the meetings. Spratt wants to try to get a student on the committee with some established regularity.To mail the petitions to Congress, aioe be conditioned on the end of the first semester, and radio, television, and newspaper coverage of the entire project, including the meetings and activities at Johnson C. Smith.” Martin said about his proposal. “It was a suggestion that seemed to me to have a great deal of merit and that would carry out the basic objectives of the individuals without the inherent risk of violence that is always present in demonstrations of this sort." Martin said that he could promise press coverage because he had talked with Mayor Stan R. Brookshire of Charlotte before presenting his plan to the committee and that the mayor had both approved the plan as Davidson students would demonstrate.

March Rule

Faculty Regulations on student conduct state, “Student parades must be limited to the campus and athletic field.” President D. G. Martin interpreted the rule today: “The parade in Charlotte is not an official student parade. It is a parade of individuals. The Civil Rights Committee is not a college organization, as I understand it, but one of the entire community. The rule was intended for other situations than the one in Charlotte.” Martin, however, said that at a later date the Faculty or the Executive Committee could make a different interpretation. He said that in the case of a different interpretation by either body, punitive action could be taken against the students involved.

Martin's proposal had been made earlier, it might have been acceptable. “Two weeks ago, I did not expect a reaction against the march. I felt like it was a minor demonstration—in fact, I prefer the words ‘rally’ and ‘walk.’ Perhaps had we anticipated that so many people in Charlotte would express such concern, we might have planned only a rally at Johnson C. Smith.” Polley stressed the fact that he did not feel that Martin had placed any pressure on the civil rights group or that he had tried to place pressure on it for the officials in Charlotte. "The administration could have been no better in this," he said. “I found the president to be very reasonable throughout all my contacts with him." Polley said that the major

254 Sign Petition Against Demonstration

WHEREAS the proposed Civil Rights legislation transcends the question of race and racial integration, and the proposed Civil Rights legislation—in the dubious hope of establishing certain minority privileges—will result in the abolition of numerous historic and fundamental individual rights of all citizens, and the announcement by certain students at Davidson College of their intention to march in Charlotte on March 14 in behalf of the proposed Civil Rights legislation has led to the public identification of Davidson College and its student body as advocates of the legislation, and the staging of a mass demonstration in the streets of Charlotte will harm the satisfactory yet delicate race relations within that city, and

WHEREAS the staging of any mass demonstration always carries the potential of disorder, violence, and bloodshed, the undersigned students of Davidson petition the news media of the area to make known our displeasure with and opposition to their activities in support of the proposed Civil Rights legislation.

Four juniors—Ed Boston, Charles Taylor, Donald Tyler, and Will Jackson—are campaigning for the Student Body Presidency. Because of the small number of candidates, there will be no run-off on Tuesday as originally announced by the Student Council. The candidates will present speeches in chapel next Thursday. The remainder of the elections schedule will continue according to the original plan.

Candidates for vice president are Bob Bryan, Bill Council, Joe Davis, Dave Hardeman, Andy Little, Dave Meschan, and Arnie Snider. In the race for secretary-treasurer are nine candidates—Stanley Brown, Don Carroll, Henry Cochran, Edward Dwelle, John Fagg, Tom Frist, Chris Hawk, Tommy Leslie, and Ron Snow. According to Walt MacDonald, who is in charge of the election registration, the new system devised by Fred Sackett of filing for office “is working very well.” MacDonald will be in Duke 13 from 2-6 p.m. and from 6:30-12 Tuesday to register candidates for Student Council representative. Hours on Wednesday are 2:30-6 and 6:30-9 p.m.

Juniors running for Honor Court are Lowrie Beacham, Pete Coggeshall, Larry Compton, Roger David, Steve Davidson, David Grant, Richard Grant, Bill Haile, Merry Hardy, Barney Lewis, Steve Ramsburgh, Arthur Ross, and Bobby Waites. Class of 1966 members in the race for Honor Court are Butch Allison, Thom Blair, Danny Boone, Bill Briggs, John Burks, John Callendar, Lee Fanning, Decker Faw, Pat Hubbard, Buck Lawrimore, Fred Lewis, Eric Nichols, Steve Rostan, Robert Whitton, Jim Wilson, and Greg Wired. Freshmen who have filed for Honor Court are John Bailey, Wade Bodiford, Wayne Edwards, John Jeter, John Helm, Stephen Humphrey, Dick Kinred, George Shackelford, and Alva Whitehead.

THE CANDIDATES

BOSTON, an economics major, is from Claremont. He is holding a 1.9 grade point average.

HEFFNER is a pre-med from Newton. He is a member of the track and cross-country teams and has served as Secretary-treasurer and first vice-president of the Student Council during the past two years. He holds a 2.4 grade point average and is a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.

A native of Laurens, S. C., FERGUSON is a pre-med and sings in the Male Chorus. He is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity and has a 2.0 grade point average.

JACKSON is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity and comes from Decatur, Ga. He has a 1.6 grade point average and is majoring in psychology. Jackson has been a member of the football team and the Student Council, serving on the latter as president of the sophomore class and as second vice-president.

Eight Are Named To Phi Beta Kappa

Six seniors, one student who was graduated at the end of the first semester, and one junior have been elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa. Established in 1923, the Davidson chapter requires a B-plus average for membership. Election to the society is the highest recognition of excellence in scholarship that an undergraduate can achieve.

John Hall, a German major, is from Damascus, Va. He is president of Delta Phi Alpha, German honorary society, and is treasurer of Sigma Upsilon, creative writing honorary. Hall, completing his undergraduate work at Davidson in three years, has been named recipient of a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship.

Walt Eckman, a pre-medical student from Houston, is a member of Phi Delta Theta and Alpha Epsilon Delta, pre-medical honorary fraternity. Last fall he was named to the All South soccer team.

Phil Lewis, a major in French from Kingsport, Tenn., studied last year at Aix-en-Provence in France. He is scholarship chairman of Cercle Francais and Philanthropic Literary Society.

Bob Pierce, a pre-ministerial student from Norfolk, Va., is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon. He and his wife Dianne have one child.

Bill Pridgen, a history major from Myrtle Beach, S. C., is a member of Beta Theta Pi and Alpha Phi Omega, national service fraternity. Last year Pridgen was Sports Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Dave Schade, a pre-medical student from Washington, D. C., completed his requirements for graduation at the end of the first semester. He belonged to Sigma Chi and was a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta.

Jim Thompson, a physics major, is from Charlotte. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon and Sigma Pi Sigma, physics honorary society.

David Walker, a pre-medical student from Brentwood, Tenn., is a junior. Walker is a Beta and a member of Phi Eta Sigma, freshman scholastic honorary. He is a member of the varsity football and wrestling teams.