FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1964 HOMECOMING BUSINESS Trustees Here Today For Autumn Meeting By TIM ROTHERMEL Davidsonian Staff Writer THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE SIX Barrow Inspires Freshmen With His Joe Jones Award Sims (123 Belk), Top Contender For The Notorious Anti-Frosh Joe Jones Award! Give Your All For The Cause of Liberty. Freshmen to unite against their common enemy. Another sign made by a would-be political science major read, “Do Your Part! A Rebellion Is Fomenting Against Jesse Sims for Big Brother.” By JACK AUGUSTITUS Davidsonian Feature Writer Contrary to what the freshmen might think, the Freshman Regulations have accomplished something this year: In spite of the lack of the usual water fights and only one abortive attempt to burn the beanies, the freshmen have shown an unusual amount of class unity for this short period of time. This fact can be traced to only one source, John Barrow, Freshman Advisor. Barrow has been praised by upperclassmen and freshmen alike for his administration of the Freshman Court, his organization and planning of the Field Day, the publicity of all Freshman events, and the institution of the Joe Jones Award. Most of the praise was directed towards the ingenuity with which justice was handed out by the court. The Joe Jones Award probably caused more controversy among the freshmen than any other measure instituted by Barrow. Jesse Sims, the evident winner of this award, has been the victim of a smear campaign by the freshmen. Signs have been appearing on campus with passionate pleas to Three Fall Retreats Planned For Students In a continuing effort to instill new life into the Davidson religious atmosphere, three retreats will be sponsored Oct. 24-25 by campus organizations. Each retreat has been organized around a different theme and all will be open to any interested student. Student leaders stress that diversity is being offered rather than competition among the groups. Faculty members have been tentatively invited. The Westminster Fellowship will hold its retreat in Montreat attempting to create a subjective religious atmosphere in contrast to the usual intellectual emphasis on campus, according to president Charles Raynal. Experiments in worship and meditation will be mixed with liberal portions of free time for social activities with the Frosh Council Shape Program For Future Freshman Council has undertaken several projects during the first weeks of the school year and plans to remain active throughout the year in many areas, according to John Barrow, Freshman Advisor. The annual Freshman-Sophomore Field Day, the group's first undertaking, was executed by the Planning, Publicity, and Personnel Committees appointed by the Council. The Planning and Publicity Committees were also responsible for organizing the recent mixer with the Converse College freshmen. Regarding plans for the near Music Convocation To Hear Sowerby Dr. Leo Sowerby, internationally recognized American composer of organ and church music, will be the guest lecturer and conductor for Davidson's 5th Annual Convocation of Sacred Music, next Friday and Saturday. The two-day Convocation opens with a noon luncheon on Friday at which time Sowerby will address the delegates on the subject “The Search for Perfection in Worship.” Sowerby will conduct a concert of his own music at 8 p.m., Friday, in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Participants will be the Queens College Choir, the Davidson College Male Chorus and Wind Ensemble, and members of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. Saturday's events will begin at 10 a.m. at the College Church with a seminar on church music of local composers with Sowerby as moderator. At 11:30 a.m., a concert of shorter works by Sowerby will be performed by the Covenant Presbyterian Church Choir of Charlotte, Grier Williams, trumpeter, Robert Stigall, guest organist, and student organists of Davidson College. future Barrow commented, “Parents Day is the only thing that the council is required to do, but a Special Projects Committee is investigating the possibility of future activities.” Freshmen Parents Day, scheduled for Nov. 7, will be under the direction of the council's Steering Committee. Barrow, who is serving as moderator until a president is elected by the council after the first grading period, remarked, “The members have shown an unusual amount of enthusiasm and seem to be willing to work in making the organization do a good job in representing the freshmen.” The members of the council, elected by their classmates, are the following: Harry McMullen, Bruce Vanderbloemen, Paul Monk, Tom Pope, Ben Cannon, Gary Pekio, Dan Sweet, Mark Brown, Frank Powell, Bo Perry, Mike Mooty, Lyle Smith, Tom Irons, Price Cameron, Frank Shepard, Bob Irons, John Thomas, Julian Prosser, Tom Ernhardt, John Morse, Bill Schmickle, and Ron Hunt. Queens WF, Raynal explained. He urges anyone interested to contact him immediately, as only a limited number may go. Rufus Hallmark is directing a YMCA-sponsored retreat to Camp Stewart near Charlotte, centering on the relation between aesthetics and religion. “Discussion about the religious overtones of painting, music, dance, poetry, and drama will be included, as well as participation in worship through different artistic media,” Hallmark said. An invitation has been extended to participants from Salem College but a reply is pending. “The retreat will aim for some continuity with the variety of worship services being occasionally held here during Wednesday chapel period,” commented Bill Rule, YMCA Spiritual Life chairman. The Methodist Student Fellowship, led by Decker Faw, will examine the relation of ethics of business and Christianity, at a Lake Junaluska Conference. The inimitable Dr. Ernie Patterson and a well-known industrialist will lead discussion on the “paradoxical ethics of today's businessman,” Faw noted. “The theme, ‘The Nonsense of Christianity in the Business World,’ suggests that there can be no Christian commitment in the business world, for to embrace such a radical message involves certain financial suicide,” Faw commented. “The sanctity of the profit motive claims the reverence of man. Whether or not the Christian claim has any future, will likely be questioned within this framework,” he added. Rule urges that all interested students contact the respective leaders at once. In general, groups will leave Saturday after lunch and return late Sunday afternoon. A maximum charge of two dollars per person is expected. (Continued from Page One) T. Kimbrough are presently studying the proposal for the store and how it might be fitted into the overall Student Store structure. As it is now being proposed and discussed, the used-book store would operate purely as a business enterprise. Instead of having students set their own prices and hope for buyers, the store would buy used books from students, add a certain percentage for overhead, and then sell them at new prices. The council also discussed the time for the election of the Wildcats Handbook editor. For a dining experience you'll long remember, rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti Best Pizza West of Italy Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — Choice Steaks La Roma Ristoranti 1540 West Boulevard at Remount Road Phone 376-2576 Charlotte, N. C. The two candidates approved by the Publications Committee to run for the editorship are Bob Bryan and Danny Boone. The council appointed member David Powell to be its observer of the Traffic Court and to bring before the court a proposal for new parking areas on campus. Botany Clothes Bostonian Shoes Haggar Slacks London Fog Coats Gold Cup Socks accessories — of luxurious colors. MOORESVILLE And when you think of CAMPUS CLOTHES — Remember Patrick Henry! It might interest some freshmen to know that Jesse is collecting these signs and is covering the walls of his room with them. He plans to save them and show them to his grandchildren. Jesse, not wishing to be considered a campus maniac, but rather more of a Dutch uncle to the freshmen, says that it is for the good of the freshmen that he is doing this. As one upperclassman put it, “You can’t just tell a bunch of freshmen that this is Davidson College and that it is theirs.You have to make them realize that they are not yet a part of the college in spirit: they're still a part in name only. They may be "the best freshman class ever," but they still haven't proved that they belong here. Taking time off from their usual pastime of killing rats and ants, the fourth floor of Watts seems to be the base for most of the threats and the anti-Sims plots. Sims feels this special attention showered upon him by the freshman class is undeserved. Although the freshman class was too sophisticated this year to resort to water fights and beanie burnings, they must be grudgingly praised for the ambition shown in the signs and for the newly developed method of rebelling against freshman regulations—passive resistance.

LSU Head Will Speak In Chapel

The President of Louisiana State University, Dr. John Hunter, '34, will speak in chapel Tuesday. Hunter, who will arrive Monday, will be guest of honor at a luncheon Tuesday in the Peter Stuart Ney room of the Union with some of his former classmates and professors. Besides his BS from Davidson, Hunter holds MA and PhD degrees from LSU. A member of the Fulbright Scholarship Committee, he is a former superintendent of the Louisiana Board of Education. Dr. Hunter has served LSU in a number of capacities since 1951. A geophysicist for Stanolind Oil and Gas Co. from 1937-1939, Hunter was an educational adviser to the Civilian Conservation Corps. He has also served with the United States Naval Reserve. Hunter, former president of the Southern Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers, holds membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Eta Sigma, and Sigma Phi Epsilon.

Get 'em CATS! Good luck on Homecoming and we hope your weekend is a fine one.

Van Heusen and Sero Shirts and all the fine complimentary $15.95

The same superlative 100% imported lamb’s wool you've enjoyed before—with the added ease and fit only full fashioning can impart. Your choice

OUR 52nd YEAR MITCHELL MACK '42

TITLE ROLE — Simon Blackford, English Richardson scholar, will be appearing in Coriolanus when the Shakespearean drama opens its three-night run on Nov. 5. With a cast of nearly 50 players, the production will coincide with Freshman Parents’ Day on Nov. 7. (Staff Photo by Thel)

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, and president of the Davidson College Board of Trustees, is presiding at the fall meeting of the Board of Trustees which began this morning. This meeting replaces the former meeting held in February. The change in meeting times will help to apportion the work of the board more evenly between the fall and spring meetings held in May. A second reason for the change is to have more trustees present for the activities of Homecoming weekend. The Board of Trustees has 51 members, of which 12 are elected from the Alumni Association. There will be four new trustees at today's meeting, three of whom were elected by the Alumni Association by a record number of ballots, according to Bill Bondurant, director of alumni affairs. The new alumni trustees are: P. Osborne Bethea, manager of Osborne Bethea and Associates of the Prudential Life Insurance Company of America, New York City; Julian J. Clark, executive vice-president of the North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte; and Dr. Charles A. Norfleet, physician of Winston Salem. Bethea, '22, is also a director of the National Association of Life Underwriters, and a past president of the General Agents and Managers Committee. He is also an elder in the Brick Presbyterian Church. Clark, '27, is a director of several Charlotte business organizations, including two Charlotte hospitals and the Morehead Scholarship Committee. He is an elder in the Myers Park Presbyterian Church. Norfleet, '33, a former member of the faculty of Bowman Gray School of Medicine, is past president of the Forsyth County Medical Association, and a member of the American Medical Association and the American Urological Association. Norfleet is also a Presbyterian Church elder. The fourth new trustee, whose election is presently pending approval, is from the Presbytery of Granville. Alumni trustees are elected for a four-year term and can be re-elected twice successively. After a period of retirement from the Board of Trustees, an alumnus trustee may be re-elected.

Harry Golden Coming For Y’s ‘Great Issues’

Harry Golden, a familiar and popular personality on the Davidson campus, will speak in chapel next Thursday as part of the YMCA Great Issues Program, on the topic, "What A Liberal Expects." Chaplain Will Terry, commenting on the topic, stated that Golden recently has given this same talk at Oberlin College in Ohio. Terry presumed that Golden would probably relate his talk to the current presidential campaign. Later during the semester another speaker will be brought to Davidson by the YMCA to speak on "What A Conservative Expects."

Golden is well known throughout the nation, especially in the South, for his editorials and books. Living in Charlotte, Golden edits The Carolina Israelite, a newspaper published six times a year. It is composed chiefly of serious and humorous articles by the editor. As an author, Golden has produced several books. Only in America, a series of short essays, is his most famous book. He has also written the bestseller For 2 Cents Plain and Enjoy, Enjoy. As a biographer, Golden wrote Carl Sandburg, and recently Mr. Kennedy and the Negroes. A well-traveled man, Golden has spoken all over the nation, and often has had more speaking engagements than he could handle. He has been on television several times, especially on the Today show and the old Tonight show with Jack Paar. He was once visited in his home by Edward R. Murrow's Person to Person, and dressed in old comfortable clothes, Golden talked to the television viewers from an office that was more cluttered than Dr. Purcell's. A crusader, Golden has fought against censorship of books and movies. In his speeches, editorials, and other writings he picks to pieces many of man's prejudices. In his previous visits to Davidson, Golden has spoken on a variety of topics. Several years ago he talked to a chapel audience about the "Industrial South." More recently, in a Brotherhood Week chapel program, he spoke on "Majorities."

Crowds of listeners have always marked his visits to the campus, whether at required chapel programs or at informal coffee hours and discussions. Golden has always been well-received by Davidson audiences, even though they often don't support his particular viewpoint. C. Shaw Smith, director of student activities, who has heard Golden speak numerous times commented, "You can’t ignore him, even if you don't agree with what he is saying. He will slip up on your blind side, and shake your mind into thinking about what he is saying." A true showman, Golden is very likable and very open. He has many friends at Davidson, and once commented that he would walk to Davidson to speak if need be. A coffee hour in the Morrison Room of the Union will conclude Golden's visit to the campus. It should be a good day for speeches, discussion, laughter, and perhaps a little thinking.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK 1800 West Morehead Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phone ED 2-2414

Square-ply by Galey and Lord—the first Fall weight Dacron polyester and cotton fabric for your casual slacks. In all the right colors and the classic neutrals.

Galey & Lord A Division of Burlington Industries NEW YORK 18, N.Y.