Che Bauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Ironing The Gridiron

Coach Bill Dole’s resignation comes at a time when Davidson is resting somewhat uncomfortably on one of the bottom rungs
of the Conference football ladder. Many are convinced that a change in the head coaching position will result in a
miraculous change in the record of our football team. We hope they are right, but we seriously doubt it. One
change — even one so significant as the position of head coach — will not make a team suddenly competitive.
Our entire football program needs overhauling.

In his recent Open End discussion of the athletic situation, Dr. W. G. McGavock pointed out three feasible changes: increase
scholarships, eliminate football scholarships, or eliminate all subsidized athletics. Coach Dole has emphasized the need for an increased number of
scholarships. Moreover, a large number of alumni support a change in this direction. But does Davidson want to spend more
money here? The College is spending more than ever before on football; she offers more football scholarships than at any
time in the past. Yet Davidson is far behind any other school in the Southern Conference in the number of
football scholarships offered. And, even with an increase in funds, would the College with her high academic standard be able
to recruit the number of athletes necessary to produce a team able to compete effectively in the Southern Conference?

We found interesting the announcement this week that Davidson had the most nominees for the Scholastic All-Southern Conference Team while
Davidson’s actual playing record left her near the conference cellar. Professor McGavock advocated the complete elimination of subsidized athletics, a
heresy at Davidson especially when pronounced on the eve of basketball season. But Dr. McGavock’s points are the result of
considerable study and thought. While it is an unpopular position, the professor’s stand nonetheless merits careful consideration.

However, we look most favorably towards the middle ground — the de-subsidization of football. We do not think an increase
in scholarships is feasible or satisfactory. Likewise, we find our present posture quite uncomfortable. We would like to see Davidson
eliminate her football scholarships over the next four years. That there would be problems — with the Southern Conference, with
scheduling, with finances — is obvious. But although complex, these problems can be overcome. The final authority lies with the
Trustees. But any change in the overall athletic policy of the College would probably originate or at least pass through
the Trustees’ Athletic Committee. Serving on the three-man body are Dr. Thomas Sparrow of Charlotte, D. R. LaFar Jr. of
Gastonia, and John I. Smith of Travelers Rest, S.C. These three gentlemen are in a position to initiate a definite
improvement in Davidson's athletic picture. We hope they do.

Of Vows And Tests

Since the action almost two months ago by the Board of Trustees on the faculty vow, students have continued to
ask us why an essentially student newspaper should be concerned with a prescribed faculty religious oath. If a student's concern
for Davidson is limited to the present, if his concern does not look into the years ahead, then we say,
“Forget about the oath.” But if a student is a part of that vast group of men who do have
an interest in the future of Davidson College, then for him to experience anxiety when viewing the oath is natural.

In a very direct fashion, the oath concerns the faculty. But in that the composition of the faculty is vital
to Davidson College and her student body, students likewise have a very definite reason to become aroused. And it is
fitting and timely that they do so. Most members of our community concur with the intentions of the oath, namely
to further Davidson's Christian commitment. But they wonder whether the oath is successful in attaining its goal. Is the vow
— or the religious test proposed as a substitute — in actuality harmful to the College and the College’s commitment?

The proposed test is honest in that it is given to all faculty members and applicants for positions on the
faculty. The present vow is given only to full professors.

Noted In Passing

Says one news item this week: “Mayor F. L. Jackson of Davidson has been advised that the Mecklenburg County Department
of Sanitation will be making an inspection... “According to Mayor Jackson, inspection in this general area will begin shortly, or
may already be in progress.” We wonder what facilities are slated for a check.

Only 10 of the 22 members of the Freshman Council had achieved the necessary grade point average to be eligible
for election to a position of Council leadership last night. And what would happen if a grade point average requirement
were established for all campus offices? Why, there would be a bigger turnover than the one in Washington after each
election back in the days before the Pendleton Act.

On November 23, Student Council set up a committee to study the role and functions of fraternities at Davidson. Student
Body President Will Jackson was named chairman of the group and was authorized to appoint the other members of the
committee. We asked Chairman Jackson early this week if he would have the committee selected by Wednesday. He replied negatively.
There are many able men who would gladly serve on the committee. They only need to be asked. And most
of them could be contacted within an hour. It is imperative that study get underway... But when, Mr. Jackson?

Associate Editors
Jim Downey
Charles Rick von Unwerth
Tim Kimrey
John Todd
Mike Harrington

Asst. Managing Editor
John Bailey

News Editor
Rufus Adair

Managing Editors
Bob Strauser

Feature Editor
Johnny Clark

Sports Editor
Bill Briggs

Assistant Sports Editor
Malcolm Lane

Circulation Manager

ment this week that Davidson had the most nominees for the Scholastic All-Southern Conference Team while Davidson’s actual playing record
left her near the conference cellar. Professor McGavock advocated the complete elimination of subsidized athletics, a heresy at Davidson especially
when pronounced on the eve of basketball season. But Dr. McGavock’s points are the result of considerable study and thought.
While it is an unpopular position, the professor’s stand nonetheless merits careful consideration.

However, we look most favorably towards the middle ground — the de-subsidization of football. We do not think an increase
in scholarships is feasible or satisfactory. Likewise, we find our present posture quite uncomfortable. We would like to see Davidson
eliminate her football scholarships over the next four years. That there would be problems — with the Southern Conference, with
scheduling, with finances — is obvious. But although complex, these problems can be overcome. The final authority lies with the
Trustees. But any change in the overall athletic policy of the College would probably originate or at least pass through
the Trustees’ Athletic Committee. Serving on the three-man body are Dr. Thomas Sparrow of Charlotte, D. R. LaFar Jr. of
Gastonia, and John I. Smith of Travelers Rest, S.C. These three gentlemen are in a position to initiate a definite
improvement in Davidson's athletic picture. We hope they do.

But in being honest such a test for prospective faculty members would present a false picture of Davidson to the
prospective faculty member. Unfortunately, the questions of the test would all too frequently be regarded as indicative of the institution
concerned with indoctrination rather than education. Davidson is not a dogmatic institution, but such would tend to be her unwarranted
reputation in future years.

Davidson is a church-related institution. But this does not mean that she must administer a religious test in order to
assure her getting desirable faculty members. We urge that a statement of standards to be met by prospective faculty members
at Davidson should be issued by the Trustees after consultation with members of the present faculty and administration. The standards
would be followed by the President and the Dean of Faculty as a guide in personnel procurement. Rather than the
prospective faculty member being confronted with a written religious test or a formal oath, the President and Dean of Faculty
would be entrusted with the responsibility of determining whether prospective faculty members measure up to prescribed standards. The manner in
which administrators assure themselves that the requirements are met in prospective professors should and would vary according to the individual
under consideration.

over than the one in Washington after each election back in the days before the Pendleton Act.

On November 23, Student Council set up a committee to study the role and functions of fraternities at Davidson. Student
Body President Will Jackson was named chairman of the group and was authorized to appoint the other members of the
committee. We asked Chairman Jackson early this week if he would have the committee selected by Wednesday. He replied negatively.
There are many able men who would gladly serve on the committee. They only need to be asked. And most
of them could be contacted within an hour. It is imperative that study get underway... But when, Mr. Jackson?

Copy Editor
Don Davis

Asst. Copy Editors
Bill Aitken
Calvin Zon

Photographers
Sam Smith
Tom Thel
Erskine Sproul

Cartoonists
Jack Lingle
Rufus Hallmark
Lou Hill

Asst. Business Mgr.
Irvine Welling

Advertising Mgr.
Bob Cameron

Contributors: Dick Spencer, Bob Howard, Ross Cornwell, Al Carson, Ed Maxwell, Steve Couch, Bob Vance, Doug Fleming, Tim Rothermel, Louis
Lesesne, David Coffey, Ted Glusman, Charles Vick, Jim Morawetz, Joe Ford, John Allen, Mike Mooty, Neville Patterson, Sam Boyte, Tom
Cook, Stanley Brown.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

A Future 100 Percent

by Lingle

WE GOT HURT THIS YEAR BY THE HUNDRED PERCENT BIDDING. WE'LL TRADE YOU JONES AND OUR FIRST DRAFT NEXT YEAR
FOR WILSON.

Soph Places Emphasis On Manor Independence

Dear Editor:

In an earlier THE DAVIDSONIAN, a letter from Arthur Ross appeared. While the letter contained some statements with which I
agree, there are some statements concerning Lingle Manor with which I disagree. Mr. Ross states that “Lingle Manor needs a
more effective leadership and an understanding of the problems confronting those who try to operate a successful social organization.” Concerning
the “understanding of the problems confronting those who try to operate a successful social organization...” I would like to say
that in the several years of the development of Lingle Manor, problems have indeed arisen. However, I believe that these
problems have been met and dealt with in such a way that the members of the Manor do have and
are gaining still an understanding of these problems. It is true that we are a young, struggling organization, but we
do have the leaders and the understanding necessary “to maintain a successful social organization.”

In this same statement by Mr. Ross which I have been considering, the phrase “successful social organization” appears. I would
like to know Mr. Ross’ definition of “successful.” If successful may be taken to mean, at least in part, successful
in the sense of planning expensive parties or activities a month and a half in advance, the Manor is truly
a failure. Lingle Manor cannot plan definite activities far in advance due to the fact that it is an organization
of voluntary participation, and this voluntary participation lies at the very heart of the organization. Due to this voluntary participation,
no member is bound to pay for or

Young's terminology. were “.... rejected by 73% of the student body.” I maintain that for most students not receiving bids
this rejection is a deep and not momentary hurt. In time this hurt heals, but it is never forgotten. I'm
not sure that a majority of the members of Lingle Manor would look with favor on the prospect of having
an advisory board of fraternity men who would be offering “brotherly assistance” and who would be representatives of that same
system which once denied its brotherhood to those whom they then would seek to aid.

A PARADOXICAL SITUATION

To me, this proposed committee would be irreconcilably paradoxical in its very nature. First, the fraternity system would deny its
brotherhood to some students but later would seek to offer some sort of brotherly advice to a group whose membership,
for the most part, would be made up of those who had been denied the brotherhood of the fraternities. These
feelings of tension and mistrust are in no stretch of the imagination good traits for an organization to have, but
I be-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

I believe these traits would appear if such a fraternity advisory board to Lingle Manor were established. This is not
to say that there can be no cooperation between the fraternity system and Lingle Manor. This cooperation is indeed necessary,
but the two organizations must remain separate from each other in their respective governmental set-ups. I must stress one fact
here. The views expressed above are mine alone, and they are not the official opinions of the Board of Directors
of Lingle Manor or of any other members. I must admit that my views are biased, but I have tried
to be as objective as I know how. I ask only toleration of those biased opinions which are present.

Hunter Hill
Davidson College

ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Mr. Ross proposed also that to raise the respect for Lingle Manor on campus, the I.F.C. might appoint "a committee
of fraternity leaders to actually join Lingle Manor and not take it over, but work with the other members..."

Dear Editor:

I just received my copy of THE DAVIDSONIAN for the week, and after reading of the debate over fraternities, I
decided to throw in an opinion. First, for those of you who do not know me, I was a fraternity
man and graduated in 1964. I, like Rick von Unwerth and Bob Young, was a member of a fraternity in
1960-61 when this question was last seriously debated. The present suggested changes to the fraternity system are even more ridiculous
than those of four years ago.

First of all, I should like to say that I, as a member of Lingle Manor, am not desirous of
having such a committee of members who would be appointed to join. Lingle Manor is an organization which, I believe,
does not wish to have anyone placed in it who might not wish to be there. Secondly, I believe that
if a committee of fraternity men were established to aid the Manor in an advisory capacity, there would be a
tension with this committee and also mistrust of it on the part of some of the members. This is a
fairly harsh statement, but I shall try to show why I think it is true. Some who have joined Lingle
Manor are those who received bids. Yet it is true that a majority of our membership consists of those who,
to use Mr. Robert's words, "did not fit into a group."

Granted, the fraternity system is not perfect. But I maintain that it is probably the best system in an environment
which would be out of the question without it. Davidson College was good to me. The fraternity was an important
part of my life there as a social outlet. A fraternity, by nature in the past, has been a mutually
selective group which organized for social purposes. One hundred percent bidding would effectively defeat this purpose and bring the end
of the fraternity system. The end of fraternities would end organized social life, intramural athletics, community projects by the fraternity,
etc. It would also break a strong tie which many alumni have with the school. One hundred percent bidding is
out of the question!

"BETTER TO REJECT"

The twenty-three percent are not outcasts, as some have said. With respect to their not having been bid, I will
say this. It is better to reject someone who would not fit into a group than to take him. It
may be a shock to be rejected, but it is easier to readjust after the shock than it is to
be ostracized for four years. This may sound like the crude law of the jungle, but it is also a
fact of society. Sophomore rush is also out of the question, for reasons which I assume have already been pointed
out, such as no freshman social life, fraternity finances, rush rules, etc. Delayed rush solves some problems. It eliminates the
hasty decision for both parties. It does allow some adjustment time for freshmen. It also creates the problem of rush
rules and their enforcement. It would probably be feasible to delay rush for six weeks and allow only those who
hold a C average after five weeks grades to be eligible.

"GOOD AND WORKABLE"

These arguments are not new. The fraternity system has evolved down through the years, much the same way that the
drinking rule has. Neither is perfect, but both are good and workable under any circumstances. I have yet to see
a workable suggestion for improvement. I do hope that from this debate the fraternities will rediscover some of their apparently
lost responsibilities. This was the net result four years ago, and there is no reason why it cannot be so
again. The fraternity system is good. It just needs a kick in the pants occasionally.

Rick Finch
Philadelphia, Pa.

Once More With Feeling
By TIM KIMREY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Thanksgiving was never more than just a day. It was always the same at home. It seemed funny for my
father to be at home at ten o'clock in the morning — he looked out of character wearing a sport-shirt
on a weekday morning. At breakfast he didn’t smell of Mennen; he and my mother sat at the table and
drank coffee after we had gone to play football. He said he would join us soon, but he never did.
We would play football for a while, but it was never a good game — nothing like the Saturday games.
And then too, it was that time of year when there was a temptation to change over to basketball. But
the court was covered with pine-needles — which none felt like sweeping away — so we couldn't get very excited
about basketball. Soon all the kids drifted back to their various sections of the neighborhood. We would arrive to find
my father raking pine-needles in the front yard. My sister, who was younger, and I would sort of involuntarily pick
up rakes and begin to languidly drag them across the slick straw. My father would smile and thank us. Soon
a self-generating energy and enthusiasm would quietly overtake us all; as the soft and shiny winter grass began to appear
beneath the brown blanket of needles. The sun filtered down through the tall, slim pine-trees — our efforts added color
to the world and we were silently proud of our thoroughness. Soon the pine-needles were all piled at the foot
of the driveway. My sister was distressed that a rake would not sweep the driveway clean of pine-needles; she went
to the carport and got a broom. My father would take a single wooden match out of his pocket and
light the pile of needles. The smoke was very thick and almost pure white; I enjoyed holding my hand in
the rising cloud and then pulling it away — the smoke would cling to my arm for several seconds. We
would leave the fire to burn itself into a tender mass of charred filaments. On the way back to the
house my father would hum a Thanksgiving hymn: "We gather together to ask the Lord’s blessing." My mother would greet
us at the door and compliment us on the way the yard looked. It was beautiful. My sister and I
would exchange smiles, and my father would pick her up around the waist and fling her up on his shoulder.
Gleeful laughter. In the kitchen, we could smell "The Bird," as my father called it. I would run to open
the oven and smell — every time the hot vapors would burn my face. On the counter would be a
dish of sweet potatoes with marshmallows on top — ready for the oven. I would scramble to get the bowl
first when we got ready for dinner, so I could have more toasted marshmallows than anyone else. My mother would
set a bowl of homemade soup on the kitchen table — the kind with string beans and chunks of roast
beef and pieces of tomatoes and cabbage, to tide us over until the Feast. "Hurry," she would say, "Your father
doesn’t want to be late to the football game." The football games were always the same. My father would smoke
his pipe and say nothing; my mother would alternately comment to my father and entertain my little sister, who would
dangle her feet and gaze at the man drinking out of the brown paper bag in front of us. I
would cheer for a while and then lose interest and start to feel the cold. It would be dark when
we arrived at home again. My sister and I would steal a glance at the front yard to be sure
it looked as neat as it had that morning. Shortly my grandparents would arrive — would interrupt the harmony of
the day. Now there would be talk of aunts and second cousins and "She was a Jackson before she married
Gerald Shoaf's brother." The Feast was always the same and always good. Stuffed, my sister and I would become bored
after mincemeat pie and finish the evening playing Parcheesi. I always ate too many marshmallows. And so it was every
year, with minor variations, due, I guess, to the fact that my sister and I grew older every year. But
somehow, Thanksgiving always seemed the same — just another day, that was supposed to be special, but whose meaning was
somehow never clear. I learned about Thanksgiving in the second grade, when Miss Holt read to us about the Pilgrims
and I made a turkey out of red construction paper. And that’s all I really knew or understood of Thanksgiving.
And then, this year, there was no football game... no pine-needles... no grandparents... no Parcheesi. Being away from home brought
me to a realization of what I think Thanksgiving really is. It is, in fact, just another day. No more
reason to give thanks here than on any other day. Before, Thanksgiving had been sort of forced upon me; now,
I had to make my own in strange surroundings. And I found it useless to list blessings, as if they
were coins in my pocket. Somehow, this had always led me to remember all the misfortunes which seemed to counterbalance
the gifts. This year I was reduced to simply giving thanks for Life, and the chance to live it in
all the excitement it offers. For a heart that beats and a mind that only occasionally comprehends, for the peace
and for the turmoil, I was grateful.
