The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Associate Editors
Jim Downey

Managing Editors
Don Davis
Charles Ramberg

Asst. Managing Editor
Bill Aitken

News Editor
Rick von Unwerth

Feature Editor
Calvin Zon

Copy Editor
Tim Kimrey

Asst. Copy Editors
Sam Smith
John Todd
Tom Thel
Mike Harrington
Erskine Sproul
John Bailey

Photographers
Jack Lingle
Rufus Adair
Rufus Hallmark
Bob Strauser
Lou Hill

Cartoonists
Bill Briggs
Malcolm Lane Brown

Sports Editor
Bob Cameron

Circulation Manager
Tom Cook

Contributors this week:
Ed Maxwell, Bob Vance, Bob Holladay, Tim Rothermel, Jamie Bryant, Frank Fleming, Steve Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor
Irvine Welling

Asst. Business Mgr.
Tucker Laxton

Advertising Mgr.
Paul Marion

Neville Patterson, John Allen, Heyward Carter.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Holiday (Continued from Page One)
For their last holiday game, the ‘Cats meet William and Mary in a Southern Conference encounter on January 2, again
at the Charlotte Coliseum. Last year, Davidson gave the Indians a 111-84 drubbing at Williamsburg. William and Mary lost four
starters from last year’s team, but two sophomores, Ben Pomeroy and Lewis Ollice, both have important positions on this year's
team. Returning to the front line is last year’s leading scorer and rebounder Martin Morris. Walter Wenk mans one guard
post, but the Indians have had trouble with filling the other guard position. Formerly a forward, 6-4 Larry Paffrath may
inherit the job.

STREAK ON LINE
Davidson will attempt to run its consecutive victory streak at Johnston Gym to 25 on Jan. 4 against Richmond. The
Spiders have beaten Virginia 72-66, and lost in two overtimes to The Citadel 76-55. Senior Tom Tenwick, 6-4, who averaged
13 points per game, is the only returning starter from a team which had a 6-16 record and lost to
Davidson by 32-49 and 95-67 margins. Sophomore standouts among those players fighting for starting positions are 6-6 Tom Green, 6-1
Johnny Moais, 6-0 Billy McCann, and 6-8 center Buster Batts.

The second trip of the ‘Cats will be January 7 with New York University their foe at Madison Square Garden.
This meeting will be the first between the two schools. Coach Lou Rossini’s returnees averaged just 27 points per game
among them last year. But forward Hay Bennett hit 31.3 percent of his shots to average 9.6 a game. Other
starters on the front line will be captain Clem Gallard (6-8) and 6-5 junior Stan McKenzie. Guards are sophomores Mal
Graham and 6-4 Bruce Kaplan. NYU will be one of the few teams to have an edge in height over
Davidson.

BOB ANDREWS
Crimson Tide Star

AMENDMENT (Continued From Page 1)
On Monday he explained that the original amendment was proposed because “it was generally felt that our proposed student body
change must actually take or at least closely approach the same form and terminology as that used in the faculty
change, in order that ours meet the requirement of ‘being in accordance with’ that faculty change.” After the amendment was
put forward, said Jackson, “the weaknesses and ambiguities of it were discussed.” As a result of this, the “new definition
of campus” amendment was proposed, because it would not leave “the areas of vagueness and definite threat to the student
body” of the first one. “It was also felt that the new proposal was still in keeping with the faculty's
stipulation of ‘being in accordance with’ its changed rule,” Jackson stated.

On Tuesday, Jackson elaborated on his reasons for feeling the first proposal to be inadequate and the new one to
be “much more reasonable and certain.” The original proposal, he said, “doesn't attempt to make alcohol in trunks legal” and
it thus “places the student body in a ‘never-never land’ where they can’t be sure what is or what is
not legal.”

POSSESSION ONLY
Jackson then noted that under the new proposal “it would not be illegal to keep alcohol in trunks,” and that
there would be “no threat to you” or danger of a violation if the liquor were properly stored. He emphasized,
however, that the new rule “is in regard only to possession” in trunks, and that actually drinking in a trunk
would still be illegal.

The rejection of the originally proposed amendment in order that the new, more clearly worded amendment might be adopted came
as the culmination of a week of intense discussion and changing of the campus drinking rules, as well as several
months of work and general discussion prior to that time. As a result of that prolonged discussion, the faculty on
Dec. 8 modified its regulation on the search of automobiles so that it stated in part that “trunks of vehicles
on campus will not be searched nor jurisdiction claimed without prior authorization for the search of a specified vehicle by
the Honor Court, the Student Council, or the Executive Committee of the Faculty.”

The Student Council on Dec. 14 proposed an amendment to the Student Body Constitution which closely coincided with the wording
of the new faculty rule. It was this amendment which was rejected by the student body today because of the
weaknesses and loopholes in its phrasing.

’Cats Stomp Keydets, 91-69
By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“Our defense was good tonight; it was the kind we ought to play,” beamed Coach Lefty Driesell after the Wildcats’
91-69 smashing of VMI Tuesday. “I was really happy with the way our boys handled Charlie Schmaus and Joe Kruszewski,
VMI’s top two threats.” Schmaus and Kruszewski together scored 33 points, but the attempt was in vain as the Davidson
fast break and effective ball handling brought the margin out in front to stay.

(Staff Photo by Thel)
WILDCAT PAUL BRIGGS BLOCKS (AND CUSHIONS) VMI'S GAUSPHOL
Looking On Are Schmaus (25) And Davidson’s Snyder

FALL TO DUKE
Frosh Drop Clemson
Davidson's Freshmen kept the game nip and tuck with Brevard Junior College ranked tenth nationally among junior colleges. Tuesday night,
the Freshmen lost to Duke for the second time this year, 87-79. This game was close all the way, and
twice it looked as though the Kittens were going to pull away to stay. In the first half, they built
up a substantial 35-26 lead on four tap-ins and seven foul shots over a period of ten minutes. Eventually, however,
Duke pulled away as the Kittens missed some crucial outside shots which refused to drop.

Davidson's wrestling team fared badly in the past week’s action, hitting the road for two matches, losing 21-11 to VMI
and tying UNC. Coach Holland remarked, “It was good in the first half, but in the second half Duke got
a lot of lay-ups. It might have been because we weren’t in shape.”The dead-eye shooting of Tom and battling to
a 16-16 draw with UNC. Then suddenly the bottom fell out, and they failed to score a field goal in
the last seven minutes of the first half to end up trailing 39-37. “That’s the way it was when we
played them at Duke,” Coach Terry Holland commented. “We ran hot and cold.” He could offer no explanation for this
lack of consistency.

Coach Charles Parker moaned, “Injuries which drastically shrink our already small squad are the main causes of our problems. Many
of our boys have either been unable to wrestle because of injuries or are just getting over them. This explains
our numerous forfeits and lost matches.” Parker also stated that the squad still is lacking a heavyweight but added that
more boys will be back after Christmas and that when all injuries are healed, the grapplers could expect some victories.

Davidson's Rodney Knowles in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA at the famous OPEN KITCHEN,
1318 W. Morehead, Charlotte, N.C. Camp (Under New Management). “We are eager to serve the students of Davidson College either
individually or in semi-private or private parties.” Highway 115 South: Turn Right just before Fox Drive-in Theatre. Open Tuesday through
Saturday from 5 p.m. on... For reservations: Charlotte 377-2701 — 596-2711.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT, W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD., CHARLOTTE. WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA AND SPAGHETTI.

THE FUN BEGINS AT HATTIE'S “just up the road....”

Senior Captain Mike Bisard is leading the team with an impressive 4-0 record. Joe Buffington and Scott Sinnock have 3-1
records. The Davidson machine began to grind out points in earnest with 14:27 left in the first half and didn’t
slacken its pace. The ‘Cats got off to a slow start and the lead changed hands three times before a
free throw by Dick Snyder and successive jump shots by Fred Hetzel, Don Davidson, and Snyder put the Red and
Black ahead.

A series of steals plus several missed Keydet shots brought Davidson an 11-point spread as 7:47 flashed on the scoreboard.
VMI began chipping at the lead and narrowed it to 7 points at 4:58 before Davidson surged forward to outscore
VMI 14-6 in the remainder of the half to lead by 47-32 when the buzzer sounded. Halftime statistics showed Hetzel’s
17 points and 13 rebounds to be leading the contest. Kruszewski and Snyder had poured in 13 and 11 points
respectively. At that time, the Davidson team had hit slightly more than half of their field goal attempts, while the
VMI squad had connected on not quite one third of theirs.

Davidson controlled the second half tip-off and, although not playing a tight game, picked up the pace with 3 minutes
gone and began to steadily pull away. The Davidson lead was 18 points at 15:17 when Lefty was shaking his
head after quick fouls had left both Paul Briggs and Barry Teague with four penalties. Driesell’s worries proved to be
unfounded, however, as Davidson led 62-39 with 13:08 left.

A behind-the-back heave on an out-of-bounds save by Davidson gave Charlie Marcon the ball for a clean layup that evoked
the loudest crowd response of the game. A Snyder jump shot seconds later at 10:35 brought the lead to 69-40,
and the audience roared as they gnawed a wildcat kill. The Davidson edge eventually reached 34 points before Driesell began
to retire the regulars. Most of the bench saw action as the Keydets struggled gamely to cut the lead. A
layup by Briggs with 0:10 showing on the clock gave Davidson its final spread of 91-69.

Pointed out Driesell after the game, “Briggs was looking good tonight, too; he's just like a starter now and might
even start in Marcon’s place against Ohio State. Not that Marcon’s not doing a good job—he’s doing fine—but those extra
two inches (Briggs is 6-5, Marcon is 6-3) will let him help a lot more against a tall man.”

Hetzel was the game's leader as he collected 26 points and 17 rebounds, but Snyder was not far behind with
his 23 points and 9 rebounds. Davidson and Teague each hit 11 points and Marcon scored 9. For the visitors,
Kruszewski collected 18 points, Schmaus 15, and Porfer 14.

Jacksonville Falls

Last Saturday evening guard Charlie Marcon poured in 15 last-half points to break a nip-and-tuck game with Jacksonville wide open.
Jacksonville was out to upset the ‘Cats and they started off well, scrapping for the lead all through the first
half. During that time, the Florida hosts out-rebounded Davidson 24-23, and only a last-minute shot by Fred Hetzel gave Davidson
a 38-37 halftime lead.

The first six minutes of the second period looked like a replay of the first half as the lead again
shifted several times before a hook by Jacksonville's Ralph Tiner tied the slate at 47-47 with 14:00 to go. The
Wildcats then began to live up to their name as they leaped out to a 75-62 edge at the 5:00
mark. From then on, the game was all Davidson's as Jacksonville, desperate to catch up, lost unity and form. Davidson's
final mark was 91-70.

Marcon and Snyder led the ‘Cats’ return from mediocrity as together they accounted for 37 of Davidson’s 53 last-half tallies.
Marcon also pulled down 9 rebounds in sparking the win. Final totals credited Snyder with 31 points, Marcon and Hetzel
with 18 each, Teague with 10, Briggs with 6, Davidson with 5, and Stone with 2.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE, 1800 West Morehead Street, CHARLOTTE, N.C. Phone ED 2-2444.

Take 5... and swing out refreshed. Coca-Cola—with its bright lively lift, big bold taste, (never too sweet)—refreshes best.

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD.
