Che Davidsonian

CHE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief
CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Davidsonian And Goliath

The Charlotte Observer deserves recognition for her journalistic achievements of the week. The foppish courtier of the “Queen City” rose to the level of Hush and Whisper magazines with her eight-column, top-of-the-page spread yesterday on the rumored resignation of Coach Bill Dole.

With rumor in hand, Observer sports writers Tom Higgins and Emil Parker set out to clear that first journalistic hurdle—verification. Responded protagonist Bill Dole: “I love to coach... I will continue to coach... and I have no intention of resigning...” The head football coach dismissed the reports as “malicious rumors.” Davidson College President D. Grier Martin stated: “There has been no action on this matter.” Wildcat Club President Dick O’Hair of Charlotte told The Observer: “The rumor is absolutely untrue. I don’t know where it came from, but there has been so much of this talk that it is just awful.” Scoreboard: Denials, 3; Verifications, 0.

The choice is clear-cut: either they must delay publication and continue their probe until they receive verification or they must dismiss the reports as “malicious rumors.” And what do our dedicated journalists do now? They take neither of the respectable alternatives; rather they insert the following: “Despite the denials, The Observer learned that Davidson will take a penetrating look at its football program at the close of the season and that changes will be made at that time.”

In essence, The Observer heard a rumor and tried to verify it. Unable to substantiate the reports, the “Foremost Newspaper of The Carolinas” was also unable to see a sensational headline slip away. The reasoning is sophistic: rumors—confirmed or unconfirmed—make good copy; a sensational report has greater value than a sensible report, reader response is more important than responsibility.

One Candle

Rumors, whispers, and all other such talk ad nauseam aside, we urge our readers—students, professors, administrators, alumni, and friends alike—to take a close look at the Davidson football scene. It is a foolish person who thinks a single change, even one as significant as a top personnel turnover, would prove to be a panacea.

Quite obviously the current situation is unsatisfactory. We recommend a careful study of the sports column in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN. Sports Editor Johnny Clark discussed each of three possible alternatives pointing out the merits and disadvantages of each.

We were delighted with the Furman victory. Nevertheless, stepping back and viewing the entire football scene, we concur with Sports Editor Clark: “I admit I’m prejudiced in favor of winning but I’m more prejudiced against losing, especially when it’s costing us $67,000 a year to do it. Football is now a sore spot in the Davidson picture as a whole—its effect is more detrimental than good.

“Nobody is enjoying the losing—the students, the alumni, the players, the coaches.

“Changes are necessary... now.”

Sanity Plea

Up for examination next week is the Davidson fraternity system and how fraternities fit into the context of Davidson College. Serious questions will be raised in chapel Monday, questions which must be met and answered with an equal amount of seriousness. The issue is shrouded in emotion; the discussion and subsequent answers must be devoid of emotion.

Stimulus

We have always placed a premium on imagination, on any device that tends to stimulate thought and to activate the student body. Our yearn for stimuli has been provided for the most part by the huge number of intelligent (?) members of the student body whose intellectual curiosity consists of little more than a desire to know “What I got on that last review.”

So, though it was certainly not a matter of national significance, we hope the Davidson fraternity man—the Davidson student body—will listen and discuss the problems quietly and objectively. An attitude approaching an open mind is imperative if the dialogue is to produce anything constructive. We must realize that it is not sufficient to say: “I like it the way it is.” Rather we must ask: “How can I better the situation?”

Presidential Sweepstakes

Tuesday delighted us. Here was a sincere attempt to increase student interest in the election while serving to inform. The response was noteworthy: despite the amount of time required to participate, approximately one-fourth of the students made their predictions. A note of gratitude for a successful venture is in order for Dr. Philip B. Secor, Brad Thompson Jr., and Bob Stone.

Princely Brown-Nosers

In a recent issue, Newsweek talks of apple-polishers and finds that they are rewarded not “in heaven but on the honor roll.” The national news magazine came to this conclusion after 994 first-term college freshmen at Pennsylvania State University were given a test comparing them with the moral principles outlined by Machiavelli in The Prince. Those who subscribed to the theories he outlined, it was found, were making better grades than their fellow, less-vicious students.

Because of its interest (and possibly some vague, tenuous connection with some University students), we believe the rest of the article might bear quoting:

“Using a test devised by Richard Christie, psychology professor at Columbia, Singer (Jerome E., psych professor at Penn State) asked his students to answer true or false to such Machiavellian-style maxims as ‘Every man can be bought and a wise man estimates his friend’s price’ and ‘People are no damned good and you can use this to your advantage.’

“The results were so staggering we couldn’t believe them,’ Singer said last week... Singer said among students of equal ability those with the higher ‘Mach’ scores were getting better grades. They believed that sitting at the front of the class and asking questions of the teacher afterward paid off. They wouldn’t hesitate... (to) plead with a teacher for a better grade.”

The article went on to lament the plight of the “rather put-upon” college professor caught in a “maelstrom of student intrigue and machination.” However, just as the sympathy of the reader has switched to these poor, innocent, unsuspecting men, the results of the Mach test given 22 professors are recorded. They all came out with scores higher than the students.

—The Cavalier Daily University of Virginia

Associate Editors Jim Downey Charles Ramberg Rick von Unwerth Tim Kimrey

Managing Editors John Todd Mike Harrington

News Editor Rufus Adair

Feature Editor Bob Strauser

Sports Editor Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor Bill Briggs

Circulation Manager Malcolm Lane

Contributors this week: John Bailey, Ron Snow, Bert Whisenant, Louis Lesesne, Frank Fleming, Harry Carr, Bobby Howard, Ed Maxwell, Walt Drake, Bill Norfleet, Jack Augustitus, Bob Vance,

Copy Editor Don Davis

Asst. Copy Editors Bill Aitken Calvin Zon

Photographers Sam Smith Tom Thel Erskine Sproul

Cartoonists Jack Lingle Rufus Hallmark Lou Hill

Asst. Business Mgr. Irvine Welling

Advertising Mgr. Bob Cameron Paul Maron, David Coffey, Mike Bates, M. L. Cannon, Joe Ford, Tim Rothermel, Ted Glunman, Lindsay Davis, Sam Boyte, Mike Mooty, Tucker Laxton, Palmer Kirkpatrick, Steve Brown, Neville Patterson and Tom Cook.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Action and Reaction... by Lingle

FROM THE BACK OF THE BUS

‘Critical Election’ Leaves GOP Future Looking Dim

This is the morning after, By CHARLES RAMBERG Davidsonian Associate Editor... the morning after the overwhelming repudiation of Goldwaterism. We should be elated at the outcome, confident that the next four years will bring the blossoming of the Great Society. Instead, we are depressed at the result, uncertain of the direction national politics will follow with Lyndon Johnson president in his own right.

First, we are depressed by the electoral vote count. Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, Louisiana and South Carolina brought the issue to the Republicans. If Johnson and Hubert Humphrey had not pushed passage of the Civil Rights bill, it is likely that Barry would have carried only one state, his native Arizona. When will the South be able to tear itself from its futile fixation on the civil rights issue? We despair of finding an answer.

Second, we fear for the future of responsible Republicanism. Only a fool will deny that Americans have decisively rejected Goldwaterism. The popular vote returns clearly indicate that more than 60 per cent of the electorate will feel safer if Barry stays in Phoenix and limits his tinkering to ham radios. The victories of Michigan Gov. Romney and New York Congressman Lindsay in the face of Johnson avalanches further reinforce the conclusion that the voters rejected Goldwaterism in particular and not just Republicanism in general.

The problem is that the Johnson landslide did bury many moderate Republicans who would have been expected to lead the G.O.P. back to sanity. To make matters worse, some southern Republican conservatives won election. It is this apparent realignment—the replacement of moderate Republicans by Democrats and the replacement of reactionary Democrats by Republicans—that seems likely to make 1964 what V. O. Key calls a “critical election.” A “critical election” occurs when a new pattern of issues cuts across the established conditions that make up the two major parties; when this happens, a major segment of each party changes sides, producing a new orientation for both parties.

A real party realignment would leave us with a feeble Republican party of conservatives and a Democratic party able to legislate almost at will. This has not happened yet, but it is clearly possible if the Goldwaterites refuse to surrender the party back to the moderates. The reins of power won’t be given up without a struggle. The bitterness that a clear ideological division of parties would generate should be obvious. It is bitterness and strife that a progressive nation can ill afford. We wish the best to the remaining moderate Republicans as they go to work to regain control of their party.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Chapel Political Speakers Arouse Sharp Reactions

Dear Editor:

As he began his speech to the Davidson student body Monday he apologized for his past oratorical record of dwelling too long on monetary and fiscal matters. We duly accepted his apology, little realizing that he considered it a license to go ahead and further astound us with his ability to quote figures of astronomical proportions. Yes, he warned us that he had a tendency to talk about money a little too much and how right he was. According to my records, Congressman Charles R. Jonas mentioned money in...Terms of measurable lumps of it a total of 49 times. To record how many times he mentioned money in more general terms raises computational problems similar to those presented in figuring out the flaps of a fly's wings in a similar 30-minute period. When the colossal sums mentioned are totaled, they come to a completely overwhelming $2,757,022,128,101.05. In all due respect for Congressman Jonas, I must admit that his fiscal verbosity was not without purpose. It was designed to scare hell out of us, as it would any mortal. From mill worker to plant manager, everyone must be frightened just to be in the same room with numbers that large. What a democratic, all-purpose speech. The desired response from the audience is a total surrender of votes to the possessor of such knowledge, to turn our own David loose to slay the Goliath budget. The need for the speaker to mention specifics beyond the tens digit is eliminated. Specifics in numbers are easy to deal with. Decimals are small enough for even the slightest candidate to toss around freely. Issues present quite a different problem, a problem obviously too large for the Honorable Mr. Jonas to tackle. Great though my resistance may be, I'll have to admit that the speech got through to me. Mr. Jonas spoke at the rate of $919,007,342,700.35 per minute. Would you kindly stop to think of the interest involved here? Why Mr. Jonas’ interest must lie nowhere else. America beware! The day a congressman speaks at the rate of one trillion dollars per minute, the end of the world, or at least of our democracy, can't be far behind.

Gary Martin
Davidson College

Beasley

Dear Editor:

Our speaker in Tuesday’s chapel accurately characterized his address as a diatribe, to wit, a prolonged, ranting speech. It was a rather incredible display for a professor of political philosophy and science to advocate the discarding of his own field in considering this year’s elections. After deploring a campaign of meaningless slogans and empty phrases in favor of Liberty, Equality, Freedom, etc., he advanced the amazing theory that there were no real issues under discussion. He pointed out correctly that this year there was perhaps more disagreement on the issues of what is “right” for the country. Then, instead of advocating a national examination of the issues and candidates, he proposed that since there was so much basic discord on the fundamental issues that the issues not be considered at all! To him, the issues were so nebulous the choice between candidates should be made on some other basis. We were then told that the best method of deciding between candidates this year was on their personalities, revealed to us by their T.V. appearances. By his criterion, Lorne Green, hero of Bonanza, should be our next President, since his show currently holds first place in the Nielson ratings. To the professor's credit, it is logical to choose between persons with whom one is well-acquainted on the basis of their personalities, but it seems manifestly absurd to choose on the basis of personality persons only known to us through their public relations propaganda. Having previously lamented the generalities and the abstractions of the campaign, the speaker beseeched us to turn to the well-known concreteness of existentialism and subjectivism. In a similarly clearly logical transition, he deprecated the moral absolutism of one candidate, then finally suggested we turn to God, the moral absolute, in considering the candidates. Despite this astonishing and incredible polemic, the last laugh, as it were, was his. In conclusion, he asked for a president who would be “slippery” and “pragmatic.” He got the epitome of both attributes on Election Day.

Jim Beasley
Davidson College

Allan

Dear Editor:

I was impressed by the ideas presented by your Sports Editor in the “Cat Tales” column this past week. Let's face it, Davidson today is not in a position to be a winner in Conference football, as past seasons have shown. Perhaps an increase in subsidies is the answer to this problem; however, I personally feel that the better solution is the one outlined roughly last week. We must consider that Davidson's joining a desubsidized conference would hardly mean that football would be de-emphasized. But it could mean the more productive use of athletic funds in Davidson’s all-around athletic program through an increase in the number of scholarships in other areas. As last week’s Furman win clearly shows, the Wildcats have the ability to play good ball when equally matched. This end, it seems to me, can be most practically achieved through the gradual curtailment of the subsidized football plan which Mr. Clark proposed, while scheduling teams such as Washington and Lee and Sewanee for future seasons. In this way, of course, current scholarship holders would not be affected. A realistic review of the present football situation is obviously necessary; I hope the ideas outlined last week will receive the attention of the Athletic Department.

Hobs Allan
Davidson College

There are indications that the President will do with his mandate. The landslide has a positive aspect of approval of Johnson, but there is uncertainty as to where he will lead us. During the election, the Republicans were cast in the role of challengers. To them went the responsibility to raise significant issues, to stimulate debate on the Great Society that the President would have us grope toward. The Republicans let us down. They wasted our time, raising spurious issues such as softness of communism, morality in government, and whether we should sell the T.V.A. The public ignored these so-called issues for the most part, resulting in a campaign devoid of great issues. Certainly, the in-power Democrats had no reason to tell us more about the Great Society. Now the time when all solutions are simply Being-against-Goldwater, as T.R.B. expresses it, is past. We want to see the Johnson blueprint for the Great Society to find out whether it will really call for a progressive assault on national deficiencies in education, employment, housing, human rights, medical care, and many other areas. We would like to trust the President’s liberalism newly-found as a national leader. We would rather have him commit himself to a progressive program. With the country safe for the time being, it is time to turn our attention to pressing campus problems. One of the more serious is the chronic lack of soap in the gymnasium showers. After a few sweaty games of handball, it is more than mildly irritating to find the soap dispensers spewing nothing but air. A solution is possible if the gentlemen who man the equipment cage will occasionally rise from their accustomed sedentary position and walk the few steps needed to reach the soap spigots and check to see if any soap is left.

Davidson Drama Season Opens With ‘Coriolanus’

By PETE MYERS
Davidsonian Drama Critic

With election year and Shakespeare’s four-hundredth birthday falling on the same year, the Drama Department's production of Shakespeare’s Coriolanus fits right in with the spirit of things. This play, starring Simon Blackford in the title role, is set in the Roman Republic, highly-regarded citizens. Mr. Barber cut this five-act play into a three-act play that is just as brilliant as the original, if not for the modern audience, more brilliant by getting the point across in much less time. Simon Blackford (Coriolanus) does a good job in his long and demanding role. Throughout it all, though, he is a little weak, and one wishes for a little taller figure, a heavier voice, more life, and more assuredness. Simon’s best sections are those in which he is supposed to be sullen or sad. But as the play progresses one sees less and less of that spark, that drive that Coriolanus is supposed to have all the way through the play. Knowledge of lines might be the corrective to that defect. Supporting him in the play are Coriolanus’ mother, Volumnia—played by Mrs. Constance Welsh; Coriolanus’ General in the campaigns, Cominius, played by Ed Dwelle; and his best friend in the Senate of Rome, Menenius, Dr. Thomas Clarke. Of these three supports, Mrs. Welsh did by far the best job. Not only did she have command of her lines and understood them as lines instead of poetry entirely, she had the life that was so urgently needed by many of the rest of the actors on stage. She was, perhaps, the character that kept the play going in its weakest moments. Ed Dwelle did a good job with his role, a role that is not as interesting as either of the other two supports. Dr. Clarke had the character role in the play. As a fairly senile Senator, (but nevertheless smart), Dr. Clarke did an acceptable portrayal. But the part is so filled with humor, he did not get the most out of it. Next should be mentioned the roles of the enemy general, Aufidius (Smith McKeithen), and the two rabble-rousing Tribunes, Sicinius and Brutus—played by Michael Light and C. Dupre Jones, respectively. Smith was a commanding, proud, and gruff enough general at the beginning, but as soon as he started forgetting his lines, his character dropped immensely. The two Tribunes were all right, but they could hardly be the rabble-rousers they were supposed to have been. Michael Light, the main one of the two, spoke his lines quite well, but his actions were entirely too passive to suit the great lines. A highlight in the play was the crowd. They reacted; they fought; they screamed; and they cowered. For such a crowd to be on stage at one time, they did tremendously well, even with the few weak parts among them. Mr. Barber is to be commended on his excellent direction of such masses of people so that the audience really believed that they were a much larger group. Technically, the play was a flop. Even with the wonderful innovation of the set using the whole stage without flats, the mere set-up of the stage itself offered some beautiful drawbacks to technical superbity. The exits and entrances of more than three people were terrible, due to the lack of wings and large exits. Everyone went crowding toward the exit and were blocked for several minutes by lack of space. The set itself, though, was magnificent, at times it seemed in the way of free movement. A weak opening, followed by a weak act, a strong second act, and a weak third act with a very poor ending, produced a play that was interesting only for the merits of the play itself and the few good actors that have been mentioned. Perhaps the mediocrity of the production could be blamed on too many people to manipulate with too few facilities.