PAGE FOUR

Special Forces Unit Holds Counter-Guerilla Exercise

A helicopter ride, a simulated ambush, and extensive publicity—that's what is in store for Special Forces members this weekend when
they participate in their third counter-guerilla exercise of the year.

The maneuver will begin at 1430 hours (2:30 p.m.) Saturday afternoon, when a helicopter lifts the Special Forces participants from
the soccer field to the operations area. A truck will also transport MS I's and II's to the scene of
the exercise, about fifteen miles southwest of Davidson, where they will play the part of a friendly "Vietnamese" village.

According to Tarby Bryant, commander of the Davidson Special Forces Unit, the operation will receive television coverage and attention from
both Charlotte newspapers. The situation will be that of an area 100 miles behind Vietnam lines. The Special Forces unit
will try to locate and train friendly "Vietnamese" guerrillas (MS III's) and then with their aid capture an enemy Viet
Cong supply dump. Before seizing this objective, the Special Forces and the "Vietnamese" will attempt to ambush an enemy ammunition
truck necessary for the success of the mission since it will contain C-rations and ammunition for M-1 rifles and machine
guns. Once they capture the truck, the guerrillas will proceed to the objective, which will be guarded by the MS
IV's and some MS II's. If the supply dump is captured, then both the Special Forces unit (the MS III's)
and the enemy "Vietnamese" (MS IV's and II's) will remain subject to attack throughout the night and will have to
keep guards posted at all times.

Sunday morning, there will be a chapel service in the field, then breakfast consisting of C-rations. In addition to Bryant,
the officers of the Davidson College Special Forces Unit include Sam Grimes, Executive Officer; Fred Schoen, S-1; Steve Ramsburgh, S-2;
Mike Thurman, S-3; and Chip Derrick, S-4. For the operation this weekend, Ramsburgh will be the detachment leader of the
Special Forces group, with Steve Davidson and Lanier Burns acting as assistant detachment leaders. Bryant will control the enemy Viet
Cong ammunition truck and supply dump, while Greg Govan will be in charge of the objective.

More weapons will be used in this weekend’s maneuver than in any previous operation, and will include three machine guns,
an artillery simulator, and trip flares. Bryant said that tactics used in capturing the objective most likely will be partially
amphibious, since boats are available for use in the operation.

The location of the weekend maneuver is the Army Reserve area approximately fifteen miles southwest of Davidson, near the Catawba
River. Bryant described this area as having "rough terrain, with briars and gullies, but no rice paddies as in Vietnam."
It is a good training area, he said, since the vegetation is thick, in fact thicker than that at Fort
Bragg.

Commenting on the forthcoming maneuver, Bryant said that it is "much larger than any the Special Forces unit has ever
engaged in, in terms of publicity, ammunition and weapons, and number of participants (around 40). The helicopter has also brought
a lot of people into the operation." Bryant added that there are benefits to participating in exercises of this sort,
"since men engaged in Special Forces activities will be better prepared for summer camp at Fort Bragg than any other
cadets, because they will have had the classes and field experience."

Lt. Col. Paul R. Wheaton described the exercise as "the highlight of the counter-guerilla program for this year," and added,
"we expect to receive excellent training and a wide variety of special warfare and counter-guerrilla techniques."

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Seniors Get Grants For Graduate Studies

Phil Lewis and John Hall, Davidson seniors, who were recently designated Woodrow Wilson Fellows, have now received Danforth Graduate Fellowships
for advanced study leading to the PhD degree. Hall, a German major from Damascus, Va., and Lewis, a French major
from Kingsport, Tenn., will receive tuition and living expenses for four years of preparation leading to a career in college
teaching. More than 1,000 college seniors throughout the United States competed for the 100 Fellowships awarded this year. Davidson usually
has only one winner.

The Fellowships are intended to encourage outstanding college graduates who have selected college teaching as a career and to help
meet the critical national need for competent college instructors. Hall is also the recipient of a Fulbright-Hays Scholarship, it was
announced this week by the Department of State in Washington.

Artist’s Visit Highlights '64 Fine Arts Festival

BY GEORGE FAIN

Gordon Mahy, painter and Davidson graduate of 1954, appeared on campus April 13 and 14, as part of the 17th
Annual Fine Arts Festival to lecture on the arts and judge student artwork.

Successful Shoe Salesman To Address Business Club

Bartlette B. Walker, American Success Story Award recipient-elect, will speak to an open meeting of the Business Economics Association Tuesday
at 7:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union. Bill Canty, speaking for the Association, said, "Mr. Walker
will appeal even to those who are not business majors. He was well received when he was here last year.
After I heard him I wanted to run out and buy stock in his company."

Walker, an alumnus of Davidson, currently heads B. B. Walker Shoe Company. Founded in 1947 with $175 capital, this firm
today grosses over $9 million annually. He started out selling shoes to far-flung country stores in his spare time. His
first year’s sales were $1,756. When the Free Enterprise Awards Association named him as one of their 10 recipients of
the American Success Story Awards for 1964, they cited him as "an example of success possible despite competition." He was
also cited for his contributions to making workers’ shoes more comfortable as well as safe.

At the sixth grade level, Walker began door-to-door selling. This was necessitated by the death of his father. Walker worked
his way through Davidson and earned a BS degree. In World War II he served as a Captain in the
79th Infantry Division. In this capacity, he received the Silver Star, Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, and oak leaf cluster.
His unit was stationed in France.

In 1956 Walker began to manufacture his own shoes for work and sport. Braving the stiff competition of both the
domestic shoe trade and foreign imports, his company grew steadily. Starting with a 3,200 square-foot plant and a few workers,
Walker has expanded his operation to a 175,000 square-foot operation employing over 700 shoecrafters. In addition to these employees, he
has a truck fleet capable of rapid delivery anywhere in the United States. He utilizes 46 full-time salesmen plus six
sales managers. The salesmen and managers plus the wholesale outlets service 16,500 stores in all 50 states and Puerto Rico.

Walker has always encouraged employees to invest in the company, and today they own over fifty percent of the capital
stock. In his 16 years of operation, Walker's employees are in profit-sharing programs and other benefit programs.

Walker, a resident of Asheboro, is a director of the First National Bank of Asheboro, a member of the Board
of Directors of the National Shoe Manufacturers Association, and the Davidson College Board of Visitors. In addition, he is president
of both Seagrove Textile Co. and Reklaw Investment Corp.

Girls Choir Joins Male Chorus Here

The Davidson Male Chorus will travel by bus to Spartanburg tomorrow to participate in Converse’s Baroque Musical Festival. Then on...Sunday,
the Converse College Choir will come to Davidson to join the Male Chorus in a musical vespers program. Richard Rivers,
director of the Converse Choir, will direct the first selection, Christ Lag in Todesbanden (Christ Lay in the Bonds of
Death), a cantata by Bach. The second selection, Let Thy Hand Be Strengthened, a coronation anthem by Handel, will be
directed by Donald Plott of Davidson. Wilmer Welsh will accompany on the organ.

Mahy, whose paintings are on display in the lobby of the Fine Arts Building during the month of April, spoke
at 12:00 noon on Monday on "Asiatic Art" and conducted an informal criticism of work by Davidson students that afternoon.
On Tuesday evening, he spoke on "The Search for Style." Mahy is a native of Kentucky. A member of Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, he won the North Carolina Federation of Women’s Clubs Painting Scholarship his senior year
and studied art in Guadalajara, Mexico. He received his MA degree in English Literature at Washington University, St. Louis, and
his MFA degree in Painting at Columbia University in 1960.

The next scheduled Fine Arts Festival event is the Wind Ensemble concert on April 23. Davidson Award Winners for the
1964 Fine Arts Festival in the areas of drawing, painting, and printmaking were selected by Mahy. Taking top awards were
Jim Hollandsworth, painting; Jim Bulla, watercolor; Chum Roberts, color study; Paul Van Der Berg, drawing; and Bob Graham, printmaking. Johnny
Wright received second place in painting; Pete Cassell and Dupre Jones received second and third place, respectively, in watercolor, while
Danny King took second place in color study. Second through fifth place in drawing went, respectively, to Algie Guess, Dick
Whitfield, Erskine Sproul, and Woody Dunenhower. Jim Tanner and Mrs. D. G. Martin, respectively, received second and third place in
printmaking. Sketchbook mentions went to Hoyt Nance, Peter Cassell, Jim Bulla, Dupre Jones, Danny King, Erskine Sproul, and Paul Van
Den Berg.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS at THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

The New Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

JOBS ABROAD STUDENTS & TEACHERS

FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1964

Von Unwerth Elected New IFC President
BY BILL AITKEN

Rick von Unwerth, rising senior from Augusta, Ga., was elected new Interfraternity Council president for this year at the IFC
meeting Monday night. Elected secretary of the 1964-65 council was Fred Sackett, a rising senior from Keystone, W. Va.

"JUST A LITTLE DAB’LL DO YA...!" Gordon Mahy, '54, discusses works at Fine Arts Festival this week. (Staff Photo by
Thel)

Von Unwerth is a member of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity and served as his fraternity's representative this past year. Sackett,
a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, is serving his first term of office on the IFC. In the absence
of the president, the secretary will head the council. Rising senior Jim Overton from Salisbury will serve as IFC treasurer.
Overton, a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, served on the council last year. Looking to the new year, von Unwerth
said, "I anticipate a very active council due to the exceptional, effective men who represent the fraternities this year." He
went further to state several improvements which he hopes to effect on this year's council. In the past, the IFC
has served the college almost solely as a social committee, he indicated. This year, the IFC intends to become active
on several of the Student Council committees covering the various phases of campus life, thus spreading its influence to other
portions of the campus. Following the election of officers Monday, the council voted unanimously to adopt the proposed amendments to
the constitution and by-laws. Copies of these amendments are now being distributed to the fraternities. The amendments to the constitution
are for the purpose of clarification. These changes in the by-laws will give the IFC original jurisdiction, if so desired,
in all matters concerning violations of Greek Week and provide that the IFC shall assume all jurisdiction arising from matters
concerning Rush Week. In conjunction with the Dean’s Office, the IFC hopes to participate in an effort to broaden its
responsibilities in the area of relationships between fraternity men and the college. This is at present centered around Rush and
Greek Week activities.

USAF F-105, unleashing air-to-ground rockets at simulated enemy target. Supersonic jet...helping to keep America’s guard up. Or you may be
in an Air Force laboratory, working to solve an intricate scientific or technological problem. Right now, graduation seems way off
in the wild blue yonder. But it's not too early to start planning. In the future, you'll look back on
decisions you make today with satisfaction or regret. What can an Air Force career mean to you in tangible gain?
The opportunity to take on executive responsibilities you might otherwise wait years to attain. And a head-start into one of
a wide range of possible careers in the Doing jobs like these, you can hold your head high. In addition
to being essential to your country, they're the beginnings of a profession of dignity and purpose. For more information, see
the Professor of Air Science.

The grant is for graduate study in German literature at the University of Bonn in Germany. The Fulbright Hays Program
seeks to increase mutual understanding through international educational and cultural exchange. It was instituted through an Act of Congress in
1963.

HALL LEWIS

1963

Marcus Bloch, President
Eastern Magical Society
P. O. Box 118
New York 9, N. Y.

If there is no AFROTC unit on your campus, contact your nearest Air Force recruiter.
