FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

LOOKING AHEAD

The Student Council just confirms what was indicated by the self-evaluation committee last spring—our athletic facilities are hurting. The committee gave its report last spring, pointing out specific inadequacies. The administration has had several months to study the committee’s report, but little has been done toward alleviating the deficiencies. The need is obvious. On weekends the basketball courts are overcrowded, and it is usually necessary to wait to play. During the week, IM games have to be worked in around varsity and freshman practices, and there is almost no opportunity for someone to play who isn’t on a team. The handball courts are even more crowded, not accommodating more than 12 players at one time. Hard surface tennis courts still aren’t here, so there is no tennis playing during the mild weather of the winter months. Basketball and handball are the only sports available to students in the winter, and the facilities for these sports are sadly lacking. Tennis is a possibility for another winter sport, yet winter facilities for this sport are non-existent. Athletic Director Tom Scott points out that there is plenty of room at the rear of the gymnasium to build an addition containing a double basketball court, three more handball courts, and a new weight room. Davidson may be tops academically, but it won't be the superior school it aspires to be until its athletic facilities at least meet adequately the needs of students. Maybe the administration is looking ahead, though. If the admissions policy continues in the same direction it has been going for the last couple of years, maybe there won’t be any need for an athletic plant—just more libraries.

SURPRISE

The freshman-sophomore basketball game last night was a source of amazement to just about everyone—everybody expected the much-publicized and highly subsidized war baby team to cream the sophs. But it wasn’t that way. Their effort was really fantastic. The frosh had about five inches per man in height advantage and a big edge in individual talent, but the sophomores stuck with them to the end. Tucker Laxton was perhaps the biggest surprise and the most outstanding performer on the court. He was the game’s top scorer with 25 tallies and was everywhere on defense, doing an amazing rebounding job against the towering yearlings.

By PALMER KIRKPATRICK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Sigma Nu’s pulled off the surprise of the week in IMAC flickerball by taking the Phi Delts in a tight defensive battle, 6-0. But those who saw this game will agree that this was no mere accident. The Nu boss and tailback, Rick Phitzner, together with a spirited team, pulled together a set of machine-like plays that stunned their opponent. The first few minutes of the game saw the ball exchanged many times, neither team being able to pressure the other. But about the fourth time the Delts had possession of the ball, they drove within the 18-yard marker before being stopped by the Nu defense. Play was nearly even until John Mason, a key figure in the Nu lineup, intercepted a Delt pass. Then began a series of passes to Bill Barnette and Mason that put the Nus on the Delts’ 9-yard line. Ricky Phitzner then sprinted around the right end for the sole score of the game. A deep drive into Sigma Nu territory in the last minute of play...

App Booters Score Late To Edge Davidson 3-2

By NEVILLE PATTERSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Exhaustion may have been a factor in the Wildcat soccer team’s 3-2 loss to Appalachian Wednesday. “Yeah, we should have won. We have better scoring and a better defense, but on that particular day, they were better than we were,” elaborated Coach Fogleman. “The team played well against Appalachian. In fact, I would say that we dominated the game. We made a couple of mistakes in the third quarter, and they took advantage of them.” The game was played under terrible conditions. Heavy rains had turned the field at Boone into a virtual sea of mud. Consequently, both teams had trouble moving the ball. Davidson scored first on a penalty shot by Jan Brakel late in the first quarter. The Wildcats continued to control the ball and scored again in the second quarter when Lewis Foss sliced the ball in from left wing. Appalachian came roaring back in the third quarter and scored three quick goals. The first of these was on a power play up the middle, with a halfback making the scoring kick. Their second and third goals came in the same way, but because of heavy traffic in front of the net, their halfback didn’t have a clear kick and was forced to push the ball in. Neither team seriously threatened in the fourth quarter, although Davidson controlled the ball most of the time. Davidson played without their number one and number two goalies, which certainly made a dent in the defense. Despite the loss, Fogleman was quite impressed with several individual performances. “George Nzongola and George Brown played well at the halfback positions. Gus Brown and Will Edmunds played extremely good defense as fullbacks.” Forward Lee Fanning talked briefly of the loss and then of the upcoming game with Oglethorpe. “We didn't hustle enough. They had two fast forwards who outran us and used our mistakes to score. It'll be different, though, when we go out there Saturday.” The Wildcats play their first home game Saturday against Oglethorpe University at 2:30 on the local field. The Oglethorpe game last year was won by the ‘Cats 7-2. “Last year the Oglethorpe game was very rough," commented soccer Coach Harry Fogleman. “They use rough tactics; they try to butcher you.” Sophomore halfback George Brown is optimistic. “This being our first home game, we should have a large crowd. This ought to help us a lot.” But he adds, “We won't be overconfident. That hurt us some Wednesday. It won't happen again.”

UNKNOWN PLAYER SCORES TD in Last Week’s IMAC Play

Richardson Field has witnessed many a spastic battle and many misfit combatants in its history, but never before has it experienced anything like the war between the classes of ‘67 and ‘68 at the Freshman-Sophomore Field Day yesterday afternoon. In the 100-yard dash, freshman Tommy Caldwell placed first, followed by sophomores Jim Phipps and Rodney Knowles. Freshman Bob Pryor, considered by many as a top contender because of his high school dash record, pulled a muscle about halfway through...Almost changed the course of the game. But the one completed pass that would have changed the score was caught beyond the end zone. The Nus took possession on their 9-yard line and ran out the clock. Pass interceptions proved to be the crucial factor in one of the more tense games of the week in which the Betas pushed by the SAE’s 18-13. With only minutes left in the game and the SAE’s ahead 13-12, the Betas intercepted a pass and then took advantage of the break by scoring in the last 13 seconds of play. 

The SAE’s had a first down. But the sages had better things in store for the Betas. The SAE’s ran a pass play, which the Betas promptly intercepted, thus setting up the possibility for a winning TD. Jack Sherrill, Beta tailback, freed himself of his rushers and pumped one to Mac Otts in the end zone in the last 13 seconds of the game to make the final score 18-13. 

Another close defensive battle was won by the Sigma Chis 20-13. The duel was characterized by lucky breaks and key interceptions by both teams. Despite the minor handicap of only playing with six men for the first few minutes, the Independents took the lead with an early TD and extra point to make the score 7-0. Only toward the end of the half were the Chis able to connect a Ronny Ayers pass for a tally that put the halftime score at 7-7. 

But the second half proved to be a different story. A pass from Basil Hicks to Rich Mildner brought confidence back to the Chis to make the score 13-7. Later in the game, Bob Rhudy broke loose on a long run which tied up the game with only a few minutes to go. The last touchdown, a “freak” in the words of Ronny Ayers, was made on a play from the Indys’ 9-yard line. A Geordie Mueller-to-James-to-Ayers scramble on what should have been a “button hook pass” gave the Sigma Chis their winning touchdown.

War Babies Top Sophs In ‘Battle of Brains’
By PRESTON ST. CLAIR
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The race. The 120-yard low hurdles were dominated by the freshmen. Rich Mildner won this race, and another freshman, Doug Rhymes, placed third. Louis Hill took second place for the sophomores. The 880-yard run was another story. Here sophs Renn Gruber and George Brown took the first two places, with frosh Paul Monk trailing in third. The freshman team composed of Charlie Gorham, Martin Brackett, Tommy Caldwell, and Rich Mildner, took the 440 relay combat.

The egg toss was decided in a rather dictatorial manner. It was charged that they were playing with a hard-boiled egg, but a complete investigation was never conducted. Timmons’ egg never did break.

Then, onto the field came many of the boys that had been kept out of other events because of midriff bulge, head-to-toe flab, and other exciting physical characteristics. Fat took over. They all came with the intention of winning the tug-o-war and the five points. After all, who could drag 1500 pounds of dead weight over the chalk line? After an extremely short effort, the freshmen did it. 1500 pounds of straining muscle, well-insulated, pulled an approximately equal amount of muscle and flab across the line, and the frosh left the field leading in total points, 24-20.

The biggest sophomore surprise for running events was Tucker Laxton. Tucker was the leading rebounder of the game and the high scorer, with 25 points. He seemed to be all over the court and was particularly in comment on the game.

The volleyball contest had to go the full three games before it was decided. In the first game, the freshmen managed to come up from a 9-0 deficit to win 15-11. It wasn’t really the fault of the freshmen; the sophomores just managed to completely outclass them. Teammates stared at each other as the ball went between them; they fought each other for the ball and ran into each other. Referees Mike Carroll and Neville Patterson went almost unnoticed as they called foul after foul.

With the second game came new referees and new results. The freshmen finally overcame any semblance of coordination they had and really screwed things up. With referees Ted Glusman and George Ludwig calling a tight game, the frosh went down to defeat, 15-13 and then 15-8, and the total Field Day score became Sophs 20, Frosh 17.

Following the volleyball game came the rather ridiculous egg toss. In this new entry into the Davidson sporting world, two teammates attempt to see how far apart they can get without breaking the egg they toss between them. The team to get the farthest apart before their egg breaks wins the event and, in this case, two points for their class. Freshmen Nibs Stroupe and Johnny Wessell were awarded this victory after many an egg had broken on the field of mortal combat.

It was anybody’s ball game until the Olds F-85 came on the field. And suddenly, from coast to coast, there was only one car for the campus crowd. What makes the Olds F-85 such a performer? Well, start with new Cutlass V-8 power, 315 horses of it! (Cheers!) New styling! Loaded with class! (Cheers!) Glamorous fun-loving interiors! (Cheers!) And much, much more besides! (Cheers! Cheers! Cheers!) Find out what all the cheering’s about. Rally on down to your Oldsmobile Quality Dealer's athletic edition to see the new Olds F-85, “The Rocket Action Car for '65!”