Y ANNOUNCES BOOK OF THE SEMESTER (See Page Three)

VOL. LIV

FACULTY AND ADMINISTRATION

| Johnson | Goldwater |
| Dem | Rep | Ind | Dem | Rep | Ind |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Natural Sciences | 7 | - | 2 | 2 | 1 | - |
| Humanities | 20 | 3 | 2 | 2 | - | - |
| History and the Social Sciences | 14 | 1 | 1 | 1 | - | - |
| Administration | 13 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 1 | - |
| TOTALS | 34 | 6 | 7 | 7 | 2 | 0 |

West Virginia Senator Continues Great Issues

Jennings Randolph, Democratic senator from West Virginia, will speak in an assembly Wednesday as part of the YMCA’s Great Issues Series, “Election of 1964.” Assistant floor leader for the Johnson anti-poverty bill, Randolph will speak on current federal programs that seek to aid localities. Because of the assembly Wednesday, there will be no chapel Tuesday.

Randolph holds his undergraduate degree from Salem College as well as honorary doctorate degrees from Davis and Elkins College (law), Southeastern University (letters), Salem College (aeronautical science), and West Virginia State College (humanities). He is a former instructor of effective speaking and dean of the College of Business Financial Administration at Southeastern University.

As editor of The Message, Salem, W. Va., Randolph presided over the West Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association, 1922-23. Later he taught journalism and public speaking at Davis and Elkins College. Randolph served as assistant to the president and director of public relations of Capital Airlines, 1947-58. With many national magazine articles to his credit, Randolph has written two books, "Going to Make a Speech?" and "Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen."

Currently, he is serving as a trustee of Salem College, a member of the Citizens’ Crime Commission of Metropolitan Washington, and a member and former vice-president of the National Aeronautic Association. For his work in the National Federation of Blind and Blinded Veterans Association, he twice received the ‘Distinguished Service Award’ from the President's Committee.

Other speakers in the current series tentatively include: Harry Golden, editor of The Carolina Israelite; Charles Jonas, congressman from North Carolina's Eighth District; Henry Hall Wilson, congressional liaison officer for President Johnson; Arthur Link, historian; South Carolina Republican Sen. Strom Thurmond; North Carolina Gov. Terry Sanford; James McGregor Burns, speech writer for former Pres. Kennedy and biographer for the Kennedy Memorial Library; and Dr. Marshall Shulman, director of the Russian Research Center at Harvard and an adviser to the past three presidents.

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1964

FRESHMEN SQUEEZE BY SOPHOMORES (See Page Four)

NUMBER FOUR

Faculty Favors Johnson

Vote Result Clashes With Student Opinion

A majority of 88.2 percent of the faculty supported President Lyndon B. Johnson in a faculty poll conducted this week by THE DAVIDSONIAN. In the faculty of 61 Democrats, eight Republicans, and seven Independent voters, Johnson attracted 67 votes. His opponent, Sen. Barry Goldwater, attracted nine.

Both in its opinion and in the strength of that opinion, the faculty differed from a recent decision of the Davidson student body. In a student poll held two weeks ago, Goldwater won by a margin of 24 votes, with 702 students voting. This gave him 51.0 percent of the votes.

Johnson derived his strength in the faculty poll from the members of his own party, although he sacrificed some of that strength to the Republican side of the ticket. Sixty-one members of the faculty declared themselves Democrats, and 54 of them voted for Johnson. Seven teach in the natural sciences, 20 in the humanities and fine arts, 14 in history and social sciences, and 13 are members of the administration.

The other seven Democrats voted for Goldwater. This “backlash" vote (Democrats voting for Goldwater) among the faculty saw a corresponding “frontlash” created by the six Republicans who voted for Johnson. The remaining two Republicans voted for Goldwater. All seven of the Independent voters placed themselves in support of Johnson.

Two faculty members refused to make a choice between the two candidates. One balloter involved in the natural sciences declared, “The prospect of either scares me." An Independent voter said, “I would prefer someone else.” A representative of the humanities wrote, “Johnson is less dangerous. The way Goldwater shoots from the mouth scares me." And a fourth voter deposited his shopping list, without comment.

Ballots for the poll were distributed through the faculty boxes in the Alumni Office. Where faculty members shared a pigeonhole, a suitable number of ballots was deposited. Some members of the administration do not have pigeonholes in the Alumni Office and were consequently left out of the balloting.

Council Will Support Store For Used Books

By JOHN BAILEY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Student Council met Tuesday night and decided to work for the establishment of a used-book store that would be supervised in conjunction with the existing bookstore in the Student Union. Sophomore Representative John Gresham reported that he had spoken with Peter Nicholls, manager of the bookstore-student store, who seemed very agreeable to the idea of reselling used books. The new facilities in the Union have made additional space available. By selling the used books on a 5 percent commission basis, Gresham contends, the cost of the extra time and personnel involved could be defrayed. It is hoped that perhaps this plan can be effected by the beginning of the second semester of this school year.

Student President Will Jackson was able to provide this definition of gambling in answer to questions from council members. (The definition comes from the minutes of the Student Council meeting on November 15, 1961.): “Gambling is defined as an organized game of skill or chance, the main purpose of which is the accumulation of money, and in which more than two people are involved.”

Jackson reminded the council that the Wildcat Handbook editor's election will be held within the next two weeks. He asked that anyone interested in running for the editorship contact Roger David (Rich. 112) immediately.

Freshman Adviser and Freshman Court Chairman John Barrow reported that 40 freshmen had been tried and subjected to useful work projects around the campus.

Drive Aims For $4.50 A Student

The YMCA began its annual fund drive yesterday with the hope of amassing $4,475 to finance the extensive program planned for this year. The campaign, which will attempt to collect $4.50 from each student, will end next Thursday.

This year’s program, explained in a pamphlet by Buck Lawrimore, features the Great Issues Lecture Series; the Forum Series, theme of which is “Sex and Ethics;” and the Book of the Year program. Three thousand dollars has been allotted for the Great Issues and Forum series; the estimated expense for the Book of the Year is $400.

In addition to these major expenditures, the YMCA will carry out its usual work in community aid, tutorial work, deputations, and spiritual life.

Congress Passes ROTC Measure

Revision and expansion of the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program cleared both houses shortly before Congress adjourned last week. The action cleared the bill for the President's signature, which is expected at any time. Included in the bill is a pay raise for advanced ROTC cadets from $27 to$40 per month, except a commission. Set up by the act of Congress is a program of one-to-four-year scholarships for students in Air Force, Navy, and Army ROTC units. (A plan currently established for students in Navy ROTC units was abolished.) Students who entered the program would be required to commit themselves to a minimum of four years of active-duty service. The scholarship would entail payment of tuition, books, laboratory, and other fees, plus a monthly pay of $50 during the school year. The estimated figure for tuition and other costs was $800 to $850 per student, and the estimated cost of pay was $500 per student.

Enrollment in the scholarship program is limited: Army and Air Force, until four years after final approval, 4,000. Thereafter the figure will be 5,500. The Navy’s limit will be set at 5,500 beginning on Sept. 1, 1965. Summer pay is also affected by the legislation: The bill set the monthly pay for senior ROTC students taking summer training programs at $111.15, while the monthly pay for students taking a summer program to qualify for the two-year, advanced senior ROTC program was set at $78. Travel allowance for eligible students was increased from five cents to six cents per mile. Also authorized is a $300 uniform allowance for ROTC graduates commissioned as regular or reserve officers. (The allowance is currently being paid only to officers receiving a reserve commission.)

In addition to the expansion of the junior ROTC program in the high schools, the bill authorizes the establishment of two-year courses of advanced training in military sciences for the Army, Navy, and Air Force. In order to be eligible for the two-year course, students first would be required to attend a six-to-eight week summer training program, which would stand in lieu of the first two years of basic senior ROTC training. The two-year courses could exist side-by-side with standard four-year senior ROTC courses at the same institution. The pay raise to students in the advanced senior ROTC programs applies to either the new two-year programs or the last two years of the existing four-year programs. While the pay raise is fixed at $40, the Department of Defense is granted discretionary authority to set the pay rate as high as $50 per month. However, Department spokesmen told a Senate committee during the summer that a raise beyond $40 was unlikely in the immediate future. The bill also makes students in an advanced ROTC course liable to call for two years of active duty.

Overwhelmingly In Poll

REORGANIZED EFFORTS

Rival Political Groups Campaign In Earnest

With the presidential election less than a month away, the two rival political camps on the Davidson campus — the Young Democrats Club and the Young Republicans Club — were busily engaged in organization and campaigning during the past week. Last Friday during chapel period, the Young Democrats Club held a brief organizational meeting. Sam Grimes, last year’s YDC president, served as chairman of this meeting. Approximately 40 past or potential YDC members were present. Grimes stated the club’s solid endorsement of the Johnson-Humphrey ticket and also announced that the club will support Dan K. Moore’s candidacy for Governor of North Carolina. Grimes did admit, however, the club is more a Preyer-Sanford oriented group. A meeting time of 8 p.m. Monday was set for the first official meeting.

At the Monday night meeting, Grimes, from Washington, N.C., was re-elected president for the coming year. Derek Lindsey was elected vice-president, with Gary Martin re-elected as secretary and Arnie Snider elected as treasurer. Committees to handle programs, projects, publicity, and polls were selected.

PROJECTS ON TAP

After a reading of the club's constitution, several projects were approved by the members. A drive to remind citizens to register and to vote will be launched in the Davidson area. Also, a drive to encourage Davidson students from out of state to acquire absentee ballots and vote will be undertaken by the members.

On the other side of the political fence, the Republicans were busy showing their enthusiasm for getting out the vote. Their meeting held Wednesday at 7 p.m. was open “for all those who believe in the Republican principle that government should do for the people what they cannot do for themselves.” The election of officers for the coming school year was held at the Wednesday meeting, and Preston St. Clair, from Indianapolis, Ind., was elected president. Elected to assist him were Larry Noah, vice-president; Harry McMullen, corresponding secretary; Walter Edgar, recording secretary; and Joe Obenshain, treasurer. Approximately 30 Young Republicans were present for the meeting. The club’s constitution was submitted for approval; a vote will be taken at the group's next meeting. Committees were appointed to handle membership, programs, publicity, platforms, and the current campaign.

A report on the state Young Republican Convention held in Durham last weekend was given by St. Clair, who attended with member Joe Beard. Several resolutions were passed at this gathering, one being to urge all college student councils to withdraw from NSA. Another resolution applauded Strom Thurmond for his “political bravery” and welcomed him to the GOP. A plan to sell GOPeanut Crunch was discussed at the convention. The Young Republicans have attempted to place a Republican chairman on each hall in the dorms and hope to encourage all Goldwater supporters to work for his election. The club also plans to work in cooperation with the Republican Headquarters in Charlotte.

Poet And Critic Van Doren Makes Quiet Impression

By TED GLUSMAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

He was no blaze of educated fire, no lion of literature, but rather a quiet man, with a soft voice and a way of saying exactly what he meant. He spent one day at Davidson, reading poetry, commenting on it, and leaving those who heard him with a feeling of having had a heart-to-heart talk with a wise old gentleman. He was the year's first Reynolds lecturer, Mark Van Doren.

Dr. Van Doren spoke first to students in Hodson Hall Monday evening. His introduction by President D. Grier Martin included an impressive list of accomplishments, most notably a Pulitzer Prize in poetry. As he stood to speak, with his shock of white hair and his kind smile, the audience was inevitably reminded of Robert Frost. Later, as Van Doren read some of his own poems, the comparison was again made by many of his listeners. The awe with which many greeted him, however, was quickly replaced by a warm friendship between audience and speaker, as Van Doren told his audience that he was not going to lecture, because he had “run out of things to say.” Instead, he chose as his topic “Animals,” and spent the rest of his time reading and commenting on poems about them. He was never deeply philosophical, but always entertaining and always interesting. In fact, he presented some unique views about animals. One that stuck in the minds of most was that while we talk about “domesticated animals,” the cat and the dog are truly civilized, for they live in our houses with us; the other animals are the real domesticated ones.

Though Dr. Van Doren is probably better known as a literary critic than as a poet, (his The Poetry of John Dryden is considered the best book on Dryden's poetry, and his criticisms of Shakespeare and Hawthorne rank among the best), he avoided criticism entirely during his stay here, preferring instead to stick to his own poetry. Tuesday Van Doren spoke to the student body, choosing as his topic “Love Poems,” but commenting that almost any poem could be considered a love poem. His readings on this occasion consisted mainly of samples from a series of sonnets and a series of what he called “Dunce Poems.” Student reaction was particularly good toward the latter, which Van Doren described as poems written without thought. “It’s nice sometimes,” he said, “to talk without thinking.” Again Van Doren was not philosophical, but sounded almost as if he were having an informal chat with the student body. The students, in return, were surprised and pleased by this informal, yet fascinating, style of presentation.

When he finished, the applause was quiet, and rather solemn. There was no obvious enthusiasm, no cheering. The thing to do was to applaud for a moment, then go home and think. Go home and remember the joy this man received from even the simplest things in life. Remember how he was able to share this joy with a thousand individuals. It was, to say the least, an impressive performance.

MARK VAN DOREN
“A quiet man, with a soft voice”