FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1964

Side Lights | BY RICK LOWERY

THIS WEEK | THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE.

Davidson Romps Twice After Falling To W Va

BY TUCKER LAXTON

It didn't have to happen, but nonetheless it did. The Wildcats lost a game which they had won, blown, then tied up. With one second left and the score tied, West Virginia's Marty Lentz attempted a desperation shot from half-court which was batted down before it reached the rim. Goaltending was consequently called, and the unbelieving Wildcats suddenly found themselves on the short end of a 75-73 score.

In Williamsburg, Va., there is a quaint building known affectionately by all William and Mary rooters as “Little” Blow Gym. Famed for its balconies, tom-toms, ferocious end sections, and stunning upsets, Blow Gym was dark Tuesday night. About one year ago, such was not the case. Davidson invaded this historic campus as a Cinderella sophomore outfit on its way to a conference championship. But on this night two guards, Roger Bergey and Dave Hunter, neither of whom topped five feet ten inches, left Davidson wounded and beaten. That night Mr. Bergey and Mr. Hunter continually retreated to half-court and swooped back and forth, looking for an opening, and time after time the opening came, as these two comparative dwarfs of the court drove down the line to score a William and Mary upset.

Tuesday night, the rather modest confines of Blow Gym were escaped and the nationally ranked ’Cats returned for revenge in Norfolk Sports Arena. Lest anyone gets the wrong idea, the Arena seats 3500 people and looks like an old high school auditorium complete with stage. Admittedly, however, the conditions are far better than in Blow Gym. This year things weren't the same, however, and perhaps the most interesting part of the game was the play of Don Davidson. Davidson was handed the job of stopping an old high school teammate and general Nemesis, Dave Hunter. (Prudently the game was billed in Norfolk as Hunter vs. Hetzel.) In the first half, Hunter did not score and his total production for the game was five points, two of which were netted after Davidson left the game. Defense was not the only aspect of the game in which Davidson excelled. In addition, he hit several outside shots along with a pair of layups to complete probably the finest game of his career.

THIS PICTURE TELLS THE TALE. The scoreboard reads Davidson 129 (a record) VMI 91. And the crowd overflowed onto the floor behind the basket as some of the more sensitive and sensible members of the student body fled the gym for fear of being crushed to enjoy the game on the tube. (Photo by McCutchen)

In addition to Davidson’s performance, Fred Hetzel played one of the most aggressive games in recent memory. He scored 36 points, hitting everything from hook shots to 30-foot jumpers, while raking in 17 rebounds—which in the opinion of one observer (me) failed to include several controlled tips and offensive follow-up shots. I repeat, however, the most impressive part of his performance was the attitude he displayed throughout his 35-minute performance. For this was a night when Hetzel repeatedly battered William and Mary’s rebounders for one, two, and sometimes three shots. All in all, Tuesday’s game in Norfolk was one of the finest games of the year and certainly the finest road performance.

BACK AND FORTH

To regress for a moment. West Virginia proved one thing the other evening—rebounding wins games. I think the whole story of that game can well be summed up in the rebounding statistics. I believe clearer than anything else these statistics pointed to the most glaring weakness the ’Cats can claim. Against top-flight competition, Davidson must rebound more aggressively and more proficiently if they are to survive for any length of time. In the approaching weeks, two ball games stand out as real tests prior to the conference tournament. Duke, of course, is one of these and the other will be Furman in Greenville. Unfortunately, both of these games will be played in the same week following the Richmond game here and fatigue itself could well be a factor before the week is through.

JUSTICE

I’d also like to express my condolences to the losers in Monday night’s ticket drawing. Fair though it must have been, justice was not served. Anytime that the freshman members of the student body win nearly 50% of all tickets, something is wrong. A more equitable solution I feel would have been to eliminate the freshmen and divide the tickets between classes. Something like—60% to be drawn from the senior class, 25% from the juniors, and 15% from the sophomores. After all, the senior class has followed the basketball fortunes of Davidson from the dark days.

SPRATT SHORTS

Congratulations to Fred Hetzel and Coach Driesell whose pictures adorn the cover of the latest copy of Scholastic Coach. A “Rick salute” to Davidson’s lone collegiate rooting section in Norfolk Tuesday—Alex Bernhardt and Larry “Jose” Compton. John Spratt drew his own name and was not lynched—amazing. The Pikas long ago beat the Independents in fraternity basketball. The swimming team has a winning record and several individual records have already fallen. Rumor has it that the fire marshal will inspect the gym tonight—good luck. Dennis Knight, freshman basketball center, transferred to Marietta College in Ohio. Weenie Miller (VMI coach) in a Norfolk intermission interview commented that he had never seen such pre-game excitement in a crowd as he saw here and then added that this same crowd displayed a remarkable amount of sportsmanship. Finally, to my brother—Dear Jack, the score in Norfolk Tuesday could have been a lot worse—I told you so.

STATISTICAL VIEW ...

Player FG Pct. FT Pct. RB Avg. Pts. Avg.
Fred Hetzel 56.3 78.1 256 14.2 482 26.8
Dick Snyder 55.3 86.1 106 5.9 292 16.2
Don Davidson 58.1 66.2 69 3.83 243 13.5

’Cat Swimmers Surprise With Strong 3-2-1 Record

BY BOB STRAUSER

Coach Dwight Shoe and his small band of ’Cat swimmers seem to have found sudden prosperity with the new year. Going into next Thursday's meet here with the University of Georgia, Davidson will carry a 3-2-1 record, having lost only one meet since Christmas. The Christmas vacation ended abruptly for the squad in a meet with Appalachian during the first week of classes. Originally scheduled to meet the ’Cats on December 12, the Apps improved their performance very little by the delay: Davidson trounced their Carolina opponents 68-39. Following a narrow defeat by American University after the exam break, the ’Cats bounced back to a 50-46 win over Old Dominion in Norfolk on January 29. Actually, the score was deceiving: Davidson had the meet sewn up 50-39 going into the last relay. Finally, the squad struggled to a 46-46 tie with an improved South Carolina team last Tuesday. Against Appalachian, Jim Stokes set a record in the butterfly with a time of 2:28. Stokes swam by himself, as Appalach

Grapplers Drop 26-5 To Surprising Pfeiffer

BY JOHNNY CLARK

Pfeiffer’s surprisingly tough grapplers halted Wednesday the winning streak of Davidson’s wrestling team at one, winning 26-5 and also ending the Wildcat’s longest victory streak of the current season. After falling 21-11 to Duke on Jan. 10, and 20-15 to North Carolina State on Jan. 15, in pre-exams matches, Coach Charlie Parker’s charges took their first victory of the season last Saturday, Feb. 1, in Johnston gymnasium, by overwhelming Emory 22-6. Winning 6 of 8 matches, including two forfeits, the Wildcats completely outclassed the boys from Atlanta, after having bowed 16-14 the day before to their cross-town neighbors. Pfeiffer’s win, in which Allen, Mills, and Joe Peel were pinned, brought the Wildcats’ record to 1-6 and, according to Parker, was “one of the worst beatings we've ever gotten.” Russ Walls’ win in the heavyweight match and a tie by Nichols in the 177 lbs. bracket

Much discontent has been expressed by students, many of whom ordered tickets in November, and who were all sold seats located behind the backboard.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

that Terry Holland 62.7 708 115 64 255 142 | many,” laments Scott. Out of Barry Teague 47.5 743 46 2.56 146 8.1 | the 2,664 tickets allotted to Dav- Charlie Marcon 56.7 71.4 34 189 91 5.06 | idson, only 381 are $12 seats, all Bill Beermann 44.8 85.7 13 929 50 = 3.571 | which were sold to under- Stone 44.1 83.3 22 1.69 45 3.46 | ers of Davidson's Century Club. Com Harkness 12.5 50.0 9 692 5 385 6 | Club members got first preference, as they have in Paul Briggs 50.0 58.3 21 1.4 27 | all of our Coliseum games, and Stuart Burness 50.0 50.0 3 41 3 | next we tried to fill requests in Own Team Totals 55.4 75.3 803 446 1639 91.1 | the order in which we received 69.6 619 344 1270 70.6 | them,” reports Scott. "We Opponents’ Totals 42.6 | created sections for the faculty SINGLE GAME HIGHS | and for the students directly be- TP — Hetzel, 40 (Jacksonville, Dec. 14, ’63) | hind the goals, and, in my opin- FG — Hetzel, 21 (William and Mary, Feb. 4, ’64) | ion, these seats are better than FTA — Hetzel, 20 (Jacksonville, Dec. 14, ’63) | those in the balconies.” FTM — Hetzel, 16 (Jacksonville, Dec. 14, ’63) | Scott has also received com- RB — Hetzel, 21 (Wofford, Jan. 25, ’64) | plaints from other conference Scott Bemoans Problems Of Tournament Seating | schools desiring better sections Davidson’s hosting the Southern Conference basket- | for their followers. Scott noted ball tournament, along with the Wildcats’ phenomenal | that “each member school was success on the hardwood, is providing the school’s | given as many tickets as they athletic director, Dr. Tom Scott, with an abundance of | could sell, and the four schools headaches, no small number of which have been caused | requesting the most tickets were by the seating situation in the Charlotte Coliseum. | given the best locations.” were the only bright spots for Parker in Wednesday's match at Misenheimer. Parker pre- ferred not to discuss the contest, saying only that “they were good, but not that good” and that he just wanted “to forget.” Pembroke State will challenge the Wildcats in their next match, Feb. 14, and encounters with the University of Georgia and the perennial strong soldier boys of Citadel round out Davidson's remaining wrestling schedule for the regular season. Looking ahead to the Southern Conference tournament, to be held at Davidson, March 6 and 7, Parker sees some hope for the Wildcats. “Mills and Bisard have each lost only twice this year, and Walls, who has won his last four matches, is beginning to look pretty good.” Complicating the situation is the assertion by the Coliseum ticket office that it has no tickets, and that it will put on sale February 10 only those tickets that are returned by the conference schools. “This isn't true,” says Scott. “There won't be any tickets returned, but the Coliseum has 5,000 tickets to distribute, including tickets to the two center sections of the Coliseum. I imagine that their best tickets will go to their regular customers, and that the tickets to go on sale Monday morning will be $10 seats, mostly in the upper sections behind the goals.” Five missed foul shots in the waning minutes were also the difference between victory and defeat. The “Cats couldn't miss in the first half, hitting 12 of 13 charity shots. West Virginia took an early three-point lead, but Don Davidson cut it quickly on 2 successive layups. Baskets were exchanged until the ‘Cats ripped away from a 14-14 tie and took a 26-18 lead. The Mountaineers chipped it away and finally tied it at 38 all. From here Davidson went ahead for a 44-38 halftime lead. The Wildcats took command in the second half, grabbing another eight-point lead at 56-48. Then the swift Mountaineer guards came alive, led by Ricky Ray along with center, Tom Lowry, and got close at 66-63. From this point on, the ‘Cats missed three field goals and five foul shots, and West Virginia took a four-point lead, 73-69, with a minute left to play. Fred Hetzel hit a follow-up, and later Charlie Marcon hit a crucial jumper to tie the score at 73 all. With five seconds left, West Virginia brought the ball down and Lentz’s throw from half-court was slapped away by Hetzel as the buzzer sounded. Goaltending was called, and it was all over. Dick Snyder and Terry Holland scored 20 and 18 points respectively in the defeat. In a game played the Saturday before, Davidson once again displayed its awesome power in crushing Wofford 105-73. It was a doubly good win for the ‘Cats because they celebrated the end of exams while regaining their early season strength after close calls with Virginia and Richmond. Leading by 30 points with 13:37 remaining, Coach Driesell started substituting. Bill Beerman entered the game and demonstrated a deadly outside jump shot. While he loosened up the Wofford zone with six outside shots, Hetzel, Holland, and Davidson added to the confusion by picking apart the zone with inside layups. Rebounding from the West Virginia defeat, the “Cats met a good VMI team here in Richardson Gym on Saturday night. Before a local television audience and an overflow crowd, Davidson won the game in the first five minutes and enjoyed themselves for the remaining 35. Five players hit in double figures for the ‘Cats, including Fred Hetzel with 31, but Bill Blair's 33 for VMI took scoring honors. In running to a 129-91 victory, Davidson broke a short-lived high scoring mark for team and game. The following Tuesday night, the ‘Cats turned in their best road performance within recent memory and swept William and Mary from the floor of the Norfolk Arena. Don Davidson came through with a great defensive job; Fred Hetzel contributed 36 points and 17 rebounds. Martin Morris left late in the second half with 26 points to lead the William and Mary scorers. The ‘Cats notched their seventeenth victory by a decisive 111-84 margin. Tonight Coach Driesell and his squad try to improve their national ranking at the expense of Georgia Southern. Tom Florian, a highly touted and seemingly ageless guard, has been leading the Southern squad in scoring. Those who remember last year's game will anticipate no victory by default. Coach Shoe noted particularly the progress of his medley relay team, composed of John Alexander, Mark Waldron, Jim Stokes, and Randy Hughes. They are swimming now at 4:13; the school record in the event is 4:07. Also according to Shoe, the diving of Bill Jacobs “improves with every meet.” The freshman squad has its first meet since Christmas with the Appalachian varsity next Tuesday. At 5:00 Thursday afternoon, the varsity will meet the University of Georgia here at Davidson. “That Georgia squad,” said Shoe, “will be really tough, maybe as good as we've seen.” RANDY HUGHES, recent record breaker, takes a break for the camera in the caverns of Johnston Gym. (Photo by McCutchen) SALUTE: BEN COOK Because of Ben Cook (B.I.E. 1958, M.B.A., 1961), businessmen in five southern states now benefit from new Dial Teletypewriter Service. Ben, a Traffic Supervisor with Southern Bell in Atlanta, supervised the mechanizing of the Operating Center that serves Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Tennessee. Ben qualified for his latest position by skillfully handling a variety of other assignments given him by the company. On one, he supervised three groups of instructors who train customers in the use of new telephone services. On another, he was responsible for personnel administration and planning involving a $250,000 yearly payroll. On all, he showed ability that will take him far with Southern Bell. Ben Cook, like many young engineers, is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES TELEPHONE MAN-OF-THE-MONTH

---