Cats Whip Wake Forest 95-88, Face St. Joe Tomorrow

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1964

DAVIDSON STUDENT GIVES TRAVELOGUE (See Page Three)

VOL. LIV.

Exchange Program Discussed

Will Jackson presented the possibility of participating in a student exchange program with Amherst College to the Student Council at
the council's weekly meeting Monday night. Jackson called the program "a sort of cultural exchange" in which eight Davidson students
would travel to Amherst over spring vacation next semester and visit for several days, attending classes, examining student life in
general, and perhaps borrowing ideas from Amherst campus life to use at this school. Likewise, eight Amherst men would come
to Davidson over their spring vacations for the same purpose.

Transportation to the host college would be paid by the student himself, while the host would feed and lodge the
visiting student. Jackson asked that any member of the student body interested in participating in this program see him as
soon as possible for further details.

The council voted to grant a $20 subsidy to Ken Childs, Davidson delegate to the Student Conference on National Affairs,
with an assurance of 15 extra dollars for a chapel program to be given by the delegate upon his return.
This thirty-five dollars would pay about half of the cost of the trip. The conference will be concerned with the
Latin American situation.

Tommy Heffner was the only council member not present at the meeting.

Lester Braine Talks On English Novel

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The well-known English novelist John Braine, author of Room at the Top, chosen as YMCA book of the semester, recently
visited the Davidson campus. While here Braine gave a series of talks and discussions on "Contemporary Novelists in Britain," or
as he put it, "a very non-academic, general discussion about my generation of English novelists."

In chapel he dealt with contemporary literature as a whole, and with only a few specific cases. In England, according
to Braine, writers have no sense of togetherness whatsoever. There are no literary movements or real trends as such—each author
writes what and as he feels he should, regardless of the success of anyone else in any other style. It
could even be said that, "All English writers are anarchists," because not only do they not follow each other, but
"they do not meet their fellow writers very often. As a matter of fact, they don't even meet their fellow
human beings very often."

In the 35-year period from 1918 through 1953, the English novel took a decided turn for the worse. They were
generally set in London and the hero was almost always from the middle or upper classes, with a private income.
This not only gets repetitious, but, according to Braine, it is also very unrealistic because the number of middle-class people
having a private income is almost nil. Another point seen in most novels of this period is that the hero
is nearly always defeated at the end of the story. This defeat was not even a glorious one, but instead
a rather ignominious one—a "defeat in a muted key." Because of this, the protagonist came to be known as a
"wet hero," and the really wet ones were known as "drips."

At this point, Braine hastened to make it clear that not all novels of this time were worthless; in fact,
there were some very good ones, but as a rule, most of them limited themselves too much to be of
any value. This was very different from the American novel which, "though it often suffers from a lack of taste
and an addiction to rhetoric," shows tremendous vitality—at times too much vitality. The English instead showed far too little vitality.

In commenting on England's "angry young men movement" as it has been called, Braine tagged it purely a journalistic myth,
since there are no literary movements in England. Anyone who has had a book published since 1953 is now termed
an angry young man by such uninformed critics as Leslie Fiedler ("the genius who discovered Huckleberry Finn was homosexual").

Braine did, however, specifically mention three men who did start writing in a certain style which has caught on lately
in England. The first, Kingsley Amis, who started the ball rolling with his novel, Lucky Jim, not only shocked the
literary world by setting his novel in a university other than Oxford or Cambridge, but his protagonist even wins a
resounding victory in the end. Braine himself was another leader in breaking away from the old mode of writing, with
his Room at The Top. This was the first novel set outside of London without a Northern background which was
actually taken seriously. The hero, from the working classes, is not, as is usual, concerned for the plight of the
working classes, but rather for his own plight in escaping from his class. The third, David Storey, with his Sporting
Life, breaks the pattern of having a professional sportsman as his hero and by not making it a propaganda novel
about the condition of the working class. Rather, it showed them as completely human, realistic characters.

In a discussion later, when asked whether untrue character or situation portrayals in the film of Room at the Top
annoyed him, Braine answered that a film must necessarily oversimplify at times, and besides, "what the film does is no
skin off my nose." This is why, in response to the question of whether he thought the film should or
would get the Academy Award, he could reply with complete indifference: "The Academy Award means nothing to me."

Dr. Wade P. Huie Will Speak Sunday

The Rev. Wade P. Huie, Jr., Peter Marshall Professor of Homiletics at Columbia Theological Seminary, will speak in Vespers Sunday.
The title of his sermon will be "Raising Cain."

Huie received his AB degree from Emory University in 1943 and his BD degree from Columbia Theological Seminary in 1946.
From 1947 to 1949, he traveled extensively in Western Europe and the Middle East, receiving his PhD from the University
of Edinburgh in Scotland in 1949. He has done subsequent graduate work at Princeton Theological Seminary and Union Theological Seminary
and is currently a member of the Board of Christian Education and the General Council of the Presbyterian Church U.
S. and of the Campus Christian Life Council of the synod of Georgia.

There are four vesper services left in the semester, including Christmas Vespers.

Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, inducted six seniors and one faculty member into membership in a tapping ceremony on
Tuesday. Membership in the fraternity is the highest leadership honor at Davidson and is based on excellence in the fields
of scholarship, athletics, social and religious activities, publications, and cultural activities. The purpose of ODK is to recognize men who
have attained eminence in two or more of these fields and to inspire others to strive for similar attainments. It
also tries to bring together members of the faculty and student body on a basis of mutual interest and understanding.
These new members join other professors and students who have been inducted into ODK in past years.

Dr. Malcolm Lester, Professor of History at Davidson, studied at Mercer University, the University of Virginia, and the University of
London. He is a member of Alpha Tau Omega and Phi Beta Kappa, and was a Fulbright Scholar. He was
Professor of History and Dean of the College of Liberal Arts at Mercer before coming to Davidson in 1959.

Dick Bates, a history major from Miami, Fla., is chairman of the Honor Court and was president of the 1962
Freshman Council. A member of Kappa Alpha, he is a Dana Scholar and is a former member of the DAVIDSONIAN
Staff.

Roger David, a pre-medicine major from Winston-Salem, is a member of Alpha Tau Omega and a Dana Scholar. He is
a member of Eumeanean Literary Society, Phi Eta Sigma, and has been editor of the Wildcat Handbook and on the
DAVIDSONIAN and Annual Staffs.

Steve Davidson, a history major from West Palm Beach, Fla., is past vice president of the YMCA and is on
the varsity football and swimming teams. He holds a football scholarship and is a member of Phi Delta Theta and
Eumenean Literary Society.

Rufus Hallmark, a history-FrenchMajor from Fort Bragg, holds a McConnell Scholarship and is president of the Male Chorus. He is
a member of Phi Beta Kappa, the DAVIDSONIAN staff, and Lingle Manor. Tommy Heffner, a pre-medicine major from Newton, is
former secretary-treasurer and vice-president of the Student Council, and serves on the current council as vice-president of the Senior Class.
He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, Alpha Phi Omega, Phi Eta Sigma, D-Club, and the cross-country team.

College Union Plans | See Details On Page Four

COACH DOLE RESIGNS; NO SUCCESSOR NAMED (See Page Five)

NUMBER ELEVEN

For Christmas Party

The College Union’s fifth annual Christmas Party will be held on Friday night, Dec. 18 from 7:30 until 12:30. According
to Zach Long, chief propagandist of the Union (who also serves as vice-president of the Union) the production will be
the “sharpest, gayest, and most expensive campus event of the year.” Entertainment will feature local groups, according to Long, as
well as three combos which will be stationed in different parts of the building, door prizes, and fortune telling.

PHI BETE LECTURER

Jefferson Authority Will Lecture Friday

Dumas Malone, noted biographer of Thomas Jefferson and editor of the Dictionary of American Biography, will lecture on “Thomas Jefferson
and Our Time” next Friday at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Historian Malone, whose visit is sponsored by the local
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, will make the first appearance of his two-day visit during chapel Thursday. His talk on
“Mr. Jefferson’s Education” will be followed by an informal coffee hour in the Union. Thursday evening at 8:30 he will
meet informally with history majors in the Faculty Clubroom on the Old Fraternity Court. The following morning at 11 Malone
will lecture to Humanities 21 on “Reflections on Biography.” In addition, the former Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History at
the University of Virginia will visit various history classes and will be available for informal conferences with students and faculty
members.

Malone took his AB at Emory College and later received BD, AM, and PhD degrees from Yale University. After serving
on the faculties at Yale and U. Va., the historian became an editor of the Dictionary of American Biography in
1929 and two years later became editor-in-chief. From 1936 to 1943 he was director of the Harvard University Press. Malone
taught at Columbia University from 1945 until 1959 when he returned to U. Va. where he is biographer-in-residence. The author
of a number of publications, the professor is now attempting to complete a projected five-volume biography of Thomas Jefferson. The
first three volumes include Jefferson the Virginian, Jefferson and the Rights of Man, and Jefferson and the Ordeal of Liberty.

Phi Beta Kappa’s Visiting Scholar Program was begun in 1956 to enable more schools to have leading scholars participate in
campus activities. Under the sponsorship of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, a scholar spends two or three days
on campus. Generally, a visiting scholar gives a public lecture, leads classroom discussions, and meets informally with the students and
faculty.

DUMAS MALONE

Faculty To Focus On Proposals

The faculty, focusing on the drinking situation, will discuss and possibly act on the drinking situation at its monthly meeting
Tuesday, reports President D. Grier Martin. “This is not a new question. There has been drinking at Davidson for a
long time, but there seems to have been an increase lately," explained Martin. At the group’s last meeting on Nov.
10, two possible solutions to the problem were submitted. One suggestion was proposed by Will Jackson, Fred Sackett, and Charlie
Dibble, as representatives of the student body. The second measure was put forward by the Executive Committee of the faculty.
No vote was taken on either proposal at the November meeting, and they were both tabled until this month's meeting.
It was felt that faculty members needed more time to think about these measures and to discuss them informally.

At the Nov. 10 meeting, Jackson, Sackett, and Dibble presented a poll taken by the Student Council through the fraternities.
The poll indicated that 81 percent of the student body drink, 70 percent have kept alcohol on campus, and 36
percent have kept alcoholic beverages in the dorms. The Office of the Dean of Students is now polling 20 percent
of the student body to determine prevalent student opinion. Questions deal with aspects of the student body and faculty rules
on drinking. Results of the poll will be presented at the meeting Tuesday.
