PAGE EIGHT

(Staff Photo by Smith)

“WE FINALLY GOT THE NOTEBOOK, GRIER!” Dr. Chalmers Davidson Shows Wilson’s Journal To Pres. Martin (left).

College Buys Journal Kept By Wilson Here

A notebook which was kept by Woodrow Wilson when he was a Davidson student has been purchased by the college for $3,500 from Stanley Horne of Nashville, Tenn., who reportedly discovered the notebook in a second-hand book store. President D. Grier Martin and Director of the Library Chalmers G. Davidson arranged for the $3,500 acquisition with the assistance of Dr. Arthur S. Link, a noted Wilson scholar of the Princeton University faculty and father of a Davidson freshman.

“We have known of the existence of the notebook in the library of Mr. Horne for a good many years,” said Dr. Davidson, “and naturally felt that since Wilson kept the notebook while at Davidson that it belonged in the college's Rare Book Room. We were somewhat concerned when we learned of Princeton’s interest in acquiring the notebook, but gained, with Dr. Link's help, the right of first refusal if Mr. Horne would name a price.” Horne, editor of the Southern Lumberman, agreed to sell it. The Richardson Foundation of Greensboro and New York, constant benefactors of the college, aware of what the notebook would mean to the Davidson Library, provided half of the $3,500 purchase price.

Wilson was known as Thomas W. Wilson at Davidson. He played second base on the freshman baseball team of the 1873-74 school year. He spent hours practicing his handwriting, had a keen interest in British military history (locating a possible relative, Lord T. W. Wilson, Duke of Arlington, Commander of the Royal Lancers Guard in 1799). He was careful in conjugating his Greek verbs, following the prayers from the “Southern Presbyterian,” and keeping track of his laundry. Yet he was as carefree as the next man in scribbling or doodling on an unnecessary page.

Wilson came to Davidson while his father was teaching in Columbia Seminary in the year 1873. Repeatedly stating that he wished to continue his education nearer to where history was being made, he enrolled in Princeton a year later, remaining out of school for an interim period of one year.

Many stories have circulated on the Davidson campus over the years, some true, some historically not, but all becoming a part of the Davidson legend. One of the most often told is of Wilson’s return to Davidson after he became President. He desired to see his room in old Chambers Building: his aide knocked on the door and told the student inside “This is Woodrow Wilson, President of the United States.” The student inside, anticipating a joke being played by a fellow student replied, “Well, this is the Queen of Sheba — grease yourself and slide under the door.” And when the President turned the knob and walked in, the student is reported to have jumped out the window.

True or false, Wilson did later write of his dormitory life at Davidson, stating that each student was responsible for supplying wood for his dormitory room fireplace and that some well-off students hired it done, but since he was not one of these he took care of this chore himself.

The Wilson Notebook, photocopies of which have been requested by Princeton, will be placed in the Davidson Library Smith Rare Book Room. Other items there in the Wilson collection are several letters from President Wilson to members of the Davidson faculty, as well as first editions of all Wilson's published works.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

As First Reynolds Lecturer

ACCOUNT WITH LAUNDRESS—page from Woodrow Wilson’s Journal shows his carefully kept account with the laundress in 1873. Davidson College recently paid $3,500 for the notebook kept by Wilson when he was a freshman here. (Staff Photo by Smith)

Wind Ensemble Plans Sunday Lawn Concert

The Davidson College Wind Ensemble will present its first concert of the season on Sunday, Sept. 27. The open-air performance will begin at 4:30 p.m. in front of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. The 36-member ensemble, under the direction of Dr. Grier M. Williams, will play selections ranging from classical opera to children’s nursery songs. The concert, scheduled to last 45 minutes, will feature four marches: “Father of Victory,” “Billboard March,” “Chimes of Liberty,” and Handel’s “Slow March” from Scipio. The major classical work will be Ravel's “Pavan for a Dead Princess.” Following this, a medley of Jerome Kern's songs, plus “American Patrol” and “Amparito Roca,” will represent the other end of the musical spectrum. Also included will be “Pop Goes the Weasel,” a special number “just for the kids.”

The concert will mark the debut of 12 freshmen. Chosen as a result of the Orientation Week try-outs, they will constitute one-third of the orchestra. Part of the reason for such a large number of newcomers is the loss of several transfer students and five students living abroad.

New Group Will Show ‘Intellectual’ Flicks

A new organization called the “Film Friends of Davidson” has been created by the Union Film Committee to further interest in movies of high intellectual content. Film Committee Chairman Gordon Ball has announced that in the course of the current semester five films will be shown in Hodson Hall on separate Wednesday nights at 8:00 p.m. A short subject will be charged for single admission, but subscriptions of two dollars to cover admission to the set of five movies will also be offered. Announcements giving the full details shouldArrive in faculty members’ and students’ mailboxes by next week, Ball said. People in Charlotte and at Queens College will also be invited to participate. On Oct. 7, "La Strada" will be shown. This movie, by Italian Director Federico Fellini, won the Academy Award as the best foreign film of 1956 and the Grand Prize at the Venice International Film Festival. "Throne of Blood," a Japanese picture whose story source is Shakespeare's Macbeth, will be shown on Oct. 28. "Breathless," the highly praised and highly experimental film by Jean-Luc Godard, will appear on Nov. 18, and "Bed and Sofa," an early Russian silent-screen classic, will follow it on Dec. 9. The final film of the lot will be "The Savage Eye." It is American, and it is described as a "half-documentary, half-fantasy (which) fuses extraordinary images of the real world — the seamier side of life in Los Angeles — with the philosophical allegories of a young divorcee."

"We believe there is a certain element at Davidson which will appreciate this, which has been waiting for this, and that there are those who will find it more than they expected," Ball said concerning the enterprise this year.

Dr. Williams commented that this Freshman Class was "one of the best groups of instrumentalists in recent years." As an example of this confidence, the ensemble will be performing after only two rehearsals. Dr. Williams encourages the student body, as well as the general public, to attend all the lawn concerts given this autumn and next spring.

Mark Van Doren, Pulitzer Prize-winning poet and author, will visit Davidson on Oct. 5-6 as the year's first Reynolds Lecturer. In his appearances in Hodson Hall Monday night, Oct. 5, and in chapel Tuesday, Van Doren will read and comment on selections from his poetry. He will also speak on "Liberal Education" at a luncheon for Davidson alumni in Charlotte Tuesday.

Rush Week Brings New Infringements

The Davidson Interfraternity Council’s Rush Week brought 73% of the freshmen into the Greek system on the first day of pledging, saw five infringements made of the regulations governing it, and applied a "note moratorium" in the middle of its five-day existence. The 73% figure — not the largest in Davidson's history — conceals the fact that the 203 freshmen it represents constitute the largest pledge group ever inducted on the campus. Rick Von Unwerth, president of the IFC, pointed out that the class of '68 is one of the largest ever to undergo rush, due to the spaces made available by the 23 juniors now in Europe.

Five violations were made of the IFC's regulations, and each violator paid the standard $50 fine stipulated in the same set of regulations. Von Unwerth did not elaborate on the particular persons, fraternities, or violations involved.

It has been past practice during Rush Week for a fraternity member to leave a note if he found a freshman not in his room during dormitory rush. This year, Von Unwerth felt compelled to call a halt to the custom soon after Rush Week had begun. "The privilege was abused," he said. "The courtesy was no longer a courtesy. It turned into a contest to see how many notes could be piled on a guy’s desk. Considerable bad blood was stirred up among the fraternities."

The chart system, devised by Dave Olin of the class of '64, worked smoothly in its second year. A large schedule card was drawn up for each freshman and put on the wall in Chambers basement. Freshmen who were unsure of the procedures involved were given a briefing at 9:30 Sunday night in Hodson Hall. Von Unwerth credited IFC Rush Chairman Rock Walker and Vice-president Fred Sackett for the efficiency and smoothness with which they handled Rush Week. "They did an excellent job. All the credit belongs to them."

Van Doren Will Appear

Having taught English at Columbia University for 40 years, he retired with his wife Dorothy to a farm in Cornwall, Connecticut. Collected Poems brought the Pulitzer Prize to Van Doren in 1939. With an AB and an AM from the University of Illinois, Van Doren earned his PhD degree from Columbia in 1920. He is also the recipient of a Litt D from Bowdoin and an LHD from his alma mater, the University of Illinois. A member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, he was literary editor of The Nation, 1924-28. Also, Van Doren was a motion picture critic from 1935 to 1938.

The Narrative Poems of Mark Van Doren and Collected and New Poems are two of his most recent works. He also wrote Selected Poems, Home with Hazel and Other Stories, Liberal Education, The Autobiography of Mark Van Doren, The Last Days of Lincoln and Morning Worship and Other Poems. As a literary critic, Van Doren has produced a wealth of volumes. These include: The Poetry of John Dryden; Shakespeare; Nathaniel Hawthorne; The Noble Voice; Don Quixote’s Profession; The Happy Critic and Other Essays; and An Introduction to Poetry.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Low-cost Blue Cross and Blue Shield health protection now available to full-time students between 19 and 24 years of age: Student Benefits Program

As a new school year arrives, Hospital Care Association is again offering its special Student Certificate that provides comprehensive hospital, surgical, medical, and out-patient benefits. Not just an accidental injury coverage, this is a regular Blue Cross and Blue Shield contract developed in response to many requests from subscribers for a low-cost plan to cover sons and daughters still in school who are past the 19-year age limit for family certificates.

The Student Benefits Program is available to full-time college and trade school students at a cost of only $2.00 per month, payable quarterly. It offers year-round coverage both on and off the campus. If you are a college or trade school student between the ages of 19 and 24 — or the parent of a student — send the coupon today for a free folder giving full details about this special Blue Cross and Blue Shield coverage.

HOSPITAL CARE ASSOCIATION DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA

Mail this coupon today!

HOSPITAL CARE ASSOCIATION 800 SOUTH DUKE STREET, DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA

Please send me information on the Blue Cross-Blue Shield Student Benefits Program.

NAME_________ AGE_________

ADDRESS_________ CITY_________ STATE_________