FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

Side Lights BY RICK LOWERY

THANK YOU...

The time for tears is past. That time was last Friday night. Perhaps it was best summed up as “All that running to lose tonight.” All congratulations along with best wishes are in order for VMI. They deserve all they receive. At the risk of sounding a bit corny, congratulations are due the ’Cats also. Congratulations and a word of thanks. Thanks for adding something noticeably lacking since Davidson became a “suitcase college”—a sense of common interest that overcame fraternal and class isolation.

ERIC NICHOLS AND BILL PRIDGEN tune up for their last role in today’s SC wrestling.

Stunning Tourney Upset Only Dims Great Season BY BILL BRIGGS

It could have been the climax of a Shakespearean tragedy; the end would not have been more dramatic than Davidson's 82-81 loss to VMI a week ago tonight in the semi-finals of the Southern Conference Tournament at Charlotte. Two major contributions of this team deserve appreciation of a great many people in this college: one is general, the other specific. The first contribution is providing an example of excellence which one rarely sees or knows first hand. If this year’s basketball team was sloppy at times, it also was excellent at times. Excellent as adjudged on a national level—the best there is—not on any limiting basis. The second contribution was probably best seen on the night of the victory over Ohio State, a night on which every student and member of this college community was proud to say he was affiliated with this college. This was a feeling so strong that a discussion on subsidized athletics was even cancelled. That was a night an athletic team brought an academic institution a feeling of self-respect and awareness of identity which it was unaware it possessed. These are a couple of the reasons why I would like to say thank you for this year—a year that, though it ended dismally, contained probably the biggest athletic thrills and achievements ever compiled at this college.

AN ALL-AMERICAN...

Fred Hetzel may have had better shooting nights but he never was better than last Friday night. He was superb. He continually rolled, bumped, and jumped and worked for the ball in an effort to beat VMI. In the process, he scored 41 points, ran through two pivot men, and beat a sagging zone which at times even sagged from the side of the ball. In all, it was a magnificent performance by a basketball player of great talent and a competitor who didn’t want to lose. During this same week, Hetzel was named to the second team on two All-American teams and won the outstanding player award for the tournament. Last week’s performance only emphasized the talent these awards recognized and made more poignant the fact that he will not show the people of Philadelphia nor even New York what he has to offer.

WAS THIS THE ONLY WAY?

In the United States, only two conferences persist in choosing their NCAA representatives via the tournament system—the Southern Conference is one of them. The arguments for and against such an arrangement have been trotted onto the printed page countless times. Briefly, the two principal arguments for a tournament are that it provides an opportunity for a team that starts slowly and develops into a strong team to reap its just reward. The second argument is that it provides a great deal of money for the conference schools. The argument against a tournament is that it nullifies a great season in one night; therefore, it makes a mockery out of regular season play. Coach Bill Reinhart summed up the argument for both defense and prosecution in two statements he made last week. In one statement, he called VMI the best team in the Conference and referred to that team as one that developed late in the season. On the other hand, he readily admitted that he spent the season preparing his team for the tournament. Personally, I feel that the arguments advanced for a tournament are not as strong as those against this setup. Yet, the fact remains that while cash returns remain high, a tournament will be held. I would like to suggest some alternate methods of selection which would prevent a situation in which the Conference was not represented by its best team. One method would be to play an eight-team tournament in which the regular season champion was not included and have a play-off game or three-night series between the conference champion and tournament champion. Another alternative would provide for a play-off game if the Conference Champion and tournament champ were different teams. A third alternative would be to further sub-divide the NCAA districts much like the NAIA districts. In this situation, the Southern Conference Champion, the Atlantic Coast Champion, and either one or two teams with the best records would represent this area. None of the above was meant to be sour grapes but some action is needed to rectify a situation in which a team could go undefeated, be ranked number one in the country, and never represent the conference—if it came down with measles at tournament time.

A QUESTION...

A brief stir of excitement blew through the pines this week when the possibility of an NIT engagement arose. The excitement died along with the possibility. I won’t comment on whether or not this was good, bad, or indifferent. The decision to prohibit participation by Davidson in the NIT was made along the lines of previous conference policy by the men responsible for this policy. Any member of a conference must be necessarily willing to accept such decisions. Davidson has no complaints. As an individual though I can’t

Mills Leads Grapplers In SC Tournament Today BY ED McFARLAND

The Southern Conference Wrestling Tournament, scheduled to be held at Davidson in 1964, began this morning at 9 o'clock with weigh-ins in Johnston Gymnasium. The first set of matches began at 2 o'clock today. Matches are scheduled to be held at 8:00 tonight and 2:00 tomorrow with the finals to be held tomorrow night at 8:00. Five teams, West Virginia, VMI, VPI, The Citadel, and Davidson, have teams participating in the tournament. These are the only schools in the Southern Conference that have teams. According to Davidson's coach Charlie Parker, all of the squads compare favorably with the strongest teams in those conferences. The Big Eight is probably the strongest conference and Oklahoma the nation's leading team this year. The Big Ten and the Eastern are also very strong conferences, probably a bit stronger than the Southern. West Virginia and VPI, the strongest teams, have some good men, but VPI and West Virginia are the strongest all-around teams. Speed, balance, and determination are the qualities needed to win in wrestling. But spectator support, in any sport, plays a role.help wondering why the Conference has adopted this policy in the past. The story on page one outlined some of the reasons. Yet certain questions arise as to why the Missouri Valley Conference is regularly represented in the NIT by a team, while the champion formally represents the conference in the NCAA. And why are the best interests of the conference not served when a conference member is honored by an opportunity to play in this tournament? And as another long season ends, just to prove the work never ends, Coaches Driesell and Hunt are gone—recruiting.

A team that managed in one season to do something that all the Rhodes Scholars, Woodrow Wilsons, and Dean Rusks could not really do in 125 years. A scrappy team and a fiery coach put Davidson College on the map and in the minds of millions of Americans from Columbus, Ohio and Princeton, New Jersey; to Jacksonville, Florida; and Statesboro, Georgia. 

From their first victory, a 98-52 romp over Hampton-Sidney, to their last game, the VMI loss, the ‘Cats were worshipped by a sophisticated campus which often would seem to prefer purgatory or eternal damnation rather than show open admiration for anything. Though they compiled a 22-4 record, the ‘Cats were not always great while doing it. They were unsure, tense, and excited against Wake Forest in their first Coliseum game on December 2 and barely pulled out a 66-53 victory. They were inept little ‘Kittens against Furman in their most humiliating loss of the season, 70-55, last month in Greenville. Yes, the ‘Cats were not always great, but when they were—they played like immortals.

AN ALL AMERICAN... FRED HETZEL of Ohio State? Or who can forget the Princeton team’s comments that ranked Davidson with Kentucky as a top basketball power? How many teams were literally blasted off the court in the first 10 minutes of the game with our ‘patented zone press.’ This basketball team will never be forgotten. Captain Terry Holland was ranked all year among the top players in field goal accuracy, made the second team All-Southern Conference and was the only starting senior on the team. All American Fred Hetzel was second in rebounding in the South Conference, was first in scoring with a 27.3 mark, was second straight year on the All-Southern Conference team, was chosen the most valuable player in the Southern Conference Tournament, etc.

A column could be filled with Hetzel’s conference and school records but he alone was not responsible for the ‘Cats’ success story. Don Davidson, possibly the most underrated player on the team, starred on defense all season and electrified even the most passive fan with his spectacular drives. Dick Snyder, the only starting sophomore, was sometimes sensational, and a rebounder. Like Holland, Snyder also was on the second squad of the All-Southern Conference team. Barry Teague, the only guard in Coach Driesell's double pivot offense, never failed to give it his all: even though he appeared physically exhausted as the regular season closed, he still forced himself to run, drive, and jump for the ball and never failed to give 100%. Charlie Marcon, ‘the sixth starter,’ won at least one game when he stole the ball three straight times from Virginia.

The so-called ‘weak bench’ got better and better as the season progressed. Stone, Beermann, Briggs, Harkness, and Burness usually picked up splinters, but they were sometimes amazingly effective. Coach Driesell was the man most responsible for the success of the squad. A fierce competitor with a fiercer temper, Driesell's color contributed as much as anything to thrusting Davidson into the limelight. The hoped-for miracle of playing in the National Invitational Tournament was prevented by the Southern Conference. Davidson's best season is history now and still the little voice in the background says, ‘Wait ‘til next year.’

IMAC STANDINGS
ATO 10-0
Kappa Sig 9-1
Phi Gam 7-2
Phi Delt 6-2
Sigma Chi 6-4
KA 5-4
SAE 5-5
Independent 3-4
Pika 2-6
Beta F 2-7
Sigma Nu 2-9
Sig Ep 1-8
Pi Kapp 0-6

Junior Mike Bisard, contending in the 137-pound class, had an 8-2 season and was runner-up in last year’s tournament. Captain Billy Mills was undefeated in regular season matches and was fourth in the 167-pound class in the tournament last year. Senior Russell Walls, a heavyweight, was fourth in his class in the tournament last year. The ‘Cats’ Charlie Parker was the recent subject of an article in the Amateur Wrestling News. As one of the 8 new members of the Helms Hall of Fame, Coach Parker joined 81 coaches, contributors, and distinguished wrestlers who have received the distinction. Presentation of the awards to the new members will be made March 26-28 at the NCAA Wrestling Championship finals at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. Each recipient will receive a mounted scroll and a wedge encasing the Helms Athletic Foundation Seal.

Coach Parker is now in his twenty-sixth year as chairman of the NCAA Rules Committee and its editor of the NCAA Wrestling Guide. He was coach of the 1963 team.

The poet has written of ‘... the best laid plans of mice and men’ and their relative uncertainty; such might well come to mind in viewing the recent scheduling collapse of IMAC basketball. It should be no surprise, therefore, to note that last week’s hurriedly compiled basketball standings were slightly in error. From the most reliable of all possible sources, the scorebook, this week’s standings should be correct as listed.

It would appear that the only remaining obstacles between the Taus and a perfect season are the SAE’s and the Independents. Both of these squads hold records which indicate losses to the top half of the league and victories over the bottom 5, but both can be dangerous on a given night. The ATO's, on the other hand, have defeated everyone in the top half of the standings and appear to have the championship sewn up. Only the Kappa Sigs stand a chance to beat out the front runners. They have games remaining with the Phi Delts and Pi Kapps. While the latter contest should provide little trauma for the Sig quintet, the contest with the Delts could be interesting. The Delts, their other remaining games being with the SAE's and Sig Eps, will likely be playing for a share of second place. Their 2 losses came at the hands of the Taus and the Gams. So, the Phi-Delt-Kappa Sig clash will fairly well determine the final standings.

The Sigma Chi's, in fifth place, have lost to everyone above them in the standings and have games remaining with the Pikas and Sig Eps. They appear to have the best of the schedule in their struggle to beat out the KA’s and Independents who also have 4 losses. This, of course, assumes that the rest of the schedule will be played out—a situation which at times appears in doubt.

In the bottom half of the schedule, everything appears fairly solidified. The Sig Ep’s remaining game with the Pi Kapps might well throw 4 teams into a tie for ninth place, leaving the hapless and winless Pi Kapp’s in sole possession of last place.

Dr. Marcus Bloch, L-Hy.
President
Eastern Magical Society
P. O. Box 118
New York 9, N. Y.

THE FUN BEGINS AT ATTIE
‘Just up the road...’

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

1318 W. Morehead
In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the famous OPEN KITCHEN

Charlotte, N. C.

Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

CAN SHIRTMAKERS
BATISTE OXFORD
Cool, crisp batiste oxford in a short-sleeved button-down trim tapered-body. It makes a handsome shirt for summer wearing.
$6.50
Rush Wilson, Ltd.