FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1964

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

The time has come for Davidson to decide where its football program is going—or rather if it is going to continue going nowhere. Davidson is in the midst of its sixth straight losing season, and it is evident that changes are needed. Football scholarships cost $57,026 this year, and that is a lot of money to spend for a program which actually demoralizes the school and alumni more than anything else.

Davidson’s football program is done halfway. We subsidize football, but not enough to compete effectively with Southern Conference members. The scholarship situation isn’t the only thing that keeps us from winning in the conference, but it is the major factor working against us. The football situation should be such that a good season is a good season, not a relatively good season in which we win almost half our games and no conference matches.

Personally, I would like to see the subsidies increased. However, the financial situation should be viewed realistically. The football department is giving this year what amounts to forty full scholarships spread through all four classes. The total amount of money spent on scholarships is, as noted above, $67,026. This figure combines with $19,403 spent on basketball grants to total $86,429, a figure which represents 48.5% of Davidson’s living endowment of $181,339. The money was originally based on a percentage figured in the early 1950s when The Wildcat Club’s fund-raising activities were merged with the college’s living endowment. The club’s share represented 34% of the total, and it was decided that the athletic department would continue to receive 34% of the school’s living endowment. However, full scholarships then cost $1195. Now they cost $1825. The difference in the percentage exists because in figuring the money the athletic department gets, $1195 is divided into the total living endowment and the quotient is the total number of full scholarships that will come from the living endowment. This number is multiplied by the cost of scholarships now to determine the total amount given for athletic grants—$86,429.

It looks to me that there is little hope of increasing financial aid, other than increasing the total living endowment. It’s hard to present a case for giving more than 48.5% of the endowment to athletic scholarships. I think that it would be possible for us to win in the conference with sixty football scholarships. This increase is my preferred alternative to the present situation, but there is no reasonable way to obtain such an increase other than through a substantial overall endowment increase. Nobody opposes an endowment increase, but obtaining a substantial one is easier said than done. The endowment is based on contributions by alumni and other interested parties, and I don’t think that anyone is guilty of letting down in trying to increase it.

If more money is not forthcoming, there are two alternatives left. The first is to play a more realistic schedule, outside of the Southern Conference, and the other is to desubsidize football and play against schools such as Washington and Lee and Sewanee, with similar football policies. By a more realistic schedule, I mean play only schools such as Wofford and the Carolinas Conference members—schools with similar scholarship programs. We've won one of our last eighteen conference games, so it is evident that, with the existing football program, we shouldn’t be competing in the conference. Other conference members evidently agree—they don’t want to play Davidson because nobody is interested in seeing them play us. We could only schedule four conference games this year, and VMI is trying to drop us. It really isn’t fair to other members to play in the conference and not give better representation.

Conference bylaws don’t require a member to play other members in football. They only specify that a member has to field a football team, believe in subsidized athletics, and play five conference games in order to qualify for the championship, a clause which hardly affects Davidson. We can play outside the conference in football and still compete within the conference in other sports, all of which we are generally able to hold our own in. The objection has been raised that such action would lower the quality of football and lessen interest. There is no reason why our football standards would be lowered, and it would hardly lessen interest to win a majority of our games against Lenoir Rhyne, Elon, Wofford, and Newberry, etc. instead of getting beat Saturday after Saturday by VMI, Richmond, and Citadel. Actually, there isn’t much interest left to be lessened. Lehigh and Lafayette are the sort of teams that should be on our schedule, but we can find some closer to home.

The third alternative—desubsidized football—might be the most feasible in the long run. As long as we subsidize basketball, we can stay in the conference according to the rules, which do not require members to have subsidized football, but only to believe in subsidized athletics. Conference members would probably vote on whether or not we would stay in, but because of the asset of our basketball and because most of them don’t want to play us in football, I don’t see why they shouldn’t agree to this setup—however, it should be noted that Commissioner Lloyd Jordan opposes such a move. We could schedule Sewanee, Centre, W & L, and other members of the College Athletic Conference without becoming a member. These schools, which give no athletic scholarships, have similar academic standards and are of comparable size to Davidson. We would win or lose here on our own merits—not on some unequalizing factor such as fewer scholarships. If football scholarships were discontinued, the grants of players presently here on aid would be continued until they graduate, so that nobody would be caught in the transition.

The argument raised here is that many of the players now here on athletic aid could not have afforded to come without the aid. If they had not come on athletic aid, they would have been eligible for general scholarships based on need, as are other students. The financial aid office pays the difference between what a student can pay and the total cost, so this is not a valid argument.

I admit I’m prejudiced in favor of winning, but I'm more prejudiced against losing, especially when it’s costing us $67,000 a year to do it. Football is now a sore spot in the Davidson picture as a whole—its effect is more ill than good. Nobody is enjoying the losing—the students, the alumni, the players, the coaches. Changes are necessary... now.

DOWN KEYDETS CLOSE IN ON Scoreboard Tells Of Bigger Problems

Kappa Sigs Stay Unbeaten In IMAC

By NEVILLE PATTERSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The powerful Kappa Sigs crushed three opponents in this week’s flickerball competition to take over sole possession of first place. They now have a still-spotless 8-0 record. Probably the most important game of the week was the SAE’s upset win over the ATO's. This game dropped the ATO’s from a first place tie and pushed the SAE's standing a few notches higher.

On the first play from scrimmage, Dave Hardeman, ATO tailback, swept around his right end and went all the way to score. Later, Cotton Alston took a short pass from Mike Booe and tied the score. The ATO’s were able to muster only one other scoring thrust and they failed in their extra point attempt. An extra point would have given them the win, but they couldn't manage a score on either attempt. Hunt and Cal Calhoun were instrumental in the Delt win.

Other action saw the Kappa Sigs romp over the Sigma Nus 49-13 and the Pi Kapps 57-0. The Betas won over the Independents 39-17 and the Sigma Nus 25-6. The KA’s won over the Pi Kapps 35-0 and lost to the SAE’s 33-18 and the Pikas 30-25 in a game that is being protested. The SPE’s won over the Pi Kapps 20-7. The Phi Delts crushed the Phi Gams 47-12, and the Sigma Chis rolled by the Gams 38-19. The Independents won their first game when they squeezed by the SPE's 19-13.

Several series of downs later, Al White caught a Booe pass in the end zone and tied the score at 12 all. The SAE’s were also unable to make a PAT and the game went into a modified sudden-death overtime. With the ball placed on the 36-yard line, each team got four plays in which to move the ball. The one with the best yardage would be declared winner. On the ATO’s second play, defender Rob Wright intercepted an over-the-middle pass and gave the SAE's the ball. The ATO defense held for three plays but Neill McBryde managed to hold onto a Paul Brown pass to give the SAE’s enough yardage for the victory.

Later in the week, the ATO’s ended the Betas’ win streak in a nearly evenly matched game. Alternating ATO tailbacks Dave Hardeman and Dave Townsend, calling and then executing a flip-pass series, were able to spread out the strong Beta zone defense and score against it. The ATO's Pat Hubbard took a Hardeman pass to score the first TD. The Betas came back on Jack Sherrill’s passing and scored when Jim Timmons took a Sherrill pass into the end zone. Hubbard then intercepted a Beta pass and threw to teammate Walt Drake for an ATO score, making the game 13-6. Jim Timmons then scored by hanging on to a flair pass from Sherrill, and Albert James did likewise to give the Betas an 18-13 edge. But ATO tailback Townsend found Rick von Unwerth all alone on a long touchdown pass and then hit him again with the winning point-after, making the final score ATO's 19, Betas 18.the Kappa Sigs to victory over the Phi Gams 27-0. Dubose gave his usual outstanding performance, hitting Larry Compton, John McKinley, and Tommy Reams on touchdown passes. Ray Garrison bobbled but was able to hold a long pass from Joe Jelks for the other score. The Phi Delts turned back a determined Pike squad 13-7 in another important contest. A strong, slippery Pika offense, led by John Gresham and Bob O'Kelly, forced the Delts into a man-to-man defense early in the game. Terry O'Hair, Delt tailback, and receivers Ronnie

FLICKERBALLERS FLEE FRIENDLY FOE
Part Of Action in KA-SAE Game

Brakel Scores 9 Goals As Soccer Squad Rolls On
By PAUL MARION
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's soccer team continued its winning ways this week by downing Furman by a 4-1 margin and then humbling Pembroke College 8-1.

VMI Tops Harriers By 25-31

Davidson lost its second cross-country meet of the year Wednesday. Tommy Heffner turned in his best performance of the season in placing first over VMI's 4.2-mile Kerns Creek course. Stated Davidson coach A. H. Whittle, "Heffner ran a magnificent race, and John Barrow (fourth place) and Andy Little (seventh place) also did very well." In spite of the efforts of these three and of Robert Dean (ninth place), Jesse Sims (tenth place), Denny Phillips (eleventh place), and Ronnie Reese (twelfth place), the Wildcats wound up on the losing end of a 23-31 score. Coach Whittle commented, "We had some tough luck in that Dean's new shoes gave him a great deal of trouble. If he had placed as he usually does, we would have tied or beaten VMI."

PAGE FIVE

Heckardless Wildcats
By SAM BOYTE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s Wildcats return to Richardson Field tomorrow afternoon at 2 to take on the Purple Paladins of Furman in hope of bettering their 1-4 season mark. Both teams will be hungry for a win after poor showings against soldier boys last week. Davidson lost a 35-0 fumbling fiasco to Virginia Military Institute, and The Citadel stampeded the Horses with a 17-0 defeat. The Paladins' loss left them with a record of 2-5 for the season.

Davidson will be without the services of its star quarterback Steve Heckard, who is in the infirmary fighting a case of the flu. George Jacobsen, a 5-10, 165-pound sophomore from Greensboro, will start in his place. Coach Tom Stevens, who scouted the Furman-Citadel game says, "They're dangerous. They've got pretty good speed, and they're a pretty good ball club. They just haven’t won many ball games. Citadel just played real well defensively, seeming to stop them. Furman didn’t get that critical third or fourth down. In another game, they might."

Ernie Zuberer, Furman’s six-foot, 190-pound senior fullback and captain of the team received praise from Dole as a "fine fullback, one of the best in the conference, a real good football player." Coach Stevens rated Zuberer, "an awfully good runner." Other Paladins to watch are quarterbacks Sammy Wyche and Doug Watkins. Wyche and Watkins are both big, tall juniors at 6-3, 190 pounds and 6-4, 200 pounds respectively. Targets for the quarterback will be Tim Crawford and Bill Carty, whom Stevens described as "good offensive ends." Crawford was the only letterman returning to end this year, and Carty, a sophomore, is one of the largest men on the team at 6-4, 220 pounds.

Dole will continue trying to bolster defensive end by playing former fullback Pat Fisher at right end. The opposite end will be played by Pack Hindsley. Coach Bob King’s Purple Paladins, who have suffered from a lack of seasoned starters this year, have been unable to match their showing of last year when they amassed a 7-3 mark. Conference games have left them winless, but the Lavender Losers pinned a solid defeat on a Presbyterian College squad that was fresh from a 13-0 victory over Davidson. Other than the PC game the records of both teams have been the same against common opponents this season. Both defeated the Choctaws of Mississippi College, and both have fallen to defeat at the hands of The Citadel.

Furman has also lost to Clemson 28-0, to Wofford 21-14, to George Washington 34-14, and to William and Mary 21-14. Davidson has a solid fifteen-year losing streak against Furman, having lost every game in the series since 1948. When asked about the possibilities for this Saturday, Dole imparted this bit of homespun philosophy: "You don't talk about the outcome of ball games before they're played."

Red And Black Machine Falls To Winless VMI
By PALMER KIRKPATRICK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

"When you look at the film, you couldn’t believe that we got beat that bad." These were the words of Coach Bill Dole after the VMI game in which the 'Cats were trimmed 35-0. "When you consider that a team only has the ball about eleven times in a regular game, losing the ball five of these times on fumbles can make quite a difference," explained Dole. Davidson fumbled seven times, losing the ball on five of these miscues. The Keydets’ fullback Granny Amos scored two of the VMI touchdowns on runs of one and six yards, but many others had a hand in the rout. The Keydets scored in every period, leading 21-0 at the half and increasing their lead after intermission.

Despite a harassing VMI defense, Davidson quarterback Steve Heckard was able to complete 7 of 18 passes. "We were not able to take advantage of our smooth running offense because we made too many small mistakes, such as on punts and in handling the ball." The first time Davidson got the ball, the 'Cats went 56 yards before being stopped on the VMI 4. Just before intermission, the Red and Black machine reached the 32, but four passes fell incomplete.

In the opening quarter, a 23-yard punt return by Mike Patterson set up VMI's first touchdown. This put the ball on Davidson's 17 and six plays thereafter Amos plowed over from the one. A 29-yard return by Patterson gave VMI the ball on the Davidson 49 midway in the second period and, with Charlie Snead’s 10-yard pass to Joe Bush, VMI promptly moved ahead 13-0 on Tom Slater's two-yard plunge. A Wildcat fumble on the Davidson 36 enabled VMI to move to a third touchdown, which came on Amos’ six-yard run before halftime. In the second half the Keydets put on scoring drives of 8 and 47 yards, with Snead passing 16 yards to Bush for one touchdown and Butch Whitt getting the other on a one-yard plunge up the middle.

Frosh Footballers Drub Citadel Baby Cadets 10-0

The frosh football squad added another game to its win column as the yearlings shut out The Citadel 10-0 last Friday at Charleston. The Wildkittens were heavily outnumbered in reserves, but put forth their best team effort of the season to down the Cadets and boost their record to 2-1. Capitalizing on errors in what was mostly a defensive battle, the Wildkittens simply outplayed and outguessed the Bullpuppies. Their first scoring opportunity came after recovering a Citadel fumble early in the first period. A series of running plays brought the Kittens within scoring distance, and Billy Taylor connected with halfback Dick Lindsey for the first and only touchdown of the encounter.

The game remained a defensive battle throughout the second quarter and most of the third. The Kittens got another break on a Citadel error late in the third quarter, however. A bad snap from center on a punting situation gave Davidson the ball in Cadet territory. The Kittens marched to the Citadel eleven, where Glidewell was again called on to use his toe on fourth down. Glidewell squeezed a bad-angle field goal through the uprights. Neither team threatened again, and the final score was 10-0.

Gentlemen, See Our Fine Selections In Authentic Natural Shoulder Clothing From Our Sandgate and Botany 500 Collections. The New Medium Shade Colorings in Sharkskins, Herringbones, and Hopsacks. Some With Vests 39.95 to 75.00. There Is No Substitute For Style and Quality. Charge Accounts Invited.

Home Of Famous Brands
John Mack & Son
Our 52nd Year
Open Friday Nights