PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

To Capture First Win

By MIKE MOOTY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Wildcats of Davidson invaded Charlotte Tuesday night to snatch the season opener from a scrappy Wake Forest team. Nearly 11,000 partisan fans packed the Coliseum to see the Cats down the Deacons 95-88.

Davidson, ranked third in the UPI preseason poll, got off to an agonizingly slow start, trailing 17-7 after six minutes of play. Although the sagging zone defense employed by the Deacons never kept the Wildcats from getting good shots, Lefty's boys couldn't find the basket in the opening minutes. After spotting the Deacons 10 points, however, the Wildcats stormed back to outscore the men in gold 12-3 before Captain Fred Hetzel pumped in a 10-footer that put the Cats ahead to stay. When the half-time buzzer sounded, the Red and Black were out in front 45-34, and it looked like the game was all over.

The second half saw Davidson methodically staving off several determined surges by the Deacons. The Cats climbed to their biggest lead of the evening when Hetzel, Charlie Marcon, and Dick Snyder hit three back-to-back to make the score 78-61 with seven minutes left in the game. Marcon then fouled out, and was followed shortly by Hetzel and Snyder. Ronnie Stone, Phil Squier, and Paul Briggs came off the bench to put down a last-minute Deacon bid, Stone pumping in six and Briggs five in the final minutes. Davidson's offense, after breaking the opening ice, could not be stopped. The defense, however, was another story.

(Staff Photo by Thel)
SNYDER LAYS IT IN
All Alone Against Wake

Driesell Readies Roundballers

By SAM BOYTE
Davidson Sports Writer

“He’s probably the hardest working coach in the profession today.” That is the tribute paid to Davidson's basketball coach Charles (Lefty) Driesell by Athletic Director Tom Scott. Dr. Scott went on to say, “He has no clocked working hours. I don’t know when he sleeps. He seems to be always on the go.” There’s no doubt that Driesell is a busy man when one sees him moving about Johnson Gymnasium. There’s no slow ambling along. He’s in a hurry, but there’s no sense of nervous frustration. Coaching basketball is a job that he knows, and he does it well. His lifetime coaching record is 162-51. Scott was right about Driesell being “always on the go,” but he was also right to add, “He's very efficient.”

Driesell is a big, well-built man whose 6'3” frame is topped by thinning dark hair. His wide shoulders support a friendly face punctuated by intelligent eyes and a helpful smile. There's nothing of the hulking monster about this man despite his size. The only people he cares to terrify are his basketball opponents, and his teams do a terrific job of that. He is a confident man whose very presence is encouraging. It is a theory of his that a team is in the game to win, and one feels that maybe that is one reason his teams do just that.

A LONG TIME WINNER

Driesell is no stranger to winning basketball. He was captain of the Granby High School team that won the Virginia state championship in 1950. It was a Cinderella tournament that saw eighth-seeded Granby surprise everyone. “We shouldn't even have been in the tournament,” chuckled Driesell. Even then he saw the benefits from recruiting as the team won on the strength of a boy “recruited ... from a pool room who was 6'8”.”

He was graduated from Duke where he played basketball under Coach Harold Bradley and was a forward on the Blue Devil team that won the 1954 Classic. For the next two years while working with Ford Motor Company, he played semi-pro basketball. The T-Model Terror won the distinction from newspapers of having a “golden arm” for his play in this league. His fame on the court was boosted somewhat by his compiling a 35-point scoring average.

In 1956 he felt the call to enter coaching. He returned to his high school alma mater and as a teacher-coach he led the junior varsity to an 18-4 season. This included a 13-game winning streak. The next year he moved up to the varsity which had won only three games during the previous season. Under his direction, Granby posted a 15-3 mark for the year.

NEWPORT NEWS DAYS

Newport News High School then issued the bid, and he took the helm of a team which had a 21-game streak going for them. Driesell proceeded to pilot the high-schoolers to 36 more victories over the next two seasons before losing by two overtime points late in the 1958 season. This produced a 25-0 season in 1957 making Newport News the only school ever to complete an undefeated season among the Virginia Class 1 schools. The mark of 57 consecutive wins is also a record.

During the year after his 33-0 season, the team lost only two games, both of them to the same school, Woodrow Wilson High School. After another winning season at Newport News, Driesell came to Davidson in 1961 to replace retiring coach Tom Scott. Once again, it was a school connected with Woodrow Wilson that brought a halt to Driesell's winning ways. The 9-14 season in his first year at Davidson gave him his only losing season as a coach.

Before Driesell came, however, the Wildcats had been a consistent seventh or eighth place finisher in the Southern Conference. He began to mold them into a feared power. His first game was a victory over nationally-ranked Wake Forest. Needless to say, this was something of an upset. As in another season, that first year saw giant-killer Davidson fall to a smaller school, for the Baptismal drowning was followed the next week by a loss to Catawba College.

Driesell brought to Davidson a desire to win and a good organization. He believes in honest play but not in fielding a varsity team so that the boys will get the exercise. In talking to him one feels that he does not want a small-time victory. He is not concerned with patsy schools. When he talks about college basketball, he talks about UCLA, the Cincinnati team of the turn of the decade, and of course Davidson.

DEFENSE VITAL

For his teams he puts his emphasis on containing the other team. “I've always based my philosophy of coaching on defense. I think it's what has enabled us to be fairly successful. Most kids nowadays know how to shoot, but not all know their defense. Every team that has been great has been strong on defense. Look at Cincinnati or UCLA.” It was said of his high school players that they ran to the scorekeeper's table after every game like most other boys. The difference was that Driesell’s players did not ask how many points they got themselves but how many did their man get.

Along with a desire to win and an emphasis on defense, Driesell brought an extensive recruiting effort to Davidson. Said Dr. Scott, “No trip is too long, no boy is too far away to look into as a prospect. Furthermore, it’s more than just finding five basketball players: it’s finding the right kind. With Hetzel leaving this year, we needed height so he went after some and got 6'8” and 6'10” boys.

“First of all,” says Driesell, “you've got to get a lot of boys interested. It’s like any other selling job—the more people you see, the better chance you've got.” Davidson's academic standards are an extra attraction for prospective players. “A real good education is the primary thing I try to sell them. A lot of schools have a good basketball team, but I don't think there’s a school in the country that can match our combination of academics and athletics.”Game, Coach Lefty Driesell replied, "Overall, our offense looked good, but our defense left a lot to be desired." When asked to elaborate, he replied, "It (the defense) stunk." He attributed the defensive lapse to basic fundamental mistakes. Driesell’s analysis was substantiated when examination of the statistics revealed that Wake Forest had taken 45 shots in the second half to Davidson’s 36. The Cats, however, hit 58 percent of their attempts from the field to 47 percent for the Deacons. Driesell commented on the fine performance turned in by Don Davidson and Fred Hetzel. "I thought that Hetzel looked especially good the first half," he stated. Hetzel was high point man for the Wildcats with 28, followed by Snyder with 21 and Davidson with 20.

"Driesell’s first recruit was last year’s team captain Terry Holland who finished fourth in the nation in field goal percentages with 63.1 percent. As the Delights a la Driesell began to rise to the varsity squad, Davidson began to win. His second year with the Wildcats produced a 14-10 mark and the record has improved each season since. Last year he led the ‘Cats as high as third in the national ranking and finished tenth in the nation for the year and second in the conference with a 20-4 season. For the improvement he has inspired, Driesell has twice been named Southern Conference Coach of the Year."

"Cats Toy With Wakies"

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1964

(Staff Photo by Thel)

TEAGUE TACKLED IN TUESDAY’S ACTION

Hangs On To The Ball

Hetzel Holds Wildcat Hopes

By NEVILLE PATTERSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

A nationally-publicized basketball magazine said in a recent article that Fred Hetzel is Davidson’s most famous alumnus since Dean Rusk. Hetzel has been praised, prophesied about, and statistically analyzed by every magazine that pretends to take an interest in athletics. State and regional newspapers have interviewed, photographed, and applauded him on their front pages as well as in their traditional sports sections. Davidson's Publicity and Athletic Departments have prepared a recruiting folder for Coach Lefty Driesell to send out by the thousands. This pamphlet, describing the basketball team and the school in general, devotes two-thirds of a page to just listing Hetzel's basketball honors and records.

SPECTACULARLY UNSPECTACULAR

Last fall, Hetzel was described as being a spectacularly unspectacular ball player, because he scored his twenty-five points with such smoothness that one didn't realize he had been putting out a great effort. This was explained by Coach Driesell’s comments on Hetzel. "Fred is an unselfish ball player. He averages only nineteen shots a game, and during the last two years, I’ve seen him take no more than two or three bad shots. He is a team ball player and passes the ball off rather than try to raise his average with a risky shot." To attest to Hetzel’s smooth, capable play, Driesell offered, "We keep a record posted of the mistakes that the players make in scrimmage. Fred is making fewer than any of the rest."

When asked to remember the worst defeat in his basketball career he replied, "When I was a senior in prep school, I played in the B'nai B'rith Tournament in Allentown, Penn. I was assigned to guard a guy by the name of Charles Marcon. Being slower than he was, I couldn’t keep up with him. He scored 27 points and had the best night of his high school career." Hetzel’s roommate, Charlie Marcon, just smiled.

BIGGEST WIN

Hetzel considers the 1962 win over Duke to be his sweetest victory. He said that he feels being picked this year as a preseason choice for All-American is his greatest honor. When asked who the best player he had played against was he limited his answer to those men he has actually guarded. "I guess the best men I’ve guarded were in the East-West Game and in the Olympic Trials. They would have to be Lucious Jackson and Jim ‘Bad News’ Barnes."

Concerning his future, Hetzel commented, "I'd like to play some pro ball if the pros are interested in me. It would be a great challenge to play in the pros, and I'd like to try. After that, I'll probably go into business. I’m majoring in social science now and obviously I couldn't be an English professor."

(Staff Photo by Thel)

HETZEL HITS FOR TWO

More Action Against The Baptists

"GOCA-COLA" AND "COKE" ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS WHICH IDENTIFY ONLY THE PRODUCT OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY.

Studies piling up? Pause. Have a Coke. Coca-Cola — with a lively lift and never too sweet, refreshes best.

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by: THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

Cagers Set To Face St. Joe And Paladins

By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson Wildcats, ranked no lower than fourth nationally on anyone’s poll, journey to Philadelphia tomorrow night for an intersectional basketball game with St. Joseph’s (Pa.) at Philadelphia’s famed Palestra. Game time is 7:30 P.M. (The game will be broadcast over WBT and televised over WSOC-TV in Charlotte.) St. Joseph's, ranked as high as 15 on some preseason polls, was considered by many experts to have the best team in the East last year. They advanced to the quarterfinals of the National Invitational Tournament before losing by two points to the eventual champion Bradley University. Leading the Hawks this year are Juniors Tom Duff (6-5) and Marty Ford (6-6). Backcourt duties are shared by lettermen Billy Oakes and Ed Walsh. Transfer Matt Guokas from Miami is said to be the most promising newcomer on the St. Joseph's squad.

Davidson will be making their second appearance of the current season, fresh from a 95-88 victory over Wake Forest last Tuesday night at the Charlotte Coliseum. St. Joseph’s will also be making their second showing after opening their season on Tuesday against Fairfield.

This Tuesday night, Davidson seeks to avenge last year's 70-55 upset defeat at the hands of the Purple Paladins from Furman University. It will also mark the Wildcats’ second attempt to win their fifth game against Furman in 22 tries since the 1953-54 season. Furman has three returning letterman starters from last year's team which had an 11-15 record. Forward David Selvy, brother of former All-American and present assistant coach Frank Selvy, led Furman scorers with an average of 15 points per game last year. Forward Les Heider averaged 11.6 last year. Both Selvy and Heider are 6-2.

After the Basketball Game Meet Your Friends At The GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. Independence at Wilkinson Blvd. Charlotte While enjoying the BEST in PIZZA and SPAGHETTI GO ’CATS!

Frosh Down Wingate In Season’s Opener

The Davidson Freshman basketball squad opened their season with a 75-59 win over Wingate Junior College in the preliminary game at Charlotte Coliseum Tuesday night. The Kittens, believed by many to be the best frosh squad ever assembled at Davidson, lived up to their reputation in a decisive team effort, in which everyone on the squad saw action. Rod Knowles led the Kittens in scoring with 15 points and also pulled down 8 rebounds. 6’ 11" Tom Youngdale was high man on the boards with 10 rebounds and added a 14-point scoring effort. Bobby Lane and playmaker Cecil Clifton each scored 14 points, and Scott Sinnock totaled 12 points and 6 rebounds. Substitutes Pinky Hatcher and George Leight had 2 points and 4 rebounds and 4 points and 5 rebounds, respectively.

Coach Terry Holland, in commenting after the game, said, "We played well, and I was pleased with the boys, although we did slow up at the last of the game. I'm afraid we were looking ahead to our one with Duke." The Wildkittens meet the Duke frosh in Durham Saturday night.