THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1964

Side Lights BY RICK LOWERY

“NEVER IN GREENVILLE” SATURDAY NIGHT

The above 12 inches could have been filled with just about anything; however, this is Thursday night at about 1:00
and I cannot find anything to say communicative. But I will be in Durham Saturday and I will be proud
to be there. And if any of our readers are interested in reading about accomplishments, please note the following.

FAME AND HORATIO ALGER...

On February 6, Coach Charlie Parker—a Davidson institution after his 26 years with Wildcat athletics—was named to the Helms Hall
Amateur Wrestling Hall of Fame. The roster of the organization includes a total of 81 distinguished wrestlers, coaches, and contributors
to the sport. In receiving the award, Parker adds to an impressive list of credentials which he has accumulated over
his career. He is past chairman of the N.C.A.A. Rules Committee; is in his fourth year as editor of the
N.C.A.A. Wrestling Guide; was Coach of the 1963 U.S. Olympic and National A.A.U. Wrestling Committees; and is a certified international
referee and judge. Looking back over a long and successful career, Coach Parker ranked his selection by the Helms Foundation
along with being named coach of the U.S. Pan-American team last year as “my biggest thrills in sports.”

“Wrestling consists of 60 percent desire and 40 percent conditioning,” said Parker, “But new techniques are important too. I couldn’t
even make the team now if I wrestled like I did in college.” Parker joins a select group of 32
coaches who have been enshrined in the Hall of Fame. From his own viewpoint he had jokingly estimated it would
take “50 years at least” to receive the honor. It has been over a quarter of a century since Coach
Parker came to Davidson, but his formula for winning hasn’t changed. He noted, “You’ve got to have extra desire, this
little something extra. Wrestling is the oldest sport in the world, and it’s just natural for one man to want
to beat another.”

LEFTY YELLS STOP; Joe Hunt looks on with open mouth. But the ‘Cats drop their second game of the season
to Furman on “Selvy Night” in Greenville, 70-55.

’Cats Drop Second, Prep For Blue Devils BY JOHNNY CLARK

Furman’s Purple Paladins, playing before 6,000 frenzied home court fans last night, caught the Wildcats of Davidson looking ahead to
Saturday night's encounter with Duke and mauled the fourth-ranked ‘Cats 70-55, combining a spirited effort with probably the worst Davidson
effort in two years for what Paladin coach Lyles Alley termed “one of our greatest victories of all time.”

Thus tomorrow night's encounter with the fifth-ranked Blue Devils of Duke, although it will still provide a duel between two
nationally ranked teams and two All-Americans in Fred Hetzel and Jeff Mullins, is now tainted with a somewhat anti-climactic nature
after Furman’s surprising victory. The contest, formerly billed as a battle between North Carolina's basketball titans, will be played at
8:30 before a full house in Duke Indoor Stadium, a commercial TV audience in the Raleigh and Greensboro areas, and
a closed-circuit TV audience in Davidson.

Coach Lefty Driesell, fresh from a 70-48 victory over Georgia Southern Friday night and an easy 95-67 conquest of Richmond
Tuesday night, saw his team in Greenville could do no right, hitting a miserable percentage of their field goals, missing
12 of 27 free throws, committing numerous ball handling errors, and fouling the Paladins 18 times, 15 in the last
half. With Fred Hetzel and Teague leading the way, Davidson jumped to an early 14-4 lead.

Taus And Sigs Continue As Pacesetters In IMAC BY DAVID POWELL

With the IMAC basketball season almost half over, the Kappa Sigs maintain their hold on first place in the overall
race, a lead they have held throughout the season. Undefeated through five games, the Sigs are tied with the ATO’s.
The real threat to the Sigs, however, is the Phi Gam squad; not only are the Fijis holding onto a
close third place in the basketball standings, they are also running a tight third in the overall standings. Should the
Kappa Sigs falter, the Phi Gams could easily move up.

This year, the basketball league is composed of several strong, closely-matched teams and several weak ones. Some six teams are
still very much in the running for the championship, while almost as many are completely out of it. The Sigs
yet have to play four of the five teams which threaten their lead. Only last Monday, they had to go
into overtime before downing the Independents, 72-66. And with the scrappy ATO’s, the Sigs may have more than they bargained
for. Little Dave Orr and Pat Hubbard team with rangy Rufus Adair to provide a winning combination.

The Phi Gams, holding two of the league's single game high scorers in Jerry Trammell and Jimmy Hyder, pose almost
as big a threat to the league leaders. Except for Trammell’s 23, it was a cold night when they met
the ATO's; they have since rebounded to win two straight. The KA's and the Phi Delts are still in the
race, both tied for fourth place. John Barrow’s hot shooting and Phil Squier’s shooting and ball handling have been big
factors in keeping the Delts in the thick of the competition.

Davidson's Hetzel, who had crammed in 54 points in his last two games, managed but 16 points, tying his low
output of the year. He was followed by Dick Snyder's 10, 8 from Barry Teague, and 6 from Terry Holland.
Friday, Davidson was the ‘Eagle bait’ that the Georgia Southern support pulled from. The Paladins, playing an inspired game on
Frank Selvy Night, were not to be denied and fought their way back to a 29-27 halftime advantage. Davidson momentarily
rallied at the beginning of the second half, gaining a 33-32 edge, but the Paladins never let go. The game
played on fairly even terms until the last short sharp minute when Furman pulled away to a 70-55 victory.

With Fred Hetzel in the infirmary, Dick Snyder pulled off the lead for Davidson, hitting 64.3% of their field attempts.
They managed 52.4% but Georgia Southern went all out and the ‘Cats went out of reach.Here is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

In the second half, Richmond seemed to have discarded any hope of winning, as it froze trailing over 20 points
and seemed to be merely trying to hold their loss margin down. Driesell’s roundballers cooled off from their 70.67 field
goal percentage of the first half, but still finished with Hetzel and Snyder again providing the Davidson scoring punch, bucketing
24 points each. Richmond’s John Telepo and Tom Tenwick scored 49 points together but received little help from their seemingly
inept teammates. Don Davidson with 17 points and Terry Holland with 13 contributed adequate support. The high-scoring duo and the
formidable play of Barry Teague rebounded the Spiders 40-23 and upped the Davidson record to 19 wins and 1 loss.

A successful field goal from the top of the key by a Furman substitute as the buzzer sounded provided an
appropriate finale for the contest. After the game, Alley made two of perhaps the biggest understatements of the season, brightly
observing that “our boys might have scuffled a shade harder than Davidson” and that “the ball just didn’t drop their
way.”

In the IMAC basketball league, the Kappa Sigs and Phi Gams are still vying for the top spot, with several
key games yet to be played, including the final game pitting the Kappa Sigs against the Phi Gams.

IMAC BASKETBALL
Kappa Sig 5-0
ATO 5-0
Phi Gam 4-1
KA 3-1
Phi Delt 3-1
SAE 4-3
Sigma Chi 4-3
Beta 1-4
SPE 1-5
Pi Kapp 0-4
Sigma Nu 0-6

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a meal. The famous OPEN KITCHEN is located at 1318
W. Morehead, Charlotte, N.C.

In the RAT LEAGUE of IMAC basketball games, it’s the Skins (Independents) vs. Shirts (Kappa Sigs). Here Benny Coxton lunges
for the ball as Buddy Dubose and Howard Arbuckle stand in frozen wonder. (Photo by Smith)

ECONOMICS CAN BE CHUCKLES
Many of you have been avoiding economics because it is so widely known as “the dismal science.” Oh, good friends,
stop cheating yourselves of many a laugh and cheer, because economics is a positive riot! True, it is called the
dismal science, but that is only because it was invented in 1681 by Walter C. Dismal. It is easy to
understand why Mr. Dismal’s discovery of economics is today almost forgotten, for the fact is that he himself only stayed
with the subject for two or three days. After that, he took up embonpoint, which means fatness. It is said
that at his apogee, Mr. Dismal reached 1200 pounds. This later became known as Guy Fawkes Day.

It was not until 1776 when Adam Smith published his Wealth of Nations (or Ozymandias, as it is usually known)
that the world came to realize what a rosy, twinkly, fun subject economics is. As Mr. Smith showed in his
jocular little treatise, there is nothing complicated about economics. When there is a great demand for a product, a great
supply is placed on the market. When there is a small demand, there is a small supply. Take, for example,
castanets. You walk into any average American town today and I’ll wager you won’t find more than eighty or ninety
castanet shops. That is because the demand is small. For Marlboro Cigarettes, on the other hand, the demand is great.
Thus, you will find Marlboros—with all their rich tobacco flavor and pure white Selectrate filter and pliable soft pack and
unpliable Flip-Top box—at any counter where cigarettes are sold in every one of our fifty great States and Duluth.

To Adam Smith, I say, belongs the distinction of popularizing economics. Mr. Smith was followed by David Ricardo. In fact,
everywhere he went he was followed by David Ricardo. Mr. Smith finally got so annoyed that he summoned a bobby,
as British policemen are called, and had Mr. Ricardo arrested. This later became known as the Louisiana Purchase. Upon his
release from gaol, as a British jail is called, Mr. Ricardo reported to his parole officer, Thomas Robert Malthus. They
soon became fast friends, and one night over a game of whist they invented the stock exchange, or chutney, as
it is called in England.

Well sir, with the British having, you might say, a corner on economics, the French decided that they wanted some
economics too. Being, however, a proud nation, they refused simply to borrow British economics, but insisted on inventing their own.
At first, they tried using the truffle hound as a medium of exchange. When this proved less than satisfactory, they
switched to pomade. Discouraged by this second disappointment, they finally shrugged and said, “Oh, who cares about economics anyhow?” and
returned to the guillotine and Maurice Chevalier.

America, I am pleased to report, had much better success with economics. Our early merchants quickly broke down economics into
its two major categories—coins and folding money—and today, as a result of their wisdom, we can all enjoy the automatic
toll station.

Well sir, I could go on and on about this fascinating subject, but I know you're all in a tearing
hurry to rush out and sign up for Econ I. So I will leave you now with two kindly words
of farewell: Gresham’s Law.

We, the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, are tobacconists, not economists. But this much we know about supply and demand: you
demand full flavor in a filter cigarette; we supply it—Marlboro!

TEAM
fight... fight... fight... give 'em the ax... the ax... the ax... hold that line... fight... fight... fight...

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, Concord, N.C.
