The Davidsonian

ME NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Why?

Rumors about the Faculty’s Tuesday action quickly weaved their distorted way along the campus grapevine. And with each repetition came
the misunderstanding that accompanies any rumor.

In order for the faculty action and its implications to be understood, one must look further.

Study leading to the action was initiated at the request of three concerned student leaders. By discerning the motivation of
the student representatives as expressed in a November 10 statement to the faculty, we can best understand the bases on
which the change has been made:

“In recent years, we have been cognizant of an increasing amount of drinking on campus. A recent poll of a
large portion of the student body apparently confirms our suspicions. There is definitely an upward trend in the number of
students who drink, and, consequently, of those who bring alcoholic beverages onto the campus.

“At the present, the regulations make no distinction between storing a bottle of liquor in the trunk of an automobile
and hosting a cocktail party in a dormitory. Consequently, many students are taking liquor to their rooms: ‘The penalty is
just as severe there as anywhere else.’”

Greek Evaluation

The Fraternity Evaluation Committee is rolling. Last night Jackson’s committee defined its aim and stepped into the ring to face
the mammoth task. Are fraternities serving the needs of Davidson College and its students; and, are there specific steps that
could be taken to better serve these needs?

The committee’s goal is to ferret out the answer to this broad question. The initial approach will be to determine
the shortcomings of the current system in terms of the individual student’s needs and in light of Davidson's goals.

The answer will come from individuals within the community — students, faculty, administration. Progress toward the answer will depend on
the willingness of everyone connected with the Davidson situation to respond vitally to a vital inquiry.

Questionnaires are being drafted to extend the inquiry into areas related to but outside the current Davidson. Returns from these
polls should provide perspective to the investigation. But the problem is ours, and the real meat for the committee’s consideration
and digestion must be home-grown and dynamically involved in today’s Davidson.

Students, faculty and members of the administration will be urged to contribute to the pool of information and opinion which
the committee will evaluate. Everyone concerned is openly invited to consider the issue. The committee requests that sincere concern be
expressed in the form of a 500-word opinion, to be submitted to the committee by anyone who cares. The statements
will be examined, and the committee will interview representative voices on all sides within a basic framework of questions.

The committee — established for our benefit — is soliciting our active concern. We owe them an opinion.

University In Turmoil

Clark Kerr’s words of last year must be ringing in his ears today. Speaking of the development of the university
into the “multiversity,” he said: “There are more elements to be conciliated; fewer in a position to be led.”

Dr. Kerr is a long acknowledged expert in arbitration between industry and labor. But this fall he has been unable
to heal the breaches among administration, faculty, and students at the multiversity he heads, the University of California. The turmoil
on its campus says something not only about the present student generation but about the learning conditions with which they
are confronted in the multiversity, as Dr. Kerr describes it: “As a new type of institution, it is not really
private and not really public; it is neither entirely of the world nor entirely apart from it.”

The tangled issues at Berkeley involve how far students should be permitted to become “of the world” in political activities
while they are voluntary members of an academic community. We understand how students might idealistically — or calculatingly — ask
for such freedom as part of the right of free speech. But the constitutional test does not reasonably apply in
these circumstances.

The United States National Student Association comes closer to a contemporary solution of the multiversity private-public question when it suggests
that “the state, not the university, should determine whether off-campus action planned by students is unlawful; the university should only
regulate the orderly functioning of campus affairs, and not place students in a position of double jeopardy.”

But, unless the already weakening concept of the university as a community is to break down completely, we feel that
students should feel a responsibility to their university even when off campus, observing appropriate regulations for the health of that
community. When they step off the campus they do not suddenly cease to be members of the group they have
chosen to join.

Americans deplored the earlier “silent” generation, the uncommitted young people who busied themselves about their own concerns. The student demonstrations
at Berkeley — like those at Saigon and points east and west — have had irresponsible elements within them. But
they have also shown evidence of student interest in causes beyond themselves. It would be ironic to stifle a turn
away from selfish, uncommitted silence.

Somehow the necessary enforcement of discipline should not have the appearance of — or, in fact, be — a suppression
of protest out of keeping with its magnitude. As Dr. Kerr recognized when police dragged a student leader away from
a microphone, “There is no question this episode makes — at least immediately — these efforts (to settle the dispute)
less effective...”

As another university president, Nathan Pusey of Harvard, said at President Kerr's inauguration a few years ago, “warmth, sanity, and
vigor can come into scholarship from close contact with the activities and aspirations of daily life.” We need to understand
Dr. Kerr, as well as his students, in their painful efforts to define and rightly use this contact in the
day of the multiversity.

—The Christian Science Monitor

Associate Editors Jim Downey Charles Ramberg Rick von Unwerth Tim Kimrey John Todd Mike Harrington

Asst. Managing Editor John Bailey

News Editor Rufus Adair

Managing Editors Bob Strauser Johnny Clark Bill Briggs Malcolm Lane

Feature Editor Sports Editor Assistant Sports Editor Circulation Manager

Copy Editor Don Davis

Asst. Copy Editors Bill Aitken Calvin Zon

Photographers Sam Smith Tom Thel Erskine Sproul

Cartoonists Jack Lingle Rufus Hallmark Lou Hill

Asst. Business Mgr. Irvine Welling

Advertising Mgr. Bob Cameron

Contributors this week: Dick Spencer, Ted Glusman, Heyward Carter, Charles Vick, M. L. Cannon, Louis Lesesne, Harry Carr, Mike Bates,
Billy Farr, Bob Holladay, Jim Morawetz, Paul Monk, Ed Maxwell, Doug Maxwell, Tim Rothermel, David Coffee, Bob Vance, Frank Fleming,
Bob Howard, Jamie Bryant, Steve Brown, Dan Tyler, Larry Norfleet, Sam Boyte, Mike Mooty, Tom Cook, and Paul Marion.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Through The Sand Slightly...

ADMINISTRATION AND INDEPENDENT CRITICISM OF FRATERNITIES

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Martin Takes Aim Again At ‘Defenseless Greeks’

Dear Editor,

It is a popular practice of Davidson students to castigate the trustees and the administration. Their seeming slothfulness in the
face of what we see are pressing needs makes them, we think, fair game for our barbs. There is a
great discrepancy in our conception of these two groups and our conception of ourselves, the former coming in a very
poor second.

We take pride in our ability to get right to the heart of an issue, weighing and testing, rejecting the
bad and retaining the good. In most cases, this is precisely what we would do if only it were in
our power — or so we say. We would eliminate required church service. We would repeal the faculty oath. We
would enlarge the library and add a new wing to the gym.

Very clearly, we are an extremely progressive, forward-looking lot. Our very nature, our quick minds, our youth make us so.

“METTERNICHS”

There is one issue, however, more important to the future of Davidson College than any so far discussed. But when
it comes to even talking about measures to eliminate the inequities, the exclusiveness, the unfairness, the snobbishness, the childishness, and
the basic falseness of the present social system at Davidson, the attitude of most students would, by comparison, make Prince
Metternich look like a flaming, wild-eyed liberal.

I am tired of being agreed with. My first letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN was as vicious an attack on the
fraternity system as I could, in good taste, formulate at that time. Yet all I have received from the fraternity
men is either agreement or complacent silence. Won't someone come and punch me in the nose, at least? It would
be easier for me to fight that than the repeated statement, “You're right about our present system, but...” Then what
follows is a brief retort which can be summarized: “the force of inertia around here is greater than the force
of argument.”

In all fairness, there is more to the fraternity argument than that. Since not one of their representatives has yet
come forth to articulate it, I will try to do so, in so far as I understand it. It goes...ARGUMENT

“The position of Davidson is unique. It is the only liberal arts school of a thousand men supported by the
Presbyterian Church located twenty miles from Charlotte and six miles from Mooresville. Because its circumstances are unique, it must have
a unique caste system. Its students must be given thirteen or fourteen foolish labels. It must have also a sizeable
number of outcasts. It must have juvenile pledge training. It must have artificial allegiances. They must be affiliated with national
centers of conceit and snobbishness so as to have a source for their own. If the education process suffers, then
it must suffer. If the Davidson man is narrowed rather than broadened, then he must be narrowed. If prejudices are
increased, it is, you see, because they must be. If individuality is stifled, then it must be stifled. And if
our full potential for intellectual growth is not realized, then it must not be realized.” All this because we are
unique.

SAYING WHAT?

Now just what are the fraternity men, with their great numerical advantage, trying to say? Rick Finch, a recent product
of the Davidson fraternity system, wandered around the point in his letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN but wound up attacking precisely
what he was trying to defend. As he so succinctly stated, the fraternities are an important part of a person's
life here primarily because of their function as a social outlet “in an environment which would be out of the
question without it.” What he has actually said is that we now have twenty-seven percent of our student body going
to college in an environment that is “out of the question.” If we knew exactly what he meant by “out
of the question,” we could get more out of his letter; but I think we can safely assume that if
Rick himself had not passed safely under the blackball, if the law of the jungle had ruled against him, he
would have had the good sense to beat a hot trail out of here at his earliest convenience.

OTHER ASSERTIONS

Rick also makes some other assertions which would not merit comment except that he is a Davidson alumnus and one
to whom I think many, including myself, would point with pride. One is that those rejected are not outcasts. In
the first place, I can’t think of a better definition for outcast without getting into Hindu religion. Secondly, it is
directly contrary to the representative remark I heard from one underclass independent, “Now I know how Negroes in this country
must feel.” I expect any time for a fraternity man to say “some of my best friends are independents.” And
it wouldn't be at all surprising or inapplicable for someone to venture, “They’re all right. I just wouldn’t want my
sister to date one.” Yes, Mr. Finch, the plight of the independent at Davidson is even more “out of the
question” than you imagined.

His mistake is in assuming that our present pattern of existence is the only one possible if we are to
continue to have any social life at all. This, I think, is a fallacy popularly indulged in by the student
body.

A SOCIAL EXPEDIENT

What we really need is a social expedient, not a pattern of culture that dominates our lives. We need to
de-emphasize fraternities, but that will admittedly be quite difficult as long as the present basic set-up remains. We could require
pledges to raise their hands and repeat “My fraternity is an expedient” one hundred times instead of having them learn
songs and “brothers” names. That would be a step in the right direction the same as delayed rush or 100%
bidding; but however we start, we must end by eliminating fraternities altogether before our social ills are done away with
completely.

I suggest that instead of the IFC discussing the matter, we form a committee composed of student, faculty, administration, and
alumni representatives whose purpose will be to offer a genuine alternative to the nationally sinking ship of fraternities. Surely there
is an alternative which would be, at the same time, socially acceptable to the students and consistent with the goals
of Davidson College. With the combined resources of Davidson men both past and present put to the task, unless the
public image of the “Davidson man” is one gigantic hoax, we could not fail to discover that alternative.

Gary Martin
Davidson College

THE MIDDLE OF THE ROAD

If We Could Only Know...
By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Managing Editor

I don’t think there has ever been or that there will ever be a situation in human affairs where all
right and truth and justice reposed in one person or one side of an issue and all guilt on the
other — by any set of standards. There is more than one side to every issue, even to the discussion
on fraternities at Davidson College. And now it is time for someone to comment on the Greek letter fraternity system
— not as an aristocrat in shining armor setting forth to disperse the rabble, nor as the glistening Nordic hero
begging someone to come out and fight — but since there are many points by many a protagonist worth consideration
— as a calm and tolerant spokesman. More dialogue is needed and fewer local Voltaires crying “Crush the infamous thing!”
Having satisfied that rhetorical outburst, I want to make a superficial analysis of a few points now under discussion.

It is generally popular to attack the Greek letter fraternity system as being either incompatible with the true principles of
Christianity or inconsistent with the expressed principles of Davidson College. Both these are risky generalizations, based on personal bias alone,
I think. To say that the Greek letter fraternity system is incompatible with the principles of Christianity is to say
it violates either the love ethic or the principle of equity in Christianity. Being is problematic. I must make a
start at meeting my problems. It is neither desirable nor practical for me to start by including everybody in my
circle of friends — being only a man, this is impossible for me. Yet I must start from somewhere; hence
I select a small group of friends. In order to select I must reject. Here is the origin of the
fraternity. It is neither possible nor practical for me to adhere to the love ethic in toto... Society has this
tension in itself between the love ethic and practical necessity. At worst Greek letter fraternities only reflect a problematic society.

Charging that since fraternities practice discrimination they violate the principle of equity, is practicing a subtle equivocation on the word
“equal.” Suffice it to say that equal rights of existence do not imply equal means of existence — or that
just because you and I are human does not mean that you have a right to my property. Specifically, this
means there is no inherent right to join or to be asked to join any fraternity, nor is there an
inherent right to deny to all what cannot be enjoyed by all.

To say that Greek letter fraternities are inconsistent with the College purpose of “creating the whole man” is to say
that the fraternities interfere with this purpose. One form of this argument is the contention that fraternities promote apathy among
their members. One of the problems of being expresses itself in the need for social acceptance; this need seems to
be intrinsic in every healthy human being. Fulfillment of this need takes many forms: for some it is being a
part of a fraternity, for some it is attacking fraternities — both these activities can fulfill a social need in
the human organism. Some needs for social acceptance are much stronger than others — those persons with lower need levels
will find satiation much quicker than will those with higher need levels. That so many men are satisfied merely with
being members of a college fraternity for awhile is similar to the satisfaction found by men active in the Union
— both these actions can fulfill a need. That many fraternity men and independents are apathetic to someone's standard of
valuation is not a reflection upon them as Greeks or GDI’s, but a comment upon their individual capacities to be
motivated.

What this amounts to saying is this: at a school like Davidson those men who are going to want to
take an active part in campus activities are going to do so — with or without a fraternity. Look at
the leaders in campus activities over the years and compare the ratio of fraternity men to independents. I do not
mean to suggest that a man has a right to a position because of his status, but I do state
that those wanting to be active in campus affairs have been active. And the Greeks have a far better record
than do the independents, if you use this factor as a yardstick. It seems to me that there are far
better methods to evaluate a person and an organization than a blanket charge of apathy.

Recently there has been a rise in the independent participation in campus positions. This is desirable, but from this it
is difficult to conclude that being in a fraternity is “bad.” Nor is it legitimate to conclude that because the
vast majority of Davidson’s most successful alumni have been fraternity men that it is “bad” to be an independent.

The problem of rejection is inevitable — it doesn’t stop at the fraternity houses. To select one must inexorably reject
and often be rejected. To live in society is to be constantly exposed to this possibility, it seems to me.
Yet the most important point here is that neither acceptance nor rejection has any intrinsic value in itself — where
these situations get their meaning is from the individual response. This existence being problematic, what is important is the individual
response to the problem. Often the greater the feeling of rejection the more a man will work to make himself
accepted in some manner and often the individual will refuse to face the problem. At any rate the focal point
of the problem of rejection is in the individual himself — and not in the fraternity system. Elimination of fraternities
is by no means elimination of rejection. Look to yourself, O Ishmael.

Granted these are practical aspects of the fraternity system that need changing or modification. But to speak at the Greek
letter fraternities are incompatible with the principles of Christianity and the purposes of Davidson College, I think, is to ignore
a considerable mass of logic and empirical data to the contrary.

Johnny Hart
