Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager

FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A Lack Of Communication

Few people will deny that the present phone facilities available to use by the student body leave something to be desired. It is not unusual during the evenings to have three or four students waiting outside a dorm phone booth, or sitting around a fraternity phone, at all hours. Such a situation is, granted, not one that will radically affect Davidson’s academic stature, nor one that will affect our athletic program. But the shortage of available telephones during rush hours does create inconvenience and in a few cases, a hardship, for the students wishing to use a phone. Our location, plus the fact that we have an all-male student body, does make for a potentially jammed-up situation on out-of-town calls.

To alleviate the phone shortage we suggest dorm room phones. It has been suggested that in view of the present needs of the college that this request would involve investment of college money that could better be spent elsewhere. We are inclined to agree with this point. This is why we emphasize that this program could be entirely self-supporting, with the administration contributing no more than is done now. The article located elsewhere on the page explains how this idea of a phone-in-every-room would work and be financed. A rental per month per phone of from $4 to $8 does not seem exorbitant, particularly when one considers that this cost would be split probably between the two students in the room. Small dial locks could protect the student from unauthorized calls.

We do not mean to suggest that installing the new system might not bring up additional problems—student switchboard operators were even suggested. But it does seem that the benefits involved make worthwhile the risk. That is, room phones in place of long lines in front of phone booths.

MLH

A Change Of Attitude

No body acting on behalf of USNSA shall participate in sectarian religious activities or partisan political activities; they shall not take part in activity which does not affect students in their role as students.

We were delighted to learn that Davidson’s delegates to the recent NSA regional conference successfully initiated action which attempts to shatter the “politically oriented” image of the controversial national student group. Davidson, represented by Student Body President Will Jackson and Senior Class President Fred Sackett, strongly urged the Carolinas-Virginia Regional NSA Conference to adopt “A Resolution Interpreting the Clause in the USNSA Constitution Regarding Legislation Affecting Students in Their Role as Students.” Prompted by a recent ultimatum from the Columbia University Student Council to NSA to either pass this resolution or lose Columbia’s political participation, the regional group defined its political realm as those activities “that have a direct causal relationship to matters of concern to students and their educational or social milieu, by their virtue of being students.”

With an ear to the student pulse (Davidson had a noisy hassle last fall; Wake Forest is currently in the midst of an NSA dispute), one leading proponent of the legislation wisely declared at the gathering, “The time has come for regions to inform the national organization that we are not satisfied with their past performance. Colleges are leaving NSA because of the broad interpretation of the ‘students as students’ clause. It is time that the Carolinas-Virginia Region initiate the steps that should in all probability define what and why this clause be re-interpreted.”

—Article X (A), USNSA Constitution

“Division has not and never will serve any practical purpose. USNSA is just not in a position to represent students as citizens, and as long as this is true, political opinions have no basis for endorsement by locals or National NSA.”

As a result of the conference’s action, official Carolinas-Virginia Regional NSA policy now:
- urges all schools to mandate their delegates to refrain from the introduction of any resolution which do not affect students in a direct causal relationship in their role as students,
- urges that delegates abstain at the National Congress at Minnesota University this summer whenever such controversial legislation is offered on the floor, and
- urges that delegates support legislation applying the Carolinas-Virginia interpretation to all National USNSA policy statements.

The fate of NSA at Davidson is again in question. In accordance with the directive of the voters in last year’s referendum, Davidson students will again be able to vote on NSA on May 11. If the move by the Carolinas-Virginia regional at the National Student Congress this summer is successful, we are confident that NSA will at last come into its own. Our support of NSA is based on the likelihood of this event. We urge the student body in the May 11 referendum to support the continuation of Davidson’s membership in NSA.

CLD

The Restraint Of Reality

Hisses from an otherwise courteous audience arose Monday when James Jackson Kilpatrick completed his dissection of the Civil Rights bill with the observation that “time is the only solution” to the racial problem.

That the hisses were discourteous is obvious. That they reveal a basic misunderstanding on the part of the student body is not so clear. Conservative newspaper editor Kilpatrick was not advocating prolonging America’s racial problem. Rather his contention was that the difficulties of the Negro race could not be eliminated overnight. He expressed no pleasure in this fact; neither does the Davidson student. But here part the typical student and Kilpatrick. With cries of “Freedom now!” pelting him daily via the press and television, the student seems inclined to overlook reality in his emotional pursuit of the ideal. On the other hand, Kilpatrick, although expressing sympathy for the goals of the Civil Rights bill, nevertheless realized that these goals would not be reached through legislative shortcuts.

The editor denounced the Civil Rights bill as unconstitutional, saying that the only way to attempt legitimately to legislate civil rights is by constitutional amendment. But he further stated that he would oppose most such amendments. His opposition again rested on his belief that the racial strife could not be legislated away. Attempts at legislating civil rights, contended the editor, would produce few lasting benefits for the Negro while dangerous precedents would be set, precedents affecting all citizens.

But Kilpatrick, while maintaining that the solution would be slow in coming, suggested positive steps towards aiding the situation—improving employment opportunities, improving housing and general living conditions, and providing better educational programs. These suggestions lack the glamor of a “march for rights.” Nevertheless, if the everyday needs of the Negro are more adequately provided for, the problem of rights would diminish considerably. And yet the fact remains: the solution will take time. There are no shortcuts.

CLD

Associate Editors
Rick von Unwerth
Charles Ramberg
Jim Downey
John Todd
Mike Harrington

Managing Editors
Rufus Adair

Copy Editor
Ron Snow

News Editor
Tom Loflin

Feature Editor
Johnny Clark

Sports Editor
Sam Smith
Tom Thel

Photographers
Jack Lingle
Johnny Wright
Rufus Hallmark
John Compton
Irvine Welling
Ned Kelly

Asst. Business Mng.
Malcolm Lane

Advertising Manager
Bob Holladay

Circulation Manager
Bill Briggs

Contributors this week: Allen Webb, Jimmy White, Bob Vance, Don Tyler, Bob Strauser, Britt Snider, Paul Simpson, Preston St. Clair, Tim Rothermel, Forrest Roles, Bob Rhea, David Powell, Bill Norfleet, Larry Neah, Buck Lawrimore, Wayne Lane, Tuck Jones, Monty Johnson, Dick Hicks, Bill Foster, George Fain, David Coffey, Harry Carr, John Barnhardt, John Bailey, Bill Aitken and Bob Adams.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Room Phones For Students? An End To Waiting

A Practical, Economical End To Phone Tie-Ups

BY MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON

If one has ever tried to use any campus phone, dorm or fraternity, during an ordinary afternoon and evening at Davidson, he will sympathize with the two characters in the cartoon disgusted with waiting forever. There is an alternative for the phone shortage at Davidson—a phone for every room. Economically a phone for every room is not a “pie in the sky, by and by” dream; it can be done for a reasonable expense. Southern Bell Customer Service Representative Charles Hill supplied THE DAVIDSONIAN with cost estimates he termed “pretty close to the actual amount."

Other schools of greater size than Davidson have phones installed in every room at student option. In this area such schools include Emory, Duke, and UNC at Chapel Hill. While figures on the cost of their operations are not available, it can be safely assumed that their college administrations thought the project economically sound.

For a school the size of Davidson to undertake this enterprise may seem the height of madness, but several considerations make it necessary. We are

Good Performance Boosts An Extremely Poor Play

BY PETE MYERS

Three blind mice,
Three blind mice,
See how they run...

But these mice did not run, and there were only two—two old ladies, Mrs. Letitia Turnbill, played by Lucy Johnston, and Miss Crystal Hower (Nancy Copeland). These nice, old ladies were government employees (in the Office of Medicinal Herbs), until Senator Kruger—C. W. Stacks—abolished the department. But four and one-half years later, they were still going strong, due to a slip-up in Congress. Trouble came, though, in the form of the State Department, the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force. Enter our hero, Tommy Thurston, played by Neal Bushoven, who, out of “compassion” for his ex-wife's two old aunts, decided to combat the evil forces intruding upon the quiet Georgetown mansion that housed the O.M.H.

The stage is now set: all the characters are there, except the ex-wife, Karen Norwood (Carol Barber), and her new fiancé, Dr. Henry McGill, played by Woody Cleveland. Now the action begins in a burst of farce, directedagainst Government bureaucracy, among other things. “Two Blind Mice” is an entertaining play. Lucy Johnston and Nancy Copeland do an excellent job of playing the two ladies running the O.M.H. Their movements and expressions were very good. Especially after the play warmed up a little, they stole the hearts of all the audience in their quiet, batty way! Neal Bushoven and Carol Barber (yes, Mr. Barber's wife) were great in their supporting roles. Neal had good expression and, of course, good timing. In her debut on the Davidson stage, Carol Barber showed what acting ability she possessed. The only thing lacking was projection. She dropped a few lines, but her timing and facial expressions more than made up for that! These four roles carried the play; the two old ladies with their childish ways and sentimentality, Tommy in his exuberance, and Karen in her savage animosity toward her ex-husband.

In the minor roles were Alex Bernhardt (Major John Groh, USA); Richard Trudell as Wilbur F. Threadwaite, Department of State; Bill Foster, Lt. Col. Robbins, USAF; and Dick Forrester, Commander Thomas Jellico, USN. Outstanding among these was Richard Trudell, who again convinced the Davidson audience that he is a born comedian. The bit parts were well-played. C. W. Stacks and Eddie Craig, who played Ensign Jamison, courier for the OMH security force and nephew of Senator Kruger, should be mentioned here. They did their parts well, though, perhaps through lack of experience, not as well as possible.

Amidst this good acting by most of the actors, was a good technical set-up. The set and costumes were excellent. The set was designed by Director Rupert Barber, with the artwork being done by Preston Faggart and Virginia Trudell, who have already shown their competence with the colorful “Visit” sets. In the sound department, though, there was one innovation that did not impress me at all. The overture began with the first four bars of our National Anthem, and then just stopped. By the time the audience was on its feet, a little voice came through the speakers saying: “Thank you.” I thought that this type of opening, although original and perhaps clever (not to mention unorthodox), was out of taste completely and never should have been used.

Another fault in this production, I thought, was the choice of the play itself. It was a delightfully humorous production of an extremely poor play. The playwright, Samuel Spewack, used a tremendous plot, but to get laughs, he used some of the cheapest tricks known to comedy writers—and he was not the least bit subtle or apologetic. A question I asked myself as the play ended was: Although the play is entertaining, does it really fit into the concept of good, educational theater that has been expounded by the Drama Department?

Located away from any nearby metropolitan center with a girls’ campus—our social life from weekend to weekend is mostly dependent on the telephone. Being located away from any city also means a reduction in the number of phones available for our use. On this page is a box that gives and compares costs between our present system and the proposed new system. It should be noted that the figure charged per phone per month is arbitrary; the college could adjust it to meet expenses.

The system of a phone in every room would work like this: each student or pair of students would be given the option of a room phone. The college would be billed for the phones and their use. In turn, the college would bill the students having phones. Each phone would be billed a flat monthly rate for the use of such a phone (this covers local calls), extra for any long-distance calls. The entire cost of the operation could be subsidized through student rentals, still strictly optional. At present, the college is charged a flat $3.05 per phone (tax-exempt) by Southern Bell. The probable cost per room would not be more than $8.00 per phone and more likely closer to $4.00 per phone per month. The increase covers rental cost of phone service facilities (cable, etc.). The installation cost would be somewhat minor compared to the cost of relocating present facilities. Hill commented in regard to this: “It would probably cost more to put in Davidson's existing facilities again than to install a new switchboard and phone-per-room facilities.”

There would be certain other operational costs besides normal monthly rental fees. The college would have to pay for an operator to work the switchboard. Hill emphasized that this job could be handled by trustworthy students who were properly trained. In addition, the Business Office would have increased administrative paperwork, possibly resulting in the hiring of additional part-time help. But the costs even here can be supported by the individual phone holders. The college would go on paying for its phones as usual; the cost of the new phones would be met by the student renters. This increase is mostly per phone; even if only half the rooms on campus had phones, the cost would still be reasonable for the student. There is no loss of money in this new operation for the college. Even the costs of installation could be defrayed by student phone rentals. There is no financial loss for the college and no prohibitive rental fee for the student to have a phone in every room.

PHONE COSTS PER MONTH (Approx.)
NOW ITEM NEW
701 Dial PBX Switchboard $110
20 One Way Trunk Lines $120
96 Switching Equipment $200
— Combination Switching Equip. $525
360 Telephones (120 - 600) $1512
102 Key Telephones $102
50 Power Plant and Mileage Ext. $270
— Operator's Salary $540
— Administrative Work $100
$628 TOTAL COST $2979

Payment of present fees, plus a $5.25 per phone student rental fee would raise $3,000—more than enough to cover costs.

Juilliard Quartet Presents Concert Despite Difficulty
BY ROBERT MILLER

In spite of all the difficulties, the Juilliard Quartet presented an excellent concert. Their plane was two hours late; the violist lost the last page of the Beethoven; and the high humidity necessitated frequent tuning and extremely careful adjustment during movements to ensure correct intonation. Nevertheless, none of these obstacles was apparent in the precise, incisive manner in which they played. The rhythmic and dynamic structure of the Mozart K. 575 was well presented, but to the detriment of the lyrical elements. The Andante, which echoes the composer’s song Das Veilchen, suffered the most in this respect; the quartet’s tone is intense and ultra-refined rather than warm and lyrical, and the complete lack of reverberation in the auditorium only increased the metallic sheen of the performance.

The Beethoven op. 18 no. 4 is a transitional work, showing affinity for Mozart lyrically and for Haydn formally, but also having a harmonic tension which far surpasses its predecessors. The Juilliard Quartet emphasized the latter quality and did quite a convincing job of it. The delicate use of rubato (speed variation) and skillful dynamic contrast also contributed heavily to the performance. It was in the Bartok, however, that the New Yorkers shone: the vicious attacks and cross rhythms of the outer movements, and the haunting gypsy melodies of the inner ones are ideally suited to their formidable virtuosity and tonal quality. The ensemble was flawless, and the complex rhythms were extremely well defined, which added immensely to the driving power of the work. The encore, from a quartet by von Dittersdorf, was witty and charming.

This reviewer would have preferred a concert which was more suited to the Juilliard's talents; there were several alternate choices which would have allowed them to put their special feeling for modern music into better use. A possible suggestion for the future: could not a chamber music subscription series be held in Hodson Hall? It would provide enough variety between programs to allow more specialization within concerts, and also utilize the superior acoustics and air conditioning of Hodson. Nothing of this kind has been attempted in Charlotte, and the large audiences for the Komitas and the Juilliard demonstrate the evident interest in a series of this nature.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Richardson Civil Rights Demonstrators Condemned
GERRITSEN

Dear Editor:

As a former Richardson Scholar (1962-1963) I still receive THE DAVIDSONIAN from time to time and I almost spell it now whereas I only used to read the headlines while I was in Davidson myself. The college newspaper is my only regular contact with Davidson College and I am very anxious to keep up with current events on campus.

The last copy I received contained an account of the Charlotte march against racial segregation. Now it is not in my line to pronounce a judgment on this kind of protest, but there is something in connection with this march that I want to comment on, namely the participation of this year's Richardson scholars. The report in THE DAVIDSONIAN said that almost all of them took part which I suppose to be correct. What do these students think gives them the right to show open condemnation of a society into which they have only recently been hospitably accepted! They have only been in North Carolina a few months and I would be greatly surprised if all the Richardson participants in this demonstration had acquainted themselves thoroughly on the origin and history of this complicated problem prior to their coming to the United States. Would it not be a much better line of conduct for them to read about the subject and talk their views over with American students and friends outside the campus than to insolently march in the streets of Charlotte? I think that what it boils down to is that they believe that such improper conduct will make heroes out of them. Their action has been an insult to Americans and beneficial to nobody.

Robert H. Gerritsen

SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscribe to the 1964-65 DAVIDSONIAN
Name
Address
City
Zip Code
Clip out and mail to
I enclose four dollars ______
Bill me later at $4.50
Renewal New
Circulation Manager
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Box 218
Davidson, N. C., 28036