FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

“A TURNING POINT”?

Furman had the triple misfortune Tuesday night of being the first team to play the Wildcats after the St. Joe
game, the first to meet the ’Cats in Johnston Gym, and of having handed Lefty’s charges their worst defeat of
the season last year. They left Davidson Tuesday night, fully aware of their misfortunes. The ‘Cats were great and Hetzel
was never better.

“I think we all sort of wanted to redeem ourselves after the St. Joe game,” Hetzel noted. Redeem themselves they
did with an offensive show that managed 50.5 per cent of the field goal attempts, 72.4 per cent of the
free throws, and 113 points, while out-rebounding the Baptists 62-35. Furman managed to hit 47.8% of its shots, which is
pretty good considering that a majority of the Paladins’ shots were on outside shots. Furman Coach Lyles Alley can be
thankful that his team didn’t have a cold night—the match was hardly a contest as it was, but if their
shooting eye had failed them, they would have been run out of the gym.

Further reflecting on the game, Hetzel noted that “all of us were really up for this one. The fact that
Furman beat us last year had a lot to do with it too, and it also helped to be playing
in Johnston Gym.” Hetzel was surely up for the match. His 53 points, 27 rebounds, 71% field goal average, and
81% free throw average were nothing short of phenomenal. The 6’ 8” All-America added that he didn’t realize at the
time that he was setting a school scoring record (surpassing the 46 he tallied two years ago against Jacksonville), but
noted, “Getting all of those rebounds is one of my big thrills. Rebounds are important for the team. If one
guy does all the scoring, then the team isn’t as strong.

“The shots were just falling Tuesday night, but my scoring couldn’t have been possible without all the passes I was
getting. Playing with such good teammates was a major reason for my point total, because their offensive

By MIKE MOOTY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's cagers take to the road to meet Jacksonville University in Jacksonville, Florida tomorrow night, and then return home to
take on the Keydets of Virginia Military Institute Tuesday night.

Jacksonville, with six of eight lettermen returning from last year’s squad, is picked as the team to beat in the
Florida Intercollegiate Conference. The Dolphins held on to an early lead

By PAUL MARION
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s promising

ONE GO (Staff Photo by Thel)
STONE GOES UP FOR TWO
Paladin Heicher Defends In Vain
’Cats, Hetzel Rebound Over Hapless Furman

By TOM COOK

Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s rejuvenated Wildcats returned to the familiar confines of Johnston Gym Tuesday night looking for blood after an upset 77-64
loss to St. Joseph’s, and Furman University was the unfortunate victim as the ‘Cats stomped the Purple Paladins 113-82.

Sparked by 53 points from Fred Hetzel, the Wildcats jumped to a 33-18 lead mid-way through the first half and
kept up their lead until halftime where they took a 63-47 lead into the dressing room. The second half was
marked by instances of ragged play offensively, but Coach Lefty Driesell described the early second half, “Our defense held them
to 13 points for the first ten minutes, which was pretty good.” With 4:41 left in the game Hetzel layed
the ball in the basket.

During the second half St. Joe had the ‘Cats down by 17 points on two occasions. St. Joe shot 38.2
per cent as compared to the ‘Cats 31.1 per cent. The Wildcats were pretty well caged by the three-quarter court
man-to-man defense used by St. Joe. Fred Hetzel was the only man to break loose, scoring 31 points, Dick Snyder
followed with 15 points and Don Davidson was next with 9.

At the end of the first half, St. Joe was leading 36-28. The first two and a half minutes of
the second period saw the ‘Cats fall 13 points behind at 43-30. Although Davidson forged a 15-15 tie a few
minutes later, they were never again really a threat. The rest of the game was just a time for St.
Joe to widen its winning margin.

Swimmers Top S. C., Clemson

Davidson’s swimming team began the season this week with impressive victories over Clemson, 52-43, and the University of South Carolina
57-37, Monday and Tuesday. Coach Dwight Shoe was very pleased with the entire team effort and singled out certain swimmers
for their outstanding performances. Jim Stokes, holder of the school record in the 200-yard butterfly, won this event in both
meets. Shoe expects that Stokes will break his own record this year.

Sophomore John Helm won the 50-yard and 100-yard free-style events in times which lack only one second of the record
in each event. The 200 yard individual medley is especially strong this year with Lloyd Richard Holt, and Randy Hughes.
Each has been timed at about 2:21, which is three seconds off the school record.

The medley relay team of Jim with the backstroke, Mark Waldon at the breaststroke, Stokes on the butterfly, and either
Helm or Hughes with the freestyle won in both meets in near record times. Other top performances have been turned
in by Steve Barden, Jim Grey, and David Grant in

By LARRY NORFLEET
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson fans listened with disbelief while the Duke freshmen slapped an 86-68 defeat on the Wildkittens, and saw their hopes
of a great freshman team quickly fading, but the Kittens bounced back with decisive wins over Furman and UNC, and

Clemson Guns Down Riflemen

Saturday the Davidson Rifle Team met Clemson at Clemson and when the smoke cleared, Clemson had a 1331 to 1246
victory.

Even though disappointed by the loss, Sergeant Eaves, the assistant Davidson coach, was still well-satisfied with the efforts of his
riflemen. Eaves had particular praise for junior Jim Kopp who had a high score for both teams of 278. Noted
Eaves, “Kopp’s score

Cagers Travel To Jax; Enters ’Cats’ Den

Backing up Tiner will be 6-6 Gene Martineau and 6-9 Dick Pruet. Both Martineau and Pruet are sophomores, each with
a year of varsity experience under his belt. Under the direction of Joe Williams who last year coached the Furman
defense that handed the ‘Cats their second loss of the season, the Dolphins will be looking for revenge after last
year’s 121-93 thrashing at the hands of Hetzel and company. It was against Jacksonville two years ago that Fred Hetzel
set the old Davidson school record of 46 points in a single game.

After their southern jaunt, the 'Cats return to Johnston Gymnasium to face VMI, last year's Southern Conference tournament champion. Although
the Keydets have six returning lettermen, they will be minus Bill Blair, the All-Southern Conference guard who decimated Davidson in
the Conference tourney semi-finals last year.

Rookie coach Gary McPherson will rely heavily on Charlie Schmaus, a 6-2 junior, and Joe Kruszewski, a 6-0 senior. Schmaus
averaged 15 points a game last season, and proved to be exceptionally tough in tournament play. Filling the pivot slot
occupied last year by Bobby Watson, will be 6-9 Jack Hartung. Hartung, a junior, is pegged as the key to
success on this year’s team. He is described as being just an average shooter, but very strong on the boards.
In the teams’ last encounter, Davidson fell to VMI 82-81 in last year’s Southern Conference tournament.Semi-finals for a loss that
kept the ‘Cats from the conference title and a berth in the NCAA tournament. To Duke, C, Furman everybody began
breathing easier. “Our offense just wasn't getting the good shots, but still no team should have scored 86 points against
us,” remarked Coach Terry Holland after the Duke game. Davidson's poor offense showed up in the scorebook with a low
30.1% from the floor. Scott Sinnock’s 23 points followed by Bobby Lane’s 20 were the high scores of the game,
but Duke's balance showed through at the end with their starting five averaging 15.2 points. Lewis took the top scoring
honors for Duke by notching 19 points.

The Kittens set great pre-season fire to their expectations with a record-breaking 131-92 win over Furman’s frosh with everyone on
Davidson’s team getting in the scoring column. Rod Knowles was the big man for Davidson racking up 36 points. Sinnock
and Lane followed with 27 and 23 points, respectively. Tom Youngdale totaled 14, Tom Clayton popped in 9, while Pinky
Hatcher and George Leight had 6 points apiece. The Kittens broke the century mark again by beating down a good
UNC team 100-87. Youngdale gave his best showing of the year with 27 points while Downey and John Alexander were
standouts in the 200-yard backstroke event. Both sharpshooters travel to Greenville Friday to meet the Furman team. Eaves commented, “We
hope to take this one, I hope it's like the basketball game Tuesday was.”

Coach Driesell summed up the situation with the observation that “Maybe Furman figured to press us, conceding 20 or 30
points to Hetzel and holding down the other players. But Hetzel got 50 instead. St. Clair, Phil Squier, Ronnie Stone,
and Cam Harkness finished the game with Stone collecting five points and Squier averaging about 6.” Hetzel's 53 points broke
his old school record of 46, set two years ago. His 27 rebounds also broke his sophomore school record, and
Holland is looking forward to meeting Duke Tuesday to avenge their only loss.

Divers Bill Jacobs and Butch Falligant added much depth to the Wildcat swimmers in the two meets and are expected
to continue in improvement as the season progresses. Shoe is optimistic about this year's team, noting that “the team is
in good shape for so early in the season and has great potential.”

Davidson's wrestlers flattened Pembroke last Friday by a score of 31-3, but fell 23-12 to Duke Monday. The Pembroke captain,
Roger Barbee, defeated Davidson's Duff Armfield for the visitors’ only score Friday. “Lack of depth and lack of a heavyweight
are our two chief problems at this time,” stated Coach Charles Parker concerning his matmen. “Even so," he continued, “I
think we have looked quite good so far, somewhat better than I had expected. Wrestling is a tough sport, and
at Davidson we have always lacked depth because few boys want to come out and really work hard if they
are not assured of a position on the first string.” Parker cited several of his charges as showing promise and
skill in contests this year. “Joe Buffington is looking good, and Mike Bisard, a senior and captain, and Eric Nichols,
a junior, are both looking fine with their performances.”

Pembroke Match Results:
123 lb.—Joe Buffington (D) pinned Phil Troutman in 2:00.
130 lb.—Mike Bisard (D) defeated Ken Burlock 19-0.
136 lb.—Jesse Sims (D) won by default over Don McNalley (injured rib cage).
146 lb.—Roger Barbee (P) defeated Duff Armfield 6-1.
157 lb.—Ben King (D) pinned Karl Stehlein 5:59.
167 lb.—Terry O’Hair (D) pinned Charles Mansfield in 2:50.
177 lb.—Eric Nichols (D) pinned Howard Slone in 4:30.
Heavyweight—Bruce Dalton (D) defeated Buddy Austin 4-0.

Duke Match Results:
123 lb.—Joe Buffington (Dav.) tied Pfeiffer (Duke) 8-8.
130 lb.—Mike Bisard (Dav.) pinned Vreeland in 4:00.
137 lb.—McAlpine (Duke) defeated Jesse Sims 3-2.
147 lb.—Holden (Duke) defeated Duff Armfield 9-1.
157 lb.—Darling (Duke) pinned Ben King in 1:55.
167 lb.—Lamm (Duke) pinned Terry O'Hair in 2:15.
177 lb.—Eric Nichols (Dav.) pinned White in 6:27.
Heavyweight—Forfeited by Davidson.

GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

All The Way CATS!

FROM OUR THREE NATURAL SHOULDER SHOPS
Gold Cup and Camp Sock from $1.50
Canterbury Belts from 3.95
Alan Paine and Thane Sweaters from 13.95
Weejuns 15.95
London Fog Golf Jackets 16.95
College Hall and Madisonaire Sportcoats from 31.95
College Hall and Madisonaire Suits from 55.0
Topcoats by Madisonaire 95 44.6
London Fog Maincoats 247

USE YOUR CHARGE ACCOUNT
DOWNTOWN—3RD FLOOR
Cotswold — Park Road Shopping Center
