Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Warner Hall

Reverend Warner Hall spoke here recently at John Spratt’s request on the “Philosophy of the (Trustee) Education Committee.” Reverend Hall
is a recognized leader in the Southern Presbyterian Church and a man with strong convictions which he is willing to
defend at length; but if what he gave us was actually the philosophy of the education committee or even his
concept of that philosophy, then this institution is in for trouble. Ignoring (for this issue anyway) what he called his
“solution to the library problem,” the following editorials will deal primarily with his comments concerning the faculty oath, and the
more nebulous question of just what does and what does not make for strong personal commitments.

The Oath
(a) Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior and do you believe in the fundamental teachings of evangelical
Christianity?
(b) Do you believe the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament to be the word of God, the only
infallible rule of faith and practice?
(c) Do you promise in humble reliance upon the grace of God which comes by the Holy Spirit, so to
live and teach as to give expression to the Christian faith?

—Loyalty oath which all full professors at Davidson College are presently required to take at their inauguration during commencement exercises.

Reverend Hall’s defense of the faculty oath ran roughly as follows: Davidson College is a teaching arm of the Presbyterian
Church, and as such, has the right to perpetuate the Christian faith in any manner it sees fit. Thus the
college has the right to require of its professors a basic commitment to evangelical Christianity, but aside from that central
commitment, they are “free to follow their own aims searching for truth . . . to search for truth anywhere
they want...”

In commenting further on commitment, Rev. Hall remarked that student opposition to the faculty oath means that students do not
think that faculty members should be committed at all. Such is a perversion of a stand (ours) if we ever
heard one, but more on that presently.

Another expression of the same line of thinking comes from English Professor C. E. Lloyd: “. . . the college
has the right to say what group of men its professors should come from. I feel that it is entirely
right for the college to be committed to a certain means of life. I think the people who founded the
college were on the right track. I don’t want to see a weaker relationship between the college and the Church.”
(THE DAVIDSONIAN, Feb. 8, 1963)

We very much agree that Davidson College should be aware of a basic Christian commitment, and we certainly have no
particular desire to see Davidson become a secular college. And the college obviously has the right to say “what group
of men its professors should come from.” But how it follows that the faculty oath is right, necessary, or wise
frankly beats us.

The trustee position on the oath is puzzling. For two years the oath has not even been administered to men
being inaugurated as full professors, and yet last Spring the trustees refused to vote it out, tabling it instead for
consideration by the Education Committee.

The logic of the oath itself escapes us. A man can teach on the faculty here for any number of
years without taking the oath, but in order to become a full professor he must publicly aver his loyalty to
evangelical Christianity. Thus the oath, far from keeping undesirable points of view from being presented in the classroom, serves more
as a financial penalty on those who refuse to take it. Needless to say, the most important argument against the
faculty oath is the fact that many qualified professors, including evangelical Christians, will not come to a school which requires
a loyalty oath because they feel, and rightly so, that such a requirement is an infringement on their academic freedom.

The faculty oath is a test of faculty loyalties, and there should be no such test—each faculty member ought to
be able to establish his own loyalties. That is not to say that the college should have no control over
what loyalties its faculty should hold. But such control should come during the hiring of professors, not via a loyalty
oath. If the oath were dropped, the school would still screen applicants as it pleased. But having hired a man
they believe capable of doing a job at Davidson, nothing further should be required of him by way of an
oath of loyalty.

And if some men of differing beliefs did join the faculty, so what? Far from endangering the Christian context of
Davidson, we feel that if the MacCormac-Scriven discussion this week proved nothing else, it proved that men with beliefs alien
to Christianity can do a tremendous amount towards stimulating intellectual education, and towards actually strengthening one’s Christian commitment.

If the oath were to be voted out, Davidson would have a much better chance to get outstanding professors in
several fields. And to answer Rev. Hall’s charge that students do not want their professors to be committed, the last
thing we want is a professor who is not committed to anything. Perhaps, however, we would like to occasionally come
in sustained contact with a man whose basic commitment is not necessarily to Christianity.

A great many of this country’s outstanding (and committed) scholars, men whose textbooks “infiltrate” our minds every day anyway, are
not evangelical Christians. Again, the screening process by those who hire and fire could easily control the proportion of how
many men on the faculty believe what. However, the stigma of an oath would not be present to offend the
feelings of many good scholars that the college would like to have teaching here.

Davidson has been fortunate in the past as far as quality of faculty, but in tightening competition for good professors,
(particularly in fields such as philosophy, foreign languages, and the natural sciences), a college this size with a faculty oath
is living on borrowed time. We hope very much to see the faculty oath abolished at the coming meeting of
the trustees.

Commitment

Rev. Hall also spoke at length about commitment, and maintained throughout his talk and the later discussion that a man
can make an intellectual commitment without ever coming in direct contact with alien systems—i.e. one can make a commitment merely
by reading books and hearing spoon-fed lectures. Perhaps so, but may we begin by questioning how strong such a commitment
would be.

Dr. Scriven pointed out how poorly American soldiers in Korea withstood brainwashing, simply because they had never come directly in
contact with Communism, and hence had no idea how to answer an ideological attack on Democracy. A glaring answer to
Rev. Hall’s remark that beliefs can be formed from reading occurred (hardly for the first time) in the discussions Dr.
Scriven held during his brief stay—students again and again proved themselves incapable of expressing or defending their Christian beliefs. Questions
asked Dr. Scriven were often ridiculous and easily disposed of, and students seemed incapable of coming back with their book-learned
knowledge.

To continue with the Scriven example of the value of direct contact—we doubt he converted anyone here. But he called
us holy innocents, told us everything most of us had been brought up to believe in was empty and false—we
watched him all day as he demolished with ease befuddled ministers and all-knowing freshmen discoursing on philosophers whose names they
couldn’t even pronounce. Trouble was he ran through the few intelligent questions with equal ease, and we went to Chambers
Tuesday night to watch Professor Earl MacCormac get run off the stage.

Scriven, an impressive man anyway, read his opening manuscript arguing for the non-existence of God with unnerving confidence, and to
say the least around a thousand people were paying a great deal of attention when Professor MacCormac stood up and
to general relief told us that not only could he shoot Scriven’s position full of holes, but there was too
a good case for the existence of God.

From what we’ve seen, students tend to react strongly for or against things in college, and they also tend to
form strong loyalties. At Davidson for four years we’ve watched recurring reactions which almost invariably end up anti-organized religion. Part
of the reaction is against the required aspect of worship here, and part is against some of the speakers themselves—the
worst of which range from shouting backwoods evangelists to smug sophisticated types. In fact, this week was the first time
we can remember that we've ever seen anything resembling widespread, genuine student interest in the existence of God or any
other religious question. It took an atheist (not a book) to set off the reaction—and most students reacted strongly, negatively
or otherwise. Professor MacCormac’s comments in defense of the existence of God meant more to many students than all the
books on religion we've ever read.

But unfortunately the debate may have produced in some a Billy Graham-type of revival faith—strong now but extremely liable to
taper off shortly. Such makes us feel that perhaps a continuing dialogue would be of even greater value, i.e. that
men of Scriven’s caliber could perform quite a service if permitted to remain on campus for more than 48 hours.

A running dialogue among professors who actually themselves represent divergent points of view could have a powerful effect on Davidson’s
intellectual atmosphere—forcing students to decide where their loyalties actually lie. So why not concentrate on trying to create such an
atmosphere, rather than merely trying to maintain the status quo—as Davidson College all too often tends to try to do
with its 98% Protestant student body. And again, if Rev. Hall believes Christianity to be the revealed Truth, and thus
capable of withstanding all challenges, why does he seem so reluctant to test it, with Buddhism, Communism, Judaism, or whatever.

Finally, Dr. Hall mentioned being willing to die for your faith. We feel we would be hard pressed to find
a student at Davidson who would be willing to give his life for the faith he has built here. Real
faith—the kind of faith to which one would dedicate life or death—can only come about as a product of conflict,
be it ideological or otherwise. We get very little conflict here of any kind, and then only in extremely small
doses. We feel that the lack of conflict is directly responsible for much of the lack of commitment. It would
follow, Rev. Hall, that with added conflict would come more of the kind of commitment you desire.

DTS Student Outshafts Coed With Reply To Refusal

Ed. Note: In the following form letter, we learn how the complete Davidson Gentleman gives personal attention to girls who
shoot the shaft. This unexpurgated version was contributed by Fred Harrison.

Dear __________,

I am very sorry that you could not come to Davidson for the weekend of __________. I know that we
would have had a real fun time together drinking hard liquor, doing fancy pirouettes and contortions on the dance floor,
blowing smoke around each other’s noses, and __________.

18) you don't have enough cuts
19) important tests in the future
20) your schnauzer is having a delicate Caesarean
21) you are pinned, engaged, married, or going steady
26) you figured a senior who had to blind date couldn't be too sharp, but you're (wrong) (right)

This might prevent you from coming down to Davidson this weekend. I know that you really did want to.Come, and
I'm awfully sorry that you won't be sharing the fun with me for the weekend. Every time we're together I
enjoy so much debating whether or not the Twist is really dead; or if the S.C. beach boogie will ever
make big time.

23) You despise me as a person.
24) Someone must have told you lies about me.
(Love always) (Passionately) (Sincerely).
(If blind date, also check one of the following)
(Signed) _....

P.S. I really didn't want you to come this weekend anyway. I just asked you to see what you would
say. Guess I really made you feel bad.

—(Salem girl) trying to convince you that Wakies are as bad as their football; or maybe just sitting in some
secluded basement spot where no one else ever goes.
—(Converse girl) observing your unique taste in clothes, how this seems to reflect the degeneration of the landed South Carolina
aristocracy.
—(Hollins, Randolph-Macon, Sweet Briar girls) consoling you because you couldn't quite get into Vassar, etc.; or maybe talking about your
several trips to the Continent (or Charlottesville, Lexington), and learning how really broadening travel is.
—(Vassar, Smith girls) contemplating truth and reality in life as we watch the mundane mass of conformist humanity tread beneath
us.
—(Other schools too insignificant to be mentioned here)

This weekend certainly was shaping up to be a good one until I (received your 1) call, 2) telegram, 3)
letter, 4) memo, 5) message by word of mouth) and realized that you were not on the 1) bus, 2)
train, 3) plane, 4) car). I know it would have been fun because 1) we have such a terrific combo,
2) we don’t have a party but the .......... ‘s do, 3) the .......... ‘s are flat broke, but I
know that someone will be having a party. But please don’t feel bad about not coming. I can certainly understand
how (check any applicable) 1) a death in your immediate family, 2) a funeral in your immediate family, 3) two
funerals in your immediate family (damned orphan!), 4) a sudden illness in your immediate family, 5) a mild illness in
not-so-immediate family, 6) a strange contracting of social disease by your fourth cousin on your mother's side, 7) a mythology
makeup test, 8) a very special meeting of orientation leaders, 9) your difficulty in finding a ride on only two
week's notice, 10) you have already made plans to go somewhere else, 11) you received my invitation and hastily made
plans to go somewhere else, 12) you had vowed long ago to make plans to go somewhere else if I
ever called you again, 13) I don’t excite you, 14) no one in my fraternity excites you, 15) too many
in my fraternity have excited you before, 16) your Young Christians Convocation of Pure Hearts had already planned a live
presentation of Sodom and Gomorrah, 17) special problems only a Hunter Hill.

For the last week I have been hearing the latest thing in recordings, “I Want to Hold Your Hand,” booming
forth over the campus. I have listened first with some degree of amusement, but lately my amusement has changed to
boredom. However, this morning, after a week of exams accompanied by loss of sleep, I was awakened rudely at 8
a.m. by the same sound that has brought ecstatic joy to all those who have heard it. I'm sure that
I was not the only one trying to catch up on some sleep, not to mention those who were up
early for last-minute study before exams. I question not the value of the record. It may even have some. What
I do question is how the record is being used, by whom it is being used, and, most importantly, at
what hour it is being used. Davidson is supposed to be a school for gentlemen. If it is impossible for
some to be gentlemen, I wish they would at least pretend to be.

The front page of your issue of December 8 carried a story about author John Knowles. One theme of this
story, so far as I could make out its themes, was that Knowles’s human characteristics should immunize him against criticism.
Another seemed to be that Knowles was criticized unfairly in the reviews of his book appearing in the December first
issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Since I wrote one of the reviews, I should like to reply to your story. It
is irrelevant to the criticism of novels what kinds of persons their authors happen to be. It makes no difference
whether A Separate Peace was written by a machine, orangutan, or simple-minded man. The work must stand or fall on
its own character. It is irrelevant what the author of a novel may think about its reviews. If Mr. Knowles
cannot tell the difference between my review and, say, a Carolina freshman's, that tells us something about Mr. Knowles, but
nothing about his book. As for the author's contention that I misread his book, I might equally contend that he
misread my review. For in discussing his book here Mr. Knowles emphasized the idea I criticized in my review, except
that what he thought profound and “very true," I judged to be (1) banal and (2) unsound. My judgment may
be mistaken. But it will not be mistaken simply because Mr. Knowles happens to like A Separate Peace better than
I do. Or because he is willing to drink beer with someone at Hattie's.

W. H. Tilley
Associate Professor of English

DAVIDSONIAN Guide To Female Behavior

Ed. Note: This past summer the following revelations of the social habits of the American college girl were published in
the University of Florida Summer Gator. We offer these insights now in the hope they will help our readers better
understand the complexities of female behavior.

FRESHMAN
She blushes at naughty jokes.
She smiles at naughty jokes.
She says, ‘Oh, please stop that!'

SOPHOMORE
She smiles at naughty jokes.
She wants to marry a football player.
She wants to marry a movie star.

JUNIOR
She laughs at naughty jokes.
She says, ‘Oh, please!”

SENIOR
She tells naughty jokes.
She says, “Oh!"
She wants to marry a capitalist.
She wants to marry a man.

She thinks a college education leads to things social, cultural, and academic.
She thinks midnight is late.
She reads: What Every Young Girl Should Know.
She won't date a boy who has ever had a drink.
She thinks things learned in college leave one intelligent.
She tells her mother everything.
She likes to smooch.
Her motto: Mother knows best.
She thinks all men are nice.
She drinks cokes on a date.

She thinks a college education leads to things social and cultural.
She thinks midnight is pretty late.
She reads: How to Win Friends and Influence People.
She won't date a boy who has just had a drink.
She thinks things learned in college leave one fairly intelligent.
She tells her roommate everything.
She likes to smooch.
Her motto: Death before dishonor.
She thinks some men aren't nice.
She drinks “pink ladies” on a date.

She thinks a college education leads to things social.
She thinks midnight isn’t so late.
She reads: The Arts of Love.
She won't date a boy who has had over one drink.
She thinks things learned in college leave one intelligent enough.
She tells her diary everything.
She likes to smooch.
Her motto: Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
She thinks most men aren’t nice.
She drinks hi-balls on a date.

She thinks a college education leads to things.
She thinks midnight is midnight.
She reads: Care and Feeding of Infants.
She won't date a boy unless he drinks.
She thinks things learned in college leave one.
She doesn’t tell a d— thing.
She likes to smooch.
Her motto: Boys will be boys.
She thinks no men are nice.
She drinks anything, anytime, anywhere.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

DAVIDSONIAN Guide To Female Behavior

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: John Todd
BUSINESS MANAGER: Jeff Wampler
Associate Editor: Duncan Newcomer
Assistant Editors: Tom Loflin, Rick Lowery
Assignments Editor: Joe McCutchen
Feature Editor: Bob Strauser
Sports Editor: Jim Downey
Assistant Sports Editor: David Stitt
News Editor: Rick Finch
Photography Editor: Sam Smith
Photographers: Romir Chatterjee, Dan Adams, Johnny Wright, Rufus Hallmark, Paul van den Berg
Assistant Bus. Manager: Charlie Smith
Advertising Manager: Irvine Welling
Circulation Manager: Malcolm Lane

Contributors This Week: Harry Carr, John Bailey, Bob Holladay, George Fain, Cliff Kirkpatrick, Allen Webb, Rufus Adair, Bill Aitken, Bill
Norfleet, Pat Freeny, Paul Simpson, Taylor Blackwell, Bill Hufford, Charles Edwards, David Coffey, Tucker Laxton, David Powell, and Johnny Clark.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
