FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1964

Unbeaten Sigs To Fifth Straight Crown

By PAUL MARION
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Kappa Sigs captured their fifth flickerball championship yesterday by finishing their third straight undefeated season. This year’s 12-0 record pushed their winning streak to 42 games and contributed to a 58-2 record over the past five years.

After crushing the Betas by a 63-14 margin, the Sigs stopped the Sig Eps 33-20. Led by all-star tailback Buddy DuBose, this year’s team was composed of Joe Jelks and Roy Garrison at halfbacks, Tommy Reams and Larry Compton at ends, John McKinley and Jamie Bryant in the interior line, and David Brown and Tucker Laxton as defensive standouts. The Kappa Sigs averaged 30 points a game to 8 points for their opponents.

The surprising Sigma Chis finished second with a 10-2 record. The Chis stopped the KA’s 36-19 and then downed the strong ATO’s 39-27. With George Mueller at tailback and Ronnie Ayers and Paul Reichardt at halfback, the Chis presented a well-balanced backfield. Star Evins and Mike Smith excelled on defense while Tommy James sparked the offense.

The Betas placed third by beating the Sig Eps 36-13. Throughout the year, Jack Sherrill, Joe Rice, and Mac Otts have sparked the team and all will be returning next year. Alan Turner, Albert James, and Jim Timmons were valuable assets.

The SAE’s stomped the Pi Kapps 19-6, while the ATO’s and Phi Delts each split their two games for the week. The Phi Delts’ game was decided in the last two minutes. The touchdown combination of Dave Hardeman to Rufus Adair proved the difference. Vance Taylor along with Bill Council, Bill Ross, and Cal Calhoun turned in outstanding jobs for the Delts. The Delts finished their season with a 14-7 victory over the KA’s and the ATO’s dropped their last one to the Sigma Chis 39-27.

The Sigma Nus upped their record to 5-6 by beating the Pi Kapps 39-18 and the Independents 36-24. The Phi Gams were assured of a winning season by their 26-7 win over the Pikas. In other games, the Pikas slipped by the Sig Eps 25-21 behind Bill Briggs, John Gresham, and Alan Torrance. The Sigma Nu—SAE and Beta-KA games this afternoon completed the IMAC season.

Kappa Sig 12-0
Sigma Chi 10-2
Beta 8-3
SAE 7-4
Phi Delt 8-4
ATO 8-4
Phi Gam 7-4
Sigma Nu 5-4
Pika 4-8
Independents 3-9
KA 2-9
SPE 2-10
Pi Kapp 0-12

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

A STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION

Regardless of what one thinks is wrong with Davidson’s program, no one can deny that something is wrong. In The DAVIDSONIAN of October 30, I suggested several changes that could be made to improve the situation. Perhaps there are other alternatives. The important consideration is that the problems should be studied and solved. I don’t think Coach Dole or anyone else will deny that improvement is needed — disagreement revolves around the question of what changes are necessary for improvement.

Davidson has been ambling along, letting the problem ride for too long. Concrete steps toward solving it need to be made. A step in the right direction would be the formation of a committee by President Martin to study the program. The committee should include representation from the students, the faculty, and the alumni, perhaps two from each group. Such a committee could thoroughly investigate all aspects of the football program, with the investigation including interviews of Dole, Athletic Director Scott, and various members of the football team. The interviews could determine these individuals' analyses of the problem and their proposed solutions.

The committee could weigh these proposals with information obtained in other aspects of the investigation and with their own opinions derived from a study of the situation. At the completion of the study, the committee could then submit a report to the Trustees’ executive committee with an analysis of the causes of the football problem and proposals for removal of the causes. Such a report might or might not be acted upon, but it would certainly present more than just a surface view of the football situation and would give the trustees a substantial basis upon which to act if they chose to do so.

SIGMA DELTA PSI & A HAIRY BACK

Track Coach Heath Whittle reports that he would like to see more students try out for Sigma Delta Psi, the national honorary athletic fraternity. For admission, students have to meet certain standards in the 100 yd. dash, 120 yd. low hurdles, mile run, shot, high jump, broad jump, football punt, baseball throw, handstand, handspring, rope climb, 100 yd. swim, and chin vault. A student automatically becomes a member when the requirements are met. Anyone interested should see Coach Whittle.

George Solley and Billy Taylor were elected by the squad Tuesday as co-captains of the freshman football team. Roger David says that he has never been mentioned on a sports page before. I don’t know what it has to do with sports, but he probably has more hair on his back than anyone on campus.

“YOU CAN’T USE MY MATS”

For years the IMAC has been sanctioning the somewhat pointless paradox of allowing freshmen to compete in intramural wrestling, swimming, and track while they are on the corresponding freshman teams, and preventing frosh football, basketball, tennis, and baseball players from participating in the related IMAC sports. This year’s Council decided to correct the situation by preventing freshmen out for wrestling, swimming, and track from participating in these IMAC sports.

There are several justifications for such a move. The freshmen out for frosh teams naturally are in better shape because of their training in practice; it isn’t fair to prevent some freshmen from participating while barring others; the primary concern of intramurals is to provide opportunity for athletic participation by those not on the college teams; domination of tournaments by freshmen who will later compete on the varsity squads tends to lessen somewhat the interest in these tournaments.

The major objection against preventing those of freshman teams from playing is the argument presented by wrestling coach Charlie Parker that such a move would cause fraternities to keep pledges from going out for freshman teams so that they could compete in the IMAC tournaments.

Of course, this argument is groundless. Nobody is going to refrain from playing on a freshman team so that he can participate in a two-day IMAC tournament. And there hasn’t been any problem of fraternities keeping frosh off of basketball, tennis, and baseball teams to intramurals. Any problem that could conceivably arise could be alleviated by holding the tournaments well after the freshman schedules have begun.

However, the wrestling tournament will be held next week with the freshmen wrestling team members entered. At Monday's IMAC meeting, Coach Parker pointed out in a rather overwhelming display of broadmindedness, “If you put your proposal in the constitution, there just won't be a wrestling tournament. I'm the wrestling coach and that’s all there is to it.”

In response to Council President Mike Thurman's suggestion that the IMAC run the tournament by itself, Parker commented, “Go ahead and have the tournament if you want, but you won't have it in the gym, and you can't use my mats.”

Coaches’ concerns for having freshman teams as strong as possible can certainly be appreciated, but any fears about detrimental effects of the IMAC seem groundless. I hope the other coaches will be more open-minded and receptive to IMAC efforts to improve the intramural program.

Frosh Drop 28-22 Loss To Furman

Davidson's Wildkittens closed the season last Friday by dropping a 28-22 thriller to Furman, the loss leaving the freshmen with a 2-3 record for the year. The Red and Black could muster only one score the first half to Furman’s three. The Paladins struck quickly making it 7-0 early in the game. The Kittens then retaliated with a long scoring bomb from quarterback Billy Taylor to Kim Johnson. Furman scored two more times the first half and the Kittens left the field with a 21-7 deficit.

The second half was a different story, however. Noted Coach Tom Stevens, “We just out-played them the second half. We hit better.” Furman, trapping up the middle for a series of plays, posted another quick T.D. early in the third quarter but from then on the game was all Davidson. The Cat's hard-hitting defense caused five Furman fumbles, three of which were recovered by middle guard Tupper Morehead. The Davidson offense also began to move the second half. Taylor punched into the end zone late in the third quarter and then threw to halfback Dick Lindsey for a two-point conversion to make the score 28-15. In the fourth period, Taylor connected with Lindsey again for another score.Seven games they have been outscored 49-199 by opponents such as Brown (3-20), Delaware (0-28), Temple (18-38), Bucknell (12-54), Gettysburg (3-21), and last week's loss to Rutgers (6-31).

By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Halfbacks Johnny Walker and Steve Smith were injured during Tuesday’s practice. Coach Bill Dole noted that Smith will probably start tomorrow, but if Walker is unable to play, sophomore Mickey Andrews will start in his place. Coach Dole also mentioned the possibility that Dan Barefoot might start at tackle instead of Bill Randolph. With Heckard returning to quarterback, Bill Rikard and Phil Hightower will man the offensive ends.

Coach Dole, looking ahead to this afternoon, commented, “They have a real good passing attack and we are going to have to cover them close and play a good pass defense to stop them. They have a good kicking game and their punting has been good. I think it will be a real good game."

The ATO’s edged the Delts 37-26 in a game which was decided by Davidson assistant coach Tom Stevens, who saw the Leopards against Rutgers, declared, “They couldn't run against Rutgers at all, but George Hossenlopp, their quarterback, threw for 260 yards.”

Lafayette is deep in receivers. Hossenlopp's favorite target is end Dave Brown, who is a newcomer to a squad which boasts 18 lettermen.

(Staff Photo by Thel)

PIKA MARK BROWN PULLS DOWN PASS
Sig Ep Defender David James Fights For Losing Cause

Pfeiffer Tops Booters, But St. Andrews Falls

“Number 44 (Bob Gombos) is their best running back, judging from what I saw,” commented Stevens. Gombos is a converted end who was not a starter at the first of the season. In the backfield with Hossenlopp and Gombos are halfbacks Bill Horvath and John Woods.

Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's soccer team split its last two games, boosting their season record to 7-3 by shutting out St. Andrews 5-0 Friday and falling 5-2 to Pfeiffer yesterday.

Hampered by injuries from the Campbell College game, the Wildcats got off to a slow start on the hard and narrow St. Andrews field. “We missed several scoring opportunities in the first half, although they played well against us and hustled as much as we did,” said Coach Harry Fogleman.

After a few lineup changes and some new strategy, the Wildcats organized themselves and came back strong for the second half action. Two goals by Ben Nzengu, two by Jan Brakel, and one by Lee Fanning gave the red and black roundballers a 5-0 margin at the end of the contest.

Though sophomore Tom Frist went into the game with slight injuries, he saw action at three different positions in the encounter. Jan Brakel raised his record goal total to 26, an all-time high for Davidson soccer. Coach Fogleman commented yesterday on the fine play of Nzengu, Brakel, and fullback Gus Brown, but said he was pleased with everyone's performance and did not single out any particular player.

The Davidson booters suffered a 5-2 loss, their third of the season, at the hands of Pfeiffer College yesterday. The two squads matched goals until the fourth period, when Pfeiffer's offense caught fire and tallied three quick points to give them a 5-2 decision and their sixth straight win of the season.

Lee Fanning scored the Wildcats’ first goal in the final quarter, and offensive ace Jan Brakel booted his 27th scoring kick of the season in the third period.

Whittlemen Win Again, Run Over High Point

The Davidson harriers trounced the Purple Panthers of High Point 20-43 Tuesday in their last regular season meet. High Point's Lewis finished first with an amazing, record time of 22:04 for the 4.2-mile course. Behind Farlow, however, came eight ‘Cats, who left little doubt as to the outcome of the meet. Tom Heffner, in at 22:29, Andy Little, in at 22:50, and John Barrow, with 22:56, also broke the old course record of 22:58. Taking fifth place in the meet was Dennie Phillips, with 23:14. Finishing within one minute of him were Robert Dean, 23:21, Ronnie Reese, 23:29, Jesse Sims, 23:41, and Chester Davis, 23:14. Finishing tenth was High Point’s second man, Grif Balthis, with 24:40.

The victory over High Point gives the cross country ‘Cats a season dual meet record of five wins against two defeats. This record, better than last year’s 4-2, plus the Wildcats’ second place finish in the state meet, gives evidence to a successful season.

On Monday, Davidson will host the Southern Conference Championship Meet. Coach Heath Whittle stated, “Of the eight teams entered in the meet, West Virginia is probably the strongest. Defending champions William and Mary, Davidson, and Furman will most likely be battling it out for second place.” The meet will start on the soccer field at 11:30 Monday morning.

Staff Photo by Thel

HANDY ANDY LITTLE GAINS ON TEAMMATE
Harriers Trounce High Point

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Fumble, Missed Block Bring 5th Grid Loss

By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“I think the whole game from our point of view can be effectively wrapped up in two phrases: a crucial fumble and a missed block,” commented Coach Bill Dole on Davidson's 13-10 setback at the hands of Lehigh last Saturday. “The fumble, late in the first quarter, gave Lehigh the ball on our 20 and set up their first touchdown. A lineman’s missed block cost Davidson a score when the rusher threw Steve Heckard for a loss before he could pass to an open receiver in the end zone.”

Dole laid much of the blame for the defense on a lack of team spirit: “The boys weren’t as aggressive as they were for the Furman game; there’s not much natural rivalry between Lehigh and Davidson. Since Lehigh was playing at home, they were naturally up for the game. I don’t mean that we weren’t up, but we weren’t as keen for that contest as we were for the Furman game.”

Stated one of the ’Cat gridders, “What really hurt us was our failure to come through when we really needed to; we surpassed Lehigh statistically, but not at crucial points.” Also mentioned by a player were the several devastating gains by Lehigh quarterback Les Kish when he was forced to run the ball on a pass play.

Davidson drew first blood in the match, scoring early on a Jim Terry field goal after a scoring drive stalled on the opposition’s two-yard line. The Engineers bounced back to score on a Wildcat fumble seconds before the beginning of the second quarter. Davidson’s Steve Smith, leading ground gainer in the Furman game, then led the ’Cats through a sustained march, scoring himself from the Lehigh five. Davidson carried a 10-7 halftime lead to the dressing room, but a third-quarter 16-yard touchdown pass by Lehigh quarterback Kish put the Engineers out front. A scoreless fourth quarter wrapped up Lehigh’s first victory in seven games and left Davidson with a 2-5 tally.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
Best Pizza West of Italy
La Roma Ristoranti
1540 West Boulevard at Remount Road
Phone 376-2576
Charlotte, N. C.

Singing goes better refreshed. And Coca-Cola — with that special zing but never too sweet — refreshes best.

THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD