_ VOL. LII FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1964 The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FUZZBALL TOURNEY STARTS MONDAY (See Page Three) NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN Campused Students May Use Lake Site By JOHN BAILEY The Lake Campus is now to be included in the definition of the Davidson College campus, it was announced by the Student-Faculty Conference Committee through the Student Council at its meeting, May 4. Student Council President Will Jackson qualified the definition with the reminder that all campused students using the Lake Campus will be required to take the most direct route to and from the lake (via the access road to Highway 21) with no stops in between. Jackson read a letter from Tougaloo College that expressed the thanks of that College to Davidson for the support given in the Mississippi school’s drive to maintain possession of its charter. The letter included the assurance of Tougaloo College that it would continue its efforts, and it stated that the bill to retract its charter has already “hit innumerable snags in the legislature.” The 1964 Freshman Court, which punishes violators of Freshman Regulations, was chosen by the Council. It is to consist of three seniors: Jerry Rogers, Vernon Anderson, and Mac Mays; three juniors: Joe Davis, Jim Rollins, and David Meschani; and one sophomore: Barry St. Clair. Freshman Adviser John Barrow will serve as chairman of the Court. Jackson stated that many Student Council members included ideas on election reforms in their respective platforms. He expressed a desire to begin putting these ideas into effect and appointed a committee consisting of Fred Sackett (chairman), Chuck Matthews, John Barrow, and John Gresham. This committee is to correspond with other colleges during the summer in an effort to gather new and useful ideas for better elections. The Council was reminded to contact all organizations desiring charter renewals and have them fill out the necessary form. It was also asked that all professors desiring books to be placed on the summer reading list please turn these in as soon as possible to Andy Little. Fred Sackett asked that each fraternity be approached for the purchase of a $10 John F. Kennedy Memorial Fund ticket. John Barrow volunteered to pass to the dean any suggestions put in his hands concerning orientation alterations. NSA Stays Say Fall’s Opponents The referendum to keep Davidson in the National Student Association should pass easily, according to the major combatants in last fall's wrangle. Former Student Body president John Spratt was confident when asked about the vote, and he stated that he had no doubt of an affirmative poll for NSA. He said that he felt there would be little campaigning and that letters to the editor would probably be the only form. Spratt also expressed the view that the resolutions passed at the recent NSA Regional Convention would be an aid in increasing conservative support of NSA. The most important resolution is one that will regulate NSA's political stands on US activities. Pat Freeny, a main opponent of NSA in the fall, stated that he would not participate in any conflict over the problem. Student Body President Will Jackson was available for the following statement: “USNSA has continuously made positive—if not spectacular—contributions to this campus during the past year, and increased use of NSA programs and facilities is planned for next year.” Gert Behanna Will Speak On Miracles At Assembly After millions, men, moonshine, and morphine, Gert Behanna, Tuesday's chapel speaker, still couldn't find happiness. Sent to Smith College, Mrs. Behanna soon left it for her first marriage. Her first marriage was against her father's wishes for “he had wanted her to have a string of college degrees.” In her second marriage she turned to alcohol. As she puts it, “I sank into chronic alcoholism on a very high economic level.” Her third marriage was no less eventful. She turned to drugs, trying suicide by barbiturates. During her convalescence from the suicide attempt, she realized “there was no way to come but up, and there was nobody there but God.” Through some friends she had casually met at a dinner party and an Episcopal minister she had a religious experience “impossible to put into words—a spiritual shower bath.” Several years ago under the pen name of Liz Burns she wrote a best seller, The Late Liz. In this book she tells of the horrors through which she went. Mrs. Behanna’s topic for chapel is “Today’s Miracles.” She will appear Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday at the Davidson Methodist Church at 7:30 each evening. Seniors Rebel Against Traditional Gift By TOM LOFLIN A senior smiles with a superior air every spring when the Bursar’s office invites every returning student to lay down $100 to guarantee his presence, or at least his regrets, when the fall term traditionally arrives at Davidson. Says the cool, confident, frugal senior, “They'll never get another nickel out of me!” But when this statement is made, it is done so without the realization that it will actually cost him money if he wants to gain his freedom, already supposedly hard-earned (unless he's been an underachiever), from the land of required religions, the terrorist Honor Court, and the Ditto-Mice (or the esteemed Student Council to those who haven't yet recognized the one clever phrase invented by a former editor). “Cost money to graduate?” he asks incredulously. Then he finds out about that cap and gown rental. That’s about $3.50. “Well, that's reasonable. Heard the Court ruled no one can walk across the stage in his underwear to get his diploma. Not Faculty Decides To Abolish Academic Probation System (Staff Photo by Smith) COLONEL WHEATON POINTS TO NEW ‘HOME’ He and his family leave for Vietnam on June 28 Wheaton’s ‘Normal Tour’ Begins Again With Vietnam By BOB ADAMS Entering the army in June, 1945, with a commission from West Point, Lt. Col. Paul R. Wheaton has served what he casually describes as “a normal tour” for an officer of nineteen years active duty. To argue facts with a career officer is approaching the impossible, but to take issue with Wheaton's opinion is another matter. Airborne and Special Forces duty lie beyond the definition of a ‘normal tour.” Wheaton volunteered for and served in both elite combat components. In addition, Wheaton commanded a rifle company in the 2nd Infantry Division in Korea and served as a Regimental Staff Officer in the last years of that conflict. After the Korean combat duty, Wheaton spent four years’ duty in the Pentagon both as intelligence officer and as personnel manager for the infantry branch. Three years as “numero uno” in Davidson's ROTC department would not in itself be a mandate for change in that department. Wheaton, however, is a man who can recognize need for improvement and then take the initiative to affect revisions. Under his leadership two major additions to the ROTC curriculum were added: the flight training program and the special forces unit, both of which are utilized on a volunteer basis. Believing that practical participation is the best instructor, Wheaton has emphasized getting the cadets “into the field” to experience maneuvers and tactics for themselves. Wheaton has been pleased by the response of the freshman and sophomore cadets to the tactics problems. Equally significant to him is the fact that “The number of cadets going RA (Regular Army Commission) has doubled to tripled in the past few years.” The students are not the Colonel’s only concern in the ROTC department. Wheaton requires his officers and NCO's to take off two afternoons a week for their health if not relaxation. Preferring golf twice a week, Wheaton paired with Major Hampton to defeat by “luck and a birdie on the 8th” seniors Bill Pridgen and Jimmy Lewis in the faculty senior tournament last Wednesday. This year the Colonel's responsibilities have included not only supervising the department and teaching seniors but also the planning and coordinating of all operations at Fort Bragg in preparation for this summer’s ROTC camp. Seniors can readily assert the formidable scope of that. Wheaton, however, will not direct operations at camp this summer. The Department of the Army has ordered him to assume residence in Dalat, South Vietnam, as senior advisor to the South Vietnam Military Academy. Dalat, about 200 miles north of Saigon, will also be “home” for Mrs. Wheaton and the youngest three of the Colonel's four children. The family will begin residence in the Asian hot spot on or before June 28. Also reassigned and not returning to Davidson next fall is Maj. David R. Hampton, commandant of cadets, who will enter the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. Maj. R. W. Pierce, MSI instructor, will also be reassigned to other duty, but his orders have not yet been received. Underachiever’s Fate Produces A Deadlock The Davidson College faculty voted Tuesday to abolish the system of Academic Probation but became deadlocked over the underachievement program and decided to resume the meeting later. President D. G. Martin set next Tuesday as the date. Another major change is that students will be allowed to take as much as 19 semester hours of work (including ROTC) at any time regardless of grades. “You can see how this will demand a more mature attitude on the part of the student and greater responsibility for his work,” commented Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnston. No student will be permitted to carry less than 12 semester hours (not includingROTC) without the permission of the Executive Committee. Any student whose performance in the classroom indicates he is not making a serious effort to do an acceptable quantity and quality of work may be required to withdraw from the College by the Executive Committee of the faculty. Changes were made, too, in requirements for readmission, “designed to make the student get as much of his work behind him as soon as possible,” according to Johnston. Entrance into the sophomore year will require 25 semester hours, 22 quality points. Entrance into the junior year: 58 semester hours, 55 quality points. Entrance into the senior year: 91 semester hours, 91 quality points. Requirements for graduation remain unchanged: 124 semester hours, 124 quality points. 

Prior to entrance into the junior year, the following additional requirements must be met:
—All college entrance deficiencies must have been removed.
—All freshman requirements for graduation must have been completed, including specifically at least six semester hours of credit in Bible, English, mathematics, and a foreign language.
—A minimum of four semester hours of credit must have been earned in Basic ROTC, unless the student has been officially excused from taking ROTC.

The specific ruling on the abolishment of AP has yet to be rewritten following revisions at the faculty meeting, but in essence, the student will be completely on his own as to meeting the readmission requirements, either during the normal school year or during summer school. If the requirements are not met, the student will not be advanced. Action has not yet been taken as to when this new ruling will go into effect, and it certainly will not be effective before next fall.

In place of AP, at the end of each semester and of each middle semester grading period, any student who failed to complete 12 semester hours and 12 quality points for the grading period under consideration will be notified in writing that his academic achievement is unsatisfactory and that he must report immediately to the Dean of Students for counseling and for such additional action as may be considered advisable for the improvement of his academic standing. The freshman six-weeks grading report will be done away with entirely.

With the abolishment of AP will go, of course, all its restrictions, but again the date and course of this abolishment is as yet undecided. As the faculty committee continued to read its report, revisions and amendments began piling up, according to President D. G. Martin. Finally, after a number of faculty members had been forced to leave because the meeting was running late into the afternoon, the faculty became deadlocked in a tie vote on one more amendment. It was suggested that President Martin act to break the tie, but Martin said later that he did not feel that he would be acting in the best interests of the College by deciding an important issue as that without the advice of a number of well-informed faculty members who had left. It was moved and passed to (Continued On Page Four)

NAACP Secretary To Speak On Rights
Herbert Hill, NAACP labor secretary, will conclude the YMCA speaker program for this year in chapel on Monday. He will speak on “The Current Crisis in the Civil Rights Movement.”

In his capacity as Labor Secretary, Hill conducts a nationwide program to secure equal opportunities for the training and employment of Negro workers involving federal agencies, state and municipal fair employment practices commissions, industrial management, and organized labor. Hill is editor of Soon, One Morning, New Writing by American Negroes and co-author of the book, Citizen’s Guide to Desegregation: A Study of Social and Legal Change in American Society. His writings have appeared in Commentary, Journal of Negro Education, The New Leader, Midstream, New Statesman, Phylon, Dissent, Journal of Inter-Group Relations, The Crisis, and many other publications. Mr. Hill is also the author of No Harvest for the Reaper: The Story of the Migratory Agricultural Worker in the United States. He has frequently presented testimony before congressional committees and state legislatures on the economic status of Negroes, on migratory agriculture labor, on manpower utilization, and on apprenticeship training programs. He has made many studies in these areas and has conducted investigations that have resulted in the elimination of widespread abuses.

Under the auspices of the United States Information Service, Hill lectured on American race relations in England and France and in 1959 in Geneva, Switzerland, served as Special Consultant to the Second United Nations Conference on the Eradication of Discrimination. He has lectured at colleges and universities throughout the country.

Paper Cops Top Honor
THE DAVIDSONIAN has once again won an All-American honor rating from the Associated Collegiate Press. The highest obtainable, the rating is given to only about 10 percent of the college newspapers judged. The ACP issues ratings twice a year, and the current rating is based on THE DAVIDSONIAN issues from the first semester of this year. THE DAVIDSONIAN was especially commended by the ACP for the appearance of its front page. The ACP judges are all professional journalists. They not only give each college newspaper a special rating, but also suggest ways in which the newspaper staff can improve its publication.

GIVE SIGN ON CONCORD ROAD
But not so fast, there’s the little matter of the Faculty-Senior Class picnic. Another buck. “What!” screams the senior. “A whole buck, but I won’t even go to the, uh, thing. I see the faculty enough in classes, have for four years. And those I don’t know now, I don’t care about. The old nose won't do any good now.” Tough: it's still a buck. “But I won't pay it; it has nothing to do with graduation, and I won't go to the picnic.” The answer comes from Fred McGuirt, the class president— “Don't pay it, don’t graduate.” So he pays it.

Now that’s not all. The college will order invitations for those who want to invite tenth cousins and kindergarten friends (nothing like an old friend to share the big moment) to his commencement. Ten are free, after that it’s a dime apiece. That may not be too bad, a greedy senior can haul in a lot of loot with fifty strategically sent invitations. Say you don't have any friends and no cousins? Well, fill out the ungentlemanly form anyway—the Bursar’s office must have a card from you saying you don’t want to order any invitations. “Darn red tape, worse than the Army.”

And then came the revolt by the majority of the Senior Class. Unheard of at Davidson? Well, it happened in a class meeting several weeks back. And it just might be that the forces of reaction and tradition on the campus had better look into the thing lest student revolts themselves become a custom. Walt MacDonald, who had been appointed by McGuirt to study proposals for the Senior Class gifts, got up with his list of suggestions. He read off such things as a portrait of Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, who once served as president of the college; a mural of Davidson in 1900 for the Davidsoniana Room in the Library; lights for the Reserve Reading Room in the library; lights for half the outdoor tennis courts; and books for the library (which are, it has been pointed out by some malcontents, a definite need).

Then, just to be nasty, some smart guy in the back got up and suggested, or actually moved, that the fee for the class gift be reduced to one dollar from the traditional $2.50. The motion upset both McGuirt and MacDonald, who were members of the famed Ditto-Mice. They were supposed to be running the show this time, and all of a sudden here was a fellow who wasn't saying “ditto.” “Let's vote on the gift we want to give first,” pleaded MacDonald, “and then decide how much we want to spend. That way we can know better what we'll want to give.” But suddenly there was more than one rebel. Most of the people sitting in the rear of the auditorium and a few scattered others began to stomp their feet and shout for the motion initially proposed to receive the first vote. Gentleman and former Student Body President John Spratt stood up and announced matter-of-factly that Robert's Rules of Order make it mandatory for motions to be considered in the order in which they have been presented. “We're not using Robert's Rules of Order here,” barked McGuirt.

Then Jimmy Lewis had to get into the disordered mess by standing up and suggesting another gift be added to the list of proposals—a sign on Concord Road to announce Davidson College to the world who passed that way. MacDonald and McGuirt had their way; the nature of the gift was voted on first. Lewis’ proposal won. (“We should be able to get a pretty good sign for $25,” he suggested.) The library books, just to show the Davidson senior knows what is wrong with Davidson, finished a fairly strong second. Then the class voted overwhelmingly to cut down the size of its donation to a dollar a person. And then for a perfect climax, it was moved and approved that the sign on Concord Road would bear no mention of Woodrow Wilson.

There are yet ominous tones for the future. One rather distinguished junior leader vowed, “We may vote the gift out altogether next year.” That would save another buck.