PAGE SIX - THE DAVIDSONIAN - FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1964

SHAKESPEAREAN FESTIVAL BEGINS

Wilson Presents View Of Johnson Campaign
By BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

In Thursday assembly, Congressional liaison officer Henry Hall Wilson confronted his Davidson audience with the Democratic viewpoint in next Tuesday’s
election. A native of Monroe, Wilson received his education at UNC and his early political experience in the Carolina arena.
He assumed his current position in 1960 at the appointment of President Kennedy.

Warming up his audience before reading from his prepared text, the Washington visitor repeated a Lyndon Johnson joke on then
President Kennedy's Catholicism. Wilson then launched into a talk on the administration's legislative program, the probable program of the next
administration, and the stories behind several pieces of current legislation. Whether speaking of personalities or of fascinating Congressional infighting, Wilson
spoke with a relaxed and capable air. He remained both thoughtful and candid in his replies to questions. At least
in the informal discussion, this former representative of the “New Frontier” brought back memories of 1960 when Johnson, Humphrey, and
Goldwater were still bit players in the November drama.

After this brief and bipartisan topic, the Presidential aide moved to Senator Goldwater's voting record in the Senate. Voting against
Republicans and Democrats alike, Wilson noted, “Senator Goldwater seems to want the repeal of the twentieth century.” Wilson moved next
to comments on national policy attributed to the Arizona Senator over the years he has served in Washington. He noted
with particular force (quoting from appropriate Goldwater texts) the candidate's changing attitude toward the United Nations. Said the speaker, “Not
only does the Senator change his mind, he will now deny that he ever held his former attitude.”

In closing his address, Wilson turned from the national to announce that a coffee hour would follow. Here, Wilson was
in his element and most effective.

Collections Are Short Of Y Goal
By BOB HOWARD
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The annual YMCA Drive has been extended beyond its planned one-week duration due to a very slow response from the
students. The drive, which started Oct. 8 and was to culminate Oct. 15, has fallen far short of collections of
previous years. Up to now only $2,000 has been collected from the students. “We can’t possibly carry on our planned
program without at least $3,000 from the students,” commented YMCA vice-president Eric Nichols. If the contributions are not adequate, the
cutback in the program would probably be made in the number of speakers for Great Issues and Forums. This year’s
Great Issues program has been “Politics—Election ‘64.” The Forums scheduled for the second semester will examine the problem of sex
and ethics. Cabinet members are contacting members of the faculty and administration for further contributions. The college also gives some
monetary aid but the burden of financing the student-oriented, student-led program of the YMCA lies on the students. The budget
for the coming year is $1,425 of which $1,425 comes from outside sources. Items in the budget include Great Issues,
Book-of-the-Semester, Forums, Publicity, Community Service, Tutorial Service, Spiritual Life, Deputations, Operations, and Fair Share. A more complete description of both
the budget and the programs may be found in the YMCA booklet distributed to all students.

Joint Effort Sponsors Singer

Marian Anderson, internationally famous concert artist, will present a concert in Charlotte’s Ovens Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. next Wednesday. Her
appearance is sponsored jointly by Davidson College and Charlotte College. Miss Anderson's Charlotte performance is the only concert she has
scheduled in the Carolinas during her worldwide farewell tour. The tour began in October and will include nearly 50 cities
in the United States and the major cities of South America, Europe, and Asia. Miss Anderson will give her final
concert on Easter Sunday at Carnegie Hall. Free tickets for the Charlotte concert were made available to Davidson students and
some 280 requested them. However, C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, stated that only about 200 had been
by his office to claim their tickets. He added, “I believe this response is quite good since Miss Anderson made
her reputation before this current generation was ever born. I can't help wonder what happened to the 80 students who
have not claimed their tickets.” Charlotte College also made free tickets available to its students, and tickets are currently being
offered to students of other local colleges at reduced rates. The two colleges are also selling tickets to the general
public. Miss Anderson was born and educated in Philadelphia, and gained international renown as a concert artist. She has performed
at several White House concerts and sang at the inaugurations of Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy. She received the Freedom Medal
from President Johnson in December of last year, and has received numerous other national and international awards including 24 honorary
doctorate degrees. Miss Anderson has sung before 7,000,000 people during her career in nearly every country of the world.

Michael Light, Ed Dwelle Rehearse For Coriolanus

Coriolanus Curtain Will Open Thursday

Coriolanus is one of the most neglected plays of Shakespeare, but it is not because it is a bad play.
A great deal of the whole pattern of modern politics is involved in it. The whims that lie between the
making of war and the preservation of peace, the gap between the rich and the poor, and the forces of
men and happenings which produce traitors are all present in this play. Coriolanus, the man, is a soldier and a
nobleman of great honesty and integrity in a society where to gain power it is quite necessary to lie or
at least shade the truth to the people. His downfall was that he could not bring himself to do it.
He was driven out of his own country, forced to go over to the enemy and to help bring defeat
upon his mother country. The performance will be on the single unit set, constructed by Howard Bryan, which will serve
as everything from a battlefield to the Roman forum. Steps, platforms, and a bridge are central to the set design,
keeping with the essential elements of the Elizabethan stage. With this type of setting, the scene moves swiftly from one
part of the stage to another. The principal roles in the play are held by Simon Blackford, Michael Light, Smith
McKeithen, Ed Dwelle, Alex Bernhardt, Mrs. Constance Welsh, Dr. Tom Clark, and Dupre Jones. Of the cast, Barber said, “I
am extremely pleased with the performance of the nation’s highest office.”One of her most important tours was the one sponsored
by the State Department in 1957, which took her through the Far East and was immortalized in Edward R. Murrow’s
much praised “The Lady from Philadelphia.” — 1930's. Arturo Toscanini told her after a 1935 concert, “A voice like yours
is heard only once in a hundred years.” In 1955, she became the first Negro to sing at the Metropolitan
Opera. She is depicted in a mural in the Department of the Interior in Washington, commemorating her famous Easter Sunday
concert in 1939, when, denied the use of Constitution Hall because of her race, she sang from the steps of
the Lincoln Memorial before an outpouring of 75,000 people. She sang from those steps again in August 1963, during the
March for Freedom. Miss Anderson has given.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

The way that the cast is handling Shakespeare. They went through the stage where they were just reading the beautiful
words that Shakespeare wrote. They have passed through this and now we are beginning to see the character of the
subjects in the play.

MARIAN ANDERSON

Arena to local color, highlighted by “falling leaves and Goldwater stickers.” Perhaps facetiously he noted in closing the possibility that
a future President was sitting in the audience.

The presentation of Coriolanus on campus is in keeping with the celebration of Shakespeare’s 400th birthday anniversary. The play, which
has been described as a tragedy of an honest and a courageous man.

DISCUSS PROGRAM CHANGES

ROTC Colonel Visits

A somewhat different ROTC curriculum will be initiated next fall, and the Colonel wished to determine the cadre’s feelings toward
it. The new curriculum will place less emphasis on world affairs. Instead, more emphasis will be placed on leadership training.
Confidence will be the important factor that ROTC courses of the future will try to instill in cadets. Following this
discussion with the cadre,

students and available from your hall solicitor.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abbott
Hogan
Puckett
Fogleman
Abernethy
Hopkins
Secor
Partridge
Blackwell
King
Woods
Bliss
Meeks
Workman
Clark
Outlaw
Fredericksen

Male Chorus To Sing In Charlotte Opera

The Davidson College Male Chorus will be featured in the Charlotte Opera Association’s production of “The Tales of Hoffman” Monday
at 8:15 in Ovens Auditorium. A contralto soloist during the

At this, Fred Sackett arose—

Col. Ralph D. Crosby paid an informal visit to the Davidson ROTC Department on Monday. Col. Crosby is commander of
the Continental Army Command ROTC program. He came to discuss changes in the current ROTC program. At a morning meeting,
the Colonel received a briefing by Cadet Brigade Commander Jim Ferguson and staff. This briefing informed the Colonel of the
various programs and operations currently undertaken by the Davidson ROTC brigade. Later, the Colonel commented on the work being done
by all involved with the program. Col. Crosby talked with President Grier Martin, and was the guest at a luncheon
with Cadet Commander Ferguson and the Cadet Battalion Commanders.

In the past few years, the Male Chorus has appeared in several operas with the association including “Rigoletto,” “Carmen,” and
“The Student Prince.” William McDonald of the New York City Opera Company will sing the leading role as Hoffman with
three members of the Male Chorus also being featured in principal roles. Rufus Hallmark as Nathaniel, Dupre Jones as Herman,
and Steve Bruce as Luther the barkeeper are backed up by remaining members of the Male Chorus in the opening
tavern scene of the opera. It is in this tavern that Hoffman (a character based on the German poet E.
T. A. Hoffman) meets with and tells stories to his student friends who habitually occupy the place. The Male Chorus
again returns in the final scene to end the production in the same setting. John McCrae is directing the production
for the Opera Association. Orchestral accompaniment for the production will be provided by members of the Charlotte Symphony. Tickets for
the production may be purchased by Davidson students for $1.50.

Secor Speaks Tuesday On What Else? - Politics
By AL CARSON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

On election day, Tuesday, Dr. Philip Secor, political science mentor, will treat Davidson to a wrap-up discussion of the national
political situation. His assembly program will center around comment on an article written for the Charlotte News, “Laugh and the
World Laughs With You.” Primarily a discourse on the electoral process and its relation to the candidates, the speech will
cover the “foregone conclusion” of L. B. J.’s victory, continuing to include the unusual aspect of humor and the present
campaign. Dr. Secor maintains that Johnson will win by a lot, because he has a sense of humor. Those enlightened
by a sense of humor will reject the “sourpusses” of the Goldwater faction. After his ill-fated prediction last spring that
Nelson Rockefeller would win the Republican nomination and the Presidential election, Dr. Secor has thoroughly studied all the current polls
and relies heavily upon them.

Enthusiastic approval from President D. Grier Martin. As a candid hint to contest entrants, Dr. Secor predicts that “Goldwater will
carry little of the South.” Instructions concerning the Sweepstakes, which will continue all day Tuesday, will preface the actual assembly
program. Dr. Secor and Davidson student, Derek Lindsley, will appear on WSOC radio and television’s election coverage. Lindsley will handle
IBM computer data for the Charlotte station, and Dr. Secor will serve as their political analyst. Both local and national
returns will be covered, with those of the state in the forefront.

Vote Republican Nov. 3
DAVIDSON YOUNG REPUBLICANS CLUB

William McDonald of the New York City Opera Company will sing the leading role as Hoffman with three members of
the Male Chorus also being featured in principal roles. Rufus Hallmark as Nathaniel, Dupre Jones as Herman, and Steve Bruce
as Luther the barkeeper are backed up by remaining members of the Male Chorus in the opening tavern scene of
the opera. It is in this tavern that Hoffman (a character based on the German poet E. T. A. Hoffman)
meets with and tells stories to his student friends who habitually occupy the place. The Male Chorus again returns in
the final scene to end the production in the same setting. John McCrae is directing the production for the Opera
Association. Orchestral accompaniment for the production will be provided by members of the Charlotte Symphony. Tickets for the production may
be purchased by Davidson students for $1.50.

Free Delivery
Jackson's Cleaners
Quick Service ... .. . No Extra Cost
Bring Your Cleaning And Shirts OR Contact Us
224 DUKE
Charlie Smith
Ed Rude

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

He’s carrying her away in his dashing ADLERS but he’s clean-white-sock, just the same. They're headed for the primrose path
but they'll wind up picking flowers. That’s knowing what to do and when to do it. That’s being clean-white-sock. An
attitude that colors everything you do no matter what color your socks. And you get it only from Adler. Here
all feet wear the Adler SC shrink controlled wool sock. Clean white or in eighteen colors. $1. The ADLER COMPANY,
CINCINNATI 24, OHIO. A Division of Burlington Industries.
