FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

IFC Announces Entertainment

There'll be a pot of entertainment gold waiting at the end of the rainbow for dance lovers when the top-notch Russian ballet and folk dance ensemble, the Raduga Dancers, appear in Chambers Auditorium. Raduga (pronounced RAH-du-gah) is the Russian word for rainbow, and the name was chosen especially for this star group of dancers and musicians as being the most descriptive of the troupe and its colorful program of song, music, and dance.

Raduga’s dazzling spectrum of talents includes classical ballet dancers drawn from the star rosters of such famous Russian companies as the Bolshoi Ballet, the Stanislavsky Theatre, and the Bolshoi International Company in Moscow; the Navoi Opera and Ballet Theatre in Tashkent, Uzbekistan; the State Academic Theatre of Opera and Ballet in Latvia; and the Bylorussian State Theatre. Folk dancing stars from such companies as the Moiseyev in Moscow will perform vibrant peasant dances, and favorite Russian songs will be sung by a top Russian contralto. A favorite accordion duo will present the music that has made it a top radio and recording attraction throughout Russia. A fleet-fingered Balalaika champion will play both classical and folk selections. Four athletic Georgian dancers will add their own brand of fire to this varied program which will be topped by a show-stopper from the frozen north—a wrestling match for solo soloist.

In making up its colorful program of dance, music, and song, the Raduga troupe has selected an unusual combination of Russian dance elements to be presented by star performers. Both classical ballet and exotic folk dances will give audiences a kaleidoscopic view of the rich and varied dance culture of Russia. Classical ballet came to Russia about 1735 by way of France and Italy and was a favorite entertainment in the court of the Czars. About fifty years before the First World War, Russia became the undisputed capital of the ballet world, and Russians brought new vigor to the dance through their strong theatrical sense and dramatic instincts. After the Revolution, it was thought that classical ballet might not properly reflect the proletarian views of the new Soviet regime, but slowly, as the government solidified its position, ballet was restored to its place in the forefront of Soviet arts and in the hearts of the Russian people. Today, the ballet companies of Moscow and Leningrad are famous throughout the world, and “Russian ballet” is a term synonymous with colorful, highly theatrical dance presentations.

Folk dancing, a part of all cultures, is a particularly rewarding experience when presented by dancers of the U.S.S.R. The Soviet Union can offer an unrivaled variety of such dances, since it recognizes 180 different national groups in the fifteen republics. As performed by members of the Raduga Dancers, they come alive with a vital athletic quality which still permits expression of simple poetry. The dancers of the Raduga company are champion exponents of both classical and folk dancing and are the headliners of their various Russian companies. The young Tartar dancer Shamil Yagudin is a star attraction of the Bolshoi Ballet in Moscow and is noted for the fire and dash of his performances in ballets by Khachaturian and Prokofiev, as well as in the more classical repertory.

On a par with the sterling talents of the Raduga dancers are the sparkling attractions chosen to complement the choreographic side of the troupe’s program. Accordion duo Nikolai Krilov and Anatole Shalaev are a staple of musical life in Russia through their many concert and radio appearances and recordings. The “bayan,” as the accordion is known in Russia, has always been a tremendously popular instrument, and Krilov and Shalaev are champions of the bayan. Their repertory again reflects the versatility demanded of the Raduga company. They play not only Russian popular and folk songs but also classical pieces and works by modern Soviet composers. They also serve as accompaniment to the songs sung by Zikina, who will offer a full complement of her most beloved folk melodies sung in a contralto voice which has made her beloved in Russia. No program of Russian music and dance would be complete—or honest—if it contained no balalaika music.

A brisk gridiron tilt, denouing in a Wildcat victory, could provide the punch for a great Homecoming on October 17. Should circumstances prove otherwise, the Artist Series and the Interfraternity Council have Coach Dole backstopped with supplementary entertainment. The Raduga Dancers, Ballet and Folk Ensemble are scheduled to open the weekend Friday night in Chambers Auditorium beginning at 8 p.m. A troupe of Russian entertainers, the Ensemble was selected by the Soviets from the country’s top rank of performers and is appearing throughout the United States. The show will be sponsored by the Artist Series.

Alumni, students, and guests are slated to picnic in the center of Patterson Fraternity Court beginning at 1 p.m. Saturday. The second annual outdoor luncheon is under the sponsorship of the Alumni Office. Davidson's Wildcats meet Richmond at 2 p.m. Saturday in Richardson Stadium and the 1954 Homecoming Queen will be crowned during halftime ceremonies. Following the game, most fraternities will hold receptions for alumni and guests, and the College Union will be open to visitors. Capping the weekend Saturday night, the IFC will present a dual concert featuring the Canadian folksing duo Ian & Sylvia and Sabicas, the internationally known flamenco guitarist. The three-hour concert will be a fitting end to the Homecoming festivities.

Regatta Tomorrow Afternoon

Pledge Regatta on Lake Norman Saturday. Pledges of the 12 fraternities and members of Link Manor will race in boats built with materials costing less than $5. All boats must be motorless without using regulation paddles or oars and must bear a rope with three balloons attached to serve as a marker in case of loss of the craft by sinking. The regatta, sponsored by the Interfraternity Council, will be in the swimming area of the lake campus at 1 p.m. and end at the college boat launching ramp. The first craft across the finish line, above or below water, will win.The program will begin at 7:30 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. Tickets for the IFC concert will go on sale in the College Union at a date to be announced next week.

Autumn Homecoming Weekend Offers Variety To Davidsonians, Dates

IRC: The Year Ahead

It is the opinion of the 1964-65 Interfraternity Council that the Fraternity System at Davidson College can and should play a vital and constructive role in the program of the college community. Fraternities have been accused, and perhaps understandably so in the past, of collective isolation from the mainstream of campus activity. This council believes that such separation from the extracurricular benefits offered by the Davidson community leads to stagnancy within the Fraternity System and renders our place in college life unjustifiable. For this reason, we intend to exploit whatever talent and whatever vision may be found within so important a segment of the student body as the collection of 12 fraternities. We will propose a program during the coming year whereby the Fraternity System, through the organization of the IFC, can contribute positively to the social, cultural, and educational advancement of our men within its ranks. We intend to fulfill this constitutional responsibility to the best of our ability within the limits of our budget and our opportunity.

The cornerstone of the program we offer is variety. We hope to involve the entire system in the active pursuit of scholarship and cultural appreciation, and in the enjoyment of high-quality entertainment. Socially, we have scheduled dances and concerts featuring entertainers in fields ranging from folk music to jazz, from rhythm and blues to big band. The complete schedule for the IFC year will be published in the next few weeks. We hope that tomorrow’s Pledge Regatta and the Homecoming Weekend outlined on this page will demonstrate the sincerity of our promises at the outset and will encourage the student body to share the enthusiasm with which the IFC approaches the 1964-65 school year.

—von Unwerth

Spanish Gypsy Sabicas Has Gift With Flamenco Guitar

Sabicas, the king of the Spanish guitar, is a prime example of a musical phenomenon—a natural artist, a master of his instrument, a man who became the world’s foremost flamenco guitarist. His is not the classic story of the aspiring artist who struggles for the money to pay for a musical education. Sabicas’ only teachers are an ear with perfect pitch, an amazing retentive mind, an innate rhythmic sense, and the age-old traditions of his people, and a God-given talent. For Sabicas is a Spanish Gypsy and to the Gypsy, the spirit of music comes as naturally as eating, breathing—life, or death.

As a child in his native Andalusia, Sabicas grew up among the music, dance, and colorful ways of his people, the Gitanos, as they are called in Spain. When Sabicas was five years old, he received his only lesson from an uncle who knew only two guitar chords. The boy played these two chords and soon began to learn more on his own. An artist was in the making. Three years later his mother, deciding the boy should have a more formal education, brought him before the best teacher in Pamplona who asked him to play. When the young Sabicas performed a fantastic run of notes on the guitar, the teacher accused them of making fun of him and ran mother and prodigy from the house. This was the extent of his formal training.

At the age of nine, Sabicas made his debut with the company of La Chelita at the El Dorado Theatre in Madrid. He later won first prize in a nationwide guitar competition and his professional career was launched. It was probably most fortunate for the world that this one artist never fell victim to academic routine, his agent reports. Had Sabicas entered a conservatory, he would most likely have graduated as just another good guitar player among the many hundreds in Spain. As a self-taught musician, Sabicas was able to retain that natural spark of the Gypsy, the fire and the exotic blending of beauty and savagery that is true flamenco.

The origin of flamenco is as mysterious as the origin of the gypsy himself. Subtle influences are there of the music of India and Arabia tempered with native Spanish folk material. What results in flamenco is a highly individual expression full of vivid coloring, uninhibited emotion—by turns violent and caressing, brutal and spiritual.

SABICAS
Billed as the king of the Spanish guitar.

Ian And Sylvia Pioneer New Folk Music Stage

Well-educated and articulate, Ian and Sylvia are among the pioneers in a new stage of folk music, one that is both popular and culturally respected. Sylvia, a folklore scholar, grew up in a small Canadian town near Toronto. Ian is a graduate of the University of British Columbia, where he was a fine arts major. Their recordings met with warm and enthusiastic response. Both Ian and Sylvia have devoted much time and energy to developing their unusual musical skills and their understanding of the emotions and nuances of their chosen medium. Not only is their vocal style unique and clearly individual, but Ian’s guitar style has been compared with that of the world’s best folk guitarists.

In this age of often transient stars, Ian and Sylvia represent a refreshing, youthful dedication to their art not often encountered outside of the world of the classics or drama. Reviewer John Pagones of The Washington Post reported: “The young Canadian team... are a dazzling looking couple, a condition which the younger folk singing fans seem to demand. Sylvia is an absolute smasher and Ian, so I overheard a pair of female fans say, is something special, too.

“It is Ian who carries the bulk of the show. He plays lead guitar, for the most part; he sings the melody, he has a lion’s share of the solos and he provides the continuity throughout. There is precious little time in between each number to establish a personality but Ian is a master of making each moment count. He is intelligently witty (only he and Sylvia can attest to its spontaneity), his approach is fresh, and I for one could listen to this kind of gab all night.

“They present a well-balanced show, blending heavy rhythm with fortissimo, standard tunes with the lesser-known Canuck ones.”