| FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1964 | Benchwarming | By BILL BRIGGS Assistant Sports Editor A TASTE OF VICTORY Writing about a football game a week after it has been played is about like scratching a place that doesn’t itch. It seems pointless. Pointless or not, I think that last week's football game is the only sporting news that deserves any extensive comments now. Considering I didn't even go to the game, I feel a little like a traitor writing about it. And since I wasn’t there, an objective, eye-witness account might be a bit of a farce, so I'll try a little different angle. There was no doubt that Davidson would lose last Saturday. Heckard was out. His replacement Jacobsen had been considerably less than Fasc in his only appearance (two plays) as a varsity quarterback. The Wildcats had been considerably less than wild in all their games since the Mississippi College opening victory. Furman was hungry for a win. Comparative scores showed that the Paladins had beaten a full-strength PC team and managed to stop the ’Cats with an injured quarterback. You could have gotten three touchdowns and Davidson with any betting man. There was no way... no way. But something happened. I’m not sure what; I doubt anyone is. From what I've heard and read, apparently someone forgot to tell the football team that victory was impossible. I missed the most inspired, spirited effort by a Davidson football team since I came to Davidson two years ago. No matter what the need for scholarships, a revitalized program, or an easier schedule, some things can’t be entirely explained. So last Saturday, when Davidson's freshman football team lost a squeaker to Gardner Webb in Cherryville last Saturday by 14-7, although the Wildkittens dominated most of the game. Commented Assistant Coach Campbell, “If we could have played the first 10 minutes like we did the last 10, we would have won.” He praised his boys for this effort saying, “I think it shows we weren't about to give up.” The Wildkittens finally got moving in the second half, pushing Gardner Webb all over the field. They scored in the third quarter on a 25-yard pass from Billy Taylor to Kim Johnson. Pete Glidewell kicked the extra point and the Kittens were back in the ball game.

Sigs Cream Taus; Chis Take Second By PALMER KIRKPATRICK, JR. Davidsonian Sports Writer A show of well-balanced strength enabled the Sigma Chi’s to move into the second slot in the flickerball standings by smashing three opponents this past week, but the unbeaten Kappa Sigs continued to steamroller their way to the top. In what may have been one of the highest scoring games in recent IMAC history, the Phi Gams out-tallied the Independents by the incredible score of 65-43. Instead of having been what obviously seemed to have been an offensive game, the comments rather put the credit to “slack defense” on both sides. The SAE’s proved that the law of averages means nothing when they won their second straight game in sudden death playoff, this time against the Phi Gams. With the score standing at 7-7, the SAE's outgained the Phi Gams in the playoff to gain the victory. George Brewer caught a 10-yard pass and scampered 30 yards to give the SAE’s their longest gain in the playoff. Ronnie Hunt was the most outstanding Delt, having scored all three TD's and being credited with a great pass defense performance. Bill Ross and Mike Thurmond were outstanding for the Delts and Gene Farris was instrumental in the Betas’ offense. The Chi’s trounced the Betas by a score of 48-13 on the strength of a fast start in which the Kappas pulled a quick 7-0 lead and managed to stop the Betas thereafter. Randy McKnight was credited with three of the touchdowns. Jack Sherrill to Mac Otts pass about midway in the first half gave the Betas the only score of the game. Jim Simmons was noted as standout for the Betas on defense. The ATO’s were greatly outmaneuvered in a battle with the Kappa Sigs as the league leaders trampled the ATO’s 40-6. Buddy DuBose, along with Raymond Garrison, Larry Compton, Jamie Bryant, and Tommy Reams were the key KS ball movers. The ATO's made their only tally on a short pass from Pat Hubbard to Dave Townsend. The Sigma Chi's downed the Pikas 6-0. Basil Hicks intercepted three Pika passes and was credited with a fine defensive fight. The Phi Delts made both their scores on punt returns. The Kappa Sigs rolled over the KA’s by a score of 43-6. Buddy Durham, KA tailback, found it difficult to maneuver against the KS defense.to compete it was like it was over again, we would have 3 mm —, offense “yin In an e Delts’ 9 yard line but were un- with the Sig protege, Buddy: Pepe arg killed them.” A defensive game all the way, the able in Spare dust the hope of victory is like electricity in the air. At Carolina, Duke, State, even Wake Forest, something can be felt in the pregame atmosphere that has always been missing in Davidson. A hope for victory, an inexplicable static that prickles your skin with something other than the crisp, fall weather. A hope that makes people really want to see a football game. We've all forgotten what this is like.

So we were surprised Saturday. And happy and proud to be surprised. Still, we all long for a time when victory won't be a surprise, and its anticipation can hover over the campus like that skin-prickling static.

But regardless of what we feel will happen, we cannot deny or belittle what has happened. It was great to win, especially over Furman.

Brakel Scores 4 In 5-0 Win
Booters Kick Campbell
By MIKE MOOTY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s soccer team upped its record to 6-2 last Tuesday night, shutting out the Campbell College roundballers 5-0. Playing their first night game before a crowd of 1500, the Wildcats gave the cheerleaders from Buies Creek little to shout about. Led by the amazing Jan Brakel, the Wildcats made perhaps their finest showing of the year.

Brakel upped his record goal total to 24, pumping in three goals and a penalty kick. Bob Bethel added the other point for the ‘Cats. Junior fullback Gus Brown also turned in a fine performance for the Red and Black. John Barnhardt played a fine game at the goalie spot, saving nine shots and a penalty kick. The Davidson goalies, Barnhardt and Kem Anderson, have been exceptionally tough in the past two outings, blocking three penalty shots between them.

Fogleman accredited the victory to a fine team effort, “The whole team hustled,” he said. “We went after them the entire match.” He was quick to point out Brakel’s fine performance, however, and added that “Bob Bethel played the finest game of his career.”

Campbell's Venezuelan ace, Robert Gentilini, was thwarted the whole night by the Davidson defense. The Wildcat offense pressed hard through the entire match, forcing the Campbell goalie to pull out 21 saves. Fogleman summed it up, “We played a fine game, both ways.”

The Campbellites, previously boasting a 6-1 record, proved to be a rough opponent. Davidson suffered several minor injuries. No one was seriously injured, however, and the team is expected to be at full strength next Friday. 

Rendezvous in St. Andrews this Friday night in what should be an easy match for the ‘Cats. In fact, it is becoming more apparent that Coach Fogleman is not being overly optimistic in saying, “If we hustle like we have in the last two matches, it will take a tough team to beat us."

Varsity Roster
Barry St. Clair, 6-1, 165, soph., Princeton, W. Va.
Dick Byrd, 5-10, 160, soph., Richmond, Ind.
Barry Teague, 5-11, 160, sr., Madisonville, Ky.
Charlie Marcon, 6-3, 190, sr., Bethlehem, Pa.
Phil Squier, 6-0, 165, sr., Branchville, N. J.
Fred Hetzel, 6-8, 230, sr., Washington, D. C.
Stuart Burness, 6-4, 200, jr., Scotch Plains, N. J.
Dick Snyder, 6-5, 201, jr., North Canton, Ohio
Don Davidson, 6-5, 190, sr., Salem, Ohio
Ronnie Stone, 6-3, 180, jr., Kernersville, N. C.
Paul Briggs, 6-5, 180, sr., Reidsville, N. C.
Cam Harkness, 6-3, 175, jr., Acton, Ind.

Freshman Roster
Scott Sinnock, 6-3, 175, Newcastle, Ind.
Pinky Hatcher, 6-0, 175, Columbus, Ga.
George Leight, 6-4, 185, Winston-Salem, N. C.
Rodney Knowles, 6-9, 225, Greenville, N. C.
Cecil Clifton, 6-1, 158, Avondale Estates, Ga.
Bobby Lane, 6-4, 188, New Orleans, La.
Tommy Clayton, 5-11, 155, Madisonville, Ky.
Tom Youngdale, 6-10, 230, Peru, Ill.

Charlotte at Singing goes better refreshed. And Coca-Cola — with that special zing but never too sweet — refreshes best.

ADLERS
He’s carrying her away in his dashing clean-white-sock. They're headed for the primrose path but they'll wind up picking flowers. That's knowing what to do and when to do it. That’s being clean-white-sock. An attitude that colors everything you do no matter what color your socks. And you get it only from Adler. Here all feet wear the Adler SC shrink controlled wool sock. Clean white or in eighteen colors. $1, Adler Company, Cincinnati 14, Ohio. A Division of Burlington Industries.

La Roma Ristoranti
Best Pizza West of Italy
La Roma
1540 West Boulevard at Remount Road
Phone 376-2576
Charlotte, N.C.

Rush Wilson Ltd.