PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1964

YMCA To Sponsor Jonas’ Campus Visit

Charles Raper Jonas, North Carolina Republican representative to Congress from the Eighth District, will be the speaker in chapel Monday under the sponsorship of the YMCA Great Issues program.

A native of North Carolina, Jonas attended the University of North Carolina where he received his AB and JD degrees. He was president of his class, member of Golden Fleece, and Editor-in-Chief of the North Carolina Law Review.

Rep. Jonas is currently engaged in the race for re-election against Dr. W. D. James. James has attacked Jonas’s voting record as being negative and completely out of step with the rest of the North Carolina delegation.

On the national scene, Jonas publicly supported Sen. Goldwater prior to his nomination at the Republican Convention. This does not necessarily mean that Jonas supports all of Goldwater's platform or political concepts.

Jonas began practicing law in Lincolnton in 1928 and continued his practice in state and federal courts. During World War II he served five years in the Army. In 1952 he was elected to Congress from the Eighth District. He is a past president of the North Carolina Bar Association and member of the North Carolina Board of Law Examiners. Jonas is admitted to practice law in all North Carolina courts as well as the District of Columbia and the United States Supreme Court.

In the House of Representatives, Jonas has served on the House Appropriations Committee, the committee responsible for scrutinizing all spending the Federal Government seeks to disburse. All requests for the Space Agency, the entire construction program of the armed services, and 22 other government agencies come under this committee. Should the Republicans win control of Congress, Jonas would be chairman of one of the important subcommittees. If the Democrats remain in control, he would be a ranking minority member of the same subcommittee. In either event, he would remain a senior member of the committee.

CHARLES R. JONAS Will Speak Monday

While in Congress, Jonas has compiled a voting record of answering on 98 percent of all roll call votes over a 12-year period. One of the issues and bills he supported is the textile support bill which was sponsored by the administration and opposed by a majority of Republicans in the House. Jonas served as an informal floor leader for Republican support. Jonas also voted for the National Defense and Education Act, the Wilderness Act, several amendments to the Social Security Acts, an excise tax reduction, the Liberty Service Act, and a mental health program.

Jonas voted against the Civil Rights Bill recently passed by Congress as well as the administration’s Anti-Poverty Bill. He did vote for a substitute bill to the Anti-Poverty Bill which differed in cost and placed more direction in the hands of the governors. On the issue of Medicare, he supported the Kerr-Mills Bill. The Food Stamps Program got an emphatic negative vote from Jonas.

Rev. Sherrard Rice Vespers Speaker

The Rev. J. Sherrard Rice, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Columbia, S.C., will preach at vespers Sunday. Rice, a Davidson graduate, attended Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, and Princeton Theological Seminary, where he earned his ThM. Before going to Columbia in 1959, Rice held pastorates in Huntington, W. Va., and Tyler, Tex., and was a chaplain in the U.S. Navy. He is the author of Let There Be Light, a study of Genesis.

Babcock Explains What Conservatives Expect

By LINDSAY DAVIS Davidsonian Feature Writer

Giles Randolph Babcock leveled the guns of Republicanism at the Davidson student body and fired salvo after salvo of major issues. Babcock spoke at assembly Monday sponsored by the Conservative Club in an address entitled “What the Conservative Expects.”

Babcock explained his concepts of the pressing questions of the 1964 election campaign. The major portion of his explanation involved attacks on the policies of the present and preceding administration. The speaker put forward two questions that he felt were crossing party lines and hit at the core of the nation’s philosophy of government. “Will we,” he asked, “continue to enjoy our God-given freedom? Or will we fall into the depths of welfarism?” He elaborated to say that the liberals are destroying the sovereignty of the individual by promising security without responsibility and guaranteeing work without skill. In contrast, Babcock stated that the Republicans believe in a man “working and not voting for a living, and encourage self-reliance.”

The liberal government, Babcock said, relies upon the gullibility of the people for support of its programs to promote a better standard of living by subsidy from the government. He declared that such programs contradict their purpose because the “all-powerful government cannot produce wealth, for it must take money from the people” to finance them. Production comes from business, science, and technology, not from the government. “Thy brother’s keeper” is a liberal slogan, stated the speaker, saying that it was nothing but a “vote-buying scheme. Some people expect to work for a living, others just have to vote for a living,” Babcock said.

He quoted an example of the failure of one of the promises of the Democrats in the 1960 campaign, which stated that 17 million Americans were hungry and they want to be fed. Babcock followed this up by quoting a liberal promise during this year's Presidential campaign: 35 million are now hungry and steps will be taken to feed them.

The speaker's argument was confined chiefly to attacks on the policies of the present administration in domestic and foreign affairs. He cited several examples of “poor judgment and bad management.” High on his list of antagonisms was the recent push for an Anti-Poverty bill, which proposed to spend $1 billion, while there are already 38 different programs, spending a total of $42 billion in welfare and public help. He stated that the conservatives are opposed to such “squandering of tax dollars.” Babcock noted that overindulgence of small business had virtually failed in every respect, and that these enterprises were rapidly disappearing.

The farms are another problem that Babcock felt should be solved in another way than that which the liberals advocate. He recognized the need for security for the farmers but noted that small farms receive only 7 percent of the subsidy, while the large farms receive the major portion. He also observed that the number of farms had decreased from 6.8 to 3.7 million in the last decade.

Foreign aid, according to Babcock, is another sore spot for conservatives. He stated that immediately following the Bolshevik revolution in Russia, the leaders of the United States set out to “save the world from Communism.” Since that time, this country has spent over $150 billion in foreign aid to accomplish this purpose; as a result, 31 percent of the nations of the world are under Communist rule.

As a remedy for these situations, Babcock offered his choice of a Presidential candidate, Barry Goldwater. He pointed to Goldwater's “fresh approach to campaigning” and honesty. Babcock brought forth examples of this honesty: Goldwater urging the sale of the Tennessee Valley Authority property in a speech in Tennessee; his opposition to Medical Care for the aged in an address to elderly people in St. Petersburg, Fla.; and his rivalry to the rewarding of the TFX airplane contract in Texas in a talk to a group of Texans.

FOUR CANDIDATES

The Editor of the Wildcat Handbook for the year 1965-66 will be elected next Tuesday. Juniors Allen Webb, Britt Snider, Danny Boone, and Rocky Walker will be the candidates. This year’s election marks a departure from the established procedure in that only one of the candidates in this election is presently a member of the Handbook staff. In previous years only staff members ran for this office, but the Student Council was obliged to open the candidacy when only one member of the old staff expressed a desire to run. This election is usually held early in the year in order that planning can get underway for the upcoming edition well in advance of the fall term. The Wildcat Handbook finds wide use throughout the year, and especially during Rush Week as it contains much vital information.

ALLEN WEBB

I believe the Wildcat Handbook has two notable responsibilities—first, to introduce the freshman to Davidson College, to answer his questions before arrival and to help him adjust to his new environment; and second, to furnish useful information to the entire student body. With these responsibilities in mind, I feel that the last two editions of the Handbook have come closer to fulfilling this purpose than any published before them. Tim Kimrey, editor of the 1963-64 Handbook, changed the handbook’s viewpoint from the attitude of the Administration’s orienting incoming freshmen to that of the present student's orienting the new freshmen. I believe this approach is superior to any other.

To make this student's point of view a more genuine reflection of student body opinion, I will assign each section to a different member of the staff. I feel also the quality of the writing should improve with the diversity. I will retain the general format of last year’s edition and will continue to list freshmen room numbers under their names and pictures. I do believe, however, that several sections can be improved, notably the ones in athletics and religion. All editorial comments will appear in italics. Also, I want to...Employ more artwork and replace the photographs of some members of the administration. Of course, the handbook will always be open to improvement. I will welcome any suggestions from the student body for additions or deletions. Also, I will appreciate criticism concerning what was liked and not liked about last year’s handbook. Although it is difficult to be creative with something like the handbook, whose primary function is to provide information, I will concentrate on its readability. To emphasize the handbook's use to upperclassmen as well as to freshmen, I will put all phone numbers, including those of dormitories at women's colleges, in an easy-to-find section of the handbook. Also, I would like to provide a detachable calendar of events for this year. I feel that my experience with a high school newspaper, as editor of a high school annual, and as a reporter for and Copy Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN qualifies me for this position. I will appreciate your support.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
Best Pizza West of Italy
La Roma Ristoranti
1540 West Boulevard at Remount Road
Phone 376-2576
Charlotte, N. C.

DANNY BOONE

Two years ago, a previously dry and stilted Freshman Handbook was revitalized with two purposes in mind: to provide a realistic and personal introduction to Davidson College for the incoming freshmen and to furnish convenient information for all members of the student body. In my opinion, the first consideration of the 1967 Wildcat Handbook is to maintain the quality and scope of the previous two handbooks and at the same time attempt to improve them by revision and addition. There are several specific alterations that I, as a candidate for editor, have in mind. First, clarification of actual Rush procedure and revision of “Rush Hints” are needed to clear up misunderstandings that the freshmen have encountered. A particularly weak point has been the vintage and quality of freshman pictures. This could be notably improved by merely sending a letter informing freshmen that the pictures they send will be used in the handbook. I plan to continue the inclusion of freshmen room numbers. Another area which needs to be expanded is the Extra-Curricula section. Many students are completely ignorant of organizations on campus that they would be interested in if only they were aware of them. A final area that needs further major improvements is the Athletic section. The student body deserves a more realistic appraisal of the athletic teams and the prospects for the coming year. Athletic schedules, insofar as they have been completed at publication, should be included. One other aspect of editor, that of the relationship with the printer, has often been overlooked. In the past, a certain lack of dependability on the part of the printer has been encountered, and I will attempt to remedy those past difficulties or to investigate other possible publishing houses. One of the major difficulties was the problem of securing an accurate estimate of publishing costs. From my experience on the staff as a freshman and as associate editor last year, I hope that I have gained a broader understanding of the mechanics of editing, the relationship with the printer, and of the financial aspects in order that I might publish a more personalized Wildcat Handbook that will be of real use and help to the Davidson student body.

Webb from Atlanta is a member of Sigma Chi. He has worked with the track team and is copy editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. A French major, he plans a career in government work or teaching. A native of Rocky Mount, Snider now lives in Salisbury. He is a history major planning a career in law. A member of Pi Kappa Alpha, he is on the Honor Court and the DAVIDSONIAN staff. Boone is a pre-med major from Newnan, Ga., and is a member of Alpha Tau Omega. He served as associate editor for this year’s Wildcat Handbook. Walker is a member of Sigma Chi and is from Sarasota, Fla. A history major seeking a career in law, he served on the Freshman Council. He is secretary-treasurer of the IFC.

BRITT SNIDER

To my mind, the Wildcat Handbook serves three purposes: to acquaint incoming freshmen with campus life at Davidson, to serve as a guide for upperclassmen during rush, and as a reference for students during the year. In years past, a basic format has been laid down to accomplish these purposes, and at present, I can foresee no real change in this per se. My aim, as editor, would be toward quality rather than any wholesale change. One of the best innovations in the Wildcat Handbook in the past two years and one which I think deserves implementation in the ‘65 Handbook is the inclusion of various editorial comments by the staff. Such comments, as the advice-to-freshmen section last year, often give a clearer, more pertinent picture of campus life than simply the inclusion of rules and regulations. If the budget permits, I would also like to see more pictures used in the ‘65 Handbook. In the past, pictures which were used have often meant little, such as the headshots of the student council; while highlights of the year, such as Homecoming and basketball, have often lacked pictorial expression. Better use of pictures and, if possible, an increase in their number would be a definite improvement in next year’s Handbook. Finally, I also plan, if elected, to continue the policy of listing freshmen room numbers under the individual snapshots. In conclusion, I must confess that I have had no previous experience on the Handbook staff, but, nevertheless, I am well acquainted with the printing operation and problems involved in publication, having worked for my hometown and high school newspapers for several years. I will appreciate your consideration and support.

VOTE Johnson-Humphrey
VOTE DEMOCRATIC (NOV. 3rd)

Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

ROCKY WALKER

The avowed purpose of past “Wildcat Handbooks” has been to be an orientation guide for the incoming freshmen and a reference volume for upperclassmen. As an aid in orientation, the “Handbook” has been invaluable, but as reference material for the upper classes, it has been lacking in certain areas. The upper classes use the “Handbook” mainly during rush week. A list of the freshmen and their roommates, by halls, included at the end of the freshmen section would be of great help during dorm rush. The inclusion of rushing hours, and, if possible, the orientation schedule would be useful to upperclassmen as well as freshmen. In the area of reference, a compact summary of the student body regulations (such as chapel cut limits) in addition to the whole body of rules would eliminate the need of trying to cut through the mire of the complete list of regulations. Again, this would aid the freshmen too. Improvements which would be of aid to the freshmen lie mainly in the area of social life and fraternities. A summary of rush week procedure (confirmation, etc.) compiled by the IFC rush chairman would familiarize the freshmen with rush and make it run more smoothly. A better Charlotte map, pointing out good night spots, such as The Three Brothers, would be of more aid than the present one which locates the Charlotte PO and NCNB. A clear-cut definition of the drinking rule and the honor offenses printed in bold type could perhaps keep many of the class of 1969 with us longer than two months. These are the improvements that I feel would be of value to both the incoming freshmen and the upperclassmen. I would include them along with the good innovations of the past and sound suggestions of others in the 1966 “Wildcat Handbook” to make it more useful to the entire campus.

COPATS AND "COMET" ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS WHICH IDENTIFY ONLY THE PRODUCT OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY.

Things go better refreshed. And Coca-Cola gives you that big, bold taste. Always just right, never too sweet... refreshes best.

Better with Coke

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by:
THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD