PAGE FOUR

LUIS MANRARA, Executive Director and President of the Truth About Cuba Committee, gave his explanation and analysis of the Cuban
situation this week. Manrara outlined Cuba's descent into Communism and termed the global Communist blueprint for subjugation “right on schedule.”
He further noted, “The so-called rift between Soviet Russia and Red China is only a deliberate hoax planned by the
Communist conspiracy.” Manrara fled Castro’s Cuba in August 1960. (See article on page two.) (Staff Photo by Smith)

CLAIMS HENGEVELD

During the last two years, the registrar has systematically promoted an exam schedule not just for the sake of having
exams on the last day of the semester after semester. Prior to the adoption of the present method, exams were
arranged by classes rather than courses, i.e., Bible 11, English 21, Psychology 31, etc., at the same exam period. But
this often led to terrible conflicts for the students, and some professors would have five and six exams on the
same day. Hengeveld pointed out that they have kept for years exact records of the number of students having classes
each year. And the rotation of a set schedule, although sometimes causing congestion, has proved to keep the pressure lowest
for the most students.

The registrar also mentioned three other factors which should help relieve some of the exam burden on students. First, the
exam schedules are available far in advance of exams so that students can plan their studying to meet their particular
needs. Second, as most students probably know, it is possible to change an exam period by taking an exam with
another section of the same course. Finally, a one-day reading period (May 19) will precede this spring’s exams; this will
give students a day and a half with no classes to prepare for the exams. This last improvement was suggested
by the student member of the scheduling committee. This faculty committee of four faculty members—Dr. J. T. Drake, Dean Frontis
Johnston, John Bailey, and Dr. T. S. Logan—and one student council-appointed representative meets twice a year to discuss curriculum planning
and it welcomes student suggestions.

Hengeveld was asked if there was no possibility of using the IBM computer to construct a schedule during which no
student would have two exams on one day. He said that this could be done—but that it would involve lengthening
the school year by about two weeks.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE

WED. A.M. Third hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
May 20 P.M. Fourth hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

THURS. A.M. Fourth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
May 21 P.M. Fifth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

FRI. A.M. First hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
May 22 P.M. Sixth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

SAT. A.M. First hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
May 23 P.M. Second hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

MON. A.M. Second hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
May 25 P.M. ROTC 12, 22, 32, 42

TUES. A.M. Third hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
May 26 P.M. Fourth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

WED. A.M. Fifth hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
May 27 P.M. Sixth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

THURS. A.M. First hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

ELECTIONS RESULTS

STUDENT COUNCIL
President: Will Jackson
First Vice President: Andy Little
Second Vice President: Bill Council
Secretary-Treasurer: Tom Frist
Freshman Advisor: John Barrow

HONOR COURT
Class of '65: Steve Davidson, Steve Ramsburgh
Class of '66: John Burks, Eric Nichols
Class of '67: Lloyd Davidson, Steve Humphrey

CLASS OFFICERS
Class of '65
President: Fred Sackett
Vice-President: Tommy Heffner
Secretary-Treasurer: Don Davidson
Representatives: Charlie Marshall, David Walker

Class of '66
President: David Powell
Vice-President: Arnie Snider
Representative: Billy Clark

Class of '67
President: Chuck Matthews
Representative: Johnny Gresham

COLLEGE UNION
President: Steve Bunch
YMCA President: Lanier Burns
Vice President: Eric Nichols
Treasurer: Mac Otts
Secretary: Barry St. Clair

PUBLICATIONS EDITORS
Scripts 'n Pranks: Pete Crow
Quips and Cranks: Zach Long
THE DAVIDSONIAN: Charles Dibble

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Bailey, Hunt, Maloney, Plott, Cumming, Johnston, Minter, Schenck, Campbell, McGeachy, Pierce, Smith

BY BOB HOLLADAY

Poet Robert Watson announced in chapel period Tuesday that John Pruitt was the first-place winner of the Vereen M. Bell
Memorial Prize for Creative Writing for his short story, “Shroud of Victory.” Pruitt is a senior from Atlanta, Ga. His
winning entry is a story of the friendship between two high school track team members. Before announcing the winners, Watson,
who is associate professor of English at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, read a poem from his published
book, A Paper Horse, and four other poems. As judge of the contest, Watson commended the authors of the manuscripts
that he had read for the high quality of their work. He cited for first-place honorable mention Tom Loflin’s story
“The Puppet Monkey” and for second-place Greg Govan’s “A Carpet of Winter Grass.”

The fund for the prize was established in memory of Vereen M. Bell, a Davidson graduate in the class of
1932 who published numerous short stories and a novel, and who was killed in action during World War II. Watson’s
best-received poem, “Success,” appears in the same issue of the magazine as Professor Ernest F. Patterson and Dabney Stuart, a
1960 Davidson graduate and now a member of the faculty of The College of William and Mary.

BY PAUL SIMPSON

“They must make out the exam schedule by drawing from a hat,” is the cry often heard. “How else could
I have four exams in two days?” This is an unreasonable exam schedule. The man who is primarily responsible for
scheduling, Registrar F. M. Hengeveld, has cleared up a few popular misconceptions: exams are set up on a pattern that
has proved the most efficient for over 10 years. A rotating plan is used, the two periods having exams on
the last day of exams at the end of one semester have their exams on the first day of exams
the next semester. Hengeveld said that “this is the simplest method for avoiding conflicts and congestion among students and for
preventing certain professors from having their exams on the same day semester after semester.”

Newly elected Steve Ramsburgh and Steve Davidson will join Dick Bates, Mac Mays, and Ronnie Reese as senior representatives. Other
new court members include rising juniors John Burks and Eric Nichols and rising sophomores Lloyd Davidson and Steve Humphrey. The
other junior representative is Brett Snider.

An international singing and dance troupe known as the Echos will perform in Chambers Auditorium at 8 p.m. on Friday,
April 17. Comprised of the Four Ayalons, singing comics, and the Elkayam Sisters, two folk dancers, the Echos feature song,
humor, dances, and satire. The Elkayam Sisters, performing with the Ayalons for the first time on this tour, are part
of a modern Israeli students’ organization. During the last two years, the Ayalons have enjoyed particular success performing before audiences
in New York, Boston, Miami, and other cities. They have played at Carnegie Hall and on the Ed Sullivan television
show.Monday, Wednesday, Friday] McMullen said, ‘so the success May 28 P.M. Third hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday | can be
attributed to him.” Faculty Shifts Holidays, Institutes Reading Day The Davidson College activities. Dr. J. T. Drake, academic calendar for
the professor of sociology and chair: school year 1964-65, as ap- man of the Academic Schedul- proved in its skeleton
form ing Committee, told THE DAV. last October by the faculty, IDSONIAN, “If we had carried incorporates two changes in
on as we did—making adjust- its traditional rounds of ments for the one day differ- registrations, vacations, and ence between
the calendars—it examinations. might have been a little early Classes will commence a compared with other schools.” week later than
has been usual, Christmas vacation, which and a free “reading period” day lasted three weeks under this has been scheduled
before each year's calendar, will be short- series of semester examina- ened to a little over two weeks. tions. Discussing
the week's delay in the beginning of next year's Keith McMullen, a member of the Elections Board, had praise for
MacDonald's hand- ling of the election details. “Walt’s put a lot of time and Spring holidays will again be extended
over two weekends. Student opinion was a main reason for the decision to es- tablish a free day before exam-
inations. ‘Students have been asking for it,’ said Dr. Drake; “and there is indication that there will be proper use
of it— without going to the beaches. Both study days are scheduled on Tuesdays, and I must admit there must
have been a little malice aforethought.” CALENDAR 1964-65 Memorial Services Held For Mrs. Dole ___Mrs. Helen Dole, 52, wife of
Coach William E. Dole, died in a local hospital last week after a long illness. The memorial service, held at
3 p.m. last Friday in the David- son College Presbyterian Church, was conducted by the pastor, Rev. Curtis P. Harper
and Rev. Tom Cutting, pastor of the Providence Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Mrs. Dole, a native of Beck- ley, W.
Va., graduated from the University of West Virginia and taught there from 1933 through 1937. She later taught at East
Carolina College in Greenville and Concord College in West Virginia. Long active in church work, Mrs. Dole became the first
president of the Women of the Church at Davidson in the fall of 1954. She later served as president of
the Concord Wom- en of the Church and Concord Presbytery, and president of the North Carolina Synodical for the Davidson
College Church from 1958 through 1962, direct- ing the synodical training school for Presbyterian Women of the North Carolina Synod.
However, her activities were not confined only to church work. In 1960 she trained a group of Girl Scouts in
folk Sept. 10-15 Orientation. Sept. 14-15 Re-examinations. Sept. 14 Faculty meeting. Sept. 14-15 Registration. Sept. 16 Wednesday. Classes begin. Nov.
25 Wednesday, 4:30. Thanksgiving begins. Nov. 30 Monday, 8:20. Thanksgiving ends. Dec. 19 Saturday, 12:10. Christmas holidays begin. Jan. 4
Monday, 8:20. Christmas holidays end. dancing and planned the cos- Jan. 18 Monday. Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday tumes for a class
play at North — classes held. Mecklenburg High School where Jan. 19 Tuesday. Pre-exam study day. her son Bill was
in attendance. Jan. 20 Wednesday. Examinations begin. ing for the football team her Jan. 28 Thursday. Examinations end. husband coached.”
She attend- Jan. 29-31 Semester break. ed all the games with him until Feb. 1 Monday, 8:20. Second semester begins.
the time of her illness. March 27 Saturday, 12:10. Spring recess begins. Survivors, in addition to her April 5 Monday,
8:20. Recess ends. husband and son, are her mother, Mrs. George Williams of Beck- May 24 Monday. Wednesday, Friday ley,
W. Va., and three sisters, May 25 Tuesday. Pre-exam study day. Mrs. Ralph Amick of Beckley, May 26 Wednesday. Examinations
begin. W. Va., Mrs. Kenneth Allen of June 3 Thursday. Examinations end. Cleveland, Ohio, and Mrs. June 5-6 Commencement. William
Rogers of Akron, June 11 Friday. Re-examinations. Ohio. In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet At the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C. Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M.
Till 9:00 P.M. Poet Announces Pruitt Winner Of Bell Award JOHN PRUITT Takes Vereen Bell Prize Army Brass Here Tuesday
BY BOB ADAMS. Dr. Marcus Bloch, L-Hy President Col. Warren A. Thrasher and his staff will conduct the annual Department
of the Army ROTC inspection of Davidson's entire military contingent, next Tuesday, April 1. The inspectors will begin their tour
at 8 a.m. with a briefing from Lt. Col. P. R. Wheaton and then will undertake a comprehensive inspection. The
tour will be concluded by the inspectors giving a critique of their findings at 3 p.m. New York 9, N.
Y. MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. During the day Col. Thrasher, representing the
commanding general, XI U.S. Army Corps, will meet President Martin and have lunch with members of the college administration. The
thorough inspection re- views cadet leadership, disci- pline, and appearance, as well as cadet permanent records. During first four drill,
there will be an inspection of the cadet corps in ranks. In addi- tion, classes and the armory will be
inspected. Col. Thrasher and his staff will also inspect training man- agement, administrative rec- ords, the rifle range, and the
flight training program. In previous annual inspec- tions, Davidson has consistent- ly received the highest rating offered. PIZZA and SPAGHETTI:
SUMMER JOBS for STUDENTS NEW '64 directory lists 20,000 summer job open- ings in 50 states. MALE or FEMALE: Unprecedented
research for students includes exact pay rates and job details. Names employers and their ad- dresses for hiring in industry,
summer camps, na- tional parks, resorts, etc., etc., etc. Hurry, jobs filled early! Send two dollars. Satisfaction guaran- teed. Send
to: Summer Jobs Directory—P. O. Box 13593—Phoenix, Arizona. Montfort Returns For Vespers Talk Dr. Russell T. Montfort, for- mer pastor
of the Davidson Methodist Church, will be guest minister for the Sunday evening vespers service. Now studying under a Dan-
forth grant for an MA degree in contemporary theology, specifically the relationship of faith to the fine arts, Montfort holds
degrees from Kentucky Wesleyan College and Duke University Divinity School. He was award- ed an honorary DD from David- son
in 1956. After being graduated from Duke, Montfort served two pas- torates before coming to Dav- idson. During his six
year min- istry here, he was very active in community and college af- fairs. The Methodist Student Fel- lowship, sponsored
by the Dav- idson Methodist Church, was begun by Montfort, and it was during his pastorate that the Methodist Church
built and moved into a new building. Montfort is noted for his con- troversial ideas and for his ef- forts
to make the church rele- vant to modern society. VIENNA @ English or German-taught courses at the Univer- sity of
Vienna for C-plus juniors and sophomores. Previous German required only for spring semester. European Year: $2,360.° Spring Semester: $1,605.° *
Fees include tuition, intensive language instruction, orientation, room, most meals, two field trips, round trip ocean passage, more. For more
information, ask your professors ...or write the Institute of European Studies (check your library) 35 E. Wacker Dr., Chicago, Illinois
60601
