Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

A Flurry Of Confetti

A plethora of platforms stealthily posted on the walls in heads and halls across the campus distinguished this year’s political
sweepstakes—for its industry, at least. The approach was new, if unexciting, for Davidson. Further, deadpan Davidson politics got a shot
in the arm from darkhorse Ed Boston’s “New Tradition,” and his happy-days-are-here-again chapel address. This could be the start of
something grand, as the song goes.

But as the season wore on, and the candidates studiously paraphrased each other, the tedious sea of mimeography overcame the
public. The fluttering signals of progress became something more than trash but less than information. One conscientious voter accepted his
duty as he saw it, methodically and tirelessly burning every one of the platforms posted in Richardson dormitory in an
effort to preserve the eyesight and sanity of his fellows.

Third and fourth round candidates waxed imaginative, using brightly colored magic markings to draw in a sucker or two. But
the manifestoes remained a cut below the high school campaign poster, in interest if not in sophistication. The flicker of
progress was smothered under a blanket of suffocating typewritten verbiage. Fraternity brothers and friends of the candidates watched their favorite
sons go down in quiet gloom. Support for ideas ran silent, but not necessarily deep. A misinterpretation of the bloc-voting
restriction caused fraternity fireballs to shy away from soliciting around their respective hearths. The rule prohibits inter-fraternity bloc-vote swapping and
forbids coercion “for the sake of the brotherhood.” But taking the fraternity to the polls en masse is simply good
politics.

The issues this year were not great; but neither was the ostensible ambition. Politics at Davidson could mean something if
we wanted it to—if candidates believed in themselves enough to be aggressive. The lead in aggressive campaigning belongs to the
capable friends and supporters of office-seekers. Modesty is no qualification for a politician, but it shouldn’t be even a consideration
for the political well-wisher. Soap-box rhetoric on the Union steps, rallies at the Post Office after chapel, impromptu debate between
rival supporters wherever a crowd will gather; anything can go to focus attention on your candidate.

At larger schools, convincing campaigns are conducted successfully with a negligible monetary expense. A $25-a-plate barbecue isn’t the only way
to buttonhole voters. And a Monday morning assembly isn’t the only audience for the political hopeful. Anybody can play, but
only one can win; and the winner is usually the one who reaches the most voters.

Well, the first time is the hardest, and Davidson will laugh up its madras sleeve on the first round of
stump-standing oration. But grassroots campaigning, conducted by campus politicos and respected upperclassmen, can smoke out some issues and liven up
a bland Davidson spring. It requires some effort to read a platform, but it doesn’t even take much sense to
listen.

The ‘Representatives’ Act

Leaping into action at its first meeting, the newly elected Student Council voted to oppose the attempt by Mississippi state
officials to revoke the charter of Tougaloo College, a private, predominantly Negro school. The action on the part of the
Mississippi officials finds its roots in the state’s racial problem.

An intensive campaign in Tougaloo’s behalf has been waged in recent weeks by the United States National Student Association (NSA)
and the American Association of University Professors (AAUP). On the basis of the limited information available, we agree with the
council’s opinion on the Tougaloo charter action. Nevertheless, we strongly protest the decision of the members of council to participate
in this, a political matter, as a group rather than as individuals. Although academic matters are involved in the Tougaloo
case, nevertheless, the problem remains essentially political, a product of Mississippi’s racial struggle.

In answering a DAVIDSONIAN poll of candidates for the student body presidency last month, then-candidate Will Jackson wrote: I do
not believe that the Student Council should take official stands on specific political issues of the day. It seems that
an interesting parallel on this subject can be drawn toward the past actions of the NSA. Much criticism has been
aimed at NSA for formulating official stands on national or international political issues which are essentially outside the realm of
specific student affairs and problems. I think that much of this criticism is validly founded. In the same sense, then,
I feel that the Student Council's role on this campus is directly dedicated to the welfare of the student body
and its rightful representation in student affairs, and that political stands are neither logically within this scope nor consistent with
this aim.

Council member Tommy Heffner, responding to the same poll, stated: I do not think the Student Council should take political
stands. In the first place, that is not the role of a student government as it exists here. Furthermore, I
can't see how the council could adequately represent student opinion on most political issues where so many diverse opinions are
held. It would be difficult to draw the line and say just what sort of political issues the council would
take stands on and exactly how far it would go. Also, this seems to be something that would take up
time which the council could better devote to matters more pertinent to the students.

Surely the Student Council should reconsider its action in view of the precedent being established. We encourage student participation in
political affairs. But such activity should be carried out by the student either as an individual or through a politically
oriented organization. We had hoped that the newly elected councilmen would be more interested in implementing their platforms than in
seeking methods by which the student support behind council might be split.

Mrs. M.

In the wake of Mrs. Moore’s decision to resign as Supervisor of Dormitories, we find a position that will be
difficult to fill at all and impossible to fill as well. We are not losing merely a Supervisor of Dormitories;
leaving is a person who has served in the amazing capacity of confidant—administrator—mother-father—hostess—dean—liaison. Exhausting are the duties of such a
multi-lateral position. But with the position goes the pleasure of success, a success which has come primarily from Mrs. Moore's
contact with students. With keen interest she daily has demonstrated her discerning understanding of students and their problems. Partially through
the nature of her position, but even more because of her individual efforts, she has succeeded where many others have
failed—in spanning the hiatus with students.

Only Mrs. Moore knows the name of every student by the first of October; and only Mrs. Moore knows what
makes each Davidson man “tick” by the end of his freshman year. It is this interest and understanding that has
won for her the admiration of the student body to which she has devoted herself for the past seven years.
Sadness will confront us next year as we await—yet fail to hear—the sound of the familiar short steps accompanied by
the lightly tossed warning of “Mrs. Moore on the hall.”

Associate Editor ... Rick von Unwerth
Managing Editors ... Charles Ramberg, Jim Downey
Copy Editor ... John Todd
News Editor ... Mike Harrington
Feature Editor ... Rufus Adair
Sports Editor ... Ron Snow
Asst. Business Mng. ... Tom Loflin
Advertising Manager ... Ned Kelly
Circulation Manager ... Johnny Clark
Photographers ... Sam Smith, Tom Thel
Cartoonists ... Jack Lingle, Johnny Wright, Rufus Hallmark, John Compton, Irvine Welling, Malcolm Lane

Contributors this week: Allen Webb, Bill Norfleet, David Coffey, Bill Aitken, George Fain, Bill Foster, Harry Carr, Ben Teague, Jimmy
White, Tom Peaden, Dick Hicks, Britt Snider, Wayne Lane, Don Tyler, Forrest Roles, Bill Briggs, and Charles Edwards.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

AND IF YOU WOULD JUST READ OVER MY PLATFORM HERE...

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Workman Cites Need For Sexual Restraint

Dear Editor:

I wish to commend Duncan Newcomer for a lucid expression of a point of view in “An Urchin's Way” in
last week's DAVIDSONIAN. Such expressions as his are essential if there is to be a profitable dialog between the generations
(to a great extent, conflicts of morals are conflicts between the generations). There must be an effort at just as
lucid an expression from the other side.

Honesty, like Mother and Flag, must be admired and eulogized; but, as one of our vesper speakers two or three
years ago said about sincerity, honesty can be a half-virtue. Honesty is necessary, yes; but it is not sufficient. To
admit to having a passion or a drive is honest (and also healthy); to act as the passion or drive
directs is neither honest nor dishonest in itself.

For example, if I am tempted to steal, it is honest to acknowledge the temptation, but can I justify stealing
by saying that it is an honest expression of my desire? (I am defining stealing as taking possession of property
without due process.) There are processes by which I can legitimately gain possession. Sex, like possession, is not good or
bad in itself; circumstances provide the ethical quality. For a second example: I have a genuine desire to tell a
lie; is telling the lie, then, an honest act?

Another point, more pragmatic: in my counseling experience I have found the following case not unusual. A student comes to
me considerably disturbed, deeply remorseful, feeling heavy guilt. He has been in love, the love was mutual, and the love
was experienced as eternal. The love justified sex as an honest expression of the whole relationship of two persons, the
fusion of two spirits. What need was there for “the incantations of a priest, for the mumbo-jumbo of a medicine
man”? (That quotation is almost verbatim from more than one client.) Now it has turned out that the love was
not eternal. Now at least one (often it is only one) of the former lovers feels naked and alone, unsupported
in a loveless world; his (the ones who have come to me have been men) act of love is left
unsanctioned; neither the society of which he is a part nor the girl who was his lover now supports him.part
and on which he is to an appreciable degree dependent nor a great, enduring love undergirds him. While we are
thinking about the virtue of honesty, we should not neglect to recognize the virtue of restraint. Maybe they are both
half-virtues, and maybe together they make a pretty valuable whole.

W. G. Workman
Prof. of Psychology

* * *

Allen Jackson

Dear Editor:

Several important points should be noted in reference to last week's editorial concerning the Student Council-Honor Court room check for
missing library books:

First, the plan for the check was clearly announced weeks in advance by the DAVIDSONIAN, and a later issue of
the paper stated that the Student Council had set a definite date for the action. Thus, the check should have
been a surprise to no one, and objections, if any, could have been voiced prior to the actual search. Yet,
to our knowledge, no one expressed any official complaint or objection to either the Student Council or the Honor Court.

Secondly, the search was hardly conducted as a “blitzkrieg,” as you so vividly described. The check was quiet and orderly,
and permission to enter and search was requested and granted in every room where an occupant was present. In those
rooms in which there was no occupant, the members of the Student Council and Honor Court entered and, with the
door plainly open, checked all obviously visible books on shelves, desks, or beds.

Thirdly, at no time were the Court and Council members involved in “rummaging through the rooms of students,” as you
stated. Only those books exhibited in open places were examined, and places such as drawers, trunks, or boxes were not
disturbed at all.

Fourth, as you stated in your editorial, “we admit that in certain situations such as the library problem, a search
is the only answer.” We maintain that the Honor Court and Student Council do possess the authority to search rooms
on this campus when a particular situation merits such an investigation, and that this authority is expressly understood in the
roles and functions of these Student Government organizations.

It is our opinion that the library circumstances in question did indeed merit such a search, and that search was
carried out tactfully, and with as little inconvenience to the Student Body as was possible.

Hugh Allen
Will Jackson

BY STEPHEN GRAHAM

Governor George Wallace’s “victory” in the Wisconsin primary, insofar as it is representative of national sentiment on the Civil Rights
Bill, is insignificant. Wisconsin presidential primaries are anathema to professional politicians. The political reforms of Robert La Follette and his
Progressive Republicans may have cleaned out bosses and political machines, but they have also played havoc with effective party organization
in that state. Undoubtedly the unique cross primary (in which party membership obligations are not binding at the polls and
which California junked after a short trial) contributed to Wallace's obtaining twenty-five percent of the popular vote.

But Wisconsin’s stringent election laws go beyond the cross primary. Incorporated legal party machinery is forbidden, patronage is almost non-existent,
political advertising and radio and television broadcasts are taboo twenty-four hours before election time, and no candidate can hire cars
to take voters to the polls or pay poll workers. These conditions have helped to produce such national anomalies and
political surprises as Joe McCarthy and the beginning of the end for the Presidential aspirations of Hubert Humphrey in 1960.
The vestiges of McCarthyism also helped Alabama's excellent showing in the late Senator's old district.

To what then can Wallace's rather substantial vote be attributed? The answer may well lie in the fact that Wallace
did well indeed in traditionally Republican districts, where Wallace was associated with the conservative reaction to powerful government and its
activities. In this light Wallace can be viewed as a front man for another more prominent, but Republican, candidate—Barry Goldwater.
The vote for Wallace would thus seem to stem from the extreme conservative Republicanism in Wisconsin and not from popular
opposition to the Civil Rights Bill. (The influence of McCarthyism is obvious.) In retrospect it would hardly seem possible for
Senators to be greatly influenced by this upstart nonentity from Alabama in the erratic presidential primaries of Wisconsin. The battle
lines have been formed, and the fight for rights has already begun. There can be no turning back for the
truly committed. This last-ditch effort of the adherents to a lost cause has come a bit late, and having occurred
as it did, seems futile, foolish, and even a little farcical.

Honor Court Policies Defended By Arbuckle In Regard to Search

Dear Editor:

Insofar as Charles Dibble's first editorial in the DAVIDSONIAN issue of April 10, 1964, entitled “A Search for the Means...”,
he has misapplied the law of “search.” The College in furnishing a room for a student’s occupancy reserves the right,
either by expressed contract or implication, for access to that room for any of its authorized personnel or representatives. For
instance, the janitors have the right of entry to clean, Mrs. Moore to inspect, and maintenance to repair. Furthermore, the
President and the Dean of Students have recognized the rightful authority of the Student Council and the Honor Court to
apply this means of search to a legitimate end. Any suspected violation of College rules and regulations affords sufficient reason
for entry and search. Contrary to Dibble’s and Loflin’s opinion suspicion had arisen. This suspicion is not directed at any
particular persons but at the college community as a whole. It is a fact that even the DAVIDSONIAN accepts that
student conduct in the library has created an increasingly intolerable situation.

The dorm check was initiated not only to find violators and missing books, but also was to let the student
body know that the Honor Court and Student Council are interested in this problem and plan to do more than
pay lip service in correcting this problem. It is a student problem and it should be handled by students. It
is both Spratt’s and my opinion that this check was done not only in the best interests of the College
but in the best interests of the student body.

In his editorial Dibble used such words as “blitzkrieg,” “March 26 raid,” “indiscriminate searches,” etc.—all implying a misuse of power
and willful negligence and abuse of a student's rights. The dorm check (i.e. search) is a result of the Council
and Court asking permission to settle a serious student problem without interference from the administration. Both the library and the
Dean’s Office felt this would be the best approach. Several articles were written about the problem and an appeal to
a students’ sense of honor was made. It got little response and it became evident more active means must be
employed. A dorm check was decided upon and this decision was printed in the DAVIDSONIAN some three or four weeks
before the search.

A joint meeting of the Council and Court decided on the procedure to be used. It was understood that there
would be no “rummaging through the rooms of students” or into their private belongings. The search was directed toward bookshelves.
There was also to be no forcible entry. If a student did not want his room entered, Court and Council
members were to comply with his request.

The procedure suggested by Charles Dibble would be applicable only to a student's private possessions which have been secured by
lock. For instance, a student's trunk could not properly be broken open without his consent or without good grounds for
believing he was secreting therein something contrary to College regulations, such as stolen property. In making a search of this
nature all necessary safeguards should be followed and Dibble’s suggestion might well be applicable. It is not, however, applicable to
a room furnished a student by the College the use of which is subject to the pleasure of the College,
and to the rules and regulations of the College.

The Council and Court acted as agents of the College in an attempt to regain College property. I trust the
above will help clarify in some measure this editorial which attempts to treat a student’s room as his “castle,” whereas
the very nature of his tenure makes inapplicable the safeguards inherent in the “right of search” as applied to private
property. I trust also that the students will see the dorm check as an acceptance of responsibility by the Council
and Court to protect the students from continued misuse of the library.

As For Book Stealing...

In the second editorial of April 10, Dibble stated, “Part of the trouble the Student Council and Honor Court are
meeting in the library book hullabaloo is a direct result of the groups’ failure or refusal to recognize the problem
for what it is—Stealing.” I take objection to this statement in three ways:

First, Dibble does not realize the undue strain this broad statement would put on the Honor System. It is necessary
to realize that if this violation were an honor offense, it would make it an honor offense not to report.
There is the strain of reporting and not to mention the enforcing.

Second, the intent of the taker is not being taken into account. It is an oversimplification not to consider intent.
If intent is not considered, it would be permissible to dismiss someone from college every time a person fails to
sign a book out.

Thirdly, the Honor Court correctly applies the law when it refuses to consider a theft of a library book to
have been committed unless coupled with the taking there is something else that would constitute wrongful intent. The removal or
attempting to remove the College’s identifying marks makes out wrongful intent. It is not essential that the taker benefit from
the taking, but only that there is present something to evidence wrongful intent—such as the intent to deprive the College
permanently of the book. The significant thing is that the taking must be coupled with the additional element of intent.

Howard Arbuckle
Former Honor Court Ch.

by johnny hart

THEY DON’T IMPRESS ME.
