FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1964

CAT TALES BY JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

A LOST OPPORTUNITY

Tennis Coach Harry Fogleman lost two nationally-ranked prep school netters this weekend because he couldn't offer them scholarships. Both said that they preferred Davidson but couldn’t afford financially to turn down scholarship offers elsewhere. Both members of the United States Junior doubles team wanted to attend Davidson, but because of lack of scholarships they went to other schools. It seems ridiculous to me that Davidson has such an easy opportunity to field one of the best tennis teams in the nation and doesn't take advantage of this opportunity. If we were Podunk College and couldn’t afford financial aid to tennis players, this situation might be excusable. But I don’t think anybody will deny that Davidson College can afford one full tennis scholarship per year (or two $1000 scholarships).

Ten opponents on the Wildcat schedule give financial aid. Davidson manages to hold its own against some of these teams, but can’t even hope to beat such subsidized powers as George Washington and UNC. Coach Fogleman has managed somewhat phenomenal success with the tennis program since he has been at Davidson. With a single scholarship, there is no telling what he could do.

I guess that there are good reasons for not giving the tennis players aid. There is no doubt but that Davidson’s academic standards would fall drastically with tennis aid; and the school would be overrun by hulking professional tennis animals. Besides, there are probably Biblical references that would show that financial aid to spring sports is a sin. The money factor is important too. Six or seven thousand dollars would be a ridiculous and extravagant amount to sink into tennis, although it is perfectly reasonable to shell out $200,000 to remodel the very obviously overcrowded Student Union. I guess that it is best to drift along as slightly better than mediocre, and losing to the “powers”, rather than “professionalize” and bring in all sorts of undesirables at an overwhelming expense to the school. The administration is to be commended for following this wise course.

MORE ALL-STARS

The Wildcat basketball team recently named an opponent team, with All-Americans Jeff Mullins of Duke and Bill Bradley of Princeton being unanimous choices on the squad. Ohio State's All-American center, Gary Bradds, selected by the Associated Press as Player of the Year, placed third in balloting with nine votes and Duke’s Jay Buckley got eight votes. Tied for the fifth position were guards Steve Courtin of St. Joe and Bill Blair of VMI. With Bradds at center, Buckley and Bradley at the forward positions, and Mullins and Blair in the backcourt, this team could hold its own against any five around.

Although his batting average has slipped slightly, from .500 to .143, Wildcat first baseman Sonny Graves remains undaunted. Reports Graves, “Actually my real value is the steadying influence I provide for the team.”

Davidson’s baseball team hosts Belmont Abbey tomorrow afternoon in the start of a drive to score their first .500 season since 1958. The Wildcats varsity had an easy time with the Crusaders earlier this season when they defeated them 14-2, and they are hoping to up their record to 8-12 with seven games to go. Coach Tom Stevens’ diamonders won two out of four conference games last week as they defeated William and Mary twice and lost two close games to nationally-ranked and undefeated West Virginia.

The West Virginia encounters Saturday were enough to break a pitcher's heart. In the first game, ‘Cat starter Dick Snyder had so much style that his catcher couldn‘t hold it. West Virginia scored four quick runs on past balls and wild pitches and went on to win 7-3. In the second game, the ‘Cats almost repaid the Mountaineers for a basketball game this winter. The ‘Cats had two extra inning leads and each time blew them, one on a wild pitch and the last, and most heart-breaking, on a dropped two-out fly ball.

Sigs Lead In IMAC Title Races
BY PRESTON ST. CLAIR

The Phi Gams pulled into first place in the IMAC softball race this week by winning two more games to make their season record 8-0. However, both games were one-run wins, indicating that perhaps prayers are helpful even at Davidson. Phi Gam pitcher Dale ‘Puppy Dog’ Keller outlasted Pika pitcher Larry Outlaw Wednesday afternoon. That game went nine innings before the Phi Gams won, 10-9.

The “Game of the Week” was played Thursday. The Gams won, 1-0, as the KA’s came to bat in the bottom of the seventh. With one out, Jim Starrett on first base and Atkins Embry on second, Dick Bates hit a line drive to the outfield. Embry was called out at home by Phi Gam umpire Dan Barefoot for missing the plate. This call, which proved to be the deciding call in the lowest-scoring game of the year, was hotly contested by the KA’s. The Gams won, 1-0.

In other action this week, the Sigma Chi’s stopped a seventh-inning rally by the Sig Eps with a double play. Barney Lewis masterminded that play to give the Machi’s an 11-10 victory. The Sig Eps then beat the ATO’s Thursday by a score of 15-11. This win was the only upset of the week, but didn't take too many people by surprise. However, the ATO’s were noticeably reluctant to comment on the game. Other results for the week: ATO’s 35, Independents 12; KA's 6, Pi Kapps 4; Phi Delts 15, Sigma Chis 10; Betas 14, Independents 6.

The tennis tournament wended on its wearisome way, and still seems far from completion. The Phi Delt players, Buzzy Parker and Paul Stotts, made a clean sweep to come out on top in the winners’ bracket. In the losers’ bracket, the Betas, Pikas, Sigma Chi's, and Independents remain to fight it out.

Netmen Fall To Duke, Clobber Wake, Furman

Coach Harry Fogleman’s Wildcat netters, playing sluggishly all week long, cruised through two impotent opponents before tackling Duke in a makeup match yesterday, a contest in which they fell to their fifth defeat of the season, 6-3, but brought their overall record to 15-5, their best record within recent years.

Journeying to Winston-Salem Saturday to that haven of piety, Wake Forest, the tennis team was far removed from the sinful undertakings of Davidson's Spring Frolics. But the ‘Cats’ hearts must have been here as they had more trouble than expected in subduing a scrappy Wake team, 6-3. “No one was up for this match,” commented Coach Fogleman, “I imagine they must have been thinking about their dates.” The Deacons got off to a quick start as Mike Alcala took Bill Schutt in three sets, 6-2, 3-6, 6-1. But this was the only singles victory Wake could muster as Dick Hurd defeated Curt Dixon, 6-3, 3-6, 8-6. Woody Cleveland smashed Lindsley Pratt, 6-3, 6-2, Bill Council took Tom Williams, 6-1, 6-4, Jeff Frank beat Steve Parsons, 6-4, 6-4, and Dave Meschan defeated John Memory, 8-6, 6-3.

The Deacons were able to make the final score respectable in the doubles as Dixon and Pratt teamed up to take Schutt-Council in a match that Davidson had to forfeit because of lack of playing time. The ‘Cats’ depth paid off as Cleveland and Hurd combined to take Williams and John Alcala, 6-4, 6-3, but the Deacons then rallied as Parsons and Memory upset Frank-Meschan, 2-6, 6-4, 7-5.

The ‘Cats won 15-5 Wednesday by downing Furman, 8-1. Steve Watson, last year’s conference singles’ champion, handed Bill Schutt a 6-3, 6-2 defeat for the only victory Furman could manage over the afternoon. Hurd took Dewey Varn, 6-4, 6-1; Cleveland defeated Charlie Connelly, 6-4, 6-0; Council beat Denny Van Valkenburgh, 6-1, 6-1; Frank defeated Harry Schucker, 6-3, 6-2; and John Ariail downed George Linney in three sets, 3-6, 6-4, 7-5.

The doubles matches were all Davidson. Schutt-Council disposed of Watson-Varn, 6-2, 6-2; Ariail-Baumgardner met a little stiffer opposition before taking Connelly-Van Valkenburgh, 6-3, 6-8, 7-5; and Frank-Meschan polished off Schecher-Linney, 6-0, 6-2 to finish a Davidson sweep of the doubles.

The ‘Cats ran into a determined Duke team Thursday and came off on the short end of a 6-3 score. The match was a continuation of one started on April 13, but postponed after three singles games because of rain. Only Hurd and Council could pull out singles matches against the Blue Devils. Hurd downed Jim Cheek, 6-1, 9-7 while Council was defeating Doug Jones, 6-1, 6-4. Hurd later combined with Cleveland to down Ken McCullough and Jones, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 in the only doubles match the ‘Cats were able to salvage. Schutt fell to Jerry Mattson in the number one singles, 6-3, 6-2; Cleveland lost to McCullough, 6-3, 6-3; Frank was defeated by Nat Broker, 6-2, 7-5; and Meschan fell 1-6, 6-2, 6-4 to Tony Craver.

A RACKETMAN BILL COUNCIL shows off for fans with his fancy footwork in Wednesday’s Furman match. “Tricky” Bill’s clever contortions apparently paid off by upsetting Furman’s fuzzballers so much that they dropped an 8-1 decision to the streaking ‘Cats. (Photo by Thel)For the chance to play the Phi Delts for the championship, Chris Hawk and Bob O'Kelly, playing for the Pikas, are the youngest players remaining in the tournament, both being freshmen. However, they have shown a good deal of finesse and have a good chance to win in the losers’ bracket. Independents Robert Earle and Skip Finger are the favorites in this bracket, having beaten the SAE's, SPE’s, and Pikas so far, while losing to the Phi Delts.

SOFTBALL STANDINGS
Phi Gam
Kappa Sig
Phi Delt
KA
Sigma Chi
Beta
Pika
ATO
Independent
Pi Kapp
SAE
SPE
Sigma Nu

The Kappa Sigs are heavily favored in the volleyball tournament. “Hangman Howard” Arbuckle has returned to public life as a member of the team that so cowed its opponents as to convince the SAE’s that the safest defense was a forfeit. In the only game they have played so far, the Kappa Sigs literally blew the ATO’s off the court. All Pittsburgh Metropolitan Area volleyball player Bill Beerman is the Kappa Sigs’ hatchet man and is touted as the best volleyball player Davidson College has ever produced. He is called other things by the bruised ATO’s. Rounding out the favored team is the tallest player on campus, Fred Hetzel, along with Tommy Reams, Mac Morris, and Rick Lowery. Other undefeated teams in the volleyball tournament are the Independents, the Phi Delts, and the Pikas.

Davidson took out its frustrations from the West Virginia losses on hapless William and Mary Monday. The ‘Cats got excellent pitching from Earl Cole and Barry Teague, and hitting from Don Davidson, Rick Smyre, and Dick Snyder to down the Indians 5-1 and 7-2.

Spring Sports Day
Davidson will initiate its first annual Spring Sports Day tomorrow with activities focused on Spring Homecoming and the athletic events. At noon, the alumnus son luncheon on the College Union lawn will officially begin the Spring Homecoming. Box lunches for this may be purchased for $1.25. Entries are welcomed to the Turtle World 600 Inch Invitational to begin at 12:30. Track, baseball, and tennis events will be held in the afternoon. The Davidson track team will meet Wake Forest at 1:30 in the stadium for field events with the running events beginning at 2. On the baseball field at 2:30, our team will see action against Belmont Abbey. Beginning at 3, Davidson's tennis team will compete with Appalachian State, culminating the main events of the day.

’Cat Nine Scares W. Va, Takes Two From W&M
Earl Cole held the Indians to one run in the first game despite the fact that five errors were committed behind him. Dick Snyder broke the game wide open in the fifth inning with a three-run home run. His long blast so demoralized the Indians that they weren't in the game afterward. In the second game, Snyder waited only until the third inning when he again lost one with two men on. The ‘Cats turned the game into a runaway in the fifth when Snyder hit his third homer of the day. Don Davidson hit his second, and Rick Smyre tripled before anyone was out. Barry Teague coasted to his second win of the season. The Wildcats play six straight conference games after tomorrow's game before finishing against North Carolina at Gastonia, May 15. Next Tuesday, they entertain VMI for two games, and the following Saturday George Washington visits for another doubleheader.

“Our greatest weakness,” says Coach Stevens, “has been on defense. We have had generally good hitting and pitching, and our base running has improved greatly, but our defense continues to be unpredictable. We make some great plays, but we can't seem to get the easy ones. Our defense will have to improve if we're going to do much better.”

Surprising Thinclads Capture Relays Win
BY TUCK JONES
The Davidson track team managed only three firsts Saturday, but placed in all but one event in winning their fifth consecutive Davidson College Relays championship. The Wildcats amassed 44½ points in defeating Washington and Lee (37), Lenoir Rhyne (30), Frederick (21½), East Tennessee State (18), Appalachian (14), High Point (11), Cumberland (7½), Catawba (5), Wofford (3), Elon (3), Presbyterian (1), and Atlantic Christian (0).

Three meet records fell in the field events as running times were slowed by a soggy track. Bill Wade of Frederick eclipsed the shot put mark for his third time in three years, extending the record to 48' 8". Washington and Lee’s Robin Kell set a new triple jump record with a leap of 44' ½". In the pole vault, Dale Hart of East Tennessee State, Bill Mills of Davidson, and Mike Campbell of Lenoir Rhyne all jumped 13' ½" to break the old standard of 12' 6". Hart, Mills, and Campbell finished in that order on the number of misses. The jump by Mills also set a new Davidson College record.

The host team captured first place in the distance medley, in which Joel Morrisett, Denny Phillips, John Barrow, and Tommy Heffner ran one quarter, one half, three quarters, and one mile respectively in a combined time of 10:43. Morrisett and Phillips then combined with Alan Turner and Steve Gill to win the mile relay in a commendable 3:27.2. Jim Wallace threw the discus fifteen feet farther than his previous best effort in winning that event for Davidson with a distance of 141' 5".

Outstanding performer in the meet was perhaps Robin Kell of Washington and Lee who accounted for 14 of his team’s 37 points. In addition to his record-setting triple jump, Kell won the high jump and finished second in the broad jump. For Davidson, sophomore David Brown placed in three events, picking up second in the triple jump, fourth in the high jump, and fifth in the broad jump. Brown also ran in two relays. Denny Phillips and Joel Morrisett each ran on two winning relay teams, with Phillips also running on the two-mile team which finished second. Steve Gill ran the anchor leg to win the mile relay and also anchored the two-mile team. Sprint star Alan Turner anchored the 440 team which tied for third and ran the third leg in the mile relay.

The Wildcats, who stand 4-1 in dual meet competition, entertain Wake Forest here tomorrow in their final encounter before next weekend's Southern Conference meet in Williamsburg, Virginia.

SUMMER JOBS for STUDENTS
NEWS '64 directory lists 20,000 summer job openings in 50 states. MALE or FEMALE. Unprecedented research for students includes exact pay rates and job details. Names employers and their addresses for hiring in industry, summer camps, national parks, resorts, etc., etc., etc. Hurry! jobs filled early. Send two dollars. Satisfaction guaranteed. Send to: Summer Jobs Directory—P. O. Box 12593—Phoenix, Arizona.

THE FUN BEGINS AT 'HATTIE’S “just up the road....”

ON THE BALL is Dick Nickel, golf team co-captain, as he lines up a putt while practicing for yesterday’s match against N.C. State in Gastonia. (Photo by Thel)

Wolfpack Linksmen Whip Wildcats 12-9
Davidson’s golf team met an N.C. State combination of skillful putting, tremendous driving, and fantastic iron play with remarkable fortitude yesterday, losing to the Wolfpack 9 to 12. The match was very close and undecided right down to the wire. Everything hinged on the last two golfers out on the course. Playing on an obviously “non-Wheatie” team, Albert James unfortunately went down to ignominious defeat. That was all, as the team, like Albert, was obviously not “up to par.”

The team seems to be improving though. Having lost more matches than they have won, they were at least in this one right up to the final gun. Co-captain Bob Bost feels that the team is “not bad” and that “they are improving with every match.” The future seems to be promising too with a fine group of freshmen moving onto the varsity squad next year. In fact, in a recent match the varsity barely eked out a win over the freshmen by the score of 13 to 11.

The ‘Cats' George Brewer shared medalist honors with State's Joe Godwin as both fired 74’s. In the other matches, Albert James lost 3-0, Dick Nickel lost 3-0, Macky McClelland won 2½-½, George Brewer won 2½-½, Champ Covington lost 2½-½, and Doug McKeever tied 1½-1½. Coach Scott was in Roanoke during the meet, but plans to return this week to try to turn the ‘Cats back to winning ways. The “sandtrappers” don't have much time left, with only the Southern Conference Tournament, May 11-13, remaining on the schedule.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Ticket Office
The Hub Now
Bus Station and Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M., Charlotte, N. C.

GAN SHIRTMAKERS
Warmer weather takes to this oxford-weave cotton lightweight with ease. Open textured fabric lets in cooling breezes for relaxed comfort. Short sleeves keep your arms free and clear... authentically flared button-down collar keeps your look trim and fastidious. Bush Wilson, Ltd.