oh ye Hautdsontan The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

VOL. L DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1964 NUMBER TWENTY-SIX

MOUNTIES SQUEEZE PAST WILDCAT ATTACK (See Page Three)

STEPHENSON OLIN LOFLIN JONES

Two American Negroes! Dr. Samuel Spencer '40, president of Mary Baldwin College and former Dean of Students at Davidson, spoke
in chapel Monday for the spring tapping ceremonies of Omicron Delta Kappa. Nine students and one faculty member were elected
to membership in this national leadership fraternity. Those tapped at the ceremony were Dr. Earl MacCormac; seniors Dave Olin, Tom
Loflin, Skip Jones, Wayne Smithers, and Grier Stephenson; and juniors John Barrow, David Walker, Rick von Unwerth, and Ronnie Reese.

In his address Spencer emphasized the importance of intelligent campus criticism. Relating his views on criticism to those on leadership,
he stated, “The really effective campus leader must also be campus critic.” He continued by delineating some of the problems
encountered by critics and offering them a knowing and understanding sympathy: “The campus critic knows that while his criticism may
influence social change, he will not be called upon to direct or control it.”

Spencer also stressed the importance of scholarship in ODK. He said that the basic initial requirement for membership is “a
recognition by ODK... that intellectual pursuits are, after all, the purpose for which a student should be in college.” Joe
Howell, president of ODK, conducted the tapping ceremonies. He outlined the criteria for election to ODK and stated that many
deserving students were ineligible because of ODK's scholastic requirements. A student must be in the upper 35 percent of his
class.

MacCormac, assistant professor of Bible and philosophy, earned his BA, MA, BD, and PhD from Yale.

SMITHERS MACCORMAC

Olin, from Columbus, Ohio, is past president of Sigma Chi and served on the IFC's Rush Week committee. Olin also
played soccer and was editor of Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-med publication.

Loflin ranks third in the graduating class. Feature editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, he is from Hendersonville.

Plan To Enroll This Fall

CONSTITUTIONALIST ADVOCATES TIME

Editor Kilpatrick Holds ‘Right To Discriminate’

James Kilpatrick, editor of the Richmond News-Leader and “articulate conservative,” spoke Monday morning. Kilpatrick spoke of the 300 years of
second-class citizenship for the American Negro as “but a tick in the clock of eternity.” Despite the perhaps unfortunate choice
of words, this phrase set the tone of the coffee hour that followed. (See editorial on page two.)

Resting on the Constitution and on the body of English Common Law, Kilpatrick stated, “There is no such thing as
a social necessity under law — only an economic necessity. Until it can be shown that discrimination interferes with commerce
among the states, Congress should have to seek a new basis for civil rights legislation.”

With such a distinction made between economic and social necessity, the campus visitor felt that public monopolies (i.e., utilities and
retailers of basic needs in isolated areas) had no basis for discrimination. But on the other hand, private entrepreneurs have
the right to discriminate. “The fifteenth amendment gave them (Negro race) the vote, but it does not give them the
right to a hot dog or typewriter I might be selling.”

“A constitutional amendment,” said Kilpatrick, “is the only way to legislate civil rights action.” He went on to say that
he felt this way before the Supreme Court reversed its stand on school integration in Brown v. Topeka Board of
Education. “There should be a distinction between a court decision and an amendment; such has not always been apparent.”

Questioned further about the sociological evidence presented in the Brown case to the effect that discrimination is damaging to mental
health, Kilpatrick said that he would accept and recognize that this is the beginning of a body of law. In
the afternoon, he would go on to say that, for various historical reasons, the Negro race was inferior to the
Caucasian race.

What about the Negro’s right to demonstrate? Said Kilpatrick, “I publicly supported peaceful demonstrations in Danville, Va. But physical interference
with commerce is not the same thing: this is license, not liberty. As a businessman, I have a right to
discriminate: I can dispose of my property as I see fit, subject to established limitations. I cannot use my property
to be harmful to my neighbors.”

On the civil rights bill before the Senate, Kilpatrick had definite opinions. He objected strongly to the literacy test of
Title I. While pointing out that the 15th amendment prohibits a racial qualification for voting, the editor maintained the federal
government has no right to either prescribe or ban literacy tests for voting if administered impartially.

Kilpatrick favors the proposed Monroney amendment to the Senate bill. This amendment would make discrimination illegal for establishments on interstates,
primary highways, and among chain operations with outlets in different states. “This is merely the old innkeeper’s law in modern
form,” said Kilpatrick, “and I do not object to it.”

The visiting editor dismissed completely two arguments presented in the coffee hour. Charlie Ramberg asked, “Since government institutions protect all
establishments, how can any establishment legally discriminate against a citizen?” Kilpatrick dismissed this as a dangerous line of reasoning originally
introduced by Justice Douglas. He replied, “Just because the police and fire departments protect my home, does that mean my
home is open to anyone?”

Another argued that discrimination is a conspiracy in restraint of trade. Not so, said Kilpatrick, and he repeated his views
on private property.

Early in the discussion, the Richmond editor noted that “there could well be a damaging backlash from demonstrations. The Senate
might rebel if it gets worse.” At dinner Monday night he noted the failure of the “stall in” demonstration in
New York City. “Too bad we didn't have a blood bath up there,” mourned a student. Said Kilpatrick, facetiously, “Yes,
it might have gotten us ten more votes in the Senate.”

Student Council Sets May 11 As Date For NSA Balloting

The referendum on membership in the National Student Association promised last fall by Student Body President John Spratt will be
held Monday, May 11, it was decided by the Student Council in its meeting last Monday night. Voting on the
referendum will follow the chapel period Monday. Student Council President Will Jackson appointed Fred Sackett and Tom Frist to work
with him in completing remaining details concerning the prescribed voting.

Second Vice President Bill Council reported that interviews with Dr. Tom Scott, Director of Athletics and chairman of the Physical
Plant Committee for the Davidson College re-evaluation program, and Robert Curtie, business manager, favored conducting a student poll to determine
what additional recreational facilities the student body would consider necessary to fulfill present needs at Davidson. Council went on to
say that the poll would definitely be held in the near future.

For the purpose of issuing the annual charters to each campus organization, the council has distributed applications for charters determining
the status of each organization in terms of active membership, a body of officers, and a purpose beneficial to Davidson
College.

Three Boys Admitted, But Only Two Accept

Two American Negro students have been accepted and have indicated that they definitely plan to enroll as members of the
freshman class next fall, the Admissions Office announced today. They are Leslie Brown of Trenton, N. C. and Wayne Crumwell
of Chesapeake, Va. A third Negro who was accepted at Davidson chose another school. They were selected from among 11
Negro applicants who filed for admission to the College, one of whom has been placed on the admissions waiting list.

Brown is valedictorian of his class of 82 students at Jones High School in Trenton. He is president of the
Student Council, president of the National Honor Society, co-editor of the yearbook, and a member of the Debate Team.

Crumwell is in the top five percent of his class of 203 at Crestwood Senior High School in Chesapeake. Active
in dramatics for the last two years, he also serves as president of the Debate Club. He is president of
the National Honor Society and was runner-up for president of the student body.

In February of 1961, the College Trustees took the first step toward integration by approvingThe admission of a Congolese boy
to the student body. The most important announcement concerning the integration of the College came from the spring meeting of
the trustees in 1962. At this time the trustees approved by a large majority a policy opening the college to
students regardless of race or nationality. In September of 1962, the first Negro student—a Congolese—enrolled as a freshman at Davidson.
He was joined last fall by another student from the Congo. Commenting on the admission of the students, President D.
G. Martin said, “These students have indicated to us their interest in attending Davidson. We have accepted them on the
basis of their splendid high school achievements, and they are expected to enroll at Davidson next fall. Their admission to
Davidson is in keeping with the decision of the Davidson trustees that Davidson's doors are open to all qualified students
without regard to race,” he continued. Said Associate Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White, “We think we're going to have
a fine freshman class next year, and these two boys will be good additions to the class.” Former Student Body
President John Spratt added, “This will be a terrific challenge for Davidson boys who profess beliefs in integration to act
out their convictions. I hope there will not be a de facto segregation within the student body against these young
men and that they will become full members of the student body in every sense of the word; intellectually, politically,
and socially.”

ATTENTION! In recent weeks there have been complaints concerning the dress of students at Vespers services. Attendance cards will be
given only to those students who are properly dressed. Administration and faculty consultation with elected student leaders has indicated that
reasonable standards of dress include coat, tie, shirt, long pants, and shoes.

Student-Faculty Coordinating Committee

Jones, from Greensboro, is president of the Davidson Debaters. Jones is also copy editor of Quips and Cranks and a
member of Beta Theta Pi. Smithers, business manager of Quips and Cranks, is a past president of Pi Kappa Alpha
and is from Kannapolis. Stephenson, from Covington, Ga., ranks first in the senior class. A former president of the International
Relations Committee, Stephenson was recently awarded a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship. Barrow, from Winston-Salem, is freshman advisor for the coming year
and a member of the Student Council. He is on the track team and is president of Phi Delta Theta.
Walker, from Nashville, Tenn., ranks first in the rising senior class. A member of the Student Council and AED, Walker
also wrestles, plays football, and is vice-president of Beta Theta Pi. Von Unwerth is president of the Interfraternity Council. He
serves on the editorial staff of Scripts ‘n Pranks and is a feature writer and associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN.
Von Unwerth, a member of Alpha Tau Omega, is from Augusta, Ga. Reese ranks third in the junior class and
is a member of the Honor Court. From Orlando, Fla., Reese is a member of Alpha Tau Omega and the
cross country team.

SLATER’S NEW HOME

Professor BARROW WALKER FAK von UNWERTH REESE (Staff Photo by Thel)

Kitchen in Chambers Basement To Open Sunday Evening

Slater, Snack Bar Move Into Chambers Basement

Slater Food Service will begin on Sunday evening to serve in the basement of Chambers Building, according to Manager H.
R. Bryson, Jr. Transfer of the necessary equipment from the basement of the College Union to its temporary summer location
in Chambers begins Sunday morning and should be completed sometime during the week. The snack bar will maintain the same
hours and will serve the same fare. The quantity of items such as ice cream, sandwiches, and hamburgers may be
limited because of the smaller capacity of the freezers that will be used. Carbonated drinks will be provided by dispensers.
Director of the Physical Plant Meetze told THE DAVIDSONIAN Wednesday, “It has taken a lot of time and effort to
renovate Chambers basement. The health inspector has already inspected the area and Grover was pleased with what he found.” Nothing
has been decided so far concerning the late-night study hall that is normally held in Chambers Building.

Costs Are Set For College Union Renovation

BY BUCK LAWRIMORE

A quarter of a million dollars will go toward expansion and operation of the Davidson College Student Union during 1964-65,
including Phase 2 of Union renovation. Speaking for the administration, Business Manager Robert A. Currie said that he anticipates some
$50,000 will be approved for operation of the Union, over $5,000 of which will be administered by the Union Board
of college students. Currie anticipates that $200,000 will be needed for Phase 2 of the renovation project now underway. Phase
1, now virtually completed, included the addition of the new wing of the Union and furnishing it. Phase 2 will
involve remodeling extensively the original downstairs area of the building, and air-conditioning the entire building. Last year the budget was
approximately $48,000 plus some $124,000 for Phase 1. Currie said that he expects only $2,000 of the requested $5,000 increase
will be approved for the regular budget. The $76,000 increase for Phase 2 will be handled separately. “With the tremendous
upsurge of student requests for our cooperation and with more money and assistance, we hope to build a successful and
a happy Union program next year,” said C. Shaw Smith, director of the Union. “We don't want students all to
feel that every time they want to have a good time they have to leave campus.” The majority of this
“success and happiness” depends on the Program Expense Budget supervised by the Union Board, which has asked for $7,000 for
their part of the overall budget, an increase of $2,000 over the present year. “I'm afraid that they won't get
nearly as much an increase as they have asked,” Currie said. “For one thing, the present $5,000 represents a substantial
increase over previous years. For another thing, it has been stated that the main use of this additional money would
be for increased social activities, and we haven't seen much positive indication that the student body as a whole really
wants a sizeable expansion in dances, parties, and that sort of thing at the Union.” Smith also asked for $3,000
more mainly for equipment, but Currie said that because of a lack of funds the amount approved will be significantly
less than that, although when the whole budget has been taken care of there may be a chance of leftover
funds going toward that equipment. At any rate, the $200,000 for expansion will itself effect many changes in the Union
itself. In addition to air-conditioning the whole Union Building, the dining area will be radically changed. The serving counter for
the cafeteria and the snack bar will be switched so that it will be possible to close off the dining
room—what Smith insists will become a “dining hall”—for cleaning and perhaps late suppers for special groups. The new arrangement will
permit the snack bar to be open at the same time as the cafeteria during the second semester or when
visitors are on campus for special occasions. The renovation will also include an extra five dining rooms, all adequately lighted
with a decor suitable to luncheon meetings and the like. One of the rooms will be a Presidential Room for
very special occasions, Smith said, but available for rental by students. The other rooms will be so constructed that any
number of them may be joined together for large occasions, so that over 100 people may be dining there at
the same time, either in separate rooms or in combinations of rooms. The dining hall itself will be completely redecorated.
Smith also intends that a full-time man be employed next year to supervise the operation of the whole new wing
of the Union, who will be especially needed since textbooks will also be sold next year there, as well as,
Smith hopes, some laboratory equipment and teaching aids.

No Reading Period To Precede Exams

There will be no reading day prior to the 1964 spring semester exams as was erroneously stated in THE DAVIDSONIAN
article concerning the decision to begin this practice. Reading days have been scheduled for both semesters of the 1964-65 school
year. Exams for this year's second semester will begin Wednesday, May 20, and will continue through Thursday, May 28. To
be instituted next year with the reading period is a system whereby both Monday and Tuesday classes will be held
on the same day once each semester on the day before the one-day reading period. Those days will be Monday,
Jan. 18, and Monday, May 24, 1965.
