FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1964

Don’t Make It Home-Going

THE DAVIDSONIAN

by Hill

DEAR EDITOR:

Recently I was shocked by a rumor which seemed to be circulating around the campus. The gist of the rumor was that a student had been charged with having a bottle of liquor in his car while still on campus. The bottle, according to the rumor, had been left in the car by accident by another student. Both students were convicted and suspended. Even if the rumor were never confirmed, the fact remains that under the present ruling such a thing could happen. But what upsets me even more is the fact that, had the student given a ride to another person other than an Honor Court member, his situation would have been completely different today. We have a double standard here that makes “luck” a prime factor in our system of self-government. We, the members of the student body, have passed the responsibility of supporting our own constitution on to others. The use of the phrases “honor-bound” in relation to the members of the Honor Court and Student Council, and “duty-bound” in relation to the members of the student body show visibly the duplicity of our position concerning this matter. We cannot delegate just enforcement of our own rules of self-government. Therefore, I now call upon the Student Council not only to expedite the proceedings of the newly appointed committee considering the wording of the liquor ban, but also to appoint a committee to prepare and schedule a referendum, the outcome of which will democratically decide the student body’s desire to keep or amend Article VIII, Section 2, of the Student Body Constitution. If any member of the Board of Trustees becomes upset because this seems to be a move to remove the liquor ban, I need only to refer him to the Davidson College (Faculty) Regulations, the Student Conduct Section, Point Four, which states the same rule in an even more encompassing way. The only units of enforcement which the college stands to lose are the Student Council and the Honor Court, a combined membership of 27. On the other hand, if the majority rules to keep Article VIII, Section 2, and majority rule is accepted, and, above all, honor returns to our student body, the college stands to gain up to 973 new units of enforcement. It’s time to amend or reinstate our constitution; and, by that act, to pull ourselves out of our apathy and actual dishonesty. Whatever the outcome of such a referendum, we would be stating our desire, on both the student body and personal levels, to foster integrity in daily living.

Jesse Sims
Davidson College

Burns

DEAR EDITOR:

I am genuinely surprised to find in your issue of October 2, an article, authored by a professor of economics, so sweeping in its generalizations and unspecific in nature as to be hardly worthy of print in your paper. He employs the term “foggiest” which indeed very aptly describes the entire composition. While journalistic freedom in a college publication may have its place when tempered by a degree of restraint, this alumnus cannot refrain from expressing sincere disappointment that Dr. Patterson would choose THE DAVIDSONIAN as his forum to air such purely partisan political vagary under the guise of supposedly sound economics. Without hampering the free flow of logical ideas, more responsible reserve than is here evidenced by the professor would certainly seem to be in order, particularly when one considers that some degree of proficiency in his field is probably imputed by the vast majority of your regular readers.

David B. Burns, Jr., '54
Knoxville, Tenn.

EDITOR'S NOTE: The article in question appeared on this page two weeks ago. Content of articles on this page—designed as a forum of opinion—are essentially editorial in nature. THE DAVIDSONIAN does not and cannot expect editorial features to be objective; rather we hope material of this sort will serve to raise questions. Apparently Professor Patterson's article is successful.

Ball

DEAR EDITOR:

It is interesting that Mr. Ramberg chose to use the fact that some racists are supporting the candidacy of Barry Goldwater as a point to argue that the Senator's possible victory would be a “Threat to Freedom.” Perhaps it is as much of a threat to freedom as was the candidacy of each Democratic nominee throughout this century, since each one had the all-out, die-hard support of the Ku Klux Klan. Or perhaps the author of last week’s column would like to suggest that those street rioters are going to be voting for Goldwater instead of Johnson. Goldwater “spent the summer talking about violence in the street” because, from the time of his nomination, violence in the streets proved to be the summer's most flagrant and dramatic problem. He also reaffirmed his commitment to protecting all the rights of all the citizens, which necessarily involves, as the Constitution states, maintaining domestic tranquility. Furthermore, there have been no recurrent, massive outbreaks of violence in the South in reaction to the Civil Rights Act. Instead, leaders on both sides have remarked how relatively smooth the South's adjustment has been. There are two additional aspects of the column which are difficult to understand. The first is the manner in which Mr. Ramberg begins: by presenting two Civil Rights-supporting statements (one by the Senator himself and one from the Republican Platform) to which Goldwater is bound. Then only a few sentences later he says that “In this area (“human rights”) the record seems clear, if only because it is based on his deeds and not on his words.” What, then, was the purpose of the quotations? It seems that both his words and his deeds which the author goes on to cite only corroborate his belief in equal rights. Mr. Ramberg then takes these deeds of Senator Goldwater and tosses them down the drain, erases them from his mind, because Goldwater voted against the Civil Rights Bill. His negative vote means that he was faking all along, that his declared belief in freedom has been just “a hollow sham,” says Mr. Ramberg. In “My case of the Republican Party, 1964" in this week's Saturday Review, Senator Goldwater writes: “The question, under our system of government, is not simply what decision is right but (italics Goldwater's) who has the right to decide. Only when the latter question is answered should the former be considered.” This is because of our divided government of checks and balances and our constitution; if we had neither we could give complete control of the land to one man and let him take us wherever his whims might lead. Perhaps Mr. Ramberg could more easily debate this point in relation to the Civil Rights bill; he will certainly have to do more than he has done in order to make his readers deny and forget the work which Barry Goldwater has done for civil rights. One last thing: the columnist predicted Goldwater's reply to Negro pleas: “My hands are tied.” Goldwater has reiterated again and again that if elected he will uphold justice for all, and discrimination against none. No President agrees with all the laws of the land, but it is the responsibility of each President to see that every one of them is enforced with equal dispassion, regardless of which ones he may have voted for or against. This Barry Goldwater has promised us.

Gordon V. Ball, Jr.
Davidson College

Beacham

DEAR EDITOR:

I read with interest this week the YMCA booklet which I found in my room. Of particular interest to me was the Great Issues program, which appears to be under the guiding hand of one Fred Sackett of recent White House dinner fame. Well, I read the Great Issues section through several times, to make sure I didn’t miss anything, and somehow still didn’t find the answer to one seemingly obvious question; namely, what is this semester’s Great Issues? I had somehow been led to believe that it would have something to do with the great dialogue confronting our nation between the philosophies of the leaders of our political parties, Johnson and Goldwater. But looking down the list of scheduled speakers, I fail to see why all of them, with one exception, would not be happy to clasp hands and skip gaily into LBJ's “Great Society” — or Brave New World. Robert Triffin of Yale did not seem particularly relevant to me (in fact, the whole program seems to suffer from a monumental lack of coherence. If there's an overall plan behind it all, it defies these mere mortal eyes to see it), but I certainly gathered that he was neither a conservative nor a Goldwater supporter. Two speakers from our own little college are scheduled — Drs. Patterson and Secor. I may be wrong, but I do not consider either of these to be “Thunderers on the Right.” Admittedly, there are not many conservatives on the faculty, but I wonder if Mr. Sackett bothered to ask — say, Dr. Chalmers Davidson or Dr. J. G. Martin if they would like to say a few words before sentence was passed? Dr. Shulman is from Harvard. Enough said. And Harry Golden, despite a certain similarity in name, has shown a rather marked lack of fellowship for Senator Goldwater. So much for the so-called non-political speakers. Turning now to the avowedly political spokesmen, we find Democratic Senator Jennings Randolph, sponsor of Johnson's anti-poverty bill; Mr. Henry Wilson, Johnson's Congressional Liaison Officer; Col. Francis Miller of the State Department; and last and if not least, certainly lonely, our own Representative Jonas. I have severe doubts whether any of the first three will have too many kind words for the Republican party or its candidates. So, adding up, we find eight speakers for Johnson's “take from the haves and give to the have nots” and one speaker for Goldwater's “set the tides running again in the cause of freedom.” Now I'll match my apathy against anybody's, but this did sort of arouse my curiosity. Maybe some other students and faculty would be interested in hearing how this fits in with the supposedly Christian concept of fair play.

Lowrie M. Beacham, I
Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Wednesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 218, Davidson, N. C.

Last year Davidson was in a year of self-study and among the various committees formed, one comes up with these interesting charts frequently compared:

FRESHMAN COUNCIL REPORTS

Library Found Inadequate For Research

By TOM FRIST
President, 1963-64 Freshman Council

Every few years the question arises, “How adequate is the Grey Memorial Library to a school of such calibre and needs as Davidson College?” Various letters then appear in THE DAVIDSONIAN both condemning and defending the present situation that exists in the library. The question arises, why does Davidson rate so low in all these areas when it has the extra given to the library?Last year for books. It was the faculty’s responsibility to make out a list of the books that their department needed and the library would see what it could do. Some of the faculty were lax in this due to the lack of time, but those that did find the time found that for the most part they obtained the books they needed and asked for. Some thought that it should be the job of the library staff to do the selecting and ordering. We have a good library staff now which is working to capacity already. The present staff can handle, order, and catalogue around 6,500 books a year. One faculty member suggested that there be added to the present professional staff one or two more members to handle the selecting of books, for many of the faculty cannot find time to do so.

PAGE THREE

As is the microfilm room. Many professors stated that research materials are very scarce. There is a great lack of depth in many research subjects. This is the main gripe of both faculty and students. There is also much available space not yet used; in some parts, the lighting is bad, and the library is understaffed for a big library. These are the major disapprovals of the library. Our budget for 1964-65 will be $95 per student (not counting a very large special request which we have hopes of getting). Of course, the other budgets may go up, too. Expenditure per student for library books based on statistics from the first ten colleges “Changes are coming in the Colleges” by Paul H. Davis, The Journal of Higher Education, March 1962. Amherst Carlton DAVIDSON Grinnell Haverford Oberlin Pomona Reed Sewanee Swarthmore Wesleyan (Conn.) was: a library self-study committee under the chairmanship of Dr. R. C. Cole. With his permission, some of this group's findings are published here. Also interested in this problem, last year's freshman council sought interviews with heads of many of the departments and their faculty members in order to get a cross-section of views on the library. Their summary is also present here.

LIBRARY EXPENDITURES

The Grey Memorial Library has at present 100,000 volumes with storage space for 175,000 volumes. In the periodical section, there are a little over 500 different publications. The library is staffed by nine persons, five professional and four non-professional, and is allowed a budget of approximately $95,000 a year (or an allotment of $95.00 per student). This sum does not include sums of varying proportions such as the very sizable $40,000 approved last year by President Martin. In the past five years, the amount of money given to the purchase of bound books has increased from $20,025 to $29,645 (an increase of $9,518). In the same time, the number of volumes has increased at a rate of approximately $5,245 in 1963-64 (or an increase of $1,842). Comparing these figures with those of libraries of 28 colleges with which Davidson is frequently compared:

1959-60 1960-61 1961-62 1962-63
154 162 162 180
58 66 76 82
65 70 75 81
74 70 99 96
244 266 229 125
103 115 137 119
107 97 109 88
81 85 85 181
71 76 187 197
118 170 218 202

Highest endowment of any liberal arts college in the South? Is the library adequate to the needs of the students and faculty of Davidson?

“IS LIBRARY ADEQUATE?”

Of those departments asked this question, 50% of them answered that the library was adequate to their needs, 25% said that it wasn't, and the remaining 25% were quoted as thinking it fairly able to fulfill their needs. It is interesting to note that among those who thought the library to be sufficient were such departments as Spanish, Drama, Fine Arts, and Math—not traditionally research subjects. A certain amount of money is given to each department every year for the purchase of books. The amounts vary from department to department according to three factors: 1.) Number of students per department; 2.) Average costs of books per department; 3.) Circulation per department. Responding to the question, “Is the amount of money allotted to your department for the selection of books sufficient?” only one department answered yes. The rest replied that they found the money directed to their departments not nearly sufficient. Around 75% of departments interviewed stated that they had spent over the amount given them. We spoke priorly of $40,000.

Richardson Scholar Raps Superficiality In Education
By MICHAEL LIGHT
1964 Richardson Scholar, Great Britain

The meaning and values of education are frequently misconstrued. The object of the educator must be to inspire in his students the desire to learn. Many a teacher criticizes his pupils for their purely competitive and mercenary approach to study. Yet so often this is the fault of the system, sometimes even the readers, rather than the students. Until one will study when he is not compelled to do so, he has learned little. There are enough of such people in college. One reason is that compulsory class attendance tends to build up an immediate inner rebellion against work. The realization that missing one class might mean missing some information crucial to forthcoming reviews is quite appalling and can hardly inspire a genuine interest in the subject. Again, regular tests and reviews tend to destroy one’s interest in one’s work, simply because, owing to their regularity, one’s study must be directed almost exclusively toward them. Similarly, during the first two years of college, the wide range of subjects studied, and the lack of depth that persists in most courses does make for a somewhat dilettante education. If indeed a part of one's college education should be reserved for a wide range of courses, then they should not be conducted under such a competitive system. Far better that one year should be spent in a good form of education. Studying courses of one’s own choice, away from one's “majoring” interests, in a greater degree of depth, and without the unnecessary competition. During this time one would achieve much of an interest and a desire to learn, as well as appreciating the means and methods of advanced study. These two invaluable lessons would in the ensuing two years be applied to one’s major courses. If it was felt that the first years of college would thus be wasted, such people should not attend college. Tolstoy wrote that “Principles of education must be based on ideals which are much higher morally than our present life. Only then may we hope that youth will be worthy of its generation.” It seems in this country that the preoccupation of the people with higher education has tended to obscure the great values and possibilities of advanced study.

EDITOR’S NOTE: THE DAVIDSONIAN has been running articles by this year’s Richardson Scholars. We feel that their contributions to the campus newspapers give them a chance to communicate their thoughts and ideas to far more of the student body than they could otherwise reach. The Richardson Scholars are invited, one at a time, to write on a subject of their own choosing for THE DAVIDSONIAN. By the close of their visit at the end of next semester, we hope to have had several articles by each of our 1964-65 Richardson Scholars.

CURRENT NEEDS

The Grey Memorial Library needs things—more money sums them all up. Its periodical section is extremely weak, and duplicate copies of many books cannot be found. The research room is entirely lacking, as is the microfilm room. Many professors stated that research materials are very scarce. There is a great lack of depth in many research subjects. This is the main gripe of both faculty and students. There is also much available space not yet used; in some parts, the lighting is bad, and the library is understaffed for a big library. These are the major disapprovals of the library. Perhaps if the college would seek capital funds for an endowment of a sizable sum of a million or two dollars for books alone, the needs of the library could be met. There is also the opinion that the library is a good one, far better than usually described. There is much culling of the books and many that seem more or less worthless to the needs of the student are thrown away. Books are selected very carefully. Dr. Davidson, head of the library, says, “If you rate Davidson by a quantity check, it will come out lacking, but if you rate it with a quality check, it will come out in flying colors.” For those who have need of research books, Davidson is a member of the inter-library lending organization. All one has to do is tell the librarian of his needs and in a few weeks the books will be in his hands. If Davidson College continues to predominantly emphasize note-taking classes with not much individual research, the library is adequate to its needs. But as a research library in itself, it is entirely lacking. The Grey Memorial Library has been making many strides in the past few years. There have been books added, a rare book room started, and other new and helpful improvements. But there is very much to be done yet to bring the library up to the par that the tradition of Davidson demands.

LIBRARIES IN STRONG LIBERAL ARTS COLLEGES (28)

Student body: arithmetic mean 1126.6; smallest, 630; largest, 2301
Endowment: arithmetic mean $17,036,441; smallest $4,000,000; largest $44,500,000
Number of volumes: arithmetic mean 254,191; median 220,419; smallest 117,401; largest 575,189
Number of periodicals: arithmetic mean 1057.4
Operating expenditure per student for library: arithmetic mean $116.68
Ratio of library expenditure to college budget: arithmetic mean 5.0%

Colleges included: Amherst, Bowdoin, Bryn Mawr, Colby, Connecticut, Hamilton, Mount Holyoke, Swarthmore, Trinity, Vassar, Wellesley, Wesleyan, Beloit, Oberlin, Carleton, Wabash in the Middle West; Williams in the East; Antioch, Grinnell, Kenyon, Berea, Sewanee, Washington and Lee in the South; Colorado, Mills, Occidental, Pomona, Reed in the West.

CORRESPONDING FIGURES AT DAVIDSON

Student body: 1000
Endowment: $11,500,000. N.B. The sizable grant each year from the Duke Foundation is worth several additional millions in endowment.
Number of volumes: 100,000
Number of periodicals: 500
Operating expenditure per student for library: $95.00
Ratio of library expenditure to college budget: 4.4%

The most striking fact is that Davidson has fewer books than any of these twenty-eight colleges with which Davidson is frequently compared. The college which has the smallest library (though larger than Davidson's), Sewanee, is now conducting a campaign for a library of 350,000 volumes and a new library building with a capacity of 600,000 volumes.

Smith Rare Book Room Receives New Editions

Dr. Harold M. Marvin of New Haven, Conn., a specialist in the field of heart disease, has given to the Davidson College Grey Memorial Library more than 300 handsome limited press books, many from the Golden Cockerel Press. Dr. Marvin was graduated from Davidson College in 1914. This latest gift to the library at Davidson will be placed in the Smith Rare Book Room, dedicated this past May. Between 10 a.m. and 12 noon tomorrow, the cases in the Smith Rare Book Room will be open with an attendant on duty, so that returning alumni and other visitors may visit the room. The Smith Rare Book Room honors the memory of four Smith brothers, prominent ministers and educators, all alumni of Davidson, whose home originally was in Greensboro: Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president of Davidson for 25 years, then president of Washington and Lee University; Dr. Egbert Watson Smith, minister and secretary of the Executive Committee of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, U.S.; Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, professor at U.S. Naval Academy and at the University of Virginia; and Dr. Hay Watson Smith, who held a long, noted pastorate at Little Rock, Ark. The room, located on the second floor of the Grey Library, was donated by C. Alphonso Smith of Alexandria, Va., son of Dr. C. Alphonso Smith.