PAGE FOUR

EAST MEETS WEST

Prof. W. P. Cumming meets Indian Vice-president Zakir Husseing at a Fulbright Conference.

Cummings Leave India After Year Of Teaching

After a year of teaching in India and Japan, Dr. William P. Cumming has returned to the Davidson English Department. His year included such varied experiences as tea with a maharajah in a white marble palace, an interview with Nehru, being in a crossfire between Viet Cong guerillas and a Vietnamese gunboat on the Mekong River, and revisiting his own birthplace in Japan.

Dr. Cumming was appointed by the United States Department of State as Fulbright Lecturer in English at Annamalai University in Madras State, South India, 150 miles south of the city of Madras and 11 degrees north of the equator. The university, which numbers 5300 men and 340 women students, between whom there was no social communication, named Dr. Cumming Visiting Professor of English and American Literature.

Mrs. Cumming, who holds her master’s degree from Oxford University and has taught at Smith College in Massachusetts and at Queens College in Charlotte, was given a travel grant by the Fulbright Commission. She was appointed Visiting Professor of English at Annamalai University. There she taught American literature to graduates and headed the first Institute of Spoken English for undergraduates in India.

At Annamalai University, the Cummings experienced a world of marked contrasts. Against a background of primitivism in the surrounding villages, there were displays of excellence in modern scientific and cultural achievement. While their mode of transportation was a two-wheeled bullock cart, they lived among colleagues who held degrees and honors from all over the western world.

In the second semester, they will introduce to Davidson one of their most distinguished colleagues, Dr. S. P. Adinarayan, professor of psychology.

In January, Robert Cumming, son of Dr. and Mrs. Cumming, completed his tour of duty in the Peace Corps. He visited with his parents in India and taught in the summer Institute of Spoken English at Annamalai. Together the three Cummings participated in several seminars instituted by the United States Information Service, chiefly for the purpose of introducing American Literature to India.

On the return voyage, Dr. and Mrs. Cumming visited Ceylon, Singapore, Saigon, and Hong Kong. Having left Japan as a boy, Dr. Cumming returned to the island nation exactly 50 years later. The pair was welcomed to the faculty of Shikoku Christian College, an institution on the southern island of Shikoku, where they taught the students majoring in English for five weeks. The Japanese college is partly sponsored by the Southern Presbyterian Church; two faculty members, Arch Taylor and Jack Bridgman, were former students of Dr. Cumming. Yokohito Hijiya, who has just entered Davidson as a Richardson Scholar, served as an assistant to the Cummings at Shikoku College.

The couple lectured also at the Kinjo Gakuin, an outstanding college and school for women in Nagoya; Dr. Cumming’s mother had been the second principal of the school. Winding up their trip around the world, the Cummings spent a day in Hawaii and landed in San Francisco on the opening day of the Republican Convention. Their final official act of the trip was a two-day “debriefing” session with the State Department in Washington.

1001 Enroll Here For Fall Semester

The bursar’s office reports that 1001 full-time students have enrolled in Davidson College this year. A breakdown by classes shows 279 freshmen, 256 sophomores, 214 juniors (not counting the 24 men in the Junior-Year-Abroad program), and 231 seniors. There were 13 dropouts from the class of ‘67 for various reasons. H. Edmund White, Associate Director of Admissions, remarked that the figure was “unusually low—the lowest in recent years.” The class of ‘66 is smaller by 40; 24 are studying this year in France or Germany; 16 dropped out for other reasons. The class of ‘65 did not lose anyone; however, these statistics do not allow for special cases. Not counting the 24 students abroad, 3.8 per cent of the upper classes dropped out of school for all reasons. Seven sophomores and two juniors transferred to Davidson this year.

Davidson’s annual recruiting drive has netted 24 new men and women—13 faculty members, five administrators, four military men, and two coaches. The new faculty members are:

ANTHONY S. ABBOTT, AB, AM, PhD; assistant professor of English; married, two children.
CHARLES CORNWELL, AB, MA; instructor in English; single.
PETER VAN EGMOND, AB, MA, working on PhD at UNC; instructor in English; married, two children.
MISS CORA LOUISE NELSON, BS, PhD; assistant professor of economics; single.
THOMAS A. WILLIAMS, JR., AB, MA, working on PhD at UNC; assistant professor of French; married, one child.
HANSFORD M. EPES, JR., AB, working on PhD at UNC; instructor in German; single.
ROBERT D. KAYLOR, AB, BD, PhD; assistant professor of Bible; married, two children.
L. RICHARDSON KING, BS, PhD; assistant professor of mathematics; married.
ALAN B. BRINKLEY, AB, MA, PhD; assistant professor of philosophy; married, two children.
SAMUEL A. DICKSON, JR., BS, PhD; assistant professor of physics; single.
T. A. ROGERSON, AB, MA, working on PhD at FSU; assistant professor of Spanish; single.

The new administrators include:
ROBERT G. JONES, AB, BD, PhD; assistant dean of students and assistant professor of psychology; married.
ROBERT T. STONE, AB; assistant to the president; married.

Nine faculty members will be on temporary leave this year:
DR. E. R. MacCORMAC, associate professor of philosophy, to serve as assistant to the president at the University of Minnesota.
DR. M. E. POLLEY, associate professor of Bible, writing a book in England.
DR. C. E. RATLIFF JR., professor of economics, on the second year of his three-year leave to teach in Pakistan.
DR. J. S. PURCELL, JR., professor of English; doing research at UNC.
C. E. LLOYD, assistant professor of English, to complete his PhD at UNC.
DR. FRANCIS GHIGO, professor of French, with the Davidson juniors in France.
DR. T. O. PINKERTON, associate professor of German, with the Davidson juniors in Germany.
J. B. STROUD, instructor in mathematics, continuing work on his PhD.
DR. W. D. WORKMAN, professor of psychology, will be doing research work in California during the second semester.

Six faculty members have gone permanently:
DR. J. C. ALBERGOTTI, assistant professor of physics, retiring.
MISS ANN S. CUMMING, instructor in mathematics, resigned.
DR. J. H. GRIFFITH, professor of history, resigned.
DR. J. R. HARRIS, professor of chemistry, resigned.
DR. J. W. HARRIS, professor of biology, resigned.
DR. R. L. WILLIAMS, professor of sociology, resigned.

Pledge Regatta Set For Saturday

Official pledge class competition will be “launched” this fall when the first annual Pledge Class Regatta takes place on Lake Norman, Saturday, Sept. 26. Each pledge class must construct its own vessel at a cost not exceeding five dollars. All boats must be either sail or muscle-powered, and no regulation paddles or oars may be used. Each craft must bear a rope with three balloons attached which will serve as a marker should any sinkings occur. All wrecks will be salvaged for the sake of posterity. A three-man crew will sail each craft from the jetty at theswimming area of the Lake Campus, down the lake shore, and across a finish line at the college boat launching ramp. The prizes, donated by Sigma Phi Epsilon, a trophy and $25 for first place, $10 for second, and $3 for third, will be presented at half-time of the Davidson-Mississippi College football game later in the afternoon.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

A Letter From Rochester

(Editor’s note: Tim Kimrey was working in Rochester, N.Y., this past summer when the seemingly tranquil city’s tensions boiled over into the streets. He recorded his impressions in a letter to Rick Von Unwerth, a fraternity brother. Both Kimrey and Von Unwerth serve as associate editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN.)

Dear Rick,

Well, the Long Hot Summer came to Rochester this week, bringing with it all the anguish and bitterness we had expected. As you know, Susan and I have been working here all summer in a predominantly Negro slum, and I thought you might like to hear from someone who is not exactly proud to be an “insider.” If nothing else, writing this brief epistle will provide me an opportunity to air some of my feelings on what these race riots mean to Rochester and to white America in general.

I don't know what kind of coverage the press down there has given to this mess, so I hardly know where to begin telling you about what has been going on. The initial riot started at a street dance last Friday when a cop tried to arrest a Negro youth who was a little plastered. Within thirty minutes the air was full of bricks and the streets were filled with cops and rioting Negroes. This went on all night over on Joseph Avenue, which is in the Seventh Ward, and it broke out with twice the intensity Saturday night down in the Third Ward. These two areas are the main Negro ghettos in Rochester.

As you might expect, all of Rochester was in a stir on Saturday, and has been ever since for that matter. It was really a sight to see all the so-called liberal members of the white power-structure running around asking one another, “How could this ever have happened in Rochester?” To most of the nation, Rochester has enjoyed the reputation of being God's Country as far as race relations are concerned. And in comparison to Birmingham and Mississippi, this may have been a valid claim. But now this image is shattered — much to the amazement of the white citizenry.

I really think it’s a good damn thing this happened in Rochester, if it had to happen anywhere; it really points out to all America how far we have left the Negro from freedom and happiness, despite all our claims to the contrary. I have been able to see one thing very clearly during this time. And that is that the do-good, benevolent white liberal is almost as harmful as the outright segregationist, and much more difficult to fight. So many well-meaning whites think that love and justice are the only things the Negro has coming to him, and they completely overlook the most important thing of all — power. By power I do not mean strength and the ability to force, but simply the ability to mold one’s own destiny and to shape one’s own future. This the Negro does not have, and this hell will not cease until he is able to stand in society and say, “I am a man and I am free to make of myself the greatest thing my abilities will permit.”

I never thought I would find myself following Martin Luther King on much of anything, but this summer has really changed me. That guy has really got a lot of right ideas on power and direct non-violent action and the like. His book "Why We Can’t Wait" is so pointed and so right. Please read it. Moreover, this Southern Christian Leadership Conference, of which he is the head, appears to me to be holding all the high cards among the various civil-rights groups. As the only Christian civil-rights group, they are able to deal more effectively with the whole man. And the basis of their movement is love, and not revenge, as so many whites fear.

I'm afraid I’m really caught up in the so-called Movement. It’s great! A few nights ago Susan and I went to a big mass meeting that some of the SCLC boys organized. We were with about three other white people among 700 or so Negroes. Maybe this sounds kinda silly, but right at the end of the meeting they all joined hands and sang “We Shall Overcome” and all that. And, Rick, I don't think I have ever been so embarrassed and ashamed to be white. Hell, I just wanted to crawl under a seat somewhere. I keep wondering where love has gone and if white men in this freedom-loving country of ours will ever recognize the Negro as a human being. Maybe someday....

Hopefully,
Tim

Classic poplin raincoat: 65% “Dacron” polyester, 35% cotton
Natural-shoulder blazer: 
Button-down plaid sport shirt: 65% “Dacron” polyester, 35% cotton
3-button suit with vest: 55% “Dacron” polyester, 45% worsted
Slip-on moccasins: of “Corfam” poromeric
Striped Oxford button-down: 65% “Dacron” polyester, 35% cotton
Brushed, crew-neck sweater: 100% “Orion” acrylic
Zip-front ski parka with hood: 100% Du Pont nylon
Tapered stretch slacks: “Dacron” polyester, worsted, “Lycra” spandex

S. W. MANSOUR, instructor in mathematics, also going back to graduate school.
DR. W. H. TILLEY, associate professor of English, to be chairman of the English department at Milliken College in Illinois.
DR. D. W. TUCKER, assistant professor of Spanish, to serve as professor of Spanish at Southwestern in Memphis, Tenn.

Matelassé-textured bedspread, 10.95
Great new idea. Great fun. Lusty terry towels in your school colors. And blankets and bedspreads to go with! Coordinated. Collegiate. Commotion-provoking! What a way to wow the campus! So go buy yours. And wow ‘em.

THE YOUNG MAN IN THE KNOW: WHAT HE’S WEARING THIS FALL

Here are some of the clothes that rate with college men this fall. We know. Because we asked them. Campus leaders from all parts of the country gave us the word at the 3rd Annual Du Pont College/Career Fashion Conference. Stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orion”, “Lycra”, “Corfam”. These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”,