PAGE SIX

Foreigners Begin Study

This year Davidson’s twelve Richardson Scholars come from nine foreign countries. Each of them rooms with a Davidson upperclassman and boards at one of the twelve fraternities on campus.

Michael Light, 19, from Harts, England, is interested in economics and may enter commerce or banking professionally. He has attended the Monkton Combe School, where he was a prefect and Head Boy of House. His activities in school have ranged from debating to rugby, hockey, and cricket. Light is boarding with Sigma Nu.

Rowing, gym work, and drama are included in the activities of Simon Blackford, 19, from Surrey, England. He is interested in history and philosophy, and attended the Bryanston School, where he was a member of the debating society and a member of political and literary discussion societies. While at Davidson, Blackford is boarding at Phi Gamma Delta.

Nineteen-year-old Giorgio Rosso will be associated with Pi Kappa Alpha. From Triest, Italy, Rosso is interested in economics and plans to take a doctor’s degree in economics from an Italian university. His interests have included fencing, tennis, swimming, and debating.

After studying at Davidson for a year, Kurt Pedersen will return home and begin a seven-year study of history and English at the University of Copenhagen, Denmark, to prepare himself to be a history professor. Affiliated with Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Pedersen is interested in politics and modern history. At twenty, he has taught English and German privately. He has formerly had an American Field Service student in his home.

Alexis Johan Dop is from the Netherlands and is eighteen. He is interested in natural history, and his plans for the future include study in tropical agriculture at a Dutch University. He is affiliated with Phi Delta Theta. Dop enjoys sailing, plays hockey, and is interested in music.

Yasuto Yoshioka grew up in a rural area in western Japan. For the past three and a half years, he has been studying Spanish in Osaka. He is interested in Latin America with respect to its great potentiality of growth and development in the near future. Other interests include music, archery, and photography. Yasuto is boarding with Beta Theta Pi. After leaving Davidson, Yasuto, 23, plans to do graduate study and eventually enter the electrical manufacturing industry.

Daniel Veinfeld has studied at the University of Aix located in his hometown of Marseilles, France. He also has spent six months in London studying and working. He is twenty-one and is affiliated with Sigma Chi. His interest in sports ranges from football and judo to swimming. He is interested in American culture and plans to explore it further during his stay at Davidson.

---

DR. CORA L. NELSON
Female Professor

By TED GLUSMAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

If you’ve seen some wild-eyed economics majors coming out of Rooms 132 and 229 Chambers Building lately, it’s only because they've just seen their new professor, Dr. C. L. Nelson, but the initials stand for “Cora Louise!” Davidson's only female faculty member comes from Henderson, by way of the University of North Carolina, where she received her BS and PhD in economics. While attending UNC, she distinguished herself by winning numerous fellowships, including the Harold Stonier Fellowship in Banking, marking the first time this award has been won by a woman.

Not satisfied with this achievement, however, Dr. Nelson has now gained the lofty distinction of being the only female member of the Davidson faculty. Fortunately for her students, she seems to feel no need to prove herself. In fact, she’s completely unaffected by the whole thing. Being in a field where there are few women, she is used to being in, and teaching all-boy classes. “They look just like other classes to me,” she said. She does, however, make one distinction between Davidson classes and others she has taught: “I would expect them to be much better.”

In commenting on being surrounded by the men of the Davidson faculty and student body, Dr. Nelson pointed out that she was not the first to break the sex barrier, referring specifically to a biology lab instructor from last year. “I'm sort of outnumbered, but it has been done before," she quipped.

Besides being impressed with the Davidson student, Dr. Nelson remarked that her reception by the “Davidson gentleman” has been “extremely cordial.” She looks forward to developing this relationship with her students, starting with faculty visitations in October. She nevertheless posed an indirect warning to her students: “When asked about the Davidson student body as a whole, she observed, “The good students around here, that's pretty nice.” Then she paused, and continued, “I hope I’ll be able to say the same thing later!”

---

To Provide Year Of Study

Only a short time remains in which to apply for Fulbright-Hays scholarships for the academic year 1965-66. Seniors who are interested in applying are urged by Dr. J. O. Embry, Davidson Fulbright Advisor, to see him within the next week. Applications must be completed by the end of October, and this is a lengthy process. On Nov. 3 and 4, student applications will go before the Faculty Committee on Fulbright Scholarships for consideration.

More than 900 graduate grants to 53 countries are available through the U.S. Department of State’s educational exchange program, which is authorized by the Fulbright-Hays Act. A full Fulbright grant provides round-trip transportation, tuition, maintenance, and health and accident insurance for one academic year of study or research.

In the past three years, six Davidson seniors have been awarded grants under the sponsorship of the Fulbright program. John Hall, class of ‘64, is now studying in Germany on a Fulbright scholarship. Phil Lewis, also of the class of ‘64, who was awarded a foreign government assistantship to France, received a Danforth Award and is using the latter for graduate study at Yale University. John McElfresh, ‘63, was awarded a Fulbright to Mexico, and James Nichols of the same class was awarded a teaching assistantship to Pakistan. In the class of ‘62, Joe Robinson won a Fulbright to Germany, and Andy Vance won a teaching assistantship to France.

Because of the importance of inter-American relations, the United States government is offering special opportunities to U.S. students for study in Latin America. International Fellowships sponsored by the Rotary Club are also available for study abroad. However, applications for these awards must be submitted by March of the Junior year of the candidate. A Junior who is interested should see Dr. Embry before the Christmas recess. Dr. Embry pointed out that Freshmen and Sophomores are eligible for Davidson's Junior Year Abroad program.

---

Eight Men Join Group At Manor

The Lingle Manor organization, a campus social group with membership open to all students, has begun to make tentative plans for the year, its membership increased by eight of this year’s Freshman Class. During Rush Week, upperclass members of the group contacted freshmen in their rooms. Two freshman open houses were held; one on Thursday afternoon, the other on Saturday afternoon. Following the Saturday event, a dinner was served by Lingle Manor for all interested freshmen.

New freshman members are Ross Brown, Dan Carlson, Roger Duttweller, Bruce Martin, De Rodgers, Steven Schaeffer, Dick Spencer, and Mason Stephenson. These freshmen plan to enter a crew in the first annual Freshman Regatta tomorrow afternoon at Lake Norman, and hope to decorate the Lingle Manor house for Homecoming Weekend. Upperclass members of the Manor will give voluntary assistance to their freshman members, and plan to organize a study hall for freshmen in the Lingle Manor house.

Lingle Manor hopes to schedule activities for each of the three major social weekends. Proposed plans for these functions are currently being formulated by the organization's Board of Directors, consisting of Pat Fisher, Dick Vines, B. A. Aiken, Calvin Zon, Mal Lane, Hunter Hill, Larry Noah, and Rufus Hallmark. John Rankin is the group's representative to the Interfraternity Council, and Dr. Sam Maloney is the faculty advisor.History and plans to do future work in political studies and became a professor, if possible; a specialist in American and Occidental problems. Michel Durand, 22, from Lyon, France, is boarding with Alpha Tau Omega. His interests range from music to sports, and he has been a leader for youth groups. Durand plans to continue his studies of English and French at the University of Lyon and eventually to teach language. Fishing, hiking, tennis, and swimming are enjoyed by twenty-two-year-old Yukihito Hijiya from Kochiken, Japan. Phi Gamma Delta is his host fraternity. At school, he was a member of the student council, tennis club, and chorus. He is interested in music and plans to attend graduate school. Work at the Instituto de Resseguros and at a bank occupied Luis Carles da Silva Joaquim before he came to Davidson from Estado do Rio, Brazil. He attended Centro Cultural Brazil Estados Unidos on a scholarship. He has a variety of interests which include geography, economics, and sports. Joaquim’s Davidson fraternity is Pi Kappa Phi. He plans to continue his study of economics and his work at the Instituto de Resseguros de Brazil. Frederic Ehlers has been director of a youth group which conducts weekly radio programs in his hometown of Quito, Ecuador. He is eighteen and has attended the American School of Quito and the American School of Guayaquil and was director of student activities at the latter. He enjoys track and basketball. Ehlers is particularly interested in literature and plans to specialize in English and journalism. He boards with Sigma Phi Epsilon. Hans Elof Gustav Lingren is from Soderhamn, Sweden. Lingren is nineteen and likes swimming, skating, and skiing. At school, he was a member of the council of pupils which made social arrangements and provided liaison between teachers and pupils. He has been sent on several trips as a scholarship winner. Lingren is associated with Kappa Sigma. Richardson scholarships are made possible by funds from the Richardson Foundation, the Mary Lynn Richardson Fund of Greensboro, and the Richardson family which founded and developed the Vick Chemical Company, now called the Richardson-Merrell Company. These scholarships are awarded on a competitive basis, and recipients are selected with the cooperation of committees in their home countries and the Institute of International Education in New York.

(Staff Photo by NEW MAIN STREET OF DAVIDSON Changes Over The Summer)

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1964 Davidson Merchants Experience Change By ALLEN WEBS Davidsonian Staff Writer

The sleepy village of Davidson is not what it used to be. Gone is Pop Copeland's "Jungle," replaced by Sigmon’s, a brand new five-and-ten-cent store. Managed by Mrs. Bryant Sigmon, who has left her work at the Coffee Cup Restaurant to her husband, the store fulfills a lifelong ambition for her. The old Jungle, now known as Copeland's, has replaced Marietta’s, formerly a women's apparel shop. The gutted skeleton of McKissick’s Shoe Shop makes a grim appearance on Main Street. A fire on the night of August 21 destroyed the small shop and $1,300 worth of new shoes that were stored in the back. Sparked by a faulty wire, the fire spread to an adjacent real estate office and damaged it heavily. Mr. McKissick continues his business by doing his work in his brother’s shop in Charlotte. At the Davidson Printing Company, a new linotype machine has been installed and a new operator hired. The “new” six-page DAVIDSONIAN prompted the purchase of the additional machine as well as a new press which will be installed later this year. P. Nicholls’ has opened a fabric and sewing accessories shop in the back of the store. With retail fabric goods for sale at wholesale prices, the shop has drawn many customers from Charlotte and Concord. In partnership with two fabric salesmen, Nicholls has created Fabrics of America, Inc. They sold the college the new draperies in East Dormitory. Mary Potts and Murray Fleming of the M and M Soda Shop closed their establishment for five weeks this summer while the ceiling was lowered, walls were painted, and the restroom was redone. New lights were also installed. Murray reports that the remodeling is nearly complete. A little more painting must be done.

OUTLAW BECOMES NEW PMS Ferguson To Command Cadet Corps

Cadet Col. Jim Ferguson, a senior from Laurens, S.C., will assume command of Davidson's newly reorganized ROTC cadet corps at next Tuesday's drill. Several personnel changes have been made this year in the ROTC staff. Taking over as PMST is Col. Frederick B. Outlaw. The corps has been reorganized into a Cadet Brigade in line with new organization in the United States Army. Instead of a corps headquarters and five rifle companies, as used in the past, this year’s plan calls for a brigade headquarters and two battalion headquarters, with each battalion headquarters controlling three rifle companies. Band company and the honor guard will compose the remainder of the brigade. The brigade headquarters will consist of Ferguson as the Commanding Officer; Cadet Major Lanier Burns from Knoxville, Tenn., as Executive Officer; Cadet Major Ronnie Ayers of Roanoke, Va., Adjutant; Cadet Major Gary Nedwed, Port Washington, N.Y., Intelligence; Cadet Major Mike Thurman, Atlanta, Operations; and Cadet Major Charles Marshall from Lancaster, S.C., Supply. Battalion commanders will be Cadet Lt. Cols. Buddy Dubose of Charlotte, N.C., 1st Battalion, and Bobby Waites from Columbia, S.C., 2nd Battalion. Company commanders include Cadet Captains David Grant, Company A; J.S. Stephens, Company B; Jimmy Jones, Company C; Barry Teague, Company D; Albert James, Company E; and Jim Hardwick, Company F. Serving in 1st Battalion Headquarters will be Abbott Whitney, Executive Officer/Adjutant; Dick Bates, Intelligence Officer; Jim Beasley, Operations; and Tommy James, Supply. On the 2nd Battalion staff are Bill Wideman, Executive Officer/Adjutant; Joe Bird, Intelligence; Dale Keller, Operations; and Ken Essex, Supply. A graduate of Birmingham Southern College, Col. Outlaw has served in various capacities in the army since 1935. He participated in many campaigns in the Pacific during the second World War and has since served in Puerto Rico, Turkey, Germany, Korea, and various posts in the United States, including a stint with the Department of the Army and Inspector General of the 8th Army. Stepping into the position of MS-I instructor is Maj. Ralph A. Gill. A native of Pennsylvania, Gill attended Michigan State University on a football/wrestling scholarship and has served in various artillery air-defense posts in Japan, Germany, Wisconsin, and Texas. In addition to being MS I instructor, he will also handle the duties as supply officer and commandant of cadets. Capt. Harold J. Fraley will assume duties as MS II instructor and will also coach the rifle team. A graduate of Eastern Kentucky State College, Fraley has served with the 10th Infantry Division in Germany and has received training in Special Forces techniques at Fort Bragg. A final addition to the ROTC staff is Master Sergeant Paul M. Poteat from Marion, N.C. Poteat has served three years with the 82nd Airborne and has also received special forces training at Ft. Bragg. In 1961 he was cited as outstanding soldier of the year at Fort Benning. Sgt. Poteat's duties at Davidson will be to assist in MS II instruction and in the area of operations.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.C.

Motelassé-textured bedspread, 10.95 LA King-size, 25x50, bath towel, 2.98 “Insulaire” thermal blanket, 10.00

MORGAN-JONES new Varsity Stripes... coordinates cum laude?! Great new idea. Great fun. Lusty terry towels in your school colors. And blankets and bedspreads to go with! Coordinated. Collegiate. Commotion-provoking! What a way to wow the campus! So go buy yours. And wow 'em.

Morgan Jones DIVISION OF SPRINGS MILLS, INC. 404 FIFTH AVE., N.Y., N.Y. 10018