FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1964

Side Lights BY RICK LOWERY

A CANDIDATE TOLD ME SO.... Evidently, student use of the gym during basketball seasons remains a problem. Earlier this year the gym was opened three nights a week in an attempt to lose the existing burden on this single facility. But with the interfraternity basketball season and varsity practice sessions, even this plan proved inadequate. Perhaps the time has arrived to consider construction of additional athletic facilities. The present gymnasium was constructed when the student body numbered approximately 700. At the present time, there is little doubt that these facilities have been outgrown. The increased size of the student body has created a need both for more playing facilities and team locker rooms. In my opinion, the track team, baseball team, soccer team, and tennis team at present have facilities which are both inadequate and inconvenient. The basketball, wrestling, and swimming locker rooms on the other hand are convenient to the facilities and areas in which they practice. New athletic facilities could be constructed either as an addition to the present gym or as a complete new unit. For the sake of convenience and expense, an addition to this gym would seem most logical. Such an addition could be built toward the tennis courts on land used now for parking and a small access road. This building could contain an auxiliary gym to be used for the “rat” leaguers. In addition, the building would house several team locker rooms for visiting and Davidson teams. Provisions for several other handball courts could also be included. Recently the tennis and baseball facilities at Davidson have been improved. While neither is perfect (especially baseball), an obvious improvement has been made. The limited nature of the gym facilities has pointed to another area in which the physical plant of Davidson could be improved. In light of the number of students who make use of these facilities from the varsity athlete to the handball player, I hope that some improvement can be made in the picture.

BASEBALL BY STRAUSER

This year the ‘Cats find themselves in a unique position. In college baseball, there is a definite scarcity of capable pitchers and catchers. If a graduating high school athlete in either of these positions shows a good bit of natural ability, he finds himself with a tempting professional offer; those who resist the temptation have no trouble parleying their prowess into a free ride through college. Where does this leave Davidson with no baseball scholarships? The answer has been all too obvious for the faithful handful who have followed Davidson baseball. This all adds up to the unique position mentioned above. Believe it or not, the ’Cats seem to have a pitching staff this year. Although it’s too early to be speaking in tongues about Coach Stevens’ mound crew, the combination of Earl Cole, Paul Briggs, Dave Johnson, Dick Snyder, Barry Teague, Ronnie Rudolph, and Howard Bryan could be potent. Could be? Well, all we can talk about with any certainty is the showing against Catawba and Pfeiffer. There is good reason to believe that Bryan may be a capable reliever—to wit, his stint against a good Pfeiffer team. Cole has blown hot and cold in his two appearances but if we may venture a prediction—Cole is going to come through when it counts. Dave Johnson has a smooth delivery and has been known to turn in a good performance on a given afternoon. But then there are afternoons when he can get no one out—and Johnson remains a question mark. Of the remaining three pitchers, Briggs has been the most consistent deliverer. Paul’s development could be a key to a good season. Teague, when he is good, is sensational. And when he is not good... But anyone who remembers a day not many months ago when Barry took the mound against G. W. will have to concede that he has what it takes to play for anyone, anywhere. In all fairness, he starts slowly and it will be at least mid-season before the questions are answered. That leaves Snyder, who has no varsity experience. As Eddie Earle will attest, Dick throws as hard as anyone in the immediate area and could supply the needed depth to the staff. He is starting to move the ball around now and is developing a moving fastball that could make him an effective starter.

Too many ifs? No more than usual, and this could be the year for the ’Cats to come through—despite the mole tunnels in right field.

QUESTIONS

When did Steve Heckard weigh 218? Is Handball over? If so, isn’t Louis Norman the undefeated champion? The most widely kept secret is Cozzie Russell’s ankle. If pro basketball practice starts in the late summer and early fall, how many Olympic prospects will be forced to forego the games? Shouldn't last week’s headlines have read: Oh, Jeff Mullins? Are the ATO’s or the Kappa Sigs the best interfraternity basketball team? And isn’t it possible that neither was? Was it possible that Princeton and Connecticut were the fourth best teams in the East? Will the Phi Delts ever lose the annual track meet (exception of last year)?

ATO’s And Kappa Sigs Basketball Co-Champs

CHARLIE ROWE TOTES BEARD and all off the plank in THE DAVIDSONIAN

Woody Cleveland, playing in the number one position, led the onslaught that saw Cumberland lose 108 consecutive regular games and 12 more contests in an exhibition match. Sophomores Bill Council and Jeff Frank joined with Bill Shutt, Frank Bumgardner, and team captain John Ariail to complete the Davidson singles sweep, and Dave Meschan, also a sophomore, blanked his Cumberland foe in his exhibition game. Cumberland’s massacre was completed when doubles combinations of Shutt and Council, Ariail and Bumgardner, and Frank and Meschan all swept 6-0, 6-0 victories. “This is the first time in my 21 years of coaching that a team of mine has won every game,” Fogleman commented. “However, Cumberland only began tennis two years ago, so this can hardly be considered a typical game.” Tomorrow afternoon, the ‘Cats tackle Ohio Wesleyan on the Davidson courts, and sophomore Dick Hurd, who was in a lab yesterday, will play in the top position. “Cleveland, Hurd, Council, and Shutt are all so evenly matched,” reports Fogleman, “that I haven't been able to establish the first four positions. After the first four games, each will have played the number one singles once, and I’ll try to set a definite order then.”

PAGE THREE

Netmen Devastate Cumberland With Surprisingly Powerful Attack

Davidson’s sophomore-dominated net squad demolished a hapless team from Cumberland College 9-0 yesterday, whitewashing the Kentuckians 6-0, 6-0 in every match to open the season that Coach Harry Fogleman hopes “is the beginning of putting Davidson back on the tennis map where it used to be.” “We don’t have a greatly outstanding number one man, but we will be adequately strong through our eight positions. This balance makes for a better overall team because many matches are decided in the bottom half of the record,” Fogleman explains. “I’m especially looking forward to Thursday’s match with Cincinnati since I used to coach there,” Fogleman reports. Other contests next week are against Amherst, Wednesday, and Williams, Friday.

‘Cat Nine Faces Pfeiffer After Losing To Same BY FORREST ROLES

Davidson's promising baseball team went after its first regular season win today against Pfeiffer. The ’Cats won an abbreviated exhibition game against Catawba last Friday, and lost a frustrating game to Pfeiffer last Tuesday.

Fagg Grabs Three Firsts To Pace Phi Delt Victory

The annual IMAC track meet finals, held Wednesday afternoon, brought back first place to the Phi Delts after an upset ATO victory last spring. The Delts scored 38 points to overpower the field of also-rans, who were easily led by the Betas’ 24 points. In third place following the Betas with 14½ points were the Phi Gams, who narrowly beat out the KA's with 14. The Kappa Sigs beat out the Sig Eps for fifth place. The rest of the teams were generally satisfied to eat the dust of the front runners and meekly collect their entrance points. The Phi Delts made the meet a farce mainly because of the outstanding showing of freshman John Fagg. His three firsts made him high point man for the meet. His throw of 138 feet 10 inches broke the IMAC record for the discus by 13 feet. He also captured firsts in the shot and high jump. The second place Betas were also led by a freshman—Mickey Andrews: he set a new IMAC record with his 23 seconds flat clocking in the 220-yard dash. Andrews anchored the winning relay team of the Betas and collected a third for them in the shot. The question of eligibility hurt many teams this year—in particular last year’s champions, Steve Heckard, All-Conference end who is now at quarterback for the ‘Cats, passed and ran well, according to Dole, in leading the Whites.Over the Blues 24-0. Said Dole, “We would like to have passed more but the bad weather interfered with our plans. I was encouraged by Heckard's performance; I thought he ran well.” Dole went on to note that his new quarterback was the only man on the White team who wasn't for the most part a defensive player this past year. The first touchdown for the Whites came on a Heckard return of a Jake Jacobson punt. Jacobson's kick carried down to the 26, where Heckard hauled it in, sidestepped two defenders who went sprawling in the mud, and ran to his right. A couple of blocks developed around the forty and several Blue defenders had a clear shot at the ball carrier, but Heckard came out of the muddy confusion and was all alone for the last 40 yards. Halfback Steve Smith ran 68 yards for one TD and was on the receiving end of a scoring pass from Heckard with 12 seconds to go. Gary Waldron set up the score with a pass interception. Dole was particularly impressed by the defensive play of ends Jim Rollins and Pack Hindsley and linebackers Waldron, Julian Fite, Dick Short, and Woody Hill. He expressed satisfaction with the punting of Heckard and Jacobson—"Better than at any time this last season."

The questions remain for next season to answer, and no dress rehearsal will ever be entered in the won-lost column. But today, five months before the ‘Cats open with Mississippi College, Dole is “encouraged.”

Heckard’s Switch To QB Key To Football Hopes

Although obviously hurt by graduation, Coach Bill Dole finds cause for optimism in looking forward to another year of Davidson football. After last Saturday's Blue-White game, played in steady rain on a soggy field, Dole announced that he was encouraged by several aspects of the game and the Spring practice session in general.

IMAC STANDINGS
ATO 11-1
Kappa Sig 11-1
Phi Gam 10-2
Phi Delt 8-3
Sigma Chi 8-4
KA 6-5
SAE 6-6
Independent 5-5
Pika 4-7
Beta 3-8
Nu 2-10
Sig Ep 1-9
Pi Kapp 0-11

Robert Dean, winner of the three-quarter mile run, was declared ineligible due to the surprise enforcement of an archaic rule which prevents winners of freshman certificates in cross country from running in the track meet. Other than the Phi Delt's party last Wednesday, this week saw the end of the IMAC handball season. Sammy Going, IMAC president, has not finished the tedious job of compiling the complete results of the season, but he did manage to discover the top three teams were the SAE's with a perfect 12-0 record, the Phi Delts with an 11-1 mark, and the Sig Eps with a 10-2 finishing record. At present, the rest of the league (for all practical purposes) lies jumbled somewhere behind these three.

The never-ending basketball season rolled on past another week. Although several key games still must be played (notably the Independent KA match), the positions appear to be nearly final. The ATO’s, Kappa Sigs, and Phi Gams have finished their seasons and are definitely the top three teams this year. Going has virtually ruled out volleyball for the second straight year and now the only sports remaining to be played are softball and tennis. Yet even with an unfinished season, it is obviously already a two-team race for the title. The main question left this year is whether or not the Kappa Sigs can break the Phi Delt hold on Davidson intramurals.

As Track Team Opens

BY ED McFARLAND

Five-event man Alan Turner will lead the Davidson thinclads into their first track meet of the season tomorrow afternoon in a triangular encounter with Lenoir Rhyne and High Point. Field events will begin at 2 p.m., and the running events will start at 2:30. The 440-yard relay, the first running event, has been added to regular track events this year by the NCAA. Davidson defeated Lenoir Rhyne 80-62 last year and did not meet High Point. Wildcat coach Heath Whittle reports that the ‘Cats will be strong in the mile and 100-yard dash. Veterans Tommy Heffner and Denny Phillips head the ‘Cats in the distance events. Sophomore David Brown should probably give the ‘Cats points in this event, according to Whittle. Alan Turner, a junior and winner of the team’s high scorer award last year, heads Whittle's harriers in the dashes and has already won the Southern Conference championship in the 60-yard dash. He also placed second in the 70-yard low hurdles in the hardwood meet at Blacksburg this winter. Saturday he will be running the 100 and 220-yard dashes, the 440 relay, the 220 low hurdles, and may also run in the mile relay. Billy Mills, captain of the team and holder of the pole vault record at 12’ 7½”, will score in the pole vault and will enter the broad jump, triple jump, high jump, and high hurdles.

In the first Pfeiffer game, the ‘Cats looked as if they were going to run off with the game by scoring four runs in the top of the first inning. The early splurge was capped by a long two-run home run by center-fielder Dick Snyder. Davidson's pitchers, however, were unable to hold the early lead. Starter Earl Cole barely escaped a shaky first inning, only to blow the lead in the third, when Pfeiffer scored three runs. Dave Johnson was just as ineffective in relief, and when he left in the sixth, Pfeiffer held a 7-4 lead. Howard Bryan held the home team batless the rest of the way, but the ‘Cats were unable to cut down the lead.

Outside of pitching, which is potentially a strong point, Davidson looked very good. There was but one error committed on defense, and the hitting was good enough to win most games. The pitching looked much better in the previous game against Catawba, in which both Cole and Johnson pitched well. The batters, led by Eddie Earle with two key singles, and Charlie Marcon with a single and a triple, drove nine runs across the plate, and the ‘Cats won the six-inning practice game 9-3. Coach Tom Stevens stated that although he was disappointed with his team's showing against Pfeiffer, their defensive play and hitting were very encouraging. “Our pitching seems to be a little slow in coming around,” he said. “We haven't had a great deal of time to work out, and several of the boys are working off sore arms. We'll be tough when that pitching comes around."

The Wildcats’ next game is against Belmont Abbey at Belmont next Tuesday. After that, the ‘Cats go on the annual spring trip, leaving Thursday evening. On the trip, the ‘Cats play last year’s NAIA champion Georgia Southern twice and then participate in the annual Rollins Tournament at Winter Park, Fla. The other teams are Rollins, Duke, and Colby (Maine). After the tournament, in which each team plays the other teams twice, the baseballers return home to begin conference play against Richmond.

Bumgardner is the fifth man, and Ariail is sixth. “Frank and Meschan are my seventh and eighth players, and they'll see a lot of action this year," Fogleman notes. Cleveland and Hurd, Councill and Shutt, Bumgardner and Ariail, and Frank and Meschan form the Davidson doubles combinations. Defending champion of the Ohio Conference, Ohio Wesleyan is the first real challenge on a schedule Fogleman calls, “probably the finest we have ever played.” Rollins, Williams, Amherst, North Carolina, and Duke head the list of non-conference tennis powers slated, while George Washington, Citadel, and Furman are the best among conference foes.

Dr. Marcus Bloch, L-Hy.
President
Eastern Magical Society
P. O. Box 118
New York 9, N. Y.

EUROPEAN JOBS

The trend among students is to work in Europe during the summer. Thousands of jobs (e.g. resort, lifeguarding, and office work) and travel grants are available to every registered student. Some wages are as high as $400 a month. For a complete prospectus, job and travel grant applications, a $1 ASIS book coupon, and Student I.D. Cards, send $1 to Dept. M, American Student Information Service, 22 Ave. de la Liberte, Luxembourg City, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.