FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1964

IFC EVENT

1964-65

Nov. 10— “Davidson Fraternity System: Past, Present and Future”—chapel program.
Nov. 13— Informal Dance: “The Catalinas”, Chambers Basement.
Nov. 14— Jazz Concert and Show: “Herbie Mann Sextet”.
Dec. 1 — Blood Drive.
Dec. 17 — (tent.) Parties.
Feb. 1— Barium Springs Christmas Pledge Banquet.
Feb. 16— Greek Week.
Feb. 12— Midwinters Concert: and Blues Show.
Feb. 13— Midwinters Formal: 9 p.m.—a.m. at Cotswold Shopping Center, Malls, Charlotte.
Feb. 24— Interfraternity Informal Rhythm at East and West Drama Festival begins.
March 2, 5, and 10 — Drama Festival continues; three one-act plays presented by different fraternities each night. Trophy presented
at Spring Function.
March 13— “Beyond the Fringe” smash Broadway satire-comic revue.
April 23-24— (tent).— Spring Frolics Weekend.

YMCA Drive Brings Little Student Support

Student response to the YMCA drive has not increased appreciably despite the continued efforts of volunteer canvassers and an editorial
plea in last week's DAVIDSONIAN. As sporadic contributions continue to come in very slowly, the YMCA projected need of $3,000
looms larger every day. According to YMCA Vice President Eric Nichols, “We currently have about $2,100, plus what little is
still to be turned in by various hall solicitors.” Nichols, who is in charge of the drive, cannot explain the
apparent indifference of the students. “In past years,” he added, “there were usually more than enough contributions. But this year
we're far behind.” The only two dormitories that have completed their YMCA Drive are Duke and East, the latter having
given more than any other dorm. Trailing far behind in the contribution race, Richardson Dormitory is running a poor sixth
out of six. Since voluntary donations from the student body are supposed to provide at least $3,000 of the $4,425
necessary for the coming year's budget, there remains a need for $900 more. If the budget is not met, the
YMCA will be forced to make cutbacks in its program. This would probably mean a smaller number of speakers for
“Great Issues” and forums. Even though the drive is over four weeks old, the YMCA Cabinet still has hope for
more donations. The cabinet members themselves are trying to solicit the faculty and administration, while the various hall solicitors are
being urged to renew their canvassing from room to room. Nichols reminds all students that any contributions, regardless of the
amount, would certainly help at this late date. He points out, “Since the YMCA concerns every student in some way
or another, any donation would in effect benefit the donor.”

Herbie Mann and his jazz sextet will headline the upcoming Interfraternity Council fall concert next Saturday night, November 14, at
8 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. This year's Fall Function will be “a novel departure from the sad-eyed, doom-forecasting folk singers”
according to IFC president Rick von Unwerth. Mann is a well-known figure on many college campuses where he, performing with
five other musicians, has presented his unique jazz style. Mann has combined the folk rhythm of many countries including those
of Africa and South America, with the standard American jazz figures to produce an unusual arrangement. His recent recordings “Desafinado”
and “Girl from Ipanema” are examples of this sound. Combined with the Latin and African numbers Mann has recorded several
conventional jazz tunes which have become standards. “Summertime” and “Comin’ Home Baby” are well-known compositions which have established his reputation
in jazz circles. With his sextet, highlighted by Chief Bey, a robed African percussionist who looks like a refugee from
the U.N., the appearance of Mann at Davidson will make a new and exciting type of weekend. Along with the
concert on Saturday, the IFC and the Union are jointly sponsoring a dance and show Friday night in the basement
of Chambers Building. Lasting from 7:30 to 11:30 this dance will feature the “Catalinas.” This dance is also a departure
from the norm, in that the IFC has been unable to sponsor more than three two-night weekends in the past.
A jazz concert, a rock and roll dance, a football game and after parties are the ingredients which add up
to a unique and colorful weekend. The IFC has tried and will continue to try to bring to the Davidson
campus entertainment which is pleasing to the majority of the student body and which is varied enough to make each
weekend an event to remember.

Choose Overseas Programs

By MIKE BATES
Davidsonian Staff Writer

As U.S. colleges enrolled record numbers of students this year, over 6,000 undergraduate students (mostly juniors) chose to spend at
least a portion of a school year at foreign universities in 60 nations around the globe. This exodus swells by
an average of 14 percent annually, about twice the growth rate of U.S. colleges. What motivates these young people? Much
more important than simple wanderlust and a youthful yen for freedom, professors say, is the challenge today’s students find in
dealing with new problems, unfamiliar languages, and strange cultures. Of course, the specialized European style of teaching is different from
the American. Therefore, the student needs special guidance of the kind now provided in many U.S.-sponsored foreign study programs. In
addition, proper language preparation is essential. A leader in the field of providing special guidance is the Institute of European
Studies, the largest sponsor of overseas academic programs for American undergraduates. The Institute reports that the cost of most programs
is surprisingly low—from $2,400 to $2,600 (including transportation) for a year. At our college, the Davidson Foreign Study Plan makes
available a Junior Year Abroad in France or Germany. Details are in the Reference Catalog. The results can be striking
academically. The consensus of U.S. professors is that students returning from sound programs are generally well advanced in their fields,
adept in using a foreign language as a study tool, and more disciplined in scholarly techniques.

Fraternity Discussions To Be Held Next Week

The fraternity system and its current situation at Davidson College will be the subject of a series of discussions next
week. Chapel programs on Monday and Tuesday and an Open End program on Wednesday night will feature this topic. Bob
Young, assistant director of admissions, will speak at Monday's chapel. Young stated that he will express his personal concern of
the situation, not necessarily the concern of the faculty and administration. However, his views will reflect the ideas of an
increasing number of the faculty, administration and student body who have talked with him concerning the present fraternity set-up. On
Tuesday, Rick von Unwerth, president of the Interfraternity Council, will address the student body at chapel. Von Unwerth will analyze
the points that Young makes as well as the recurrent faculty and administration criticisms of the fraternity set-up. In this
analysis he will consider the uniqueness of Davidson's system and the problems inherent in such a system. He will evaluate
the problems in view of the value of the Davidson fraternity system and the progress it has made. On Wednesday
evening at the Union, an Open End program will continue the discussion. It is hoped by both Young and von
Unwerth that the programs will not become a debate, but rather a fruitful discussion. These programs are not an official
action by the administration system as it now stands. Rather, the purpose is to get the current fraternity situation in
the open, and to get people talking and discussing the problems involved.

Student Lab Assistants Relieve Biology Staff

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

In a school as traditionally static as Davidson, any reactionary move is usually greeted with surprise and wonder. Going backwards
is just not the thing to do among the forward-looking members of the student body (or even among the status-quo
boys), and when such a step is taken by the ultra-liberal faculty, such extremism is indeed to be marveled at.
But Davidson has revived a practice of the past and is this year, making full use of it. The practice
is the policy of having student laboratory assistants in the primary lab sciences. This had not been done for at
least thirty-five years, until the beginning of this session, but now that it has been re-instituted it seems to be
on its way to becoming a permanent fixture. The students who have been chosen for these positions include Roger David,
Dan Broadhead, Barney Lewis, David Pfohl, Mac Mayes, Vernon Anderson, and Tommy Heffner. All are members of the Senior Class.
Briefly, the purpose of a laboratory assistant is to release the professor from hours of time-consuming aid in the laboratory
where he is scarcely more than a supervisor, and to enable more of his classes to meet at the same
time. For each of the professor's two labs there is one assistant, thus making the professor a sort of “straw
boss” who wanders between labs, answering questions, or who hardly need appear at all.

ASSISTANT’S DUTIES

The lab assistant’s duties are...

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Bailey
Johnston
Maloney
Plott
Brinkley
Jones
Marrotte
Rhodes
Cumming
Kaylor
Minter
Richey
Houchens
Lammers
Nelson
Smith
Jackson
McGeachy
Martin
Sterling

By BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Feature WriterOffice of DAVIDSONIAN Managing Editor, capably filled this year by Michael L. Harrington, affords a campus soapbox from
which one may speak to vital issues and inflame current opinion. Not one to let such power go begging, Harrington
has recently focused his attention on the national election. As a prognosticator, he enjoyed some success in his final prediction
of the election outcome. “Goldwater-Miller will get about 40 per cent of the popular vote and will carry only seven
States with 49 electoral votes," mused Harrington and the Christian Science Monitor on October 30.

TOTALS CORRECT

Those figures proved reasonably accurate; the Arizona Senator actually won in six states with a combined electoral vote of 52.
Of course, Florida, Wyoming, and Nebraska failed to take note that Harrington had placed them in the GOP column and
all three went to Johnson by slight margins. Unfortunately, the Managing Editor's errors of omission were not so easily explained.
The margin of Goldwater's victory in South Carolina and Georgia far outstripped Harrington’s fertile imagination, he placing both states in
the LBJ corral.

Only by tracing Harrington’s predictions through the weeks can the full extent of his powers be appreciated. On October 9,
the hopeful young journalist injected hope into the local GOP contingent with three rather remarkable forecasts. On that date, THE
DAVIDSONIAN carried the news that Senator Keating was winning in New York. Fortunately (or unfortunately—depending on viewpoint), Mr. Kennedy overcame
this deficit and carried the State by 800,000.

TERROR IN NEW ENGLAND

In Vermont and Maine, terror gripped the collective Democratic heart as Harrington announced the presidential race even in those two
states. The final results gave Johnson a 2-1 margin in both states, and no doubt many irate New Englanders canceled
their subscriptions. The week of October 16 was a bad one for the Managing Editor. Not only did he announce
Goldwater ahead and gaining in Tennessee, he went on to include the state twice in his forecast for the week
(fortunately he said the same thing both times). It is anticlimactic to note that Johnson carried the state by 100,000
out of one million votes cast.

“Ohio is a toss-up — watch Illinois for changing tide (to Goldwater).” Johnson carried both States rather handily and it
is to be hoped that few man-hours were lost watching for Harrington's “tide that wasn’t.” Harrington went on to call
Oklahoma “undecided,” to say that Goldwater was “closing the gap” in Missouri, and to award Nebraska to the Arizona Senator.
It is to be assumed that both Senator Goldwater and Michael L. Harrington would prefer to forget such optimism... and
as noted before, it was a bad week.

TOUGH BATTLE

To top off that week's ill-advised remarks, Harrington fought a tough battle with political reality in Indiana. In awarding the
state to Goldwater, Mike noted, “If Republicans don't carry this state, they won't carry a single one.” Johnson’s comfortable margin
silences further comment. In contrast, the following week was a relatively good one for the Managing Editor. He now rated
Wyoming a “toss-up” and gave Idaho to Goldwater but others who might have known better did likewise. That brought Harrington
to his final week’s predictions mentioned earlier. Worthy of note, the last national breakdown left out Tennessee—only fair considering the
state had been omitted two weeks earlier. Also, Harrington insisted that Alabama's unpledged electors would vote for Goldwater—an action forbidden
by State law.

As Mike Harrington must have sensed, American politics can make fools of the most learned of authorities. Indeed, Harrington did
better than many other local “authorities” and seemed to improve tremendously as the election approached... and the Christian Science Monitor
made its final survey.

To watch over the lab periods, preventing chaos and answering questions, he is chosen from the applicants by reason of
his ability in the course when he took it, and he must combine the talents of teacher, monitor, and janitor
in his job. This year there are seven lab assistants, six of whom are helping with freshman biology, and one
who assists with comparative anatomy. Between the time when this practice was first stopped (about 35 years ago) and this
year, the professors have run the labs themselves. This proved to be too much of a strain on them and
their time schedules, so two years ago a postgraduate, Joe Kelly, remained as the sole lab instructor. Last year, after
Kelly left, Miss Shannon Cumming took over. She too has moved on, for the mission field, leaving the administration almost
no alternative but to re-institute student lab instructors.

PUCKETT COMMENTS

Dr. W. Olin Puckett, who summed up the general opinion of the faculty on the subject, said, “It is certainly
not the best teaching in the world,” but admits that it takes a load off the professor, while giving the
students as good instruction as is needed for the laboratory. “After all,” he says, “it is a menial job for
a teacher, so it's hard to get someone good.” Therefore, students must suffice. Interestingly enough, Puckett was himself a sort
of lab assistant while at Davidson, hired by Prof. Martin for a year to help out in the laboratories. This
so interested Puckett in teaching that he gave up his ambitions in medicine and turned to professional teaching.

The attitude among the student assistants themselves is generally that it is a “good deal.” It takes only about seven
or eight hours a week, pays fairly well, and gives good teaching experience. (Only one of these boys will go
on in teaching; the rest will go to medical school but they claim it is still a valuable experience.) As
one of them, David Pfohl, stated, “On the whole, it is decidedly worth it.”

STUDENT OPINION

As for the students’ point of view, it is extremely varied. Most agree that the assistants are doing a fine
job and many prefer the system to that of having professors there full-time. “It gives,” said one, “a sense of
freedom, more or less, that there is still someone there who knows what he is doing and who can answer
most questions pretty well.” Criticism, however, varies from “They know more than the professors” to “They know less than we
do.” It seems to just be a matter of opinion.

PAGE THREE

MORE NON-SOUTHERNERS

Sixty-five high school seniors have been notified of their acceptance to the Class of 1969 on the Early Decision Plan,
H. Edmunds White, associate director of admissions, announced this week. The verbal section and 653 on the mathematics. This figure
approximately equals that of the freshman class.

DE-EMPHASIZES SAT

White, however, cautions against putting too much faith in these scores. He explained, “We ordinarily play down these scores because
they are far from the most important aspect of admissions.” “Also,” he continued, “anyone interpreting these scores should remember that
they are junior year scores and would probably average thirty to forty points better on the second try during their
senior year.”

SAME AS OTHERS

In other aspects, this group seems to be on about the same level as previous Early Decision groups. The present
freshman class had sixty-eight acceptances, as opposed to sixty-five for the Class of ‘69. The quality of the high school
records of these future freshmen are generally comparable with earlier groups; however, no statistics are available on this aspect. Says
White, “I don’t want to give the impression that this group isn’t good, but I get tired of hearing people
saying every year, ‘They’re great!’ All the classes here are good, and I hesitate to single out any one particular
group.”

NON-SOUTHERNERS

White was especially pleased that this class is continuing the trend toward greater geographical distribution which has been noticeable in
the past several years. Of the sixty-five members of the group, thirteen boys are from outside the South. An interesting
note is that there are five boys from Pennsylvania, as compared to only four in the entire Class of ‘68.

Publication Plans Set For Magazine

Plans for a “serious high-caliber literary magazine” along the lines of the Sewanee Review are being formulated, according to Bill
Garrard of the Eumanean Literary Society. An organizational meeting is scheduled for Monday night, November 9, at 7:30 in the
Eumanean Literary Society hall. All faculty members and students interested in the writing or organization are urged to attend.

Garrard, the principal organizer, revealed that, “We hope to produce a professional caliber, serious literary magazine with a national circulation.
Faculty and especially talented students may contribute any type of creative writing and possibly art work also.” Garrard emphasized the
fact, “This will not be in competition with Davidson's Scripts, which is more a student humor magazine with circulation confined
to the student body. The entire idea depends on the interest shown at the meeting Monday night,” stated Garrard, “and
also in the approval of the administration.”

DAVIDSONIAN PROGNOSTICATOR

Michael L. Harrington Comes Close
