RATLIFF REPORTS FROM PAKISTAN (See Page Two) Ch ye Bavidsontan The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College WILDCATS GO
FOR NUMBER 12 (See Page Three) VOL. LI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1964

Davidson Will Sponsor Foreign Study Program

(Staff Photo by McCutchen) FOREIGN STUDY CHAIRMAN DR. J. O. EMBRY Tacks up information on Junior Year Abroad program

YMCA's Forum Draws Avowed Atheist, Minister

Dr. Michael Scriven, an avowed atheist, will speak here on Tuesday, Feb. 4. Two days later an Episcopal minister will
talk with students about his experiences in the inner city of New York. Both speakers will be sponsored by the
YMCA Forum Series, which has as its topic for the year, “Challenges to the Christian Faith.”

The invitation to Dr. Scriven, who is a professor of history and philosophy of science at the University of Indiana
and who is a proponent of atheism, is an example of the program's aims as expressed by Bill Ferris and
Jay Federman, the Forum Committee’s co-chairmen: “The Forum's program will confront Davidson students with ideas outside the Judaeo-Christian tradition which
are not voiced on campus. The purpose of the program is to deepen student understanding of the problems faced by
religion in the twentieth century.”

Dr. Scriven's academic background includes a PhD from Oxford; terms as research associate at the Minnesota Center of Philosophy of
Science and as assistant professor in philosophy at Swarthmore College; and a two-semester fellowship at the Center for Advanced Study
in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford, Calif.

In the Tuesday assembly program, Dr. Scriven will speak on “The Non-Existence of God.” In addition to the coffee hour
after chapel, the Forum Committee has arranged for a tea in the guest house at 3 p.m. Tuesday afternoon. At
8:15 in the Morrison Room of the Union, Dr. Earl R. MacCormac, assistant professor of philosophy at Davidson, will participate
in a discussion with Dr. Scriven concerning the morning's topic and will also present some remarks of his own. A
question period will close the program.

“The Challenge of the Inner City” will be the topic in chapel on Feb. 6 of The Reverend Richard Gary
of St. Mary's Manhattanville Episcopal Church in New York City. His parish comprises West Harlem slums and project houses and
middle-class apartment areas. The congregation also includes persons affiliated with Union Theological Seminary and Columbia University.

The Rev. Mr. Gary’s ministry has been described in the following words: “One day he's in court with a young
‘hooker,’ the next he’s guiding a discussion group on Bonhoeffer in the better house apartments or lecturing at Union, and
the next he’s ministering to the needs of a man handcuffed to a hospital bed in the ‘slum’ Knickerbocker Hospital,
where he is also chaplain.”

In addition, The Rev. Mr. Gary is active in the civil rights movement. He organized all of New York’s Episcopal
Churches for last summer's Aug. 28 “March on Washington.” He has also worked in refugee work camps in Europe. A
coffee hour will follow his chapel talk, with a tea in the afternoon, and a program at 8:15 p.m. in
the Morrison Room.

Government Jobs Open For Summer

The North Carolina Center for Education in Politics announces a statewide competition for six Politics Internships for the summer of
1964. Each intern will be placed in the Washington office of a United States Senator or Congressman, or on the
staff of the North Carolina Democratic or Republican parties in Raleigh, or in the campaign organization of a North Carolina
gubernatorial candidate. A stipend of $500 will be awarded each intern. This grant is sufficient to cover normal expenses during
the 10-week internship period (approximately June 1 to Aug. 15). Interns in Washington will live in a student rooming house
selected by the Center. Those working in Raleigh will live in North Carolina State University dormitories. Additional information and application
forms may be obtained from Dr. W. P. Minter. Deadline for applicants is Jan. 25.

Only a possibility this fall, a Davidson-sponsored junior year abroad is now a reality. At their meeting last Dec. 10,
the faculty approved a plan presented by the Foreign Study Committee making it possible for a student to study in
either France or Germany during his junior year under a Davidson program. Informed sources said the approval was unanimous.

Thus far, 24 students have already made deposits to travel with Davidson’s Junior Year Abroad during the next school year.
Twelve of them will go to Germany, 12 to France. Students going overseas will leave probably in early September, since
the academic year in Europe does not begin until the next month. Through arrangements of the Experiment in International Living,
a nonprofit organization designed for the purpose of giving students all over the world foreign experiences, the students will live
for one month in private homes of families in France and Germany. During this time, they will take an intensive
course in either French or German, designed to give them better facility with the language they must speak for almost
a year.

After the month, students will begin courses at French and German universities. The university in Marburg, a town of about
46,000, has been selected in Germany; one of three universities in France will be selected for the group there.

A Davidson language professor will be with each group: Dr. T. O. Pinkerton will lead the group in Germany; Dr.
Francis Ghigo will go to France. The adopted foreign study plan states of the professor accompanying each group: “In addition
to being adviser to the students in the group, he will conduct a seminar in some literary study correlated with
lecture courses of the university, and will also meet each student individually at frequent intervals to conduct a continuing surveillance
of his work in other courses.

“The Davidson professor in residence will translate the student’s accomplishments in his studies in the foreign university into one of
the following terms for each course: pass with recommendation for acceptance of credit, pass without credit, and fail.”

If the professor recommends credit, then a student's credits from overseas will be entered on his record here just as
any other transfer credit. Work done abroad will not count on a student's numerical average. However, each Davidson department involved
in courses a student takes overseas may require the study of some American text along with foreign texts; and a
student may be examined on his work abroad either by a mailed examination, or after he returns for his senior
year in September. The emphasis is on the “may”; it is up to each individual department as to how it
wishes to handle students taking its courses abroad—it may require no examination at all.

Dr. J. O. Embry, chairman of the Foreign Study Committee, said that students would not be through with the program
until about mid-June. “I expect many of the students will stay on even longer to travel and use the excellent
opportunity they have to see Europe.”

While the students study at the foreign university, the plan states that they “will have no special courses set up
for Americans with the exception of the seminar meeting with the Davidson professor. They will live as native students and
will not have any special arrangements toHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

set them apart.” To qualify for the Davidson program, a student must have an overall average of at least 1.75
and at least a 2.0 in the language of the country where he wants to study. In addition, prospective students
must fill out applications and provide several recommendations from other than professors for the Experiment in International Living. Embry pointed
out that it is necessary to meet the approval of this organization as well as that of the college in
order to go abroad. The cost per student for the program for the year abroad will be $2,400. This is
opposed to the yearly fee of $1,600 paid for tuition, room, and board by members of this year’s Freshman Class.
“However, the fee is not so large when what it covers is considered,” said President D. G. Martin. “The $2,400
provides for an ocean voyage both ways, expenses during the homestay period, and tuition, board, and room for the entire
school year, including vacations. It does not include books, incidentals, and transportation costs during vacations.” Martin is very enthusiastic about
the program, and informed sources familiar with the adoption of the program report that despite some opposition expressed by certain
faculty and administration members when the plan was first proposed, he provided the positive leadership necessary to boost the plan
through the faculty. Instrumental in getting the plan adopted was Martin's assurance that he would find outside sources to help
meet expenses of the program, since student fees alone can by no means pay the way. “We are certain that
we will get a grant from a foundation to help cover costs not paid by individual students,” Martin said. He
cannot at this time name that foundation. Martin said that since two faculty members would go abroad with the students,
it would be necessary to hire additional professors, probably two. “However, I feel the plan is well worth that,” said
Martin. “The benefits that the faculty members that go abroad will receive have perhaps been overlooked, but I think they
help make the program very worthwhile for us to have.” Despite the fact Davidson now has a plan for a
junior year abroad, students may continue to enroll in other Junior Year Abroad programs under the existing regulations for them.
Only three students are overseas with other programs this year.

HOW TO SUCCEED IN BASKETBALL WITHOUT REALLY TRYING—Unfortunately most opponents have not been as helpful as West Virginia’s Don Weir
(10) who boosts Davidson’s Dan Davidson (22) up for a quick two points. Instead of thanks, a foul was called.

Big News On Campus: ’Cats Are IN The News
BY TOM LOFLIN

The biggest news of the week on the campus seems to be the fact that Sports Illustrated, which hit the
stands today, has a good spread on Davidson’s basketball Wildcats. The biggest news of the entire year may well be
the ‘Cats. But Taylor Blackwell’s publicity office is definitely not the place to go if speedy information about the nation’s
fifth-ranked basketball team is desired. I walked in Monday to see how the pro publicizers were coming with the Davidson
image. I don't know why, but Blackwell wasn’t on the phone. The first five minutes I spent with him must
have been about the only time his phone-answering left arm got a rest that morning. In those few minutes, he
did manage to relate the story of the Sports Illustrated article to me. Bob Ottom and photographer Walter Ioss flew
down here on tickets bought by the magazine to try to find out why a small Christian school has stopped
turning its other cheek in basketball. They spent all day last Friday and Saturday looking into many different phases of
the school. “Ottom talked with the president and the Admissions Office,” Blackwell told me, “and he even made an in-state
recruiting trip with Coach Driesell. I don't believe the two visitors slept for two days, and if they don't have
a good story, then they must be more disappointed than anybody.” Blackwell revealed that the suspicious “Lefty” Driesell at first
thought the two were West Virginia plants, and he would not allow them to see his secret scrimmage in preparation
for the big game. “I had to wire New York to find out that they were O.K.,” smiled Blackwell, “and
then Lefty really seemed to take to them. He was really excited about the publicity they can give the school.”
But best of all is the fact that the school is now being considered by both Life and the Saturday
Evening Post for stories. “They approached us, we didn't ask them,” Blackwell said almost fearfully, “and we certainly can't yell
too loud to them from down here. We'll just wait to see what happens.” It was about then that Blackwell’s
phone forgot its manners and interrupted us almost constantly for almost an hour. First it was some sports writer in
Norfolk wanting to know the team statistics for the year. And they still don't let people make calls to little
Davidson for nothing. Belle Banks of the local Mecklenburg Gazette called for a sports story. Thanks to the ’Cats, the
little Davidson weekly is now getting subscriptions from as far west as Texas and Arizona. Sandwiched between the phone rings,
I managed to wring out a few more facts before I left in disgust: Blackwell has to dig up two
basketball pictures to be used on the covers of The State magazine and Coach and Athlete. His office already this
school year has had double the requests for pictures as it had last year. “We've already overrun our budget,” Blackwell
worried. “Thank goodness President Martin is so understanding of the situation.” The U.N.C. Sports Network helped to make the Charlotte
Invitational basketball tournament the big success it was by feeding all of the games to its member stations. And WBT,
one of the strongest radio voices on the east coast, is carrying all of Davidson's home games. Monday morning, Bill
Currie of WSOC-TV, Charlotte, cut a tape interviewing the team that will also be shown on WRAL, Raleigh. Blackwell is
very hopeful that it will be good enough to be shown by both ABC and NBC. Blackwell’s office has been
so busy that it did not even close on Christmas Day. When we make NUMBER ONE, Blackwell and his staff
may even have to stay up nights.

Vendors To Be Replaced

Drink vending machines are to be replaced in the dorms by new vendors on a trial basis, Supervisor of Dormitories
Mrs. J. B. Moore announced Thursday. The machines were removed over a month ago due to abuse by the students.
The machines malfunctioned as the result of a few students trying to get a free drink from the machines. The
vending machines with self-contained ice makers are activated as the coin trips an activator switch on its fall into the
coin box. The activator switch is very delicate: the wire that extends across the path of the coin has less
strength than a bobby pin. Students desiring to trip the switch inserted a piece of coat hanger wire into the
coin slots and depressed the wire, Mrs. Moore said. They got a free drink; the next man just lost his
money. In touching the wire it is almost impossible not to bend it out of shape. After the wire has
been bent, coins will go into the box but will not activate the machine. Mrs. Moore stated that students seemed
to ignore all warnings that the machines were out of order. One student took down the out of order sign
that she had put on the machine in Belk, put his dime in and “then began kicking the machine until
he hurt his toe.” The new machines will be in before exams, and will stay—provided, as Mrs. Moore says, that
“these are taken real good care of.” Official out-of-order signs are to be made for the machines and will be
placed on the machines as soon as it is known. Once a machine is declared out of order students are
requested to leave it alone. Mrs. Moore relates that once when the coin slots were stuffed by the salesman because
that machine was out of order, a student “pulled the stuffing out to put a dime in.” A vending machine
representative will be appointed for the school from the student body. Anyone who loses money in a machine can go
to him to claim a refund. Mrs. Moore hopes to have the representative on the first floor of Belk. Anyone
interested in the job should see her. His name will be posted on bulletin boards as soon as he is
appointed. Machines were in Belk and Cannon prior to being taken out. These will be replaced and possibly one will
be installed in Richardson, according to Mrs. Moore.

---

NUMBER FOURTEEN

And on Weir at the game last Saturday in the Charlotte Coliseum in which the fifth-ranked Wildcats picked up their
tenth consecutive win by downing the Mountaineers 93-82. (Staff photo by McCutchen)
