CHRISTIANS RESPOND TO EVANGELISTIC ATHEIST (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. LII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1964 NUMBER SIXTEEN

BEAT DOOK (See Page Three)

(Staff Photo by Smith)

SLATER SYSTEM KITCHEN SCENE

Item 15: “standard watertight garbage cans” ??

Slater Service Serves Gross Health Violations

BY BILL FOSTER AND TOM LOFLIN

Every year the freshmen greet their first semester at Davidson with howls of anguish over the food served in the Student Union’s cafeteria by the Slater System. Freshmen are required by the college to eat for the first semester with Slater, but since most of them pledge fraternities and begin to eat at the houses the second semester, their cries soon are muffled by mouths stuffed with fraternity food.

Do the freshmen really have a complaint, at least as far as sanitation in the college cafeteria is concerned? Tuesday night at about 10 p.m., after the Richmond ball game, THE DAVIDSONIAN attempted to find out by an investigation of the Slater kitchen. Paul Black, the Slater snack bar manager, halted the investigation after about ten minutes by demanding that reporters and photographer leave the kitchen.

“You haven't got any business back here,” he declared angrily. When reminded that the public had the right to inspect kitchens of restaurants in this state, he said, “Come back when somebody is working back here. You haven't got any business back here when no one is around.” Black was himself ‘around’ in the kitchen at the time, fixing short orders.

But before Black halted the inspection, reporters had managed to inspect extensively: In a drawer at the end of a serving counter dead bugs were found collecting. A big roach crawled over a vegetable peeler in the kitchen before the eyes of reporters. The device obviously had not been cleaned for some time: a residue of caked food had collected in it. Two trays of cake had been left out overnight. The cake was completely exposed. Section 6, Item 16 E2 of Laws, Rules, and Regulations Governing the Sanitation of Restaurants and Other Foodhandling Establishments in North Carolina states that “If open dishes and pans containing food are stacked, food shall be protected with wax paper or foil.”

Garbage cans both inside the kitchen and outside the building were not covered. This is a violation of Section 6, Item 15 of the codes: “Garbage shall be collected and stored in standard watertight garbage cans provided with tight fitting lids so as to exclude flies, rats, and animals.” Silverware had been left out overnight on the serving line in violation of Section 6, Item 14 of the code. A large crack was found in the floor of the kitchen and was full of mud and slime. This is a violation of Section 6, Item 1 of the code. Reporters saw an individual being served by Black in the kitchen. Food establishments which serve customers in the kitchen violate Section 6, Item 16 E2 of the code. Back in the storeroom, a large can of shortening was left uncovered in violation of Section 6, Item 12 of the code.

Despite the fact that reporters could find evidence of flagrant violations of rules in about ten minutes of investigation, the cafeteria received an A rating during its last food inspection in November.

THE DAVIDSONIAN has received many complaints from freshmen who were required by the administration to eat their meals in the Union cafeteria during their first semester here. Some of these are as follows: One found a dead roach under a piece of cake he had been served, and an upperclassman, who used to eat in the cafeteria of his own free will, found a bug in his salad. Another freshman saw a roach crawling along the serving counter. A server also saw the bug and exclaimed, “Look, there goes a roach!” A cook answered her, “Is that the first roach you have ever seen?” A freshman reports that he has seen ants crawling over tables in the cafeteria on many occasions, and that he found some chewing gum stuck to his coffee cup. Another first-year man told THE DAVIDSONIAN that he could not remember the time he had ever gotten Trustees Review State Oath Report Due From Education Committee

The 48 Davidson trustees will gather this Wednesday for the first of their two 1964 meetings. Probably the most important consideration will be President D. Grier Martin’s report on the state of the college. In this summary, which includes information from reports submitted to him by all college departments and from his own sources and observations, President Martin recommends whatever measures he thinks necessary for the college.

Of those coming or going have not been released as of yet. It is known, however, that Drs. Earl MacCormac, T. O. Pinkerton and Max E. Polley will not serve on the faculty next year. Reports are to be given by the four major trustee committees: education, building and grounds, finance, religious and social life, church and alumni relationships. The three-man education committee has been given the problem of the faculty vow and has worked extensively with the faculty on this question. They will meet Tuesday and probably will make recommendations to the general trustee meeting Wednesday.

Hugh M. Cannon Due Here Monday

Hugh M. Cannon, chairman of the Department of Administration of the State of North Carolina, will be on campus next Monday for speeches and conferences with students.

Also to be discussed by the trustees will be a new statement of purpose of Davidson College, in the making for two years by a joint faculty-trustee committee. This statement already has been approved with no dissenting votes by the faculty this fall. A native of Lancaster, S. C., Cannon was graduated from Davidson in 1953 where he received a Rhodes scholarship for study in England. While at Davidson he was president of the YMCA, and of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternities, and was selected for Who's Who In American Colleges and Universities.

A three-page report on the infamous National Review survey has been sent to the trustees by President Martin. This matter may also come up for discussion. The trustees meet on Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and as long as necessary after lunch. Tyler Post, deputy assistant secretary of the Army and a Davidson alumnus, will address the group at lunch.

He will speak at a chapel program Monday on the general topic of politics, after which he will talk informally at a coffee hour in the College Union. The board chairman, Dr. J. After having lunch at the Phi Of College This Week REPLACES CANTEEN

Basketball New

BY DAVID COFFEY

Ramsburgh hopes the YMCA An expanded athletic and Community Service project will scouting program geared to provide an ample opportunity the needs of Davidson’s for all interested Davidson students to become acquainted with the youth of the town and to be of some assistance in their physical and mental growth.

Youth is this year’s YMCA Community Service project. Last semester, as in past years, the YMCA operated a Teen Canteen on Friday and Saturday nights at Davidson's Colored Presbyterian Church. Negro boys attending the Canteen are taught to play basketball, horseshoes, volleyball, checkers and other games. Last year, swimming instruction was also offered. Steve Ramsburgh, YMCA Community Service Chairman, hopes to re-organize the Canteen program this semester, as soon as final permission is granted the YMCA to use the gym of the Negro elementary school. Ramsburgh intends to organize an expanded basketball program for junior high and high school boys to replace the old Canteen program on Friday nights. He would also like to institute a men's basketball league which would play on Monday and Wednesday evenings and be open to all those too old for the Canteen program.

Active in the Canteen program are Davidson students Lewis Shelley, Marc Copelan and Jim Barnes. Many additional students have expressed an interest in assisting with the expanded basketball programs. Study halls for the high school students opened in Huntersville.

Davidson Students Effect Negro Tutorial

BY DUNCAN D. NEWCOMER

“It’s you against your potential,” stated Dr. William Lytle, to aid the Negro students to develop their potential so that they will be capable of competing equally once their legal and social equality is won.

The program, sponsored by the Davidson YMCA, will begin Monday night with six Davidson students meeting with 12 Lytle students. Teaching in basic reading and mathematical skills will be the major effort of the tutors. Davidson students Lewis Shelley, Marc Copelan and Jim Barnes. Many additional students have expressed an interest in assisting with the expanded basketball programs. Study halls for the high school students opened in Huntersville. The first Davidson students to participate in this stage of the program are Jim Bradley, Paxton Wray, David Pfohl, Rufus Hallmark, Reese Coppage and Hank Taylor. Later in the spring, the Negro student.He was speaking to the 25 or so Davidson students who are piloting a tutorial program for Negro students from Torrence Lytle High School in Huntersville. His statement presented the challenge of the project.

The tutors for the preliminary program were given the silverware that “I would call really clean." One evening a junior walked into the Union and bought a package of crackers from the Slater snack bar. He opened them and ate two. Then he looked at the bottom of the package. “To my amazement and almost my sickness, I discovered that a rat had bitten through the cellophane of the pack and had nibbled the last cracker. I might have eaten the thing had I not just happened to see where the rat had taken a bite!"

The former night patrolman at Davidson, “Ranger” Smith, has said on several occasions that he has seen rats about the Union. Of course, that is no evidence that they at times nibble the food left out unprotected at night. The fact that flies are not controlled by the Slater System in the college cafeteria is no secret to anyone who has ever walked in the dining area for a snack or a meal during the season for those insects. Appearances are that roaches and rats are not controlled either. The state code, and common sense, demands control of such dangerous pests.

Plans have now been drawn to convert the dining area downstairs in the Union into a larger and more convenient facility for everyone. The area vacated by the student store and game room will allow the installation of a new snack bar and the addition of several private dining rooms. But expansion is a luxury that will not cure the sanitation problem now found in the kitchen supported by the college and operated by Slater. The problems of the kitchen, according to a statement made to a reporter by Dean Richard C. Burts last semester, “have been known to us (the college officials) for about ten years.” However, the administration will more than likely continue to require all summer school students and first semester freshmen to eat with Slater.

MacDowell Richards, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, presides during the day. President Martin attends the sessions as do Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston and Business Manager R. A. Currie in order to make reports. Any faculty members may be present at the board's meetings, at his own desire to present a proposal or at the request of the board. A final area of discussion is the departure and hiring of faculty members. Both of these are contingent on the votes of the board, and thus the names.

Gamma Delta house, he will appear at an open meeting of Dr. W. P. Minter’s Political Science 52 class at 1:40. From 3-5 p.m. he will discuss job opportunities in state governments with interested students in the Union Lounge. Cannon's job is often called the “second most powerful position” in North Carolina government. He is not an elected official. He will speak to an organizational meeting of the Davidson Young Democrats Club at 5 p.m., which will conclude his day on campus.

The YMCA will resume its Little League and Pony League baseball programs. During the summer months, several students will coach a Negro baseball team and, next fall, there will again be a Pop Warner Football League team in Davidson, operated by the YMCA. Also under the auspices of the YMCA, Skip Motley, Woody Coleman, and Alex Bernhardt operate a Cub Scout and Boy Scout program for local youth. The scout groups meet in the basement of Belk Dormitory every Thursday afternoon.

Council Eyes Book Theft, May Try To Oust Wildcat
BY RON SNOW

The fate of the Davidson wildcat will be decided before long. Many feel that it is too smelly, too expensive, and suffers from a lack of wildcat companionship. As a representative of the Student Council, John Spratt will discuss the problem with head cheerleader Dan King.

Along a more serious vein, the Student Council in its Monday night meeting decided that definite action must be taken on those who evade library fines by returning the books to the shelves themselves and to those that take books without checking them out. This problem has become worse with books required by large numbers of people. John Spratt, reporting on his meeting with the Student-Faculty Conference Committee, informed the Student Council that next year, because of the relatively low tuition, an additional $15 per hour would be charged to all upperclassmen taking more than 16 semester hours, with the exclusion of ROTC. This change will be incorporated on the pink cards next year. Also announced was the Executive Committee's consideration of a new campusing policy.

The Student Council was informed of the fact that the Academic Scheduling Committee had worked a reading period into the future schedule. Beginning with the 1965-66 school year, there will be a one-day reading period between the last day of classes and the exam period. The motion to accept this proposal was passed by the council unanimously. After consulting earlier with the Freshman Council, the Student Council decided to take a poll of the freshmen concerning likes and dislikes of the freshmen regulations for use in possible revision of the regulations.

Dave Hardeman announced that the Davidson Civil Rights Committee has received 22 letters from area schools on the subject of stands on the civil rights issues. Tommy Heffner informed the Student Council of a study of the council being made by the school as part of an overall study program. Next week the Student Council will approve the elected members to the Elections Board and appoint their own representative. The 17 members will consist of a representative from each of the 12 fraternities, four Independents, and one Student Council member who will serve as chairman of the group.

Burwell from Charlie. Medicare Foe Coming
B. Hight, Jr., associate professor of education and head of the college guidance department, and Davidson last week under another branch of the tutorial program. At a meeting last week with Negro high school officials, the Davidson tutors were told that almost all of these students have difficulty reading, grasping word problems, understanding vocabulary, and doing formal proofs in mathematics. Concluding his remarks to the tutors, Dr. Hight, who has had experience in public education in North Carolina before coming to Davidson and has worked closely with Torrence-Lytle High School in the past, said, “Now you are meeting young Negro students on a new level. Don’t try to be his buddy; he’s got plenty. Don’t try to be his philosopher; he's got one. Just begin teaching where he is. You may start a motor that never has had a chance to run."

Edward R. Annis, MD, president of the World Medical Association and former president of the American Medical Association, will be on the Davidson campus Feb. 19-20 for several speaking engagements before the student body. Annis, 50, is from Miami where he has practiced surgery for the past 25 years. As president of the world group which includes more than 700,000 physicians from 97 foreign countries, he has traveled to 20 speeches per week, averaging close to 750,000 miles a year. He has appeared on national television (“Meet The Press,” “Face The Nation”) opposing certain Senators on the issue of Medicare and government-sponsored medical plans.

At 8:15 Wednesday evening, Dr. Annis will speak at an open meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-med society, in the Morrison Room of the Union. At 10:20 Thursday morning, he will speak on any topic he chooses in the area. He will speak on the subject of “Medicare” at chapel. He will talk in the coffee hour in the Union after.

V FOR VICTORY — At least that’s how it looked last Tuesday in the Davidson stands as the Wildcat basketball team victimized Richmond 95-67. How did the V come about? Those are cheerleader Purk Jurkeson’s legs as he is triumphantly ‘passed around’ by the spectators. (Staff Photo by Smith)