PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN . FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1964

Aspirants Take Stands on Campaign Platform

Tues., Mar. 17—Filing for Freshman Advisor. Filing for cheerleader positions with Head Cheerleader.
Wed., Mar. 18—Filing for Freshman Advisor. Filing for cheerleader positions with Head Cheerleader.
Thurs., Mar. 19—Speeches in Assembly by the four candidates for the Presidency of the Student Body. Voting for Student Body
Officers (except President) and Honor Court.
Fri., Mar. 20—Presidential election plus other Student Body and Honor Court runoffs.
Mon., Mar. 23—Final Student Body Officers and Honor Court runoffs, if necessary.
Tues., Mar. 24—Filing for Student Council Offices except candidate for Freshman Advisor.
Wed., Mar. 25—Filing for Student Council Offices except candidate for Freshman Advisor.
Thurs., Mar. 26—Speeches by YMCA Presidential candidates. Voting for officers of YMCA, Freshman Advisor, publication editors, and cheerleaders.
Fri., Mar. 27—Final Freshman Advisor and cheerleaders runoffs, if necessary.
Tues., April 7—Voting for Student Council Offices.
Wed., April 8—Student Council Offices runoffs, if necessary.
Thurs., April 9—Student Council Offices runoffs, if necessary.

What are the three main planks of your platform? (Specifically, not just to better student-faculty relationships or work for a
healthier school spirit.)

BOSTON
1. Open elections allowing for organizational support and solidarity of the student body at large and allowing vote swapping.
2. Election of NSA representative by student body.
3. A determined effort to gain permission for the student body president to attend Davidson College Trustee meetings in order
to present student opinion.

JACKSON
1. The establishment of the Student Council as the primary coordinating body on this campus, through a Presidential Coordinating Committee
set up to ensure efficient communication and functioning.
2. Further elections revisions.
3. The council should make a complete re-evaluation of its association with NSA and its effect on this campus. The
results of this re-evaluation should be presented to the student body, and the student body allowed to assess the value
of continued affiliation with NSA.

FERGUSON
1. At the present time abolition of chapel is highly improbable, no matter how much the student body wants it.
Therefore, the existing chapel periods should be used for the best advantage and making a concerted effort to obtain top-notch
speakers in the fields the students prefer.
2. Further elections revisions.
3. The council should make a complete re-evaluation of its association with NSA and its effect on this campus. The
results of this re-evaluation should be presented to the student body, and the student body allowed to assess the value
of continued affiliation with NSA.

CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL Eyes Marksman (William Tell) Forrester

Capt. Campbell Finds No Time Like Present

"You're on your own time." Apparently Davidson graduate Capt. Donald M. Campbell interprets this military cliche as "My time is
not my own," but he says it with a grin. Since returning to Davidson as MS II instructor, Campbell has
assumed extra-curricular responsibility far beyond the call of duty. Coaching both rifle and football combined with unfaltering support of all
Wildcat athletics comprise but some of the captain's contributions to the campus. Whenever possible he assists the cadet special forces
contingent, and in addition, is an active member of the local Lions’ Club.

As a platoon leader and then assistant S3 at battalion level, he served 3½ years in Germany with the 2nd
Armored Division. Campbell returned to the U.S. just prior to the "Wall Crisis." Commenting on the improvements evident in ROTC
since he graduated, Campbell stated, "The 300 percent increase in number of corps seniors speaks for itself." He’s particularly impressed
with the flight program and the special forces maneuvers as contributions to the improvement.

Teaching MS II's requires four hours, Monday through Thursday, with most afternoons plus Friday devoted to paperwork and forms. No
small part of his "free time" during the day is occupied with other people’s problems—cadets searching for a missing roster
or DAVIDSONIAN photographers wanting rifle team pictures. The captain's patience, interest in people, and his enthusiasm for the military appear
to effectively counter what one might call "harassing the troops."

STUDENTS MARCH
(Continued From Page One)

The purpose of the march would be to show the entire nation that there are some white people in the
South, as well as Negroes, who are for the civil rights legislation. "The only reason that we are petitioning President
Johnson is because the people in the country come from all over. He is a point around which we can
all unite."

Polley said that he understood the Charlotte mayor's concern about the march, but he said that he expected no violence.
"The mayor has offered police protection, and I'm positive no violence will occur. The march should not set race relations
back in Charlotte; it is not aimed at Charlotte. We are not trying to desegregate any facility or anything like
that."

Howell explained that the march from Davidson to Charlotte had been called off "because of the danger of violence on
the road and the fact that any incidents there might jeopardize the main march in Charlotte. We felt that anything
that might jeopardize the main march should be compromised. We did not cancel the walk to Charlotte because of any
pressure; I doubt if anyone in Charlotte knew about that aspect of our demonstration."

Mayor Brookshire explained why he feared the march: "As you know, Charlotte has been a leader in race relations in
the South. If there happened to be an incident, it would set our cause back here. I can’t guarantee them
complete safety; but if they insist on marching, we'll provide safety for them as best we can."

Brookshire then seized on what he apparently felt was his last chance to halt the march by asking a DAVIDSONIAN
reporter to try to influence Howell to accept Martin’s alternate plan. "Do you have any influence with Joe Howell?" he
asked. "If so, I would like for you to try and reason with him and see if the plan his
president suggested won't appeal to him."

The mayor said that he could ensure full radio and TV coverage if Martin's plan is followed because, "I have
many friends with the Charlotte news media." He admitted the press would be sure to cover hundreds of people marching
through Charlotte’s streets in the original plan, however.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

fields | "could seek to better utilize the attempt to become a candidate. I’m through their closer connection opportunities offered
by the or defeated in his chosen branch: ganization. HEFFNER This choice of speakers could be NSA. Dr. Buttrick Plans
Series Of Five Lectures Here Dr. George A. Buttrick will deliver five lectures on Christian Faith and Student Conference on
Existen- BY BILL FOSTER This was a change over-which: ledge of the workings of their this year’s Council spent many
representative government. 1. Continued affiliation with: tours, only to have the proposal miss passage by the margin of a: temporary
Ethics as this year’s second Reynold's Lecturer Sunday through Wednes- day of next week. Dr. Buttrick, past Otis Lec. Church
in New York City. turer here at Davidson, brings a wide variety of experience in the field on which he
will lec- ture. He was Plummer Profes- sor of Christian Morals at Har- vard University and served as preacher to
the University. Prior to his work at Harvard he was for 28 years pastor of the Madison Ave. Presbyterian protection
of the marchers. “We have no jurisdiction in this mat- ter,” he said. Hawkins emphasized that he has no leadership
in the march, other than the making of ar- rangements for protection. “This march has been entirely organ- ized on
the part of the college students involved. I will march with them, but that is about all that I will
do in this area. I want to say that Saturday will be a good day for Davidson. It will put
you in line with other colleges that have been outstrip- ping you in the area of race re- lations.” Cunningham
told THE DAV- IDSONIAN that he was in favor of the objectives of the march- ers, but not their way
of carry- ing them out. “I am for the Civil Rights Bill," he said. “But I Later he said, “I
didn’t feel free to talk with Joe myself. I was afraid that he might feel that I was meddling. But
if you can persuade him to call me and talk with me, I would be most happy.” He gave this
reason for using Martin as a go-between in his communica- tion with the rights group. Howell did call Brookshire the
next day. He said that he told the mayor, “‘I think since you have made such fine progress in Charlotte,
the march should be another step forward in this area for race relations.’” A spokesman for the Charlotte Police Dept.
said that the march was perfectly legal. “We will have police with them all the way, but we're not expecting
any trouble. This is supposed to be a peaceful march.” Thus the professionals on keeping the peace seem to agree
with Polley that there will be no trouble over the march. The police said that Dr. R. D. Hawkins, a
local Negro civil rights leader, had made all arrangements with them. Hawkins, when contacted, said, “I have made all the
arrange- ments for these kids. I made them due to the fact that this is my city, and I wanted
to be courteous. I would do the same for any group that wanted to demonstrate in Charlotte. My prime concern
is to cut down any chance of violence.” PRIZES: tape Recorder raph WHO WINS: Alpine or Paxton. Hawkins said that
he had con- tacted the FBI, as well as the RULES: police, to provide protection for the marchers. An FBI
spokes- man denied that his agency would take an official role in the closing time. Charlotte, N. C. His Vespers
sermon will per- tain to “The Knowledge of God,” to be followed by his Monday chapel appearance on “What Is
Existentialism?” “Marxism and the Christian Faith” will be the subject of Tuesday's chapel. Each of these addresses will be follow-
ed by the customary coffee feel that it is a little late now for demonstrations. I would like to see
us roll up our sleeves and accomplish some constructive work in the area of rights.” Cunningham praised Martin for his
handling of the situation here at Davidson. “I don't think he should exert any pressure since the march is not
any vio- lation of the college’s laws. I certainly have not attempted to influence the president to act in any
way on this matter. I did talk with him, and he made it clear how he felt.” Cunningham said that
march would probably set race how: Wednesday morning in a vol- untary chapel period to be con- ducted in the
Morrison Room, Dr. Buttrick will take “A New Look at Science and Religion.” The coffee hour will be combined with
the lecture. Wednesday evening Dr. But- trick will complete his lectures with an address on “The Biblical View of Man.”
Details will be announced concerning time and place. Throughout his stay Dr. But- trick will be eating at various fraternity
houses on the court for informal discussions with students. Dr. Buttrick served as edi- tor-in-chief of the Interpre- ter’s Bible,
considered by many scholars the best sum- mary of modern biblical scholarship available. Just re- cently he fulfilled the same
position with The Interpreter’s Dictionary of the Bible. Among the many books he has published are Prayer, Faith and Education,
So We Believe, So We Pray, Sermons Preached in a University Church, and Christ relations. in Charlotte back only if
there were violence along with it. “If there is violence, I'm sure that people who are against in- tegration would
find themselves vindicated.” IN THE COLLEGE BRAND ROUND-UP 1ST PRIZE WEBCOR Stereophonic High Fidelity 2ND PRIZE WEBCOR Stereo High Fidelity
Phono- Prizes will be awarded to any recognized Group or individual submitting the largest number of empty packages of Marlboro,
Parliament, Philip Morris, Contest open to qualified students only. Empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alpine or Paxton must
be sub- mitted in order to qualify. Closing date, time and location will be an- nounced in your newspaper. No
entries will be acceptable after official Get on the BRANDWAGON ... it's lots of fun! Refreshment anyone? Game goes better
refreshed. Coca-Cola! With its lively lift, big bold taste, never too sweet ... refreshes best. Opens Here. pher: Albert Camus
will be pre- sented. Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by: Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord Concord, North
Carolina “Batten down” a “button down” shirt by GANT with and more complete know- Philosophy Conclave The Davidson Philosophy De-
partment is sponsoring its first ualism beginning tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. in the Cun- ningham Fine Arts Building. Participating
will be small groups of students from UNC, Women's College, Queens Col- lege and Davidson. Duke, origi- nally slated to
come, was forced to cancel its two delegates. Registration will be conducted from 9:30 a.m. preceding the first session. At
this time, a paper on Existentialist philoso- phy by Bill Ferris, followed by a critical analysis of the paper by
Mike Harrington of Davidson and Charles Watson of UNC. At noon the second ses- sion will convene with a panel
discussion on the topic “Can Existentialism Provide a Basis for an Ethic?” After a break for lunch at 12:30, Phil
Lewis of Davidson will present a paper on Merleau- Ponty. Criticism will be conduct- ed by George Williams of David-
son and Thomas Southall of UNC. A break for coffee in the Art Studio will be followed by the final
session, in which another student panel will discuss “Exis- tentialism: Protest or Philoso- phy?” The conference will close with dinner
at 6 p.m. and you'll find a new world of “shirt pleasure” in these new TRUE Ivy Styled Gant Shirts.
Gant for dress ... button-down, batiste oxford, short sleeve in colors of blue, maize, linen, white, solid tones. Stripes 6.95.
Gant for sports ... button-down short sleeve sport shirts in bold club stripes, windowpane plaids and table-cloth checks. 6.95 to
8.95 Corbin Slacks 14.95 to 19.95 DOWN TOWN 3RD. FLOOR NATURAL SHOULDER SHOP and PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER STORE park
directly behind store on West 4th St. and ask for free parking at Tate-Brown’s 126 S. Tryon St. DOWNTOWN 126
S. TRYON ST. PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER Park Road Store Open Mon., Thurs. & Fri. 'Til 9 p.m. TATE-BROWN'S CHARLOTTE
DOWNTOWN 126 S. TRYON ST. PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER Use Your Charge Account
