MARTIN BLASTS GREEKS AGAIN (See Page Three) VOL. LIV.

Dean Polls Students On Booze

Eighty-six percent of the student body favors enforcement of a systematic modification of the present campus drinking rules, according to
a survey taken by the Dean of Students Office. The survey, which had a response from 139 of the 198
students polled, sought reliable information on student opinion, according to Robert Jones, assistant dean of students. This survey, Jones said,
is more accurate than an earlier one administered by the Student Council at the fraternity houses, because it has a
more random sample.

“The basic objection of students to the drinking rule of the student body regulations," Jones commented, as he interpreted the
statistics and additional student comments, “was the nature of enforcement. The feeling was that enforcement has been arbitrary in the
past.” Lax enforcement, Jones continued, “has in reality encouraged the possession of alcohol on campus and this was generally known
among the student body.” He also indicated that the students would be ‘more comfortable’ if the rules and common practice
were reconciled.

Response to the questionnaire came from 27 seniors, 30 juniors, 39 sophomores, 42 freshmen, and one “other” student. Fraternity membership
of the sample totaled 78 percent. Out of an average of 62 percent of students drinking, 45 percent of freshmen,
65 percent of sophomores, 70 percent of juniors, and 74 percent of seniors indicated that they drink. Fifty percent had
drunk before entering Davidson. While 68 percent did not oppose drinking or possession of alcohol on campus, 72 percent opposed
the drinking or possession of alcoholic liquors by students in the dorms. Only 19 percent opposed the use of alcohol
by Davidson students “as a matter of principle.” Although 48 percent did not favor the possession or use of alcohol
in the fraternity houses, 72 percent opposed a completely “dry” campus. Fifty-four percent admitted that their parents, 51 percent of
whom drink, favored a completely “dry” campus, in their opinion.

Regarding enforcement of the drinking rules, 57 percent felt the Student Council and Honor Court have “the main responsibility for
enforcing the student regulations.” However, 74 percent preferred that “the student body not have regulations on drinking and leave enforcement
of college policy up to the faculty and administration.”

DIBBLE SACKETT DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Trunk Rule Change Proposed By Students

Regulations on the search of automobiles were modified by the faculty Tuesday after several weeks of study on the campus
drinking problem. The new rule, which replaces item 12 of the faculty regulations on the use of motor vehicles, states
in part that “trunks of vehicles on campus will not be searched nor jurisdiction claimed without prior authorization for the
search of a specified vehicle by the Honor Court, the Student Council, or the Executive Committee of the Faculty.”

Acting to bring the student body regulations into agreement with the revised faculty stand, the student council on Wednesday night
voted to propose to the student body an amendment to the Student Body Constitution. The proposed amendment is the same
as the new rule the faculty passed on Tuesday, except that the words, “for a specified violation,” are inserted after
the phrase, “search of a specified vehicle,” and before the phrase, “by the Honor Court... .”

The council also passed a declaration of policy which emphasized its intention to “earnestly support and enforce the provisions of
Section 2, Article VIII of the Student Body Constitution.” Student Body President Will Jackson explained that the policy declaration “is
in line with the Student Council's belief that the student body does not want to allow liquor in the dormitories
or the fraternity houses, or drinking anywhere on the campus itself. We are willing to actively enforce a drinking rule
with respect to these areas where it is—and should be—both realistic and enforceable.”

Commenting on the revision of the faculty regulations, President D. Grier Martin stated, “It is my belief that (the jurisdiction
of the new rule) will not be used to search for alcohol in trunks of cars, but this is the
only exemption from search on campus. It is not intended that it will be used indiscriminately to check on whatever
a student has in his trunk,” explained Martin, “but this prevents it from being impossible for the three bodies named
in the rule, to examine trunks of cars in situations which are serious or dangerous to the college community.”

The actions by the faculty and the council came following discussions of the drinking issue which began in October. A
petition for changes in the drinking regulations was presented to the council then after an incident involving these regulations, and
thereafter the council worked actively to...

Committee Appointed For Fraternity Study

By JAMIE BRYANT Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Student Council committee drawn up to study the fraternity system as well as the total social life at Davidson
is “not stacked for the status quo,” and will approach the matter with an open mind and a constructive attitude,
according to Student Body President Will Jackson. The inclusion of Bob Young, Bob Jones, and Will Terry on the committee
will not necessarily be a negative influence in the committee’s report. The committee is composed of Jackson, as chairman; Rick
Von Unwerth, Bill Council, Ed Haselden, and Art Ross with fraternity affiliations; Pat Fisher and Rufus Hallmark for the Independents;
Young, Jones, and Terry representing the faculty and administration.

At its first meeting Thursday, deferred rush, 100 percent bidding, and the school’s responsibility to the Independents with regard to
social facilities on campus were specific subjects assigned to the committee's three subcommittees. The subcommittees will report back to the
entire committee which will then submit its final report to the Student Council. The Council will then make recommendations to
the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life.

The subcommittees will compile their information through correspondence with other schools—including Southwestern, Sewanee, Florida Presbyterian, Amherst, and Princeton—as well as
through the NSA Student Government Information Service and personal contacts. The committee's initial meeting on Thursday was an organizational meeting,
to make plans for and to outline objectives of the study which must meet a March 1 deadline. The study
will have the same effect as any regular committee report, and will be available for reference. Council will limit its
actions to making recommendations to the faculty, Jackson said. The study is an evaluation of the social life at Davidson
attempted on a broad scale to point out deficiencies and possible corrective action. The composition of the committee itself is
planned to afford an unbiased, open-minded appraisal.

NSA Representatives Review Recent Meeting

“Since the stuff was run by larger schools, very little of the program was really relevant at Davidson,” began Bill
Council as he presented his report on the NSA regional to the Student Council Monday night. Council's fellow delegate, Chuck
Matthews, expressed a similar opinion, remarking that the material presented at various seminars during the convention would “be of more
help to the Davidson YMCA than the student government.”

When asked after their report if they could point to any particular benefits that Davidson might derive from such a
meeting, Matthews pointed to the NSA’s reduced-rate student travel program, remarking that several “good deals” were available to all students
through this program. He said that under this plan a student might fly to Europe for as little as $250,
or stay in any Hilton Hotel in the country for $4 a night.

In response to the same question, Council observed that “one can really get a lot out of such a meeting,
through associations with other delegates and such.” He termed it a “very valuable experience.”

During his report, Matthews told of a motion made by NC State delegates which suggested the removal of a reference
to God found in the preamble of the new constitution. “The motion was defeated 17 to four,” he continued, “those
four votes coming from the State delegates. Upon defeat of their motion, the State delegates walked out of the meeting.”

In an amusing climax to the meeting, David Walker moved that the council support the regional NSA's vote to keep
“God” in the preamble of their constitution. Johnny Gresham seconded the motion. After a brief discussion, the council defeated the
proposal supporting God with only two assenting votes.

In other business, Bill Council reported that Dr. Tom Scott, athletic director at Davidson, “was surprisingly receptive to the idea
of keeping the gym open of evenings for student use.” In a report to the Student Council on his efforts
to secure permission for this plan, Council said that the gym would be open every evening possible for four and
one-half hours for all sports except swimming. Scott said that swimming would be available too, if enough interest was shown
to warrant the hiring of a lifeguard.

An effort to secure discounts for Davidson students at several Charlotte clothing stores and restaurants has “not been too successful
so far,” according to David Meschan. In his report to the council on his project, he said that little interest
had been shown in the plan by most of the stores approached thus far, but he expressed the hope that
he might find success in obtaining discounts at movie theaters.

David Powell told the council that the parking area behind Chambers Building was now available to students during the hours
posted. He further expressed concern over the lack of a signal at the railroad crossing on Griffith Street, saying that
he nearly had an accident there late one night, as he was unable to see a train moving across the
road. Johnny Gresham volunteered to look into the possibility of chartering a bus or plane for student transportation to the
NYU game later this winter.Change them. The Student-Faculty Conference Committee discussed the apparent increase in the amount of drinking on
campus and possible solutions to the problem. At the faculty meeting on Nov. Embry Will Push Study Overseas Prof. Joe
O. Embry, chairman of the Faculty Foreign Study Committee, will address the student body during Monday’s chapel period. Embry hopes
“to make Davidson students aware of the opportunities available for foreign study and travel. Often students wait too long before
beginning to make plans, and early preparation is essential for many of these programs.” “There are numerous programs available in
addition to the Davidson Foreign Plan,” commented Embry. He pointed out that the College is a member of the Council
on Student Travel, which offers students unusually economical means for summer travel overseas. The possibilities for expansion of Davidson's own
program appear to be great. With sufficient student interest, a year of study in Latin America may be made available.
Looking further into the future, Embry spoke of the possibility of a study program in Asia. Chamber Concert To Be
Presented The December Chamber Music Concert will be held Monday at 4:45 p.m. in the sanctuary of the Davidson College
Presbyterian Church. The half-hour program will feature madrigal singers, classical guitar, organ, and the Children’s Choir of the Davidson Presbyterian
Church. The madrigal group, organized and directed by Rufus Hallmark, is composed of Mrs. Paul Lowder, Mrs. Rupert Barber, Mrs.
Samuel Maloney, Rufus Hallmark, Don Davis, and Dupre Jones. They will perform three secular works by 16th-century English composers. WILL
JACKSON 19, student leaders Will Jackson, Fred Sackett, and Charlie Dibble presented a proposal for changing the drinking regulations so
that the trunks of automobiles would not be considered ‘on campus’. They felt that this would allow for a more
“systematic” enforcement of the rule. Action on this proposal, as well as an alternative one presented by the Executive Committee
of the faculty, was delayed until the monthly faculty meeting Tuesday, when the faculty adopted their new rule in (Continued
on Page Six) The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1964
HETZELMEN GET REVENGE ON FURMAN (See Page Five) NUMBER TWELVE Faculty Alters Regulations Covering Trunk Searches Jackson Aims To Kill
Council’s Proposal By BOB VANCE Davidsonian Staff Writer Student Body President Will Jackson has decided to call for the rejection
of the present amendment to the drinking rule which is pending before the student body in order that a clearer
and more precisely-worded clause with a new definition of ‘campus’ be adopted. The new, tentatively proposed amendment would be added
at the end of Section 2, Article VII of the Student Body Constitution and would read as follows: “For the
purpose of enforcing this regulation with specific regard to the possession of alcoholic liquors, the trunks of automobiles shall not
be covered by the term ‘campus’.” The decision to ask the student body to reject the amendment presented in assembly
Thursday was made as a result of its apparent ambiguity and possible misinterpretation. At the special meeting of the Student
Council Wednesday evening, Fred Sackett, president of the Senior Class, moved that the following clause be proposed to the student
body as an amendment to the Student Body Constitution: “Trunks of vehicles on campus will not be searched nor jurisdiction
claimed without prior authorization for the search of a specified vehicle by the Honor Court, the Student Council, or the
Executive Committee of the Faculty.” The motion was amended to read “... for the search of a specified vehicle for
a specified violation...” Lengthy discussion followed concerning the “ambiguities” in the wording of the motion. Student Body President Will Jackson
supported the Sackett motion as amended. Charles Dibble, editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, took issue. (Although not a member of Council,
Dibble along with Jackson and Sackett had appeared before the Faculty to request that the Faculty alter its concept of
trunks.) He contended that, if the motion as worded were placed in the Student Body Constitution, Council and Honor Court
members would still be honor-bound to enforce the prohibition against alcoholic beverages in trunks. He asked that the Sackett motion
be defeated and that the following be proposed in its place: “For the purpose of enforcing (Continued on Page Six)
Faculty Committee Adds Two Members Professors Richard R. Bernard and Locke White Jr. were elected to the Faculty Athletic Committee
by the faculty Tuesday afternoon. This committee will be instrumental in the selection of a new football coach to succeed
Coach William E. Dole, who recently resigned his post. Members of the Athletic Committee are elected from the faculty at
large, with no restrictions as to rank in the faculty or succession on the committee. Besides the two new members,
the committee consists of Dr. Paul A. Marrotte, chairman, Dr. W. G. McGavock, Dr. J. G. Martin, and President D.
Grier Martin and Dr. Tom Scott, Director of Athletics, both of whom are ex-officio members. ‘DEADEST PLACE I’VE BEEN’ Dugan
Blasts Davidson Mood By CHARLES VICK Davidsonian Reviewer Pulitzer Prize winner Alan Dugan was quite perceptive. “This is the deadest
place I've been on this tour.” His poetry was good too. The people who came to hear him were few,
but that is not too unusual. Perhaps it is the greatest compliment the student can bestow. Dugan talked about attitudes
toward poetry after he had read certain of his poems. Dugan is tall, lanky, and friendly. He did not seem
to really mind the poor reception. “A lot of people are just ashamed of poetry; they think it is fairy.”
One professor’s wife commented that there was a lot of interest in poetry on campus, but that it just had
no point of expression, no outlet. Writing might be a nice outlet. The thing that Dugan is praised for is
being an American poet. He writes in the language Americans speak and he well presents its beauty. In commenting on
his use of obscenities, Dugan noted that some used it to shock readers, to seem contemporary. “I use obscenities in
poems as they’re used. It is part of our language.” Perhaps the most appealing thing about Dugan was his explanation
of method. He did not become concerned with iambics or metrics. “I just write and let the line fall into
place.” This is not just easy talent. He keeps poems in his notebooks up to 10 years, revising and rewriting.
To another question he said that this falling of line into place is a process of the poet's own particular
syntax. Asked what his poems are about he simply said, “the way it is.” He writes about backyards and city
bums and war buddies and masturbation. He just says, “this is the way it is.” There are books of his
poetry available in the bookstore and they are worth the money. Before the evening was over a story was related
about Carl Sandberg’s one-word distinction between prose and poetry, “wattage.” This was explained as meaning that a poem gives off
heat and light because of its unique construction. Dugan was asked to agree or disagree, and he said, “the difference
is verse.” And that is the way it is. Dugan was not wild or beat or communistic. He was simply
extraordinary without the aid of affectation and that is an unusual thing. (Staff Photo by Smith) PULITZER PRIZE WINNER VISITS
DAVIDSON Alan Dugan (left center) Talks With Faculty Members
