PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN

Laundry Ups Prices To Escape Red Ink

The five-cent increase in the cost of student dry cleaning coupons this year will help the College laundry become self-supporting,
according to Robert A. Currie, College business manager. Currie reports that the laundry operated at a loss last year and
predicted a slight increase in the laundry fees for students next year. “We thought it best to increase prices step
by step until the laundry operation reaches the break-even point,” said Currie.

Director of alumni activities, Bill Bondurant, noted with some dismay that basic laundry charges to members of the faculty and
administration have also risen this fall. Currie explained that the faculty is charged two rates for shirts. The charge for
rough-dried shirts and other apparel is by weight. Finished shirts are more expensive. The price for rough-dried laundry has been
increased this year with the result that finished shirts now are not substantially more expensive than unfinished ones.

Several factors have increased the laundry’s cost of operation. A three-percent sales tax on services was levied a year and
a half ago by the state. In addition, practically all employees of the college, including laundry workers, have received a
pay raise of about five percent each year since 1957. Cost of supplies has increased. For example, the cost of
dry cleaning detergent has almost doubled in the past three years. Shipping costs for all supplies have increased each year.
Results of an independent survey of dry cleaning establishments in the Southeast showed the average price per suit to be
$1, so the college price of 90 cents cash or 80 cents with a coupon is still less than commercial
rates.

Young GOP's Have Rebirth, Pick New Student Leaders

The Young Republicans Club was reborn Wednesday night under the temporary leadership of Roland Eidson, J. Pinckney Whitson, and Larry
Noah. With attendance at 35, the neophyte Republicans first concerned themselves with organizational business. Committees were chosen for nominations of
officers and formation of a permanent constitution. An “immediate actions” committee was selected in order to facilitate rapid retaliation to
any assertions issued by the liberal camp.

Official business shall be initiated within the next week beginning with a Conservative reply to “this Patterson fellow” by a
local Republican candidate. The club believes “that the best government is that which governs least.” The group supports a campaign
“appealing to no particular ethnic group,” and they reiterate the “party’s basic tenet this year — the worthwhileness of each
individual.”

After asserting that the “American economy is now the most progressive among world powers,” the club reaffirmed its belief in
the necessity of changing the present administration. Davidson's Young Republicans postulate that they do not compose a purely Goldwater organization.
However, they intend to destroy the radical image which the Republican nominee projects. The club boasts a few Eastern-style Republicans,
but “Barry's Boys” will dominate the outfit's proceedings.

Membership is open to all Republicans for a mere $2 annual fee. Besides next week's meeting, Wednesday at 7 p.m.
in the Union, the club’s members are participating in a Young Republican Convention in Durham today and tomorrow.

Charles Mitchell Will Speak Monday

Charles J. Mitchell, Republican candidate for State Treasurer, will be Monday's chapel speaker. Appearing under the auspices of the Great
Issues Program and the recently organized Young Republican Club, Mitchell was a 1950 Davidson graduate and a member of Kappa
Alpha Order. Following graduation from Davidson, Mitchell became associated with a financial institution in eastern North Carolina.

Scripts 'n Pranks Promises Three Issues

Scripts 'n Pranks’ first issue will be published “shortly before Thanksgiving,” Editor Pete Crow announced this week. The magazine staff
plans to publish three issues this year, with the second coming out at Mid-Winters and the third in May, Crow
said. He added that “the student body is subject to other diverse activities of Scripts 'n Pranks without advance notice.”

Concerning the subject matter of the first issue Crow remarked, “I have only this to say. While in the North
Carolina gubernatorial race THE DAVIDSONIAN showed Richardson Preyer to be the probable winner, ours gave the lead to Bruce Burleson.
While THE DAVIDSONIAN’S sports writers were inferring that Mississippi College would take the Wildcat opener, we were predicting a tie.
The zenith moment of reckoning will come on Nov. 3. We are picking Governor Wallace.”

Freshman Court Sentences 27 Violators To Hard Labor

By BRITT SNIDER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Freshman Court, dispensing justice with maximum dispatch and efficiency, met Wednesday night and sentenced 27 freshman violators to various periods
of “hard labor” in an effort to reconcile these “rabble-rousers” with the college community in which they find themselves. Over
forty violations have been turned in thus far, according to Freshmen Adviser John Barrow, and those convicted have been sentenced
to various menial tasks, such as work on the cross country course, totaling student council questionnaires, or attending to needs
of Hindsley, Joe Peel, and Vernon Anderson, each with four “squeals” to his credit.

Although Barrow has no figures on last year’s court operations, he feels that this year's enforcement of these regulations has
been much better than in years past. He is hesitant to attribute this increased enforcement to the “Joe Jones Award”
recognition, but this seems to be the only explanation. Regulations this year are actually more lax than in years past
(walking on the grass is allowed), and it appears unlikely that upperclassmen have become any more conscientious. Indications are, however,
that it will not be all glory for the Joe Jones winner. Rumbles among freshmen have it that a tremendous
shower-party is in store for the upperclassman gaining the dubious distinction. Ah, well, the road to glory is often a
hard one.

ROTC Scholarships

(Continued From Page One)

departments during the next four years. “After four years the Army and the Air Force would be allowed by permissive
authority for this payment to be increased to $50 per month. The program also includes an optional two-year senior program.”

Dr. Roland Fry Praises ‘Liberal Education’

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

In a highly interesting and occasionally amusing chapel address Thursday morning, Dr. Roland M. Fry expounded his theories on “the
problems of self-knowledge, self-understanding, and self-acceptance” to the Davidson student body. Dr. Fry, a research professor in the Folger Shakespeare
Library in Washington, D.C., has done considerable work on this subject as is evinced by his books relating the Christian
doctrine to this problem of man.

“In our early years,” stated Dr. Fry, “we are told just to be ourselves. Good advice, but how are we
to be ourselves if we do not know ourselves? This brings us to the most important question of all; how
can we get to know ourselves?”

According to Dr. Fry, “Education is one way to get to know ourselves. With a liberal education one can gain
insights into his problems through the personal insights of those before him. But a man must be careful in this
process of self-evaluation and realization, for even if he is successful much pain and toil is involved; if he fails
it could mean the destruction of his character and person.”

All of this brings up the question of why man struggles to realize himself when lower animals merely accept themselves
as being and nothing more. The answer, in Dr. Fry's words, is that man “wants to be more than a
merely human animal. Man, from the time of the ancient Greeks, has generally striven for the highest ideals. But these
ideals are persistently unobtainable.”

What then is man to do when he cannot reach his goal? Dr. Fry has given the two major ways
in which man has always attempted to deal with his failure and resulting guilt by alluding to various literary works.
In one, Shaw's play entitled Major Barbara, man is shown to react to this situation of shame and failure by
bearing the pain of self or “other” inflicted punishment, or by somehow paying for it monetarily. Thus does Oedipus in
Oedipus Rex punish himself when he finds out his guilt. In Milton's Paradise Lost, Adam (Man) and Eve...(Women) are shown
to be punished by God when they try to change from their human status into gods, and they fail. The
pain they bear is not physical, but it is nevertheless a very real pain of alienation from themselves, each other,
and from God. Therefore, says Dr. Fry, man always tries to solve this problem of dealing with failure and guilt
by either payment or the bearing of pain, but neither of these can absolve, as both are ‘bound up" with
man’s self-interest. In summary, the campus visitor stated that although an escape from this problem of shame and failure is
not possible, a “rescue” is possible. This rescue man has no control over. Rather, it is the spontaneous gift of
another to man. This rescue is through the incarnation and atonement given man by God. This is precisely what man
needs to come to terms with his guilt and failure, and this is what Christianity offers him as a way
of dealing with his problem and finding himself. In short, concluded Dr. Fry, we can recognize and accept ourselves simply
on the basis that God himself has loved and established us as individuals.

Zon Announces Two Projects For DCRC

The Davidson Civil Rights Committee will begin its fall program at the first meeting at 7:00 Monday night at the
Davidson United Presbyterian Church. According to Chairman Calvin Zon, the committee will soon launch a two-point program among the town's
Negroes to get out the vote Nov. 3 and to better “the deplorable living conditions” in low-income areas. Other committee
officers include Harold Houston, first vice chairman; Rev. William Morris, second vice chairman; Van Quinn, secretary-treasurer; Steve Goode, corresponding secretary;
and Professors Philip B. Secor, Samuel D. Maloney, and E. F. Patterson, members-at-large of the executive committee. The 50 members
of the DCRC pay no dues except for a small initiation fee which is used to support their programs. The
get-out-the-vote project will be a door-to-door affair. Zon said, “We will visit every Negro home in Davidson to urge registered
voters to go to the polls on election day. We are concerned with the Negro getting the vote.” When asked
about apathetic white citizens, Zon remarked, “That's another matter. We can't handle everything.” The housing project follows a survey on
housing conditions made last year by the Davidson Mayor's Committee on Rights. Zon’s committee will make a more specific inquiry
into the problem and try to produce some solutions. “Maybe we can get some FHA aid," said Zon, “but we
will cross that bridge when we get there.”

Charlotte Minister To Speak Sunday

Rev. Thom W. Blair, rector of Christ Episcopal Church in Charlotte, will conduct the third of 14 vesper services this
semester on Sunday at 7:30 p.m. Blair, who was educated at the University of Virginia and at Virginia Theological Seminary
in Alexandria, served in several parishes before he came to Charlotte in 1957. After serving as chaplain in the anti-submarine
warfare branch of the Navy during World War II, he was rector at Hanover Courthouse, Va., and at St. Luke's
Church in Salisbury. He is a native of Virginia and has a son at Davidson College.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE FIRST SEMESTER 1964-65

Wednesday, Jan. 20
A.M. Third hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
P.M. Second hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

Thursday, Jan. 21
A.M. Third hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
P.M. Fourth hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

Friday, Jan. 22
A.M. Fourth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
P.M. Fifth hour classes, Monday, Wednesday, Friday

Saturday, Jan. 23
A.M. ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41
P.M. First hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

Monday, Jan. 25
A.M. First hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
P.M. Sixth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

Tuesday, Jan. 26
A.M. Second hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

Classes for first semester close Monday, January 18. Pre-examination Study Day, Tuesday, January 19. Morning examinations begin at 9:00 A.M.
Afternoon examinations begin at 2:00 P.M. Examinations of the 6th hour Tuesday and Thursday and seminar courses will be arranged
by the professor concerned at convenient times during the examination period.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abbott, Fogleman, McGavock, Secor
Abernethy, Fredericksen, Meeks, Terry
Blackwell, Hogan, Jutlaw, Williams
Bliss, Hopkins, Partridge, Woods
Dickson, King, Puckett, Workman

Attention SENIOR & GRADUATE MEN Students—U.S. Citizens needing nominal financial help to complete their education this academic year—and then commence
work—no consigners required. Send transcript and full details of your plans and requirements to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION, INC, 610-612 Endicott
Bldg., St. Paul 1, Minn. A Non-Profit Corp. UNDERGRADS, CLIP AND SAVE

Leading in the race for Joe Jones Award to be given to the upperclassman who turns in the most violations
is sophomore Jesse Sims. Sims, who is rapidly becoming known as the “campus meanie,” is substantially ahead of runner-up Eli
Peel, with Sims having reported 12 violations to Peel's 7. Others who are making feeble attempts to capture this award
are Pack and Mitchell.

Pesky Flu Virus Strikes Campus

“It is certainly uncomfortable but not dangerous,” Dr. J. B. Woods Jr., College Physician, says of the intestinal virus now
going around campus. “I hesitate to call it an epidemic, but when eight or ten out of a thousand come
down with it at the same time, we will have at least to call it a mild flare-up.” The bug
making its way around Davidson strikes and usually is gone in two or three days, Dr. Woods indicated. The College
Infirmary has medicine to relieve victims from the symptoms the pesky virus brings. Dr. Woods stated that this is an
off-year for influenza, which has plagued the campus in past years, but that flu-preventive shots are available at the Infirmary
for those who have been particularly susceptible to flu in the past or for those wanting to insure against it.

ROTC Plan

“This section would authorize those schools that prefer a two-year senior ROTC program to establish such a program for students
who have first completed successfully six-to-eight-week periods of summer military training,” explained the Georgia solon. This two-year program would serve
as a substitute for the first two years—the basic course—of ROTC training. The plan is intended to attract transfer students
from junior colleges without ROTC units and students at four-year colleges who have not had the basic course of the
ROTC program. Sen. Russell stated a number of lesser changes were also included in the measure: “The allowance for ROTC
students traveling to and from summer training would be increased from five to six cents per mile and the payment
to students while at summer training would be increased from $78 per month to $115 per month.”

AIRLIFT TO KOREA—Professor Sam D. Maloney (second from left) of the Bible and Religion Department at Davidson, and chaplain of
the North Carolina Air National Guard stationed in Charlotte, is shown at a South Korean air base this summer when
he took part in a medical airlift to several mission hospitals in Korea. Shown with Maloney (L-R) are Merrill Grubbs,
hospital administrator, and Misses Pat Whitener, An Ja Rhim, and Chung Sun Pak, all nurses at the mission field.

Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M. 1407 BROADWAY, NEW YORK 18, N.Y. A
Division of Industries
