**The Davidsonian**

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE - Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH - Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1964

A Search For The Means...

Some students submitted. But for many others, the Student Council-Honor Court room search was conducted in their absence and without their knowledge. The joint action by Council and the Court was prompted by the discovery recently that nearly 800 volumes have been missing from the college library over the past two years. Student Council first learned of the situation after a search of dormitory rooms during the Christmas holidays. According to Student Body President John Spratt, “a sizable number” of the missing books turned up in students’ rooms.

That the Student Council and Honor Court felt compelled to act is understandable. But even the loftiest objectives do not justify the substitution of expediency for proper procedure. The searchers simply used that method which would recover the most books in the shortest length of time. The blitzkrieg struck at a large percentage of dormitory rooms on campus. Whether or not the occupants were present was given no consideration. The goal had been set: missing books were to be returned even if the search involved rummaging through the rooms of students who were not only innocent but also free of suspicion.

Improper tactics have been charged in the past. Last fall students were worried “by the rumor that the Honor Court planned to search all cars and rooms for alcohol before Homecoming.” Honor Court Chairman Howard Arbuckle quashed the rumor and defended the court in the Nov. 1, 1963 DAVIDSONIAN, although admitting that the court had no search powers: Arbuckle emphasized that court members are not policemen sent out on periodic patrols—even if they did have the authority to search rooms and cars. They are not out to “get” anyone; there never has been nor will be “a big crack-down,” the court does not feel it is slack in its duties if students are not occasionally kicked out of school. Only after suspicion has arisen does the court attempt to discover possible violators of the Honor Code or the Student Body Regulations.

This excerpt raises several questions for the Honor Court chairman. In November, the Honor Court representative made no claim to the right to search automobiles or rooms. Nevertheless, the “right” was doggedly asserted in the March 26 raid. Faculty regulations mention searches at only one point—in reserving “the right to search any vehicle on the Davidson Campus.” The Student Body Constitution carries no provisions for room and automobile searches. Do the Honor Court and Student Council assume this “right”? Almost half the rooms on the campus were searched for books: had the individual occupants of each of the rooms searched attracted suspicion to themselves? No, rather half the community was harassed by an attempt to locate a few guilty parties.

We oppose indiscriminate searches such as that conducted on March 26. We do not relish the thought of searches of any nature. And yet, we admit that in certain situations, such as the library problem, a search is the only answer. Realizing this fact, we urge that steps be taken to protect individual rights and to prevent abuse of the innocent. The rights and duties of the Honor Court and Student Council with regard to searches should be clearly stated in the Student Body Constitution. In addition, guidelines should be established for conducting searches. These basic rules should be printed in the Wildcat Handbook in the same manner as the Honor Court trial procedure. Stipulations should include:

- No room may be searched unless one—preferably all—occupants are present.
- No room shall be searched at an unreasonable hour.
- The area involved and the object sought shall be carefully stipulated prior to the search.
- No search will be permitted unless there is a reasonable basis for suspicion.

C.L.D.

If a student removes a book from the library without checking it out and is caught, he is fined one dollar. Only when an attempt is made to remove the college’s identifying marks does the Honor Court consider a theft to have been committed. What value does a book have? Surely the value, for the most part, lies in the information it provides, in the service it offers. Anyone who intentionally removes a book without the permission of the library is appropriating the use and, consequently, the value of the volume for himself. There can be little doubt that this fulfills the definition of stealing—“to take or appropriate without permission, dishonestly, or unlawfully, especially in a secret or surreptitious manner.” The intentional, unauthorized removal of volumes from the library is in direct violation of the Honor System. Justice demands not only mercy and understanding but also firmness.

C.L.D.

Photographers: Sam Smith, Tom Thel, Jack Lingle, Johnny Wright, Rufus Hallmark, John Compton

Cartoonists: Lingle

Asst. Business Mng.: Irvine Welling, Ned Kelly, Malcolm Lane

Advertising Manager: Circulation Manager

Contributors this week: Mike Vedak, John Sartorius, Allen Webb, Bill Aitken, George Fain, Bob Holladay, Harry Carr, Bill Foster, Bob Adams, Bill Norfleet, John Bailey, Bob Strauser, Duncan Newcomer, Jonas Lonnroth, Forrest Roles, Don Tyler, and Ed McFarland.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

“Ex Libris”

Court Finds The Constitution...

THE RIGHT OF THE PEOPLE TO BE SECURE IN THEIR PERSONS, HOUSES, PAPERS, AND EFFECTS, AGAINST UNREASONABLE SEARCHES AND SEIZURES, SHALL NOT BE VIOLATED....

Opinions expressed on this page do not necessarily represent those of the editor whose views appear in the editorial column. Rather an attempt is made to present a cross-section of opinion. Only through the presentation of divergent ideas is it possible for this page to fulfill its role as a campus forum. Readers are encouraged to contribute to this forum through letters to the editor. All letters must be neatly written, preferably typed, and should be no longer than 250 words. No unsigned letters will be printed. Letters should either be mailed to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218 or slipped under the door of the newspaper office on the second floor of the College Union no later than 6 p.m. Tuesday night.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Tilley Claims Moving Vital In Prof’s Career

Dear Editor:

In a letter of the DAVIDSONIAN for 13 March, Bill Ferris questioned the departure of several members of the Davidson faculty. I wish to reply to Mr. Ferris's letter, for though I think he is to be admired for his concern—and to be commended for raising questions—I also think he is mistaken in his reasoning and in his facts.

The mistake of reasoning—a post hoc ergo propter hoc—lies in concluding, from the departure of professors critical of the College, that their criticisms brought about their departures. The conclusion does not follow. Many quite critical professors have remained at Davidson for years; I am sure that the Administration considers their criticism indispensable—as of course it is. The mistake of fact lies in Mr. Ferris’s phrase, “conflicts with the Administration.” I am not aware of conflicts between the Administration and myself. (I believe that only one of the professors Mr. Ferris mentioned entered into such conflict.) What Mr. Ferris seems to overlook, and what may not be apparent to many students, is that moving plays a large part in academic careers. Two years ago I knew almost nothing about small colleges. I came to Davidson—of whose very existence I had previously been unaware—to examine a small rural college for myself. I have learned a great deal, and I have had a truly delightful time; but I never intended to stay more than a few years, and as it turns out two years must be long enough.

So much has been said of criticism lately that I should like to make my own position clear. I never contemplated staying permanently at Davidson, because (among other reasons) it is a men’s college; it is rurally situated; and its library is not suitable for research. These are not criticisms, but facts. They are objections,not to Davidson, but to my staying at Davidson—and these are quite different things. It is true that I have some criticisms of Davidson—who does not? It is true that I should like to have done more at Davidson than I have been able to do. If I had been able to do more, I should gladly have stayed for a year or two longer. But I have not been able to make the contribution I wished to make; there is much to be done in the academic world: it is best from every point of view that I depart. Meanwhile, the obvious reason for the departures Mr. Ferris mentions is the promotion of academic careers. I suspect that nearly every one of the professors on Mr. Ferris’s list left Davidson for a higher salary, a more responsible position, a more congenial kind of teaching, or a more prestigious institution. (The same motives bring other professors to Davidson.) In general, and despite many exceptions, the more desirable an academician seems, the more likely he is to depart. This may seem unfortunate: but except for places like Harvard, Chicago, and California it is the way of the academic world. The right question, then, is not, Who leaves? but, Who stays? For if the general level of its faculty is maintained, a few departures will not change Davidson College.

W. H. Tilley
Assoc. Prof. of English

B.C. O84, Publishers Newsense

An Urchin's Way, Honest Expression In Sex
BY DUNCAN DO. NEWCOMER

The Sex Revolution—like the Industrial Revolution—is late in the South, but hardly from a lack of natural resources. Rather, the Bible Belt has long served as the South’s chastity belt. How long, how long will the old citadels of piety withstand the new crisis of passion? Not long at all if piety and passion are felt to be mutually exclusive. Sex—as Scripts ‘n Pranks editor-emeritus Hank Ackerman says—is being demythologized. The myth that the virgin bride is the only bride is felt by many to be as irrelevant to love and marriage as the myth of the Virgin Mary is to knowing Christian love. The myth that sex is only for baby-making began to falter about the time biplanes went out and D. H. Lawrence came in preaching that love—all facets—was the salvation of man. And the Freudian myth that sex expression is innately good and repression naturally bad went out when the honest Radcliffe sophomore said something about feeling guilty.

As the myths fall, new meaning is found in sex. Our generation is the demythologizer; our generation is the discoverer. This is good. It is our contribution to society. Our generation’s approach to sex is good, for it is honest. There is no sham when today’s student says sex must be a part of a real relationship. To us, sex must be a meaningful expression of the whole, homogenized person—body and spirit. To us, sex is mutual discovery of self, a way among ways of being. Sex is part of the identity crisis and to it our generation applies as an ethic the virtues of self-awareness and the vices of selfishness. Our view of sex is good because we see sex as part of life—not a third-floor, dark-room, thrill. Sex as expression involves the possibilities of virtue and vice. For it is subject to the general ethic of all self-expression—honesty and beauty. It involves more than self and is subject to the ethic of mutuality—consideration and concern. Sex is an easy escape. Yet when sex is lived by the ethic of concern, then it becomes a difficult path to living, a path worth its rewards. The citadels of piety need not fear the crisis in passion. For passion is a part of the whole man and our generation wants it as such. Sex as an assertion of being is no challenge to piety.

U. S. Foreign Policy For Cuba: Flexible Reality And Hard Myth
BY MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON

It takes no expert to observe that the world situation can change and does change very rapidly in a few years and even in a few months. Luis Manrara, Executive Director and President of the Truth About Cuba Committee, urged that the United States adopt the so-called “hard line” policy of total economic blockade and recognition of a rival government-in-exile toward the present Cuban Communist government. Senator William Fulbright has recognized a changed world situation and charged that the United States was failing to adapt to the new conditions by “clinging to old myths in the face of new realities.”

The failure of the Cuban professional classes to protest and resist the murder of constitutional democracy by Batista in 1952, and then to discern and reject Communism under Castro in 1959, was well-noted by Manrara. And Manrara’s “mea culpa” could be a delicate warning to politically secure persons everywhere in the Western Hemisphere. American foreign policy towards Cuba must be acknowledged a failure if its end was to eliminate Communism in Cuba. The invasion attempt, which failed so ignominiously at the Bay of Pigs for lack of air cover, showed the United States obviously committed in the eyes of everyone except its UN representative and top officials, engaging in denials and double-talk as ridiculous as that practiced by Fidel Castro affirming-denying his Communist affiliations. It is evident now that the trade blockade of Cuba has fallen apart, in some degree due to U.S. inconsistency. While the reasons for the failure of our military intervention and trade embargo are many and varied, it nonetheless remains that American foreign policy has failed to make one iota of progress in ridding Cuba of Communism. Senator Fulbright rightfully suggests a third alternative of wary co-existence with Cuba.

Manrara gets his worst grade in claiming that there is neither individuation nor difference in the Communist bloc. He might have meant that Communism is ultimately concerned with world domination, but this at best is only a superficial analysis. The lecturer equated the policies of Lenin, Stalin, and Khrushchev as being one and the same and denounced the present Sino-Soviet rift as being a transparent hoax. What Manrara missed is that Communism has been a mask for Russian imperialism in Eastern Europe and a mask for Chinese imperialism in Asia. These two brands of imperialism, seemingly the same on the surface, have finally come into conflict because of fundamentally different immediate objectives. It is quite possible that in time the Soviet Union will modify its imperialistic ambitions and that Communist Cuba will evolve into a different state from its present one. And the United States must be prepared for both eventualities.

Russian Uses Soft-Talk On Young Wildcat Capitalists
(Editor’s note: From Sweden, Lonnroth attends Davidson on a Richardson Scholarship.)
BY JONAS LONNROTH

In spite of his somewhat tedious chapel talk, Secretary Anatoli Myshkob from the Soviet Embassy was to me one of the most interesting personalities that have visited the campus this year and certainly the most exotic one intellectually. As when a minister speaks, it was hard to know what to believe and what not to believe. In addition to his appeasing words, his manners were those of an expert snow bird. Most obvious were his repeated gropings for words that he did not need. Of course, this could also have been his Young Pioneer spirit to learn as much as possible. One of the purposes of having an embassy is to spread goodwill, and Myshkob's endeavor to do this was about as perfect as I have ever heard a Communist make. But his office prevented him from really showing the aggressive side of a red among blues.

Perhaps it would take inviting an American Communist to campus to have somebody present the red-hot arguments against western capitalism of today and yesterday, and demonstratively dump God and Private Property on the same garbage-heap. Whatever one’s purpose is, I think it is of vital importance that Western students be confronted with the apparent jungle of Marxist-Leninist thinking. It is frustrating and fascinating, also a little contagious. We all hear a lot about Commies and Comsymps but until presented a real live specimen we won't have a chance to know the thoughts and facts that form the mental foundation for the Communists here and abroad. The American right-wingers and many anti-communist propagandists, such as the Cubans that were here Tuesday night in spite of all their “research,” certainly do not provide a satisfactory analysis.

To sum up, having had a Barcelona-type Communist, it would be a kick to see another Scriven, not a blue-eyed blond one, but one dipped in red, air his views in the otherwise stale political climate on campus. If we are really lucky, somebody might even form a little Marxist clique so that the world would be represented more evenly in Davidson. Think of all the nice, everlasting debates we could have. Perhaps even some of our freshman friends would be motivated enough to show up. Yep, that would be fun.

by johnny hart