PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1964

King Goes To Asia For Peace Corps

Bob King, a former Davidson pre-med student, has begun a two-year assignment as a Peace Corps Volunteer in Thailand. A native of Durham, King was one of 4 volunteers to leave for the Southeast Asian country on Jan. 2. This group will join Thai co-workers and other Peace Corpsmen in initiating community and individual programs geared to the solutions of village problems.

A member of the class of 1964, King transferred to Davidson from Hampden-Sydney at the end of his freshman year. While at Davidson he was a member of Alpha Tau Omega, on the baseball team, and active in the Westminster Fellowship and the International Relations Club.

The Thailand project will involve developing practical solutions to problems of education, sanitation, recreation, and health. The volunteers will also work on water availability and usage, garden and field crop production, poultry and swine husbandry, feeder roads, and village industries.

For three months, King and the other new volunteers trained in the Thai language, in the history, customs, and traditions of this Eastern country, and in American history and institutions.

STUDYING A SLIDE — Davidson Assistant Professor of Chemistry J. G. Martin holds a slide to the light as Dr. Henry Eyring, dean of the University of Utah graduate school, looks on. Dr. Eyring was on campus Tuesday for two chemistry class lectures on “Theory of Liquids” and on “Modern Theory of Optical Rotation.” The dean is a past president of the American Chemical Society and is president-elect of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. (Staff Photo by Smith)

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bryan Jackson Pierce
Campbell Johnston Plott
Cumming McGeachy Rhodes
Hight Marrotte Schenck
Houchens Minter Smith
Hunt

Edmunds White, associate director of admissions and director of financial aid, has been appointed recently to national committees in these two areas.

The first appointment is to the Advisory Board of the College Admissions Center in Evanston, Il., which decides policy questions for the center, the country’s largest and oldest clearing house for college applicants. White, the only southerner on this board, will serve for a tenure of three years.

In the field of financial aid, he will serve on the Advisory Committee on National Student Financial Aid Problems of the College Scholarship Service, located in New York City. The Service, established in 1954 by the College Entrance Examination Board, not only systematizes colleges' financial aid methods, but also concerns itself on a national scale with students’ problems in financial aid.

Roger Landrum, a former Peace Corps volunteer in Nigeria currently serving as a recruiting officer for the Corps, will speak in chapel this Tuesday, Feb. 11. Landrum will also be in the Union. In connection with Landrum’s visit, there will be a special Peace Corps display in the Union.

Pledges Sigh Relief: ’64 Greek Week Is Over

BY ALLEN WEBS

Some 200 fraternity pledges sighed Wednesday after the ordeal of Greek Week. The hectic episode, which began earlier than usual because of conflicts with Midwinters and the Duke game, filled the campus with many unusual events, sights, and sounds.

The week's activities began a week ago Wednesday night with the Interfraternity Pledge Banquet. Tom Covington, a Davidson graduate and assistant director of student affairs at N. C. State College, discussed the priority of fraternity aims before the banquet group.

The Pledge Class Sing on Friday night and various service projects accomplished on Saturday and Monday highlighted the events of the week. At the Sing, replacing Skit Night for the first time, each pledge class sang a fraternity standard and another song of their own creation. First place went to the Sig Eps, who sang “All Through the Night” and then asked in their original song, “What will you do with an underachiever early in the morning...?”

Sigma Chi pledges took runner-up position with “Hail, Hail to Sigma Chi” and a song about the Davidson graduate who is “socially a mess.” The ATOs and Betas tied for third place.

The pledges’ participation in service projects indicates that the week was not devoted entirely to fun. Some of the work done by the groups is as follows: ATO—painted building for Mecklenburg County Association for the Blind; Beta—built toy boxes for North Carolina Orthopedic Hospital at Gastonia; KA—general repairs to War Memorial Building in Mooresville; Kappa Sig—repairs at the YMCA Fresh Air Camp; Pika—cleaned area behind The Hub; and Pi Kapp—painted jail cells in Mooresville.

Others included: Sigma Chi—general repairs at Nevins Vocational Training School; Sigma Nu—painted street markers in Cornelius and placed a metal plaque on each; SAE—painted Boy Scout hut in Mooresville; Sig Ep—cleaned Alexander Home for Children in Charlotte; Phi Delt—general repairs at Center Presbyterian Church; and Phi Gam—cleared college property on Lake Norman.

The campus awoke each morning to cadence counts as many pledge classes marched to breakfast. Once inside the fraternity houses, the pledges were kept busy by the active brotherhood who could always find something for them to do. Fraternity house trophies and enthusiasm were shown for the week as did the shoes and cars of the actives. Numerous other chores were promptly attended to by the pledges.

Conspicuous attire also characterized the week. For instance, the KAs wore bright Confederate flags on the backs of their shirts. The Sig Eps wore yellow pith helmets. The brightly lettered shirts of the Pikas and the strange snake shirts of the Sigma Nus livened campus color. Scavenger hunts were the order for some pledges while others had different events.

After the many activities, the weary pledges certainly did not complain when Greek Week ended at 10 p.m. Tuesday. Rick von Unwerth, chairman of the IFC Greek Week Committee, was unable to observe much of the week because he was in the infirmary. However, he did note that pledge class spirit was not as high as it has been in the past. He feels greater enthusiasm will be shown for the Pledge Class Sing after its newness wears off.

Bob Young, fraternity liaison officer, does not like the interruption that the weekend provided, although Sunday was an opportunity for pledges to study and rest. He believes the Sing will be continued next year.

In compliance with regulations, all formal initiations will be completed by Feb. 16.White and Harriet Hudson of YMCA office for consultation at Randolph-Macon Woman's College Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday of next week. The Peace Corpsman received his B.A. with honors from Albion College in Michigan and his M.A. from Bowling Green State University in Ohio. He had completed one year of work on a Ph.D. in English at Michigan State University when he became one of the first Peace Corps volunteers. Eventually, Landrum intends to complete his doctorate and take up a career in college teaching. Landrum joined the Corps in 1960 and was trained in African studies for two months at Michigan State. He was then assigned to the newly formed University of Nigeria where he taught English composition, English literature, and modern African literature for two years.

Will Terry, who has arranged this visit, suggests that anyone who wants to make an appointment to see Landrum at a specific hour during his visit should make arrangements now.

H. EDMUNDS WHITE and Harriet Hudson are the only Southerners on the twelve-man committee headed by Dean John U. Monro, who is known for his achievements and his liberal influence in the field of education as dean at Harvard.

Security is giving your Valentine the brand-new PEANUTS © cartoon book "MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT" W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI RIGHT BEHIND YOU, CHARLIE BROWN. Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M. in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for PIZZA. Chas M. Schulz Only $1.00. Melt, Riehart and Winstead, Inc. the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.C.

A career for exceptional men. Some notes about you, about us, and the advertising business.

About you. If you are the man we seek, you have an insatiable curiosity about people and the world around you. You’re alert and responsive to new ideas, new ways of doing things. You like to take on new problems... you see them as opportunities. You dig deep into the why of things. And the best answers you can come up with today are never good enough for you tomorrow. You’re an individualist. Yet you thrive on team spirit. You have conviction about freedom of choice, consistent with the rights of others. You're the kind of man who could be successful in business for himself, but you see the greater challenge implicit in today’s major enterprises.

About us. The J. Walter Thompson Company was formed 100 years ago and has long been one of the world’s largest advertising firms. Its stock is owned by more than five hundred active staff members. We help over 500 companies in the United States and abroad sell thousands of products and services to hundreds of millions of people. Last year alone, we were responsible for the advertising investment of close to a half-billion dollars. There are 6,900 people working with Thompson around the world. Their backgrounds range far and wide. And so do their assignments, which include writing, art, broadcasting, market research, media buying, international business, marketing and merchandising, accounting, music, styling, the theatre, and the social sciences. In our experience, superior individuals from every graduate and undergraduate educational discipline find successful careers in a major agency such as the Thompson Company. Staff members in our New York Office alone represent nearly three hundred colleges and universities here and abroad.

Your career with us. You may be surprised to learn that while an advertising company must have artistically creative people, it depends just as much on people who are imaginative and inventive in other ways. Our business is selling. Communicating through the written and spoken word is how we sell. You must possess the ability to speak and write well so your ideas may be shared and understood. We are looking for the kind of men who wish and are able to assume substantial responsibility early in their business lives. To such men we offer a remarkable chance to grow and develop—one seldom found in any firm. Previous advertising experience is not required. Basically, our interest is in the nature of a person rather than in his specialized knowledge and abilities. We offer you no standard starting salary, no cut-and-dried training program. Beginning salaries are individually considered and compare favorably to those of other national firms. We help you tailor your own development program, based on your interests, your abilities, your goals. Your program will differ from other men’s programs just as you differ from other men. When you join us you will work side by side with experienced advertising men. Your growth will be based on your own initiative, your own development. There are no age or seniority requirements to limit the responsibility you can earn. We encourage you to follow your curiosity into all phases of advertising, because we want you to become a well-rounded practitioner as rapidly as possible. Experienced advertising men are eager to coach you individually in your efforts to develop your capabilities. Additionally, you are free to delve into every nook and cranny of advertising through our annual series of professional seminars, workshops, and classes. You learn from men who are experts in their fields.

About men who join us. A remarkable number of college men who have joined us in the past decade have remained with us and are enjoying varied, exciting careers. Because of our emphasis on early growth, relatively young men commonly handle major responsibilities in many phases of our business—both in this country and abroad. All initial assignments are in New York City or Chicago, but we have many other offices in the United States and throughout the world; and if you are interested, you may request a transfer later on. If you wish to be a candidate, you must graduate in 1964 and be able to join us by June of 1965. You may obtain further information at the placement office. Please check there regarding the possibility of a personal interview. We shall be on campus February 17.

J. Walter Thompson Company
New York, Chicago, Detroit, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Hollywood, Washington, D.C., Miami, Montreal, Toronto, Mexico City, San Juan, Buenos Aires, Montevideo, São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Porto Alegre, Recife, Belo Horizonte, Santiago (Chile), Lima, London, Paris, Antwerp, Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Milan, Vienna, Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban, Port Elizabeth, Salisbury (Southern Rhodesia), Bombay, Calcutta, New Delhi, Madras, Karachi, Colombo (Ceylon), Sydney, Melbourne, Tokyo, Osaka, Manila.

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER