SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1964 PAGE THREE

BY JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

A SLIGHT OVERSTATEMENT

The Wildcat forecast I find lists Davidson as last in the conference, including polls of Southern Conference coaches and sportswriters, and it is hard to disagree. The most favorable prediction I find is in Playboy, a rival publication which forecasts a 3-6 record for the Wildcats. Three victories are a good bet, but expectation of much more would be sheer optimism.

College, Lehigh, and Lafayette are the best bets for Davidson victories, but it is unlikely that the ’Cats will take all four. A side of the football picture is the fact that Davidson opponents aren’t so hot either. Only two of these teams—Furman and Mississippi—had winning seasons last year, and Mississippi College’s victories were over such powers as Ouachita, Austin, and Troy.

Encouraging for the future are the reports on the freshman team. It is risky to say too much about the frosh before they are tested, but it really looks like this could be the best group of first-year men in recent years. If this year’s men produce in the future a winning varsity, they will have overcome what has become Davidson’s least desirable tradition.

HOLDING OUR OWN

Aside from football, Davidson seems to be able to hold its own in the Southern Conference pretty well. The aggregate standings for all eleven conference sports last year place Davidson in a tie for fifth with the soldier boys of The Citadel. Since all members do not compete in all sports, points are awarded on the basis of one for last, two for next to last, etc.

POINTS FIRSTS
West Virginia 71 3
VMI 60 2
Virginia Tech 59 2
Furman 46 0
Davidson 44 1
Citadel 44 1
William & Mary 37 1
George Washington 27 1
Richmond 26 0

B-BALL LOOSE ENDS

Radio station WBT in Charlotte will broadcast Davidson basketball games this season, instead of the hard-to-get Belmont station. A radio and TV platform and booth over the east bleachers is being installed for this season, and about four games will be telecast from the gym. Television arrangements are also being made for some of the away games, and the games with NYU, St. Joseph’s, and West Virginia are definitely going to be telecast.

WARREN MITCHELL
LEFTY’S NEW AIDES

Crowd-pleasing referees Lou Bello and Charlie Eckman won't be pleasing Davidson crowds this fall—they weren't hired for any Davidson games. An addition of 190 seats to the east bleachers is being considered. At two dollars a seat (even for capacity crowds), the extra seats would bring in $2, for the season—more than enough to pay for themselves.

CHEERS FOR THE HILL

The hill opened up its purse strings some this summer and spent about $3000 to provide the lake campus with boating facilities. Three canoes, a sailboat, a motorboat, and a fishing boat were purchased and are available to students for use. Sophomore P.E. classes are now offered in sailing, water skiing, and canoeing, meeting one and a half hours one afternoon a week. Dr. Scott notes that none of these classes will be offered Tuesday, and that on these afternoons sailboat instructions to all students will be offered. The athletic department is requiring students to exhibit at least some sailing ability before allowing them to check out the sailboat.

The athletic department has hit the jackpot—a new athletic office machine, an apparatus for throwing tennis balls, and a movable rebounder for Lefty were all purchased this summer. Subject to approval at the conference meeting in February, tennis coach Harry Fogleman is the new chairman of the Southern Conference tennis committee, and Dr. Scott is chairman of the committee. Davidson will host three conference tournaments this year—cross country, basketball, and tennis.

We would like to take the opportunity to welcome all students new and old back to school. We would like for you to come in and look at our complete line of suits, sport coats, slacks, and accessories.

CAT TALES!

THE DAVIDSONIAN GRIDDERS GIRD FOR FALL OPPONENTS

"Real good spirit... working very hard..."

Mitchell, Holland Take Assistant Cage Posts

By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Two faces, one new and the other old, will join the Davidson basketball coaching ranks this year. Warren Mitchell, mentor of the 1963-64 Virginia cage champions from Newport News, has been appointed assistant varsity coach and will aid particularly in the scouting and recruiting duties of the staff. The familiar face to Wildcat fans belongs to alumnus Terry Holland who has been hired to help with the freshman team and to take an active part in beating the bushes for outstanding high school basketball talent for next year’s frosh team.

Coach Mitchell compiled a four-year record of 78-11, including an undefeated season of 24 wins, which copped the Group 1-A crown. A 1957 graduate of the University of Richmond, he was outstanding in the Southern Conference Tournament and was named to the second team All-Southern Conference basketball team. After serving a stint in the Army, Mitchell coached at York County (Va.) High School before moving to Newport News.

“I am delighted that Warren will be with us next year,” comments Head Coach Lefty Driesell. “He has demonstrated outstanding coaching abilities and has the personal characteristics for doing a fine job in Davidson’s basketball program.”

Foreseeing outstanding records for both the varsity and frosh teams, Coach Mitchell reflected recently about his new job, “I'm really happy to be here and to get the opportunity to work at Davidson.” Coach Mitchell, his wife Anne, and their son Warren, Jr., age four months, are living at 413 N. Main Street in Davidson. Coach Holland, who was theOnly starting senior on the nationally ranked Davidson team, which compiled a 22-4 record, is looking forward to a “fine season” and is anxious to work with the current crop of freshman eager. Captain of the varsity team last year, he led the nation in field goal percentage and won a place on the All-Southern Conference second team for his all-around ability. After averaging 23 points per game as a freshman, Holland joined the varsity as a sophomore and showed signs of things to come in Lefty Driesell’s first winning team at Davidson. “Because he has played our system, Terry will do a really fine job for us,” commented Coach Driesell. “I think he will be an asset to our recruiting because he was here as a student for four years and can tell the prospects about going to Davidson.”

Wildkittens Sparkle In Pre-Season Drills

Prospects for a winning freshman football team are “good” this year, according to freshman coach Tom Stevens. “The boys have been working hard since September 6 and showing a lot of spirit. We now have twenty-three boys on the team, but could use a few more.” Chip Scharfschwert, (5'11”, 190 lbs.) is looking sharp at quarterback. “He has a strong arm, throws the ball well, and is also a good runner,” says Stevens. Bill Taylor, (5'11", 180 lbs.) shares quarterbacking duties with Scharfschwert, but he'll start at halfback. He has a good start, break-away speed, and is hard to bring down. Pete Glidewell, a 5'10", 180 lb. fullback, is a good blocker and straight-ahead runner. Dick Lindsay, (5'11", 175 lbs.) is the other halfback. “The line is equally as strong as the backfield,” Stevens adds. Kim Johnson, (6’, 175 lbs.) is an aggressive end with good hands. Walter Greene, (6', 200 lbs.) plays center and is an aggressive linebacker. Tupper Morehead, (5'11", 205 lbs.) and George Solley, (5'11", 185 lbs.) are the top guards, and Ken Vogel, (5'10", 185 lbs.) and Ross Dorneman, (5'11", 220 lbs.) are the tackles. The freshmen have five games this year, opening with Lees-McCrae October 5 at Banner Elk.

Spirit, Nasty Helmets Mark ’64 Cat Gridders

“Our squad has real good spirit and is working very hard,” reports football Head Coach Bill Dole after watching the 1964 edition of the Wildcats work out for three weeks. With ten starters gone from last year’s team that won only one game, an exceedingly light and somewhat slow team, injuries to several key personnel, a rather ragged scrimmage against Carolinas Conference cellar-dweller Newberry, and some rather nasty looking new black helmets, little else can be said good about the ‘red and black machine’ of Davidson's fight song. Dole notes that the NCAA's liberal substitution rule “should be a help to us,” and he plans to use an offensive unit and a defensive unit in taking advantage of the rules change.

The key to the ‘Cat offense is 185 lb. quarterback Steve Heckard—a starter at end last year and Davidson's only honorable mention on the All-Conference team. Heckard is probably the best athlete on the squad, but his somewhat less than pinpoint passing accuracy leaves much to be desired, as was indicated in last Saturday's scrimmage. Steve Smith, a 170 lb. junior, and Lyle Blalock, a 179 lb. senior, are the halfbacks on Dole’s “go” team. Seniors Pat Fischer (171) and Dave Hendricks (210) will handle the fullback duties and will also alternate on defense. Fischer is currently out with a broken hand, but should be ready for the opener against Mississippi College. At end posts are 195 lb. senior Steve Davidson and 175 lb. sophomore Bill Rikard. Starter Dan Barefoot is out indefinitely with a shoulder injury, leaving junior Tom Simmons (220) and Ed Childs (208), a sophomore, to battle for his tackle position. 213 lb. Stu Perry, a junior, fills the other tackle slot. Offensive guards are 222 lb. senior Jay Rogers and either Julian Fite (175) or Joe Gaddy (185), both sophomores. Starting at center is 185 lb. senior Will Jackson, and backing him at the pivot post is 163 lb. senior Dave Walker, who has been unable to practice yet because of an injured back.

The defensive end posts are manned by juniors Pack Hindsley (200) and Jim Rollins (215), both capable performers. Mike Cummings (210), a junior, and senior Bruce Dalton (195) are the defensive tackles. Juniors Jerry Blackstock (190) and Woody Hill (195) form a strong defensive guard corps, and sophomore Gary Waldron (205) mans the middle of the defensive line. In the secondary are junior Dave Sprinkle (155), sophomores Jim Phipps (170) and Tommy Dews (168), and either Hendricks or Fischer.

In reference to Davidson's schedule, Dole reports that “all of the opponents will be tough. Richmond could be the conference champ, and we will be outmanned in all our Southern Conference games (Richmond, Furman, Citadel, VMI) because of our small number of scholarships.”

1407 BROADWAY, NEW YORK 18, N.Y.

News in the campus tradition — Square-ply from Galey and Lord—the first Fall weight Dacron polyester and cotton fabric for your casual slacks. In all the right colors and the classic neutrals.

Galey & Lord

Natural Worsted Hopsacking

True to tradition in detail, shoulder styling, authentically tailored in a new selection of an old favorite, worsted Hopsacking. Your choice of colors in muted tones appropriate for campus, country, or office. With Tradition

Our selection of sweaters is one of the largest and most beautiful that we have ever had. You may choose a V-Neck or cardigan in wool, cashmere or camel hair from a rainbow of colors.

Rush Wilson Ltd. Davidson, N. C.

Rugged smooth in sweaters.

Gant Shirts

A Great Assortment Of Stripes and Solids

Visit Us Soon

Corbin Buggy Whip Worsteds

Snappy colors are made-to-mix with sports coats, jackets and

PARRY & CO.

A Division of Burlington Industries