FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1964 PAGE THREE

(Staff Photos by Thel)

RICHARDSON SCHOLAR SIMON HENSON (left) CHATS WITH LESLIE BROWN

Crumwell and Brown visit Davidson and meet students for the first time.

Evangelical Convert Gives Own Brand Of Christianity

By BILL FOSTER

Gert Bahanna backed up her “gut level Christianity” with wit, charm, and sincerity to win a standing ovation from the Davidson student body at Tuesday's chapel. Mrs. Bahanna wasted no time in identifying herself with the students by telling of her arrest for doing 125 mph in her Corvette Stingray. She immediately put everybody on her side by boldly asserting that she was “against this obligatory chapel junk. No one likes to have God rammed down his throat.”

She then began to castigate the “milk-toast, watered-down version of Christianity that so many get today.” Censuring the “pew sitters,” she called Christianity the “hardest thing I ever tried to do. Jesus Christ,” she went on, “hated ‘good’ people; they crucified Him. I am a snob about snobs. Our churches are too full of comfortable, respectable people; Christ spent most of his time with the bums and prostitutes.”

Warning against the fallacy of the “supremacy of the intellect,” she said, “We all know morons with five degrees. Your generation is truly searching for the truth; don’t settle for the half-truths my generation and your parents’ generation did.”

In her visit to the Methodist Church and fraternity houses, she had many comments on current topics of interest. When asked if she would write the administration about compulsory chapel, she replied, “No, I don't think that’s my position as a visitor. Your chaplain, Rev. Will Terry, seemed to get nervous enough over what little I said in chapel.”

When asked how she maintained her fast pace, even after reaching the fabled three-score-and-ten, she replied, “I have a good Boss. When I ask for a weekend off, He says, ‘No, you got started at this thing sorta late.’”

Speaking of the campus sex crises around the country, she said, “You are just discovering what we adults have known for forty years. We get just a little tired of acting so excited about it when you come running to us like a child who has just made a new discovery. You should have gotten over that stage when you were six.”

She wasn’t particularly kind to fraternities. “I sorta have a reaction against this top-crust junk. They are just another stage in the ‘belonging’ mania. Later on, it will be the best country club you can afford, or the best business club or civic organization that you can get into. Each level has its prizes. I sorta feel compassion for the ones who don’t make it.”

In her chapel talk, she used as an example her life—which has included three unsuccessful marriages, drug addiction, chronic alcoholism, and a suicide attempt—to explain the power of Jesus Christ. She placed herself squarely against suicide attempts: “There is nothing more embarrassing than when you can’t die.” She claims that she “found” Christ through a couple who had been alcoholics and an Episcopal minister. Accepting Christ at the age of 53, she compared her conversion to a “spiritual shower bath.” Two questions serve as the measuring rod for her actions: “Gert, how are you doing for Jesus Christ?” and “Is this for God or Gert?”

After reciting the prayer of a “long-dead slave,” she gave her final benediction: “Bless you brats!”

By TOM LOFLIN

When President D. G. Martin endorsed L. Richardson Preyer for governor, he necessarily pleased—even if unintentionally—one of Davidson's largest benefactors, the Richardson family. But he perhaps did not take into account that the candidate he supports could hurt possibly the most important of Davidson's generous friends, the Duke Endowment.

The situation is somewhat complicated, but at its heart is a thorny problem that is occurring all over the country—that of rural electrification cooperatives. Preyer is disposed favorably to the co-ops in North Carolina, supporting their continued existence so much that one man in his camp boasted to THE DAVIDSONIAN, “He is for the rural electrification companies remaining tax-free to such an extent that the Duke Power Company is against him.”

The Duke Endowment, created in 1924 by the will of the founder of the power company, derives a great percentage of its income from its interest in Duke Power. At that date, it held 122,647 shares, which by today have split many times and increased in value. The Duke Endowment gives Davidson five percent of its earnings in a special grant set up by the Duke will. In addition, the endowment also makes special gifts from time to time to the college.

The power company itself, while separate from the endowment, also has taken a great interest in Davidson over the years, according to Robert J. Sailstad, college director of development. Perhaps the best-known gift from the company is the 106 acres it gave to the college on the shores of its Lake Norman. “They very considerately gave us the closest land to the college that they had,” Sailstad commented. He added that its value had never been appraised.

Sailstad said that some of the directors of the power company’s board are also trustees of the endowment, and added, “You might say that the relationship is very close.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FIRST AMERICAN NEGROES

By BOB STRAUSER

This past weekend two future members of the Class of '68 saw the Davidson campus for the first time. Leslie Brown and Wayne Crumwell, the first American Negroes admitted to Davidson, came at the personal invitation of a group of interested students.

From Trenton, N. C., Brown has received his education in a completely segregated environment. He applied to Hampton Institute and Duke, as well as Davidson, but preferred the latter for its small school atmosphere. President of his student body, Brown plans to participate in the three-two plan, completing his engineering degree at Duke, “if possible.”

Crumwell, on the other hand, attended school in New Jersey until the eighth grade. He then moved to the segregated Chesapeake, Va., area and completed his high school education. Does he feel his secondary school adequately prepared him for college? “I may find myself unprepared,” said Crumwell, “but the fault will likely be my own and not that of my high school.”

Unlike Brown, Crumwell speaks freely on almost any subject and with almost anyone who expresses an interest. His past participation in debating and dramatics helps to explain his extrovertive tendency, but this is not the whole story. “I am sometimes afraid of new situations, strange faces, new questions. But,” Crumwell continued, “I am rapidly getting over these fears. In the past few months, I have had to express my views before unfamiliar audiences. Your self-confidence increases through this kind of experience.”

Neither of the two students expressed an avid interest in athletic participation—at least not on a varsity level. Brown was statistician for his high school football team, and Crumwell showed signs of becoming a handball addict.

Personal views of the two students appeared in conversations with Davidson students. Brown feels that the demonstrations in New York are quite possibly going too far. He later talked at some length about his brother in the Peace Corps and his hopes for the young Negro’s future education. During the evening, Brown was amused at the student reaction to the James Bond escapades in the Union.

Crumwell’s personality came through in a quiet conversation late Sunday evening. Although he freely expressed himself, he gave at the same time the appearance of being reserved. He is far from being a flag waver, but he cannot help but feel a little pressure and a little extra motivation arising from the racial situation.

By Monday morning both students were gone and were replaced by an advocate of their interests.The voice from the stage of Chambers asserted, “This country is going to be a racial battleground.” Perhaps the speaker should have arrived a day earlier. President D. G. Martin last week publicly endorsed L. Richardson Preyer as his favorite in the Democratic primary for governor of the state. Martin made his endorsement on a special 45-second television film made for Preyer’s campaign. “It is my conviction,” Martin said on the film, “that Richardson Preyer’s concrete proposals for economy in government and improvements of education, transportation, industry, agriculture and conservation will assure North Carolina's continued leadership in the South in the years ahead.”

L. RICHARDSON PREYER

Martin said that his action was as an individual, not as president of the college. “I suppose my knowledge of the candidate and my observation of his performance in other responsibilities were reasons for the endorsement.” He said that he did not personally know Dan K. Moore or I. Beverly Lake, the other two major gubernatorial candidates. He added that they were not connected in any way in which he knew with the college. Preyer’s family has a long history of generosity in dealing with Davidson, but Martin said that the fact had no bearing on his support. Preyer is a member on his mother’s side of the powerful Richardson family, founders of the Vick Chemical Company which has grown into $113 million Richardson-Merrill, Inc. The Richardson Foundation, established in 1935 in memory of Davidson alumnus Lunsford Richardson, has given large amounts to Davidson. Major gifts include:

—The athletic field and football stadium
—A challenge grant of $425,000 for six endowed professorships, made in early 1961. The newest dormitory on campus was named in recognition of this gift.
—Support of the Richardson Scholarship Program which brings each year to Davidson students from foreign lands for a year's study. The foundation now spends about $1500 on each of the scholars. One year there were 16 of these scholars on campus.

Preyer, himself a graduate of Princeton, is a member of the Board of Visitors. He has three brothers who are Davidson alumni. During the last gubernatorial campaign, Martin made no endorsements.

But May Hurt Duke Endowment

“It’s simply a question of eroding the state's tax base. Common sense says if they make a profit, then they should pay taxes and be made to compete on an equal basis.” Moore's Mecklenburg County campaign manager, Jake Wade, Jr., explained his candidate's stand on rural electrification. It coincides almost perfectly with W. McGuire’s opinions. McGuire, president of Duke Power, also an alumnus of the school with two sons of his own now here, refuted the statement of the Preyer Camp that his company was opposed outright to that candidate. “We don't make it a practice to have a company candidate,” he said. “Personally I am for Dan Moore,” he added. “He has been a good friend of mine for a long time. We grew too far apart.” He then explained his company’s policy on rural electrification companies. “Some people think that private utility companies are in favor of destroying all rural electrification. That is not the case at all. We do maintain, however, that if these co-operatives serve customers that private utilities can serve, they should pay like all profit-making companies and borrow money on the open market, instead of at two percent from the government.”

Martin evidently agrees. He said in March, “Over the years, Davidson's constant benefit from the Duke Endowment has been by far the largest single financial factor in the development of the college.” Since 1924, the endowment has given Davidson...

“Judge Moore sees a place in our economy for both rural electrification co-operatives and for private (utility) companies,” he said. “He feels that where the rural co-ops are staying within their areas and not competing with private investment companies, then they should get assistance from the government. But,” he added, “I think he feels that when they compete for a profit with private companies, they should compete on an equal basis, borrowing money at the usual levels and paying a fair tax to the state.”

When rural electric co-operatives, aided by privileges given them by the government, compete with Duke Power, then they cut the profit of one of Davidson’s most consistent supporters. For the competition of the privileged co-ops, which limits the Duke Endowment, also limits indirectly Davidson's income.

Quips And Cranks For '64 Given Out

Distribution of the 1964 Quips and Cranks began Tuesday. Edited by John Baum, the yearbook's theme is “The Davidson Experience.” (See Review on Page Two) Combining copy edited by Skip Jones with photographs by Marty Lafferty, Cary Eaton and Marc Simpson, it is the story of a student who “came to etch in my book of life marks from the experience called college.” The theme for next year's 1965 Quips and Cranks, to be edited by Zach Long, will be the relationship of the student to his world and the contributions that he makes to it. The annual will be divided into class sections, and the informality of the faculty and activities sections will be retained. A few positions on the staff are still open.

Martin Endorses Preyer For Gubernatorial Post...

P. O. Boxes Currently Being Re-let

Postmaster William B. Mayhew has asked that all Davidson students returning next year reserve their post office boxes. The cost for the entire year is $3.60. Students are also asked to give their forwarding address in order to receive all mail sent here during the summer. Another form is required for second class publications. Students are urged to attend to this matter promptly, since it takes approximately four weeks for the publishers to make the necessary changes.

Outstanding Cadets Gain Recognition; Wheaton Bows Out

Military Honors were awarded to the outstanding ROTC cadets of the past semester Tuesday. In addition, Scabbard and Blade tapped five new members, and Lt. Col. Paul R. Wheaton, in his last appearance with the corps, received a commendation for meritorious service. Receiving the Department of the Army Superior Cadet Decoration were MS-IV Cadet Col. Tommy Stafford, MS-III Cadet Jim Ferguson, MS-II Cadet Billy Clark, and MS-I Cadet Steve Bales. Cadet Col. Haynes Kelly received two awards: the Third U.S. Army award for Meritorious Leadership Achievement “for continuous leadership development throughout his ROTC career” and also the Reserve Officers Association Medal for having demonstrated the most outstanding qualities of leadership at ROTC summer camp. Other cadets receiving awards were Cadet Capt. “Butch” Covington for outstanding performance as Company Commander; Cadet 2nd Lt. Billy Wilkins for best platoon leader; Cadet Capt. Howard Arbuckle for spirit of service and citizenship; and Cadet Steve Ramsburgh for leadership advancing the Davidson ROTC standing. MS-II Cadet Bill Alexander and MS-I Cadet David Purnell were awarded, respectively, the Daniel B. Woods Medal and the American Legion Medal for outstanding qualities of leadership. Cadet Charlie Turner was selected Outstanding Band Cadet, and Cadet David Powell the Outstanding Honor Guard Cadet. Five cadets, Glenn Hanes, Lyle Blalock, Charlie Marshall, Bruce Swain and Mike Thurman, were tapped for membership in Scabbard and Blade, military honorary society for ROTC cadets. Lt. Col. Wheaton was also presented a citation for his “enthusiasm, organization, and leadership” and his service to the cadet corps during his tenure as Professor of Military Science and Tactics at Davidson. The citation stated “... it would be our good fortune to serve under him again.” Col. Wheaton will assume duty in South Vietnam next month.

THESE PLANS PORTRAY the basic modifications to the basement level of the Student Union as part of the overall program for Union remodeling. Comprised mostly of realignments in the snack bar and dining area, the work is scheduled to be completed by early September at a cost of about $200,000.