THE DAVIDSONIAN is issuing this special two-page pre-holiday edition, continuing a policy begun last spring. Prior to that time, no
newspaper was published during the week immediately prior to vacations.

VOL. LIV.

President D. Grier Martin said, “The committee was impressed with the large number of applications for this position and with
the quality of a sizable number of the candidates.” Athletic Director Tom Scott estimated the number of applications at 75.
“We’ve cut it considerably,” he stated, but he hastened to add that there were still too many to bring them
all down for interviews during the Christmas holidays. “We would like to have a coach by the first of the
year. We may not be able to do it.” He pointed out, “We need to get somebody to start recruiting
and to prepare for spring practice.”

Six men form the committee that is screening the applications. There are representatives from the Trustees, the alumni, the faculty,
the administration, and the student body. Dr. Martin and Dr. Scott are the representatives from the administration. Dr. Thomas Sparrow
speaks from the Trustees; Dick O’Hair, president of the Wildcat Club, for the Alumni. Will Jackson is representing the student
body.

“The function of this committee,” said Martin, “is to give consideration to all of those persons who have applied or
who have been recommended and to choose the person who apparently is best qualified for the position and to recommend
this person for the appointment. The committee has not yet made any choice of a coach to me for presentation
to the Athletic Committee of the Trustees for its approval.”

Whomever the committee recommends will be considered by the Athletic Committee of the Trustees. If the man meets with their
approval, he will be considered by the Board of Trustees at their annual meeting this spring. In order to put
the new coach to work as soon as possible, he will be hired on the recommendation of the screening committee.
“It would be my belief,” stated President Martin, “that the Athletic Committee of the Trustees will approve the recommendation of
the committee and that final approval will be given to the recommendation by the Trustees.” Dr. Scott elaborated, saying, “It
would be pretty embarrassing if the Trustees didn’t approve him because he would already be on the payroll.”

75 Applicants Seek Head Football Post

Selection of a new head football coach began Monday night with a special committee scrutinizing a “surprisingly high number” of
applications for the position.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

MAJ. GEN. HOWARD SNYDER, XII Corps Commander, paid a formal visit to the Davidson ROTC Tuesday. He inspected the ROTC
department, trooped the line, and presented awards to the outstanding cadets during his stay. (Staff Photo by Thel)

Alumni European Tour Draws Early Attention

“The early response to our plans for the proposed alumni-chorus jet flight to Europe has been quite encouraging,” says William
C. Bondurant, director of alumni activities. In the past ten days, Bondurant has received indications of interest from approximately 40
alumni who wish to take advantage of the special low travel price. Having mailed out over 14,000 pamphlets on the
trip, he expects to hear from many more alumni during the Christmas holidays.

The $310 first-class round trip will begin on June 13. A Boeing 707 jet will fly from Charlotte directly to
London and Paris; it will return by way of New York City to Charlotte on July 11. In order to
secure such a low flight rate, Bondurant needs 94 persons besides the 37 members of the Male Chorus. He is
presently trying to encourage the Class of '40 and the Class of '55 to have a special reunion on board
the plane.

The college is not arranging a land tour for the entire group. Rather, the accompanying alumni and their immediate families
will be free to go wherever they wish, or they can follow the itinerary of the chorus. Five or six
Davidson students are now planning to take advantage of this special opportunity. Bondurant points out that by living in youth
hostels, a student could get by on only $110 for expenses; thus, he would pay $500 for the 28-day tour
and return in time to get a summer job, thereby paying for his trip. Bondurant enthusiastically added, “It would be
a wonderful graduation present for a senior to give himself.” Any interested student or alumnus is encouraged to contact Bondurant
as soon as possible, especially since the early response has been so good.

Religious Evaluation Is Planned

Religious life among Davidson students will be scrutinized in the months ahead by the Faculty Religious Life Committee, Chaplain Will
Terry revealed yesterday. The general religious life of the college—including the present vespers policy and student religious attitudes—will be examined
during the study, Terry said. Results of the study will be submitted to the faculty by the committee, which can
only make recommendations.

Meeting Wednesday, the committee heard a request from petitioners concerned with the Roman Catholic students who are required to attend
Protestant services contrary to their church's dictates. Headed by Hobs Allan, the petitioners requested permission to fulfill their vespers requirement
by attending mass at one of the Catholic churches in Charlotte, Mooresville, or Concord. The faculty committee deferred action on
the specific request until a study of the entire religious situation could be completed. The committee will study the religious
policies of the last two years and recommend whatever changes of policy it deems necessary. Morning church in Davidson as
a substitute for evening vespers at the College Church has been an experimental project and will be reexamined by the
committee before final action is taken.

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1964

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

SPECIAL HOLIDAY EDITION NUMBER THIRTEEN

Students’ Vote Defeats ‘Ambiguous’ Proposal

New Alternative Slated For Post-Holiday Vote

Students voted 383 to 87 against one proposed drinking rule change today while another, more precisely worded amendment to the
Student Body Constitution lay on the table awaiting presentation in a post-holiday referendum. The resounding rejection of the amendment was
prompted by the presentation of the newer and more clearly worded proposal Tuesday. The defeated amendment was originally set forth
by Student Council but lost the support of that body Monday night. At that time, Council decided unanimously to cast
its lot with the more specific proposal which now awaits a student body referendum.

The new amendment would be added at the end of Section 2, Article VIII of the Student Body Constitution, and
would read as follows: “For the purpose of enforcing this regulation with specific regard to the possession of alcoholic liquors,
the trunks of automobiles shall not be covered by the term ‘campus’.”

The Council decided to propose the new amendment to avoid what President Will Jackson called “the absurd loopholes and interpretative
weaknesses” of the original proposal. In conjunction with the newly proposed amendment, the Council adopted a new declaration of policy
in which the Council and the Honor Court are pledged “to earnestly support and enforce the provisions” of Section 2,
Article VIII of the Constitution, even to the extent of “searching dormitory rooms or fraternity houses.” According to Jackson, the
new policy would give the two bodies “the actual power to search.” If a member suspected that liquor was being
kept in a room, “this suspicion would entail notifying someone else (another member) for the sake of clarification and surety”
before a search would be made.

In an effort to further clarify the newly proposed amendment, the Council entered into a lively discussion as to the
exact definition of the term “trunk” contained in the new rule. At first, Jackson contended that the Council should make
some definite statement concerning what would be viewed as a “legal” trunk and what would not. Bill Council responded by
suggesting that no precise definition of trunk be formulated in order that the Council might decide this issue if a
“test case” came up.

Council Tables Stand On Professor’s Oath

“Dean (Frontis W.) Johnson and (Chaplain) Will Terry are of the opinion that this is a legitimate area for student
concern,” said Fred Sackett Monday as he reminded Student Council of its decision made earlier this fall to take a
stand on the Faculty oath. At that time, there had been some debate as to whether or not it was
the Council's place to take such a stand. Sackett suggested that a committee be set up for relating the Councilto
various other campus organizations in an effort to investigate and prepare a statement as to the Council's position on the
loyalty oath. He thought that this could be accomplished by March. Bill Council, however, felt that the motion should be
tabled pending an investigation to determine whether or not the Council’s stand might interfere with the plans of the faculty
or administration in this field. The Council decided that his suggestion was advisable and planned the investigation. A unanimous vote
to propose a new amendment to the drinking rule for approval by the Student Body terminated the main item of
business at the Student Council's weekly meeting Monday night. Essentially, the new amendment would make automobile trunks “off campus” with
respect to the possession of alcoholic beverages on college property. Jackson emphasized, however, that this did not permit drinking in
one’s car trunk. He went on to have the Council make it its policy to rigorously enforce the drinking rule
under the new amendment. Also with regard to enforcement, he suggested that the Honor Court be advised to make a
concise definition of “automobile trunk” so as to prevent confusion. Don Davidson, David Walker, and Charlie Marshall missed the meeting.

In the discussion which ensued, numerous suggestions for a definition of “trunk” were put forward. Fred Sackett felt that “a
covered area outside the passenger area” would be sufficient. Tom Frist thought that “any compartment over a stated size” would
adequately define “trunk” while David Powell felt that “a trunk-like place would be O.K.”

STATION WAGONS

Tommy Heffner suggested that “vehicles without conventional automobile trunks” not be considered as having off-campus trunks. John Barrow moved that
“station wagons not be considered as legal places for alcohol.” As none of these proposals was satisfactory to enough Council
members to ensure its passage, President Jackson finally suggested that the interpretation of “trunk” be left to the Honor Court.
This proposal was generally agreed to by the Council, and Jackson afterwards expressed his hope that the Honor Court would
formulate a statement of what “trunk” would be defined as before the student body votes on the new amendment after
Christmas.

In an effort to explain the Council's reason for asking that the original amendment be rejected in order that the
new one might be adopted, Jackson appeared before the student body on Monday and Tuesday in what he termed “the
Council's stimulating Artist Series lectures.”

(Continued on Back Page)

Dean Visits Campus, Discusses Activities

Dean Richard C. Gilman of Carleton College, Northfield, Minn., visited the Davidson campus this week. A graduate of Dartmouth College
and Boston University, Gilman has taught at Dartmouth, Colby College in Maine, and Carleton. He served from 1956 to 1960
as the executive director of the National Council on Religious Higher Education in New Haven, Conn. He is a member
of the executive committee of the Minnesota Private College Council and a trustee of the American Universities Field Staff.

After his arrival on Tuesday, Gilman met with President D. Grier Martin and with Dean of the Faculty Frontis W.
Johnston. That evening he attended the Davidson-VMI basketball game. Wednesday morning he met with a group of students for breakfast
and later in the morning talked with members of the faculty and the administration. At various times during his visit,
Gilman saw the Cunningham Fine Arts Center, the Dana building, the college church, and the faculty housing subdivisions. Director of
Public Relations and Development Robert J. Sailstad said Wednesday that Carleton College is “in many respects like Davidson.” It has
had problems with drinking rules and class attendance rules. It is small, having a student body of 1350 students. Sailstad
called Gilman's visit and the resultant comparing of notes “a rewarding experience.”

ALL-AMERICA WILLIE SOMERSET Leads Duquesne Into Charlotte Invitational Tournament

TOURNEY COMING UP

Cats Face Buckeyes On Coliseum Court

By TOM COOK Davidsonian Sports Writer

Ohio State’s Buckeyes—yearning revenge for a 95-73 upset last year ending a 50-game, home-court winning streak—will grapple with the Wildcats
Saturday night on Davidson’s adopted home court, the Charlotte Coliseum. Coach Fred Taylor will be fielding a team which has
six returning lettermen, including standout guard Dick Ricketts who averaged 14 points last year. Gone from last year's team which
compiled a 16-8 record is All-American Gary Bradds, who has been severely missed. Ohio State's record so far this year
is 4-1, including an early season loss to nationally-ranked St. Louis. They have beaten South Dakota, Texas Christian, Houston, and
Butler. Ohio State will match the Wildcats in height with 6-5 and 6-6 forwards Ron Sepia and Bob Dove, and
6-8 center James Shaffer. Sophomore Al Rowley is the fifth starter for the Buckeyes.

CAVALIER CLASH

Tuesday night at the Charlotte Coliseum, the Cats face Virginia, who fell 64-62 last year, and so far have a
losing record. Virginia will field an experienced team with four returning lettermen starting. The majority of the Cavalier squad, though,
are sophomores.

The Charlotte Invitational Tournament will feature newcomers Alabama, Duquesne, and Ohio Universities, along with defending champion Davidson. All three have
3-1 records thus far. Alabama returns nine lettermen from a 14-12 season last year. Forward Bob Andrews, 6-5, has been
the Crimson Tide's big gun this year, along with 6-4 guard Charlie Perry. Andrews averaged 14.5 points per game last
year and Perry averaged 13.2.

The first game of the tournament will feature Duquesne and Ohio. Duquesne is built around 5-10 guard Willie Somerset, who
was named to the all-time Duquesne team while still a junior. His single-game record of 47 points and subsequent performances
won him a position on the UPI Little All-America team (6-ft. and under), All-East, and UPI honorable mention All-America.

HILT HEADS

Ohio University last year beat Kentucky and went to the finals of the NCAA Mid East Regionals before losing to
Michigan. Leader of this year’s team has been forward Don Hilt, who averaged 14.6 points per game last year along
with 10.4 rebounds last year. Hilt’s field goal percentage was an outstanding 51.4 percent.

(Continued on Back Page)

DICK RICKETTS Ohio State Captain
