CAMPUS DIRECTORY (See Pages Four and Five)

VOL. LIV

Goldwater Victorious In Close Student Vote

Students Cast Ballots in Record Numbers

358 students gave Senator Barry Goldwater a 24-vote advantage over President Lyndon B. Johnson in a DAVIDSONIAN poll conducted in chapel on Tuesday. Goldwater captured 358 (51.0 percent) votes, and Johnson won 334 (47.6 percent). Ten students indicated no choice.

With 702 students voting, the poll represents the largest balloting by Davidson students in recent years. In this survey, Goldwater won the support of the majority of Southern students, and Johnson won that of the non-Southern students.

The 559 students voting from the 11 Southern states provided Goldwater a margin of 36 votes over Johnson. The vote from this group was 263 for the President, 296 for the hopeful from Arizona. Non-Southern students who voted, however, gave a lead of 12 votes to Johnson. There were 133 non-Southern students who voted, of the 702 votes cast.

“FRONTLASH”

The ‘frontlash” vote (made up of declared Republicans who are voting Democratic in this election) equalled closely the “backlash” vote (traditional Democrats going Republican); 54 Democrats voted for Goldwater, and 51 Republicans voted for Johnson. Among Southerners, however, the gap was larger. There were 52 Democrats who voted for Goldwater and 38 Republicans who voted for Johnson. Apparently, the “frontlash” occurs among both Southerners and non-Southerners; on the other hand, all but two of the votes evincing “backlash” were from the South.

A breakdown of the vote by classes shows that seniors favored Johnson over Goldwater by 10 votes. Juniors delivered the same verdict, giving Johnson 9 votes over Goldwater.

67 & ‘68 FOR AuH20

Sophomores and freshmen, however, approved Goldwater by margins of 23 and 26 votes, respectively. Special students participating supported Johnson unanimously.

Five Southern states — North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Virginia, and Florida — had enough representation in the balloting to sanction taking a closer look at the distribution of vote within their borders. In North Carolina, Johnson won by a margin of 18 votes, out of a total vote of 250 students. 29 Independents cast their vote for Goldwater, 24 for Johnson. 13 Republicans switched to Johnson, 23 Democrats switched to Goldwater. From these two groups — the Independents and the “crossovers” — Goldwater won a surplus of 15 votes. But this surplus was cancelled by the “pure” Democratic vote (97 Democrats for Johnson) whose force the “pure” Republican vote (65 for Goldwater) could not meet. It was the “pure” Democrats who brought North Carolina into Johnson’s camp.

South Carolina is a Goldwater state, if the DAVIDSONIAN poll mirrors the true situation. Its representatives gave Goldwater almost two-and-one-half times the vote they gave Johnson. The vote was 61-21. It is also a non-Democratic State. Of the 72 people voting from the state, 35 South Carolinians claimed the Republican for their standard-bearer, and 25 travelled the Independent road. Only 12 were avowed Democrats, and two of these would have voted for Goldwater on Tuesday.

YANG-YIN IN GEORGIA

Representatives from Georgia, the state which has voted Democratic in every national election in modern times, may be experiencing a yang-yin kind of political struggle. 34 voted for Johnson, 34 for Goldwater. Virginia voted 29-25 in favor of Goldwater, and Florida voted 34-21 for the same candidate.

Some students who did not have an opportunity to express themselves fully by making checkmarks on their ballots felt called to offer personal sentiments. One Democrat who voted for Johnson wrote, “If there is a choice between a crackpot and a crook, I will take the crook.” An Independent voter who supported Goldwater demanded, “Give the government back to the people and take it away from the wheelers and dealers!”

INITIATES ‘GREAT ISSUES’

Triffin Calls For Changes In International Banking

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

In the first lecture of the YMCA Great Issues Program for this year, renowned Yale economist Dr. Robert Triffin charged that today’s international monetary system is anachronistic and should be completely revamped. The series, entitled “Political Campaign: 1964” is planned by the Y to present the pro and con discussions of some of the campaign issues, instead of the personalities of the candidates. Speakers will be political scientists, nationally-known authors, economists and office-holding politicians, including Governor George Wallace of Alabama.

Dr. Triffin explained the reasons for his opinion and outlined ways to remedy the situation. He further explained how really grave a situation this has become and that it has been under international discussion for the past five years — the “Triffin plan” being one of the feasible remedies under consideration.

NOT ENOUGH GOLD

The problem, stated Dr. Triffin, is simply that gold supplies in the world today are not adequate to provide a basis for the world’s moneys. This situation creates a very tedious balance in international banking and marketing — a balance that some future crisis might easily upset. Such an event would ruin not only the economy of the country or countries directly involved, but could drastically affect the world’s monetary transactions.

This situation is to a large degree a result of events during and after World War II. At that time many European countries, suffering from somewhat of an inflation, exported much of their capital to the U.S., the dollar being such a solid form of exchange at the time. As a result, the value of this imported, or “hot” money, went down, while the value of the much-demanded dollar steadily rose. After the war Europe began to experience a new “boom” economy, while the U.S. fought off recession, depression, and the same investors who put their capital in the U.S. before the war now began drawing it out in large quantities. This has gone on to such a degree that whereas the reserves of the U.S. were $20 billion in 1949, they dropped to $16 billion in 1957, and are only $13 billion at the present time. This represents a debt of $14 billion to the central bank in the last seven years. The situation does not look good.

DRASTIC REMEDIES

The remedies to this predicament, according to Dr. Triffin, are drastic and far from simple. His plan, touched on in chapel and expounded in the coffee hour following, is complicated but seems to be very feasible. First of all, the interest rates in Europe must be lowered and those in the U.S. must be raised, thus keeping any more dollars from leaving the U.S. Also the national reserves must grow between 3% and 6% per year.

TEMPORARY PLAN

These, however, are more or less temporary measures which must be followed by much more drastic measures: namely the form of reserve should be changed from gold to some new form of security. The big question is what this new form of security should be. Dr. Triffin suggests gold-guaranteed deposits with the international banking fund.

The DAVIDSONIAN plans to conduct another poll one week before the Nov. 3 election. Also, the results of a faculty poll will be announced in the Oct. 9 issue of The DAVIDSONIAN.

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1964

HOMECOMING PLANS ANNOUNCED (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWO POLL

September 22

GOLDWATER
DEM. GOP IND.
Ala. 1 10
Ark. 1
Cal. 1
Colo.
Conn.
Del.
Dist. Col.
Fla. 9
Ga. 6
Ill.
Ind.
Iowa
Kansas
Ky.
La.
Md.
Mass.
Mich.
Minn.
Miss.
Mo.
Mont.
Neb.
Nev.
N. H.
N. J.
N. M.
N. Y.
N. C. 4 23
N. D.
Ohio
Okla.
Ore.
Pa.
R. I.
S. C. 2
Tenn.
Texas
Va. 6
Wash.
W. Va.
Wis.
Foreign

JOHNSON
GOP IND.
4 1
Dem.
3
we - rs) — = w MNAUMN NaAWN -_ -_ =a CANO W aw = = WD UF On & at ow &) = 4 preference and party preference by states. Omitted are 10 students who indicated no choice and 3 students who failed to give their state.)

Drinking Issue Again Rears Throbbing Head

The Student Council, in its “riot clause” Monday night meeting, deliberated for almost half an hour on the addition of one word to Article 8, Section 2 of the Student Body Regulations before Fred Sackett finally moved that the issue be tabled until the next meeting.

Hugh Allen, chairman of the Honor Court, made the suggestion that the word “ordinarily” be added to the section so as to read, “No student shall be guilty of drinking alcoholic liquors or having the same in his possession on the campus. Every student found guilty of violation of this regulation shall ordinarily be suspended from the College.” This liberalization of the drinking rule would allow the Honor Court the privilege of determining an alternate penalty to suspension.

Will Jackson, president of the Student Council, went over the need for more gym space, tennis courts, and other athletic facilities. After reviewing the Honor Code, the Student Council decided that it held no responsibility in the upholding or enforcement of faculty regulations and more specifically dormitory regulations.

The Student Council appointed members and other students to various committees on campus. The committees and appointees were: Financial Committee — John Barrow, Don Davidson, and Tom Frist; Magazine Committee — Bill Council; Student Activities Committee — Arnie Snider; Academic Scheduling Committee — Tommy Heffner; Non-Academic Scheduling Committee — Chuck Matthews; and Traffic Committee — Johnny Gresham. Other appointments were Religious Life Committee — Jesse Sims; Artist Series and Public Lecture Committee — John Curry and Paul Simpson; Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life Committee — Charlie Marshall; Athletic Committee — Bill Council and David Meschan.

Barrow Proposes Joe Jones Award

To encourage stricter enforcement of Freshman Regulations, the Freshman Court has announced that an award will be made to the upperclassman who turns in the greatest number of Freshmen eventually convicted by the Court. This distinction, known as the Joe Jones Award, was named for a Davidsonian who in recent years guided many a grateful Freshman to truth and happiness.

“It is hoped that upperclassmen will keep the Joe Jones tradition alive, if indeed they can,” quipped Freshman Advisor John Barrow, as he announced the award this week.

Terry Will Speak At Sunday Vesper

The Reverend Will H. Terry will deliver the vespers sermon this Sunday night, at which time the new Male Chorus will make its first appearance before the student body. Following the service, various members of the faculty will hold open house for students who wish to attend. There are 13 vespers remaining in the first semester. Again this year the Christmas Vespers may be taken as a free cut.

ALSO LAKE CAMPUS, STEAM PLANT

Union Tops Campus Changes

Davidson remodeled its College Union and completed the boat pier on the Lake Campus, among various improvements made by the college this summer. The renovation of the College Steam Plant is now in progress and is slated for completion by the end of November.

The work done in the Union, at a cost of $200,000, was Phase 2 of the Union expansion program, and consisted of a renovation of the downstairs dining area and of air-conditioning the whole building. The serving counters for the cafeteria and the snack bar were switched so that it is now possible to close off the re-decorated dining room for cleaning and perhaps for meals for special groups. The remodeling of the Union also resulted in five new dining rooms which are suitable for luncheon meetings. Several of the rooms are so constructed that any number of them may be joined together for large occasions.

The work done on the Lake Campus during the summer involved the placing of both railings and lights on the boat pier. The renovation of the Steam Plant will result in a new front for the building, as well as an improved steam generating system. According to Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze, the remodeling will provide “big changes in appearance and operation, and will give us one of the most modern and up-to-date steam plants of any institution our size.” The new front of the Plant, which will make room for a workshop, will be built over the area where the coal pits are now located. The addition will have windows all the way across and will be built of the same type of brick as the new Union wing, thus making its architecture compatible with that of other campus buildings.

The steam plant will also be modernized inside by the removal of two of the old steam generators and their replacement by new ones. Each of the new generators will have a capacity of 20,000 pounds of steam per hour, and with the remaining old generator will provide a total capacity of 60,000 pounds per hour. The new generators will run mainly on natural gas, with fuel oil as a standby. When the occasion arises, the change from gas to oil will take only minutes, preventing the time lag of four to five hours which occurred during the gas-to-coal switch under the old system.

The generators will have free-standing control panels with the latest safety devices and boiler efficiency indicators. A whole new water treatment system will also be installed to ready the water for use in the generators.

In addition to the major projects which have been completed and which are now being worked on, a Physiology Lab is being built in the attic of the Dana Science Building. The lab, which will be 80 feet long, is being built according to the needs of Professor Lammer's physiology class. In the same area as the lab will be fixed a place for the Biology Museum which is presently housed in the Martin Science Building.

For Scholarship

The 1963-64 scholastic averages of the Davidson Student Body reveal a slight decline in both the All Student Average and All Fraternity Average from their 1962-63 figures. The All Student Average was 1.713 in 1962-63, and fell to 1.698 in the ’63-64 session. The All Fraternity Average went from 1.700 in ’62-63 to 1.695 in ’63-64. A statistical comparison of the averages of the various classes and fraternities for the two years is as follows:

CLASS OR FRATERNITY 1963-64 1962-63
Senior Class 1.878 1.815
Junior Class 1.672 1.757
Sophomore Class 1.721 1.698
Freshman Class 1.545 1.645
Alpha Tau Omega 1.871 1.860
Beta Theta Pi 1.793 1.781
Sigma Chi 1.759 1.764
Pi Kappa Alpha 1.750 1.551
Sigma Phi Epsilon 1.724 1.630
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 1.717 1.716
Phi Delta Theta 1.679 1.642
Phi Gamma Delta 1.650 1.718
Kappa Sigma 1.645 1.611
Sigma Nu 1.639 1.672
Kappa Alpha 1.612 1.655
Pi Kappa Phi 1.571 1.655