PAGE SIX

TWO STUDENTS, ASST. DEAN Davidson Represented At Annual IFC Meeting

Bob Jones, Fred Sackett, and Rocky Walker are attending the 56th Annual Meeting of the National Interfraternity Conference in Cincinnati, Ohio, this weekend. There are approximately a thousand delegates at this meeting, representing 60 national fraternities, 350 institutions of higher learning, and 400 representatives of undergraduate collegiate interfraternity councils, plus college deans, student advisors, prominent educators, and business and professional leaders prominent in fraternity administration.

The theme of this year's conference is “Strengthening the College Fraternity System.” Gov. Mark O. Hatfield of Oregon, one of the nation's prominent Republican political figures, will deliver the keynote address at the concluding banquet tomorrow. Speaking at the opening general session today is Dr. David D. Henry, president of the University of Illinois. The luncheon speaker today is Dr. Noah N. Langdale, president of Georgia State College, who will be a chapel speaker at Davidson on Dec. 17.

Bob Jones, Assistant Dean of Students, is attending several separate gatherings of college deans during the conference. “The value of these meetings,” said Jones, “is that I will have a chance to meet other college deans all over the country to discuss the fraternity situation, and I hope to find out what various fraternities over the nation are doing and can do to contribute to college life.” Jones also added, “The meeting will give me the opportunity to make contact with various national and local fraternity officers, represented at Davidson, and to gain some general knowledge of the fraternity world.”

Fred Sackett, secretary of the Davidson IFC, is the delegate from Davidson to the conference, and Rocky Walker is Davidson's alternate delegate. Sackett has been chosen as one of the 20 undergraduate delegates to be a convention leader. In this capacity, he will lead discussion groups and oversee the business of the conference. Sackett said, “My discussion topics ‘How Do Fraternities Fit into the Basic Philosophy of Universities?’ and ‘The Role of the Interfraternity Council in Guiding Fraternities.’ were especially requested in view of the application of these topics to the current fraternity discussions at Davidson.”

In addition to leading discussions, Sackett and alternate, Rocky Walker, plan to hand out questionnaires to representatives of various colleges and universities which are to be filled out and returned to Davidson. “These questionnaires are intended to find out about the role of the fraternity system in social life, rush and rush regulations, and the function of various interfraternity councils. By the use of these questionnaires and by making direct contact with fraternity representatives from all over the country, we hope to gain information which can be presented to the Student Council committee studying social life at Davidson,” Sackett added.

“Awards will be given to various interfraternity councils at this conference, similar to the award won in 1961 by the Davidson College IFC,” remarked Jones. This award was presented to Davidson in 1961 for having the best interfraternity council in the nation in a school having less than 15 fraternities on campus. Sackett commented, “Because of the role the Davidson IFC has in this conference, and by the role the IFC plays this year in campus social life, we hope to be able to win the Ironmans Trophy next year.” This trophy is presented to the best interfraternity council in the nation.

Sigma Nu Retains Blood Drive Title

The Sigma Nus retained their blood drive contest lead as the fall blood drive last Monday and Tuesday netted 300 pints of blood. This drive proved to be the most successful ever according to statistics released by the ROTC department. An ROTC department spokesman commented, “This substantial increase in blood donation reflects a more conscientious effort on the part of the students.” The blood drive held during last spring yielded 268 pints. There were 75 students willing but unable to give blood because of recent illness and 30 students who were eliminated because of athletic excuses. Following the Sigma Nus in competition were the Phi Gams, the Sig Eps, the ATO's and the Pi Kapps respectively.

By TIM ROTHERMEL Davidsonian Staff Writer

World Travel Reactions (Continued from Page 3)

The exhibition was highlighted by a room with a stereo sound recorder playing American jazz, a television camera which permitted onlookers to see themselves alive on the screen at that moment, and an electrically controlled color map of the world indicating Communist countries of the world having relations with East Germany, countries who in part favor Communism and probable countries who will turn toward “a greater humanity in Communism.” Cuba, the “first country to go Communist in America” was extremely well-lighted, very large and almost setting in the middle of Florida.

Poland finds herself in that most precarious geographic position of separating Asia from Europe and retaining excellent access to the sea. Before World War II, Poland was fascist, and drained completely by an aristocracy which boasted even as late as August, 1939 that “our weakness is our strong point—Germany does not want and will not take a weak poor country.” Despising Germans long before they crossed the border and fearing just as much the new economic reform in Russia (Communism), the Poles caught destruction from both sides and caught it heavily. After the war, 85 per cent of most Polish cities lay in waste and rubble and millions of Poles had died fighting against Germans and Russians. As the people wandered back to Warsaw they worked for months passing stones hand-by-hand. Today Warsaw is a gleaming city of new and modern business buildings, apartment houses, improved bridges and highways, but the luxuries have not replaced the essentials, and will not for a long time. Poland has recovered remarkably well, slowing down whenever freedom was threatened from the East, and still is determined to remain self-governed or not to remain at all. The nation is very young and dedicated to building “a country not based on competition, but rather on sound planning.”

Prague, Czechoslovakia, seems like morning after leaving night in Poland. Prague is a beautiful city built on rolling hills situated on the Elbe River with a magnificent 17th century castle overlooking the entire city and numerous medieval spires dotting the sky-line. The city was virtually untouched by Nazi destruction but well acquainted with terror, oppression, and extermination. In contrast with Warsaw, there were numerous excellent restaurants, only four in Warsaw; many hotels, only five in Warsaw; many entertainment gimmicks, in Warsaw a few cinemas; automatic dairy bars with an honest milkshake, a slight semblance is in Warsaw; new cars on the streets, horse drawn wagons operated in the streets of Warsaw as well as on the highways; jewelry stores and art decoration galleries. Warsaw had many bookstores but no such extravagant jewelry and art shops. The people in Prague were well-dressed and dashing even on Sunday all over downtown buying non-essential goods, just spending money. At first glance it looks like pure free capitalism; yet the Czechs claim if you live in Prague you would then know that it just isn’t what it seems to be. The Czech people worked extremely hard following the war and built up their own well-to-do and promising nation; however, in 1948, the Russians came in to stay. Many freedoms do not exist today; the most notable is religious expression. In Poland all churches are filled on Sundays with devout Catholics, but in Czechoslovakia it is “desired by the Party Officials” that no one attend church, and the churches are empty. Taxes, business restrictions and licenses, quotas, wages and profit are controlled below the surface by Party officials.

FINEST STEAKS SERVED ANYWHERE Swia’s Steak Charcoal House 1800 West Morehead Street Charlotte, N. C. Phone ED 2-2414

Ticket Hours — 9:00 A. M. to 5:00 P. M. Now Bus Station and THE DAVIDSONIAN

TAYLOR BLACKWELL Prepares for Rush Season Basketball Advertising Strains Publicity Office

Big time basketball has had its effect on the Davidson scene and in particular on the schedule of publicity director, Taylor Blackwell. “Of course, our office has encountered problems,” said Blackwell last week. “But I think we hit our peak last year. We have been very pleased with the cooperation of the Charlotte community and the administration in helping us cope with the more personal attention that we need.”

Kappa Sigs Honored

Two Kappa Sigma seniors, Jim Beaseley and Charles (Buddy) DuBose, were awarded certificates of merit for leadership and scholastic achievement byThe national fraternity this week. DuBose’s certificate accompanied the $150 senior award of the Scholarship and Leadership Awards Commission of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity. Beaseley, from Miami Beach, is a pre-law student majoring in history. A Dean’s List student, he is Kappa Sigma treasurer and former sports writer for THE DAVIDSONIAN. A Charlotte resident, DuBose is also a pre-law student majoring in history. He has served as secretary of the IMAC and is treasurer of Scabbard and Blade. He has held the positions of rush chairman and house manager in his fraternity.

Freshman Council Picks Irons, Monk

Tom Irons and Paul Monk were elected president and secretary of the Freshman Council Thursday night. Elections in the Freshman Council were delayed until after mid-semester grades were posted. Ten of twenty-two council members met the C-plus academic average qualification requirements. Irons, from Greenville, N.C., is captain of the freshman swimming team and serves as president of the Kappa Alpha pledge class. Also a member of the swimming team, Monk, a native of Kensington, Md., is active in drama and the Alpha Tau Omega pledge class.

Hub Office M. Till 9:00 P.M.

WELCOME WILDCATS! Before the Game Meet and Eat at Howard Johnson's Restaurant ‘Landmark for Hungry Americans’ 3314 N. Independence Blvd. Charlotte

Prize-Winning Poet Will Visit Monday

Alan Dugan, Yale University's Younger Poet for 1962, will visit Davidson on Monday, Dec. 7, courtesy of the North Carolina Poetry Circuit, Phi Literary Society, and Sigma Upsilon. Yale's Younger Poet Series publishes only first volumes of poets under forty, selected by the series’ editor, formerly W. H. Auden, now Dudley Fitts. Dugan’s (pronounced Duggan) first publication by Yale, in 1961, netted him the Pulitzer Prize for poetry, the National Book Award, and the Prix de Rome. His verse includes such titles as, ‘For Masturbation’; ‘On Breeding, from Plutarch’; and ‘On Trees: Secular Metamorphosis of Joyce Kilmer’s ‘Trees.’’ All of these poems are included in his second volume, Poems 2, available in the student store for $1.45. Highly acclaimed by critics in literary journals, Dugan will serve up some of his poetry for Davidson students to appreciate, analyze, and criticize. He will be at selected fraternities for lunch and supper. At 1:40 p.m., he will lecture in Dr. Frank Bliss’ modern poetry class. From 7:30 to 8:15, Dugan will read his poetry in the Morrison Room of the Union, adjourning to the private dining room afterward for coffee and discussion.

Free Delivery Jackson's Cleaners Quick Service ... ... No Extra Cost Bring Your Cleaning And Shirts OR Contact Us 224 DUKE Charlie Smith Ed Rude

This year’s basketball advertising campaign, according to the publicity director, is being run a little differently than last year’s. “Our advertising was more game by game last year,” he noted. “This year we are directing our efforts more to season ticket sales.” The altered approach seems to be working successfully. While a larger percentage of total volume has been in season tickets, the overall sales figures are far ahead of last year's. Said Blackwell, “Our campaign is to make sure that no one fails to know last year's record.” As far as material to national publications is concerned, he reported that this was about the same as last year. “I have no complaints about last year's reception; we had something to prove nationally. As for Sports Illustrated type features, there’s not much more you can do than be ready for such breaks.” Blackwell noted the use his office has made of college business and mailing equipment and the good job of the secretarial staff. “We are close to the point that we are doing a creditable job but help is still needed,” he said. Continuing on the same line, he pointed out, “I don’t know what should be Davidson's answer. Sports information does deserve as much staff attention as most other schools give it. Basketball can be hurt on public support if this job fails through.”

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1964

DCRC Outlines Plan To Build Community

By DAVID COFFEY Davidsonian Staff Writer

“Our basic overall plan now is to help the Negro community become a real community where the people are truly working to help themselves,” explained Calvin Zon, president of the re-oriented Davidson Civil Rights Committee. “As it is now, the Davidson community is fragmented. We are now concerned with the entire range of economic, housing, and educational problems.” The DCRC was formed in the fall of 1963, primarily by faculty and students. The group is now attempting to place more and more responsibility on the Negro community. “This shift across the tracks will avoid the development of a paternalistic attitude on the part of the white community,” Zon hopes. “One of our basic problems has been developing leaders in the Negro community,” he continued. “The most likely leaders in the past have been residents of Charlotte who have held jobs here. Their place of residence precludes their becoming leaders here.” The civil rights group worked to increase voter registration and to enlarge the vote of the Negro community in the recent election. They urged Negroes to vote for Johnson-Humphrey, for Bob Scott as Lieutenant-Governor, and for Dr. William James for congressman. They also urged support of the 100 million dollar school bond issue. Zon says, “The results are hard to judge, but we believe the vote turnout was greater than it would have been if we had not acted.” The DCRC is also planning to conduct a raffle for a color television set. Proceeds will be used to open a laundromat in Davidson. “Currently, the Negroes here have to go to Charlotte to wash their clothes since the laundromat in Cornelius is segregated,” Zon says. Consideration is also being given to the housing problem in Davidson. Most usable land in the immediate area is owned by a few local citizens or has been purchased by the College or the Duke Power Company for future expansion. “It is difficult for a Negro to find a place to build,” Zon contends. “Our concern is primarily the land shortage, and not necessarily any racial discrimination in real estate sales.”

Fraternities Give To United Appeal

The United Appeal drive closed recently netting approximately eight times as much as last year’s drive, according to Walter Edgar, spokesman for Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, the sponsoring organization. The amount collected, $120.05, equaled last year's goal. The drive this year was carried out with a different approach from last year. The appeal was made through the fraternities and Lingle Manor rather than through a door-to-door effort. The social organizations contributing were Betas, Kappa Sigs, Phi Gams, Pi Kapps, Pikas, Sigma Nus, Sig Eps, SAEs, Sigma Chis, and Lingle Manor. Also, a small amount was contributed by individuals through the collection bucket in the Union.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.C.

KELLER'S DOGWOOD MOTEL 21 By-Pass Davidson, N.C.

Famous Make Clothes for the Collegian

ATTENTION STUDENTS—If you are stumped on what to give your girl for Christmas, visit our ladies department for excellent ideas.

Go, CATS, GO!

Now Fully Fashioned by LORD JEFF

The same superlative 100% imported lamb's wool you've enjoyed before—with the added ease and fit only full fashioning can impart. Your choice of luxurious colors.

We have looked forward excitedly to this basketball season and we are behind you all the way for even a better season this year. We are proud to be Davidson Alumni for many reasons; but you are giving us an unusually fine thrill on being a backer of one of the nation’s finest basketball teams. Good Luck, Cats!

John Mack & Son CLOTHING HOUSE OF FAMOUS BRANDS Mooresville Charge Accounts Invited