FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1964

Side Lights | BY RICK LOWERY

SC PLAYER OF THE YEAR AND MORE PERHAPS...

Fred Hetzel will try out for the Olympics. Friday, in a special meeting of the Executive Committee, Hetzel was given official permission to compete in next fall’s games. The academic arrangements necessary to allow Hetzel to play next fall were considerable; the task of making the team will be considerable also. The Olympic Committee invites 30 college basketball players from at-large to try out for the team. Seven juniors were asked; Hetzel is one. Try-outs begin in March at Kansas City and include practice sessions and exhibition games. The next round of try-outs then moves to New York City where about 96 basketball players will hold final practice prior to the selection of the 12-man United States basketball team.

The 96 players with whom Hetzel will compete will be the best amateur players in this country and the chances of making it are difficult to determine. Right now I'd say Hetzel has a good chance. Fred Hetzel is a friend of mine and I don’t think it would betray any confidence to say that he wants to play on this team more than anyone can know. The honor of being asked to try out for such a team is considerable but the honor of representing this whole nation against the finest basketball players in the world is one of the highest honors that an athlete can receive. I'd like to thank, for myself, Hetzel, and a great many others, the interest, assistance, and understanding shown in the decision which treated a new situation in a new way and allowed Fred Hetzel a chance to receive this honor. Good luck.

IN THE STUDENTS’ BEST INTEREST...

The Faculty Athletic Committee met recently and made several suggestions to the administration with regard to next year’s basketball program. Two of these suggestions should be of particular interest to the student body and for that reason, I believe they are worth noting.

First, the committee recommended that provisions should be made to provide students with seats along the sidelines for all Coliseum games. This recommendation included the Ohio State game but excluded all other games to be played during the Christmas holidays. Second, the committee recommended that the school should provide a certain limited amount of free transportation for all games played in the Coliseum. This transportation would be for those students who are unable to find any other suitable means of travel.

In light of the many complaints and mutterings of the past few months, these recommendations seem to meet a problem which a nationally ranked team has caused. Any sudden change in a given situation is sure to produce certain difficulties and even inequities for a period of time. To some extent, this has happened this year. What is more important, however, is the flexibility of old ways and the concern of campus leaders to remedy the situation. To some extent, this has already begun to take shape.

The committee also made a third recommendation. They recommended that the basketball schedule be limited to a maximum of 23 games. Dr. Marrotte explained the reasoning of the committee when he pointed out that the Southern Conference schedule had been shortened by one week because the Tournament is now played one week before it used to be held. The committee felt that with an abbreviated schedule period and a longer schedule, the games would be bunched together in such a way as to place a difficult burden on the players. On the basis of this, they recommended the schedule be limited.

All of these recommendations were the result of an effort on the part of this committee to recognize and solve several problems which have just recently arisen. The final solutions have not been effected but there seems little doubt that they will, and with their solutions, a real service will have been rendered to the student body.

COACH OF THE YEAR...

Although this is certainly neither new nor surprising, Coach Driesell was named for the second consecutive year as Outstanding Coach in the Southern Conference. Earlier this week Driesell expressed that this award was made to himself for the efforts of a great many—this team, the assistant coaches, and managers. No one can find any arguments with these sentiments but by the same token no one can detract from the job that Driesell has done since he has been here. He recruited them; he managed them; and they won. He brought national prominence both athletically and academically to this college to a degree never known before. I wonder right now if he wouldn’t trade it all for one more basket on a Friday night not so long ago.

OH, BILL BRADLEY...

The spectre of the tournament system rose from the relative death of journalistic comment and bit the Southern Conference where it hurts the most—its best interest. For on Monday the Southern Conference Tournament champion dropped an 18-point decision to the Ivy League Champion, a team which Davidson had mauled earlier and a team which West Virginia could have very probably beaten.

If VMI was the best representative team for the Southern Conference, then I find it hard to believe that the prestige of this conference has ever been lower. Strangely enough, however, in a year that with the exception of Duke, it was superior to the ACC.

NO. 10...

For the first time in the history of Davidson College, a team finished in the top ten teams as compiled on the final ballot by the AP and UPI.

The Hub Now Bus Station and Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SENIOR CAPTAIN BILL MILLS looks disappointed as he watches his last wrestling match after three years. Mills lost his third match of the year in last weekend’s SC meet to complete a highly successful career. (Photo by Smith)

Five Seniors Bow Out In Disappointing Meet

BY BILL BRIGGS

“We ran a good tournament for West Virginia and VPI. They really enjoyed it.” With those words Coach Charlie Parker summed up the Southern Conference Tournament held in Davidson last Friday and Saturday, March 6 and 7. West Virginia took five firsts in the tourney with VPI taking two. The other first place went to The Citadel. West Virginia won the crown by beating out VPI, VMI, The Citadel, and Davidson. The Mountaineers scored 74 points; VPI had 59; VMI, The Citadel, and Davidson scored 44, 30, and 14 points respectively.

Besides having the outstanding team of the meet, West Virginia also had the outstanding individual competitor. Roy Sisler was the most valuable wrestler of the tournament and received the trophy for the most falls. Sisler pinned all three of his opponents in winning the 177-pound class.

Davidson's disappointing finish in the meet was a hard pill to swallow after the great expectations of the pre-season prognosticators. Despite a mediocre 3-7 record, a

‘Cats Finish Season With 4-7-1 Record

Last weekend the 'Cat swimming team capped their 4-7-1 season record with a sixth-place finish in the Southern Conference Tournament. “Everyone did a fine job for us,” said Coach Dwight Shoe after his squad narrowly missed beating out West Virginia in the tourney at Charleston, S.C.

After failing to qualify in the 500, Jim Grey tied for fourth in the finals of the 1650. All six finalists broke last year's record time—first place going to a time of 19:36. Grey himself carded a 20:29. Another good performance was turned in by Jim Stokes in the 100 butterfly. His 57.7, good for second place, was only .5 second off the record. Bud Frye and Mark Waldon qualified in the 200 breast; Jim Downey and John Alexander qualified for the 200 back. In the latter event, Downey took sixth and Alexander tied for fourth. The 400 medley relay team composed of Alexander, Frye, Stokes, and Hughes beat their previous best time this year by four seconds; their time of 4:10 was just a second off the school record.

While VPI was running away with the meet, only a handful of points separated The Citadel, West Virginia, and Davidson.Only one point separated the latter two. Said Shoe, “This is much better than last year, and with the freshmen I have now, it’s going to be a lot better next year. You know, in our dual meets this year our opponents had to set new school records to take several of our strongest events.” Shoe failed to comment on one of the more interesting events in the S.C. tourney—the managers’ 100 individual medley. Zach Long breezed to a fifth place among the six entrants, but in all fairness, three of those who beat him had previously been on their varsity squads. The future of the event is in doubt.

A fairly good showing was still expected from the team in the tournament, but fate must have had other plans for the Wildcat grapplers. Johnny Webb, Mike Bisard, Hugh Allen, Sam Glasgow, Butch Allison, Bill Pridgen, Billy Mills, and Russ Walls all went down in defeat. Bisard and Mills were beaten by one and two points, respectively; both had been given a good chance to capture first or second place in their weight class, but both had to settle for third instead. The ‘Cats won only two matches during the entire tournament. Bisard beat Hazelwood of VMI for his third-place finish, and Glasgow beat DeForrest, also of VMI, for another third. Mills captured his third as the result of a default by Miller of VPI. Davidson's grapplers now hang up their tights after a rather disappointing season. Injuries and first-semester graduations hurt the team much more than anyone expected. Seniors Billy Mills, Russ Walls, Sam Glasgow, Bill Pridgen, and Dick Wray will have to be replaced for next year. Coach Parker still looks forward to a squad with more depth, brought by the addition of five or six of this year's outpointed freshmen.

ATO's And Sigs Deadlock For Title In Final Game

There is no joy in ATO land; the great Taus have finally struck out. Yesterday afternoon, a scrapping team of Independents, who had split their eight previous games, defeated the previously unbeaten ATO cagers 37-31 in the Taus’ final game of the season and thus managed what is beyond question the most surprising and dramatic upset of the IMAC season. The loss enabled the Kappa Sigs, who had already completed their season, to deadlock with the Taus for the league championship and thus share the title for the second consecutive year. Dave Johnson led the winners with 17 points, almost half the Independents’ total, while ATO aces Pat Hubbard and Rufus Adair were held to 10 and 8 points, respectively, by the tight zone that held the Taus to their lowest point output of the year. The Independents took a quick lead and never trailed, as Johnson and Benny Coxton completely dominated the rebounding. Commented Gary Martin, who contributed 8 points to the victors’ ledger, “They played us man-to-man, so we drew their big men, Rufus Adair and Mike Payne, outside away from the boards so that we could control the rebounds.” Asked about the loss, Adair commented, “We just got beat.” They did, and thus fell some of the luster from the team many still believe to be the best ever in the IMAC.

In yesterday's other action, the Phi Gams tightened their hold on third place by edging the KA's 44-40, as Jerry Trammel's 14 points copped game scoring honors. The Gams need a victory over the Independents in their final game in order to clinch the third position, while the Phi Delts need victories in their last three games, against the Pikas, SAE's, and SPE’s, to stay in contention for the upper echelon.

IMAC STANDINGS
ATO 11-1
Kappa Sig 11-1
Phi Gam 9-2
Phi Delt 6-3
Sigma Chi 8-4
Independent 5-4
KA 6-5
SAE 5-6
PIKA 3-7
Beta 2-8
Sigma Nu 2-9
Sig Ep 1-9
Pi Kapp 0-10

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

A Most Promising Team Opens Next Wednesday
BY FORREST ROLES

With the advent of Spring weather last week, Davidson’s baseball team began practice. Coach Tom Stevens has been putting his 11 lettermen, six sophomores, and one transfer student through the paces in preparation for next Tuesday's opening game against Pfeiffer at Misenheimer. Coach Stevens would not commit himself when asked about the prospects for a winning season, something this senior class has not seen. “We have a very strong pitching staff,” he said, “but I can't say that we are more than adequate anywhere else. In the infield, I need to replace three positions, and the outfield is just as wide open. We'll have to find a combination for these positions if we are to have a good season.”

The pitching staff is balanced and strong. Last year’s leading pitchers, junior Dave Johnson and senior Earl Cole, are back. Juniors Barry Teague, Paul Briggs, and Ronnie Rudolph all looked good in spots last year and seem to be ready for this season. Added to the staff are sophomore Dick Snyder and transfer student Howard Bryan. These two may be the best pitchers on the team. “For the first time since I've been here,” says Coach Stevens, “I’ve got a staff big enough and strong enough to play a tough schedule.”

The infield is staffed by veterans on the left side and is wide open on the right side. Playing third base for the third straight year will be senior Tommy Whitley. Shortstop belongs to senior Rick Smyre, at least until Spring football practice ends and Steve Heckard can practice with the team. As it appears now, sophomore Jim Hyder will play second base and junior Charley Marcon will be at first. Sophomore Tommy Hunter might play second and Sonny Graves might be at first if either Hyder or Marcon are called upon to play the outfield. In the outfield, juniors Lance Walker and Don Davidson should play left and right field, and Dick Snyder should be in center when he is not pitching. Other candidates are Hyder, Marcon, and Smyre, each of whom feels better in the outfield but may be forced to play infield.

Catching should be handled again this year by Captain Eddie Earle. Helping Earle are sophomore Jim Terry and senior Earl Cole. Although Cole is playing the position for the first time, he appears to be able to handle the job. Either of these two men might take Earle’s job. In the games against Pfeiffer, next Tuesday and Friday, the ‘Cats will be looking for revenge for two losses suffered in the opening games last year. Pfeiffer subsidizes its baseball program and always has a tough team. For the past two years, they have been in the finals of the regional NAIA tournament. Coach Stevens has not yet decided who will pitch the two games for the ‘Cats. He said Wednesday afternoon, “I doubt if I will let anyone go more than three innings this early in the season. I want to see as many pitchers work as I can. We have a lot of work to do before we are ready for this schedule. Some of that work will be done in these early games, but that doesn't mean we won't be out there to win. This team is good enough to beat anyone we play and we'll be playing them all to win.”

MARCH SCHEDULE
March 17 Pfeiffer away
March 20 Pfeiffer home
March 24 Belmont Abbey away
March 25 Milligan College home
March 27 Georgia Southern away
March 28 Georgia Southern away
March 30-4 Rollins Tournament away

BASEBALL HAS COME and so has spring. Here Captain Eddie Earle warms up prior to taking his stint behind the plate in an early season workout. (Photo by Smith)

ADLER
Some new Adler Shape-Up cotton sock. Nothing gets it down. The indomitable Shape-Up leg stays up and up and up in plain white, white with tennis stripes, or solid colors. No matter how much you whoop it up. In the air, her Shapette, 69¢, his Shape-Up, 85¢.
THE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO
ADLER
Bush Wilson, Ltd.