PAGE FIVE Wildcats Visit Wofford THE DAVIDSONIAN For Final Football Tilt By SAM BOYTE Davidsonian Sports Writer Davidson's Wildcats complete their football season tomorrow night with an 8 p.m. game against Wofford on the Terriers’ home field in Spartanburg, S.C. The ’Cats will bring a 3-5 record into the game which will see the Terriers try to even their record at 5-5. Davidson assistant coach Tom Stevens, who saw Wofford lose a close (22-14) game to the University of Tampa last week, observed, “They go for the explosive game. They can throw long, deep passes. If they get any daylight, those backs are gone.” Terrier halfback Bill Lane is one of the runners to watch. In one of his best games, Lane ran for a 65-yard touchdown and picked up 148 yards in 19 carries. Lane is also chief punter for Wofford. Coach Bill Dole noted, “They can go for the bomb, the really long pass.” They used this tactic against Tampa to score their second touchdown. Quarterback Warren Whittaker connected with end Paul Infinger for a 39-yard play in the final quarter. At the other end, Wofford has John Housel, 6'4", 230-pound co-captain of the Terriers. Housel grabbed three passes last week as well as being a defensive stand-out. Stevens is impressed with the Terriers’ quarterback. “He is real fast and runs options well,” he notes. It was a last-minute lateral from Whittaker that set up Lane's 65-yard run. He also accounted for 144 yards of passing. “Wofford runs a different kind of offense from any that we've faced before,” noted Stevens. “They run a sort of split-T, using a lot of dives and options off the dive. They depend more on speed than deception. They don't do anything fancy except the dive options. They just run straight at you. They have good speed in the backfield.” “Their defense seems to be better than last year. They have better movement.” One factor in the improved defense is the size of their line which averages between 215 and 220 pounds. The team which center Will Jackson and quarterback Steve Heckard, newly-elected season captains, lead onto the field will be running on injured legs. “Our boys got pretty well beat up in the last game,” lamented Dole. “It’s a matter of the season catching up with us. We've played straight through without a break. It piles up after a while.” As a result, several 'Cats are out of contact work in this week's practice. Heckard, Johnny Walker, Dave Hendricks, and Pat Fisher were in the process of recuperating this week. Jim Rollins and Phil Hightower also Benchwarming By BILL BRIGGS Assistant Sports Editor TICKET TROUBLES Marked improvement has been made this year in the student basketball ticket situation at the Charlotte Coliseum. Last year’s end parquet seats have been replaced by circle, mezzanine, and balcony seats at the side of the court. The Charlotte Invitational Tournament tickets are available this year at half price, whereas last year they were sold at regular admission cost. Regardless of what complaints have been made about our seating arrangements this year, I am convinced that we have almost the best possible seats available, considering the complications made by the ticket demands from faculty, contributing alumni, and the general public. But all is not good. Certain criticisms have not been refuted. Certain questions have not been answered. Certain things still ought to be changed. Why must we pay for any home games? The athletic office says that we are guaranteed ten free games a year. This year we are getting just that. A minimum number of ten free games is a good thing, but why must we also use it as a maximum? All the games for which we pay half price this year are played during Christmas holidays. So what? If we played some of these games at Davidson during the holidays, we could be admitted free. But by moving these games to Charlotte somehow this is changed. I'm all for playing in Charlotte. Whether students pay or not, more money is made; more publicity is gained, and more people enjoy the games. There is just no logical reason why we should pay our money to see our team play in our home games; be they in Charlotte or Davidson; be they ten or fifteen a year. To add insult to injury, someone has dreamed up the catchy little term “complimentary tickets”. That is to say the games which we are rightfully entitled to see by all admissions (including the athletic office's) are “compliments” of some mystic unknown force, who benevolently bestows upon us free tickets. These are complimentary tickets all right. Compliments of the $100 General Fee that we each pay every year. Even the College catalogue admits this. It says the General Fee cost “includes Health and Physical Education and Student Activities” for the year. Another criticism which has been made is about date tickets. No one will argue that our Coliseum games are not home games. Since this is the case, why don’t we get date tickets to these games for the same price as other home games (in Davidson)? Instead of paying the usual $1.50 for a date ticket, under the present Coliseum ticket system we pay at least $2.00 and maybe more, depending on where in the student section we sit. Since the student section encompasses different priced seats, date tickets are different priced. Granted the college need not be concerned with looking out for the interests of dates, or for that matter anyone who doesn’t attend the school. But cheaper date tickets is not a favor to the dates. Considering that any Davidson gentleman who manages to get a date will undoubtedly be paying her way, I think date ticket prices are a clear-cut concern of the students and, therefore, the college. It appears everything hinges on money. The criticisms that have just been reflected would cut down on the college “take” from the coliseum games. Still they deserve consideration. Substantial improvement has been made on one aspect of our criticisms of last year. But digression has resulted in another. FOOTBALL NOTES After resetting his school record for most yards gained in one game by piling up 176 against Lafayette, Steve Smith has taken over the rushing lead in the Southern Conference. He has a season total of 686 yards. Steve Heckard is fourth in passing with 55 completions in 108 attempts for 643 yards. He ranks fifth in total offense with 701 yards. had to take things a little easier and avoid contact. If these boys hold together, Davidson will be starting its usual lineup. Mickey Andrews will be ready to spell Walker, and Jake Jacobsen will be in for Heckard. Dole will be taking an improved team to Spartanburg. He comments, “They began to mature against Richmond. I think they've played good football since. Line blocking has improved. The offensive line has done a real good job. Woody Hill has helped tremendously since we moved him from defense. “The halfbacks have been blocking well. This blocking has been the key to our improvement. Our total picture has improved defensively and in offensive rushing.” Davidson has a 21-5-1 record against Wofford, but this game promises to be no push-over. Coach Stevens pointed out, “We'll have to play a real good game to beat them.” 'Cats Top Lafayette; Smith Resets Record By PAUL MARION Davidsonian Sports Writer Davidson downed the visiting Lafayette Leopards 31-12 last Saturday afternoon at Richardson Field to push the season record to 3-5. The Wildcats equaled the hot weather with a hot offense that produced 438 yards, their best showing of the season. Behind the running of halfback Steve Smith, who broke his own Davidson single-game rushing record by compiling 176 yards, and powerful fullback Dave Hendricks, the Cats scored the first two times they had possession and put the game on ice with a 17-0 halftime lead. Coach Dole, who has “been pleased with the team’s performance since the Richmond game,” singled out defensive tackle Ed Childs and linebacker Dick Short for outstanding performances. Dole was not surprised by the powerful passing attack of Lafayette quarterbacks George Hossenlopp and Gary Marshall, but praised the rushing power of the defensive line. He revealed that the defensive backs were often allowing short passes in order to guard against the bomb. After receiving the opening kickoff, the Black and Red moved to the Leopard 33 and Jim Terry began the scoring with a field goal. The next time they had the football, the Cats moved to the enemy’s 44. From here quarterback Steve Heckard, who has been elected permanent team captain alongWith center Will Jackson, rolled around left end and raced down the sideline to paydirt. In the second quarter, speedy Steve Smith followed heavy blocking around left end and sped 19 yards to his first score of the day. The teams retired at the half with Davidson holding a commanding 17-0 lead. The second half brought a barrage of passes by the Lafayette offense, which finally accumulated 306 yards through the air. However, the Wildcats drew first blood on Smith's second T.D. of the game, a 24-yard sprint around right end. After a Lafayette score, sophomore halfback Mickey Andrews capped his best showing of the season by slashing through a hole in the right side of the Davidson's line and outrunning the Leopard secondary for a 59-yard touchdown. A final visitors’ score brought the final score to 31-12.

Harriers End Season With 4th In SC Meet

“I just couldn’t be prouder of my boys,” beamed William and Mary cross-country coach Harry Groves after his number one runner, Jim Johnson, had smashed the week-old course record at Davidson Monday by more than a minute in leading his fellow cross-countrymen to the Southern Conference Championship. Johnson ran the 4-mile distance in 21:03, breaking the 22:04 record set November 10, by Lewis Farlow of High Point College. William and Mary runners copped first, fifth, tenth, twelfth, and eighteenth places to nose out West Virginia by a score of 46-55. Commented Davidson coach Heath Whittle, “The William and Mary win was certainly a surprise, because on paper, West Virginia was an overwhelming favorite. However, West Virginia’s number three runner didn't perform as well as he usually does.” Behind William and Mary and West Virginia in the team standings came VMI (69 points), Davidson (76 points), Furman (128), Richmond (178), Virginia Tech (191), and The Citadel (207). Of Davidson runners, only Tommy Heffner (9th place) finished in the top ten. He was followed by John Barrow (13th), Robert Dean (14th), Andy Little (17th), Denny Phillips (23rd), Jesse Sims (26th), Ron Reese (27th), Chester Davis (34th), and James Wall (47th).

This meet, last of the 1964 cross-country season, leaves the Davidson varsity with a dual-meet record of 5-2, plus a second-place finish at the state meet and a fourth-place tally at the conference contest. At a meeting of the Southern Conference track coaches after the conference meet, the 1964 All-Conference cross-country runners were chosen. The selection was based on performance throughout the entire season. Selected were Heffner of Davidson, Johnson and Joe Philpott of William and Mary, Howard Jackson and Don Sweeny of West Virginia, Furman’s Charles Jernigan and Avery Sayer, and VMI's Nat Ward.

Record Breaker Brakel

“Best Lineman We've Ever Had”

Jan, called by Fogleman the “best lineman we've ever had in my time,” has used his superb conditioning to best advantage, becoming the leading scorer on this year’s team and the holder of the Davidson soccer record of most goals scored during one season. Prior to the season's finale against Emory today, Jan had booted 26 goals, smashing the old record of 17. A member of the All-South soccer team last year, Jan scored 11 goals as a halfback last year, whereas this year’s halfbacks have accumulated a total of one. Jan started playing soccer, the national sport of the Netherlands, at the age of six, and came to the United States seven years ago. He came to Davidson on its academic merits because he did not know soccer was played here, but became a standout even in his sophomore season. Teammates Lee Fanning and Louis Foss speak of Jan’s ability with respect. Fanning commented, “Jan loves to play soccer. He controls the ball very well, and can place his shots.” Foss declared, “Jan is a leader in the sense that if you let down, he won't. He'll almost come over and play your position.” Coach Fogleman withheld no praise of his pupil, “My only problem is that he's so good. He's kicked our penalty kicks for the past two years and has only missed one shot. He’s a tremendous competitor and works to win; he is superbly conditioned and always hustles. You just can't ask for more than that.”

Phi Gams Grapplers Take Tourney

By NEVILLE PATTERSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

After much controversy and conference between participators, scorers, spectators, officials and wrestling coach Charlie Parker, it was finally determined late Thursday night that the Phi Gams had won the wrestling tournament. The ATO's and the Phi Delts tied for second place, and the Betas were fourth. In winning the tournament, the Phi Gams managed to take two first places and two second places among the individual matches. However, it was in the matches further down the line that the Phi Gams were able to “pin down" their opponents and pile up enough points for an overall victory. Coach Parker stated that the tournament was very successful. “In fact,” he commented, “I wish the student body would turn out like this for a varsity match.” There were 89 entries in the tournament, which eventually wound up with ten winners. Freshmen proved themselves to be capable wrestlers, taking five of the first ten places. Five of the winners, including one freshman, are not out for the wrestling team. “I may be able to do some recruiting here,” mused Parker.

In the 115 lb. class, Glenn Withrow (Sigma Chi) pinned Bill Jones (ATO) in 49 seconds. In the 123 pound class, Jim McMillan (Phi Gam) decisioned Chip Pendleton (SAE), 13-0. Phi Delt Ed Peel pinned Scott Gabrielson (SPE) in 2:36 to take top honors in the 130 pound class. Defending champion John Louthridge (Phi Delt) was beaten by Greg Reineck (Phi Gam) in the 137 pound class. Reineck pinned Louthridge in 1:56. In the 147 pound class, Tex Cathey (KA) pinned Jack Althoff (Phi Gam) in 3:20. Bruce Vanderbloemen (KA) decisioned Ben King (KS) 11-2 to win in the 157 pound class. In the 167 pound class, Ron Hunt (Phi Delt) decisioned Skip Waite (ATO) 6-4. In the 177 pound class George Brewer (SAE) pinned Paul Curlee (Pi Kapp) in 1:37. Beta Tupper Morehead decisioned Phi Gam Bob Martin 9-9 in the 191 class. In the heavyweight class, Lowell Bryan (ATO) pinned Jim Wallace (Beta) in 1:37.

IMAC WRESTLING
Phi Gam 53
ATO 49
Phi Delt 49
Beta 41
SAE 43
KA 30
Kappa Sig 28
Pi Kapp 21
Sigma Chi 19
Sig Ep 12
Sigma Nu 7
Pika 6
Indy 0

Clemson Clobbers Cat Triggermen

The sharpshooters from Clemson ran away with the four-way title meet here last Saturday in the “battle of the ROTC’s.” The Clemson Army ROTC score of 1329 out of 1500 was way ahead of Davidson’s Army ROTC and N.C. State’s Army and Air Force ROTC Departments with respective scores of 1254, 1231, and 1200. Top shooter of the match was Kookie Kuykendal of Clemson with 276. Jim Kopp with 272, Walter Eastes with 254, Jim Clark with 250, Ronnie Rudolph with 251, and Wes Bailey with 227 made up Davidson’s top five. Sgt. Eaves reported that he was “satisfied with our showing over a consistently good Clemson team.” This match evened out Davidson's record at 3-3.

BOTTOMS UP
Wrestler Upended in IMAC Match

MECCA COATS AND JACKETS ARE IDENTIFIABLE ONLY BY THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, ATLANTA, GA.