Che Sauidsonian
(THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY)

CHARLES DIBBLE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH
Business Manager

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

The Court

The casual observer can see twelve houses valued at more than a half-million dollars and situated on a circular road. If he asks, he will have little difficulty finding out that three out of every four Davidson students are members of the Greek letter organizations occupying the houses which serve as the center—and, for the most part, the whole—of Davidson social life.

For almost a century Greek letter organizations have existed on the Davidson campus. They have functioned not only as centers for social activity but also as fraternal organizations or groups of close friends. Freshmen have found in fraternities a continuation of the orientation program as well as an incessant drive for academic improvement.

Davidson men read in national publications that fraternities are on the decline, that it is only a matter of time before fraternities will die out. Then turning back to their Piedmont campus they laugh at such an idea and point to the three national fraternities that have been added to the campus since World War II. “Other schools have problems, but we haven't got anything to complain about here.”

Then Bob Young takes issue. Young, a member of a “strong” fraternity and a recent graduate of Davidson (Class of 1961), questions the authenticity of the “Brotherhood.” He asks if the continued orientation is truly good: is not the freshman actually being directed more to the fraternity than to the college? Is not the freshman being “oriented” away from his first loyalty and primary concern? And the former fraternity liaison officer, while not questioning the fraternity drive for academic excellence, chastises fraternities for their apathy towards extra-curricular intellectual and cultural activities.

One of Young’s strongest grievances lies with the fraternities’ rejection of a large number of each year’s Freshman Class—this year approximately 50 out of 275 received no bids—and the ill effects of the experience on the rejected individual.

IFC President Rick von Unwerth did not follow Young’s Monday talk with a rebuttal. Rather he admitted that many evils lie in the system. He pointed to:

“1. The immediate confrontation of the freshman with a magnified social concern, and the immediate demand for a decision of which he is incapable at the beginning of his first year.

“2. The energy and time required of the freshman in immature activities which mock the avowed intention of pledge ‘character-building.’

“3. An unwarranted feeling of superiority.”

Surely, if there is one campus-wide organization which has the responsibility for such an undertaking, it is the IFC. Von Unwerth and the IFC are in a position to effect “positive, constructive programs” and we are watching for steps in that direction.

Speaking of the freshman who, after joining a fraternity, tends to “divorce himself from the activities of the campus,” the IFC president points to campus leaders who are in fraternities. He contends, “These are the men the fraternity pledge has immediate access to.” May we infer from this that there is no problem? Or is it simply that rubbing elbows with the BMOCs is the best possible solution to this problem?

Deferred Rush

We strongly support Young’s suggestion that rush be delayed. He seeks sophomore rush; we feel second semester would be an adequate delay and would avoid the financial problems of sophomore rush. Imperative is that freshmen have an opportunity to become adjusted to Davidson College as a whole and as a Freshman Class. This can be accomplished only over a period of time and it is best accomplished if the freshman has not been first shuttled into this or that pledge class, whose primary purpose is the advancement of this or that fraternity.

We share Young’s feelings for the “27 per cent.” And while we do not support 100 per cent bidding, we feel that deferred rush would be a step that would lessen the shock of receiving no bid: all freshmen would have had a chance to become oriented to the college as a whole. Under a deferred rush system they would know that a person can survive at Davidson College without a fraternity for they would have done just that for the previous semester. Currently the rejected freshman has nothing to fall back upon: he has been at Davidson almost two weeks and has heard night and day about the importance of a fraternity. Prior to his arrival on campus, he found fraternity letters and publications in his mailbox daily. And suddenly the fraternity system does not want him. The sensation is unique in a lifetime. Unfortunately, the happening is far from unique at Davidson.

Also important is the fact that over a semester, a freshman and a fraternity would have a better chance to get to know each other. “Who-do-you-know” would grow old; the relationship would be more genuine.

Dear Editor:

I address the following letter to Mr. Robert C. Young:

Dear Mr. Young:

After listening to your solution of the fraternity problem, I see how the college could be improved through your suggestions. Perhaps, your ideas could be applied to college admissions with equal success. I am sure the plan I wish to suggest is as workable as yours.

Since Davidson College, like fraternities, is selective, many students are disappointed by rejection. Why not admit everyone who applies for admission? That way, no one would feel rejected. Of course, you will say there is not enough room for all the applicants. This can be solved by admitting the first three hundred to apply or by drawing three hundred applications from a bin where all applications could be stored.

If this nonselective, nonexclusive policy was adopted, the prospective Davidson student would not be forced to fit Davidson's standards. During high school he would not have to participate in activities in order to be called “well rounded." As you called him, Mr. Young, “a zero.” Even school work could be put aside if he thought it was choking his individual characteristics. Without fear of not fitting into the acceptable fraternity or college mold, the student could let his true characteristics shine through. The fraternities and the college would then gain many true characters. If these accepted characters ever found they did not like Davidson, they could, like disillusioned pledges, turn in their pledge pins and get immediate bids from other enlightened colleges.

Mr. Young, I am sure that the above plan would do as much good for the college as yours would for the fraternity system.

J. P. Schrader
Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten, double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m. Wednesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 2, Davidson, N.C.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: Fraternity Dialogue Invades Campus Complacency

Tug O' War by Hallmark Burns

Dear Editor:

On behalf of the YMCA Cabinet, I would like to thank you and the rest of THE DAVIDSONIAN staff for your support of our financial drive. In addition, your cooperation in publicizing our overall program has been greatly appreciated.

I wish to compliment one idea which was set forth in your editorial. No president of this organization has ever been “responsible" for its program. He is backed by a Cabinet, a group of students dedicated to the fulfillment of the Y’s goal. There are also those in the student body who deserve a great deal of recognition for their interest and participation in behalf of the Y. Finally, no president of the YMCA could look back with any degree of objectivity on the program without realizing the major contributions that Will Terry makes each year as advisor.

The Cabinet hopes this year's program will be a meaningful one for all members of the student body. We have formulated it, hoping that we indeed might “deserve the support of every single member of this community,” both “collectively and individually.” This year a different approach has been taken, in that we have already established our program and committed ourselves for various speakers. Thus, the college’s support is imperative. With a united effort, there will again be an active and successful program.

Autrey Edwards

Dear Editor:

Once More With Feeling
By TIM KIMREY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Bob Young started the controversy raging again in chapel on Monday; it had lain dormant for three years. The Fraternity system must change, must eliminate its inherent evils, if it is to survive on the Davidson campus. Von Unwerth answered on Tuesday. Agreed on ideals. But, upon the fraternity system should not lie all the blame for the plight of the independent; rather the College should be reminded that it has failed to provide an adequate social outlet for those outside the fraternity system.

Young proposed sophomore rush and 100 per cent bidding. Von Unwerth countered with the suggestion that a social outlet be provided through eating clubs for unaffiliated students. The ominous and sickening fact here is that our little community of learning is divided on this, as on every other issue. As usual, the “sides” are the same: faculty and administration vs. the student body. Of course, there are those in each camp whose loyalties lie with the other side, but the impetus for so-called “anti-fraternity” measures comes from the Hill, and the push for a “pro-fraternity” compromise is coming from the students.

And it should be noted here that Mr. Young’s proposal was not an official administration proposal; it was made by a concerned individual who has obviously done a lot of serious thinking about the matter, and it should be listened to as such. Still, the fact remains that the College community is astir over the question of fraternities, and the opposing colors are flying on the Hill and on the fraternity court.

Somewhere in the midst of all this, I finally saw that “something” that has been bothering me about Davidson College ever since I have been a student here. For some reason, a very basic, if not always obvious, distrustful atmosphere pervades the Davidson campus—a disharmony exists between the Hill and the student body which, in a very real way, limits Davidson’s aspirations to become a first-class institution of higher learning.

Considering this, we propose that at least one dormitory be cleared for the use of dates on such weekends. This would impose no great hardship upon the student body or the administration, and would certainly alleviate the problem to some extent. The rooms could be made available for Saturday night only, or for both nights if necessary.

Such action may seem unwarranted, and is certainly a break with the “Davidson tradition,” but it would serve to relieve a problem which involves considerable expenditure and a great deal of travel on the part of a majority of the student body.

Autrey Edwards
Davidson CollegeC. tionship between fraternity and freshman would be somewhat more than superficial. The freshman who would ordinarily be rejected has an opportunity of looking further rather than being left in the cold; he has an opportunity to discern whether or not he would really be happy at a particular house. Freshman social life need not shudder to a halt; rather rush would adjust to accommodate freshman social life. Likewise, rush would have to be adjusted to a pace suitable for a semester, a difficult but certainly not an impossible task.

Obviously, this is a very broad generalization—one which would be seriously battered if hit with a barrage of examples to the contrary. And I would not be so naive as to maintain that such examples are few and far between. Still, I cannot help but feel that the student mind is influenced in its dealings with the Hill by a presupposition that the faculty-administration is out to suppress student desires and ideas. And the paternalistic attitude among many members of the faculty-administration that says “don’t let them go too far; we’ve got to keep the upper hand.”

I have also noticed that many student requests are viewed by faculty and administration alike as being measures which would make it “easier” on students (e.g., free cuts, more liberal drinking rules, no required religious exercises, etc.). “You knew this was the way it was when you came to Davidson” and “The students don’t run the College, you know” are oft-heard expressions on the Hill.

This same blind stupidity is also evident within the student body by such phrases as “The Dean’s office spends half its time thinking up raw deals for the students” and “Dr. [name] really loves to screw you (to the wall, of course) on a review.” And it makes me sick. While I certainly do not sanction such suspicion, I do feel that it is an effective alternative that should be carefully considered by the fraternity men as opposed to making changes in the present basis for membership in fraternities.

Education is not knowledge imparted to unknowledgeables in an institution where all the rules of the game are fixed (and I do mean fixed!) by the powers-that-be. It is, if it is to be effective, an experience in cooperation and mutual respect. And it is not this at Davidson. There are members of both the faculty and administration who have told me (in confidence) that student ideas and suggestions are, for the most part, irresponsible and impractical—that little of the progress this college has made recently has been spawned within the student body. Might I cite the liberalized cut-system, increased library funds, and changes in policy regarding vespers as three good examples to the contrary?

This idea is just a little sickening to me, simply because it seems to imply that the college is a machine that produces finished products after four years of careful molding, and that it is a machine over which the raw material has no control. This means that the students have very little say-so concerning the means of production. And it stinks of paternalism.

Education is not a process whereby the uneducated come to a group of teachers and administrators and say, “Educate me.” Education is simply (or maybe not-so-simply) a coming together of students and teachers and administrators who say to one another, “Let us learn together.” It is a cooperative venture in the pursuit of truth—founded upon mutual friendship, knowledge, respect, and trust. This is education. This is not the “education” available at Davidson College.

Lanier Burns
President of the YMCA
Davidson College

Associate Editors
Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth
Tim Kimrey

Managing Editors
John Todd
Mike Harrington

News Editor
Rufus Adair

Feature Editor
Bob Strauser

Sports Editor
Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor
Bill Briggs

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Contributors the week: M. L. Cannon, Deck Spencer, Mike Hunter, Tom Peaden, Tom Cook, Steve Brown, John Allen, Mike Mooty, Neville Patterson, Paul Maron, Ed Maxwell, Mike Bates, Tim Rothermel, Jamie Bryant, Louis Lesesne

Copy Editor
Don Davis

Asst. Copy Editors
Bill Aitken
Calvin Zon

Photographers
Sam Smith
Tom Thel
Erskine Sproul

Cartoonists
Jack Lingle
Rufus Hallmark
Lou Hill

Asst. Business Mgr.
Irvine Welling

Advertising Mgr.
Bob Cameron
Harry Carr, Bert Whisenant, Ross Cornwell, Will Shackleford, Bob Vance, Frank Fleming, Paul Monk, Bill Farr, Joe Ford, Bobby Howard, Ted Glusman, Lindsay Davis, and Heyward Carter.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

‘Greek’ Offers Proposal

Dear Editor:

This week seems to have brought many comments and suggestions concerning the Davidson fraternity system and to this discussion I would like to add my own reflections. I feel that the present fraternity system has a great deal of value for both the college, per se, and for the students. Fraternities offer a necessary retreat from the academic pressures of the campus while not overshadowing the primary purpose of the institution.

The current criticism, however, is, to some extent, very justified. The fraternity system plays a major part in the life of all students at Davidson and thus because of its important place on this campus, it must not deny the responsibility it has towards those outside of the system. The primary problem raised by the fact that some of the freshmen do not receive a bid, or that some do not pledge because they did not receive “desirable” bids, is the complete lack of social facilities and opportunities available to the non-Greek.

Though rejection may be felt initially, the non-pledge has no problems in making friends with the fraternity men on his hall or in his class because of the fact that he is not in a fraternity. To a great extent, it is the “left out feeling” on dance weekends, the inability to easily get a ride to Queens on Saturday nights, or the problem of where to take your folks to eat when they come to visit that perpetuates the feeling of rejection and causes the frustrations that presently exist among many independent freshmen.

The solution then does not lie in the inauguration of 100 percent bidding, for this would only change the fact of rejection from an official one to an unofficial one, but rather in the existence of some highly acceptable alternative to being in a national fraternity. I would propose then that the IFC take upon itself to work with the men of Lingle Manor and to share with them some of the techniques of organization that fraternities have acquired through the years. If Lingle Manor could become a more active institution on this campus, it would provide a more acceptable alternative to both the freshman who does not receive a bid and to the one who does not desire to join a fraternity.

Lingle Manor needs more effective leadership and an understanding of the problems confronting those who try to operate a successful social organization. If the IFC appointed a committee of fraternity leaders to actually join Lingle Manor and not take it over, but work with the other members, I believe that it could rise to a more respected position on campus in two or three years. When it becomes larger, it could offer boarding house privileges or could provide a nucleus for the formation of a social eating club or of a local fraternity to exist in addition to Lingle Manor. If this state were achieved, then the independents would have the choice between a social organization that would require little time or expense and an eating club that would be an effective alternative for those desiring a more complete social organization but not achieving membership in one of the national fraternities on campus.

Lingle Manor and any other similar organizations that might develop in the future should be offered full dues-paying voting membership in the IFC if desired. The above-outlined proposal is not without its weaknesses but should be carefully considered by the fraternity men as opposed to making changes in the present basis for membership in fraternities.

I also feel that the position of fraternities on this campus would be considerably strengthened by the existence of a strong non-fraternity social organization on the campus. However, I strongly believe that if such an organization is to be formed, it must receive the guidance and support of the fraternity men to be a success. The IFC and every fraternity man must realize that this system of which we are a part does have some definite inherent evils; because these evils exist and because of the dominant role fraternities play with respect to social life on this campus, fraternity men must be willing to go beyond their absolute responsibility to the system and attempt to understand the problems caused by the system and then work for their solution. Only in this way can we justify or hope to maintain our present position on campus.

Arthur Ross II
Davidson College