LB) SWEEPS, CAMPUS (See Page Three) SD VOL. LII

Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston revealed Wednesday night that he voted against Davidson’s participation in the National Invitational Basketball Tournament to be held in New York this month. Johnston was one of the five members of the Southern Conference Executive Committee who voted Tuesday on whether or not the Wildcats should play in the tournament. The executive committee turned down a request by the college after an NIT invitation to let its team participate. The final breakdown of who voted for or against participation was not released; however, Athletic Director Tom Scott said that four of the five members of the committee would have to approve. The committee was polled by Conference Commissioner Lloyd P. Jordan on a telephone conference hookup.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Johnston gave four reasons for his vote against participation in the NIT by the Wildcats. “As a former NCAA council member,” said Johnston, “I know how it frowns upon participation by its member schools in the NIT. The NCAA guarantees the Southern Conference champion a place in its tournament every year. I would not want the conference to do anything to jeopardize this treatment.” Johnston gave as a second reason the fact that he did not want to antagonize other coaches who might not approve of Davidson's playing in the NIT. The fact that the conference has a guaranteed place in the NCAA tournament aids their recruiting, he said. “I also do not believe participation would be in the best interests of Davidson College," Johnston said. “I realize that this is a personal viewpoint and that many here perhaps believe we should play. But the NIT does not have the prestige of the NCAA Tournament.” Finally, Johnston said that he did not believe Davidson should be permitted to enter the NIT when other Southern Conference teams have been turned down in the past by the conference. Johnston cited the Furman team of the mid-50s as a precedent for the committee's decision. That was the season of the great Frank Selvy, and Furman received a bid to exhibit its star in the NIT. The conference's executive committee turned down Furman's request to play. “You must realize, too, that the NIT did not even invite the runner-up in the conference this year, George Washington,” Johnston added. Commissioner Jordan explained from his office in Richmond that the executive committee was merely interpreting a by-law of the conference which states that a member may play in the conference tournament, the NCAA tournament, or the Olympic playoffs. “The Commissioner's office was authorized to inform you that a motion was made and approved by the executive committee that it was not in the best interests of the Southern Conference for Davidson College to participate in the NIT," he said. Jordan said that any member of the conference might move to amend the by-laws so that participation in the NIT would be allowed. He explained that it was a complicated procedure, but one which would be quite possible in the future. Jordan refused to explain the ways in which the conference benefited Davidson. His only answer was, “I was a coach for a good many years. I always took my losses.”

Dual Concert Heads IFC Weekend Plans

The IFC spring concert weekend kicks off tomorrow afternoon in a rather mild departure from previous functions with a double-barreled program in Chambers Auditorium, featuring Oscar Brown and the Brandywine Singers. Brown is remembered by most Davidsonians for his successful concert in the fall of 1962. He is recognized as one of the better actor-singers in the folk-music field today, because of his different characterizations to fit his original songs. Most reviews describe his songs as “electrifying,” and Brown himself refers to his lyrics as “verses about feelings I've felt and scenes I've dug.” The Singers, five of them, originated at the University of New Hampshire and are rising fast on the concert circuit. IFC president Haynes Kelly reports that on a recent meeting of 30 college representatives, the Brandywines were booked through the end of this year. Known for their “button-down singing,” they always put much preparation and research into their performances. Nevertheless, folk music is their business and that is what they sing. In preferring two lesser-known attractions in an afternoon session for $3000 rather than a big-name “bomb,” Kelly has optimistically referred to this as one of the IFC's better “darkhorse” weekends. The concert begins at 2 in Chambers. The two may follow each other or alternate during the three-hour, two-intermission performance. For those with other preferences, the campus is full of other activities for the weekend. French Week ends at Davidson tonight with the performance of “The Lark,” by the French national touring company. Students from many high schools and colleges in the area will be on campus for the play. For the more avid fans, the Southern Conference Wrestling Tournament began this afternoon in Johnston Gymnasium. It will end tomorrow night. Also, the college administration is courting its scholarship finalists on campus for the weekend. Most of the high-schoolers arrived yesterday and will have the entire weekend to evaluate the college propaganda. At any rate, review-worn Davidson students are facing one of the college's more varied spring weekends.

Johnston Votes Against ‘Cats Accepting NIT Bid

Student Body President John Spratt said this week that he and Honor Court Chairman Howard Arbuckle would formally request the Executive Committee of the Faculty to reconsider campusing as a punishment.

Spratt Asks Faculty To Review Campusing

Kappa — Che Davidsonian FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1964 Sig WHOSE PAPER? (See Page Two) NUMBER NINETEEN

Incident Precipitates Request

ed from his office in Richmond that the executive committee was merely interpreting a by-law of the conference which states that a member may play in the conference tournament, the NCAA tournament, or the Olympic playoffs. “The Commissioner's office was authorized to inform you that a motion was made and approved by the executive committee that it was not in the best interests of the Southern Conference for Davidson College to participate in the NIT," he said. Jordan said that any member of the conference might move to amend the by-laws so that participation in the NIT would be allowed. He explained that it was a complicated procedure, but one which would be quite possible in the future. Jordan refused to explain the ways in which the conference benefited Davidson. His only answer was, “I was a coach for a good many years. I always took my losses.”

Candidate Preyer Plans College Visit

Gubernatorial hopeful L. Richardson Preyer will be on campus Wednesday morning from 7:30 to 8:15 at an informal coffee hour in the Union. Preyer, who is a member of the Board of Visitors, seeks the Democratic nomination. His visit is sponsored by the Young Democrats Club, which hopes to bring all the Democratic candidates to campus before the primary.

TONIGHT — Monita Derrieux (left) as Agnes Sorel and Monique Saintey as the Queen will appear in the French production of Anouilh’s “L’Alouette.” The play, which will begin at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium, met success on Broadway several years ago as “The Lark.”

Council Debates Use Of Book Spot Check

By RON SNOW

In a meeting with Dr. Chalmers Davidson and Howard Arbuckle, the Student Council decided that a spot check will be held in the future as the second in a series of moves to correct the library situation. Not to be confused with a secret police effort, the check would be an incentive to return the missing books. Reporting to the Student Council on the library situation, Dr. Davidson said that last year a check of the library stacks and cards revealed that 250 books were missing. Suggesting various solutions, he cited the fact that one can’t always appeal to the “Davidson honor” in cases like this, because there are no specific rules covering it. If the faculty were to impose rules, the students would be apt to make a game of it, so the impetus for improvement must come from a student.

CANDIDATES MUST FILE

Revamping Expedites Elections

BY WALTER MACDONALD

Chairman, Elections Board

The most important information this year for potential candidates is the operation of the filing system which replaces the nominating system. Any person who wishes to become a candidate for office must personally file a statement (see Sec. 2d, Student Council By-Laws) with the Elections Chairman in 13 Duke, showing his willingness to run. This may be done any afternoon or evening of the days designated for filing by the Elections Committee. No person may become a candidate who does not file within the appointed deadline. The positions which are to be filed for by candidates are: each class’s respective Student Body Officer (President, Vice-President, Secretary-Treasurer), Honor Court, Freshman Advisor from the rising Senior Class, and Student Council positions. Once a candidate has filed, he shall be allowed to submit a platform to the Elections Committee. The committee will then return 200 printed copies of the platform to the candidate for his personal distribution. The expense of those statements will be paid for by the Student Council. Common ballots will be given to each class with all positions being voted on that day. This means that there will be three groups of elections requiring a maximum of nine voting days. The only exception is the office of the President of the Student Body which will not appear on the ballot on Mar. 19, but which will appear on the runoff ballots of Mar. 20 and 23, if necessary. This is done because Presidential speeches cannot be made until Mar. 19 chapel period. The day's delay will allow the Student Body enough time to discuss the candidates and their platforms. The seemingly early deadline for filing will enable THE DAVIDSONIAN to publish a complete list of the following week's candidates and offices. For the first time, the Student Body will be aware of who the candidates are before picking up their ballots to vote. It should also allow greater discussion of each candidate before the voting starts. THE DAVIDSONIAN will also carry a brief description of each office and exactly what duties that office entails. Also for the first time, it is hoped that each candidate will be introduced in chapel on the| day of voting. This will help the Student Body to associate faces with names of the candidates that they may have heard of or seen but without knowing who the person is. To try to regulate the problem with closed stacks would pose a problem and prove an inconvenience to a small library. The Student Council, after kicking around many suggestions ranging from restrictive punitive measures to Gestapo search tactics, unanimously voted for the spot check. The opinion voiced by Spratt in Monday chapel, which would allow organized election campaigns, was reversed by the Student Council. The council defeated Spratt’s suggestion of organized campaigns by a 9-4 vote. The council concluded that "Elections are to be conducted on a personal level in an unorganized manner, with any organized solicitation forbidden. The Student Council wants to retain strict individual initiative in these campaigns."

During the discussion on elections, Walter MacDonald, an Independent and Chairman of the Elections Committee, maintained that partial bloc voting was prevalent during elections, despite efforts to squelch it. He went on to say that dynamic leadership was lacking on this campus and that, "There are only three real leaders on campus this year. Perhaps the 108 members of the class of 1967 who were either student body presidents, student body vice presidents, or class presidents in secondary schools will put some life into campus organizations, I hope so."

Spratt said, "Our plans to make the request were precipitated by the recent campusing for the remainder of the year of a Kappa Sigma senior. Arbuckle and I plan to write a formal request to the Executive Committee asking them to reconsider the entire matter of campusing and to review their whole policy of meting out punishment." Spratt said that he and Arbuckle had already discussed some substitute punishments and some ways to modify the penalty of requiring students to remain within the town limits of Davidson for a specified period of time. "We are going to meet again to select more alternate penalties to campusing," Spratt said. "We have already decided to suggest that, instead of campusing students who overcut chapel or vespers, the punishment be changed so that those who overcut will lose a certain portion of their cuts the next semester. Of course, if a senior overcuts the second semester, then campusing may be the only alternative for him. Another concrete proposal that we have decided to make is that if a student breaks campus and confesses immediately, then he be only campused 30 more days from the time he broke campus, rather than being campused for another month after his first month of campusing runs out. What we are trying to do," Spratt continued, "is to devise punishments more applicable to the offenses and to make penalties more constructive. We believe punishments should have more than just a negative element."

Spratt said that he and Arbuckle would also ask the Dean of Students to confer with the Student Council President and the Honor Court Chairman before students are formally tried by the Executive Committee for disciplinary matters. "If this is done," Spratt said, "then we can consult with him and register student opinion with the committee before they meet." Spratt pointed out that he usually did not know what action was taken on students until after they had been tried and punished. "Then, it is too late for me to help them much," Spratt noted. "If I can register student opinion before the committee meets, then I can try to make sure that punishments are not too excessive."

The case of the Kappa Sig senior illustrates perfectly Spratt’s statement. He was surprised by a campus policeman in his fraternity house on Saturday morning of Midwinters breaking the five o'clock curfew. He and his date were behind a closed, locked door in the basement with the lights out. A University of Virginia medical student and his date were also in the room. The senior was later tried by the Executive Committee under the catch-all clause, "Conduct unbecoming a Davidson Gentleman." He was charged with and convicted of breaking curfew, being behind a locked door with his date, and giving false information (a false name) to the security policeman who caught him. He was campused for the remainder of his college career. The usual penalty for breaking curfew is a $25 fine from the IFC. The senior also paid this fine. The Kappa Sigma fraternity was also punished for the actions of members in the house. On both nights of the weekend, members were caught breaking curfew. It was the third straight Midwinters that the Kappa Sigs violated rules during the weekend. The fraternity has been put on both Social and General Probation for the remainder of the year. Social probation includes the following prohibitions: no date in the house, no social functions, and no group of more than five Kappa Sigs may attend any parties or other such social affairs. General Probation means that the fraternity must not break any of the college rules concerning fraternities. It also means that if any of the provisions of their Social Probation are violated, the fraternity can be punished "up to and including the loss of rushing and pledging privileges for the next year."

Jazz Combo Gives Its Second Concert

The Contemporary Jazz Trio, playing a program of all new music in the modern jazz vein, will give its second concert of the year Friday evening, March 13, at 8:15 at Hodson Hall. The group, which includes Sidney Farrar on piano, Stanley Kerr on bass, and Dave Hoag on drums, has been playing together since the first of the school year and has performed at various parties and programs over the past months. Since their first concert in the Morrison room of the Union, the group has graduated to the facilities of the Cunningham Fine Arts building and has broadened its program to include the music of Henry Mancini, Thelonious Monk, Duke Ellington, Johnny Williams, and originals by the group. There will be no admission charge.

According to Bob Young, Assistant Dean of Students, both Spratt and Arbuckle feel that the punishment given to the Kappa Sig is too harsh for the offense committed. They have already written a letter to the Executive Committee stating this fact: "We believe that the punishment exceeds the offense, that it is an undue restriction," it says. The letter also suggests that the senior be released from the campusing restriction at mid-semester, if his grades reach the average that the college feels he should have. Dean Richard C. Burts said that the committee would take action on Spratt's letter at its next meeting and would also consider the new proposals that Spratt will request. "I cannot say when the next meeting will be, however," Burts said. "The committee only meets on call; we do not have regularly scheduled meetings."

Spratt said that he thought the punishment of the Kappa Sigma fraternity was also out of line with the offense committed. "I think that only General Probation would be perhaps more realistic," he said. Spratt said that he had talked to one member of the Executive Committee and that he felt that there may be a chance that the fraternity will be released from its restrictions after spring vacation. "I just have a feeling that there may be a chance, but I really have little to base it on."

Spratt cited two other cases this year that he felt were handled unjustly by the committee. Both involved the breaking of campus and helped form the basis of one of Spratt’s intended requests for changing the penalty. "Bill Council and Decker Faw broke campus unintentionally and were both campused for thirty additional days, even though they confessed immediately and stated the circumstances," Spratt said. "Faw went to teach Sunday School in Barium Springs and suddenly realized after he had gotten out of town what he had done. Council went to Mooresville to play tennis with Dr. (James Y.) Causey, accepting the invitation without remembering that he should not have left town."

Spratt said that he and Arbuckle objected to each of the campusing cases during Student-Faculty Conference Committee meetings. "We also stated orally that we hoped the Executive Committee would review its entire policy of campusing and made recommendations for changes. Since no action has been taken, we felt it necessary to write out specific proposals and present them formally to the Executive Committee."

Dear Sirs,

Just a note to tell you how much we enjoyed having your son, Joe, in our church Sunday with his negro date. We hope they will come back to worship God the next time—maybe after their date to demonstrate on the streets of Charlotte March 2. Hope he isn’t devoting too much time from studies to women.

This postcard was received last week by Joe Howell’s father. It bore no signature and was postmarked Davidson. The remark about the "negro date" apparently refers to the appearance in the College Presbyterian Church Sunday, February 22, of several Negro girls accompanied by seven Davidson students. In a letter in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN, Jay Federman, one of the students involved, explained that the girls were not dates. Howell was not even involved in the incident. However, Howell, president of the YMCA, is the leader of a scheduled march by Davidson’s Rights Group to be held in Charlotte March 14. He does not plan to date a Negro at the march. The parents of another advocate of equal rights, who was with the Negro girls at the church, also received a similar unsigned card. Due to the degree to which his parents were upset, he does not wish his name to be used.