FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

Ski Lights
BY ALEX BERNHARDT

If you have noticed an exceptional number of crutches around the campus since semester break, you may not understand why the current rage is Skiing. Nonetheless, Playboy, Sports Illustrated, Life, and even Time run articles and innumerable advertisements on ski resorts, ski clothes, and skis. The recent Winter Olympics in Innsbruck helped to put skiing even more in vogue. Winter sports, like Ivy clothes and folk music, have made their belated way to our locale from the big Eastern schools, and a temperate climate is no longer a good excuse for the Davidson student not to know a few stylish ski terms to drop.

In all defense to a great sport, however, skiing is as exciting and colorful as any other outdoor activity I know, and a good skier must have nerve as well as skill. The Davidson student now has access to several acceptable slopes, but to avoid crutches and empty wallets there are several things the aspiring skier should consider. The most common reasons for accidents are poor snow conditions and general ignorance about skiing equipment and principles. In this area, snow will often melt during the day and freeze at night into a solid sheet of dark, ominous ice; in such a case you had better look at the girls and come home. If you are a beginner and are renting equipment, be sure your skis are no taller than you are and that your boots fit very snugly, since good boots are more essential than good skis. Most skis have safety release bindings to protect your knees and legs, but their purpose is defeated if they are tightened too much. None of these pointers will be of much help, however, if you insist on going to the top of the biggest slope before knowing how to stop or turn. A little practice and experimenting will help you master these fundamentals, but the best and cheapest way is to eavesdrop on the pro when he is teaching his classes.

The best way to learn to ski in a hurry is to go where the facilities are the best, and in a surprising number of cases these resorts will have the cheapest prices. I was lucky enough to go with Dr. Clark to Stowe, Vermont, for four days during the Christmas holidays, and we found the lift fees comparable to those in this area, and the rentals were a little cheaper. Stowe has 28 slopes that are all longer than any run in the South, and the novice slopes there would put some downhome “experts” to shame. One can certainly get in more skiing there in a day than in any two days in North Carolina, and consequently one learns twice as quickly.

If you are not interested in driving a thousand miles, however, the Blowing Rock Ski Lodge is only two hours from Davidson. Blowing Rock has a beginners’ and an intermediate slope and a 2500-foot main slope, the longest in North Carolina. Rental fees for skis, boots, and poles are about $6.50, and the lift fee is $4.15 on weekdays and an additional dollar for the weekend; this $11.50 weekend rate is the highest I have encountered anywhere, and the lifts only run from 10:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. If you want to try to ski through a mass of sprawling plumbers, go to Blowing Rock, but do not expect the snow to be always good. When I was there last weekend, I saw six broken legs in two hours, and the victims had to wait in line for splints and stretchers. Nevertheless, Blowing Rock is still the most logical place to ski if you only want to go up for the day.

My nomination for the best ski resort in this general area is the Homestead in Hot Springs, Virginia. It is a five-hour ride to the Homestead, but the additional three hours are well spent; this resort has far more class, better skiing, and cheaper prices than any other place in the South. The student rates are $4.50 for rentals, and the lift fee is $2.00 on weekdays and $6.00 on weekends. The Homestead has a 3500-foot main slope, two intermediate rope tows, and three back trails for skiing in natural snow. Music on the slopes, a circular fireplace in the lodge, and adequate attention also add to the appeal, not to mention that the Homestead is centered between Hollins, Sweetbriar, and Mary Baldwin. Considering the prices and the crowd, the ideal time to ski is any weekday you can afford to take the cuts; you can possibly afford more for your purpose if you have either Professors Clark or Wruck.

It would be impossible to describe every aspect of skiing in detail since this sport involves not only a wide range of technical aspects but also a gratifying amount of color. This is one fad that is neither temporary nor unexplainable, for skiing has long been acknowledged as the most enjoyable of winter sports by its devotees. Perhaps, if the Davidson gentleman continues to show an interest, the fad will become permanent here also, and ski sweaters may come to Rush’s yet.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS AND FACULTY! SEE TATE-BROWN’S SOUTHERN CONFERENCE BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT WINDOW 126 S. Tryon St. ALL THE WAY ‘CATS!

To VPI Swimmers

BY BOB STRAUSER

A highly successful VPI swimming team invaded the confines of the Davidson pool Monday afternoon and added to their laurels with a 60-44 win. The Cadets had previously beaten such powers as William and Mary, The Citadel, and the University of Virginia.

Consistent Randy Hughes picked up the only first place for the ‘Cats in the individual medley with a time just over 2:22. Stokes turned in a good time of 2:19 in the 200 fly but his efforts were only good for second place. Back with the squad after missing three meets with an injury was Bill Jacobs. He compiled 154 points to take third in the diving. Coach Dwight Shoe commented, “Among the others, John Alexander did a particularly good job. He managed a 2:25 in the 200 back; this is just a second over his best time. He needs to get this down to a 2:22 to qualify for the conference meet."

The ‘Cats’ next meet will be at William and Mary next Monday. Following that, they will close out the year with the meet in Charleston on March 5.

Last Monday UNC hosted the Freshman Invitational swimming meet and attracted 12 of the best squads on the eastern seaboard, including five talented ‘Kittens from Davidson. Competition was purely on an individual basis and no team scores were computed. Jim Grey set two new swimming records in recent competition. (Photo by McCutchen)

Indoor Track Season Draws Near The End

The abbreviated winter track season arrived at Davidson this month, despite the lack of an indoor track and the miserable abundance of undesirable weather. In the last two weeks, the Davidson Indoor Track team has turned in commendable showings in the Big Five and Southern Conference Meets.

In the Big Five competition, held at UNC on Feb. 15, the ‘Cats finished fourth—ahead of hapless N.C. State. Alan Turner took first in the 70-yard low hurdles with a time of 7.9 seconds; his 6.5-second finish in the 60-yard dash was good for third place. “These boys receive little publicity and work under some terrible hardships," said Whittle.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

think they should receive recognition for their hard work.” Ronnie Reese got fourth in the 880 with a 2:02; Tommy Heffner claimed fifth in the mile. The real excitement came from Steve Gill's finish in the quarter. Running against four Blue Devils and one Carolina athlete, Gill moved from fifth to third in the last 220, passing two Duke runners in the process. The Southern Conference Meet saw the ‘Cats beat out Richmond for seventh place. Only Alan Turner produced points for Coach Heath Whittle’s squad. Turner took second in the 60 with a 6.4 and cleared the six-hurdle, 70-yard course in a winning time of 8.1. Other members of the squad include Greg Gates, John Barrow, and Denny Phillips. The latter combines with Gill, Reese, and Turner to form the mile relay team. In the Big Five Meet, freshmen Jerry Kriebel and Steve Humphry accompanied the squad.

After several heats, John Helm noted, “Jacobs did a good job; we're really glad to have him back.” Only a fine performance by Rich Holt. Dave Garland of VPI carded a 2:18 in the 200 individual to place sixth, while Steve Barden’s 2:05 in the 200 free placed him in the top 15. Garland turned in a 1:53 in the 100 free, and Grey's 2:08 was good for second place. Grey also placed in the 500 free with his usual mark of 6:05.

Tough luck marred the performances of Monty Johnson and Butch Falligant. Johnson missed his usual mark.

RUFUS ADAIR SCORES TWO MORE as he leads the front-running Taus past the Pi Kaps in this week's action. (Photo by McCutchen)

Payne, Stitt, Fuller & Adair Lead Action In IMAC Play

To all appearances, it has been Phi Delt week in the incredible world of Sam Going’s IMAC. The Delts proved themselves masters on the hardwood and in the water during the past 10 days. Big Mike Payne's 25 points against the Pi Kapps and Rufus Adair's 23 against the KA’s contributed heavily to the sweep. Twenty men participated in the Pi Kapp-ATO contest, as the first place Taus had little trouble downing their hapless opponents 73-31.

The swimming meet, originally planned for January, was finally held on Tuesday and Thursday of last week. Easily sweeping the event, the Delts received competition only from the Kappa Sigs and Sigma Chis. At word, a dispute over eligibility involving the KA’s and ATO’s was still unsettled. The dispute revolves around the question: How much varsity experience makes an athlete ineligible for intramural competition the next year? In deciding the issue, the IMAC will determine fourth and fifth place in this year’s tourney.

For the Delts, Steve Davidson carried off first place honors in the 25 butterfly and John Loughridge took first in the 50 backstroke. Their freestyle relay team, composed of Steve Davidson, Steve Smith, Mike Thurman, and Hal Foss, also took a first.

In the meantime, intramural basketball fans were treated to an unusual performance from Dave Stitt, formerly with the freshman basketball team, in the Beta-Phi Delt game. Stitt pumped in 23 points for the Delts to lead them to a 68-52 win. Later, the Delts downed the Independents 54-45 to move from sixth to fourth in the standings.

IMAC BASKETBALL
Kappa Sig 9-0
Phi Gam 8-1
Phi Delt 7-1
KA 6-3
Sigma Chi 6-4
Independent 4-4
SAE 4-5
Pika 2-6
Beta 2-7
SPE 1-7
Sigma Nu 0-6
Pi Kapp 0-6

Wrestlers Split Two; Look To SC Meet

In wrestling action during the past week, Coach Charlie Parker’s squad split a pair of meets and brought their season record to 3-7. This completes the regular season competition; on March 6-7 Davidson will host the Southern Conference Tournament.

Eric Nichols outpointed Paul Stork 5-3 in one of the best matches of the afternoon. Stork had not lost a match all year until the meet with West Virginia just before the Davidson match. Mike Bizard also obtained decisions in two of his matches. Bizard’s opponent had gone into overtime last year before dropping to the conference champion at 135. Now wrestling at 130, he dropped to Bizard 6-1. Russ Walls dropped a tough match to John Crisman; Johnny Webb and Sam Glasgow were both outpointed by their Cadet opponents. The meet ended in a draw for Davidson.

Last Friday, the ‘Cats journeyed to Athens for a meet with the University of Georgia. The Bulldog wrestlers were not too concerned and went so far as to allow one of their wrestlers to go home for the weekend. The results proved disastrous for the over-confident Georgia team. Mike Bizard moved up to 137 and got one of the ‘Cats’ two pins for the afternoon. Johnny Webb (123) managed the other one. Captain Billy Mills (167) took his match to complete the Davidson win and bring their record to 3-7. Eric Nichols (177) and Sam Glasgow (147) managed draws in their matches. Russ Walls (heavy) and Butch Allison (157) completed the afternoon.

In freshman competition at Lexington, the ‘Kittens turned in a good performance but since only one freshman wrestler made the trip, two events had to be forfeited. Bob Dugger and Martin Miller won the only two matches for the freshmen.

In looking forward to next Friday and Saturday for the Conference Meet, there is little to be noted as yet. Nobody has been seeded and Coach Parker is still involved in the details of organization for the event. These details will be finalized early next week.

STEVE HECKARD, two-time letter winner at end, tries his hand at quarterback in an attempt to fill the vacancy left by graduation. (Photo by McCutchen)

The ATO's downed the KA's, Sigma Nu's, and Pi Kapp's to strengthen their hold on first place. 

IMAC SWIMMING
Phi Delt 54
Sigma Chi 44
Kappa Sig 33
ATO 22
KA 21
Phi Gam 19
SAE 8
SPE 5
Sigma Nu 3
Pika 2
Pi Kapp 1
Beta 0
Independent 0

Best Wishes To Basketball Team Let's Go All The Way!
Bush Wilson, Ltd.

Concord, North Carolina