THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1964

Frolickers Gleefu Parties, Hattie, Madras,

BY GREG GOVAN

Spring Frolics is spring, and spring just is, only this and nothing more. Yet, as with the weekend, more can be said of the season: a story of Madras and madness, of vespers and lilacs.

Spring is how you wear it, usually in shorts without socks and definitely buttoned down. It is tanned slowly beside the dorms with a blanket and a book that seldom gets read. It is Madras cotton and sunglasses. It is the aurora of freshness that can hang about a girl. Nature wears spring in green which appears as if overnight. It refracts the winter monochrome into a happy spectrum. It brings back little sounds and becomes more subtle, more coy.

The wearing of spring has its appointed times and places. Old army blankets find their way from sunbathing to the lake on long Sunday afternoons with a portable radio. And there are the mountains and the beaches. All of the fashion of spring is in its dance weekend, the open weekend, the weekend of improvisation, of wandering, sitting, swimming. There is always time in the afternoons to wonder what the whole thing is about.

* * *

NANCY UNDERWOOD
Pi Kappa Alpha

SANDY LANEHART
Alpha Tau Omega

GOLDIE ANGLIN
Sigma Nu

SHARON ELLER
Pi Kappa Phi

Spring is madness, a quiet sort of irrational sensitivity to something big happening that often erupts, is less quiet, is loud. It plays records loudly, delights in the singular sound of a baseball bat connecting, and loves to throw beer cans at road signs. It is also the madness that looks from the slow but constant entertainment of the season itself to the more unnatural and faster that is planned. The weekend has six thousand dollars worth of the latter in two big concerts, heavily salted to the folk-singing side, from button-down college to Negro. Bud and Travis, who put the olive in folk music, and the Four Saints who can dabble in just about anything and have it come out far better than dabbling, fill the first part of Saturday night. Friday has the Serendipity Singers, who echo Davidson cries of “don’t let the rain come down,” and Joe and Eddy, who assert that definitely, “there’s a meeting here tonight.” And Fred Smoot.

Beyond this there is the madness of parties, of everything that tries to capture printempomania in a form and exult in it. There is the yearly attempt to wrest vine leaves from elusive woods deities and wear them for a moment yourself, and to feel for an instant the glory of new leaves, new life.

* * *

(Staff photo by The!)

PEEN TURNER
Kappa Alpha

SHAROLYN HOOSE
Sigma Phi Epsilon

Spring is vespers, in an offhanded way. For Davidson religion tells of the annual mystery of resurrection. And though it was cold Easter, soon nature followed the symbol, and death disappeared in pages torn off a calendar. The sun returns, and is worshipped; the miracle happens while few hold their breath wondering if perhaps this year winter will last forever. The assertion of thingsand people that for now they will not die takes place, in an obscure corner, but the weekend finds expression of this, cloaked and concealed. The mayhem of buffets, concerts, and interminable Sundays, of Thursday night at Hattie’s and Saturday afternoon at the river — this all is the feeling of immortality, the heir of spring, the feeling that like the season, we who see it each year are young and shall never die but come again.

SANDRA LINEBERGER
Phi Gamma Delta
Phi Delta Theta

ANN THAYER
BARBARA FULP
Sigma Alpha Epsilon

JUDY RICE
Kappa Sigma

* * *

Spring Is A Woman (And Love Is A Girl-Child)

Spring, and its frolics, is lilacs, for April is the cruelest month which breeds that flower out of dead desire. The mad and proud belief in life is not constant, and there is often silence to listen for what the coy season says. For all winter the truth that nature held was naked as her trees, and truth naked is somehow easy to pass over. But spring clothes whatever truth there be in its new clothes, and whispers its hard sayings as a coquette. The season of exuberance will lead to summer, then to fall, and then to winter, and it shall all come ‘round. If Samuel Butler declared that youth, like spring, is an overrated season, he at least established an implicit association of the two. From desires already dead and those that are to die, the frolic of spring is born in its lilacs again. The wild story of gods in the sun and new trees, of madness, of resurrection in Bermudas, of Madras and madness comes again for those who see it. The amorphous assumption of immortality comes again, and there is nothing to do but accept it.

(Staff photo by Thel)

NATURE AT REST

“Two soles draw near... Yes my God and yes my Ethical Code and yes my Allah, Woman! Woman, who is a spray-netted max-factored my-sinned mass of rubber and madras. Woman, who does the dog, shaking her body in a frenzy that would shame a Mau-Mau medicine man. I sing praise to you woman, I worship and adore you. I hang on your every cliche, your every line which you have memorized thoroughly. ‘I need you woman for you are the answer to my physical need.’

And you Girl-child; and you silly Girl-child. Your uninhibited innocence has no place here. This you must learn, Girl-child. Cover your face before you blind somebody. Cover your body before you make somebody think a pure simple thought. You say too much child and you say it too clearly. You love too much, child, and you love too freely... but fear not...

For woman will take you and she will give you a new birth, the new birth of Spring, and with this Spring you will lose your freedom, you will lose your power to love. Yes, with this Spring you will become woman, and you will take from man that which can fill his greatest need. Woman, until you are Girl-child and until Spring is love, until then, man is animal, an animal that longs to be man as he plays his role with you. Spring is here, women and animals, and love just a tear away.

—Sidney Farrar