FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1964

(Staff Photo by Thel)

FRED EHLERS AND JOSE BORRAJERO Discuss Plans For PRAM

Foreign Student Forms Inter-American Group

Fred Ehlers, Richardson Scholar from Ecuador, is not unaccustomed to public attention. At home, he initiated a youth cultural organization (“The Voice of Youth”) that quickly gained public attention through a newspaper column, a radio and a television show. On arriving at Davidson, Ehlers was struck with the possibilities of an international cultural exchange within the Americas. Not being one to keep such ideas to himself, he launched his latest venture—Project of the Americas (PRAM).

PRAM is designed to become a permanent cultural exchange program, organized around Davidson College and “The Voice of Youth.” Initially, it is hoped that 10-12 Piedmont scholars can travel to Ecuador next summer, live there about six weeks, and speak with civic and cultural groups about American patterns of life and thought. “In 1966 and '67," Ehlers ventured, “We hope to carry on a dual exchange with students from both Ecuador and the United States participating. In 1968 we would like to spread into Colombia and Peru and eventually make this a project of all the Americas.” He continued, “Young people have a force to create—as well as to destroy. In this organization, we are trying to show that this creativity can be implemented. We take this college as the beginning and as our center.”

Tryouts Open To Select Players In Coming Drama

The Davidson College Drama Department will hold tryouts for Anouilh’s Thieves' Carnival Wednesday and Thursday nights in Hodson Hall beginning at 7:30. All members of the Davidson community are invited to try out. The cast calls for 10 men and four women all with a flair for comedy. Among the men’s roles are: three blundering thieves—the leader and his two young apprentices, all of whom romp through the play with numerous disguises; a rich country bumpkin and his father; a stately, befuddled English lord; and a group of wacky policemen. The major women’s roles consist of the elderly Lady Hurf, a charming but bored English noblewoman who sees the masquerade as a diverting game, and her two lovely young nieces who are looking for romance. Copies of the script are on overnight reserve in the College Library or may be obtained by contacting the Drama Office.

Ehlers will follow his Davidson assembly address with a similar talk at Queens on December 16. His organization has gained the attention of area newspapers, civic organizations, and educators—all of whom are bidding for his time. Fred Ehlers has just been named the Davidson Representative to a Student Council Conference being held at Texas A & M, December 9-12. The topic will be “Challenges To The Americas. Pan American Friends: Promise or Threat.” The Davidson PRAM chapter now has 32 members and has already branched out to include a group at Queens. Other Piedmont schools have indicated a desire to participate.

What does Ehlers hope to accomplish? “In order to be friends, we (US and Latin America) have to start by knowing each other. Latins must know that there is culture in the United States, that you have a religion, that you are creating a great society. And that the real people, its young generation, like you here at Davidson, are willing to be friendly.” As many are finding, Ehlers is not to be taken lightly. He believes in the purposes and in the feasibility of his organization. The close of his recent assembly address gave voice to this conviction. “Finally, I would like to say to all of you that I, like the rest of the members of PRAM, am going to fight until our ideals become a reality, because we think that the time has come in Latin America and in the U.S. for somebody to say the truth and for somebody to accept.”

Next Wednesday night Ehlers will conduct a meeting of the local PRAM chapter and he has invited all who are interested in the organization's ideals to attend. The time and location of the meeting will be announced early next week.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Abbott
Clark
King
Partridge
Abernethy
Fogleman
McGavock
Puckett
Blackwell
Fredericksen
Martin, D. G.
Williams, T. A.
Bliss
Hogan
Meeks
Woods
Bliss
Hopkins
Outlaw
Workman

Miss Brittain Attends Library Conference

Miss Carrie L. Brittain, Davidson Circulation librarian, attended a conference in September at the Institution of Government at Chapel Hill on publications at the city and state level. The conference dealt with the value and availability of such documents as financial, health, and crime reports and plans for future city or state development. Although subscribing to a large number of such publications would be impossible, Miss Brittain said that the library is now able to obtain any such material upon student request. A similar conference will be held at Chapel Hill next fall on publications of the United Nations.

The Green Sheet, a monthly evaluation of current movies, is now being posted in the lobby of the library. Miss Brittain commented that a number of students and residents of Davidson have called the library asking for ratings on movies and that The Green Sheet, a publication of the Motion Picture Association of America, is “tops” in this field. She added that “it is one of the most broad-minded publications of its type, for it gives a true rating of each movie.” As well as indicating for which age groups the films are suitable, the sheet tells which of them were adapted from books or plays.

The new Ducostat machine in the library is able to reproduce any written material for student use. Miss Brittain commented that the library had a similar machine on a trial basis last year and that the current one is made possible by a school subsidy. The machine reproduces material on a reduced scale since it is illegal to make an exact copy.

‘The Island’ Presents Image Of Japanese Life

By CHARLES VICK

A review

It is a poem. That is the best way to describe the latest Union film. The Island is a Japanese production with an impact of much broader base. The plot is life unstructured, the technique entirely visual and the beauty intense. On an island off Japan a family lives its life. Water is the essential item of their existence. Each day begins with a trip to the mainland for water, four buckets in an ancient boat. The rhythm of the oar, the wave, the movement to and from the land and the life of these people are one. The eldest son goes to school, and he must be taken each day and returned each night. The mother strokes the boat in and gets the child and more precious water. The island rises straight from the sea and the water must be carried to the fields which cover every available foot of land. The mother stumbles, the water is lost and the father slaps her. She gets up and works.

This film is not to be described. These words mean nothing without the image. A world of subsistence and function is the island. Everyone moves his ordered way. These are peasants. They do not wonder at themselves or their lot. In small things they find laughter. The boys catch a fish and on a trip to sell it the family looks at the city, eats and goes home to water trips and plants and more work. The watering of the plants is the guide to the visual image. The water is poured gently above the plant, just so much. The soil takes it and it is gone. And so another trip and more water. This is the rhythm. The eldest son sickens and dies. The rhythm continues. The priest comes with the child’s classmates and the soil takes him and he is gone. Grief stricken, both the parents understand. They say nothing. Their faces are so closed. You feel so at the first, and yet in glances you begin to see more than words. So the trips continue. Again at the top of the island the wife, so strong before, becomes wholly woman and turns over her bucket and weeps. The husband watches, waits and then turns to his plants, gently pours the water above them. The soil takes it and it is gone, the only answer.

The photography is excellent. The film is excellent. It is unfortunate so few people attend these presentations. The Film Friends will present Bed and Sofa, a silent Russian film. Sid Farrar will give piano accompaniment to this classic. Try to see this one. These films are valid pieces of art and worth the time and the effort.thought. Charles Vick. Miss Brittain added that the Ducostat is especially helpful in reproducing material from books which do not circulate from the library and in copying illustrations.

World Travel Reactions
By WAYNE MIXON
Davidson Student in Germany

Immediately after crossing the border and leaving France, a country that continues to do little but squeeze the last drop out of life itself which is marked by a religiously observed two-hour lunch break, West Germany appears as a section of the industrial area of the United States set down in central Europe. Nowhere else in Europe are superb expressways filled so dangerously beyond capacity with traffic, carrying cargo and people all over such a rich country. Everything across the country appears neatly and systematically arranged, which hints toward the terrific German mentality of only doing exactly what you are told to do. When crossing a street the Germans do not move until the light so indicates; even when there is no traffic, they continue to stand and watch the light, waiting only to be led across. If a foreigner starts across when there is no traffic, the Germans will jump right in line and walk across also. The overwhelming opinion of most Europeans is that German mentality possesses no imagination or self-direction, and can be easily led and influenced in any way, which results in a nation of pedantic, non-questioning followers.

In contrast, one can observe that in the cities of France most streets are one way, a safety precaution largely because the French people will not stay on their own side of the road, and the other roads are without lines because it would have little effect on these people who daily practice the policy “use a rule to your own benefit”—if it is too much trouble, quote a rule and do nothing; however, if in real need, quote a rule which permits side-stepping around the first rule. The French are the individuals and do the unexpected; the Germans are followers and do the expected. The majority of Europeans are frightened by the German mentality of hard work and doing only what you’ve been told to do. The southern Europeans blast the mechanical-minded Germans with “you are missing life itself and all it has to offer,” and “cultural achievements are more important than highways and factories.” The standard of living in West Germany continues to rise above the rest of Europe, and southern Europeans, with or without their supposed cultural achievements, struggle to find some way to improve their economy so they too might enjoy a higher standard of living.

East Germany presents a most unusual situation. To many, it represents the biggest blunder that America has participated in since the war. Equipped with legal and international machinery for the joint management of all Germany, BUT by lack of communication, negligence, and almost pure laxity in responsibility, the Western sphere of direct influence is now cut off by many miles of barbed wire down the middle of Germany. In Berlin, there is the Wall. “How long has it been like this? Why doesn’t someone do something about it?” American tourists murmur and disgustedly shake their heads when a guide points out a cross erected to indicate where a 57-year-old lady jumped to freedom, but died doing it. Undoubtedly the largest propaganda gimmick that anyone will ever uncover in all of Eastern Europe is committed by the West. It is the contrast of descriptions of a modern, well-made and throbbing “Free Berlin” with the dark, World War I in-rubbled slave camp of East Berlin. Away from the Wall, where on both sides there are still bombed-out buildings (in West Berlin, the investors don't want to build too close to the Wall, and why should the East Berliners do so either?), further on inside East Berlin there are areas which at night, with big neon lights and all the apparent signs of “free life” advertised in West Berlin—crowded streets and people buying more than just essentials—do match those sections of West Berlin. There are many new apartment buildings, wide streets are lined with consumer goods stores, young children have bicycles, boys have good-looking girlfriends, and fathers push baby carriages as mothers walk alongside; yet there remain signs which become more subtle every day that these people are not really free to say and do as they want. The majority of young students feel it is to their advantage to take Russian, not English (all young students in West Germany study English at age 9); an artificial exchange rate accents the situation that things are not as the people would have them, but rather controlled (the arbitrary setting of one East German mark equal to one West German mark, a 300 percent increase in market value); Soviet flags fly on street corners alongside those of East Germany; numerous soldiers are on the streets and a rumor is overheard that someone just escaped into Free Berlin. This year marked the 45th anniversary of the founding of the East Germany Republic, and a large exhibition hall was filled with the accomplishments of the “great East German people who have freed themselves from the yoke of fascism and imperialistic capitalism.” This small but adequate exhibi-

(Continued on Page 6)

PAGE THREE

After Vespers Open House
Joint Concert Will End Shakespearean Festival

The Male Chorus and Wind Ensemble will present a joint program of Shakespearean-related music tonight at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. Admission is free. The Male Chorus, under the direction of Donald Plott, will present a group of three Shakespearean songs in a setting by Thomas Arne. Rufus Hallmark, tenor, will be the featured soloist in this group. He will be accompanied by a woodwind quintet composed of William Norfleet, flute; Stephen Barden, oboe; Richard Vines and Sheffield Owen, clarinets; and John Bordley, bassoon. Hallmark will also be the soloist in Constant Lambert's “Dirge” from Cymbeline by Shakespeare. The chorus will also sing Ben Johnson’s “Drink To Me Only With Thine Eyes” and Ernest Bullock's “To Music, To Becalm His Fever.” Soloists in these numbers will be baritone Dupre Jones and Hallmark. The Wind Ensemble, directed by Dr. Grier Williams, will perform Mendelssohn's “Wedding March” from A Midsummer Night’s Dream, “Overture” to Coriolanus, and “Second Concerto for Clarinet” from von Weber's Polacca. Soloist for the latter number will be Richard Vines. Works by Wagner and Porter will also be played. The Ensemble will close the program with Norman Dello Joio's “Variants on a Mediaeval Tune” (In dulci Jubilo). This work, commissioned by the Mary Duke Biddle Foundation for the Duke University Band, premiered on April 10, 1963. This program ends the college's celebration of Shakespeare’s 400th anniversary.

Male Chorus In Need Of Funds

The Male Chorus presently needs an additional $2,000 in order to finance its European concert tour for next summer. According to Prof. Donald B. Plott, director of the chorus, approximately $21,000 has been raised among the chorus members and from private donations. However, the magic number that has to be reached is $23,000. Plott commented on this shortage by saying, “Since we're only $2,000 away from our goal, it is almost definite that we are going. But until all the money comes in, our plans have to remain at the tentative stage.”

In an effort to raise more funds for their trip, the members sponsored the recent varsity-freshman basketball game. Having been originally planned by William C. Bondurant, director of alumni relations, this event netted a profit of slightly over $400, as well as some valuable publicity in many area newspapers. Bondurant has been in charge of the financial details of the project. Besides working to publicize the trip and gain donations, he has also been trying to arrange transportation for the chorus. However, all such plans regarding transportation and itinerary cannot be confirmed until a later time after the finances have been assured. Any student interested in accompanying the chorus and any person who would like to contribute to the trip fund are encouraged to contact Bondurant.

BEST OF LUCK to the ‘CATS!
Make Orvin Court Your Headquarters For The Best Accommodations In Charlotte
Orvin Motor Court
307 N. Graham St.
The Fun Begins at —
“JUST UP THE ROAD...”
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 332-4112

Rendezvous in La Roma
Charlotte at Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1549 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Go Wildcats! Go All The Way
Tate-Brown’s Wishes the Very Best for the Wildcat’s ‘64-'65 Season!
And You Davidson Men ... Remember to make Tate-Brown’s your headquarters in Charlotte!
GO RIGHT... with...
GANT
LONDON FOG
COLLEGE HALL
WEEJUNS
ALAN PAINE
H. FREEMAN
MADISONAIRE
... ALL (and more) FROM TATE-BROWN’S NATURAL SHOULDER SHOPS (Now THREE of Them!)
126 South Tryon — 3rd Floor
Cotswold — West Mall
Park Road Shopping Center