PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1964

Fraternities Select Officers Following School Elections

Following on the heels of Student Body elections, the social fraternities have elected officers for next year. Those major officers
elected include:

Alpha Tau Omega — president, Jim Stokes; vice-president, Ronnie Reese; secretary, Dave Hardeman; treasurer, David Grant.

Beta Theta Pi — president, Ed Haselden; vice president, David Walker; corresponding secretary, Johnny Jeter; recording secretary, Steve Humphrey; treasurer,
Jim Bradley.

Kappa Alpha — president, Charlie Marshall; vice-president, Merry Hardy; secretary, Dick Bates; treasurer, Ben Moore.

Kappa Sigma — president, Alex Bernhardt; vice-president, Jim Ferguson; secretary, Butch Allison; treasurer, Jim Beasley.

Phi Delta Theta — president, John Barrow; vice-president, Steve Davidson; secretary, Hugh Allen; treasurer, Paul Stotts.

Phi Gamma Delta — president, Bruce Swain; vice-president, Rick Brand; corresponding secretary, Ted Pulliam; recording secretary, Dale Keller.

Pi Kappa Alpha — president, Tom White; vice-president, Leon Whitehead; secretary, Chris Hawk; treasurer, Charles Raynal.

Pi Kappa Phi — president, Bobby Waites; secretary, Frank Gibbes; treasurer, Jim Hardwick.

Sigma Chi — president, Paul Reichardt; vice-president, Mac Mays; secretary, Mac McIver; treasurer, Star Evins.

Sigma Nu — president, Dale Joyner; vice-president, Kerr Thompson; secretary, Jeff Pearson; treasurer, Bill Burch.

Sigma Phi Epsilon — president, Bob Graham; vice-president, David James; corresponding secretary, John Bordley; treasurer, Robert Hayes; recording secretary, Jim
Littrell.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon will not elect officers until later in the year.

Lingle Manor After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Applewhite, Bondurant, Causey, Cole, Frey, Ghigo, Gift, Hampton, Johnson, Lester, McGill, Mansour, Mebane, Parker, Pinkerton, Purcell, Reid, Sailstad, Thies, White,
H. E. Winkler, N. M. Kilpatrick.

To Speak In Y’s Racial Series

BY PAUL SIMPSON

James Kilpatrick, editor of the Richmond Times-Dispatch, will be the first speaker in the YMCA’s three-program series on the racial
crisis, speaking Tuesday in chapel. “Those on campus and elsewhere who generally associate the YMCA with civil rights marches, petitions,
letters, and so forth, will be in for a surprise,” Y president Joe Howell said. Kilpatrick is “one of the
most able and articulate segregationists in the U.S. today.” He has appeared numerous times on television, engaging civil rights leaders
in debate. James Farmer and Roy Wilkins are just two of the Negro leaders who have been confronted with his
penetrating defense of the Southern position.

On Friday, May 8, those who were surprised the week before will have their old suspicions reconfirmed when James Silver
rides in with the banner for integration. Silver is well-known as the professor of history at the University of Mississippi
who has received much persecution as a result of his numerous stands for integration. After being in Oxford for thirty
years, however, he has chosen to remain and comes with an engrossing tale of what is going on down in
his region of the Deep South.

Silver, who has worked closely with James Meredith—the Negro at Ole Miss and a history major—labeled Mississippi a “closed society”
in a lecture as president of the Southern Historical Association. Silver will arrive on campus Thursday night, May 7, and
speak in the Morrison Room on “William Faulkner as I Knew Him.” And know him Silver did. According to Dean
Frontis Johnston: “Silver knew Faulkner over twenty years and was one of his few very close friends.” Thursday chapel will
be switched to Friday to accommodate Silver's late arrival.

The appearance of the third and last man in the racial crisis series, Herbert Hill, on Monday, May 11, will
greatly strengthen that first mentioned student attitude toward the Y. Hill, the NAACP labor secretary, is one of the foremost
leaders in the Negro revolution. To those who criticize the Y for stacking the “for-against” deck at two to one,
it might be said that Alabama’s Governor Wallace was originally intended to even the slate. The Union Roundtable Committee had
managed to secure in January his promise to pay us a visit. However, Governor Wallace seems to find the intoxicating
campaign trails considerably more inviting than the dry campus at Davidson.

Library Seeks Increase Of $44,000 In Budget

BY BUCK LAWRIMORE

The Davidson College Library has requested a budget increase of $44,000 for operation and expansion during 1964-65. If the request
is approved, the present budget of $93,000 would be upped to $137,000. “I have every hope that with the backing
of the budget by the administration the trustees will approve the total request in May,” President D. Grier Martin has
predicted.

The increase breaks down into two parts. Only $2,000 has been asked over the regular budget of last year to
cover rising operating costs. The remaining $42,000 is the total estimate required to satisfy the faculty members’ desires for books
in their particular fields. “This estimate was compiled in cooperation with the Self-Study Program now underway,” explained the library's director,
Chalmers Davidson. “We requested faculty members to make a survey of books and periodicals in their fields on hand in
the library now, then to request whatever they thought would be necessary to make our supply adequate.

“I think that the $42,000, as large as it is, will still not be quite enough to make us adequate.
I regret that apparently faculty members misunderstood our requests for their surveys and did not ask for all they could
really use,” he added. Davidson said that he and the Library Committee sent out three requests for lists of desired
books, but that some of the faculty still did not respond as he had desired.

“A number of teachers did not take the time to check what was on hand or to carefully itemize the
books wanted and their costs,” he said. “I really hope that this was because they were too busy or misunderstood
our interests—I don't like to think anyone was too lazy.”

Davidson requested the administration to “make a very special effort to get this money,” and Martin has assured him and
THE DAVIDSONIAN that they would. In case individual faculty members want more books after the budget has been approved by
the trustees, Davidson said that an Excess Fund of some $6,000 has been set aside for that and similar needs.

“We never ask for library staff raises in our budget, either,” he noted, “but for the past six or seven
years we have gotten one, so perhaps the budget will be even higher when approved.” He said that the budget
does not include expenses for janitors and basic maintenance like water and electricity, but that the college itself handles those
costs.

“It's interesting that the library has requested an extra amount so close to $40,000,” President Martin observed. “The Duke Endowment
has granted us $20,000 for expansion of the library next year, on the condition that we match them with the
same amount. So the library's requests fit in well with our agreement with Duke.”

Vagabond Production To Spoof Government

Two Blind Mice, a Broadway comedy hit, will open in Hodson Hall Thursday night as part of the 1964 Fine
Arts Festival. This third and final major presentation of the Drama and Speech Department will run through Saturday. Curtain time
is 8:15.

Written by Samuel Spewack, the comedy, a satire on government production, features Neal Bushoven as the clever journalist; Alex Bernhardt
as Major Groh, USAF; Bill Foster as Lt. Col. Robbins, USAF; Dick Forrester as Commander Jellico, USN; Woody Cleveland as
Dr. Henry McGill, the new fiancé of Thurston's ex-wife.an unwelcome circumstance. When Bozo speaks, Davidson listens.

Juilliard Foursome Closes 1964-65 Artists’ Concerts

The Juilliard String Quartet will perform with its Stradivari instruments in the last program of the 1963-1964 Davidson College Artists
Series Tuesday night at 8:15. In their countless concerts since the inception of the Juilliard String Quartet in 1946, these
four artists have traveled throughout the United States and Canada, in Europe on both sides of the Iron Curtain, and
in the Middle and Far East, as well as Russia.

First violinist Robert Mann was born in Portland, Oregon where he also received his initial musical training. Mann is a
Juilliard alumnus, having studied violin there under Edouard Dethier, in addition to perfecting his considerable talents as a composer. Isidore
Cohen, the second violinist, is a native New Yorker and also an alumnus of Juilliard, where he studied under Ivan
Galamian. Violist Raphael Hillyer was born in Ithaca, New York and studied violin privately with Serge Korgueff before entering the
Curtis Institute in Philadelphia. The Quartet’s cellist, Claus Adam, was born in Indonesia, the son of an ethnologist father and
a lieder-singer mother. He attended schools in Europe, beginning his formal musical education at the comparatively late age of fourteen.

Monday morning, candidate Burleson outlined his platform with one key remark: “I want to take the tax load off the
people of North Carolina and put it on horses and dogs.” He went on to estimate that open bars, legalized
gambling, and state-owned tracks would bring one-and-a-half billion dollars per year into the state coffers. But there was more. “Bozolands”
would be established for the state's elderly citizens; surplus agricultural products (mainly eggs) would be sold to Northern universities experimenting
with such things as a new egg roll; a “super-integration” program would leave everything up to local initiative. “I believe
in everybody being treated fair.”

“What,” asked a leading campus Humanist, “About legalized prostitution?” In reply, Bozo first upheld the institution of marriage and went
on to promise that “Streetwalkers will get shots every week, whether they need them or not. I'll send them all
to CCC camps and learn them (At this point, Bozo broke up in laughter) a skilled trade. A real bunch
of queens will flock to this state and it’s up to you young men to take advantage of it.” The
Humanist nodded, as though in approval.

Habitual interrogator Jonas Lonnroth countered with another question— “Where I come from, we have some of the innovations you propose
but still 50 per cent of the cost of government comes through taxation; how can you do better?” Burleson began,
“Only the federal government will get a cut of the state proceeds: to hell with the underworld. Where are you
from—New York?” When Lonnroth replied that he was from Sweden, Bozo was still undaunted. “I suggest you bring in two
or three top management men. You ought to start moving some men out of office... or uh—you know what I
mean.”

Bruce Burleson, performer, is an interesting study. He was graduated from Western Carolina College in 1951 with a major in
PE and a minor in history. (“I put Western Carolina on the map with my wrestling and I'll put this
state on the map with my program.”) After a year in Baltimore, he moved to California and worked part time
on a masters in education at USC. He tried out for the Pan-American Games in 1955 and for the U.S.
Olympic team in 1956. That same year, he turned professional and began his wrestling career. At present, Burleson is an
employee of the Hicks Corporation in Asheville and is on leave of absence without pay while conducting his campaign, which
he has been planning since 1959. Bozo requests that any contributions or communications be sent to Box 8073, Asheville.

Candidate Burleson made his share of campaign promises: an ABC store in Davidson, a dog track in Davidson (“if I
need the money”), a monorail in Charlotte (“to help ease the flow of traffic to and from the track”), open
bars for those over 18, and a bingo division at the Highland Games on Grandfather Mountain (“the state will get
its cut”). When the end came most were ready for it; but the change in tone was surprising. “I've had
some bad luck but someday I'll hit it lucky. Right here is the place to move me right into office.”
The question was raised, after Raleigh what follows—the White House? “I don’t know,” said Burleson, “but I figure after this
race and if I lose I can get me a pretty good job, you know? And I just might move
down to South Carolina and run there in a few years...”

Dr. Marcus Bloch, L-Hy President Eastern Magical Society P. O. Box 118 New York 9, N. Y.

PIZZA Also Delicious Hamburgers Cheeseburgers Bar-B-Q Hot Dogs French Fries THICK SHAKES SCRUMPTIOUS SUNDAES Just Down

Ross Donnelly, Charlie Brenner of the New York Times; Eddie Craig, Ensign Jamison. Also Andy Sale, John Hall, Bill Vermilye,
Bedford Aiken and Monty Wilkinson have parts in the play. Mrs. Frontis Johnston and Miss Nancy Copeland highlight the several
members of the Davidson community who are in the play.

The following chart was prepared for the Library Committee. The figures represent the number of dollars in library expenditure for
each student at the college. Figures for the current year are not yet available for other colleges:

Several individuals have helped construct the elaborate set.

There is an infinite difference that really sets a Milton M-2 button-down shirt apart. The perfect roll collar almost guaranteeing
approval. There is an infinite difference that really sets a Milton M-2 button-down shirt apart. The perfect roll collar that
evokes more compliments than any shirt you've ever worn, just right body taper, longer collar that adds that sartorial touch
under a jacket, long sleeves with double pleats at the cuff as an added touch, plus longer trimmer half sleeves,
all in finest impeccable single needle tailoring. Long or half sleeves at same price.

TASTEE FREEZ Cornelius Just time to get that second wind. Have a Coke. Coca-Cola — Its big, bold taste never
too sweet, goes great with food... refreshes best, puts zing in people.

Dr. Earl Wesley Morey, Jr. will explore the topic “Living in a Rhinoceros World” as guest speaker at vespers Sunday
evening. Chairman of the Drama and Speech Department Rupert T. Barber said, “The rehearsals have reached a crucial point in
that we are now concentrating on the tempo and pacing of the play. These two factors determine the success of
a comedy. I have been very pleased with the cast’s ability to cope with this problem and their patience with
the constant repetition necessary for a quality performance.”

A native of Maryland, Dr. Morey received his A.B. at Western Maryland College and his B.D. and Th.D degrees at
Princeton Theological Seminary. At present Dr. Morey serves as pastor at Saint Giles Presbyterian Church in Richmond, Virginia. He is
listed in “Who’s Who in Virginia,” and is a member of the Joint Presbyterian Committee on Worship.

Discover Why Milton's Is A Mecca For The Cognoscenti. Milton's Clothing Cupboard Charlottetown Mall Cupboards also in Chapel Hill, Atlanta
and Dallas

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord Concord, North Carolina
