Che Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

“ROOM SEARCH” DEFENDED (See Page Two)

VOL. LII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1964 NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

Two Professors Win Grants For Research

Dr. William B. Patterson and Dr. Max Eugene Polley have been awarded grants by the Board Of Christian Education of
the Presbyterian Church, U.S. These grants will be used toward further study or special research projects. Dr. Patterson, assistant professor
of history, and Dr. Polley, associate professor of religion, are two of three North Carolina professors to receive the grants.

A “Grant-In-Aid for Improvement in Teaching” was awarded to Dr. Patterson, who will do his work at Harvard using the
resources of the University library and consultation with several scholars in the field of history. The fellowship for Dr. Patterson
will enable him to do research concerned with the development of English historical writing in the 16th and 17th centuries,
particularly the works of Thomas Fuller. Professor Patterson and family will live in Cambridge for the three summer months.

Patterson, a native of Greensboro, was a Rhodes Scholar in 1953-55 and returned to Oxford University for research during the
1962-63 school year, coming to Davidson this past fall.

Dr. Polley, who has received a Lilly Post-Doctoral Grant in addition to the Grant-In-Aid from the Board of Christian Education,
has received a sabbatical from Davidson College and will do research next year at Regent's Park College at Oxford. Working
on a book for Duke University Press on “The Contributions of H. Wheeler Robinson to Old Testament Studies,” Dr. Polley
and his family will sail for England on July 6, spending 12 months at Oxford and returning to Davidson in
August of 1965.

A native of Buchanan, Mich., Dr. Polley did research at Oxford in the summer of 1959 on a Southern Presbyterian
and Southern Fellowship Grant-In-Aid, and came to Davidson in January of 1956.

Will Herberg, the Reynolds Lecturer scheduled to speak in chapel next Tuesday, telegrammed Dean Frontis Johnston earlier this week to
inform him that he was seriously ill and in the hospital after returning from Europe. Dean Johnston said there will
probably not be another Reynolds Lecturer this spring because it is rather late in the year for securing speakers. Herberg,
besides his chapel appearance, would have spoken to the YMCA Forum Tuesday night, but Lanier Burns, president of the YMCA,
cancelled this session upon learning of Herberg's illness.

ROBERT W. SCOTT, candidate for lieutenant governor of North Carolina in the Democratic primary next month, was on campus Wednesday.
He spoke informally with students and faculty members at the College Union during the chapel hour period. His visit was
sponsored by the Young Democrats Club, which is attempting to arrange visits from other candidates before the May election. (Staff
Photo by Thel)

Council Goes On Record: Opposes Mississippi Move
BY HARRY CARR

Issuing a protest of the proposed move to revoke the charter of Tougaloo College, Mississippi’s only integrated institution, the Student
Council will write the Governor and other state officials concerned. As the Council adopted the move on Monday night, they
chose not to circulate a petition to accompany the letter. Like the letter, the petition would have shown student disapproval
of the proposed legislation to close the predominately Negro college. The National Student Association had requested response from all its
members on the matter.

The council also voted Monday night to donate the offering from the remaining vespers services to the John F. Kennedy
Memorial Library Fund if the YMCA approves. Former President John Spratt explained that the Fund is accepting money to build
a student room in the library to be built on the campus of Harvard University. Contributors may sign a register
in the College Church. These names will be recorded within the special room.

1964-65 President Will Jackson explained to the group that they were now honor-bound to observe all Student Body Regulations, as
well as the Honor Code. While he emphasized that Council members were not obligated to seek out violators, Jackson told
the group that they must report all infractions which come under their observation.

Davidson Debaters Capture Awards

Novice debaters Cliff Kirkpatrick and Don Leslie took first place in a national query tournament last weekend at Old Dominion
College. Arguing both sides of the query: “Resolved, that the federal government should guarantee an opportunity for higher education to
all qualified high school graduates,” the two won all five of their debates. Varsity debater Skip Jones received the second
place individual speaker award; Kirkpatrick copped a first place individual award in the novice category. Facing opposition from such schools
as Duke, Princeton, Johns Hopkins, Temple, and Hampden-Sydney, Jones and partner Conrad Shumadine won three of their five debates. Duke
took the varsity team laurels. Commented the Davidson debaters’ adviser, Mrs. Grace Lilly, “I couldn't be any more pleased with
the record in this tournament.”

In other business, Jackson asked the council's cooperation in compiling summer reading lists from each professor. He also recognized a
unanimous motion thanking Walt McDonald for his “outstanding service as chairman of the Elections Committee.”

New Union Board Members Honored At Large Banquet
BY DAVID COFFEY

The new Union Board was installed Wednesday night at the annual Union banquet. All Union officers and committee chairmen are
members of the Board. Several members of the Board were given special recognition at the banquet. Zach Long’s Special Features
and Displays Committee was chosen the most effective committee. Paul Simpson received the award as the most effective committeeman for
his work with the Open End Program. Seniors Sam Glasgow, Charlie Shappard, and George Worthen, outgoing Board members, were also
honored, and appreciation was expressed to C. Shaw Smith for his work on behalf of the Union.

Steve Bunch, new Union president, announced that Simpson, Long, Gordon Ball, Sid Farrar, Graham Yarborough, Stuart DuPuy, Bob Groat, and
John Rankin, had agreed to continue as chairmen of their committees. New committee chairmen include Emory Brown, John Compton, Clark
Laster, Walt Drake, John Hash, and Ken Essex. The Board will vote soon to elect a Union Vice-President.

Bunch also revealed plans for a Joint Campus Committee on Student Travel. Members of the new committee will be chosen
from the Union Board, Student Council, student body, and, perhaps, the YMCA. The committee will draw on information provided by
the NSA and Davidson’s new Junior Year Abroad to arrange both domestic and international student tours.

During the banquet, the outstanding billiards and table tennis players were recognized. Pete Burton, three-cushion billiard champion, Chum Roberts, pocket-billiard
champion, and Staff Warren, ping-pong champion, were presented awards.

Faculty Committee Reports To Professors

The faculty heard a report on academic probation at its meeting Tuesday from its special committee studying the new regulations.
Action on the report will probably be taken at the next faculty meeting, President D. G. Martin reported. He opened
the meeting with a report on the self-study program which Davidson has begun and will participate in for another year
and a half. This self-evaluation is required periodically by the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, and involves almost
every area of the college, including academics, physical plant, budget and other items. Davidson professors will submit reports in various
areas, after which a committee composed of other college administrators will make a survey of their own and report their
findings to the college and to the Association. Martin pointed out that while Davidson is not in danger of losing
its accredited standing, such a self-study should be valuable in discovering “what will be helpful to ourselves.”

In other business, additional committee members were elected and a number of curriculum changes were approved. Appointed to the admissions
committee was Dr. Frank W. Bliss; to the curriculum committee, Dr. George L. Abernethy; and to the executive committee, Dr.
Daniel D. Rhodes. Student leaders appointed to the faculty curriculum committee are Student Body President Will Jackson, Student Body Vice
Presidents Andy Little and Bill Council, Honor Court Chairman Hugh Allen, Senior Class President Fred Sackett, and Charlie Dibble, editor
of THE DAVIDSONIAN.DAVIDSONIAN. Approved by the faculty were several recommendations from the present curriculum committee. The first was one to
increase the maximum transfer credit from 60 to 64 hours; one set the maximum credit for the Junior Year Abroad
Program at 33 hours; and minor changes in the names and descriptions of several courses were made.

It can undoubtedly be said that Stitt has had the toughest year of any editor in this newspaper's history because
his first two months at the desk were the stormiest in this paper's venerable life. Stitt’s sandals had gotten wet
last spring when a guy named Goodykoontz began a campaign for administrative support and encouragement of creativity on the Davidson
campus. The campaign was a little too open, and all who read this paper then know what happened to the
crusader. To repeat the story now would only open old wounds. But the story of Stitt, the man in the
middle of a cross-fire between the two sides that spring, has never been told. Perhaps he would prefer that it
not be told, but somehow it should be. It is a story in courage that does this press proud. Few
people following the Goodykoontz story in this paper could realize the position of the editor who tried to be fair
to both sides and tried courageously to present as much of the truth as could be obtained.

BY BILL FOSTER

Albert R. Karriker, who recently assumed his duties as a college security officer, currently walks the lonely night beat from
10 to 6. He is a long-time resident of the area who has held down various jobs, running from a
position with the Foremost Dairies to a spot in the insurance world. Karriker apparently is intent on making his new
job with the college a career. When asked why he became interested in the job, he at first jokingly replied,
"To get out of the insurance business." Then thinking for a moment, he explained, "After seeing that the job was
available, I realized that it gave me a real chance to settle down and get to work. It really appealed
to me." (Informed sources have said that Karriker will gradually take over many of the security duties of “Cop” Linker,
such as the securing of additional men to handle special events at the college. Linker does not plan to retire
any time soon, but the new man will take some of the responsibility from his shoulders.)

Presently, Karriker’s duties consist of the routine: seeing that no irregularities arise on campus, watching for persons of a suspicious
nature, and reporting any trouble with equipment of the physical plant. Karriker also watches for any fire hazards; and having
been associated with the local volunteer fire department, he brings quite a bit of experience with him in this line.
Grover Meetze, director of the physical plant, said in praise of his new cop, "I feel we are extremely fortunate
in getting a man with Mr. Karriker’s many assets." Karriker is married and has two children. His son will enter
Elon College next fall on a football scholarship; he also has a sixteen-year-old daughter. Karriker’s joining the security staff brings
its strength to the normal level of three full-time men. These officers are available to students in need; any person
who for any reason needs to contact one may go to the security office in the old slave quarters behind
Belk Dormitory or may phone there.

SANDALS AND SCANDALS

Ex-Editor Stitt takes repose after a successful year. Editor-Emeritus Flops Out With Goals Accomplished

BY TOM LOFLIN

Wearing flapping sandals, David Stitt entered THE DAVIDSONIAN office last spring and rested his half-shod feet on the editor’s desk.
It is now a new spring, and, bearing the alliterative title of Editor-Emeritus, he can today look back on a
year of memories while looking ahead over two short months to graduation.

Stitt had Goodykoontz for class, and his father is an important figure in the Presbyterian Church and a friend of
many people connected with the college. At times Stitt was berated, at least once before the class, by Goodykoontz for
his failure to see problems at Davidson. And Stitt can also tell how he used to dread to walk down
the first floor in Chambers where the inhabitants would pointedly ask, "How’s your father, Dave?" And yet never failing, Stitt
stayed on top of the story the entire spring. He analyzed every detail and then wrote his opinions in editorials
(1) supporting Goodykoontz's ideas on creativity, (2) condemning the professor for letting his campaign degenerate into a personal attack on
President D. G. Martin, (3) upholding Dean Frontis W. Johnston for accepting Goodykoontz's resignation with less than three weeks remaining
in the semester, (4) and then demanding explanations for the discrepancies in the statements of members of a trustee committee
when evidence suggested Johnston had violated the charter of the college in accepting the resignation as he did.

An explanation for the discrepancies was never forthcoming; rather the Board of Trustees reinstated Goodykoontz on a recommendation from the
committee in question. After the storms of that spring, which proved to be the most hazardous of the seasons for
Stitt, he settled down to carry out a three-pronged program to make THE DAVIDSONIAN a better paper: print some six-page
papers with highly interesting features; editorialize about things other than the drinking rule and compulsory vespers; and brighten the general
attitude of the paper, criticizing only in hopes of a positive gain. Stitt fully achieved each of his goals. He
put out four six-page editions, his crowning achievement being the political supplement of March 6, which received the most praise
on campus of any of his papers. He did write about other subjects besides drinking and vespers, and they were
issues worthy of comment. He called for faculty liberalization of the academic probation rule; it was liberalized to a degree.
He called for an end to the much-embattled faculty oath; the trustees compromised enough to stifle most critics while modifying
the oath somewhat. He wrote meaningful editorials on the great issue in the land today, civil rights, and had former
Associate Editor Tim Kimrey do a series of editorials on weaknesses in the library.

Finally, in the news and feature stories Stitt did obtain a brighter outlook on Davidson life. Yet he was not
afraid to run critical articles when they were called for. His biggest success was the series exposing the gross unsanitary
conditions in the college cafeteria. For a time, Slater had its house so untidy that it lost its health rating.
It now has it back, an "A." If anything happened while Stitt held down the editor's desk, it was that
he was criticized unjustly by certain members of the administration. For instance, Chaplain Will Terry was quite upset when this
paper ran a headline using the word "atheist" over a story about the fact that one of those animals would
appear alive and roaring on God's little acre here. And even the august and dedicated Board of Trustees took time
out from its deliberations to notice Stitt’s little paper. The group felt the paper's readers lacked adequate intelligence to realize
that the old masthead "The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College" does not mean the administration or the trustees
use THE DAVIDSONIAN for their official organ. So the paper's old masthead was retired. Stitt has now followed it, flapping
the same old sandals out of the office. But he left behind positive accomplishments that are making for a better
Davidson. And most important of all, he left a tradition of journalistic courage to inspire those who follow his sandal
steps.

ATTENTION!

A few coveted positions as staff reporter have been opened on the new DAVIDSONIAN staff. Anyone interested in news reporting
should contact News Editor Ron Snow in East 202 or any member of the newspaper staff. Any student interested in
sports reporting should contact Sports Editor Johnny Clark in Belk 372.
