PAGE FOUR

(Staff Photo by McCutchen)

EDITORIAL

CANDIDATES GAZE AT THE SPHERES

Foursome of Long, Eaton, Crow, and Newcomer (L-R) leave no room for McIver

Crow, Newcomer Seek S ’n P Title; Three Hopefuls For Editor Of Annual

Malcolm McIver is a his-

Pete Crow, present circulation manager of Scripts ‘n Pranks, is from Winston-Salem. He is an economics major and is Rush Chairman and IFC representative of Sigma U. I feel that the purpose of any good college magazine is: first, to provide humorous, entertaining material especially relevant to the college by which it is sponsored; second, if no other outlet is available, to provide a medium through which student writers may display their talents. Before anyone becomes inflicted with notions that the above is my platform in running for editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks, I would like to very quickly and very thoroughly remove one of the planks. If elected, I would publish an exclusively humor magazine; this is because the administration has agreed to relieve Scripts ‘n Pranks of its second responsibility by providing the funds for an additional publication of a more serious nature. By humorous I don’t mean the comic as opposed to the literary. I feel quite strongly that good, original humor has a high degree of literary value. Excellent college magazines, such as the Harvard Lampoon and the Texas Ranger, are of such a character. There are several reasons why I think that Scripts ‘n Pranks could make the conversion to humor without too much difficulty. For instance, a good humor magazine must have certain humorous characteristics to which the reader may look forward from issue to issue. A start at this has been made with the character, Ches R. Cat, although I feel that Ches R. could use quite a bit of refinement. Most important, I feel that the student body at Davidson wants a good humor magazine. In the past, serious literary works have all too often been used as fillers rather than as qualitative additions to the magazine. An edition of Scripts ‘n Pranks of a few years back carried the following cover title: “Literary (and budget) issue”...

NEWCOMER

Duncan Newcomer, a history major from Shawnee Mission, Kan., is a Beta and is vice-president of the Eumanean Literary Society. He has been awarded a Patterson contributory scholarship and plans to enter the ministry. Like “urging a luncheon companion to accept a cool lima bean” I say make me editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks. The writers on campus will hesitate to do so for they know I am no writer. The non-writers on campus will hesitate, for they are non-readers too and have not passed the picture-book stage. A cool lima bean differs little to them from any other kind of lima bean. Suddenly, therefore, the readers of this menu are reduced to a handful of connoisseurs, a cult of writers. To that cult I say the Scripts ‘n Pranks will be worth your best efforts next year—with me as chief chef—for S ‘n P will contain your best efforts, en casserole. I propose to cultivate the cult. (They're the ones who recognized the opening quote as Salinger’s introduction to Franny and Zooey.) As Chief-editor I will be a “lover of the long shot, protector of the unprolific, defender of the hopelessly flamboyant...”

Zach Long is a math major from Rockingham. A member of Le Cercle Francais, Long is activities editor of Quips and Cranks, manager of the swimming team, and a member of the Union Board and of Philanthropic Literary Society. Did you ever take time to analyze the composition of the picture in LIFE of Jacqueline Kennedy at the President's funeral, or to ponder the significance of the words, “I am the greatest,” appearing under a SPORTS ILLUSTRATED photograph of “the Mouth”? You probably didn’t because you didn’t need to—the fusion of picture and words was vibrant on the page—it conveyed its message without requiring examination for deeper meaning. Such fusion is essentially the purpose of an annual editor: to integrate expressive copy with animated photography in the most compatible combination. This will convey in turn the purpose of the college annual: to be a synoptic reflection of the personalities, actions, thoughts, achievements, and failures during the collegiate year. To produce such a pictorial history as this will require experience, imagination, planning, and much hard work. Having served two years as assistant to the classes editor and this year as editor of the Activities section, I feel I am capable of producing the blend of know-how, initiative, originality, experience, and imagination necessary to turn out an annual that completely depicts our contribution to the Davidson Story. Through contact with problems and possibilities of annual-creating and association with other section editors, I have formulated my own tastes for the composition of an annual. As examples, I would prefer to continue the informal faculty section. I believe that this is the way we really remember our mentors—their quips and their cranks. In addition to regular sports coverage, I advocate some attention to minor sports which give more to Davidson than a posed group picture would indicate. Color adds unlimited beauty and interest to an annual. However, color should be added discreetly and economically. I propose the continuation of the four-page fraternity spread in order to fully portray the position of our fraternities in proportion to what they give and demand from student life. For the activities section, I would continue the informal presentation for most of the organizations in order to clearly picture them as they exist. Informality here gives excellent contrast to formality in the honoraries section. With the help of an industrious staff of section editors, writers, and photographers, plus your support for my ability and purpose to edit the 1965 QUIPS AND CRANKS, I believe these and other plans and designs may be realized. I seek this support through your vote.

Cary Eaton, a chemistry major from Camden, S. C., is a photographer for Quips and Cranks. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon and of Philanthropic Literary Society. In this platform I do not wish to be explicit on details of the yearbook; rather I wish to explain in concise form those general ideas about the publication of an annual that I would follow if elected Editor. Photography, of course, is central in any yearbook. A good annual by its very nature must contain a wide variety of high-quality pictures. As Assistant Photographer for Quips and Cranks this year I feel uniquely qualified to handle this all-important phase of the yearbook. The planning and arrangement of photographs can best be achieved by an Editor-Photographer since he is familiar with both the graphical ideas and the technical aspects of a picture. A thorough knowledge of these requirements will greatly facilitate the work of the Section Editors and, most important, that of the staff photographers. If elected I will seek variety in pictures. I will attempt to avoid the commonplace picture and to accent the original and the unusual. At the same time, equal emphasis will be placed on print quality and pleasing composition. Through the integration of photography and prose I will strive to capture the identity of each class. Naturally, I will concentrate to some degree on the Class of 1965 and its distinct personality and achievements. If elected to the Editorship of Quips and Cranks, I will make an honest effort to obtain a representative sampling of student life at Davidson. Such a sampling will include more than a mere treatment of official campus organizations. It will also encompass the more informal aspects of the school year which are an integral part of campus life. I feel that there is a definite place for humor in an annual, though it should not be overemphasized. I will attempt to strike a proper balance between the humorous and more serious facets of the college. In sum, I feel qualified to handle the position of Editor and would appreciate the opportunity to publish a Quips and Cranks that will prove meaningful to the students both as an immediate account of the 1964-65 college year and as a permanent chronicle of the life and traditions at Davidson.in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead

Tory major from Richmond, Va. A member of Sigma Chi, McIver has served as faculty section editor and classes editor of Quips and Cranks. As a candidate for editor of Quips and Cranks, there are several things I would strive to carry out, if elected.

1. The yearbook has one sole purpose: to give an accurate, interesting, and complete account of the school year. As editor, I would keep this purpose in mind and at the same time incorporate originality, variation, and flexibility to make the book as interesting as possible to the student.

2. Pictures are the backbone of a good yearbook. If the pictures are not up to par and if they don’t adequately tell the story of the school year, then the whole yearbook suffers. As editor, I would try in every way to keep the excellent quality of pictures maintained in previous yearbooks. I would use as many color pictures as the budget permits, and I would use drawings and artwork whenever possible.

3. When the student thumbs through a yearbook, he seldom reads the copy. However, the copy in a yearbook has its important place, and as editor, I would keep the copy as interesting, complete, and brief as possible. Also, I would try in every way to do away with misspelled names both in captions and in the copy.

4. I would work closely with the business manager during the year and would always stay within the limits of the budget.

5. I would be open to any student suggestion or criticism on anything concerning the yearbook, and I believe that a contact should be maintained between the yearbook staff and the student body throughout the year.

6. If elected, I would fulfill my duties as editor to the best of my ability.

Young Democrats Organize Locally

A Young Democrats Club has been organized at Davidson College. Sam Grimes is chairman of the steering committee, and committees have been organized for drawing up a constitution, membership, programs, and projects. The club is a member of the national YDC. The club meets every Friday during chapel period and will hold a program meeting every third Thursday at 8 p.m. Dues are $1.00, 50 cents of which will go into the local treasury and 50 cents for the state YDC.

Charlotte, N. C. - THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1964

Union Will Begin Work On Ground Floor In May

BY BOB HOLLADAY AND ALLEN WEBS

Business Manager Robert Currie announced this week that within the next few months work would begin on the renovation and complete air conditioning of the College Union. Renovation should begin on the ground floor in the first part of May, after final architects’ plans have been approved and contracts awarded in the latter part of April. Limited use of upstairs facilities will be made available to summer school students while installation of the air-conditioning system is under way, but work should be completed by September.

Planning for new facilities began two years ago, when President D. G. Martin asked for and received from outside sources funds for a system that would meet the needs of the college’s increased enrollment. The main need was for extra space, which the now-realized addition to the Union, housing the Student Store, the Knowet Knook, and the games room, was devised to meet. Walls will be torn down, corridors erected, and new furnishings added on the ground floor of the main building. The finished product will be a Union food service area comprising new and redecorated dining rooms, a new snack bar set-up, and a remodeled kitchen area.

On the forward side of the Union running parallel with its length, plans call for two separately enclosed private dining areas. The smaller one will be available for small formal dinners. The larger area may be divided into three smaller areas by folding doors. This area will accommodate not only dinners and dinner meetings, but also jazz concerts, film study meetings, and any other activity that program chairmen of campus organizations may plan.

The cafeteria dining room will be separated from the snack bar by a passageway between the new addition and the snack bar which will direct the traffic around the dining room. Two cafeteria lanes will lessen the pressure when a greater than usual number of patrons appears on special occasions. The area previously occupied by the student store and the games room will be remodeled to furnish a dining area for the Student Organist Presents Program.

The Davidson College Department of Music will present Var Quinn in a program of organ music Sunday afternoon at 4 in the college church. Quinn, a junior from Gastonia, is the organist for the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. A Bible major, Quinn is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon and is president of the Davidson College chapter of the American Guild of Organists. He is the holder of the Theo. Presser Foundation music scholarship. Included on the program will be Buxtehude’s “Passacaglia in D Minor,” five sections of Frescobaldi’s “Kyrie Eleison,” and “O Sacred Head Now Wounded” by Brahms. The second half of the program will include works by Bach, “Death and Resurrection” by Jean Langlais, and will close with Marcel Dupre’s well-known “Magnificat.”

CANDIDATES FOR YMCA PRESIDENT, Lanier Burns (left) and Bill Rule meet before the election day. Burns is a history major from Knoxville, Tenn. He is Sigma Chi pledge trainer and a member of the YMCA Cabinet and of Philanthropic Literary Society. Rule is a psychology pre-ministerial student from Luluabourg, The Congo. A member of the YMCA cabinet, Rule is president of Westminster Fellowship and Philanthropic Literary Society. On the soccer and debate teams, Rule holds a W. T. Thompson Scholarship and sings in the Chapel Choir. (Photo by McCutchen)

ELECTION SCHEDULE

Mon., Mar. 23—Final Student Body Officers and Honor Court runoffs, if necessary.
Tues., Mar. 24—Filing for Student Council Offices except candidate for Freshman Advisor.
Wed., Mar. 25—Filing for Student Council Offices except candidate for Freshman Advisor.
Thurs., Mar. 26—Speeches by YMCA Presidential candidates. Voting for officers of YMCA, Freshman Advisor, publication editors, and cheerleaders.
Fri., Mar. 27—Final Freshman Advisor and cheerleaders runoffs, if necessary.
Tues., April 7—Voting for Student Council Offices.
Wed., April 8—Student Council Offices runoffs, if necessary.
Thurs., April 9—Student Council Offices runoffs, if necessary.

The Hub Now Bus Station

Tues., Mar. 24 Noon - 7 p.m.
Wed., Mar. 25 Davidson Elem. School (Behind Esso Station)

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Applewhite
Bondurant
Causey
Cole
Freeman
Hampton
Johnson, N. M.
Lester
McGill
Moore
Parker
Pinkerton
Richey
Mebane
White, H. B.

IN THE COLLEGE BRAND ROUND-UP

PRIZES:
1ST PRIZE WEBCOR Stereophonic High Fidelity Tape Recorder
2ND PRIZE WEBCOR Stereo High Fidelity Phonograph

WHO WINS:
Prizes will be awarded to any recognized group or individual submitting the largest number of empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alpine or Paxton.

RULES:
1. Contest open to qualified students only. Empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alpine or Paxton must be submitted in order to qualify.
2. Closing date, time and location will be announced in your newspaper. No entries will be acceptable after official closing time.

Get on the BRANDWAGON ... it’s lots of fun!

Life’s a picnic when you're refreshed. Coca-Cola, with its cold crisp taste, is always just right, never too sweet ... refreshes best.

Better with Coke

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by:
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina