PAGE FOUR 1 | Competition Opening For Fulbright Awards By BRITT SNIDER

Competition for Fulbright-Hays grants for graduate study opened last week for the academic year 1965-1966. These grants, provided by the Fulbright-Hays Act, are made annually for graduate study by the United States government as a part of the educational and cultural exchange program of the U.S. Department of State. Any student is eligible who has a bachelor’s degree before the date of the grant, possesses proficiency in a foreign language, and has good health. Application is possible for several types of grants: (1) a full grant, which includes transportation, tuition, books, maintenance, and insurance in the chosen country; (2) a joint U.S.-other government grant, which includes tuition, maintenance, and transportation to the host country; and (3) a travel-only grant, which provides round-trip transportation for the student. Special opportunities are available under the full-grant program for teaching assistantships in India. This program is designed for the student interested in teaching English at Indian colleges and universities, while carrying on research in his special field of interest. All applicants are screened by one of thirty national screening committees. Their recommendations are forwarded to supervisory agencies abroad and from there to the Board of Foreign Scholarships, which is appointed by the President and which makes the final selection of grantees. Students wishing to apply for grants should contact Campus Fulbright Program Adviser Dr. J. T. Embry as soon as possible for further information. Application blanks may be obtained from Embry through October 15, 1964, and must be submitted by a date in the fall which he will specify.

FACULTY (Continued From Page One)

meet later, when more time would be available for discussion of the proposals. During the course of the meeting a number of alternate proposals were suggested and defeated, including one by Dr. J. G. Martin to lower the number of hours and quality required points for readmission. “The college is moving away from the idea of putting a bind on a fellow to help him do what he should with his class work,” noted Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Jr. “We have seen this trend not only in the action on Academic Probation—we saw this in the cut system changes not long ago. The college of course will try to help through counseling and guidance.” The Faculty Committee Studying Academic Probation, Year-End Requirements and Underachievements, as it is officially named, is composed of Dr. Richard Bernard as chairman, Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, Dean Burts, Dr. Max Polley, Dr. Paul Marrotte, and Dr. J. M. Fredrickson.

Christian Author To Speak Sunday

The Reverend Albert N. Wells, author of The Christian Message in a Scientific Age, will preach at vespers Sunday evening. Wells received a degree in mechanical engineering from Auburn University in 1943. Following service in World War II, he continued his education, receiving a degree at Columbia Theological Seminary. He was awarded his ThD from Princeton Theological Seminary in 1956. Wells has served positions in Atlanta and Fayetteville, and is currently minister of the First Presbyterian Church in Laurinburg.

Dr. Marcus Bloch, L-Hy President Eastern Magical Society P. O. Box 118 New York 9, N. Y.

Unusual Stamp Offer

300 colorful Yugoslavian stamps, all different, for only 5 dollars. Send cash, check or money order. Prompt delivery guaranteed by: KLEIN, Steyr, Hafnerstrasse 4, Austria.

The Hub Now Bus Station and Ticket Office | Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

JOBS ABROAD STUDENTS & TEACHERS

Largest NEW directory. Lists hundreds of permanent career opportunities in Europe, South America, Africa and the Pacific, for MALE or FEMALE. Totals 50 countries. Gives specific addresses and names prospective U.S. employers with foreign subsidiaries. Exceptionally high pay, free travel, etc. In addition, enclosed vital guide and procedures necessary to foreign employment. Satisfaction guaranteed. Send two dollars to Jobs Abroad Directory—P. O. Box 13593—Phoenix, Arizona.

After Vespers

THE DAVIDSONIAN

GOD AND MAN AT DAVIDSON

Responses varied last week as two groups made their appeal to the Davidson student during vacant chapel periods. Accused of “apostasy” by a national magazine last fall, most Davidson students steered their apathetic paths clear of both gatherings. The YMCA-sponsored voluntary chapel program—featuring a different student leader at each service—is slated each Wednesday in Lingle Chapel. The attendance at a recent service (left) stood at four. As yet unorganized, the Humanist Club brought Unitarian minister Sidney Freeman to campus two days later (right). Invited by unofficial Humanist head Bill Ferris, Freeman spoke to a total of 32 people.

Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Hunt
Jackson
Bailey
Barber
Bryan
Campbell
Cumming
Miss Houchens
Marotte
Minter
Johnston
McGeachy
Pierce
Plott
Rhodes
Schenck
Smith

IN HODSON HALL

Male Chorus, Sullins Choir Will Present Joint Concert

The combined Davidson College Male Chorus and Sullins College Choir of Bristol, Va., will present a concert in Hodson Hall of the Fine Arts Center on Monday at 8:15 p.m. There will be no admission charge. The program will feature selections by each group and will be highlighted by the combined presentation of Mozart's “Vespers Solennes de Confessore,” K339. The Sullins Chorus, directed by Leon B. Fleming, will present in their portion of the concert, Franz Schubert's “Kyrie Eleison” from Mass in G, “Sing to the Lord of Harvest” by Hea, “In Paradisum” (requiem) by Gabriel Faure and will close with “Now Sing We Joyfully Unto God” by Gordon Young. Soloists will be Evelyn Vance, soprano, and Daphne McCord, contralto. A somewhat lighter program will be presented by the Male Chorus, featuring a Hebrew chant, “El Yenneh Hagili;” Schubert's “La Pastorella;” “Poor Wayfaring Stranger,” a white spiritual; and two sea chanteys, “Shenandoah” and “High Barbary.” Soloists for the Male Chorus, under the direction ofDonald B. Plott will be Rufus Hallmark, tenor, and Douglas Heidt, bass. The Male Chorus will leave tomorrow for Bristol and will present a joint concert in Central Presbyterian Church there at 4:00 p.m.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Studies piling up? Pause. Have a Coke. Coca-Cola — with a lively lift and never too sweet, refreshes best. things better th Coke
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina

FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1964

(Staff Photo by Smith)

Twenty-Two Sophomores Initiate Davidson Foreign Study Program
By HARRY CARR

Twenty-two Davidson sophomores have fulfilled necessary requirements to spend the next academic year in France or Germany under the college’s new Foreign Study Plan. With an August 19 sailing date in New York, the French students will travel to Montpellier University in Southern France, while the German students will go to Marburg University in central West Germany. The year in France will end in late June of next year; the German term continues through July.

The 12 students who will study at Montpellier are Pete Bondanella, Woody Cleveland, Tom Craig, Ray Fisher, Michael Frye, Stanley Kerr, Wayne Mixon, John Ouzts, Eddie Rivers, Jim Starrett, John Webb, and Doug Woodworth. The Marburg group includes 10 students: Harvey Blalock, John Good, Jack Goodykoontz, Tiff Harrington, David Orr, Hank Taylor, Charles Turner, Tom Vinson, William Walker, and Monty Wilkinson.

Before the beginning of the school term in early November, the German students will take an intensive course in conversation and comprehension for seven and a half weeks. Living in private homes during this period, they will study at several Goethe Institutes near Munich. The Goethe Institute is specifically designed to prepare foreigners for study at German universities. At Montpellier, the French group will take a language program similar to the one at the Goethe Institute. The term at the French university begins in mid-October.

German professor Dr. Thomas Pinkerton and French professor Dr. Francis Ghigo will accompany the two groups. In addition to conducting a seminar for the students in the literature of the country, the professors will meet with each student once a week for counseling on his other subjects. Each student will keep a journal of his assignments, class attendance, textbooks and readings, and copies of all examinations.

Cost of the year abroad is $2400. The fee includes living expenses and transportation to and from the universities by ship. There are no planned vacation trips with the exception of a three-day stay at the University of Paris en route from the Le Havre port to Montpellier. Scholarship holders may use their grants for this year of study. Also, the college has made available further funds including scholarships and loans for those who need more money for the year abroad. The regular policy of awarding scholarships applies to the foreign study.

To receive credit, each student must secure approval from department heads for each course to be taken. Grades and credit will transfer under the same policy as for that done in other American colleges and universities. The student studying abroad may have to satisfy the Davidson department chairman by examination or term paper in addition to his examination at the foreign university.

The Davidson program does not exclude study by its students under other programs. According to Foreign Study Committee Chairman Dr. Joe Embry, Davidson hopes to extend the program to more countries in the future as the demand develops. Dr. Embry advised those freshmen interested in such a program to contact either him or Dr. Pinkerton, coordinator for the German program.

Order Name Cards for Your Commencement Announcements (Printed)
100 — $3.00
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Phone TW2-6651

Whither Thou Goest
Handy Bible which fits conveniently into your glove compartment is ever beside you offering peace of mind and inner security wherever you may be. Everyone can benefit by having this King James, Viennese Bible at his fingertips. Let the auto-Bible accompany you in your travels. Only 5 dollars. Luxury edition, leather bound with gold inlay 10 dollars, pre-paid by check, cash or money order, return postage guaranteed. Sorry, no COD’s.
BIBEL-SERVICE, Vienna 13, Braunschweiggasse 13, Austria.

SUMMER-OPPORTUNITY (Male Students over 18)
Students can earn in excess of $150.00 per week while working towards Scholarships, trips, Prizes and Awards. This year Collier's Vacation Earnings program offers College Students more prizes and awards than ever before in the history of the Company:
—A WORLDS FAIR WHIRL & RHINE RENDEZVOUS—
Nine days all expense paid trip to the Worlds Fair Holland, Germany, France, Switzerland
—Fifteen $1,000.00 Cash Scholarships
—Valuable Merchandise awards
Students accepted for summer will have an opportunity to work in location of their choice.
Myrtle Beach, S. C.
Asheville, N. C.
Charlotte, N. C.
Winston-Salem, N. C.
Durham, N. C.
Rocky Mt., N. C.
Raleigh, N. C.
Fayetteville, N. C.
Wilmington, N. C.
Greensboro, N. C.
Elizabeth City, N. C.
Qualified previous Employees would have opportunity for Management. All who would be interested fill in the next few lines and mail promptly in order to receive first consideration.

Name
School Address
Home Address
Date available for interview
Date you could begin

Mr. Marshall S. Rosenfeld
District Manager
Suite 817
201 S. Tryon Building
Charlotte, N. C.

Phone
Phone

Greenville, S. C.
Spartanburg, S. C.
Columbia, S. C.
Roanoke Rapids, N. C.
Area you prefer to work