FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1964

SPORTS SCENE | BY JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

WINNING

It was suggested to me that in my first column I elaborate on my athletic philosophy so that readers would
know what my general views are on athletics and whether or not they will read the column any more. This
sounded logical enough, but I guess I must be shallow or something. I really can’t think of anything that I’d
call my athletic philosophy. The most I can come up with are what I consider to be the values of
athletics, and, because they are hardly original, I’ll just relate them briefly.

The physical and mental values of athletics and competition to the participating athlete are pretty much self-evident. They have been
written about by Aristotle, among numerous others, and I can’t improve on him. Aristotle didn’t comment on the value of
college athletics to the non-participating student and to the school in general, and therefore I will. Pride in Davidson and
a feeling of student unity are elements that few will deny are desirable, and athletics can produce these elements as
much as or more than academics. The quantity of these elements is increased proportionately to the success of the athletic
teams, and upon the basis of this proportionate increase I base my partisanship to subsidized athletics.

Competing for the sake of competition is fine for the individual athlete, but it is hard for the spectator to
generate great amounts of enthusiasm for a loser, as is exemplified by the somewhat less than overflowing crowds at Richardson
Field in the fall. Winning, as much as a game itself, produces the enthusiasm, support, and thus the pride. In
a vote by the entire student body at Presbyterian College, tennis won over football and basketball as the school’s most
popular intercollegiate sport. Why? Because PC consistently produces one of the best tennis teams in the nation, and because the
football and basketball teams aren’t winners. Basketball is king at Davidson because the team is a winner, students take most
pride in this team, and its winning unites the students behind a common object with which they can identify and
to which they can support against common foes.

I favor a mild increase in athletic subsidies to produce an athletic program that will put Davidson on equal footing
with other conference members in all sports. Because Davidson has more to offer academically, it can attract top-notch athletes in
all sports if it provides an athletic program comparing favorably with those of its competition. Davidson excels in academics and
I see little reason why it shouldn't excel in athletics if it is to become the truly superior school which
it is trying to be.

I hope that it doesn’t seem I've overstressed winning. For the participant, competing, rather than winning, is more important, although
winning is the immediate goal of competing. Winning is more important for the entire college to reap the benefits of
athletics. Fair-weather support beats apathy.

Also, I don’t mean to be critical of the present athletic program in general. In a large majority of its
phases I think the athletic program excels. But there are areas in which the program can and should be improved,
and I would like to discuss these areas individually in later issues.

A LOSS

I would like to express my condolences to Coach Dole and to Bill Dole, Jr. on the loss of Mrs.
Dole, a friend to Davidson students and to Davidson athletics.

FOOTBALL

Dr. Tom Scott, Davidson's athletic director, has released the nine-game football schedule for next fall:

September 26 Mississippi College here
October 3 The Citadel there
October 10 Presbyterian there
October 17 Richmond here
October 24 VMI there
October 31 Furman here
November 7 Lehigh there
November 14 Lafayette here
November 21 Wofford there

I don’t know why only four conference games (The Citadel, Richmond, VMI, Furman) are scheduled, but it seems pointless to
me to be in a conference and not play in it. The Southern Conference requires that each member play at
least four league games, but I can’t see why it doesn’t require at least six, as does the Atlantic Coast
Conference. Conference standings and championships—and for that matter, conference affiliation—are somewhat meaningless when member schools play only half of the
other members.

Perhaps a Davidson-West Virginia or a Davidson-VPI game would be a farce, but so is the fact that these schools
are in the same conference. Anyway, the Wildcats should play George Washington, which hasn’t played Davidson in recent years, and
William and Mary, which just this year was dropped from the Davidson schedule. At least the Catawba game has been
discontinued. This annual encounter interested neither Davidson nor Catawba fans, and the attendance at the game in Charlotte every year
was usually doubled by the high school game played in the same stadium the night before the college contest.

AND MORE...

Davidson's soccer team will be eligible to play in the NCAA small college championship tournament next year. Thus, the lack
of enough major college foes on the schedule won’t prevent, as it did last fall, Coach Fogleman’s booters from participating
in post-season competition.

Coach Stevens’ baseball squad has lost the services of ace pitcher Paul Briggs for the remainder of the season, due
to elbow trouble discovered after the Florida trip.

The Davidson-Campbell tennis match rained out Tuesday is rescheduled for April 20 on the Wildcat courts. Coach Fogleman has finally
stabilized his tennis lineup, with Bill Schutt, Dick Hurd, Woody Cleveland, and Bill Council the top four netters in the
order listed.

First baseman Sonny Graves reports that he is leading the ’Cats in batting with a .500 average (1 for 2).
Says Graves, “I'm the greatest.”

If Lefty signs any Negro basketball players, it won’t be new to the Southern Conference. West Virginia has signed two
Negro stars for next year’s freshman cage team.

DRIVEN INDOORS, JEFF FRANK scatters as he preps for yesterday's match with The Citadel. (Photo by Smith)

"Cat Nine Surprise Fla. With 2-3-1 Record
BY FORREST ROLES

Tomorrow afternoon Davidson's rejuvenated baseball team travels to Blacksburg, Va., to begin its Southern Conference schedule against VPI. A game
with S. C. foe Richmond was rained out last Wednesday.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Netters Romp Citadel, Meet State Tomorrow
BY ED McFARLAND

Coach Harry Fogleman’s tennis team romped to a surprising 7-2 win over the highly regarded Citadel Bulldogs yesterday in a
showdown possibly foreshadowing the outcome of...

Hetzel Home From Trials, says Olympic Talent Great

Tred Hetzel, who has been awing opposing ballplayers all his life, returned from the U.S. Olympic Basketball Trials somewhat awed
himself. “The individual talent there was almost unbelievable, and all through the trials there were just continuously spectacular plays. It
was a treat just to watch the practice sessions,” reports Davidson’s 6’8” All-American, relaxing after two strenuous weeks of pressure-packed
basketball, March 23-April 4.

Although playing sporadically during the practice sessions at St. John’s Arena in New York, Hetzel shined often enough to be
selected as one of six alternates for the Olympic team, thus remaining eligible to fill in on the twelve-man squad
in the event that any of its members are unable to make the trip to Tokyo.

“All in all, the trials were a great experience,” reflects Hetzel. “I knew the competition would...be good, but it was
better than I thought it would be. There were the best players there that I've ever seen. And it was
a tremendous opportunity to know as individuals, ballplayers who had been just names in magazines before.”

“Because he will miss the first month of school next fall, Hetzel will audit three courses at summer school and
then take the same courses first semester, being allowed by the executive committee to take only nine hours credit. Hetzel
scored 15 points in a pre-trial contest, the East-West game in Lexington, Kentucky. “This probably had a lot to do
with my making alternate,” comments the big one, noting his below-par performances in the first and third games of the
trials’ 96-player tournament. Scoring only four points in the first game, Hetzel's playing time was cut short by early fouls.
Hitting on six of eight field goals in the second en-

As an alternate, I'll still take part in the practice sessions of the team next September, staying with the squad
until it leaves for Japan around the first of October,” reports Hetzel. The team will practice in Hawaii until September
22, when it will return to the mainland for exhibition games on the west coast.

carry a 5-8 record into conference play. Virginia Tech's Gobblers return a solid team from last year’s conference runner-ups. Gone,
however, is ace pitcher Lee Maleur who has always been a ‘Cat nemesis. Davidson will have to face Dan Jenkins
who beat them last year to sweep the scheduled doubleheader. Coach Tom Stevens would not commit himself to a starting
pitcher. Coach Stevens has finally committed himself to a ‘Cat starting lineup. After several weeks of futile juggling, he has
settled on the combination of Rick Smyre, first base; Jim Hyder, second base; Steve Heekard, shortstop; Tom Whitley, third base;
Don Davidson, left field; Dick Snyder, centerfield; Charlie Marcon, right field; and either Earl Cole or Eddie Earl, catching. This
combination clicked for the ‘Cats’ only wins on their southern trip in the last two games.

The 2-4-1 record which the ‘Cats had for their Southern trip was nothing to be ashamed of as the ‘Cats
met top-flight competition. They lost a single game to Georgia Southern (the best team the ‘Cats played), split two games
with Duke (the worst team they played), and beat Rollins College once and played them to an 11-inning tie. The
last six of these games were played in the annual Rollins Invitational Tournament held at Rollins College in Winter Park,
Fla. The ‘Cats finished third in this tournament behind winner Colby College of Maine, a team which defeated the ‘Cats
4-0 and 14-2, and Rollins, who fell to Davidson 9-8 and played a tie game. In last place was Duke,
holding a split with the ‘Cats. Outstanding for Davidson in the tournament were pitchers Earl Cole and Barry Teague, both
of whom pitched well enough to win two games instead of one as they did. Tom Whitley, Rick Smyre, and
Don Davidson provided most of the offensive power.

Africa and the Pacific, JOBS ABROAD STUDENTS & TEACHERS Largest NEW directory. Lists hundreds of permanent career opportunities in Europe,
South America, Totals 50 countries. Gives specific addresses and names of prospective U.S. employers with foreign subsidiaries. Exceptionally high pay,
free travel, etc. In addition, enclosed vital guide and procedures necessary to foreign employment. Satisfaction guaranteed. Send two dollars to
Jobs Abroad Directory—P. O. Box 13593—Phoenix, Arizona.

Singing goes better refreshed. And Coca-Cola — with that special zing but never too sweet — refreshes best. Coca-Cola Bottling
Company of Concord, Concord, North Carolina.

FRED HETZEL RELAXES IN THE RACK while reminiscing about 2 weeks of strenuous basketball in the tryouts for the U.S.
Olympic team. (Photo by Smith)

Tomorrow, the ‘Cats take on a weak squad of netters from North Carolina State in a match in which Fogleman
feels that “we should come out on top.” Bill Poore won the number one singles for the Cadets’ only singles
victory by defeating Bill Schutt 6-3 and 7-5. Davidson's Dick Hurd beat Perry Earle 9-7 and 6-3; Woody Cleveland topped
Ray Morgan 4-6, 8-6, 7-5; Bill Council won over Jon Tennant 2-6, 6-2, 6-2; Frank Bumgardner won 7-5, 9-7 over
Jerry Tollison, and John Ariail, Davidson’s captain, took Sandy Miller 6-4, 6-2. In bringing its season record to 8-3, Davidson
took two of three doubles matches to complete the devastation of last year's conference runners-up with the Schutt-Council and Cleveland-Hurd
duos winning, and the Baumgardner-Ariail pair dropping a 6-4, 6-4 decision.

Yesterday's win was the ‘Cats’ first match since last week's Florida trip, which included the Rollins Invitational Round Robin Tournament
at Winter Park. Davidson split four games in the tourney against teams Fogleman calls “the best teams we've seen this
year.” Although winning 8-1 over Florida Southern and 6-3 over Hope, Fogleman was most pleased in a 6-3 loss to
Rollins. Says the Davidson mentor, “We'll be lucky to play as well again all year as we did versus Rollins.”
Also falling to Columbia, 2-7, at Winter Park, the team put down Stetson’s Hatters 5½-3½ at Deland and “returned from
the trip with a lot more confidence" according to Fogleman. Against Stetson, Cleveland lost a love set to a female
member of the Stetson team, Denise Wall, but won the match 6-3, 0-6, 6-4.

Group Nominates Lefty For Award

Basketball coach Lefty Driesell is one of five nominees named yesterday by the Charlotte Sportsman’s Club as candidates for Charlotte's
Sportsman of the Year. The winner will be selected by the board of directors and announced Tuesday night at a
meeting at the Myers Park Country Club. Other nominees for the award honoring the person who has contributed the most
to the Charlotte sports picture during the past year are Paul Amen, John Belk, Cliff Turner, and Jack Wood.

Spring Has Arrived At Rush Wilson Ltd Awaiting Your Inspection

Is Our Finest Spring Selection

SLACKS by Corbin, Jefferson, & Levi
HALF SLEEVE DRESS SHIRTS by Gant & Rush Wilson
WALK SHORTS by Jefferson, & Levi
SCOTCH GRAIN LOAFERS by Frank Bros.
SPORT COATS & SUITS by Gordon-Ford, Linett & Others

COME IN AND MAKE AN EARLY SELECTION

Rush Wilson, Ltd.
