FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1964

'CAT TALES' BY JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

CREDIT WHERE IT'S DUE DEPT.

To Steve Heckard for his phenomenal performance in the Mississippi College game, his first starting quarterback assignment since junior high. Heckard's elusiveness was no big surprise, as he had exhibited his talents in this area from his old end position. But his amazingly accurate passing (9 for 10), and his perceptive choice of plays, especially in the pressure-packed fourth quarter, exceeded even the most optimistic expectations. Davidson has never exactly been noted for its outstanding quarterbacks, but, if Heckard continues in the same form, it looks like the Wildcats will finally have at the key position a man in whom they can have justified confidence.

To Pack Hindsley for his blocking, pass receiving, and aggressive defensive work. Hindsley was one of the few Wildcats who played both ways, but the strain of double duty didn't show on the converted halfback as he made his presence on offense and defense very well known to the Choctaws of Mississippi.

To Jim Terry for his no-miss extra point placements and for his game-winning, last-second field goal. He had as much pressure on him as he'll ever have, but he didn't choke when the chips were down.

To Bill Rikard for his diving catches in the final quarter which led to Davidson's winning points. The game was Rikard's first in varsity competition, and he came through big. It's the extra effort such as his that wins ball games and that the Wildcats seemed to generally lack during the last couple of years.

To fullback Pat Fisher for his 100% effort every time he carried. At 171 pounds, Fisher is among the smallest college fullbacks around, but his never-say-die running makes him the reliable performer that any successful team has to have.

To the Wildcat defense which bottled up the Mississippi attack in the last period, enabling the 'Cat offense to gain ball possession and score.

To the Davidson team for continuing to fight and overcoming a 14-point deficit to win. As somebody in the stands said Saturday, it seemed very un-Davidson-like to come from behind to win. In any event, it's a real accomplishment for any team to come from as far back as the 'Cats were Saturday with such little time left.

To the Mississippi defender who pushed Rikard.

EDUCATION IN CHAPEL

Looking through the Davidson Fall Sports Brochure in chapel the other day, I came across some interesting odds and ends. Davidson leads its football series with Citadel, 18-16-4, although the 'Cats have lost in the last five outings against the soldier boys.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

(Maff Photo by Smith)

CONVERTED QUARTERBACK STEVE HECKARD
"You Can't Catch It If Nobody Can Throw It"

Flickerball Brings Few Surprises In Slow Start
BY PRESTON ST. CLAIR
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The first week of IMAC flickerball action was rather limited in scope, with only six games on record. All Thursday games were rained out and will have to be scheduled later in the season. All other scheduled games were played.

In Monday action the KA's defeated the Independents, 9-7, in a game played under protest by the Independents. A question was raised as to how far the ball has to travel on an on-sides kick before the kicking team can take possession. As of this writing, no official ruling had been given. The KA's scored their points on a safety and a touchdown. The safety could almost be called an accident, as Independent tailback Dave Johnson apparently did not know just where the end zone was. However, he was caught in it. The winning touchdown came on a pass from Jack Kimball to Sam Grimes. Navid Jennings, a freshman playing for the Independents, showed a good deal of promise by intercepting three passes in an attempt to stop the KA's.

The Pikas defeated the Pi Kapps 28-6 in a game dominated by defense. The Pi Kapps took an early 6-0 lead, due mainly to the excellent playing of tailback Richard Cathey and sloppy Pika offense. Three of the four Pika touchdowns came on interceptions, one by rinky-dink "Gink" White. Pika offense was not able to move the ball too well, although Bob O'Kelly was a constant threat anywhere on the field.

The Sigma Nus could count their game with the Phi Gams a moral victory. The Gams managed only a 14-6 victory.

Wednesday saw the SAE's defeated by the Kappa Sigs, 26-12. Kappa Sig tailback Buddy Dubose lived up to all pre-season expectations, throwing four touchdown passes, and playing a fine all-round game. The combination of Dubose and end Tommy Reams was too much for the SAE's.

Cats Put Win Streak On Line At Charleston
By SAM BOYTE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's Wildcats travel to Charleston, S.C., tomorrow to take on the Bulldogs of The Citadel in the 'Cats' first Southern Conference game of the season. The contest, beginning at 8 p.m., will be the Citadel's first home game and Davidson's first away from Richardson Field.

While the Citadel has lost its first two games (to Army 34-0 and to West Virginia 7-3) the Bulldogs have shown that they are not to be regarded lightly. With 24 lettermen returning to the team this year the Bulldogs have a strong line to open the way for its running machine led by fullback Mike Lane, who gained 95 yards in 16 carries in the West Virginia game.

Davidson coach Bill Dole says, "We'll be outmanned ... Citadel gives 22 scholarships each year." Injuries have also plagued the Wildcats. Key players like John Phipps and Steve Smith will see more action as a result of these injuries.

Heckard Is Surprising Standout In QB Debut
By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

What does one expect of an end when he plays his first game at quarterback? No one expects him to complete 90% of his passes, no one expects him to gain 130 yards passing, including 29 on one touchdown toss, or especially, no one expects him to throw two touchdown passes. Therefore Steve Heckard surprised a lot of people last Saturday at Richardson Field.

What looked like a black afternoon for the Wildcats, turned into a day of glory after Jim Terry kicked a field goal made possible largely because of the accomplishments of Steve Heckard. Trailing 14-0 during the third quarter, Davidson regrouped and began to throw the ball. Heckard had thrown little earlier because, "We were always deep in our own territory throughout the first half, and I didn't want to risk interceptions."

Heckard realized the Davidson quarterback was a question mark last spring, and knowing the old adage, "You can't catch it if nobody can throw it," asked to be moved to the signal-caller's position. Though a new position takes time to learn, Steve came out of spring practice as the starting quarterback and continued to gain experience during the summer, when he worked out with John Mackovic, Wake Forest's quarterback.

In 1946 Davidson whipped Erskine 74-0, Wofford 54-0, and Hampden-Sydney 40-0, and still wound up with a 4-5 record.

Davidson has won only two conference tilts in the last five seasons.

Wofford was the victim of Davidson's most decisive victory, an 87-0 massacre of the Terriers in 1921.

Foreshadowing things to come, Davidson lost its first football game in history, bowing 12-4 to a city team from Charlotte in 1896. Among the schools appearing on Davidson's early schedules are such notables as Bingham, N.C. Medical School, Salisbury Medical School, N.C. A&M, Oak Ridge, Morganton Mutes, College of Charleston, Westminster, and Mt. Pleasant. We used to play Georgia Tech too, but gave up after getting edged 53-0 in 1953. Tech also administered to Davidson's worst defeat, a 77-0 humiliation in 1921, the same year of Davidson's romp over Wofford.

Davidson's all-time football record is 236 wins, 271 losses, and 42 ties.

The record for most yards gained in a single game on pass receptions is 125 yards, held by Steve Heckard, who accomplished the feat in the 1962 Homecoming game against William and Mary.

Davidson's greatest total yardage in a single game was 777 against Erskine in 1946.

NOTES...

The new NCAA Basketball Guide includes a selection of preseason All-Americans by Irving Marsh of the New York Herald Tribune, and on the first squad is Fred Hetzel. It's good to see him getting the national recognition he deserves. Hetzel is in fast company on Marsh's dream team — also included are Bill Bradley of Princeton, Billy Cunningham of North Carolina, Rick Barry of Miami, Wayne Estes of Utah State, Cazzie Russell of Michigan, and Steve Thomas of Xavier.

Marsh's choice of the country's top ten teams omits the Big Four Plus One completely, listing UCLA, Michigan, and Kentucky as the nation's top three. It's the ratings at the end of the season that count, though...

Southern Conference gridders are 6-6 so far this season against outside competition...

Sonny Graves announced at a recent press conference...that he has added over the summer ten pounds of power-packed muscle to his midriff and can’t wait to exploit his new strength at baseball this spring.

Soccer could prove devastating, and should help the Sigs to be the team to beat even if Coach Driesell puts a “flickerball ban” on basketball players. The ATO’s and Sig Eps also played Wednesday in what was undoubtedly the bloodiest game of the week. Rick Altemose suffered a concussion while defending against a pass and could remember nothing of the game, or, for that matter, the entire day. David James put his tooth through his lip in a collision with Pat Hubbard. ATO tailback Dave Hardeman showed fine promise and with his halfbacks, Jim Stokes and Dave Townsend, could form one of the finest backfields this year. Outstanding defensive plays from Whitey Lockman, including two interceptions and one 92-yard runback, helped the ATO offense to defeat the Sig Eps, 32-14. The other game Wednesday was between the Betas and the Sigma Chis, going to the Betas, 12-6. This game was marked by tight defensive play although the Betas’ punting “specialist,” Mo Bethea, only managed to move the ball about 20 yards in his lone appearance. The Betas won by intercepting a pass on a Sigma Chi “sleeper” play and running it back within the last 25 seconds of the game.

Squad Wins Opener

An exciting score in the final two minutes of play handed the Wildcat soccer team a narrow 1-0 victory over a surprisingly much improved Belmont Abbey squad Thursday. Center Jan Brakel booted in the only goal of the day following a set-up play which displayed the excellent teamwork which led Dr. Marrotte to comment that the “Davidson team looked better than any Davidson team I've seen.” Balance, coordination, and spirit were the keynotes to the successful day and “every man played his position well.” Despite the low score, the Wildcats held possession of the ball for the greater part of the game, with both teams playing about evenly. But the second quarter was the scene of a Davidson press in which the Wildcats had possession of the ball in their opponent’s territory. Kurt Pederson and Brakel were particularly noted as outstanding for the setting up of plays. Several goal attempts were made but without success, the ball bouncing from the bars, the posts, and the Belmont Abbey goalie. Not until the fourth quarter did the Davidson men again take to the field. But although the plays set up well, again the goal in all but Brakel’s last ball seemed too large for the minute boot.

“I wanted to run a couple of series before I tried anything.” Another reason Heckard went to the air was that the Mississippi College line held the Wildcat rushers to short yardage in the first half. Steve commented, “Our ground attack couldn’t get started and only the off-tackle runs by our halfbacks were working.”

This week's game ought to be somewhat tougher, asserts Steve, “because they are bigger and deeper than Mississippi College, and because David Sprinkle won’t be playing.” Heckard was named Southern Conference Back of the Week, Thursday, becoming the first Davidson player in modern memory to be accorded such an honor.

Perhaps a turning point came in the fourth quarter when an obvious punting situation arose on the ‘Cats’ 20-yard line. Heckard lined up in punt formation but when the snap came he just took off around right end and ran for a first down, keeping the drive alive. “Most of our passes were quickies into the middle,” Steve remembers, “but Bill Rikard really came through with his.”

Dean-Led Thinclads Top Tigers

Sophomore Robert Dean led the Davidson cross country team to a resounding 23-35 victory over Clemson in the ‘Cats first meet yesterday afternoon. Clemson grabbed the lead from the gun and held it for most of the first half of the race. Then at the two-mile mark, Andy Little took the lead for the Wildcats. However, Little could not hold his position as Ernie Drown, Clemson's ace, outdistanced the pack, posting a good 23:07.00 for the slippery four-mile course. Dean and Little finished second and third respectively for the Wildcats. John Barrow and Tommy Hefner tied for fifth, and seconds later, Jesse Sims wrapped it up for Whittle’s Whizzes with a seventh place. Coach Heath Whittle seemed well pleased with the results of the season’s opener. He was quick to point out that Clemson, a member of the Atlantic Coast Conference, will not be the strongest foe that the thinclads face this year, but still it was “a nice win for the first of the season.”

Davidson supporters can draw hope from one unidentified player, however. He has the best spirit and morale of any team in the last several years, he reports. Dole will continue his unit substitution that was a prime factor in the ‘Cats’ 17-14 victory over Mississippi College last Saturday. Also, with the confidence gained from nine pass completions in ten attempts and a 12-yard run out of a sticky fourth and ten situation, the field guidance of Steve Heckard will possibly be even more noteworthy in his second game at quarterback. Coach Tom Stevens, who scouted Citadel, says of Coach Eddie Teague’s boys, “They're always well-conditioned and well-coached — a tough team. They have a well-rounded running attack... they have a varied attack... a lot of offense... they could run a whole new offensive series against us.” Stevens respects their defense, too. “They did a great job against West Virginia. Army just had a great quarterback.”

Who must the Wildcats watch? “Lane,” says the scout. “He's a real good boy. He's the one we'll have to stop.” Davidson's squad, initially lacking depth anyway, was further weakened by injuries at halfback. Lyle Blalock, a starter on offense, suffered a dislocated shoulder, but Dole hopes that a shoulder brace will enable him to see some action this week. Junior David Sprinkle, mainstay of the Wildcat Secondary, was wounded more severely; he is now in a Winston-Salem hospital recovering from a kidney injury incurred against Mississippi. “He will be out for at least three games,” laments Dole. Tommy Dews, who played a “very fine and steady game the entire time.”

“This team did it against Furman and again against the University of Mexico. We warned the officials about it before the game... but I don't remember it ever being called.” Following a Wildcat fumble on the first play of the game, the Choctaws proceeded to score in six plays on a thirteen-yard run by halfback Jerry Hale. Poor field position limited the Davidson attack for the rest of the half, although the defense was able to hold the Choctaws in the clutch. After a Mississippi touchdown at the start of the second half, the Wildcats began to move, scoring at the end of the third quarter on a four-yard pass from Heckard to Steve Smith and a conversion by Jim Terry. A perfect twenty-nine-yard pass from Heckard to Pack Hindsley and Terry's conversion tied the score at fourteen-all in the fourth quarter. A pass interference call helped set up the eighteen-yard field goal by Terry that provided the winning margin in the last four seconds of the game.

“Sufficient rest enabled us to do a good job in the fourth quarter,” said Dole. “The alternating of offensive and defensive units was of great importance in maintaining better physical condition.” “The better club lost,” said Choctaw Coach Hartwell McPhail, “I don't know what happened. Maybe it was just too easy for us at first, and our boys just laxed off. Davidson kept scrapping back all the time... Penalties hurt us a lot.” “Actually,” he continued, “I don't mind losing so much to a better team, but it really makes me sick to have lost this one.”

ADLERS but he’s clean-white-sock just the same

They’re headed for the primrose path but they’ll wind up picking flowers. That's knowing what to do and when to do it. That's being clean-white-sock. An attitude game, coming into scoring position 13 or 14 times and missing 3 or 4 scores “by inches.” On the other hand, only about 3 or 4 times did Belmont Abbey produce any scoring opportunities.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI