PAGE FOUR

Beneath the familiar halls of Chambers Building, there beats the pulse of a little-known but integrally important department of Davidson
College. Here grades are averaged, alumni reports sent, bulk correspondence prepared for mailing, projected averages compiled, and public relations materials
collected.

Located under the Administrative wing of Chambers Building are the offices of Taylor Blackwell and his associate, Mrs. Katherine Halyburton,
in the department of visiting; Robert Sailstad, Director of Public Relations and Development; the IBM machines; and the data-processing equipment.

UNKNOWN TO STUDENTS

Mrs. Halyburton expressed some surprise over the fact of the interest in the plant, saying that she knew that “not
many students know of the area beneath the building.” She added that those who were familiar with the operation when
it moved to the basement two years ago would be surprised at the new additions. These include a secretarial pool
for the convenience of the College and new machines which lighten the work and make for better efficiency.

The bulk of the duty of this department is preparing and mailing College circulation material. To do this, there are
several labor-saving machines. IBM punch cards are used in these machines for the addresses and pertinent information of alumni, parents,
and friends; for mailing the DAVIDSONIAN; for the Wildcat Journal; and several fraternities and other departments. Coach Lefty Driesell even
has a set of cards with addresses to high school coaches throughout the nation for recruiting purposes.

Jones Publishes Result Of Experimental Work

Dr. Robert G. Jones, Assistant Dean of Students, has gained recognition for his experimental work in psychology through the recent
publication of his research article, “Optimum Conformity as an Ingratiation Tactic.” The study, co-authored by Dr. Edward E. Jones, professor
of psychology at Duke University, was published in the September issue of Journal of Personality. Edward Jones is also the
winner of the Appleton Century Cross Award for 1964 in the field of behavioral science.

The experiment described in the article lasted almost a year and included 60 Duke male undergraduate students. After dividing them
into groups of five, the two psychologists set up situations in which the students tried to resolve a particular dilemma
by making themselves attractive to an examiner. The main hypothesis stated that in order to win the approval of another,
one must “avoid over-conformity as well as errant disagreement.” According to Robert Jones, “Response to our research article has been
very good. We’ve had numerous written requests for additional copies.” Having now authored three published articles, Jones is currently organizing
a dissertation called “A Search for a Systematic Error in Interpersonal Perception.”

Jones, a 1938 graduate of Davidson, earned a BD from Yale Divinity School in 1961 and a PhD from Duke
University in 1964. In addition to serving as the liaison between the administration and the fraternities, Jones is teaching a
Psychology 21 class.

Nelson And Neal To Appear Tonight

Harry Lee Neal and his wife, Allison Nelson, duo-pianists, will be featured in the Artist Series concert tonight at 8:15
p.m. in Hodson Hall. The program will feature a wide selection of numbers ranging in variety from Mendelssohn to Brahms.

The couple is probably as well known for their unusual means of travel as they are for their musical ability.
They are to arrive at Davidson early Friday afternoon in a bus custom-designed by Neal. The engine was shifted to
the front to make room for two grand pianos in back. Between the engine and the pianos are a living
room, kitchen, dinette, bathroom, and sleeping quarters for the couple and their three children.

After their arrival, the Neals will spend several hours unloading the pianos, arranging them, adjusting the lights, and tuning the
pianos. Then they will settle down for a home-cooked dinner. At 8:15 p.m. they will appear in formal attire for
a two-hour presentation of their four-hand art. Their program will begin with Mendelssohn's OVERTURE to A Midsummer Night’s Dream. This
selection illustrates the main features of Shakespeare’s play. The remainder of the program will consist of selections from Brahms.

Benefit Basketball Will Aid Male Chorus

The Male Chorus has encountered several difficulties in securing the necessary funds for a month-long European concert tour; however, other
plans are being made to finance the upcoming tour for the summer of 1965.

With the cooperation of Charles (Lefty) Driesell, basketball coach, and Bill Bondurant, alumni director, plans had previously been made to
hold a Varsity-Freshman basketball scrimmage in the Charlotte Coliseum on Nov. 20 to finance the more than $10,000 needed for
the trip. However, due to a rule of the Southern Conference, this will not be possible. The Conference rule states
that a school may not hold an off-campus intramural scrimmage at which admission is charged. The NCAA has no such
rule, and it is peculiar to the Southern Conference.

Southern Conference Commissioner Lloyd Jordan ruled that the Coliseum could not be considered on-campus, despite the fact that it serves
as home court for several Davidson basketball games and that Johnston Gymnasium is undergoing construction and will be unavailable for
games before Dec. 1. Jordan also refused to poll other Southern Conference member schools to obtain their interpretation of the
rule.

The cost of the trip would be over $20,000, of which more than $10,000 has already been raised by the
members of the Chorus themselves through work last summer, Bondurant said. The trip will be made possible through special arrangement
with the Davidson College Alumni European Tour. The Chorus would accompany the Alumni Tour aboard a chartered jet leaving Charlotte
on June 14, stopping at London and Paris, and returning on July 14. Such arrangements would make round-trip fares for
the Chorus approximately half what it would be for individual passengers.

TONIGHT

Davidson’s Wildcats, ranked third in the nation in pre-season polls, take on their freshman counterparts at 6:15 p.m. today in
Johnston Gymnasium. Proceeds from the $1 admission charge will be used to defer expenses incurred by the Male Chorus during
the group's European tour next summer.

There is a staggering amount of material sent out through this department; the alumni cards alone number 13,000. Roger Greene,
who is in charge of the computer, explained that whenever mailing lists were needed, he could take the punch-cards from
the file, run them through the IBM sorting machine, which would arrange them according to zip code numbers, classes, or
virtually any category that was required. Then these sorted cards would be run through the IBM 403, which addresses the
envelopes for mailing immediately. If this doesn’t sound fast or neat enough, he added that the 403 was soon to
be replaced by the IBM 831, an addressing machine which can put out 8000 envelopes per minute. “But,” said Greene,
“if a card is accidentally dropped out of order, there is a contraption that will place it back into the
right place in a matter of minutes. Think of the time that would save instead of going through the whole
13,000 cards.”

Other machines that Greene uses are the IBM 26 Key punch, Reproducing punch, IBM 548 Intercepter, and IBM Collator. With
such an array of clicking, buzzing, fast-moving IBM cards, one feels as if he's in the midst of a mechanical
Times Square.

Mrs. W. A. Thompson, who is in charge of circulation, showed what actually amounts to a small post office, with
more equipment than even the metropolitan Division Post Office. Her “pets” include the new IBM 831 Addressograph, a metering machine,
a folding and stuffing machine, a piling machine, and postage scales.

Beside Greene's and Mrs. Thompson's areas, there is the Data-processing Department, run by Dr. Locke White. Here is housed the
IBM 1260 or “electronic brain.” This piece of equipment can perform almost any task which it is asked to do—within
reason, of course. It is this machine which averages grades (could be of interest Saturday), figures projected averages, and does
several other valuable tasks.

MIMEOGRAPHING SERVICE

But this is not all there is in the basement of Chambers. Here the faculty can have their reviews and
exams typed and mimeographed. There is a separate duplicating machine for faculty use, as well as the mimeograph room, run
by John Brice and Lewis.Connor. In addition, the faculty has access to two “cubby holes” which they can use to
prepare their little gems or to have private dictation. Since most of the publicity comes through the basement, it is
only fitting that the dark room of the three College photographers should be there. Charlie Raynal, Erskine Sproul, and A.
Kennedy keep their equipment in the photography room as well as the pictures for College propaganda. Because this department of
the Administration is somewhat out of the way, a large number of the students do not know where it is,
much less what its function is. This is a shame, for it is a vital part of the College; it
handles a vast amount of work, and, as if it did not have enough to do now, “we’re,” said Roger
Green, “going to be expanding soon.”

COMPUTER LANGUAGE
Twitch, Twitch, Twitch

IFC Discusses Past And Reveals Plans

Rick von Unwerth, IFC president, has announced several important additions to and observations on the IFC program. In the planning
stages for next semester is an inter-fraternity leadership retreat where fraternity office holders will discuss their mutual problems and programs
for the coming year. Von Unwerth pointed out that the drama festival to be sponsored by the IFC was less
than three months away, so work on the individual productions should begin soon. Rupert T. Barber, professor of drama and
speech, has a list of one-act plays available for use in the festival. On Dec. 3-6 Fred Sackett and Rocky
Walker will attend a National Interfraternity Conference in Cincinnati.

In commenting on the Herbie Mann Sextet Concert Nov. 14, Von Unwerth said, “The large crowd that did attend certainly
indicated by their enthusiasm that the somewhat different sound of Herbie Mann's jazz was a very successful change of pace.”
Von Unwerth also noted that everyone he had talked to who attended the Friday night dance with the Catalinas had
enjoyed the music and the dance.

The Student-Faculty Committee is meeting Monday, Nov. 23, to discuss the issues raised by the recent fraternity controversy. In its
Monday meeting, the IFC agreed to support the formation of a committee to study existing problems within the fraternity system
at Davidson, and also agreed to underwrite any expenses incurred by the committee. Fred Sackett, IFC secretary, listed seven students
who have pledged to a fraternity since THE DAVIDSONIAN published an earlier list on Oct. 2. Included in the list
are two sophomores and one freshman who had depledged from another fraternity. Late pledges are: Alpha Tau Omega, Doug Maxwell;
Sigma Phi Epsilon, Joe Friebele; Phi Gamma Delta, sophomore Don Goodman, and junior Bob Rhudy; and Pi Kappa Phi, Jim
Robinson, Ray Kytle, and sophomore George Blount.

Reversible SKI JACKETS with Fold-a-way Hoods for fast-moving sports. Quilted Nylon that is wash and wear. See our selection of
LONDON FOG JACKETS too, from $16.95.

IN JOHNSTON GYM
TV Cables Installed For Sports Coverage

A television cable to facilitate the telecasting of the Davidson-VMI basketball game, Dec. 15, is being laid between Chambers Building
and Johnston Gymnasium by the Southern Bell Telephone Company. Sponsored almost entirely by the Bell Telephone Company, the project is
being completed with little expense to Davidson College. In fact, the only cost defrayed by the college involves the purchasing
of metal conduits to encase the cable.

According to Dr. Tom Scott, director of athletics, the television setup will be used to televise various basketball, football, and
track events. The main line of the cable will be attached to a new press box which will be suspended
from the ceiling along the east wall of the gym. An extension will also be run to the press box
in Richardson Field. Grover C. Meetze, Jr., director of the physical plant, explained that any future transmission sent from the
microwave transmitter atop Chambers Building would go first to the Bell Telephone Company receivers and then be relayed to some
television station in Charlotte. Meetze added that the present work is part of a long-range plan to encourage broadcasting from
Davidson. Although the new cable is mainly for athletic events, provisions are being made to allow the addition of a
later cable to the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. The building already has professional broadcasting equipment, and with the laying of
another cable, it would be possible to televise many concerts or dramatic performances. However, at present there are no definite
plans for such a cable.

The chief problem of construction in Chambers Building is the excessive amount of noise caused by drilling through the concrete,
especially around the Dome Room. Although Meetze could set no deadline for the project's completion, he hopes it will be
finished as soon as possible. At the other end of the cable, there is more construction work. Besides the press
box, plans include the building of 300 additional seats. Scott wryly commented, “We have to have these seats completed by
Dec. 8 because we've already sold the tickets for that night.”

The current contract for broadcasting Davidson basketball involves WBT radio and WSOC television. With the new facilities, television coverage promises
to be better than last year, when cameras had to be placed in the balcony of the gym. WSOC-TV and
WGHP-TV, High Point, will carry four games this fall—three away and one at home. Scott mentioned that a television station
in Richmond, Va. contacted him Wednesday about wanting to televise Davidson games. As to whether or not any events other
than basketball will be televised in the foreseeable future, Scott said that it would be up to the interest of
the television stations concerned.

U.S. Policy Discussed By ROTC

The ROTC department conducts a class on “The Role of the United States in World Affairs” each Tuesday afternoon. Participation
in the seminar-type lectures is required of all second-year Advanced ROTC students. The training objective of the course is to
provide students with an appreciation and understanding of the role of the United States in international affairs, and to emphasize
the responsibilities and obligations of Free World leadership, as exercised by the United States. MS IV's in the course are
responsible for all of the classes, which are taught by the students themselves. Particular methods of presentation of the subject
material are left to the discretion of “discussion leaders.” Thus far this semester three members of the faculty have discussed
topics in the program: Dr. W. P. Minter, “The National Purpose and Power of the United States;” Dr. E. J.
Wruck, “Western Europe in World Affairs,” and Dr. James W. Reid, “The Significance of the Middle East and Africa in
World Affairs.”

You can’t trust luck. You can trust seat belts. 4 out of 5 auto accidents happen within 25 miles of
home, according to the National Safety Council. You’re taking a risk every time you drive. So always buckle your seat
belt. Also, the National Safety Council says... if everyone had seat belts and used them, at least 5,000 lives could
be saved each year and serious injuries reduced by one-third. Always buckle your seat belt. You can’t trust luck... you
can trust seat belts!

Published to save lives in cooperation with The Advertising Council and the National Safety Council.
