FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1964  
By JOHNNY CLARK  
Davidsonian Sports Editor  

HAPPY DAYS ARE HERE AGAIN  

Basketball practice has begun and the practice has brought with it a fast-rising renewal of the basketball enthusiasm that constantly rose last year until the ’Cats’ hopes were crushed by Bill Blair and his VMI cohorts in the semi-finals of the conference tournament. Basketball magazine, as everyone knows by now, picks Davidson as third in the nation, behind UCLA and Michigan, and the new NCAA Basketball Guide notes that Davidson should take the conference title in a “runaway.” All this enthusiasm and optimism isn’t unwarranted. In fact, one wonders how the Wildcats could lose with Hetzel, Davidson, Snyder, and Teague all back with a year’s more experience.

It seems to me that there are three major question marks concerning this year’s team—the strength under the boards with 6'7” Terry Holland gone, the effectiveness of Holland’s replacement on the starting five, and strength on the bench. Actually, I don’t think that the rebounding will be a big sweat with 6'8” Hetzel teaming with Snyder and Davidson, both 6’5” and both great jumpers. It may be uncertain who will start in the fifth spot, but both Charlie Marcon and Ronnie Stone are sharp shooters who will improve the ’Cats’ outside shooting. Either of them probably could have started for any other team in the conference last year, and it looks to me that Lefty’s problem of choosing between the two is a pretty pleasant one.

As for bench strength, the Wildcats don’t have the depth that schools like Duke have because of the limited number of scholarships. However, either Marcon or Stone will be on the bench, and that is about as strong a number six man as a coach could ask for. Paul Briggs will probably be number seven, and if his performance in the scrimmage last Saturday is any indication of how he will perform this season, it looks like he will really be an asset to the team both as a scorer and as a big man under the boards. Davidson had about the same depth situation last year and managed okay, and it looks as if the Wildcats stay reasonably out of foul trouble, the depth, or lack of it, won’t be a major problem. Actually, major problems are non-existent. Davidson should be favored in every game this year. When, and if, Driesell’s charges get beaten, they will be beaten by an off night, not by a superior team.

SIDELIGHTS  

After watching quarterback Ronnie Smith and his mammoth ends, John Hilton and Pete Emelianchik, in action Saturday, it’s hard to see how Richmond has lost at all.  

Five new rows of seats being installed in Johnson Gym will increase the seating capacity by 300. Also being installed in the gym is an elaborate press box for radio, TV, and press. It will be suspended from the ceiling above the bleachers opposite the student section.  

VPI is the only Southern Conference member not on Davidson’s basketball schedule. Davidson hasn't played the Gobblers since 1961, when a hassle between Lefty and Tech’s Athletic Director Frank Mosely brought the series to a halt. VPI must have trouble getting along—hard feelings have ended its basketball series with arch-rival VMI also.  

Davidson's rifle team, undefeated with a 1-0 slate, has the best record among Davidson teams now in competition. The cross countrymen aren’t far behind, holding a 4-1 mark.  

Driesell is again holding closed practices, but the ’Cats will have open scrimmages tomorrow afternoon and next Saturday afternoon.  

Heckard’s 15 completions Saturday set a new Davidson record. Pretty good for a converted end.  

By TUCKER LAXTON  
Davidsonian Sports Writer  

Davidson's soccer team kicked Duke 5-1 here Friday in its most impressive victory of the season to boost the Wildcats' record to 3-2. The contest was played in a constant downpour before an audience of five spectators. Commented Coach Fogleman, “The field was in very bad condition with three to four inches of water standing in many places. Often a player would have to dribble the ball fifteen yards before he could get off a decent kick. When the ball hit, sometimes it would skip and other times it would stop dead.”  

After Duke had scored first, Ben Nzengu popped in Davidson’s first goal. Lee Fanning got one in the second period, but the big man for the Cats was center Jan Brakel who scored three goals. Brakel, who has excelled all season, now has scored 10 of the 18 total goals the Cats have scored all year. With six games left, Brakel has a chance to top the record of 14 set last year by Fred Schoen.  

ATO’s, Kappa Sigs Top Race  
By PAUL MARION  
Davidsonian Sports Writer  

The Kappa Sigs downed three opponents this week to pull into a first-place tie with the ATO’s. Each team now has a 5-0 record while the Betas follow close behind with four wins and no defeats. Behind the passing and running of Buddy DuBose, the Kappa Sigs beat the Sigma Chi's 38-6, the Pikas 28-13, and the Crow's 7-0.  

Candies Forfeit Big Meet  
BY MULDOON  

The second annual DAVIDSONIAN — Scrips and Pranks croquet match was not played last Saturday for reasons unknown.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

the second straight year. Peter Crow's Scripts and Pranksters, expected to field an unusually weak team, were unable even to do that. Crow, in hiding after the campus-wide indignation over his poor showing (or rather lack of poor showing), was not available for comment to the DAVIDSONIAN. Charles “Dribble” Dibble, outstanding croquet player of the DAVIDSONIAN staff, was naturally disappointed that he was not allowed to display his personal talents in the scheduled meet. Dibble, however, coach and captain of the newspapermen, displayed an unusual amount of unselfishness in his press conference immediately following the cancelled contest. Before a crowd of disappointed croquet fans and a bevy of reporters, Dibble valiantly stated, “Of course I regret Candies didn't show. Not so much for myself, but my chargers, Foetus Clark and Fat Charlie Smith. They were really worked up to an emotional peak, and needlessly surprised at the outcome. “I said before Crow's Candies wouldn't show. They knew they could never beat us with the mallets," Dibble mused, obviously with reverence to his prediction which appeared in the October 16 DAVIDSONIAN. Says Clark, “I'd like to see the match rescheduled for the night of November 14; since nothing else any good is happening then, we should get a big crowd.” A new standard of fine shoe value! Syfetil Casa; winning ways with victories over the Pikas 33-0 and the Pi Kapps 25-6. Tailback Dave Hardeman combined with Thom Blair and Dave Townsend for most of the scoring, Skip Waite and Whitey Lockman also turned in valuable performances. The Betas stayed undefeated by stopping the Pi Kapps 33-12 in their only game of the week. Jack Sherrill continued his fine play at tailback with scoring tosses to top receiver, Mac Otts, Gene Ferris, and Alan Turner. Mo Bethea set up the first touchdown with an excellent catch on a long pass and Jim Timmons was outstanding on defense. In the surprise of the week, the Sigma Nus defeated the KA’s 14-13 and then continued their rise to flickerball fame with a 37-4 win over the Sig Eps. Rick Fitzer again led the Nus with pinpoint passing and timely signal calling. Newcomer John Mason was again outstanding as a pass receiver. The Phi Delts won their only game of the week by a 34-0 margin over the Sig Eps. Terry O'Hair and Vance Taylor shared the passing duties and Mike Thurman intercepted three passes on defense. The SAE's split two close games to bring their season record to 2-3. After edging the Sig Eps 24-20, they lost to the Sigma Chi's by a 20-12 score. Mike Booe, Louis Hill, Neal McBride, and Cotton Alston excelled for the SAE's while Geordie Muller and Mike Smith were outstanding in the Sigma Chi victory. The Phi Gams slipped by the KA’s in the only other game 13-6. Independents 42 13. The elusive DuBose was aided by a well-balanced offense in which ends Larry Compton and Tommy Reams, center John McKinley, and halfbacks Ray Garrison and Joe Jelks provided most of the action. The ATO's continued their winning ways with victories over the Pikas 33-0 and the Pi Kapps 25-6. Tailback Dave Hardeman combined with Thom Blair and Dave Townsend for most of the scoring, Skip Waite and Whitey Lockman also turned in valuable performances. The Betas stayed undefeated by stopping the Pi Kapps 33-12 in their only game of the week. Jack Sherrill continued his fine play at tailback with scoring tosses to top receiver, Mac Otts, Gene Ferris, and Alan Turner. Mo Bethea set up the first touchdown with an excellent catch on a long pass and Jim Timmons was outstanding on defense. In the surprise of the week, the Sigma Nus defeated the KA’s 14-13 and then continued their rise to flickerball fame with a 37-4 win over the Sig Eps. Rick Fitzer again led the Nus with pinpoint passing and timely signal calling. Newcomer John Mason was again outstanding as a pass receiver. The Phi Delts won their only game of the week by a 34-0 margin over the Sig Eps. Terry O'Hair and Vance Taylor shared the passing duties and Mike Thurman intercepted three passes on defense. The SAE's split two close games to bring their season record to 2-3. After edging the Sig Eps 24-20, they lost to the Sigma Chi's by a 20-12 score. Mike Booe, Louis Hill, Neal McBride, and Cotton Alston excelled for the SAE's while Geordie Muller and Mike Smith were outstanding in the Sigma Chi victory. The Phi Gams slipped by the KA’s in the only other game 13-6. Independents 42 13. The elusive DuBose was aided by a well-balanced offense in which ends Larry Compton and Tommy Reams, center John McKinley, and halfbacks Ray Garrison and Joe Jelks provided most of the action. The ATO's continued their winning ways with victories over the Pikas 33-0 and the Pi Kapps 25-6. Tailback Dave Hardeman combined with Thom Blair and Dave Townsend for most of the scoring, Skip Waite and Whitey Lockman also turned in valuable performances. The Betas stayed undefeated by stopping the Pi Kapps 33-12 in their only game of the week. Jack Sherrill continued his fine play at tailback with scoring tosses to top receiver, Mac Otts, Gene Ferris, and Alan Turner. Mo Bethea set up the first touchdown with an excellent catch on a long pass and Jim Timmons was outstanding on defense. In the surprise of the week, the Sigma Nus defeated the KA’s 14-13 and then continued their rise to flickerball fame with a 37-4 win over the Sig Eps. Rick Fitzer again led the Nus with pinpoint passing and timely signal calling. Newcomer John Mason was again outstanding as a pass receiver. The Phi Delts won their only game of the week by a 34-0 margin over the Sig Eps. Terry O'Hair and Vance Taylor shared the passing duties and Mike Thurman intercepted three passes on defense. The SAE's split two close games to bring their season record to 2-3. After edging the Sig Eps 24-20, they lost to the Sigma Chi's by a 20-12 score. Mike Booe, Louis Hill, Neal McBride, and Cotton Alston excelled for the SAE's while Geordie Muller and Mike Smith were outstanding in the Sigma Chi victory. The Phi Gams slipped by the KA’s in the only other game 13-6. Independents 42 13. The elusive DuBose was aided by a well-balanced offense in which ends Larry Compton and Tommy Reams, center John McKinley, and halfbacks Ray Garrison and Joe Jelks provided most of the action. The ATO's continued their winning ways with victories over the Pikas 33-0 and the Pi Kapps 25-6. Tailback Dave Hardeman combined with Thom Blair and Dave Townsend for most of the scoring, Skip Waite and Whitey Lockman also turned in valuable performances. The Betas stayed undefeated by stopping the Pi Kapps 33-12 in their only game of the week. Jack Sherrill continued his fine play at tailback with scoring tosses to top receiver, Mac Otts, Gene Ferris, and Alan Turner. Mo Bethea set up the first touchdown with an excellent catch on a long pass and Jim Timmons was outstanding on defense. In the surprise of the week, the Sigma Nus defeated the KA’s 14-13 and then continued their rise to flickerball fame with a 37-4 win over the Sig Eps. Rick Fitzer again led the Nus with pinpoint passing and timely signal calling. Newcomer John Mason was again outstanding as a pass receiver. The Phi Delts won their only game of the week by a 34-0 margin over the Sig Eps. Terry O'Hair and Vance Taylor shared the passing duties and Mike Thurman intercepted three passes on defense. The SAE's split two close games to bring their season record to 2-3. After edging the Sig Eps 24-20, they lost to the Sigma Chi's by a 20-12 score. Mike Booe, Louis Hill, Neal McBride, and Cotton Alston excelled for the SAE's while Geordie Muller and Mike Smith were outstanding in the Sigma Chi victory. The Phi Gams slipped by the KA’s in the only other game 13-6. Independents 42 13. The elusive DuBose was aided by a well-balanced offense in which ends Larry Compton and Tommy Reams, center John McKinley, and halfbacks Ray Garrison and Joe Jelks provided most of the action. The ATO's continued their winning ways with victories over the Pikas 33-0 and the Pi Kapps 25-6. Tailback Dave Hardeman combined with Thom Blair and Dave Townsend for most of the scoring, Skip Waite and Whitey Lockman also turned in valuable performances. The Betas stayed undefeated by stopping the Pi Kapps 33-12 in their only game of the week. Jack Sherrill continued his fine play at tailback with scoring tosses to top receiver, Mac Otts, Gene Ferris, and Alan Turner. Mo Bethea set up the first touchdown with an excellent catch on a long pass and Jim Timmons was outstanding on defense. In the surprise of the week, the Sigma Nus defeated the KA’s 14-13 and then continued their rise to flickerball fame with a 37-4 win over the Sig Eps. Rick Fitzer again led the Nus with pinpoint passing and timely signal calling. Newcomer John Mason was again outstanding as a pass receiver. The Phi Delts won their only game of the week by a 34-0 margin over the Sig Eps. Terry O'Hair and Vance Taylor shared the passing duties and Mike Thurman intercepted three passes on defense. The SAE's split two close games to bring their season record to 2-3. After edging the Sig Eps 24-20, they lost to the Sigma Chi's by a 20-12 score. Mike Booe, Louis Hill, Neal McBride, and Cotton Alston excelled for the SAE's while Geordie Muller and Mike Smith were outstanding in the Sigma Chi victory. The Phi Gams slipped by the KA’s in the only other game 13-6. Independents 42 13. The elusive DuBose was aided by a well-balanced offense in which ends Larry Compton and Tommy Reams, center John McKinley, and halfbacks Ray Garrison and Joe Jelks provided most of the action. The ATO's continued their winning ways with victories over the Pikas 33-0 and the Pi Kapps 25-6. Tailback Dave Hardeman combined with Thom Blair and Dave Townsend for most of the scoring, Skip Waite and Whitey Lockman also turned in valuable performances. The Betas stayed undefeated by stopping the Pi Kapps 33-12 in their only game of the week. Jack Sherrill continued his fine play at tailback with scoring tosses to top receiver, Mac Otts, Gene Ferris, and Alan Turner. Mo Bethea set up the first touchdown with an excellent catch on a long pass and Jim Timmons was outstanding on defense. In the surprise of the week, the Sigma Nus defeated the KA’s 14-13 and then continued their rise to flickerball fame with a 37-4 win over the Sig Eps. Rick Fitzer again led the Nus with pinpoint passing and timely signal calling. Newcomer John Mason was again outstanding as a pass receiver. The Phi Delts won their only game of the week by a 34-0 margin over the Sig Eps. Terry O'Hair and Vance Taylor shared the passing duties and Mike Thurman intercepted three passes on defense. The SAE's split two close games to bring their season record to 2-3. After edging the Sig Eps 24-20, they lost to the Sigma Chi's by a 20-12 score. Mike Booe, Louis Hill, Neal McBride, and Cotton Alston excelled for the SAE's while Geordie Muller and Mike Smith were outstanding in the Sigma Chi victory. The Phi Gams slipped by the KA’s in the only other game 13-6. Independents 42 13. The elusive DuBose was aided by a well-balanced offense in which ends Larry Compton and Tommy Reams, center John McKinley, and halfbacks Ray Garrison and Joe Jelks provided most of the action. The ATO's continued their winning ways with victories over the Pikas 33-0 and the Pi Kapps 25-6. Tailback Dave Hardeman combined with Thom Blair and Dave Townsend for most of the scoring, Skip Waite and Whitey Lockman also turned in valuable performances. The Betas stayed undefeated by stopping the Pi Kapps 33-12 in their only game of the week. Jack Sherrill continued his fine play at tailback with scoring tosses to top receiver, Mac Otts, Gene Ferris, and Alan Turner. Mo Bethea set up the first touchdown with an excellent catch on a long pass and Jim Timmons was outstanding on defense. In the surprise of the week, the Sigma Nus defeated the KA’s 14-13 and then continued their rise to flickerball fame with a 37-4 win over the Sig Eps. Rick Fitzer again led the Nus with pinpoint passing and timely signal calling. Newcomer John Mason was again outstanding as a pass receiver. The Phi Delts won their only game of the week by a 34-0 margin over the Sig Eps. Terry O'Hair and Vance Taylor shared the passing duties and Mike Thurman intercepted three passes on defense. The SAE's split two close games to bring their season record to 2-3. After edging the Sig Eps 24-20, they lost to the Sigma Chi's by a 20-12 score. Mike Booe, Louis Hill, Neal McBride, and Cotton Alston excelled for the SAE's while Geordie Muller and Mike Smith were outstanding in the Sigma Chi victory. The Phi Gams slipped by the KA’s in the only other game 13-6. Independents 42 13. The elusive DuBose was aided by a well-balanced offense in which ends Larry Compton and Tommy Reams, center John McKinley, and halfbacks Ray Garrison and Joe Jelks provided most of the action. The ATO's continued their winning ways with victories over the Pikas 33-0 and the Pi Kapps 25-6. Tailback Dave Hardeman combined with Thom Blair and Dave Townsend for most of the scoring, Skip Waite and Whitey Lockman also turned in valuable performances. The Betas stayed undefeated by stopping the Pi Kapps 33-12 in their only game of the week. Jack Sherrill continued his fine play at tailback with scoring tosses to top receiver, Mac Otts, Gene Ferris, and Alan Turner. Mo Bethea set up the first touchdown with an excellent catch on a long pass and Jim Timmons was outstanding on defense. In the surprise of the week, the Sigma Nus defeated the KA’s 14-13 and then continued their rise to flickerball fame with a 37-4 win over the Sig Eps. Rick Fitzer again led the Nus with pinpoint passing and timely signal calling. Newcomer John Mason was again outstanding as a pass receiver. The Phi Delts won their only game of the week by a 34-0 margin over the Sig Eps. Terry O'Hair and Vance Taylor shared the passing duties and Mike Thurman intercepted three passes on defense. The SAE's split two close games to bring their season record to 2-3. After edging the Sig Eps 24-20, they lost to the Sigma Chi's by a 20-12 score. Mike Booe, Louis Hill, Neal McBride, and Cotton Alston excelled for the SAE's while Geordie Muller and Mike Smith were outstanding in the Sigma Chi victory. The Phi Gams slipped by the KA’s in the only other game 13-6. Independents 42 13. The elusive DuBose was aided by a well-balanced offense in which ends Larry Compton and Tommy Reams, center John McKinley, and halfbacks Ray Garrison and Joe Jelks provided most of the action. The ATO's continued their winning ways with victories over the Pikas 33-0 and the Pi Kapps 25-6. Tailback Dave Hardeman combined with Thom Blair and Dave Townsend for most of the scoring, Skip Waite and Whitey Lockman also turned in valuable performances. The Betas stayed undefeated by stopping the Pi Kapps 33-12 in their only game of the week. Jack Sherrill continued his fine play at tailback with scoring tosses to top receiver, Mac Otts, Gene Ferris, and Alan Turner. Mo Bethea set up the first touchdown with an excellent catch on a long pass and Jim Timmons was outstanding on defense. In the surprise of the week, the Sigma Nus defeated the KA’s 14-13 and then continued their rise to flickerball fame with a 37-4 win over the Sig Eps. Rick Fitzer again led the Nus with pinpoint passing and timely signal calling. Newcomer John Mason was again outstanding as a pass receiver. The Phi Delts won their only game of the week by a 34-0 margin over the Sig Eps. Terry O'Hair and Vance Taylor shared the passing duties and Mike Thurman intercepted three passes on defense. The SAE's split two close games to bring their season record to 2-3. After edging the Sig Eps 24-20, they lost to the Sigma Chi's by a 20-12 score. Mike Booe, Louis Hill, Neal McBride, and Cotton Alston excelled for the SAE's while Geordie Muller and Mike Smith were outstanding in the Sigma Chi victory. The Phi Gams slipped by the KA’s in the only other game 13-6. Independents 42 13. The elusive DuBose was aided by a well-balanced offense in which ends Larry Compton and Tommy Reams, center John McKinley, and halfbacks Ray Garrison and Joe Jelks provided most of the action. The ATO's continued their winning ways with victories over the Pikas 33-0 and the Pi Kapps 25-6. Tailback Dave Hardeman combined with Thom Blair and Dave Townsend for most of the scoring, Skip Waite and Whitey Lockman also turned in valuable performances. The Betas stayed undefeated by stopping the Pi Kapps 33-12 in their only game of the week. Jack Sherrill continued his fine play at tailback with scoring tosses to top receiver, Mac Otts, Gene Ferris, and Alan Turner. Mo Bethea set up the first touchdown with an excellent catch on a long pass and Jim Timmons was