Che Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Selah --- Stitt

If any Grand Finale editorials about this year are written, they'll be written by Charlie Dibble. These two editorials are, contrary to any known journalistic policies, primarily for the benefit of the editors writing them. I wish to express my particular thanks to Tim Kimrey (Associate Editor Emeritus), Tom Loflin, and Rick Lowery for their respective roles this year in making this newspaper readable again. Also to Charles Ramberg, Jimmy Downey, and John Todd—these three do the background work that keeps this thing coming out once a week. Besides being highly competent and a pleasure to work with, above all they've been loyal, and that has meant an awful lot.

Many people have complimented us at length this year when we were on their side on a particular issue. But as issues changed, things got mean when the backslappers were touched personally. Therefore, I also want to express much appreciation to some people I think of in frequent states of mild paranoia as the Good Guys. These are the people that are intellectually and spiritually big enough to accept other people as worthwhile human beings, even if the “others” are twenty-year-old college kids purporting to have the definitive word on nearly everything. Although these people have frequently taken violent exception to things we’ve written, they have never taken exception to us. Three people ranking high in this category include two trustees, Dr. J. McDowell Richards and Dr. Tolly Thompson, both of whom have a rare understanding of the Christian ethic of genuine basic respect for one’s fellow man. The third is Dr. D. Grier Martin, who has always been extremely decent to us even when he has had more than adequate cause to be otherwise.

In mentioning those three, we omit the names of several others who have helped us this year in keeping attitudes positive, and to those we are equally indebted. They have written or called from time to time throughout the year just to generally wish us well. The Good Guys have meant a lot, too.

Finally, my thanks to one Charlie Dibble, who has put more time and creative effort into the paper this year than anyone else on the staff, including the editor. That he will put out a fine paper next year is beyond all doubt. The best of everything to him and his staff.

DTS

And Lowery

The past year has been a very pleasurable one for me. The pleasure has been the result of an opportunity to come in contact with a great variety of people. These have been athletes, coaches, and people. I’ve had an opportunity to see the effects (before and after) of a successful athletic team. The effects have probably done more to foster a genuine interest in Davidson on the part of students, alumni, and friends than any other single event in my memory. In addition, this team has probably been more successful in fracturing the semi-isolation effect that the fraternity system has had on this campus than any other recent event.

I’ve had an opportunity to see tennis and baseball reinstated to positions of respectability, a chance to see many fine athletes, and many not so fine. But the pleasure of the job has been provided by the people of the “little” newspaper world. Such people as Charlie Dibble, David Stitt, and Tom Loflin, to name a few. Most important, however, is the man whose title is Assistant Sports Editor—Bob Strauser. The use of the term “assistant” is misleading. Bob has been one-half Editor; I, the other half. To recount the work, laughs, and spears experienced would make pretty maudlin reading for anyone else, but I thought I’d make my gratitude formal to Bob Strauser for the work and time he’s invested. It’s been my pleasure.

RCL

Heads For Tournament

Moundsmen Paul Briggs and Howard Bryan limited opposing batters to three hits and recorded 18 strikeouts Tuesday to lead Coach Tom Stevens’ baseballers to a 14-2 romp over Belmont Abbey that evened the Wildcats’ record at 1-1. This afternoon the team left for a road trip which includes two games with Georgia Southern and the Rollins Invitational Tournament. Briggs, who got credit for the victory, recorded 8 strikeouts and allowed 2 hits and 1 earned run in four frames. Bryan fanned 10 and permitted one hit and no runs in the last four innings.

Don Davidson and Steve Heckard headed the attack at the plate, which pounded out 15 hits to give the pitching duo ample support. Davidson managed 3 hits and 4 RBIs, while Heckard reached base 4 times through 2 hits, a walk, and being hit by the pitcher once.

Friday afternoon, Barry Teague starts on the hill for Stevens as Davidson meets Georgia Southern, last year's NAIA champion, in a contest at Statesboro, Georgia. Either Dick Snyder or Dave Johnson will hurl against the Georgians Saturday in the ‘Cats’ last game before the Rollins Invitational Tournament in Winter Park, Florida. Davidson will play Rollins, Duke, and Colby twice each in the round-robin tourney, which is scheduled for March 30-April 4. Rained out games with Pfeiffer, Friday, and Kent State, Wednesday, delayed the ‘Cats’ home opener until April 14, when Furman travels to Davidson for a doubleheader.

Seniors Win Major Graduate Fellowships

A total of six major fellowships for graduate study have been awarded to Davidson seniors. These include a Marshall Fellowship, a Rockefeller Fellowship, and four Woodrow Wilson Fellowships. John Spratt, student body president from York, S. C., is one of 24 American seniors named as a recipient of a Marshall fellowship. These grants, valued at $2,500 and made annually by the British government, are for a two-year period of study and include tuition, books, and travel expenses to and from Oxford.

Spratt is planning to work toward final honors in philosophy, politics, and economics at Corpus Christi College. Winner of a Rockefeller scholarship—the Booth Ferris Theological Fellowship—is senior Joe Howell, president of the YMCA, from Nashville, Tenn. This grant of approximately $2,300 entitles the recipient to an expense-paid year of study at any seminary in the United States. Howell is planning to enter Union Seminary in New York next fall.

Four seniors have been named Woodrow Wilson Fellows—Mark Dunn of New Bern, N. C.; John Hall of Damascus, Va.; Phil Lewis from Kingsport, Tenn.; and Grier Stephenson of Covington, Ga. A Wilson fellow is granted full tuition and fees for the first year at the graduate school of his choice, as well as a stipend of $1,800 and dependency allowances.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editor
Managing Editors
Jeff Wampler
Photographers
Charles Dibble
Charles Ramberg
Cartoonists
Assistant Editors
Rick von Unwerth
Duncan Newcomer
Assignments Editor
Feature Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
News Editor
Photography Editor
Joe McCutchen
John Todd
Tom Loflin
Rick Lowery
Bob Strauser
Jim Downey

Tennis Season Young; Prospects Look Good

It is undoubtedly too early to make predictions which put the tennis team in the same paragraph with soccer and basketball. The season is young, and the present 3-0 record means very little perhaps. The victories have been easy, even though they have been of a substantial nature. After two victories last week over Cumberland College and Ohio Wesleyan University, the Fogelman Fuzzballers made it three in a row by trouncing Kent State 7-2. The first two Wildcats, Bill Shutt and Dave Meschan, were defeated by Kent State's number one and two men, but under the steady playing of Dick Hurd and Woody Cleveland the Wildcats fought back from behind to tie the score 2-2. Then Davidson's depth began to show itself as Frank Baumgardner and John Ariail took the remaining singles matches and as all three ‘Cat doubles teams of Cleveland and Hurd, Meschan and Jeff Frank, and Baumgardner and Ariail swept their matches.

On Wednesday Amherst was set to try to stop the season’s win streak at three games, but rain prevented any upset attempt. There is a good chance that Amherst will get a shot at Davidson later in the season, as both teams will soon journey to Florida and may possibly meet on a neutral court there. Amherst would have been the best team of the first four Davidson faced. It also would have been the first of three straight days of tennis for the team if the match had not been rained out.

The Track

John Barrow
The Track Harrow

Turner Paces Thinclads Past L-R And High Point

The Wildcat track team held its first meet of the outdoor season in Richardson Stadium Saturday afternoon. With Alan Turner taking four first places and Denny Phillips having the best afternoon of his athletic career, Davidson won the meet. Finishing in second place was Lenoir Rhyne with 73 points and five first places; bringing up the rear wasHigh Point with 32 points. Dick Snyder set a school record yesterday in the triple jump, as he hopped, stepped, and jumped for 45 feet, 1 inch; however, the ‘Cats fell to the powerful William and Mary thinclads yesterday in a Southern Conference dual track meet at Richardson Field, 90-55. After the meet, Davidson's Phillips said, “Undoubtedly, this was the best meet I've ever had.” On a soggy track, he ran a 4:35.5 mile and carded a 2:03.2 in the 880 to win both events.

Slater Regains ‘A’ Rating; Rats, Roaches Repelled

The Davidson College Student Union cafeteria has had its health-grade notice returned with a grade of “A” but with a 1.8 percent decrease in sanitation rating. Inspector Noah Walters, who had removed the notice and advised cafeteria manager H. R. Bryson to clean up the kitchen, said in a recent interview that “just about everything was improved.” He added that he saw “no evidence of roaches or rats” on a recent visit. Bryson stated that really not much more than routine cleaning procedures had been employed. He did say that he had “stepped up the pest control rate.” He further emphasized that the cafeteria would always strive to improve its rating.

But Slater’s woes have not been confined to the Davidson campus. The following appeared in a recent issue of the University of South Carolina Gamecock:

“Foreign particles, so often found in food prepared by the Slater Food Service, will soon be a thing of the past.

“In an exclusive interview this week with The Gamecock Assistant Manager Editor, George M. Troup professed awareness of the fact that foreign particles are found in the food and promised that Slater would conduct an all-out battle against this menace to the health of the USC student. ... cafeteria facilities. Students frequently express dissatisfaction with the limited choice of vegetables, especially concerning the ever-present green beans; yet Mr. Troup insists that green beans remain the biggest seller.”

Spratt Cites Progress On Two-Way Front

President John Spratt reported to the Student Council this week on the results of several proposals made to the Student-Faculty Conference Committee concerning the “campusing” restriction. No one on the committee, which consists of faculty and student representatives, objected to giving the Honor Court priority of jurisdiction in cases involving the campusing penalty and/or overcutting required exercises. Spratt said that President D. G. Martin had asked Dean Richard C. Burts to submit a memo to the Faculty Executive Committee; therefore, nothing definite will be known until next month.

The trial system of allowing morning church attendance in the town of Davidson to substitute for required vespers attendance will definitely be in effect again next year, Spratt said; however, the number of substitutions allowed in town will probably be limited. Spratt said that he spoke out against allowing out-of-town church attendance to substitute for vespers, “mainly because it would defeat the only purpose I know of for having required vespers, that is, for corporate worship,” he said. Also, it would add a severe strain on the honor system.

Elections Board Chairman Walt MacDonald said that more ballots would be printed this week to prevent either of the polling places from running short, as happened last week. Spratt said that he hoped the council would be able to publish a reading list before the exam period. He appointed several members to check with the department heads about the idea. One council member, Hill Wellford, a senior, has attended only one weekly meeting since December. Spratt asked secretary Andy Little to drop his name from the roll if he could not account for his absences. Eleven members attended Monday night’s meeting from a total of 16 representatives.

Festival (Continued From Page One)

Auditorium, the Juilliard String Quartet. April 30 and May 2, 8:15 p.m., “Two Blind Mice” by Samuel Spewack presented by the Department of Drama and Speech. Art exhibitions through May will display the work of Preston Faggart, Gordon Mahy, Timothy Whitehead, and Davidson College students.

Dr. Marcus Bloch, L-Hy President Eastern Magical Society P. O. Box 118 New York 9, N. Y.

Hub Office with 87 points and 11 first places. High scorer for the 'Cats was Alan Turner. He won the 100-yard dash in ten flat, the 220-yard dash in 22.3, and the 220-yard low hurdles in 26.6. He also anchored the winning 440 relay team. Star Evins, Tommy Worrall, and Steve Gill combined with Turner to finish the quarter in 44.9.

Captain Billy Mills, who holds the Davidson pole vault record at 12'7", tied with Zeke Campbell of Lenoir Rhyne for first place in that event at 12 feet. David Brown won the high hurdles for the Wildcats in 16.2 and placed in the high jump, broad jump, pole vault, and triple jump. Mike Thurman threw the javelin 161 feet, 11 inches for a third place. The ‘Cats wound up the afternoon by sweeping all three places in the high jump, Rufus Adair finishing first with a leap of six feet.

On Campus

(Author of "Rally Round the Flag, Boys!" and "Barefoot Boy With Cheek.")

WELL-KNOWN FAMOUS PEOPLE: No. 1

This is the first in a series of 48 million columns examining the careers of men who have significantly altered the world we live in. We begin today with Max Planck.

Max Planck (or The Pearl of the Pacific, as he is often called) gave to modern physics the law known as Planck’s Constant. Many people when they first hear of this law, throw up their hands and exclaim, “Golly whiskers, this is too deep for little old me!”

Incidentally, speaking of whiskers, I cannot help but mention Personna Stainless Steel Razor Blades. Personna is the blade for people who can’t shave after every meal. It shaves you closely, cleanly, and more frequently than any other stainless steel blade on the market. The makers of Personna have publicly declared—and do here repeat—that if Personna Blades don’t give you more luxury shaves than any other stainless steel blade, they will buy you whatever blade you think is better. Could anything be more fair? I, for one, think not.

But I digress. We were speaking of Planck's Constant, which is not, as many think, difficult to understand. It simply states that matter sometimes behaves like waves, and waves sometimes behave like matter. To give you a homely illustration, pick up your pencil and wave it. Your pencil, you will surely agree, is matter—yet look at the little rascal wave! Or take flags. Or Ann-Margret.

Planck’s Constant, uncomplicated as it is, nevertheless provided science with the key that unlocked the atom, made space travel possible, and conquered denture slippage. Honors were heaped upon Mr. Planck (or The City of Brotherly Love, as he is familiarly known). He was awarded the Nobel Prize, the Little Brown Jug, and Disneyland. But the honor that pleased Mr. Planck most was that plankton were named after him. Plankton, as we know, are the floating colonies of one-celled animals on which fishes feed. Plankton, in their turn, feed upon one-half celled animals called krill (named, incidentally, after Dr. Morris Krill who invented the house cat). Krill, in their turn, feed upon peanut butter sandwiches mostly—or, when they are in season, cheeseburgers.

But I digress. Back to Max Planck who, it must be said, showed no indication of his scientific genius as a youngster. In fact, for the first six years of his life he did not speak at all except to pound his spoon on his bowl and shout “More gruel!” Imagine, then, the surprise of his parents when on his seventh birthday little Max suddenly cried, “Papa! Mama! Something is wrong with the Second Law of Thermodynamics!” So astonished were the elder Plancks that they rushed out and dug the neighbors.

Meanwhile Max, constructing a crude Petrie dish out of two small pieces of petrie and his gruel bowl, began to experiment with thermodynamics. By dinner time he had discovered Planck’s Constant. Hungry but happy, he rushed to Heidelberg University to announce his findings. He arrived, unfortunately, during the Erich von Stroheim Sesquicentennial, and everyone was so busy dancing and duelling that young Planck could find nobody to listen to him. The festival, however, ended after two years and Planck was finally able to report his discovery.

Well sir, the rest is history. Einstein gaily cried, “E equals mc squared!” Edison invented Marconi. Eli Whitney invented Georgia Tech, and Michelangelo invented the ceiling. This later became known as the Humboldt Current.