FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1964

Side Lights BY RICK LOWERY

FAME & FORTUNE... Davidson College, we are told, enjoys an excellent reputation as a liberal arts college. I really can't
disagree with this judgment, especially when it refers to a reputation among educators and a terribly local segment of the
general population. But quite frankly, people never heard of this school in New York, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, etc. Oh, a
few guidance counselors and some old replants from this area have heard the word, but other than that Davidson is
like a lamp not lit.

I'm from Washington, D. C., and most of the conversation about Davidson in that area is of the variety, "Where
is it? . . . Oh, yes. Is that Charlotte in South Carolina or North Carolina?" Even Dean Rusk didn’t
help. Some people don't even know who Dean Rusk is, but those that know are quite aware that he attended
Oxford. Who was the last innocent bystander (you actually heard) who offered the information that Dean Rusk attended Davidson? Why
should anyone care if the public is ignorant about the existence of Davidson? It is toward this question that I
have been plodding. I believe anyone can see the individual benefits that would accrue through the increase in the general
familiarity of what the Davidson diploma means. The question above, however, is even more important to this college. Each year
the admissions office tells us that more and better students are applying to Davidson. For today this is fine, but
the only means toward excellence for a school seems strangely related to competitive athletics—obtaining increasingly better academic and personally talented
men. If this college is to get such men, it must compete against not only Southern liberal arts colleges but
against universities and colleges in both North and South. In short, for this college to become an excellent school, it
must be prepared to attract the best students through its faculty, curriculum, and reputation. The school must provide faculty, curriculum...
Reputations are made over a great many years and reflect a general trend, but fame is a funny thing. And
reputation without fame is local.

This Christmas 12 basketball players, three managers, a couple of coaches, and a publicity department brought Davidson College into many
homes in New England, the Southwest, and places where Davidson had not existed. Speaking from personal experience, in New England,
I found that people, for the first time since I have traveled in that area, asked where Davidson was, not
to make conversation but out of genuine interest. The first thing they wanted to talk about was the basketball team
but, almost always, the conversation developed into an interest to learn something about the school. The Davidson basketball team has
made this college famous overnight. Yet, I understand there are mutterings and questions about whether or not Davidson can handle
such publicity. I don’t understand these questions. Why can’t this college handle the publicity from basketball? Almost without exception I
have found that in every publicity announcement, Davidson basketball and academics have been tied together. People in other areas have
connected the two together (from my experience). Davidson still has an admissions committee with its own procedure. This committee, I
believe, will safeguard the college from the rush of unqualified Northern and Western students. But why would this college be
particularly proud of the fact that only 1000 men apply here each year? How will the added publicity injure this
college? In fact, how can the added publicity do anything but benefit the college? If one qualified student comes to
Davidson because his curiosity was whetted by a basketball team, then the college will have gained something more than a
sense of pride and identification from this basketball team. The admissions committee may have to work harder; also, they may
have more from which to select—but I don’t think they’d mind.

NO NOE... Tuesday night Lexington, Va., turned out en masse to get a look at a winning team. Understandably they
were not for Davidson. Tuesday night the whole cadet corps at VMI turned out to see a winning team. Understandably,
they made a lot of noise. Tuesday night Davidson won its eleventh straight game, and in doing so raised an
interesting question—what will a home game be like in Johnston Gymnasium? This year three games have been played in the
campus gym. At none of these games was the whole student body present. The crowds were held down due to
the vacation schedules. In the near future, The Citadel will play at Davidson before the whole student body, dates, and
visitors. The obvious problems of seats, tickets, and crowds are the worry of the athletic department. Another situation arises, however,
from the conditions of a crowded gym full of Davidson supporters. This is a simple matter of courtesy. A visiting
team, its staff, and referees demand respectful treatment. Anything less can only be described as “bush.”

Respect is nothing on which you can put your finger. More accurately, there are things which it is not. Throwing
objects or in any way intimidating either officials or players, it is not. Constant harassment of officials and coaches by
organized cheering sections, it is not. Having a band play directly behind the opposing team, it is not. None of
the above “nots” have anything to do with yelling, cheering, clapping, or just saying nothing, but avoiding them represents a
certain attempt to allow 10 men to play a basketball game. In South Carolina before Christmas, if all reports are
true, a highly partisan crowd tried to “help” the Gamecocks beat Duke. The resulting opinions in the press and among
neutral observers as a result of this game speak for themselves.

At the present time, Davidson has a winning team quite definitely of championship caliber. It would be disgusting indeed if
the reputation and quality of this team were given a public whipping due to the infantile and ungracious behavior of
a group of people whose greatest fault would be that they wanted to win.

OH YES... Just as the referees deserve respectful treatment from all spectators, so does the spectator deserve the opportunity of
watching a basketball game, a game forcefully and surely called but not made burlesque by the activities of the official.
If the clowning must take place, how about during time-outs? Or better still, let the players do the clowning. After
all, they are the ones playing the game and it’s still called basketball.

WHERE'S TEAGUE? Nine, one picture, that’s the situation Saturday night as Davidson IMAC BASKETBALL STANDINGS Kappa Sigs 2-0 Phi Gams
2-0 ATO’s 1-0 Phi Delts 1-0 KA’s 2-1 SAE’s 2-1 Sigma Chis 2-1 Independents 1-1 Betas 1-2 Pikas 1-3 Pi
Kapps 0-1 Sigma Nus 0-2 Sig Eps 0-3

Hapless Tigers Fall In Opening BY BOB STRAUSER

In what could be a long season for the ’Cat swimming team, victory came early and decisive. Coach Dwight Shoe’s
squad met Clemson here on Dec. 5 and left the pool with a 62-33 win and a mild upset. Davidson
took the medley relay with a time of 4:17.3. Coach Shoe noted that “Considering our record is 4:09 and that
this was the first meet of the year, this time was not bad.” In the 200 free, Jim Grey and
David Grant finished one-two with times of 2:10 and 2:16.3. Shoe described the rest of the meet as “nothing great
but showing promise.” Joe Hensley took the 50 free in 25.3, and Randy Hughes took first in the 200-individual. Bill
Jacobs managed a 97 in diving—good for second place. Other first place finishers were Jim Stokes (200 fly), David Grant
(100 free), John Alexander (200 back), Jim Grey (500 free), and Mark Waldron (200 breast). In the freshman meet several
‘Kitten swimmers came through with more-than-promising performances. Rich Holt turned in a 2:21.27 in the individual medley to break Barry
Branch’s (60) record time of 2:23.3. According to Shoe, John Helm is as good as we've ever had in the
100 fly.” Against Clemson, Helm had a 59.8, two seconds off the conference record.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Winter Clearance SALE Continues At Bush Wilson, Inc.

THE DAVIDSONIAN count ‘em, nine ballplayers in (Staff Photo by McCutchen) Paladins, Hurricanes, Tigers, ECC, WVa, VMI Fall stopped West
Virginia in the Coliseum by a score of 93-82.

IMAC Fights Fates As Scheduling Falters

At Davidson, the month of January has always proven a headache for those concerned with intramural scheduling and Sam Going,
IMAC president, is experiencing a normal attack of seasonal pains. As if normal delays were not enough, the schedule suffered
another setback Monday night with the power failure. Participants in the full slate of games for that night ended up
dressing by torchlight in the dungeon-like darkness of the locker room. Swimming was postponed last semester and may have to
be dropped altogether. According to Going, a date for the meet will not be set until the first IMAC meeting
after exams: if a date is set, it will definitely be before Midwinters. Also to be considered at that meeting
is the scheduling of handball. It has not been decided how this will be managed—round-robin, double elimination, or otherwise. Time
will be an important consideration in that decision.

The matter at hand, of course, is basketball. Originally it had been planned to complete IMAC play by the end
of the basketball season.but the holiday—Steve Barden in the distance exam period has slowed down free and Lloyd Davidson in
the play somewhat. “Some people won't like it,” said Going, “but it looks like the only way out of this
is to play on Saturday and Sunday afternoons.”

The freshmen won the Clemson meet and were edged out in the last relay of the Duke meet in Durham,
Dec. 6. Despite generally improved performances, the varsity lost decisively to the Blue Devil squad. Next Tuesday the squad goes
to Appalachian for a meet postponed from Dec. 12. The Apps were narrowly defeated by Wake Forest before Christmas and
from all reports will be difficult.

Coach Shoe bemoaned the fact that his squad is undermanned. “We are allowed two boys for each event,” he noted,
“But we don’t have enough boys to do so in all the events.” The meet on Tuesday will complete the
Cats' schedule until next semester.

Through the few basketball games played so far, it would appear that the Kappa Sigs, Phi Gams, and Independents are
the class of the league. These three teams have won five of their six games; the one loss came with
the upset win of the Pikas over the Independents, 54-53. Dave Johnson and Bennie Coxton were missing from the starting
five of the Independents; it is felt in some quarters that this may have had an effect.

In one of the best games of the young season, the Kappa Sigs downed the SAFs 55-51 after the game
had been tied, 23 all, at halftime; earlier the Sigs trounced the Pikas 54-16. Meanwhile, the Phi Gams took their
first two games with ease. They used a pressing defense and balanced attack to down the Sig Eps and Betas
by more than comfortable margins.

Davidson Scores, Schedule

RESULTS TO DATE
Hampden-Sydney 98 — 52
Wake Forest 66 — 53
St. Joseph's 88 — 77
Ohio State 90 — 73
Jacksonville 121 — 93
Furman 89 — 63
East Carolina 105 — 77
Pennsylvania 90 — 73
Princeton 102 — 68
West Virginia 93 — 82
VMI 70 — 58

SCHEDULE
Jan. 11 Va. Charlotte Col.
13 Citadel Davidson
15 Richmond Richmond
25 Wofford Davidson
29 W. Va. Va.
Feb. 1 VMI Davidson
4 W&M Norfolk, Va.
7 Ga. South. Davidson
11 Richmond Davidson
13 Furman Furman
15 Duke Duke
18 E. Carolina Davidson
22 The Citadel Citadel

Injury-Ridden Cats Meet Duke Tonight
BY DAVID POWELL

For the Davidson wrestling team, what promised to be a season of prosperity has suddenly turned into a season of
despair. Opening losses to VMI and Carolina, injuries, and graduation all seem to foreshadow ill for the Wildcat matmen. With
a brief, melancholic comment, Coach Charlie Parker looked to the rest of the season: “It looks rough from here on
out.”

Tonight the Cats tangle with Duke, an always formidable opponent—whether in basketball or wrestling. The match will be held at
Durham.

Much to Davidson’s disadvantage, there will be two starters out of action. Dick Wray, 137 pounder whose services will also
be lost at semester when he becomes a special student, will not wrestle because of an injury. The Red-Headed Terror,
Hugh Allen, will sub for him. Sam Glasgow, who showed promise in the 147-pound class with a win and a
close loss in his first two matches, is also out with an injury. With no replacement available, the Cats will
probably forfeit that class.

Returning as a starter in the 177-pound class will be Eric Nichols, who has been suffering from a neck injury.
It is not known, however, whether or not Nichols will be able to wrestle the remainder of the season. And
Joe Jones, the starter in the 157-pound class, will be lost from the team at semester when he graduates.

But there have been some bright spots in the generally gloomy wrestling picture. Mike Bisard and Billy Mills, living up
to expectations, have won both their matches. And others such as Glasgow have looked good in their wins and losses.

Following the match with Duke tonight, the Cats will meet N.C. State here next Wednesday. The match promises to be
a good one, with the freshmen meeting the State freshmen before the varsity’s tangle.

PAGE THREE

Side Lights
BY RICK LOWERY

LOOKING BACK

The harrowing holidays turned out to be anything but harrowing as the Cats rolled to six victories during the vacation.
On December 14, before a packed house, Davidson caught Jacksonville with a full court press, rolled up a 16-1 lead
in the first few minutes and ended the game, except for some interesting calculations as to the possible final score,
ranging from about a 300 point scoring pace to a 200 point clip, finally ending with 123 points. Fred Hetzel
scored 40 points despite a 12-minute cold stretch in the second half to establish this year’s single game high.

The following Thursday, Furman came to town hobbled by injuries to Larry Peacock and Don Frye. The Paladins adopted an
interesting offensive strategy for that game. They lined four of their starters including their pivot man near the half court
line and attempted to isolate Dick Snyder who was guarding David Selvy (Frank Selvy’s younger brother). Although this pattern proved
mildly successful, Davidson had no real trouble sweeping Furman off the court.

Next it was East Carolina in Norfolk, and in Coach Driesell’s own homecoming Fred Hetzel again led the way with
31 points as the Cats scored another impressive victory. By this time, rankings in the national polls were consistent and
the 7-0 roundballers returned to their homes for their own rather abbreviated holiday.

On December 30, 11,666 paying fans saw the beginning of a tournament that was disappointing in every way but two—Bill
Bradley and Davidson. The opening night saw one of the most fantastic individual performances ever given, as Bradley scored 46
points in every way imaginable, had an unofficial 11 assists, and entertained his mother. Bradley and very little else carried
Princeton over a disappointing, disorganized Texas team. The same night Davidson topped Pennsylvania.

New Year’s Eve saw another excellent individual effort, this time turned in by Terry Holland. In one of the most
underrated efforts in a long time, Holland held Bradley to about 23 points before leaving with six minutes to go
because of exhaustion. In his evening's work Holland blocked four of Bradley’s shots and almost completely held him off the
boards. Holland might have gone magic. Dick Snyder was scoring 21 and Hetzel 24 to lead Davidson to what many
have called its best game since Ohio State. Of further interest was the fact that Holland, Hetzel, Snyder, and Barry
Teague were named to the all-tournament team along with the tournament’s outstanding player, Bradley. Don Davidson placed sixth in the
voting. None of this came as any great surprise to those who looked on, for other than Bill Bradley there
was only Davidson.

Following the Christmas tournament, Davidson picked up a cheetah, several reams of publicity, and a win over West Virginia who
was playing what Coach George King described as their best game of the year. Before the eyes of Sports Illustrated,
“Big” Bill Ward and Bill Curry, Don Davidson scored 22 points as only he can score them (the court’s only
12 inches from baseline to where Davidson stops working) but again it was the bread-and-butter man Hetzel who scored 30
points, most of them in critical spots for Davidson's first win over the Mountaineers since anyone can remember.

But it was Tuesday night that Davidson played its most painful game to date—painful for the fans. This time it
was strictly the radio as the Cats took the road to Lexington, Va. Burdened by eight charging fouls and 26
turnovers (loss of ball without shot), Davidson managed a 12-point victory. Listening to a game by ear is a wonderful
thing. Especially wonderful when so much of the perception of what happened is represented in the statistics—and such statistics! The
initial report contained a total of 108 rebounds which may set a record for a game in which only 128
points were scored. These same reports contained an inflated number of shots and in general were none too accurate. The
answer seems to be that every time a ball was shot, slapped or thrown toward the basket, it was first
a shot and then a rebound.

Statistics or not, the Cats played one of their more ragged games again marked by the clutch shooting of Hetzel
and the outstanding defensive play of Don Davidson who held Bill Blair to four out of 21 for the evening.
Davidson’s defensive job was emphasized by the cry of some little voice in the background who kept insisting that Blair
not shoot so much.

Perhaps the most heartening development of the evening was the performance of two substitutes, Charlie Marcon and Bill Beerman. Both
entered the game in the final moments (the point difference had shrunk as low as four) in the place of
the departed Snyder (five fouls) and Davidson (five fouls). Marcon, no stranger to the starting five, needs little description. Shooting
a fabulous percentage for the year, Marcon has shown on several occasions that he has that “something” that will make
a team go.

ANOTHER DAY...

Four members of the Davidson College soccer team were named before Christmas to the All South Soccer Team. Those named
were Fred Schoen, Glen Hanes, Jan Brackel, and Walter Eckman.

Now Bus Station and The Hub
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...
PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.
