FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1964

CAT TALES BY JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

FOR WHAT IT’S WORTH

Another athletic season ends for Davidson with tonight’s baseball game against UNC. It’s been a pretty good one. Davidson's teams
combined for 78 wins against 48 losses—not bad for any school—as the soccer, basketball, and tennis teams combined to give
Davidson 49 of their wins and only 11 of their losses. At first, I thought I would comment on the
season as a whole and recap it, but there really isn’t much to say. The annual has a pretty good
summary, and I think little can be added to what Rick Lowery has said about the individual teams through the
year. However, I would like to say a few words about a few athletes who I think merit some extra
recognition in addition to their awards yesterday.

Every year an Outstanding Freshman Athlete award is given, and I'd like to give my selections, for whatever they’re worth,
for the outstanding athlete in each of the three upper classes. The sophomore class fielded some pretty fair athletes this
year, including David Brown, Jim Stokes, Dick Hurd, and Pack Hindsley (and Sonny Graves). But Dick Snyder, the “soph sensation,”
was undoubtedly the best in the class and is one of the best all-around athletes Davidson has ever produced. His
basketball heroics, highlighted by super efforts against Princeton (with All-America Bill Bradley playing him man-to-man) and Ohio State, are pretty
much well known to everybody. In baseball, he has been one of the Wildcats’ top sluggers all year long, as
well as one of the mainstays of the pitching staff. Participating on the track team when he had time, he
managed several firsts in the broad jump and the triple jump. It is too bad he doesn’t have the opportunity
to play every sport here. I don’t doubt that he could.

The juniors this year had several standouts, including Alan Turner, Steve Heckard, and three-sport man Don Davidson. However, there is
no question but that Fred Hetzel is the best. The honors bestowed on Hetzel this year are too numerous to
mention, as are all his great performances, but suffice it to say that Hetzel has brought more credit to Davidson
College than any single undergraduate in the history of the school.

Selection of the outstanding senior athlete isn't as clear-cut as the other two. Terry Holland, Earl Cole, Benny Coxton, Billy
Mills, and Rick Smyre could all qualify, but my choice is football co-captain Russ Walls. Russ’s continuous determination and aggressive
action throughout the football season won him a share of the LaFar defensive trophy, and he also won the award
for the top academic average on the team. In addition to playing football, Russ wrestled in the heavyweight bracket on
the wrestling team and was one of Coach Parker’s few consistent winners.

A TURNING POINT?

Coach Dole has finished recruiting the freshman football squad, and it really looks like this team may be a turning
point in Davidson football. Fourteen players are dividing approximately eight scholarships between them, but Coach Dole seems to have done
a really good job in making use of the money he has. Three Shrine Bowlers—Pete Glidewell of Reidsville, Kim Johnson
of Rockingham, and Billy Taylor of Kinston—head the freshman roster. Perhaps the best-known recruit, Taylor quarterbacked the North Carolinians in
the Shrine game, but Coach Dole reports that he will use Taylor as a halfback to take full advantage of
his running ability. Other “name” players among the recruits are Ken Vogel, an All-State tackle from Connecticut; Chip Scharfschwerdt, a
Florida quarterback who was sought also by Georgia Tech; and Lowell Bryan, an All-Conference tackle from Arlington, Virginia who was
accepted at both Dartmouth and Harvard and was offered a full scholarship to an ACC school.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By FORREST ROLES

Davidson’s red hot baseball team, described by Coach Tom Stevens as “the best I’ve ever coached at Davidson,” finished with
its best Southern Conference record in recent years by downing Citadel and George Washington twice each last week.

Davidson Athletic Director Tom Scott announced today that Davidson’s basketball team will join Duquesne, Ohio University, and Alabama in the
Second Annual Invitational on December 28 and 29. Ohio will bring the most outstanding visiting team to Charlotte, fielding a
predominantly veteran squad that includes the nucleus of this year’s team that beat both Louisville and Kentucky in the NCAA
Mideast Regionals before bowing out to Michigan in the finals. Coach James Snyder's Bobcats will be a formidable opponent.

Delts Take IMAC Title: Sigs Are Second Again

All IMAC sports races, with the single exception of volleyball, are now completed, and the winners of the IMAC Championship,
regardless of the outcome of the volleyball tournament, are the Phi Delts for the eighth straight year. The tennis tournament
was the first IMAC sports event to be concluded this week. Phi Delts Buzzy Parker and Paul Stotts defeated Pikas
Chris Hawk and Bob O'Kelley 6-4, 6-2, to win the tennis crown and remain undefeated in the double elimination tournament.

All softball games postponed during the regular schedule were played this week. The final softball standings were as expected, with
the exception of the Kappa Sigs’ final record. The Phi Gams won the softball race with an 11-1 record. There
would have been a tie for first place if there had been no upsets in the final week of play,
but the Kappa Sigs dropped a game Wednesday afternoon to the Pikas. This loss dropped them from a tie for
first place into a tie for second with the Phi Delts, at 10-2 records. Closely following the softball leaders at
nine wins and three losses are the Sigma Chis, who have the distinction of being the only team to beat
the Phi Gams this year.

The volleyball tournament remains the one IMAC sports event yet to be concluded. At present, the Phi Delts still remain
the victors of the winners’ bracket in the double-elimination tournament, while the Pikas and the Kappa Sigs face each other
for the top spot in the losers’ bracket.

IMAC TOTAL POINTS
Phi Delt* 1118
Kappa Sig* 1052
Phi Gam 926
Sigma Chi* 822
KA 814
Beta 737
ATO 731
SAE 698
Pika* 697
SPE 608
Sigma Nu 504
Ind 477
Pi Kapp 418
*Points not yet determined exactly,

GW Netmen Cop League Title

By WAYNE LANE

The Southern Conference tennis tournament here this week marked the end of Davidson's best season in five years, but again
it was George Washington that remained supreme in the conference. The Wildcat netters presented the only serious challenge to George
Washington domination of honors. But the Colonials rolled over their early opponents and placed 9 men in the final round,
while the ‘Cats ran into stiffer competition and could only get six men into the championship round.

The bright spot for the ‘Cats was Bill Council’s upset win over G. W.’s Danny Singer in the fourth division.
Council was unbeatable in the first and third sets as he handily trimmed Singer, 6-2, 4-6, 6-0. Bill Schutt, the
‘Cats number one man, met Harrison in the second round on Tuesday. But Harrison's bid for his second consecutive singles
title was not to be denied. He downed Schutt and in the final round smashed Furman’s Steve Watson, 6-0, 6-1,
for the championship. Buddy Goeltz ran into trouble with Davidson's Dick Hurd in the second division final round. But Hurd
failed to capitalize on an early 5-1 lead in the second set and fell 6-4, 7-5. Steve Kahn then rolled
over Woody Cleveland, 6-4, 6-1, before Council downed Singer to put Davidson in the winner’s circle. Jerry Kahn defeated Jeff
Frank, 6-4, 6-2, and George Montalvan rocked Furman's George Linney to end the singles matches and put the Colonials out
of the Cats’ reach. John Ariail, Davidson’s number six man, was the only player not from George Washington to be
top-seeded and he was upset by Linney in Tuesday's matches.

In the doubles first division Davidson's Schutt and Council almost pulled the biggest upset of the tournament. GW's Harrison and
Rudy, expecting an easy repeat of last year’s win in the number one doubles division, were forced to play two
extended sets before finally downing the Wildcat pair, 10-8, 9-7. Kohn and Goeltz downed Jon Tennant and Perry Earle of
the Citadel. And a Singer-Montalvan combination had little trouble in tripping Ariail and Frank Baumgardner, 6-4, 6-0 to complete a
George Washington sweep of the doubles division.

The point totals given in the box on this page are not entirely accurate. The Kappa Sigs and the Phi
Delts have both been given second place points in volleyball tentatively to afford a more realistic point total, while the
Pikas have been given...Third place points. The Sigma Chi's have not yet turned in their handball results, but these points
cannot change any final standings. The only possible change would occur if the Pikas should do better than third in
volleyball, in which case the additional volleyball points would take them above the SAE's. The IMAC met Wednesday night and
discussed several important issues. President Mike Thurman stated, "Next year the IMAC will provide softball umpires in order to avoid
disputes that have arisen repeatedly during the year."

By JIM

Charlotte Invitational Basketball Tournament, December. The Wildcats finished the season as Mid American Conference champions with a 10-2 league record
and a 21-6 overall mark. Top returnee is 6'4" forward Don Hilt, an All-American candidate who made both the All-Conference
team and the Mideast Regionals All-Tournament team. Duquesne, an independent which finished with a 16-7 record this year, will return
four starters from the team that was third-seeded in the NIT this year and reached the quarterfinals before being upset
by Army. Leading the Dukes are two guards who are called by the Army coach "the best pair of backcourt
men in the country" — Willie Sommerset and Ron Willard. All-America hopeful Sommerset averaged 24.6 points per game as a
junior this year and Willard managed 17 per contest. Alabama will also return four starters from this year's squad that
finished fifth in the Southeastern Conference and compiled a 14-12 overall mark.

Junior Alan Turner received both the Merchant Award and the Fetzer Award for his top performances in track. Turner was
undefeated in both the 100 and 220 yard dashes in amassing his total of 96 points this season. Captain of
next year's basketball team, Fred Hetzel, who has set a new school record for scoring in only two years, was
designated the team's most valuable player. Don Davidson was presented the defensive trophy and Dick Snyder the foul shooting trophy.
Lefty took care of the chewing gum quite well. For our "doleful" football team, Russell Walls received the academic award
and, along with Earl Cole, the defensive plaque. Bill Dole, Jr. was given the blocking trophy and Mickey Andrews, a
freshman footballer, received the D Club's outstanding Freshman Athlete Award. Tom Heffner was selected most valuable member of the cross
country team and was awarded a place on the All-Southern Conference team. Jim Stokes and Billy Mills were designated the
most valuable swimmer and wrestler, respectively. Other most valuables were Rick Smyre for baseball, Doug McKeever for golf, Sandy Black
for rifle, and Mike Nemir for soccer.

Leading the experienced Crimson Tide will be senior center Bob Andrews, who averaged 14.5 points per contest this season, and
Charles Gary, who had a 13.2 average. Coach Lefty Driesell’s cagers won the first Charlotte Invitational this year by whipping
Pennsylvania, 90-72, and Princeton, 102-68. Davidson returns three members of the Invitational's All-Tournament team.

Athletes Reap Honors At Awards Assembly

WHITE

At the annual athletic awards day held in Chambers auditorium during chapel period yesterday, recognition was given to some of
those athletes who have helped make what is probably the best year ever for Davidson athletics.

Unusual Stamp Offer
300 colorful Yugoslavian stamps, all different, for only 5 dollars. Send cash, check or money order. Prompt delivery guaranteed by:
KLEIN, Steyr, Hafnerstrasse 4, Austria.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

The fun begins at HATTIE'S "just up the road...."

The Wildcats take on Atlantic Coast Conference Champion North Carolina in Gastonia tonight to try to push their current win
streak to ten straight. In the games last Saturday against the visiting Colonials, the potent 'Cat attack twice erupted in
the late innings to nullify early leads taken by the visitors and allow the Davidson pitchers to coast to easy
victories. In the first game, the 'Cats gave starter Dick Snyder his first real support of the year to hand
him a 6-3 victory. With the score tied 2-2 in the sixth inning, Davidson got run-scoring blows from two surprising
places. Captain Eddy Earle, batting .125 at the time, drove in two runs with a double, and left fielder Lance
Walker, a lusty .088 hitter, brought home two more with a single.

Tracksters Creamed In SC Meet
By TUCK JONES

Davidson scored 17½ points in the 1964 Southern Conference Track and Field Championships at Williamsburg, Saturday, to finish seventh in
the eight-school field. Powerful West Virginia had only three first places but counted heavily on superior depth to win with
56½ points, followed by defending champion Furman with 46½. The Citadel 41½, VMI 38, William and Mary 27½, VPI 27,
Davidson, 17½, and Richmond 3.

Wildcat sprint star Alan Turner overcame a bad start and a step and a half deficit to nip Furman’s Tommy
Thompson at the tape of the 100 yard dash in a record-tying 9.7. Turner then exploded from the blocks to
win the 220 easily in 21.3. His 100 time tied the meet record set by Walt Fillman of William and
Mary in 1957 and his 220 clocking was the best ever recorded in a conference meet except for Fillman’s 21.0
in the same year and is now a school record. Turner also anchored the Davidson 440 relay team, running behind
David Brown, Star Evins and Steve Gill, and ran a commendable third leg on the mile team, also including Joel
Morresett, Denny Phillips, and Gill, giving him 10½ of Davidson's points. Captain Bill Mills vaulted 13 feet in the pole
vault for the third week in a row to place third in that event. Denny Phillips got fifth in the
mile, Dick Snyder, fifth in the triple jump, and Rufus Adair a tie for fifth in the high jump to
round out the Davidson scoring. Will Dowden of Citadel set a new standard in the 330-yard intermediate hurdles with a
time of 37.6 and sophomore Jim Johnson of William and Mary missed by a fifth of a second in the
mile with 4:16.4.

Baseballers Rampage To Extend Streak To 9

The 'Cats waited only until the fifth frame before putting the game out of reach in the second contest. They
scored eight runs in that inning to take a practically insurmountable 11-2 lead. Shortstop Rick Smyre with two singles and
three runs batted in and left fielder Steve Heckard with a single and a triple and four RBI's led the
Davidson attack. Starter Dave Johnson, who seems to pitch only well enough to win, cruised to his third win in
four decisions with seventh inning help from Howard Bryan. Johnson struck out ten in the 11-5 victory.

Tuesday, the 'Cats built their Conference record to 9-5 with two wins over Citadel at Charleston. They beat the Cadets
(and two umpires whom both sides labeled incompetent) 3-2 and 8-4. In the opener, Wildcat starter Earle Cole bore down
when it counted to pick up his fifth win in six decisions. With some help from Davidson's unusually tight infield
defense and a strong wind blowing toward home plate, he stranded 11 of the 13 Cadet batters who reached base.
Stevens’ diamonders eked out one run in each of the fifth, sixth, and seventh innings on a bases-loaded hit batter,
a run-producing double by Steve Heckard, and a fielder's choice. The runs barely were enough to win as Cole retired
the last Citadel batter with tying and winning runs on base.

In the second encounter, Davidson’s infield made up for its strong play in the first game by allowing Citadel three
unearned runs, but the Citadel defense was even more porous, giving the visitors five unearned runs and an 8-4 victory.
'Cat starter Howard Bryan evened his record at 2-2 with a five-hitter, striking out six and walking only one. Dick
Snyder and Steve Heckard led at the plate with two hits each. The Wildcats enter tonight's game with a 14-12
record and are thus assured of their first winning season since 1958. They are also guaranteed of finishing third in
the conference, which is higher than any Davidson team has finished since Stevens began coaching here.

School Shirt Do Not Make

There is an infinite difference that really sets a Milton M2 button-down shirt apart. The perfect roll collar that evokes
more compliments than any shirt you've ever worn, just right body taper, longer collar under a jacket, long sleeves with
double pleats at the cuff as an added touch, plus longer trimmer half sleeves, all in finest impeccable single needle
tailoring. Long or half sleeves at same quotations. 1. Combed white oxfords — $5.95. 2. Large assortment of solids, lightweight
broadcloth candy stripes, new oxford stripings — $6.95. Discover why Milton's is a mecca for the cognoscenti.

Milton's Clothing Cupboard
Charlottetown Mall
Cupboards also in Chapel Hill, Atlanta, and Dallas
