DAVIDSON RELAYS TOMORROW (See Page Five)

SPRING FROLICS SPECIAL

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

SHELL-SHOT COUNCIL FIGHTS BACK (See Page Two)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1964 NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE VOL. LII

THREE PROPOSALS A P Underachievement Await Faculty Meeting

The faculty will act on three proposals which would alter year-end requirements, academic probation, and the underachievement program at its
next meeting early in May. The proposed changes were presented at the April 14 faculty meeting. Action was delayed, however,
to enable faculty members to study the six-page report thoroughly.

Underachievement is dealt with in detail in the report, which suggests that the current method of selecting underachievers be altered.
A tentative list of underachievers would be composed of those students whose averages are more than .50 below their predicted
averages. Also included on this tentative list would be the names of students whom faculty members consider to be underachievers
on the “basis of their course work during the preceding semester.”

The tentative list would then be sent to members of the faculty who either taught or were faculty advisers to
any of the listed students during the preceding semester. The individual professor would be asked to state in writing “whether
or not he recommends the awarding of the underachiever classification to any of the tentative underachievers about whom he has
special personal knowledge.” The members of the faculty would also be asked to furnish additional information on the students involved.

Working with the information collected, the Dean of Students would compile a final underachiever list and notify the students selected
and their parents. The dean would then arrange for the individual counseling of each underachiever. Should all other efforts fail,
the dean would refer the student to the Executive Committee of the Faculty which may require the student to withdraw
from the College for “not making a serious effort to do an acceptable quantity and quality of work.”

Members of the committee declined to comment on the proposal until after the next faculty meeting. The committee includes Dr.
Richard Bernard as chairman, Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Dr. Max Polley, Dr. Paul Marrotte,
and Dr. J. M. Frederickson.

The committee report also recommends altering the year-end requirements for entrance into each class. (See chart). Requirements for graduation—124 hours,
124 quality points—would remain unchanged. Under the proposed requirements, students having “senior” status would need no more than 33 hours
and quality points for graduation. Currently, it is possible for students to enter the senior year and still lack 39
hours and quality points for admission into the succeeding class:

NOW PROPOSED
Hours QP’s Hours QP's
Sophomore Class 24 18 25 22
Junior Class 54 48 61 58
Senior Class 85 81 91 91
Graduation 124 124 124 124

Forum’s Final Topic: Lefever Talks Politics

Dr. Ernest Lefever, Economic and Political Advisor to the United States government, closes out the YMCA’s Forums on Challenges to
the Christian Faith this coming Thursday, April 30. Engineered by Bill Ferris and Jay Federman, the Forums have brought Morgenau,
Scriven, Gary, Barchilon, the Coles, Mueller, and, seventh and last, Lefever.

Lefever at present is staff member of the International Studies Division of the Institute for Defense Analyses, professor of international
politics at American University, consultant to the Council on Religion and International Affairs, and lecturer at the Foreign Service Institute.
Lefever received his AB from Elizabethtown College and his BD and PhD from Yale. The first three years after World
War II he spent working among returning German prisoners of war, then later traveled in the Soviet Union, Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Hungary, and East Germany. In 1962 he worked through the Congo, Southern Rhodesia, Kenya, Egypt, the Gaza Strip, Pakistan, India,
South Vietnam, Paris, and London, studying the use of international military forces.

“The World Crisis and American Responsibility,” his Thursday morning chapel theme, will be an attempt to relate political analysis and
ethical norms. But not in abstract terms: as he says: “I

hours and 43 quality points toward graduation. Suggested too is a lightened workload for freshmen. A normal schedule for freshmen
would be 12 or 13 hours exclusive of basic ROTC. However, a freshman would be permitted to take additional courses
with the permission of his faculty adviser and the Dean of Students.

Academic probation in the proposed program would be replaced by an academic warning. Following each grade report, any student who
failed to make 12 hours and 12 quality points would be notified in writing by the Dean of Students. The
letter, in addition to stating that the student's work is unsatisfactory, would also direct the student to the Dean's office
immediately, “for counseling and for such additional action as may be considered advisable for the improvement of his academic standing.”

At present, any student placed on academic probation automatically loses his cuts. Under the proposed system, this penalty could still
be meted out by the Dean of Students, but only if he deemed it necessary after counseling. The committee's report
suggests that special academic probation be called “academic probation.” The basic requirement would remain the same: the unsatisfactory student would
have to complete his year-end requirements during summer school at Davidson in order to re-enter the College in September.

Former Dean Back For ODK Tapping

Dr. Samuel Spencer, president of Mary Baldwin College, and former dean of students at Davidson College, will speak at assembly,
Monday, April 27 for the Omicron Delta Kappa tapping ceremony. Dr. Spencer, himself an alumnus of Davidson (Class of 1940),
was a member of ODK, Phi Beta Kappa, and Kappa Alpha. In 1941 he returned to Davidson with the Military
Science Department; however, with the advent of World War II, he took an active part as a member of the
Officer Corps. With the war's end, Dr. Spencer again returned to Davidson, this time as a professor of history. After
only a brief time, he accepted the office of Dean of Students, which he was to hold for seven years
until he accepted the presidency of Mary Baldwin.

Local Agnostic - Architect Speaks Before Humanists

BY TOM LOFLIN

Bill Ferris’ informal Humanist group became a living reality last Thursday night in the Green Room of the Union. When
Howard Olive, an architect from Charlotte, got up and spoke about what his agnostic-Humanist faith meant for him, the group
moved actively into the theater of campus life. During the session a total of twenty people shifted in and out
of the room to hear the man who supervised construction of the Dana Science Building. The parents of a Davidson
senior were among those present.

“I think it’s very admirable,” Olive began, “that Davidson College has allowed its students to explore, publicly, some of the
ideas that are in direct conflict to its faith. As long as Dr. D. G. Martin will stand up and
lead as he has done, I think all will admire him.” (Olive was present at the specific invitation of Ferris
and not at the request of the college.)

Olive said that the American Humanist Association did not require its members to be non-believers in God. “But the association
considers itself a religious organization,” he added, “It regards Humanism as a higher religious movement, the next step forward for
man in religion.” Olive conceded that it would be very hard for a Christian or atheist to be a true
Humanist. “The association says there is not vertical intervention from a Supreme Being. I am not saying there is no
Supreme Being,” he went on, “but I have found no evidence to believe there is. Yet there is something which
pushes me to move in some direction toward bettering humanity. I have a drive I can’t explain to move and
not stand still.”

Olive defined Humanism, for him at least, as being the desire to improve humanity on earth without relying on any
outside intervention. After the formal talk, the parents approached Olive. The woman asked almost fearfully, with a look of horror
on her face, “What is your feeling about the after-life?” Olive replied that he really wasn't expecting to find any.
“I admit,” he chuckled, “if I'm wrong and the Christians are right that I'll be up the creek.” He added
that he had talked to a good many ministers.

The Red Cross Bloodmobile will return to the campus on Monday and Tuesday for the ROTC Department's semi-annual blood drive.
Cadets who donate blood and those medically excused will be exempted from Tuesday’s drill. The ROTC Department hopes to maintain
the record it established last year when cadets gave more pints of blood than students at any other college in
this area.Propose to deal primarily with the nature of the security dilemma and the necessity for arms control."

SPONSORED BY AAUP

Faculty Hears Clyde

Dr. Paul Clyde of the Duke Endowment Fund will speak to the Davidson chapter of the American Association of University
Professors in a dinner meeting to be held in the Morrison Room of the College Union at 7 p.m., Friday,
May 1. The meeting is open to all members of the faculty and administration and their wives. The Trustees and
the Board of Visitors have also been invited.

Dr. Clyde's topic will be “The Liberal Arts College in the Conflict Between Past and Future.” Dr. Jay H. Oswalt,
program chairman of the AAUP, described the meeting as one of a series of programs designed to “give the faculty
an opportunity to look at the broader functions of the college.”

In two previous programs this year, President Martin has discussed the Ten-Year Program at Davidson, and a panel of faculty
members has discussed the role of the faculty members in the life of the college.

The AAUP is composed of over 800 local chapters representing more than fifty thousand professors. About half of the Davidson
faculty are members.

A repeat performance

...ters who rejected the idea of eternal life. Upon leaving, however, the woman expressed her tolerance with the words, “I
think it’s been very stimulating. It’s good to think."

Ferris and company, still not formally organized, plan to get more mileage from their private challenges to the Christian Faith
program. A week from today, during the voluntary chapel period, Sidney Freeman will speak on “The Religious Aspects of Humanism.”
He is the minister of the Unitarian Church in Charlotte, to which anyone can belong “who is honestly seeking the
truth," as Ferris states it.

Spring Blooms, Booms As Frolickers Set Pace

Aiming for Spring Frolics as the most attraction-packed weekend blast of the year, the Interfraternity Council has lined up a
volley of two double-barrelled concerts for tonight and tomorrow. In response to a poll taken last fall, the IFC will
expend an estimated six thousand greenbacks to lure almost 500 girls to Davidson's campus for the annual weekend of frolicking.
Expenditures will go toward two concerts, the first beginning tonight at 7.

Joe and Eddie, the Serendipity Singers, and Fred Smoot will be in Chambers tonight for a two-intermission, three-hour concert. Smoot,
a comic who boasts a number of performances in nightclubs and Yankee colleges, will emcee. Twelve-string guitar fantasies, dramatic blackouts,
and comedy sketches are stock-in-trade for the Serendipity Singers, keynoted by a blend of “extraordinary sound en masse.” It all
adds up to Folk Jazz, folk orientation coupled with jazz instrumentation and arrangements.

Rounding out the program, Joe Gilbert, who hails from old New Orleans, and Eddie Brown, a native of Norfolk, will
demonstrate their specialty of rapid-fire folk song delivery. The duo has sung its way from San Francisco's Hungry i and
Purple Onion to New York’s Blue Angel, and features versatility that ranges from backwoods to Bach.

Tomorrow night the Four Saints and Bud and Travis will take the stage from 7 to 10. Vigorous counterpoint marks
the twosome’s style as their classical guitars become voices in themselves, accompanying a repertoire of folk melodies in ten languages
from Portuguese to Yiddish. Actor Tony Randall has decided that Bud and Travis “put the olive in folk music.” In
a return engagement, the Four Saints promise variety, from Broadway favorites to pops, connected by subtle wit in a musical
context. Leader John Howell plays 16 instruments; the others are just as versatile. Davidson's reaction to last year’s concert—“great... just
great.”

Rick von Unwerth, new IFC president, commented on the concerts: “We have arranged a varied program to match audience tastes.
Each attraction has a unique contribution to make.”

Ambitious Journalists Get Grants

Four Davidson students have been selected by The Newspaper Fund, Inc. of the Wall Street Journal to work as reporters
on daily newspapers this summer. Tom Craig, Rick von Unwerth, Buck Lawrimore, and Tom Loflin will receive a $500 scholarship
from The Newspaper Fund in addition to their regular salary after successfully completing ten weeks on their respective newspapers.

Craig, a sophomore from Moore, S. C., will serve on The Spartanburg Herald for the summer. Loflin, a senior this
year and feature editor for THE DAVIDSONIAN, will be a reporter for the Greensboro Daily News until January when he
plans to go into the Army. Lawrimore, a sophomore feature writer for THE DAVIDSONIAN, will work for the Charleston Evening
Post, while DAVIDSONIAN Associate Editor von Unwerth will be employed in Baton Rouge, Louisiana for the summer.

Last year two Davidson students, Charles Dibble and Charlie Ramberg, participated in the program. Dibble served as a reporter for
The News and Courier of Charleston, S. C., while Ramberg held a similar position on The Savannah Morning News. The
program was initiated several years ago to encourage students in liberal arts colleges to make a career of journalism. It
is aimed primarily at those students who have had no opportunity to work on a newspaper or to study journalism.
After being accepted by the Newspaper Fund, the student must apply for a position on one of the newspapers participating
in the program. This program is open to all students who are considering a career in journalism. Students interested in
participating in the program during the summer of 1965 should apply next fall.

(Editor’s note: This letter was also sent to Mississippi Governor Paul B. Johnson, Lt. Gov. Carroll Gartin, and the student
body president of Tougaloo College.)

Mr. J. M. Tubb
Supt. of Public Education
Capitol Building
Jackson, Mississippi

Dear Sir:

We, the Student Council of Davidson College, are appealing to you to exert your influence in any way possible to
see that Mississippi Senate Bill 1672 does not become law. The revocation of a charter to an accredited center of
education would serve as a dimming of the light of learning that would be felt not only in Mississippi, but
also in many other parts of our nation. Our appeal is in the name of education and of academic freedom,
for the right to an education must prevail over all boundaries of racial unrest, whether on a local, state or
national level. We realize that our relation to this problem may seem a superficial one, and yet we also realize
that we, as American college students, have a distinct interest and concern in such a situation.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,
The Davidson College Student Council
