PAGE SIX

Sackett Meets President At White House Reception

By BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

While others must content themselves on weekends with excursions to local institutions of feminine residence, Senior class president Fred Sackett embarked last Saturday for a reception at the White House. Over two hundred campus leaders attended from schools throughout the country. As the weekend guest of Colonel Robert A. Brolling, Sackett was driven to the southwest gate of the White House grounds. Accompanied by Sara Ann Porter of Sweet Briar, he entered the diplomatic reception room and made his way upstairs to the East room where the proceedings were just getting underway. Secretaries McNamara, Rusk, and Wirtz spoke briefly to the assembled students, some of whom, including the Davidson representative, had to stand. President Johnson concluded the presentation of speakers and then departed for the Blue Room.

RECEPTION IN BLUE ROOM

President and Mrs. Johnson and Lynda Bird, official hostess for the affair, formed a receiving line in the Blue Room, as students were announced individually by aides and conducted through the room. “Fred Sackett, Davidson College, North Carolina” was one of those first formally introduced to the President. “But,” said Sackett modestly, “they did the same for everybody.” Johnson spoke to the Davidson representative for some two minutes on such matters as West Virginia (Sackett’s home State) and the present administration's debt to Davidson for producing Dean Rusk.

“SAY HELLO TO GRIER!”

Earlier, Fred had spoken briefly with the Secretary of State, who hurriedly excused himself with “I must go to a State Department meeting; say hello to Grier Martin for me.” After a buffet dinner topped off with cherry tarts and washed down with a choice of ginger ale or coke, Sackett and several other students talked with Defense Secretary McNamara for about 15 minutes. “A brilliant man even in casual conversation,” noted Fred.

NSA REUNION

The Davidson representative met some old friends and acquaintances from home and from the recent NSA convention in Minneapolis. Said Sackett, “This was the most tremendous group of students I’ve had the privilege of being with.” Closing out the evening was entertainment in the East Room, the Chad Mitchell Trio, Bob Newhart, and the Stan Getz jazz quartet entertained the campus politicians. With the appearance of Newhart, the President entered the room to listen to a take-off on possibilities of the “hot line.” At the conclusion of the comedian’s routine, Johnson excused himself for the evening. When the ceremonies had concluded, the student leaders had been exposed to the opinions of top administration officials on the need for leadership among youth in the nuclear age. Everyone had their picture taken with the President—to appear later in hometown papers.

“A WONDERFUL DREAM”

The evening ended early and letdown was inevitable. In Sackett’s own words, “I walked out the front entrance onto Pennsylvania Avenue and a wonderful dream had come true.” Will Jackson was to have been Davidson’s representative but had to remain with the football team for the Saturday night game at The Citadel.

Future Teachers Must Take Exam

College seniors preparing to teach school may take the National Teacher Examinations on four different test dates each year instead of one, Educational Testing Service has announced. New dates set for the testing of prospective teachers are: Dec. 12, and March 22, July 17, and Oct. 2, 1965. The tests will be given at more than 650 locations in the 50 states, ETS said. Prospective teachers should contact the school systems in which they seek employment, or their colleges, for specific advice on which examinations to take and on which dates they should be taken. A Bulletin of Information containing registration forms, lists of test centers, and information about the examinations may be obtained from college placement officers, school personnel departments, or directly from National Teacher Examinations, Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New Jersey 08540.

ZACH LONG Posing The Possibilities Of A Beauty Queen

Long Explains Ideas In Revised Yearbook

Zach Long, 1965 Quips and Cranks editor, has announced planned format changes for this year’s annual. Singular among these changes will be the addition of a new Features Section comprised of the sponsors of all campus social organizations. This addition poses the possibility of a “Miss Quips and Cranks” and will provide increased space for informal pictures and copy in the fraternity spreads. The monotony of class sections will be broken by greater use of informal pictures throughout these sections. More page costs $50-60, and we are merely asking that those who have in the past. In a statement to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Long expressed this view, “The annual is the most permanent record turned out during the school year; we have a responsibility to the college to portray it as accurately and positively as we can.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

GUEST ROOMS ARE USED

Dormitories Reach Maximum

By HARRY CARR
Davidsonian Staff Writer

With four weeks of the first semester gone, Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, reports that there are still two students awaiting their permanent room assignments in Davidson dormitories. According to Mrs. Nicholls, however, this is a small figure in comparison to the 12 to 20 boys who are usually displaced at the start of each session. Two dropouts and the conversion of the Watts’ guest room have provided space for four who were originally without rooms. With dormitory space for 952, the enrollment stands at 1001. The exodus of 25 juniors to Europe and the increase of freshmen to 279 have created

Converse Frosh Plan Trip Here

Some 250 freshmen and upperclassmen advisers of Converse College will wheel into Davidson in a seven-bus caravan this Saturday for a mixer with Davidson freshmen. This second Converse-Davidson mixer begins when the girls arrive in time for the freshman football game, which will be followed by the varsity soccer game. After the two games there will be an open campus hour, from 5-6 p.m. during which time the young ladies from Spartanburg will have a chance to be shown about campus. A special fried-chicken dinner awaits the visitors and their Davidson escorts at 6 p.m. in the College Union. Chambers dining hall is the site of the combo party, where Sid Farrar and The Esquires will furnish the sounds until about 10:15, when the gals will start boarding their buses for home. There will be a top-notch flick going in the Union during the combo party for the more sedate. The Davidson-Converse mixer was formulated during the summer by deans of students to increase contact between Converse and Davidson.

After Vespers Open

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Brinkley
Cumming
Epes
Houchens
Jackson
Johnston
Jones
Kaylor
Lammers
McGeachy
Maloney

The Hub Now Bus Stationand Ticket Office Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M. Capacity a new pattern in the dormitories. This year also finds fewer married students as well as fewer accommodations in the town for single students. Mrs. Nicholls also stated that regulations concerning electrical appliances in student rooms will be enforced. This particularly pertains to the exclusion of televisions, air conditioners, and refrigerators. Since the wiring would not allow all students to have such items, she explained, it would not be fair for some students to have them.

Mrs. Nicholls plans to continue the room check policy, “Much the same as Mrs. Moore did.” Mrs. Nicholls explained that such a policy is necessary to maintain school property and to make sure the janitors are not overburdened. She and her assistant, Mrs. Harmon Gillespie, will check some rooms in every dorm each week.

A BELLIGERENT YOUNG GENTLEMAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1964

At the mercy of the Freshman Court

Freshman Court Keeps Sentencing Offenders

By JACK AUGUSTITUS Davidsonian Feature Writer

Freshman Court, meeting once again to see justice done and to dole out punishment, found the offending freshmen to be humbler, more repentant, and more resigned to their fate than the last time the court met. Perhaps the freshmen now come to court with pure and contrite hearts because of a growing respect for the Freshman Regulations, but it is more probable that they have discovered that punishment is handed out in relation to their attitude toward the court and not according to the offense. The “typical offender” will find himself helping with questionnaires or running errands in the infirmary if he accepts his fate without question. A more belligerent young gentleman may find himself cutting branches on the cross-country course or scraping gum off chapel seats which might have been placed there by himself the day before.

Recently, two freshmen were brought to the court for a minor violation of the regulations. Weeping large crocodile tears and begging the forgiveness of the court, they stood trial. For this action, instead of manual labor, they must, in the next two weeks, review Freshman Regulations and make a study of school spirit. When they have completed this study, they must make a report on their findings to the court. The court, not wishing only to punish, but to teach the freshmen something more, felt that this would do them more good than any amount of manual labor could ever do.

The contest for the Joe Jones Award continues with Jesse Sims still holding the lead and Ed Peel in second place. Amid rumors of tar and feathers being hidden in the closets of Cannon, Watts, and East, Sims, who has already been treated to an informal shower party, continues to do his duty of seeing that the freshmen become Davidson Gentlemen. One compensation to the freshmen, however, is that Jesse turns them in with a smile.

One member of the court outlined the goal and ideals of the court by saying, “The general attitude of the court towards the responsibility given them has been to point out to the freshmen some of the positive attributes and goals of the Freshman Regulations. We feel that, besides continuing the tradition, the main goal of the Freshman Regulations is to help the freshmen realize that they have not yet become full-fledged Davidson Men. It is also to inspire in them a little of the responsibilities toward the more important regulations such as the Student Body and Honor Court Regulation.”

The day that all of the members of the court look to is the day when there will be no offenders. They feel that when this occurs their job will be done. Wishing to have the last word, however, a freshman was heard as he walked out of court after being sentenced, to mutter under his breath, “Judge not lest ye be judged.” He might well be a sincere false prophet.

Freshman Parents Day

Freshman Parents Day this year will actually, if not officially, develop into Parents Weekend. A number of activities are planned so that the parents will be informed and entertained whether they stay all weekend or just for the main program on Nov. 7. According to Dr. Richard C. Burts, Dean of Students, the program will begin Friday night, Nov. 6, with a freshman football game against Furman. Saturday’s agenda includes the traditional tours and receptions. Local ministers will probably be asked to present Parents Day sermons Sunday for those who stay over, Burts said.

The Freshman Council, which sponsors Parents Day in conjunction with the administration, has already reviewed and approved the plans. Dean Burts emphasized that admission to the ball game Friday night will be on a first-come, first-served basis. Once the 6,000 available seats are filled no one else will be allowed to enter. The Freshman Council will arrange a schedule of campus tours, dormitory visitations, and classroom visitations for Saturday morning. Individual professors will determine on the basis of available space and schedule lags if and when parents can visit their classes. A buffet luncheon will be served Saturday, followed by a program at 2 p.m. when President Grier Martin and Dean Burts will speak. The Chapel Choir will also perform. Later there will be a reception on the front campus where parents can meet the faculty members.

The drama department will present Shakespeare’s “Coriolanus” Saturday night. A nominal fee will be charged. Students who wish to do so are urged to see the play Thursday or Friday night, so that this space will be available for parents on Saturday. The school cafeteria will be open Saturday evening for meals on campus.

It costs so little to go Hertz class—includes Hertz’ Certified Service Weekend Special $6 10 cents a mile a day Friday afternoon till 6 P.M. Sunday

FRESHMEN and UPPER CLASSMEN make reservations now for HOMECOMING WEEKEND let HERTZ put you in the driver’s seat! Rent a new Chevrolet or other from Friday afternoon until 6 P.M. Sunday at this special rate. Rates include everything—insurance, gas.

In CHARLOTTE 423 N. Tryon St. 1007 BROADWAY, NEW YORK 16, N.Y.

Campus tradition—Square-ply for your casual slacks. In all the right colors and the classic neutrals. Galey & Lord from Galey and Lord—the first Fall weight Dacron polyester and cotton fabric A Division of Burlington Industries