FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE SEVEN

CAT TALES BY JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

“IT’S EASY TO CRITICIZE...”

“It is awfully easy to criticize,” noted football Coach Bill Dole Wednesday night in an evidently pointed remark at the
Open End discussion. Maybe so. But it is easier to be optimistic than to try to be objective and present
a well-reasoned opinion. I don’t want to dwell at length on this subject because it has caused enough hard feelings
already. However, the criticism referred to amounts to two statements made in last week’s newspaper. One expressed a distaste for
Davidson's new black helmets—this, of course, is an aesthetic opinion, and I don’t see why a difference in uniform taste
should cause hard feelings. The other statement related this writer’s prediction that Davidson will win three games, the most optimistic
forecast of any predicting publication. I hope, of course, that this prediction is an underestimation, but I feel the first
consideration of a journalist (and especially a forecaster) is objectivity and sincerity if his opinion is to have any value.
I said that we will probably win three games from among the contests with Mississippi College, P. C., Lafayette, and
Lehigh. Coach Dole puts these four encounters in the category of probable victories and adds VMI, Wofford, and The Citadel.
I hope he is right, but I also hope that future differences of opinion will not be a cause for
hard feelings.

NO REST FOR LEFTY

Basketball coach Lefty Driesell didn’t get to slow down much this summer—he lectured at and participated in seven basketball clinics,
varying from one day in length to two weeks. Davidson’s two-time Southern Conference Coach of the Year lectured at two
coaching clinics—the Stetson College Clinic in Daytona Beach and the Adelphi College Clinic in Garden City, Long Island. The Adelphi
clinic is probably the best in the East and also included George Ireland of Chicago Loyola and Dave Strack of
Michigan as lecturers. Lefty also lent his knowledge to several basketball schools for players. He taught at the Pocono Mountain
Basketball School at East Stroudsburg, Pa., the Lynchburg (Va.) Basketball School, and conducted, with the aid of Davidson freshman coach
Terry Holland, a school of his own at Newport News. Holland and Wildcat aces Dick Snyder and Barry St. Clair
joined Lefty as instructors at the Campbell College Basketball School at Buie’s Creek. And Lefty isn’t through yet—he journeys to
Durham, October 31, to instruct at another coaches clinic.

THE ALSO-RANS

A group of fair-weather freshmen discuss their chances.

Cake Race Victors Tie

The annual Freshman Cake Race descended on Davidson like the beginning of autumn Monday afternoon at four o’clock. The sound
of feet pattering across the soccer field and into the woods on Davidson's “back 40” reminded one of the falling
of many leaves as the metabolism of the trees slows down. Many freshmen metabolisms were also seen to come to
a stretch uphill to Concord Road. Cross-country coach Heath Whittle, who originated the Cake Race at Davidson, fired the starting
gun. The freshmen were off like a herd of turtles. As they slowly faded out of sight into the woods,
the last one was seen exhibiting typical freshman exuberance, puffing contentedly on a cigarette. The embryonic Davidson gentlemen emerged into
the daylight at the bottom of the hill on Grey Road. Rather than use the gate provided, many fairly flew
over the fence. Roommates McLaughlin and Gilmour came across the finish line.

Cross-Countrymen Hold High Hopes For Good Season

Wildcat harriers, 1964 version, “ought to be the best varsity cross-country squad Davidson has had in several years,” states Coach
Heath Whittle. “However,” Whittle goes on to state, “our boys probably won't be in top shape for the first meet
because of the late opening of school this year.” Elected to lead this year are senior tri-captains John Barrow, Tom
Hefner, and Ronnie Reese. Reese was chosen last year as a member of the eight-man All-Conference cross-country team. Senior Denny
Phillips, junior Andy Little, and sophomores Robert Dean, Jesse Sims, Bob Sjogren, and Jim Wall are named by their coach
as likely contenders for varsity slots. The toughest opponents on the meet slate this year, according to Whittle, will be
Furman, VMI, and Wake Forest, all of which will be met on their home courses. In addition, the coach states
that the defending Southern Conference champion, William and Mary, and the 1963 State Cross-Country champion, North Carolina, will prove to
be “real tough opponents” in the conference and state meets. The freshman overland team, which will be competing on courses
of slightly more than two miles, is regarded by Whittle to be “a well-balanced group” with a strong chance to
do well in competition. Top men on the yearling team are Monroe Gilmour and Jim McLaughlin, both former runners for
Myers Park High School in Charlotte. In all “away” meets this year, both freshman and varsity teams will enter seven
runners, five of whom will count directly in scoring. In contests held on Davidson's 2.1 mile wooded course all team
members will compete.

FOGLEMAN CHECKS CHARGERS

Bob Bethel (front) and Bill Rule scrimmage in soccer practice. “However, when we get a few scrimmages under our belt,
this team should come around real well.” While he realizes that soccer fans will try to compare this year’s team
with the sensational squad of ’63, Coach Harry Fogleman is careful not to make such a comparison himself. “It's really
too early to say anything about the outlook this year,” stated Fogleman. With cautious optimism he added, “Serious practice started
only a few days ago and mistakes were prevalent during the team scrimmage. We have the first day jitters,” commented
Fogleman. The team now has less than a week to shape up before their opener at Belmont Abbey, Thursday.

Wildcat Gridmen Open Against Miss. College

Davidson's Wildcats play host tomorrow afternoon to Mississippi College in the inaugural Field at 2:30 p.m. Mississippi College, located in
Clinton, Miss., boasts an enrollment of 2,537 men and women. The Mississippians had a 4-2-2 record last year, but Coach
Hartwell McPhail (lifetime record at Mississippi College, 31-12-3) stated before the season that this year was a rebuilding year. So
far the

Another year and flickerball has come again. Enthusiasm is unbounded—at present thirteen teams are undefeated. Monday, things probably will change
as the 1964 flickerball season begins. It’s hard to say what to expect this year. Many players who dominated the
league last year are gone. Rick Lowery, Eddie Earle, Rick Smyre, and a dozen or so more have now graduated.
But new faces will replace these old ones. New faces and perhaps, new teams. Although hurt by graduation, the Kappa
Sigs still are very strong: Buddy DuBose, at tailback was on last year's All-IMAC flickerball team. Fast, strong, big, tall,
experienced, and confident—what else do they need to repeat as champs? One of the biggest questions this year is who
will tailback the KA’s. On the answer to this question hinges the hopes of last year’s number two team. With
end Sam Grimes to catch passes, all the KA’s need is someone to throw them. Experience makes the Phi Gams
look tough for next year. Little was lost from last year's third best team. Mackey McClellan at tailback spearheads what
will probably be a strong attack. The Sigma Chis are dark horses this year. Good speed in freshman Rick Mildner
could make the boys of the White Cross hard to stop. Tailback Ronnie Ayers leads a steady, balanced offense. The
prayers of Phi Delta Theta rest with Phil Squier, one of two returning All-IMAChand-in-hand. Third place went to John Hunter,
followed by Barry Bishop and Bobby Myers. The last man to be seen running was Paul Brown, who followed the
winners by several minutes. Paul said that he was glad he finished the race. He stated, “It was a good
race. I just held off on my kick a little too long.” Mike Coltrane and Gus Kaufman walked across the
line about five minutes after Brown. Kaufman's statement, “I thought it was farther than this,” sufficed for both men. Some
time after Coltrane and Kaufman, Dickie Dickens appeared, winning the distinction of being the last member of the class of
'68 to actually finish the race. Dickens, in a tremendous display of modesty, refused to give his name. However, an
informed spectator supplied the name of the quiet hero, thus enabling THE DAVIDSONIAN to record this important fact for posterity.

Happy Jack Lingle leads the defense, which could be surprising. But much Phi Delt hope, perhaps too much, lies with
new blood. If talking meant winning, the Betas, led by Albert James, would be a shoo-in for first, but talk
is cheap. Jack Sherrill tailbacks the Betas this year. Mac Otts is a returning member of the second team All-IMAC
flickerball squad. Speed, high hopes, and a few outstanding players will make this year’s team another strong one. An experienced
team of mainly juniors makes the ATO’s optimistic. Dave Hardeman tailbacks a team that may be one of this year’s
real surprises. With Rufus Adair as center or guard, the Taus’ front line could make them hard to beat. New
faces and a new attack might make the Pikas one of the biggest spoilers this year. Bob O'Kelly is one
of the league’s top players—at any position. Pika could upset some far stronger rivals.

The SAE’s must speed tailback, George Brewer, carry the team at first this year. The freshmen also figure to be
important in the “E” attack. Because of the importance of the inexperienced in their attack, Minerva’s Men will start. But
all of this could develop. The Independents are unorganized as usual. But Dave Johnson, another repeater from last year’s second
team All-IMAC flickerball squad, backs a team that can and will be trouble. When all the Indies show up, Johnson
will lead a probably lowly team into a dangerous group. But at part strength???

New Depth, Speed, Stars Mark 1964 Flickerball South performers Jan Brakel and Glenn Hanes will be back to co-captain the
‘Cats through the '64 season. Brakel will be switched from his usual halfback position to the center-forward slot where he
will lead the offensive attack. Hanes will head the defense at left fullback. The Sigma Nus pulled off some real
surprises last year, and this year they are better. Rick Pfitzner, the tailback, has high hopes for his team—virtually the
same one that last year picked up steam at the end of the season. Richardson Scholars Pederson and Fred Juniors
Yen year could be starters and will certainly add depth and experience to the squad. A lot will depend on
the sophomores. “We're loaded with sophomores and if they can come through for us, we'll be all right,” says Coach.

Sophomore goalies John Barnhardt and Kem Anderson are both talented performers and will see plenty of action in front of
the goal. Jerry Kriebel will probably start at halfback. Other sophomores who may break into the lineup are George Brown,
Bob Rhea, and George Nzongola. Gone from last year’s team are high scorers Fred Schoen, Abbot Whitney, Bob Bethel, and
Kurt Ehlers.

The Choctaws have had two creditable showings. Two weeks ago they lost a squeaker to Furman 13-10, but last week
they rebounded with a resounding 40-6 victory over the University of Mexico. Roger Thrift, Mississippi College coach who scouted their
two games, reports these players to watch: quarterback Ed Nixon, a roll-out passer and good runner; halfback Jerry Hale, their
best running back; fullback Fred Wamock, who started against Furman; and guard Parker Dykes, their best lineman. Last week against
Mexico, the Choctaws alternated three complete units, plus two defensive backfield specialists. Coach Thrift noted, “They will match us pretty
evenly in weight. Perhaps we will have a slight advantage, but they are extremely fast and move quickly. Their passing
and running games are about equal.”

As for the Wildcats, Pat Fisher and Phil Hightower will see action, while only Steve Davidson, whose football career was
prematurely ended because of a knee injury, and reserve quarterback Jimmy Poole, out with a broken finger, will be missing
from the lineup. Hightower, 6’ 3” and 230 pounds, joined the team last week after a year's absence and will
play defensive end. Fullback Fisher has recovered from his broken wrist obtained three weeks ago. Coach Bill Dole announced that
center Will Jackson and tackle Bruce Dalton will be the same tomorrow, and also commented about the upcoming game, “Mississippi
College has a fast team; and they have been helped by several junior college transfers. The only real advantage they
have is the game experience they received against Furman and Mexico.”

Classic poplin raincoat: 65% “Dacron” polyester, 35% cotton. Natural-shoulder blazer: 70% “Orlon” acrylic, 30% wool. Button-down plaid sport shirt: 65%
“Dacron” polyester, 35% cotton. Slip-on moccasins: uppers of “Corfam” poromeric. Tapered stretch worsted, “Lycra” spandex. Oxford button-down: 65% “Dacron” polyester,
35% cotton. 3-button suit with vest: 55% “Dacron” polyester, 45% worsted. Slacks: 65% “Dacron” polyester, 35% cotton. Brushed, crew-neck sweater:
100% “Orlon” acrylic. Zip-front ski parka with hood: 100% Du Pont nylon.

THE YOUNG MAN IN THE KNOW: WHAT HE’S WEARING THIS FALL

Here are some of the clothes that rate with college men this fall. We know. Because we asked them. Campus
leaders from all parts of the country gave us the word at the 3rd Annual Du Pont College/Career Fashion Conference.
These clothes have more than great style. They also have the built-in neatness of Du Pont fibers. They'll stay in
great shape through lots of hard wear. And easy care will keep them in great shape. All the big styles
come with the extras of Du Pont fibers. Just make sure the label says “Dacron”, “Orlon”, “Lycra”, “Antron” nylon, Du
Pont nylon. Stop and see your favorites at SHERMAN’S, Charlotte.
