FUZZBALLERS BOUNCE CUMBERLAND COLLEGE (See Page Three)

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1964
VOL. LI
NUMBER TWENTY-ONE

Council Polls Students On Next Year's Home Court
BY HARRY CARR

Boston, Jackson Meet In Presidential Runoff
Little, Council, Frist Capture Other Posts

In today’s voting, 657 students voted out of the 920 to whom election cards were distributed. In the voting for the office of Student Body President, Ed Boston led the field polling 233 votes; he was followed by Will Jackson (192), Tommy Heffner (142), and Jim Ferguson (90).

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

At the request of the Faculty Athletic Committee, the Student Council voted last Monday night to conduct a poll of student opinion on playing a majority of the home basketball games next year in the Charlotte Coliseum. In conjunction with the poll, a block of seats would be reserved in the Coliseum for Davidson students to sit as a group. Charter buses will be available for students with no other transportation. 

To be conducted in chapel next Monday, Spratt announced that the poll will include numerous suggestions for the seating arrangement within the reserved space. Other proposals will concern the best way to handle the transportation.

NASA Official Will Speak On Man In Space Program
BY BILL FOSTER Jr.

Bart J. Slattery, of the Marshall Space Flight Center at Huntsville, Ala., will be here Thursday to discuss the United States “Man in Space” program at 9 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College Union as part of NASA Day.

In speaking of the various programs, Slattery likes to go deeper than the mere physical aspects of the projects. He likes to look ahead to the next few years and speculate on “what we will find ‘out there’ and how we stand with Russia in the space race.” To illustrate his lectures and discussions, he utilizes slides taken at Redstone and elsewhere. According to Paul Simpson, “He seems to know everything that’s going on in the field and will tell anything that’s not classified.”

Part of Sidney J. Harris in this past Wednesday’s Observer called our man in space effort “a shocking example of national irresponsibility and immaturity.” Nelson Rockefeller has characterized it as a “publicity stunt.” As Director of Public Information for the Redstone Center, Slattery should provide the campus with some lively discussion on whether the one-fifth of the national budget that we pour into space work is really of value.

Slattery, a captain in the Navy, came to his present post in 1960. Prior to that time, he served as a public relations advisor to the Navy in the Pentagon. He is also a member of the X-15 research airplane information committee for NASA’s project Mercury. Publisher of Naval Aviation News from 1954-58, he has also served as information officer for three naval installations. During World War II, he worked in Corpus Christi, Tex., with Naval Air Basic Training Command. During his sea duty, he was with the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Franklin D. Roosevelt. He was commander of Carrier Aircraft Service Unit 56 at Santa Rosa, Calif. For “heroic achievement in combat” off the coast of Honshu, Japan, he won the Bronze Star.

The presidential runoff will be held Monday from second period to 2:00 p.m. between the two leaders, Boston and Jackson. The race for Vice-President was also very close with Andy

Gift Fund Falls Short Of Y’s Goal

Because contributions to the Easter Gift Fund have fallen short of the $2300 goal, the YMCA is unofficially extending the period of solicitation until spring recess. The goal was expected to be surpassed, considering that the Fund collected $2800 in ‘62 and $3300 in ‘61. Jeff Wampler, Gift Fund chairman, reported that those who have contributed to date have given generously but that only a very small percentage of the student body has participated in the drive. The emphasis during the remainder of the drive will be for a small contribution by everyone rather than large amounts by a few. The money will be donated to Nevin’s Vocational Training School, thereby enabling this school to build and equip a new workshop. The school provides training in manual skills leading to partial and total self-support for those of very low intelligence.

Two Vie For Paper Editorship

Charles Dibble, from Sumter, S. C., is a managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Dibble is president of the Conservative Club and a past president of Philanthropic Literary Society. He was a Wall Street Journal scholarship winner last summer.

During the past year, reporters have labored over stories that never were set in type while ideas for other articles have lain undisturbed for lack of space in the paper. Four of this year’s issues have had six pages, and in each instance, the paper was superior to our usual issues. I am convinced that a six-page DAVIDSONIAN would be a more comprehensive and stimulating newspaper. Moreover, for THE DAVIDSONIAN to be published continuously as a six-page paper is feasible: The budget will permit adjustments. Increased revenue would come from additional advertising space provided by the two new pages, from a slight increase in the mail subscription rate, and from abolishing the traditional $350 convention trip for staff members. One of the new pages would carry general news, similar to the first and fourth pages of the present paper, while the other page would handle editorial material and sports copy on alternate weeks.

News coverage of THE DAVIDSONIAN should include, of course, all facets of campus life in an objective and thorough manner. But the interests of members of the Davidson community stretch beyond the town limits of Davidson: THE DAVIDSONIAN should provide a calendar of both forums and social functions on other campuses. The recent political insert evoked praise from a number of students, evidence that many would like to see THE DAVIDSONIAN peek out of its little Piedmont shell. An enlarged DAVIDSONIAN would facilitate an increase in commentaries on national and state as well as campus affairs. Editorially, I would encourage individual freedom coupled with individual discretion and responsibility both on the campus and in the nation. THE DAVIDSONIAN should not serve merely as the editor's sounding block: rather the editorial page through letters and articles should serve as a forum of all campus opinion. My three summers of professional experience as well as eight years on school papers would enable me to edit a DAVIDSONIAN with firm, constructive editorials, objective news stories, and entertaining and informative features.

Charles Ramberg, a managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, is from Highwood, Ill. A Dana scholar, Ramberg is an economics major and a member of Phi Eta Sigma, freshman scholastic honorary. He is assistant social chairman of Sigma Nu.

As a candidate for DAVIDSONIAN editor, I offer both a program and an attitude to make the paper a more respected editorial voice. Admittedly, the first function of a newspaper is to supply news. I have no complaint with the present DAVIDSONIAN's fulfillment of that role. I will do my best to continue providing readers with the fruits of responsible investigative reporting as well as the basic news all expect.

A newspaper's second function is to be a responsible editorial voice. In that role, THE DAVIDSONIAN has failed to live up to its potential under recent editors. Under the present system, editors speak on many subjects, but seldom persist with one long enough to effectively shape opinions or stimulate action by student groups. This year’s best example of the current haphazard approach to editorial policy was the campaign to improve the library that burst into full bloom in the Nov. 15 DAVIDSONIAN and wilted after the Nov. 22 issue.

My program to make THE DAVIDSONIAN more respected editorially is to establish goals which would be pursued with a diligence now lacking. Such a program would include ample news coverage of problems and topics involved as well as editorial comment. When editorial campaigns begin to be pursued methodically and coherently, adjusting to the disclosureof new facts, then readers may begin to be convinced that THE DAVIDSONIAN is truly a responsible editorial voice at Davidson College. The attitude I would bring to the editor’s chair is significantly different from that of the other candidate. The voter is confronted with the clear alternatives of a political liberal and a conservative. I believe this factor should be considered for at least one major reason. Continued intensified efforts by the local civil rights committee will without doubt merit editorial comment. My opponent stood in the forefront of opposition to the rights march as author of the anti-march petition. My views are directly opposed to his. If elected editor, I would bring a liberal attitude to THE DAVIDSONIAN and an intensive program to make it a stronger editorial voice.

Little gained 356 votes and the office of First Vice-President. Bill Council was elected Second Vice-President (348) and David Meschan closely followed with 310 votes.

Tom Frist, a sophomore, won a landslide victory for the office of Student Council Secretary-Treasurer. Frist polled 348 votes to 123 for Stan Brown and 122 for Ron Snow. Honor Court voting in the Class of ‘65 was fairly evenly distributed with Steve Ramsburgh polling 72 votes, Merry Hardy 46, and Steve Davidson 42. These three candidates will have a runoff vote Monday for the two vacant places. Other candidates polling votes were David Grant (41), Mike Bisard (40), Arthur Ross (34), and Bill Haile (27). Honor Court voting in the Class of ‘66 was also close with John Burks (116) and Eric Nichols (109) winning positions over Decker Faw (104). There will be a run-off vote for the two positions on the Honor Court open to members of the Class of ‘67. Today's voting was led by Stephen Humphrey with 82 votes, Lloyd Davidson with 67 votes, and Alva Whitehead with 50. These three candidates will be in Monday's runoff balloting. Other candidates polling Honor Court votes in the freshman class were: Charles Edwards (43), Tom Dews (38), Peter van Dorsten (34), Jim Shackelford (32), George Ludwig (23).

Andy Little, the newly-elected First Vice-President, is a rising junior from Raleigh, and a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity. He is also on the track and cross country teams. Bill Council, Second Vice-President, is also a rising junior, a member of the tennis team and Phi Delta Theta. Council hails from Cary, N.C. With the 70% voting turnout, one of the highest ever, the election committee was elated. Walt MacDonald, chairman of the committee, said Friday afternoon, “If such active voting continues, this promises to be one of the most successful elections ever held on campus.”

(Photo by Chatterjee)

WET BUT UNDAUNTED, THEY MARCH THROUGH CHARLOTTE

From 9 schools, the marchers go the first mile

Marchers Meet Rain, Train, But Carry Out Rights Walk

The drenching rain poured down on Joe Howell and the civil rights marchers as they paraded through Charlotte’s streets Saturday. For fifteen frenzied minutes, a train, appropriately on the Southern Railroad, divided the marchers, causing much more wetness and Howell much more worry. But while the train was an annoyance, the rain was an impediment to hecklers who might have found it interesting sport to hinder a demonstration on behalf of civil rights. The organizers of the march feel that it was—despite the train, rain, and pressure the week before to call it off—a success. And yet they did not get the national publicity they desired. Both Charlotte officials and marchers agree that the walk may have little effect on the city's race relations. What then did last Saturday's uneventful march by nearly 700 college students and other civil rights proponents accomplish? In the words of two of the march's organizers, it helped build “a sense of community and belonging for those who participated." “It was the closest thing to a religious experience I've ever had," commented one of the Davidson professors. Both Joe Howell, the Davidson senior who organized the march that attracted delegates from nine colleges, and Dr. Philip B. Secor, a political science professor who helped plan the walk, agreed this week that the greatest impact will be on those whose cheers shook the walls of Biddle Hall on the Johnson C. Smith University campus and who trudged the soaking mile to the Main Post Office on West Trade Street. “The deepest and most important part of the march was the terrific amount of understanding that was gained,” Howell commented. “Those who walked are different people as a result of having committed themselves this time. Next time it will be easier.”

Apprehensive Friday night before the march, Howell was grinning broadly Saturday afternoon as Biddle Hall's 450-seat auditorium jammed to overflowing. “This is great!” he exulted. A few minutes later, the students gave Howell a noisy, spontaneous standing ovation for what Professor Ernest F. Patterson afterwards termed his “courage in the face of almost insurmountable obstacles.” Davidson, Johnson C. Smith, Livingstone, Lenoir Rhyne, Catawba, Belmont Abbey, Queens, Pfeiffer, and Charlotte College students participated. They brought petitions signed by 8,300 urging President Lyndon Johnson to press for enactment of the civil rights bill now before the Senate. In the Davidson contingent were about 15 Negroes from the community, eight professors, and over 75 students including nearly all the Richardson Scholars. Demonstrating professors were Secor, Max E. Polley, E. F. Patterson, W. Brown Patterson, J. V. Applewhite, Norman Johnson, W. H. Welsh, and John D. Kelton. Professor W. G. Workman, who said last week he would march, changed his mind when he learned of the position of the Charlotte mayor, who opposed a march but favored a rally. Davidson student and faculty signatures on the petition numbered 338, nearly 100 more than the anti-march petition picked up on the campus. Secor called the walk to the post office to mail the petitions “a Southern middle-class walk,” with nearly all the placard-carrying marchers well-dressed and well-behaved. “In this way, it was really marked by the Davidson character,” Secor observed. About the only evidences a march of nearly 700 spirited civil rights supporters was under way were the bobbing line of black umbrellas, occasional strains of “We Shall Overcome” heard above the noise of traffic on busy Trade Street, and the ubiquitous Charlotte Police squad cars, their cherry-tops flashing. After the walk, the marchers had plenty of praise for the quiet, efficient way the police kept the marchers moving with minimum interference with downtown traffic. They had less praise for the scanty coverage the Charlotte news media gave the demonstration. “I would suspect there was some desire to get the thing over with as quickly and as quietly as possible,” Secor commented. Monday afternoon one of the obstacles to the march, Charlotte mayor Stanford Brookshire, breathed a sigh of relief that there was no violence. “My only concern was in the action of somebody throwing brickbats, and that didn’t happen,” he said. Dr. John R. Cunningham, Davidson president-emeritus and head of the Mayor's Community Relations Committee in Charlotte, seconded Brookshire's statement and added that he thought the march “didn't make any difference one way or the other on Charlotte race relations.” Jay Federman, who managed the march, estimated that Brookshire’s pre-march public statements about potential violence cost the march the participation of “at least 300 students from white and Negro high schools in the area.” For at least one marcher, the march was a long-awaited event: One white-haired, white marcher told Howell, “I've been waiting 18 years for something like this and now you've made my life complete.” For another demonstrator, the walk was as exhausting as satisfying. Said Secor, “I don't care if I don't hear about civil rights for the next six weeks.”

Dr. William Mueller Coming For Y Forum

BY BRITT SNIDER

Dr. William R. Mueller, chairman of the English department of Goucher College in Baltimore, Md., will speak on “The Arts as a Challenge to the Christian Faith” on Monday as the sixth lecturer in the current series of YMCA forums on contemporary religious challenges. The schedule for Dr. Mueller will be identical to those of the preceding speakers. He will first address the student body at the Monday morning chapel. This will be followed by a coffee hour and an informal discussion at 3 p.m. in the Morrison Room. The forum will conclude that evening with an address by Dr. Mueller at 8:15 in the Morrison Room. Prior to assuming his duties at Goucher, Mueller served on the faculties of the United States Naval Academy, Williams College, Santa Barbara College, and the Woman's College of UNC. He also has been recipient of several fellowships, including a Ford Foundation Fellowship in 1953 and a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1958. Also, he has written numerous essays, articles, and reviews for such publications as The Christian Century, the Christian Scholar, Journal of English Literary History, Social Forces, College English, and Johns Hopkins Magazine. He has had published five books, including The Prophetic Voice in Modern Fiction, John Donne: Preacher, and Spenser's Critics: Changing Currents in Literary Taste. Mueller holds his AB degree from Princeton University, his master's degree from Harvard University and Union Theological Seminary, and his doctor's degree from Harvard University. His visit will mark the sixth in the series of eight scheduled forums. Dr. Will Herberg, speaking on secularization, will follow on April 21, and the series will conclude on April 30 with Dr. Ernest Lefever on politics.