PAGE TWO The Davidsonian

"THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY"

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Of Pledges

This week a letter from the Dean of Students Office was sent to the pledge trainers of each fraternity. This letter, after dealing with the theory of pledge training in general, reminded the pledge trainers of the faculty regulations covering the pledge programs — and then informed the pledge trainers that they would be required by the Dean of Students’ Office to take a pledge to be honor-bound, that “these regulations have been fulfilled in every instance.” This letter was sent out over the signature of Robert G. Jones, the assistant dean of students.

The assistant dean of students is relatively new to the campus as an administrator. We feel that he is doing a commendable job in handling administration-student-body relationships to the satisfaction of both parties. Thus we are reluctant to lay the blame for this letter at his feet — especially because this misuse of the honor pledge to enforce student body regulations is indicative of an attitude, not of an individual.

The Student Body Constitution separates the Honor System and the Student Body Regulations and their respective enforcements. It is this differentiation with which we are concerned. The concept of honor is accepted without question — that is, it is assumed necessary and desirable by students, despite criticisms of its enforcement. There is a voluntary assent by students to the concept of honor. It is adhered to and enforced by the Davidson student body. The strength of the Honor System lies here: consequently the collective enforcement by the student body.

The Student Body Regulations are different in nature from the Honor System. They reflect, not so much student attitudes on conduct, but the ideas of the college on how a student should conduct himself. The activities covered by the Student Body Regulations are not equal in gravity. Nor can they be enforced equally or equitably. Note the wide variety of activities dealt with in the regulations: conduct unbecoming a gentleman, drinking, gambling, keeping firearms in dorms, hazing, making unnecessary noise in dorms, damaging college property.

Preference for student — rather than faculty — enforcement prompted the insertion of many of these regulations into the Student Body Constitution. Defacing of property is certainly accepted as an evil to be prevented. Prohibition of firearms is a safety provision. Making unnecessary noise in the dorms or disturbing studying conditions may not be the best practice, but these are certainly not equitable with defacing and damaging of property. Hazing is a practice deemed unwise — but it is certainly not comparable to making unnecessary noise in the dorms.

All these activities covered in the Student Body Regulations may or may not be deemed necessary by the college administration for the running of this institution. The point is that not all of these regulations are respected or enforced regularly by many of the students in the student body. This is natural enough, these rules are not reflections of student body will but of what the college wants. This is most clearly reflected in the enforcement of both the Honor System and the Student Body Regulations. While the Honor System is customarily enforced fairly and swiftly and without dissension, the conduct regulations are enforced ambiguously, sporadically, and haphazardly by the few students honor-bound to do so. That only a few students are honor-bound to report these violations in the first place while the rest are only duty-bound is a tacit admission of three factors: 1) these regulations are not accepted by many students, 2) these regulations are complied with by considerably less than a majority of the students; and 3) these regulations are almost impossible to enforce.

The situation now is that all students are honor-bound to report Honor System violations and some students are honor-bound to report violations of Student Body Regulations. The nature of the regulations makes them almost impossible to enforce: reflected in that most students are “exempt” from having to report them. We believe the students should handle the Honor System. Student conduct regulations, however, should be made equitable, and enforced by either all the students or none of the students.

This recent letter from the Office of the Dean of Students illustrates yet another attempt to enforce faculty and student rules of conduct with the concept of honor used to support the Honor System. The point is this: both the faculty and the administration realize the effectiveness of these regulations of conduct depends upon their acceptance and enforcement by the students. These regulations of conduct are neither accepted nor enforced consistently by most students for the simple reason that most students tend to view these regulations not as expressions of their own ideas, voluntarily accepted, but rather as decrees from the college forced upon them. And it is this viewpoint that prompts the college to take the heart of the Honor System — its voluntary enforcement based on one’s honor — and attempt to apply it to these matters of far lesser importance.

Consequently, the Dean of Students Office is arbitrarily picking out certain persons to be honor-bound to enforce these far lesser matters of student conduct, while allowing the rest of the student body to be “exempt” from this enforcement. We feel that compelling certain persons, whether they be either Honor Court or Student Council members or fraternity presidents or pledge trainers, to be honor-bound to enforce any regulations of conduct, is wrong. We feel that it is a misuse of a valued possession, a workable honor system. If the college feels that these regulations are necessary for it to control the individual students, let them stipulate these regulations as such. If these regulations and their enforcement are clearly the will and the desire of the student body, let us have all the students enforce them, rather than a chosen few. In any event, let us stop confusing violations of honor and violations of conduct regulations. The pledge of honor is intended for situations involving honor and not for enforcing matters of far less consequence. Let us at least be consistent.

MLH

Associate Editors
Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth
Tim Kimrey

Managing Editors
John Todd
Mike Harrington

News Editor
Rufus Adair

Feature Editor
Bob Strauser

Sports Editor
Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor
Bill Briggs

Copy Editor
Allen Webb

Photographers
Sam Smith
Tom Thel

Cartoonists
Jack Lingle
Rufus Hallmark
John Compton

Asst. Business Mng.
Irvine Welling

Advertising Manager
Ned Kelly

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Contributors this week:
Mike Hunter, Greg Haynes, Bill Aitken, Jack Augustitus, Harry Carr, Bob Holladay, Bert Whisenant, Joe Beard, Marc Copelan, Walt Drake, Ted Glusman, Billy Farr, Baily, David Coffey, Ed Maywell, Ross Cornwell, Heyward Carter, Bo Perry, Tim Rothermel, Mike Bates, Bob Vance and Joe Ford.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

A ‘Democratic Landslide’ Forecast For The Northeast

By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Better-than-even bets are being made by the professional gamblers that Lyndon Baines Johnson will carry every state in the industrial Northeast. Even the traditionally Republican states of Maine, Vermont, and New Hampshire are threatened by a Democratic landslide. There is considerable fear in GOP ranks and high hopes in the Democratic party workers that the expected Johnson tidal wave of votes will wash out at least two Republican Senators and a whole host of GOP congressmen.

The Republican Party in the Northeast seems to be stricken with acute schizophrenia, the lower part of the ticket against the upper part as well as the Demos — a condition more common to Southern Democrats. The reluctance of most Republican candidates for major offices to mention the Goldwater-Miller combination has more Democrats running against the GOP Presidential candidate than the local Republican hopefuls. Even Miller, Vice-Presidential candidate from New York, seems to be regarded as a liability to the Republican cause.

The expected “backlash” of white Democrats has failed to materialize to any great extent thus far, but a “front-lash” of Republican voters going to Johnson, possibly 15% of the registered Republicans, has GOP leaders fearful for a collapse of the party in some states. Even if the “backlash” issue runs deeper than the polls show, even if many persons are secretly planning to vote for the Arizona Senator, Johnson still looks like a sure winner in most Northeastern states.

DELAWARE: Despite rural feelings for Goldwater, the vote of heavily-urbanized New Castle County plus normal Democratic support put Johnson across.

MARYLAND: Here is a state where the white backlash should be highest. But even here the race is said to be about even, possibly with Johnson holding a slight edge.

PENNSYLVANIA: Governor Scranton isn't breaking his neck for the national ticket; consequently no one else is either. Despite a divided Democratic Party after a bitter Senatorial primary and the apparent collapse of the Philadelphia machine, not only does Johnson look far ahead but also GOP Senator Hugh Scott is in real trouble from a candidate he ordinarily would have crushed.

NEW YORK:Once again a Republican Governor has little enthusiasm and a GOP Senator faces a strong challenge. Goldwater loses more of what little support he had each day. Right now both Johnson and Keating should be winners.

NEW JERSEY: This industrial state goes overwhelmingly for the Democratic ticket.

NEW HAMPSHIRE: Normally Republican, this state goes Democratic by default.

VERMONT: The race is even.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1964

FROM THE BACK OF THE BUS

Water Victory Seen Threat To Freedom

By CHARLES RAMBERG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“I am unalterably opposed to discrimination or segregation on the basis of race, color, or creed...” (Speech to U.S. Senate, June 18, 1964)

Those are the words of a man who could be catapulted into the White House by a surge of race hate.

“(W)e pledge: ... full implementation and faithful execution of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and all other civil rights statutes, to assure equal rights and opportunities guaranteed by the Constitution to every citizen; ...” (1964 Republican Platform)

That is the platform of a party that in this election year has become a rallying point for racists. Seems incongruous, doesn’t it?

At first glance, there seems little doubt that Senator Goldwater believes in human rights. In this area the record seems clear, if only because it is based on his deeds and not on his words. As a member of the Phoenix City Council, Goldwater voted to desegregate a restaurant at Sky Harbor Airport. As chief of staff in the Arizona Air National Guard, he ordered an end to segregation in the guard in 1952. (President Truman had banned segregation in the U.S. armed forces in 1948.) Barry Goldwater donated $400 to Arizona NAACP chapters in the early 1950s. He was once a member of both the Tucson and Phoenix chapters. Before they were sold, the Goldwater family department stores hired Negroes, including some in supervisory positions.

MASSACHUSETTS: The home state of the late John F. Kennedy goes to Johnson by an overwhelming margin. The GOP cause is absolutely dead for a while in this state.

RHODE ISLAND: No contest. Johnson all the way.

CONNECTICUT: Johnson should take everything.

MAINE: Only here do the Republicans have a decent chance to carry a Northeastern state, but Lyndon Johnson might be able to break an ancient tradition and carry Maine. Still, the race looks even.

Totals for the Northeast:
GOLDWATER: 6 states with 0 electoral votes.
JOHNSON: 8 states with 128 electoral votes.
EVEN: 2 states with 14 electoral votes.

“Prexy Campaign Analyzed” ... by Lingle

“BAKER-TAKER”—WARMONGER! (The Year Of The Clear-Cut Choice)

Angry Frosh Sounds Off On Kimrey’s 'Good Guys’

In reference to Associate Editor Kimrey’s opinion that the present trend of having a brighter freshman class each year is undesirable, I would like to express my belief that he is wrong. In the college's “Statement of Purpose,” one of the most important goals is to ‘seek men of the highest caliber for the student body.” I agree wholeheartedly: Davidson should continue its present policy of seeking the most outstanding and intelligent students available. May the day never come when Mr. White must worry about filling a minimum quota of Mr. Kimrey’s “good guys” and “honor society rejects” and when he must take an applicant aside and tactfully explain that he is just a little bit too intelligent for Davidson.

In his column, Mr. Kimrey seems to support admitting some downright average students in order to pad the academic lower half of the class; these students were satisfied with mediocrity in high school and therefore, should be quite pleased to fill the same role at Davidson. Of course, we'll let in a few top students, but they'll be able to continue to run circles around their classmates and everyone will be happy (and isn’t this the basic goal of college life, to make everyone happy, happy, happy?)

I disagree strongly, for one of the most desirable incentives any educational institution can use is the challenge. Academic competition is a terrific preparation for life, for through it a person learns to control himself and to channel his efforts in his chosen direction. The role of this college must not be to prepare safe, little “good guys” who have never experienced life, who have never really thrown themselves into something bigger than themselves (Christianity?), and who will fill an insignificant function in life, leaving this world without having changed it in the least. The Office of Admissions must continue its search for excellence in prospective students.

Mike Bates
Davidson College

Peed

Dear Editor:

As a fun-loving Democrat, I wish to thank the Great Issues Program and the Young Republicans Club for making Monday's Assembly speaker available. My hope is that the Democrats may find someone as eloquent in defense of Mother, God, and the Constitution, that equal time may be rendered. But, in a larger sense (Where have I heard that before?), my appreciation must go to the Republican National Convention, for without its prudent choice, fun-loving Democrats and Psychology majors would have to look elsewhere for kicks.

Charles Peed Jr.
Davidson College

—Renewal —New Subscription

The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N.C.

—Enclose Four Dollars —Bill Me Later at $4.50

Democrats: How could anyone confuse the Republican nominee with some of his rabidly racist Southern support? Goldwater cannot fairly be labeled a racist. Yet he is a potential cobra by comparison with earthworms like Alabama Gov. Wallace and Mississippi Gov. Johnson. This stems from the fact that Barry Goldwater is at best a halfhearted friend of human rights. Support for this conclusion is not hard to find. At the heart of the matter is his interpretation of the U.S. Constitution. He has read the constitution in such a way that he finds it impossible to mix his moral beliefs with politics on the national level. States' rights keep getting in the way. Goldwater apparently believes in equal rights, but he can see no way to make what is obviously morally right the law of the land. As a result, all his fine talk about “freedom” is reduced to a hollow sham.

In the United States this election year and for the foreseeable future, the issue of freedom centers on human rights. Specifically, it is whether a tenth of the population can be relegated to a second-class citizenship. The Negro Revolution now underway has made significant progress since World War II. If progress is to continue, national leaders are needed who recognize the necessity to bring the power of the U.S. government to bear in the struggle. Mere abstract commitment to equality is not enough. Senator Goldwater, then, threatens the momentum of the rights movement. This fact has not been lost on the enemies of human rights. It is no coincidence that the traditional bastion of segregation, the South, is leaning closer to the Republican Party than it has since Reconstruction. It was no coincidence that Gov. Wallace withdrew from the presidential race after the Goldwater nomination, and no coincidence that Mississippi Gov. Paul Johnson has given his blessings to an anti-Democrat protest vote. How else can we explain why the white anti-civil rights “backlash” vote will go to the party of Abraham Lincoln?

The racists know that the GOP is no longer the party that in its 1960 platform pledged “... the full use of the power, resources and leadership of the federal government to eliminate discrimination based on race, color, religion or national origin.” They know what the Republican nominee had to say about the 1964 Civil Rights Act shortly before he voted against it: “To give genuine effect to the prohibitions of this bill will require the creation of a Federal police force of mammoth proportions. It also bids fair to result in the development of an ‘informer’ psychology in great areas of our national life ... These, the Federal police force and an ‘informer’ psychology, are the hallmarks of the Police state in the destruction of a free society,” he said.

The racists don't expect Goldwater to swallow his words about “freedom” in order to give “genuine effect” to the Civil Rights Act. And neither do we. We and they are thinking of the Barry Goldwater who for nearly a decade after the 1954 Supreme Court decision (Brown v. Board of Education) on public school segregation delighted his followers by telling them that the decision was unconstitutional.

We and they have found little reason in this campaign to think Barry Goldwater would, if elected, use the powers of the presidency to bring justice to race relations. Rather than remind us of his strong commitment to human rights, he has spent the summer talking about violence in the streets. Now the Republicans are preparing to reap their harvest of hate in the “backlash” vote less than a month from now.

One commentator has said that Barry Goldwater would have a sympathetic ear to Negro pleas. That may be so, but we know what the reply would be: “My hands are tied.”

This newspaper received a letter last week in answer to our last column. If THE DAVIDSONIAN had enough funds, we would use red ink to emphasize the major points (e.g., that for the Kingmakers to manipulate, there must be someone able to be manipulated). This is not possible, so we must ask detractors to read us more carefully.