PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1964

Money For Renovating Union Available -- Currie

Business Manager Robert A. Currie recently announced an estimated $184,000 plan to renovate the downstairs of the College Union. Included
are funds to completely air-condition the Union building. The new plan makes use of the area formerly used as the
student store and games room. Included are the following changes:

The kitchen of the cafeteria will be expanded, and new facilities and equipment will be purchased to make the preparation
of food easier and more sanitary. The current dining area will become a permanent one which will be used only
during meal times. New furniture will be purchased for this area, and it will be closed off so that it
may be kept clean when meals are not being served.

The snack bar will be relocated in roughly the spot where the serving line is now located. The location of
the old snack bar will become the new serving line. Part of the space now vacant downstairs will be used
for the snack bar dining area. In other words, the snack bar and the cafeteria will be separated in their
operation. The remainder of the space downstairs will be utilized as private dining rooms. The dining rooms will be located
in one large room which can be divided into four. In addition, there will be one permanent private dining area
made available. The private dining rooms can also be used as meeting rooms to take pressure off the upstairs of
the Union.

Remodeling would begin just as soon as all contracts are let. He hopes that the work can begin this spring.
“We are now working on our kitchen in Chambers," Currie reported. "Once we get all our contracts let, we will
move over to the Chambers dining room for the rest of the semester and through the summer.”

Health Officer Sees Slater As Better In Union Cleanup

TOM LOFLIN

After two visits from Health Inspector Noah Walters last week, the employees of Slater Food Service have taken definite steps
to clean up the college’s cafeteria. On Wednesday, cafeteria manager H. R. Bryson said that he thought his kitchen was
once again worthy of an “A” rating from the inspector.

Walters first inspected the kitchen on Monday of last week, and at that time removed the old rating notice, an
“A.” He told THE DAVIDSONIAN the following Wednesday that he would return Friday to re-inspect the kitchen for a new
grade. Walters did return last Friday, but he changed his mind about inspecting the kitchen. Instead, he had a talk
with the kitchen help and explained to them the results of his first inspection and what he would look for
on his next one. He also went over plans for the renovation of the downstairs area of the Union with
Bryson and Business Manager Robert A. Currie. Walters is scheduled to return the latter part of this week to make
his re-inspection.

“When they have brought that kitchen up to standard, I intend to give them their rating back,” Walters said before
leaving campus last week. “I plan to come back pretty often to look at the place, and I intend to
get it clean even if I have to live there.”

Students may see for themselves whether or not the college’s cafeteria is still underachieving in the area of cleanliness by
looking for the rating. Until there is a new one posted, the college will not have attained an acceptable health
standard in its eating facilities.

When Walters was here last Friday, he first asked the kitchen employees how many of them had read the state's
health code for eating establishments. Not one of them raised his hand.

In agreeing with a DAVIDSONIAN article printed three days before his inspection of the kitchen, Walters felt that the presence
of roaches is Slater’s worst problem. He also agreed with the article in his comment on the floors: “I can't
overlook the fact that the cracks and crevices in your floors are not clean. I know that cracks in floors
are hard to clean, but I cannot allow that to be an excuse for filth.”

Walters said that he noticed quite a few rat droppings outside the kitchen near the garbage area. THE DAVIDSONIAN reported
evidence two weeks ago that rats have also been inside the kitchen. Walters reported that he had found Slater had
been using newspapers to cover storage shelves. “There should not be newspapers in the kitchen,” Walters said. “Paper is good
roach feed.”

The college has now taken steps to do away with the roaches and rats. Rodent-feeding stations have been set up
all around the campus to kill rats, and a pest control company now comes once a week to spray the
kitchen in an attempt to control roaches.

Lest fraternity men feel smug in the knowledge that they do not have to eat Slater meals, Walters pointed out
that the milk shaker has not been cleaned properly in the past. This machine is one of the hardest workers
at the snack bar. Walters said that during his inspection he noticed one of the workers fixing salads by taking
fruit out of cans with her hands. He also cited the facts that he found cigarette burns on tables in
the kitchen even though it is illegal to smoke where food is prepared and that the toilets used by the
help were not cleaned sufficiently.

Walters, however, at the end of his talk Friday, complimented the workers on the improvement that they had made in
cleaning the kitchen. “The places I glanced at today look good,” he said. “There are tremendous improvements already.”

Before he left, Currie told Walters, “One thing we don't believe in putting off is sanitation. At no time have
we ever let what I call expense money interfere with sanitation. We've never had a health report that we did
not get on immediately to clean things up.”

Currie never did say why, if the college is so concerned about cleanliness, it has been necessary to wait for
health reports before taking action to keep the kitchen clean.

Applicants Increase; 'Cats Not To Blame

BY CHARLES EDWARDS

“Even though we have received 25 percent more applications than we had by this time last year, I really couldn’t
say that I think that much of the increase is due to our success in basketball,” stated Associate Director of
Admissions H. Edmunds White. “Of course, a good season helps to bring Davidson to the attention of those who might
have never heard of it before; but no one thing has any great effect on the number of applications. Most
other colleges are experiencing the same rise in applicants, due to the post-war baby boom.”

The Admissions Committee, composed of White, Admissions Director F. W. Hengeveld, Dean of Students Richard C. Bits, and Professors J.
H. Ostwalt, R. B. Jackson, and H. A. Bryan, is now preparing to send out acceptance letters to a large
percentage of the more than 800 high school seniors who have applied this year. Twenty-five percent of these have already
been accepted under the Early Decision Plan.

Second Atheist Coming For Y’s Forum Series

BY BRITT SNIDER

The fourth speaker in the YMCA series of “Challenges to the Christian Faith,” Dr. Jose Barchilon, an atheist and an
associate professor at Yeshiva University in New York City, will appear for a series of addresses on Thursday, March 5.
Barchilon, Director of Education at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva, will be the second atheist brought to
campus by the Y this semester. The topic for his addresses and forum will be “Religious Implications of Psychology.”

His first address will be to the student body during chapel period, followed by a coffee hour in the Morrison
Room of the Union. At 3 p.m. a discussion will be held in the Morrison Room, with the psychology departments
of Davidson and Charlotte College and a group of Charlotte psychiatrists participating with Barchilon in a discussion of clinical problems
in psychology. The forum will conclude Thursday night with a short address by Barchilon, followed by a discussion with Rabbi
Israel J. Gerber of Temple Bethel in Charlotte and Dr. W. G. Workman, professor of psychology at Davidson. All three
men have doctorate degrees in psychology.

Barchilon since 1957 has served as associate professor and as psychiatrist at the Bronx Municipal Hospital Center in New York.
He attended medical school at the University of Toulouse, and received his MD from...Dr. Jose Barchilon
Professor, Atheist, Psychiatrist
Rochester Medical School in Rochester, N.Y. He served for five years on the psychiatric staff at Strong Memorial Hospital in
Rochester, and also spent a year as assistant professor at the University of Rochester Medical School. In a letter received
by the YMCA he explained, “I have used in teaching psychoanalysis to young physicians a fairly special technique. I try
to demonstrate for them the ways in which the unconscious of human beings manifests itself in art, plays, novels, mythology,
culture, and religion.

“To me, there is a continuity between mythology and religion which expresses an unconscious psychological need. This need is felt
as existing outside, just as we may project our guilt or any other feeling to the outside world. I will
hope to demonstrate this continuity in my talk at Davidson.”

Dr. Marcus Bloch, L-Hy.
President
Eastern Magical Society
P.O. Box 118
New York 9, N.Y.

GREGG SMITH SINGERS IN CONCERT
Here next Wednesday for Artist Series

After Vespers Open House
The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abernethy
Hogan
Partridge
Blackwell
Hopkins
Puckett
Bliss
McGavock
Secor
Clark
Martin, D.G.
Wheaton
Fogleman
Meeks
Woods
Fredericksen
Patterson, E.F.
Workman

Twenty-One Pupils Leave Davidson's Sacred Halls
BY BILL BRIGGS

To make money, to join the service, to recuperate from various sicknesses, and to seek greener pastures at other schools
are a few of the reasons that 21 students decided to part company with Davidson College for the second semester
of this school year.

Seven seniors—Steve Gramley, Joe Jones, Ben McCoy, J.L. Moore, R.O. Moss, Ted Scarboro, and J.D. Whitehead—earned enough credits and hours
to graduate and consequently took their leave of absence. Bob Dixon, another senior, quit school to go to work. He
will return this summer.

Juniors Howard Morris, Stewart Robinson, and Robert Taylor also dropped out of college this semester. Robinson and Taylor, armed with
liberal educations, transferred to schools of science, math, and farming at N.C. State and Clemson respectively.

Sophomores John Apperson and Chip Sanders are now job hunting; Merritt Blalock and Roberts (Continued From Page One) stopped under
doctor's orders; Doug Finley joined the service; and Sid Thompkins just went home. One freshman, Denny Knight, basketball center, enrolled
at Marietta College in Ohio. Special students H.F. Nance, W.A. Kimbrough, and Mrs. Douglas Houchens (wife of Davidson's art professor)
are also no longer here.

However, the traffic does not just flow from Davidson. Ten new students have entered school this semester. Actually, only two
of these are new to Davidson. D.B. Goodman and special student Mrs. Helen B. Rankin are here for the first
time. The other eight are just returning to Davidson after having left it in recent years. Sophomores George Brewer, Dan
Campbell, John Crawford, and Ed Peel, Junior Mike Payne, and Seniors Bob Gregory, Tank MacDiarmid, and David Simpson are all
back to try again. They left for various reasons—sickness, to join the service, to work, and to find “motivation.”

The Hub Now Bus Station and Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

God, the Bible; and by having fellowship with those theories, persons, and religions, which are of Satan and not of
God. But God is not a God of compromise. Truth cannot be compromised and remain truth. Salvation cannot be compromised
and remain salvation. The Holy Ghost, Holy Spirit, does not compromise. Almighty God Jesus Christ the Lord does not compromise.
People who are without Christ, having never been born again, have thus never BECOME children of Satan. And while God
is creator of all and thus all men are neighbors, God is not the Father of all and there is
no Fatherhood of all and no brotherhood of all. The sons of God and the sons of Satan are no
more brothers than God and Satan are brothers. Such people, whether members of professing churches or not, having never been
spiritually born again, have been given no faith with which they can accept His Deity, His Virgin Birth, His Bodily
Resurrection, His Ascension, His Atonement, His shed Blood being the remission for sins, or His Second Coming to this earth.

The result is that the professing visible churches and their institutions, including their colleges, are not winning the world for
Christ, but are being won over by the world for Satan. It is not strange, therefore, that CHURCHES and CHURCH
SCHOOLS are teaching evolution and socialism and denying the truth of the Holy Bible and denying the Deity of Jesus,
and even inviting Atheists and Communists to spread their poison in the minds of their members and of their students.
And such churches and church schools are in many instances discarding eternal security to be found in God the Father,
Jesus Christ the Son, and the Holy Ghost, and the Bible, the infallible Word of God; and are substituting therefore
communism, social security, integration, United Nations; while they damn patriots and sob for traitors. Such churches and such church schools
are in many instances teaching man to trust his eternal security in a One-World Church, a One-World Government, a One-World
Court, a One-World Army, a One-World Language, a One-World Mongrel Race, and a One-World Social Gospel which is a conglomeration
of all heathen religions with Christianity discarded. All these things actually are coming to pass, but they are coming to
pass under Satan, and not under God.

Gregg Smith Singers Plan Concert For Artist Series
BY BILL AITKEN

The Davidson College Artist Series will present the Gregg Smith Singers as the third program of its 1963-64 season on
Wednesday, March 4 in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. The choral ensemble, now on their third continental tour of the
United States, was formed in 1955 when Gregg Smith, a graduate teaching assistant in the music department of the University
of California, Los Angeles, gathered a group of young musicians interested in performing complex contemporary music as well as rarely-performed
music of the Renaissance. In 1958 the 25 musicians won acclaim with their performance of Schoenberg's intricate Opus 27 at
the Monday Evening Concerts. Their prestige was further heightened by a special invitation to sing at the Brussels World Fair
that same year. Since that time the singers have been invited to appear at festivals in Edinburgh, Salzburg, Darmstadt, Krefeld,
and Berlin.

The Gregg Smith Singers concert will be held in Chambers Auditorium open to the public. Tickets are now on sale.
All Davidson students will be admitted free of charge. The next and final concert of the Artist Series season will
be the Juilliard String Quartet on Tuesday, April 28.

Episcopal Layman Preaches Sunday
William Stringfellow, prominent Episcopal layman, will be the vespers speaker Sunday. Stringfellow, a partner in a New York law firm
and a frequent contributor to both legal and theological journals, is the author of Free in Obedience, chosen by Seabury
Press as the Lenten Book for 1964. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Bates College, Stringfellow studied at the London
School of Economics and received his LLB from the Harvard Law School. He represents his denomination on the Faith and
Order Commission of the World Council of Churches.

SPECIAL STUDENT RATES — 75c

AMERICA, AMERICA
Is the best American film of the year!
HOLLIS ALPERT, SATURDAY REVIEW
JUDITH CRIST, HERALD TRIBUNE

Nominated for 7 GOLDEN GLOBE AWARDS including BEST DRAMA, BEST ACTOR—Stathis Giallelis, BEST DIRECTOR—Elia Kazan.

“PICTURE OF THE MONTH!”—Seventeen Magazine
“A GLOWING ACHIEVEMENT!”—Good Housekeeping

STARTS FRIDAY MARCH 6
CENTER THEATRE
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
FEATURES: 1:40 P.M. — 5:00 P.M. — 8:10 P.M.
