PAGE FOUR

Miller Reveals Past Life: SEARCH FOR GOD
By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

He had been an egoist and a coward since he was four years old. Although he had been relatively successful
in love, in athletics, in business, he still had an empty feeling. He continually asked himself, “Why me?”

To illustrate the enigma of the question, “Why me?,” Keith Miller, Monday’s chapel speaker, described an incident on a subway
commuter train in New York. For several minutes, he had been watching a man down the aisle become sicker and
sicker looking. Finally, as the train made a stop, the man got up, trying to hold back the inevitable, and
staggered to the door. Outside stood an impeccably dressed executive. Just as the door opened, “the boy just barfed all
over that man’s blue suit.” As the train moved on, Miller could make out the words of the man as
he stood there dripping, “Why me?”

DIFFERENT FACES
“That is the exact question,” he said, “that has been bothering me for years. I have just been wearing faces
since I started to college. I've got a church face, a locker room face, and even a face for my
parents’ friends.” He began to wonder why he didn’t know “why.”

Two incidents which occurred while he was in college, Miller continued, changed his understanding of life. One was the death
of his older brother in a plane crash during World War II. “I worshipped my brother,” he added, “and his
death nearly broke my heart.” The tragedy also tore apart the lives of his parents, who had appeared so stable
to him. His father suffered a heart attack and his mother a nervous breakdown soon after the accident. “I learned
that my parents did not have the happy life that they appeared to have.”

AUTOMOBILE CRASH
The second incident was the experience of an automobile accident at 97 miles per hour. The driver lost control of
the car, which flipped off the road. The first thing Miller saw was his friend stand up and smile. Then
his face fell apart.” He himself sustained a broken neck. “I remember,” he reported, “feeling like I was going to
die. So I prayed like I'd heard you’re supposed to do in such situations, and I felt better about dying.”
He recovered from the broken neck, graduated from college, and took a job in a large oil firm. He married,
and shortly afterward was transferred to southern Texas. “I found none of that security stuff in the executive level, only
ulcers and worries.”

SEMINARY
After a few years of daily routine, Miller decided to enter theological school, to find his mission in life. “My
wife,” he said, “thought I was crazy, but said that she would go, too.” They obtained scholarships and away they
went to divinity school. “It wasn’t,” he remembered, “any different from the world. Everybody was trying to claw his way
to the top.” He did not find God, so he left after four terms. The Millers returned to Texas, where
he retained his old job. He was not happy, however, because “everybody looked at me like I was either queer
or not intellectual, just because I left school.”

LONE EXPERIENCE
One day, he just took off to the woods country where he could be alone. He stopped his car by
the side of the road and began to cry. “Finally,” he continued, “I said to God, ‘If there is anything
in this stinking soul you want, take it.’” “Immediately,” he said, “I felt like a burden had been lifted from
me.” This was 10 years ago. Said Miller, “I’m still an egoist and a coward, but God gives me some
days when I can live free from worry.” He added that God doesn’t want your time, but your will. “If
you’re runnin’ scared, like I was, try it.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

KEITH MILLER, “Why Me?” (Staff Photo by Smith)

ROBERT T. STONE
Stone Accepts Job in Davidson Bank

Robert T. Stone, II, assistant to the president, will resign in order to accept a position with the Piedmont Bank
& Trust Company effective July 1. Stone graduated from Davidson in 1962; he assumed his present post in July of
1964, following two years in the U. S. Army. He commented, “I've enjoyed this job; it's been a real opportunity
for a young man like myself. As a student I never realized what it took to run a college.” Stone
has been assigned to the insurance agency of the bank’s Davidson branch.

Smith To Preach in Vespers

Dr. D. Moody Smith, assistant professor of religion at Methodist Theological Seminary in Ohio, will speak at vespers Sunday night.
Smith received his AB from Davidson in 1954 where he was editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, elected to Phi Beta Kappa
and ODK, and a member of Kappa Sigma. He earned his BD at Duke where according to Dr. L. B.
Schenck, professor of Bible, he “made a grand record.” Smith received his MA and PhD from Yale and did further
study at Basel and Zurich in 1963-64. Before assuming his present position, Smith was a visiting instructor at Ohio Wesleyan
University. Later this year he will become Associate Professor of Religion at Duke Divinity School. Smith has written articles for
the Journal of Biblical Literature and New Testament Studies and this year has published his first book, The Composition and
Order of the Fourth Gospel, which, according to Schenck, has been “widely advertised in academic circles.” Smith is a member
of the American Academy of Religion and the Society for Religion in Higher Education.

FOR SALE: Three AFTER SIX suits, size 42; two white, one black. Also five dress shirts, size 15½ by 33.
PHONE: TW2-7761 (Adv.)

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S STEAK CHARCOAL HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

Rendezvous La Roma
Charlotte Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

The first Annual Spring Convention of the North Carolina Young Republicans College Council was pronounced a qualified success by all
members of the Davidson College delegation. The Davidson Young Republican Club, with a total membership of 51 members, sent seven
delegates to the convention in Winston-Salem last weekend. They were Joe Beard, John Futch, Warren Reid, Larry High, Steve Sands,
Harry McMullen, and Heyward Carter. The College Council is run entirely by college students and represents a fairly important factor
in the Young Republican organization, which it resembles in every aspect except age. The convention was also similar to those
held at regular state and national party conventions, featuring the traditional mixture of serious politicking and equally serious partying. Friday
evening final plans were made in the conservative camp, headed by representatives from U.N.C., State, Duke, and Davidson, for their
actions at the next day's general business meeting—the focal point of the convention. Coalitions were formed and re-established on both
sides and intelligence reports were brought up and pondered again and again until early Saturday morning, as both the rising
sun and the delegates got higher and higher.

NIXON ADDRESSES
Richard M. Nixon addressed the assembled delegates at noon Saturday at a dinner in his honor given for the benefit
of the party. All agreed as to its success in every way, except, perhaps.For the notable absence of the flag
to which Nixon attempted to pledge allegiance. The flag was later found in a room of the Davidson delegation. The
business meeting Saturday afternoon was marked by the dominance of the conservative element of the College Council in the adoption
of a strong conservative platform and the motion by the Davidson delegation chairman, John Futch, to endorse the "Conservative candidate
(for National Young Republican Chairman), Tom Van Sickle." This was followed by a spontaneous demonstration from the floor for Van
Sickle which lasted about five minutes and was punctuated frequently with loud cries of "Viva Ole!"

CONSERVATIVE BATTLE

Business of the convention was concluded in a lengthy Executive Committee meeting Sunday morning at which impeachment charges were brought
against John R. Patton of Wake Forest, current College Council Chairman, by Joe Beard of Davidson, and by other members
of the committee. After a fight between the conservative members of the committee and the chairman, the business meeting of
the preceding day was decided adjourned, as it was implied that Patton had intended to reconvene it two days later
at midnight in his room at Wake Forest. The adjournment of the Executive Committee meeting followed shortly, ending what proved
to be an important and extremely interesting convention.

Fain Is Appointed Wildcat Band Head

George Fain, rising senior from Abbeville, S.C., has been appointed by Dr. Grier Williams, assistant professor of music, to lead
the Wildcat Band during the '65-'66 season. He is a history major and a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity.
Fain will be assisted by Dave Hoag, a rising junior. The Wildcat Band, now in its fifth year, plays at
football and basketball games. It is sponsored by the Athletic Department but is entirely under student direction.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Meet Mike Carithers... YOUR FRIEND FOR LIFE

Mike is your Southwestern Life College Representative. He's helping young men plan now for a better life tomorrow. He has
a special plan. Its name — the INSURED CAREER PLAN. It's a young-man plan, a new-idea plan created by one
of the nation’s leading life insurance companies especially for, and only for, men college seniors and graduate students. Mike Carithers
is an easy person to talk with, and what he has to tell you about the INSURED CAREER PLAN can
make a lot of difference in your future. Talk with him. There’s never any obligation.

Southwestern Life COMPANY © DALLAS © SINCE 1908
201 S. Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N.C. FR6-8568

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brown, E. E.
Gable
Currie
Gill
Daggy
Griffin
Driesell
Kelton
Fraley
Mitchell
Welsh
Scott
White, L.
Swicord
Williams
Patterson, W. B.

FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1965

Five Students Granted Study Aids

Five Davidson chemistry majors have won assistantship and fellowship grants averaging $3000 per year at graduate schools throughout the East.
They represent about two-thirds of the 1965 chemistry degree candidates here. Several other chemistry majors who plan to do graduate
work in chemistry have not received grants at the present time.

Paul Reichardt, from Kirkwood, Mo., has been awarded a teaching assistantship at the University of Wisconsin. At Davidson, Reichardt is
a member of Phi Beta Kappa; Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity; and Sigma Chi.

Russell Trimble, member of Phi Beta Kappa, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Sigma Phi Epsilon, has received a tuition fellowship and
a teaching assistantship at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Trimble, from Kingsport, Tenn., plans to concentrate in the study of
physical chemistry.

John Bordley, from Winter Park, Fla., has won a Gilman Tuition Scholarship and a departmental fellowship at Johns Hopkins University
in Baltimore. Bordley, a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, plays the bassoon in the Wind Ensemble.

W. A. Haile has received an assistantship grant at the Institute of Textile Technology at Charlottesville, Va. Haile, a member
of Sigma Phi Epsilon and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, plans to do textile research during the summer.

Lowrie Beacham, a member of Pi Kappa Alpha and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, has won a three-year National Aeronautics and Space
Administration grant for study at the University of North Carolina. He is from Alexandria, Va.

Cafeteria Appoints Manager

Gene Stabile is the new manager of the College Union cafeteria, filling the position vacated by H. R. Bryson last
March. Stabile is a native of Pittsburgh, Pa., and a graduate of Duquesne University. He has served as the assistant
manager of the Fort Pitt Hotel in Pittsburgh and as manager of the University Union cafeteria at Bowling Green State
University in Ohio. As a second lieutenant in the Army, Stabile served officers’ open mess at Fort Bragg. He comes
to Davidson from North Carolina State University where he served over 1000 students per meal at Harris Hall.

Commenting on his impressions of Davidson after a week on the job, Stabile said that he was much impressed with
the campus and the students. "My office is open all day to people who have suggestions as to how we
might improve the food service," he added. He said that he planned to continue such niceties as the buffet salad
table which has recently been introduced. William Shroyer, who filled the vacancy for Slater while a new man was found,
placed a vote of confidence in Stabile, and said that he had enjoyed his stay at Davidson.

Stokes Asks Return Of 400 Range Balls

Honor Court Chairman Jim Stokes issued the following statement to THE DAVIDSONIAN this week: "It has been reported to the
Honor Court that 400 golf balls are missing from the driving range. Without these balls, the driving range cannot operate.
If the golf balls are not returned within one week, the Honor Court will be forced to conduct an investigation.
Those persons who are found to have taken the golf balls and have not returned them will be liable to
be charged with stealing."

GRADUATION AWARD

A big day for academic and extracurricular awards. That hard-earned college degree... and for the man who has taken full
advantage of his college years, a special award from the President of the United States—a commission as an officer in
the United States Army... the gold bars of a Second Lieutenant. That’s an award you can earn by taking Army
ROTC. Those gold bars mark you as a man apart from other men—a man able to work with others—to inspire
them. They mark you a leader.

An Army officer’s commission is proof to the world that your country places its trust and confidence in your judgment
and ability—proof that you have what it takes to make a decision and then act on it. These are qualities
built by Army ROTC training... qualities that will pay off for the rest of your life, no matter what your
career—military or civilian. If you're good enough to be an Army officer, don't settle for less. Stay in ROTC.
