Homecoming ’65

RICHARDS DESCRIBES TRUSTEES ROLE (See Page Three)

VOL. LV

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1965

WEATHER FORECAST
Partly cloudy and mild this afternoon. Cooler tonight and tomorrow. Generally fair and cool. High today 75; low tonight 52;
high Saturday 69.

NUMBER SIX

Female Onslaught Opens Gala Spectacle

Activities To Feature Ragtime, Rock ‘n Roll

Rejoicing over the radical change of scenery wrought by a huge influx of temporary residents of Belk and Richardson Dormitories
marked the opening of Davidson’s Homecoming weekend, 1965 version. A reception for Homecoming Queen candidates, escorts, the contest judges, and
Penny Clark, this year’s Miss North Carolina, opens the weekend’s official series of events tonight, beginning at 7:30 in the
Wildcat Room of the Union. The judges’ impressions of the girls at the reception will be the basis for their
selection of Davidson's new Homecoming Queen, to be crowned at halftime of tomorrow’s football game. The 12 fraternities on campus
and Lingle Manor are sponsoring the Homecoming Queen candidates.

Featured in the Artist Series presentation at 8 tonight in Chambers Auditorium will be Max Morath and the Original Rag
Quartet, which will give a presentation of ragtime music complemented by their own style of humor. The Union Social Committee's
Heaven and Hell Dance, a semi-formal event, begins at 10:30 in the Union, with two combos playing simultaneously in the
basement and the Morrison Room. The Enchanters are featured in hell, the Union's basement, and will play mostly rock and
roll, while Loonis McGlohon will attempt to grace heaven with slow dance music in the Morrison Room. Both dances will
conclude at 2:30. Most fraternities will also have combo parties tonight.

Saturday begins bright and early with a 3:00-4:30 breakfast in the Union Cafeteria, sponsored by the Social Council. “This is
a new idea,” says Social Council President Dan Campbell, “but we hope...

INCREASED CLASS UNITY

Faculty Favors Delayed Rush

By FRANK FLEMING
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Faculty response to the question “Has delayed rush been beneficial?” has indicated a general commendation for the new system. Among
the most ardent supporters was Dr. William B. Hight, director of student counseling. Calling the present plan of rush “a
definite change for the better,” Dr. Hight explained, “The freshmen seem to have made a better overall adjustment to Davidson
College. They feel more competent to deal with their problems and show less frustration.” Dr. Hight added, “From my point
of view these boys are a joy to counsel. They seek help in establishing study schedules or vocational plans. There
seems to be more class pride and no feeling of rejection. So far there have been none of the usual
freshman inquiries about changing schools.”

Dr. J. Alexander McGeachy noted the academic results of delayed rush in his freshman Humanities class: “The boys have a
better opportunity this year. The absence of fraternity pressure at the start of the semester has helped their class work.”
Dr. Philip Secor pointed out that both freshmen and upperclassmen now have more time for studies. He added, “I am
opposed to rush altogether and not sympathetic to fraternities; rush should not interfere with school at any time.” Yet Dr.
Secor did mention two positive effects of the delayed plan: “Through the dorm visitations the freshmen are more available to
the faculty. Also they’re more available to other activities, such as the YMCA.”

In a comparison of last year's freshmen with the present ones, Professor Charles Cornwell called the latter “more alert in
class, more active, more unified, and more interested in work. They evaluate people without benefit of badge — as individuals.”
Although Dr. J. G. Martin has not noticed any academic changes, he applauded the social innovations: “The Social Council has
done a commendable job and has provided a lot of improvements.” Dr. Thomas O. Pinkerton, having returned after a year
in Germany, has noticed “an improved alertness and class performance.” He added, “The fraternities seem to be in the twilight
zone; they need a clearer idea on the spirit of rush.” Dr. Samuel D. Maloney, a member of the Social
Life Evaluation Committee, also commented on the problem of “unnatural separation of freshman and upperclassmen in the dormitories, not to
mention the big handicap in transportation.” Dr. Maloney stressed the positive aspects, such as the “increased class unity. Also freshmen
have a bigger chance to decide for themselves this year.” Dr. R. D. Kaylor saw the initial advantage mentioned above
but looked ahead to the next two months for conclusive evidence.It will go over real well. Everybody usually wants something
to eat after fraternity parties, so this should be a success.”

Judging for the IFC Homecoming Display Contest will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow, with the 12 fraternities, Lingle Manor,
and the five freshman dormitory sections competing for the awards of fifteen, ten, and five dollars for the top three
displays. At noon tomorrow, a pre-game barbeque for students and alumni will be held on the lawn in front of
the Union and in the basement of Chambers. Tickets for this meal are by advance purchase only.

Kickoff time for the Davidson-VMI football encounter is 2 p.m., with the Wildcats going after their first Homecoming victory since
1961, when Presbyterian fell to the delight of the alumni. Homer’s contingent will be trying to bounce back from last
Saturday's loss to William and Mary by registering their fourth win of the year, while the Keydets will be trying
to break into the win column after five straight losses. Halftime will feature a parade of the Homecoming Queen candidates
around the field and the crowning of the 1965 Queen by Penny Clark.

Following the game will be an open house on the fraternity court for returning alumni. A charcoal hamburger supper, also
on the lawn in front of the Union, will be held from 5 to 6:30 under the sponsorship of the
Social Council; tickets for this event must also be purchased in advance.

Chambers Auditorium is the scene of the Social Council's Homecoming concert from 7:30-10:30 p.m. tomorrow, with both the Modern Folk
Quartet and The Platters providing the entertainment. “The Modern Folk Quartet was on ‘Shindig’ last week, singing just folk music,
and they were really good,” commented Campbell. “However, they also have begun playing English-type rock and roll, calling themselves ‘Your
Friends’ when they do, and they did real well when I heard them in San Francisco.” The Platters, of course,
have been turning out top sellers since their recording of “Only You” in 1955, and since then their hits have
included “Harbor Lights,” “The Great Pretender,” “My Prayer,” “The Magic Touch,” and “Twilight Time.”

A combo dance in the Union from 10:30-2:30, featuring the Monzas, and several fraternity combo parties will conclude the official
events of Homecoming. “Homecoming is always the biggest weekend of the year in terms of numbers of guests and dates,”
noted Mrs. Peter Nichols, supervisor of dormitories, “and we have, as usual, a waiting list for rooms in Belk and
Richardson.”

WEEKEND SCHEDULE

FRIDAY
8:15 p.m. — Artist Series — Max Morath with the Original Rag Quartet — Chambers Auditorium.
10:30-2:30 a.m. — “Heaven” Dance — Loonis McGlohon — Morrison Room, Union.
“Hell” Dance — The Enchanters — Chambers Basement.

SATURDAY
3-4:30 a.m. — Breakfast — Union Cafeteria.
3 a.m. — Free Movie “Peeping Tom” — Morrison Room.
6:30 a.m. — Sunrise — Lake Campus.
12 noon — Alumni Barbeque Luncheon — Chambers Basement.
2 p.m. — Football — Davidson vs. VMI.
5-6:30 p.m. — Homecoming Buffet.
7:30-10:30 p.m. — Concert — Modern Folk Quartet and The Platters — Chambers Auditorium.
10:30-2:30 a.m. — Combo Dance — The Monzas — Chambers Basement.
3 a.m. — Free Movie — “The World of Henry Orient” — Morrison Room.

Trustees To Combine Business, Festivities

Davidson's Board of Trustees convened today on campus to hold a regular business session and to participate in the homecoming
festivities. The executive committee met at 9:15 a.m. to set up the agenda for the regular business session, which began
at 10:30. At this session, the Trustees were considering both old and new business concerning the school. This is the
second consecutive year that the 48 Trustees have decided to hold a fall meeting.

At the regular business session, President D. Grier Martin presented his annual report concerning the changes and accomplishments of the
college in the past year. Also on the agenda were two topics of old business carried over from the spring
meeting. There was a second reading of the revision of the by-laws of the Trustees and of the new oath
to be administered to the members of the faculty. If these motions are passed this time, they will become incorporated
into the by-laws of the Trustees.

In addition, several committees appointed in the spring to investigate pressing issues of the college presented reports to the Trustees.
One such committee presented the change in the rule concerning the use of alcoholic beverages, which needs only the approval
of the Trustees to become part of the student regulations. Under the new ruling, students may consume alcoholic beverages at
any time that they are away from the college campus, but students are still prohibited from consuming or being under
the influence of an alcoholic beverage while within the town limits of Davidson or on the campus of the college,
including the lake campus.
