YMCA CANDIDATES—Nominated for President of the Davidson YMCA are (l-r above) juniors Nell McBryde, Buck Lawrimore, and Murray Smith. Each candidate will give a six-minute speech in chapel Thursday with voting for Y officers immediately after the assembly program.

Committee Report (Continued from Page One)

Chapter rooms for meeting places, but a limit would be placed on the number of members of one fraternity who could belong to any one club. Next, beginning with the academic year 1966-67, an upperclassman could eat with any club he desired, with certain provisos. Any student could remain in a house if he was in it during the last semester. The capacity of the house would be set at a reasonable number. Eligible students desiring to choose a club would draw numbers to determine the order of their selection. A small group could decide to form a bloc and join a club together. Such a group would draw one number. Finally, in the fall of 1966, a Housing Fee would be charged to all club members and a Maintenance Fee would be credited to the club. There would be a ceiling on board and social fees.

Reactions Vary (Continued from Page One)

Against races and religion are inconsistent with the ideal of the college.” He felt that “the faculty committee would be opposed to any such radical change. Pledging in 1965 must not be ruled out unless provisions for freshmen social life are enacted.”

“I like it,” responded Jones, “but people first will have to spend a lot of time to consider such a provocative document. Four months ago I myself would have been startled to think of such proposals." He recognizes the “need for more deliberation,” but expects the faculty to approve sophomore rush and to set a deadline for removing restrictive membership clauses. Past faculty votes already show their favor for such measures.

Von Unwerth said, “I believe the majority has faced the real issue. The report provides a probing analysis of Davidson's social situation and attempts to work towards a better Davidson. It is doubtlessly not perfect and will require constant revision during the transitional period.”

Being “very satisfied with the report,” Wray calls it “the most workable solution for the entire student body. I would like to see a student program of social life with 100 percent participation. The only solution is to take away the power of choice from the group and give it to the individual. I don’t see how the fraternities could adapt to this.” He continued, “It is all up to the faculty and administration now. The plans and financial problems will still have to be worked out.”

Young admitted, “My signing represents what some would consider a change of opinion: well, it is! It constitutes a change of thinking from my stand in the fall. I now believe that 100 percent bidding and sophomore rush are stop-gap measures, inadequate for a solution. A radical change or structural reform is required. It has taken me a long time to clear up my thinking on this subject, but this has been one of the great benefits of the committee. In my own mind, this report would provide the best system for Davidson. Probably by the end of April, we will know what action will be taken for next fall.”

Favoring a “moderate solution,” Dr. Kelton said, “There is general agreement on the immediate recommendations, but I feel that it is premature to settle on one long-range answer now. In removing the bad aspects from the fraternity, I would hate to throw away the good. Perhaps in the future, we could definitely decide, but for now, we should leave all possibilities open. I would guess that the immediate recommendations would be enacted.”

Being out of town, Terry was not available for comment. Ross explained, “Some changes are definitely needed, but I would like to see some more moderate changes. We need a continuing committee to evaluate and help make needed changes. I feel the majority recommendations are too radical to be adopted; however, the incoming student should have a competitive alternative to fraternity membership. I believe the faculty does favor some change.”

Council’s thoughts were along the same line: “I can’t agree with the proposed solution of the majority due to its being too radical a step. Fraternities have done nothing to justify being deprived of their facilities.”

Although Jackson did not sign either report, he “sympathizes with the minority. I don’t completely agree with the final goal of this evaluation. If approved, the Student Council should take up the suggestions to set up the Social Council.”

Haselden added his own viewpoint: “I am issuing a minority report with my own opinions due to the fact that I do not agree entirely with the majority report. I doubt if there will be any change next year provided, of course, that the faculty considers the proposals very carefully.”

(Editor’s note: The following statements are in response to a questionnaire submitted to the candidates for President of the Student Body. The nominees have outlined the three major planks in their platforms.)

Dave Meschan

The primary function of the student council president is to administer to what he feels are the needs of the student body. I have given much thought to what I consider these needs to be the basis of my candidacy. Below is a synopsis of my views on the three most significant issues in my platform.

I. The preservation of a strong fraternity system:
I feel that the existing fraternity system is a good one, adequately serving the needs of the majority of the students. A change of the system itself is not desirable because:
(1) The deficiency which exists lies not in the fraternity system but in the lack of collateral facilities.
(2) Any significant modification would be detrimental to the college, as well as to the majority of the student community.

II. The establishment of an integrated program providing for a specified number of attendances to be selected from:

The Committee based its inquiry on the premise that the organization of the social life at Davidson should be in accord with “the Christian, democratic, and educational aspirations of Davidson College.”

I firmly believe that fraternities constitute one of the most vital assets of Davidson College and that alleviation of our problems can best be achieved without the distortion of a working system.

The problem was interpreted by the Committee as a four-fold one. First, each student should be able to find a form of social expression without being embarrassed by criteria which are not consistent with the Christian, democratic, or educational goals of the College. Second, each student should be able to pursue his education without being distracted by conformity-demanding groups which consume undue amounts of time, interests, and effort. Third, each student should be able to determine his own associates. Finally, the fraternity should be limited to the role of a “small, voluntary, and closely-knit group” so long as its membership is determined by the blackball method. In the Committee's eyes, the fraternity system has led to the erection of “arbitrary barriers.” The Committee stated “such a system is contrary to any Christian or democratic social ethic.”

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414
Open ‘til 1 a.m. Monday—Friday

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for PIZZA
1318 W. Morehead
The famous OPEN KITCHEN
Charlotte, N. C.
Open Tuesday
For reservations: Charlotte 3-LLAKESIDE INN (Under New Management)
“We are eager to serve theStudents of Davidson College either individually or in semi-private or private parties.” Highway 115 South: Turn Right just before Fox Drive-in Theater. Jay through Saturday from 5 2701 — 596-2711 Fish N Camp Pp. mon... — Artist Series, vespers, chapel, talks of visiting lecturers, and other educational opportunities—in place of the present rigid chapel and vespers requirements. This would be intended to be the inception of an endeavor to diminish clerical restraints on Davidson College education. Such restraints frequently obstruct the attainment of a liberal and unbiased education—without aiding spiritual growth. Changes along these lines should result in both greater educational and greater spiritual development.

III. The expansion of student council activity in the social and recreational realm: There is a definite vacuum of social opportunities at and near the town of Davidson, and the Student Council can do something about it. I propose the procurement of a place near the campus which would accommodate student dating and nightlife. This could be the first step toward bringing regular social life within the proximity of the Davidson campus. The Student Council can also aid in the alleviation of the recreational problem created by the inadequacy of the gymnasium. A concerted effort can be made by the council to further increase the number of weekly hours the gym facilities are available to students until expansion can be accomplished.

Bill Council

The Student Council’s primary responsibilities are to: be aware of student concern and to be an effective voice of student opinion. The following proposals do not involve new ideas, but are directed toward matters which need attention.

I. Recreational facilities at Davidson: Last year Dr. Scott proposed to the college self-study committee that improvement be made in the school’s recreational facilities. The school appears to be rather slow in meeting the student's obvious needs in this area. Still, in terms of immediate improvement, the Student Council has begun this spring to keep the gym open at night, thus at least putting the present facilities to greater use. The Student Council should establish this service next fall on a year-round basis.

II. A system of course evaluation: A system of evaluation of the curriculum by the students would be beneficial in providing the professors with a means of determining their success in the classroom. The Student Council could administer this by means of course evaluation forms to be filled out by the students. These forms would be tabulated, and the final results would then be made available to the professors.

III. A continued evaluation of social life at Davidson: The evaluation of the social life at Davidson will, no doubt, be the most important issue facing the student body in the coming year. I have had the opportunity to sit in on the Student Council-appointed Fraternity Evaluation Committee, an experience which has given me some insight into the situation we face. The members of the committee have put many hours into consideration of the social life on the campus, and the report will, I feel, contain some very valid suggestions for change. I feel sure that any student at Davidson who examines the student social life as conscientiously as the members of the Evaluation Committee have done would realize that some very serious inequities exist here in terms of social opportunities. However, I feel just as sure that, as things now stand, there is no need for any sweeping changes in the organization of student social life. I am in favor of most of the preliminary recommendations of the committee. However, I feel that the proposed solution in the report of the majority is too great a change to be considered by the Administration. In the coming year the Student Council should provide an effective voice of student opinion concerning the proposed changes. Experience on the Student-Faculty Coordinating Committee convinces me that the Administration is mindful of the attitudes of students in areas which concern them. In regard to proposed changes in the social organization at Davidson, the Student Council will provide the most effective voice of student opinion for the Administration.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE
Ristoranti | STEAKS — La Roma
Charlotte, N. C. Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

THE FUN BEGINS AT HATTIE'S
just up the road....

You meet the nicest people on a Honda. Maybe it’s the incredibly low price. Or the fantastic mileage. It could be the precision engineering. Or the safety and convenience features. But most likely it’s the fun. Evidently nothing catches on like the fun of owning a Honda. Join in. The first step is a demonstration ride. Why not today?

HONDA OF CAROLINA
6050 N. INDEPENDENCE BLVD. / CHARLOTTE

FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1965

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Jackson
Maloney
Plott
Barber
Jones
Martin, S.
Rhodes
Brinkley
Kaylor
Marrotte
Richey
Cummings
Lammers
Minter
Schenck
Houchens
McGeachy
Nelson
Smith
Stone

Harvard Dean Will Speak Sunday

Dr. Samuel H. Miller, dean of Harvard Divinity School, will speak at vespers Sunday. Miller, a native of Philadelphia, received his education at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Colgate University, and Chicago Theological School. Miller obtained his baccalaureate at MIT, his doctorate at Colgate, and an honorary degree from Kalamazoo College. Miller is an ordained Baptist minister, having served several congregations in the American Baptist Church. His pastorate has included churches in Belmar, N. J.; Arlington, N. J.; and Cambridge, Mass. While still holding his pastorate in Cambridge, Miller became a professor of the philosophy of religion at Andover Newton Theological School and later a lecturer at Harvard Divinity School. He then became professor of pastoral theology and, upon retiring from the ministry in 1959, dean of Harvard Divinity School. Miller is the author of several works on religion, among them The Life of the Soul, The Life of the Church, and Great Realities.

College Infirmary Supervisor Dies

Mrs. Sara Johnston, supervisor of the college infirmary, died Thursday afternoon in a Charlotte hospital after an extended illness. She had been infirmary supervisor for 27 years. “She's been here longer than I have,” stated Dr. James B. Woods, Jr., college physician. “She came the first year the present infirmary was opened and did a wonderful job—as excellent as anyone could do.” Funeral services will be conducted Saturday at 11 a.m. in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

SEE OUR COLLEGE COLLECTION OF DACRON - COTTON PANTS
Fine enough for any collegiate occasion.
By PALM BEACH, FARAH, and HAGGAR
Only 5.98 to 9.95

SEE THE NEW ARRIVALS:
VAN HEUSEN and SERO half-sleeve shirts and sport shirts
Only 4.00 to 6.95

Meet Mike Carithers... YOUR FRIEND FOR LIFE

Mike is your Southwestern College Representative. He's helping young men plan now for a better life tomorrow. He has a special plan. Its name — the INSURED CAREER PLAN. It's a young-man plan, a new-idea plan created by one of the nation’s leading life insurance companies especially for, and only for, college seniors and graduate students. Mike Carithers is an easy person to talk with, and what he has to tell you about the INSURED CAREER PLAN can make a lot of difference in your future. Talk with him. There's never any obligation.

201 S. Tryon St., Charlotte, N. C. FR 6-8588
Southwestern Life INSURANCE COMPANY © DALLAS © SINCE 1908