THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1965

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Tuesday's chapel speaker, Edward A. Wayne, fourth in a series of speakers on economics, brought not only a wide background of experience in central banking, but also a reputation sufficient to win for him even the admiration of Davidson's usually complacent student body. Wayne is the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond and boasts a list of credits and honors long enough to impress any “incredibly brilliant group of men," as he tactfully referred to his audience.

The American Red Cross Bloodmobile will visit Davidson on Monday and Tuesday in its semi-annual, ROTC-sponsored visit. Blood donations will be received from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. each day in Johnston Gymnasium. Signs will be posted to guide students to the proper locations. This year’s drive will again feature competition among fraternities for a plaque award. The award will go to the fraternity with the highest percentage of donors.

...AND THE NEW

The familiar sight of workmen raking leaves by hand and loading them on trucks is fast becoming a disappearing one as Davidson joined the Space Age with the addition of a motorized “leaf-sucker” to its Maintenance Department. The giant vacuum cleaner is coupled with a large trailer to hold the leaves. The department also added a leaf blower which pushes the leaves into windrows, thus eliminating the need for raking. (Photo by Lesesne)

All ROTC students who wish to donate blood have an option. Those who give blood will be granted an excused absence from drill on Tuesday afternoon. Ten merits will be awarded to those who give blood and also attend drill. According to Captain J. B. Crawley, ROTC students who cannot give blood, such as those participating in athletics, may receive the 10 merits if they...

Student Survey Brings ROTC Policy Changes
By KERN PARKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Recent changes in the policies and procedures of the ROTC department resulting from last spring’s student survey were discussed recently in a DAVIDSONIAN interview with Col. Frederick Outlaw, professor of military science.

“We decided to make the survey,” said Outlaw, “in order to find out what changes the students felt would improve the department. We already knew that some corrective action was necessary, but felt that the students might be able to point out some problems that had not come to our attention.”

Perhaps the major change that resulted from the survey is the department's use of essay tests in place of the old objective tests. Students complained about questions that required a knowledge of insignificant facts or the memorization of long lists. Outlaw said that in this matter the students confirmed an opinion already held by the ROTC faculty.

A second major change resulting from the survey is the postponement of drill from 1:30 to 2 p.m. “We hadn’t realized,” said Outlaw, “that students having a fourth period class might have difficulty making it to drill on time.”

“The survey also influenced our decision to reduce the number of required rifle cleanings per month. We plan a further reduction if the students show a co-operative attitude,” Outlaw added. He explained that the decision to have a variety of programs and exhibits during drill period as well as actual marching stemmed from both ROTC faculty opinion and student opinion expressed in the survey. “We had it under consideration,” Outlaw said, “and when the students indicated a need for it we decided to go ahead.”

“The students also wanted to eliminate confusion and misunderstandings in drill, so now we require the officers of each company to meet and discuss drill procedure before Tuesday afternoon.” Outlaw added that the merit-demerit system was revised as a result of the survey.

Outlaw remarked that since last year the department has been trying to expose the students to a variety of professors, instead of having them meet with one all the time. Now each professor teaches the aspect of military science with which he is most familiar. “We're still attempting to improve the program,” Outlaw commented. “Sophomores and freshmen have selected committees to meet with me and discuss further changes.

“We also plan to place more emphasis on individual effort this year, particularly with the freshmen. We're going to give more promotions and establish more ranks. The freshman has never been recognized; we intend to give him recognition in the form of rank.

“We also intend to form companies composed entirely of...

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

The SLOT RACING
Enjoy the thrill of driving your own Ferrari or Ford-Cobra around quick turns or down blistering straight-aways.
Main Street—Davidson
Across From The College Church
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

...members of one class — all freshmen and all sophomores — for certain drill periods. By doing this we hope to cultivate leadership capabilities in non-officers.

“Student response has been definitely favorable thus far, and we hope it will continue to be. The entire ROTC program is under study on a nation-wide basis, but we're going...To make revisions as we see a need for them without waiting for conferences of the Department of the Army. “When we see a change is needed,” Outlaw concluded, “we're going to make it.”

Keep Warm
Let Us Help You
See Our Fine Selection
SKI JACKETS
CAR COATS
STADIUM COATS
SUBURBANS

Also, it is not too early to Christmas shop—Come see our fine selections for the girlfriend, sister, or mother.

Our 53rd Year
Clothes for the pace-setting traditionalist
Join Hock & Ger
Mooresville
Only 6 Miles North

In presenting the title of his discussion, “Discipline and the Free Enterprise System,” Wayne admitted that his topic seemed to be a contradiction in terms, but explained, as he later illustrated, that a system of enterprise such as the American one must necessarily have some form of restraint built into it if it is to remain free to govern itself. The Federal Reserve System is such a restraint on the type of enterprise which exists today, a restraint which boosts rather than hinders this system. The Reserve System is unique in that it is the only banking system built to contribute to the benefit of the greatest number by both public and private interest, he said.

This dual interest is very important and even vital to such a system because of our type of free enterprise. It is designed to avoid the concentration of too much power in a small group," said Wayne, but at the same time it avoids the pitfalls feared by so many Americans which may accompany a completely government-controlled bank. In practice, the system functions on the principle that it is necessary to hold a reserve on the amount of deposit each bank has at hand, the South Carolina native explained. The control is held by the central reserve bank which holds these reserves and can let the economy expand, but still keeping it from expanding too fast.

The Federal Reserve Bank is composed of a Board of Governors in Washington which has the power to supervise and coordinate all 12 district reserve banks. The district banks in turn have the right to vote for the directors of the system, which include six bankers, three businessmen, and three men who do not even own stock in a bank. These 12 men, who meet in Washington every three weeks to decide the policies of the system until the next meeting, know the exact economic situation all over the world at the time that they are making their deliberations.

The alternative to this type of banking system, according to Wayne, is either a system of complete control by the state or one of no state control at all—anarchy. The former is alien to our way of life, Wayne said, and the latter is not any more feasible because in our society the actions of every man affect and are too closely affected by the actions of others. “The only freedom is a shared freedom,” in a system such as this which affects the national economy so vitally and that is why, as Wayne stressed, “we must be prepared to accept discipline even when it hits us personally.” To remain free we must have self-restraint.

ROTC Set To Solicit For Students’ Blood
In order for students under 21 to make donations, the written permission of the students’ parents must be obtained. Forms for obtaining this permission were distributed at drill on Nov. 23. This form also releases the American Red Cross from any claims of damages because of the blood donation. In addition to the option to ROTC students and the inter-fraternity competition, a free cut will be awarded to Physical Education students who donate blood.

HOW YOU SAVE
UP TO $50,000
UP TO $25,000
TRAVEL ACCIDENT PROTECTION
ONLY $15 A YEAR!
R. T. STONE
INSURANCE DEPT.
PIEDMONT BANK & TRUST CO.
DAVIDSON, N.C.

As Bank President Wayne Wins Student Interest
The Student Council elected four delegates, John Thomas, Ken Childs, George Nzongola, and Sam Johnson, to represent Davidson in this series of debates concerning current world problems. These students, like many others from various colleges of the South, will assume the role of ambassadors from a country that they wish to represent. The three-day program will consist of discussions in political, economic, and social committees and of a mock general assembly similar to the United Nations.

John Thomas, one of the delegates, said that Davidson would probably represent either the United Arab Republic, France, or India. Because the students must consider the world problems from the standpoint of their selected country, he said that the Davidson delegates would probably be concerned with the problems of the Arab-Israel conflict, of De Gaulle and the Common Market, or of the controversy over Kashmir.

WITHERS ELECTRIC COMPANY
Electrical Service
Phone 892-2911
Davidson, N.C.
Radio, Record Player, and TV Repairs

The GONDOLA
Famous throughout the South for fine Italian cookery
2238 W. Independence Blvd. at Wilkinson Blvd.
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
LASAGNA
PIZZA
SPAGHETTI
Telephone 376-8118

New Releases of Top Selling Merchandise for young and old
Records
Folk, Jazz, Popular, Classical, etc.
Major label holiday music
Budget merchandise
Children's records
If we don’t have the record of your choosing, we'll get it.
THE STUDENT STORE