Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp
Editor-in-Chief

IRVINE WELLING
Business Manager

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Suicide Attempt

We were downright amazed at the temerity of the Interfraternity Council this week in prohibiting freshmen contact with fraternity men in any dormitory through practically the remainder of this semester. The impractical nature of such a restriction must be obvious to anyone who has had any experience with the situation of the Davidson freshmen. “It’s easier said than done.”

The change evidently was brought about after a “dirty rush” charge was lodged against one fraternity at the IFC meeting Monday night. Despite the reported lack of specific evidence to support the “dirty rush” charge, the IFC proceeded to adopt the revision which, in effect, bans fraternity men from entering a freshmen dormitory at any time, and vice versa, prohibits freshmen from entering an upperclass dorm before Jan. 3, 1966.

An “explanation” of the new rush regulations was supposed to take place at the freshmen chapel Wednesday, but we would hardly call a simple reading of the regulations an “explanation.” A subsequent question and answer session made a near comedy of the new regulations. After the assembly, we overheard one freshman remark candidly to another, “Well, if this is the way the fraternities run things, . . .” Doubtless more than one member of the Class of 1969 shares the same opinion.

We find it hard to believe that the Greeks are selling their system downhill with such stipulations. Yet with the rules approved Monday night by the IFC, we have our doubts. Let us look at a few situations that could very easily arise:

— Sixty-niner is having trouble with a couple of calculus problems on the night before a writ. Even if he were to seek out an Independent upperclassman, he must risk having “contact” with a fraternity man in the dorm. Or what if Eta Beta Pi wants to check with sixty-niner about the same problem?

— Perhaps one Greek has a message for another Greek who is a hall counselor. Must he trot all the way to the house to call back up to the dormitory which is beside his?

— Sixty-niner may want a ride home with Greek on Saturday. How is he to get in touch with the upperclassman?

— A freshman may need to contact an officer of a campus organization who just happens to be a fraternity man. Or he may need to check with a DAVIDSONIAN staff editor about an article. Under the existing rules, he might as well give up.

Ironically, the situation which prompted the “dirty rush” charge—where two freshmen are rooming on the normally upperclass second floor of Watts dorm—is confused even more by the new regulation. As to just what constitutes “upperclass contact” in any dorm, no one seems able to say. Other very practical situations have been raised, many of which the IFC should have foreseen before they jumped headlong into the revision this week. It seems that some note of practicality could have been sounded during the IFC’s three-hour session Monday night.

Perhaps on the other hand, freshmen are getting a true picture of how rash fraternity life can become for some people. We are thus reminded of a recent article in The Wall Street Journal which delved into fraternity life on American campuses. The article stated in part:

“Now, in the post-Sputnik, post-Birmingham era, the Greek letter societies are being called upon to justify their existence. Many have responded by lowering formal barriers to membership, by placing more stress on scholarship and less on whoopee, and by widening their contacts with other segments of university life.

“Yet even as the Greeks move to silence their critics, they find it increasingly difficult to maintain their popularity, prestige, and power on many campuses, and on others, their very presence is threatened.”

The report also states: “Many a collegian shares his skepticism about the merits of fraternity life. As the burden of academic work grows, as the competitive pressures for grades mount, and as sentiment against discrimination rises on the nation’s campuses, more students and school administrators tend to view fraternities as anachronisms—throwbacks to less demanding days when a Saturday beer blast could always take precedence over a tussle with the books, the ‘gentleman’s C’ was a common academic goal, and the exclusion of Jews and Negroes from most fraternities was tacitly accepted.”

The leading business publication is not the only journal which is looking hard at the Greek system. In an editorial entitled, “A Passing Institution?” another national newspaper stated last month: “American fraternities and sororities, often an object of considerable curiosity on the part of those from other lands, are significantly changing their way of life in a race for survival. Basically, they are struggling to catch up with the times.” The Christian Science Monitor concludes: “The survival and usefulness of these societies still depend upon their ability to adjust to advancing concepts of social responsibility and individual maturity.”

Davidson’s fraternity system is already under tight scrutiny this year, and the IFC is falling all over itself in trying to keep this game called “rush” alive. In their fickle rules, the council has left the term “upperclassmen” as ambiguous as ever, when substituting the words, “fraternity man” would clarify many questions. Even though the IFC should maintain authority over rush, we believe that the faculty committee on fraternities should at least review the IFC's regulations, suggesting any revision as the committee may see as necessary.

Yet at the faculty committee’s meeting on Tuesday, no copy of the revised rules was presented. Reportedly, only a mention was made that the former rules had been “scrapped” for a new set. As of yesterday, the committee had still not received a copy of the new regulations either for review or merely for information. These oversights on the part of the IFC are unfortunate, to say the least, and demand immediate attention and redress. It is also regrettable that the Class of 1969 must play the part of guinea pigs in this year of necessary change; however, this is no reason for the startling capriciousness of the IFC so far this year.

We do not pretend to have the solution to this compromise system of rush, but we do believe that a thoroughly practical set of rules is long overdue. Several IFC members expressed the belief yesterday that another change in the regulations—this time for the better, we hope—is forthcoming next week. Again, we are appalled that such unworkable rules could be agreed upon by those students who supposedly represent the best interests of the fraternity system. Or is the system doomed by its caprice this year? We shall wait until next week for the latest edition of the 1965-66 Rush Regulations.

RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON

Assistant Editors

BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS
LOUIS LESESNE

Associate Editors

Managing Editors

Assistant Copy Editors

BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER

Sports Editor

BILL BRIGGS

Assistant Sports Editor

ARCH McCALLUM

Photography Editor

TOM THEL

Photographer

CHIP PURVIS

Cartoonists

LOU HILL
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager

BOB CAMERON

Advertising Manager

BILL WATSON

Circulation Manager

JOHN VISER

PAUL MARION

Assistant Managing Editor

TOM COOK

News Editor

SAM BOYTE

Feature Editor

HEYWARD CARTER

Copy Editor

CHRIS HAWK

Contributors this week: Luther Moore, Sonny Graves, Yates Faison, Tommy Cox, Doug Crisp, Bob Reid, Mike Mooty, Joel Keys, John Allan, Chip Robertson, Ron Snow, Bob Travers, Robbie Hooker, Frank Fleming, Mike Bates, John Cooly, Don Carroll, Price Cameron, John Williams, Mason Stephenson, John Bailey, Bill Graham, Al Vernar, Allen Webb, Mike May, Charles McEwen, Dick Richards, Dick Thurston, John Wessel.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (If billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

IBM Dream Girl by Lingle

WHO'S GOT THE BLUES ON THE WITH THE TALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

‘52 Alumnus Takes Issue With Lawrimore's Letter

Dear Editor:

I should like to respond to the letter of Mr. Buck Lawrimore in your September 24 issue. The response, as Mr. Michael Harrington brings out in his column, has often been expressed, but perhaps it should be expressed again.

First off, Davidson College is founded on a belief in God as revealed through Jesus, the Christ. Davidson is not preaching Christ to bring in money; rather it is preaching Christ because that is what it exists to do—that is why it is kept in existence, and it takes money to do so. Davidson's mission is to produce liberally educated, Christian men for leadership in the professions, business and industry, and in churches and communities through the nation. It does this by a certain amount of Christian training, and training requires some disciplines.

The purpose of Davidson College should be clear enough to a prospective student to give him an indication of what the College's dedicated teaching aims are and what some of the consequent disciplines will be. The College assumes the right to set the disciplines it deems necessary to properly respond to those who have asked for its training. The Christian faith, which Davidson College was founded to propagate, is found through earnest seeking, not through casual pursuing. It hardly seems inconsistent with the teachings of Christ that men who are avowedly seeking Him are asked by a Christian training institution to give some formal attendance to that pursuit.

I thought Mr. Harrington's column an excellent examination of the conflict between “religious indoctrination and free academic inquiry.” First and foremost, however, Davidson College begins with an assumption of God, a faith in Jesus Christ; and as long as it is true to that assumption, it is true to itself.To that belief, the College must be certain that it adequately presents The Way and The Truth. Other philosophical inquiry it may also encourage, but its mandatory mission includes an encouragement of Christian development.

William A. White, Jr. '52
Charlotte Nzongola

Dear Editor,

Associate Editor Johnny Clark's first article on the Los Angeles riots was a remarkable piece of journalistic irresponsibility. Clark not only wanted to let us know that he was in Los Angeles during the riots, but he also fills the whole article with accounts or “ironies” that have little, if any, value to the understanding of the riots. To write that “over half of the deaths were Negroes” is only to prove the charge of police brutality which he tries to deny. To write that “the rioters spared only establishments with ‘Blood Brother’ signs” is only to lie because there is good evidence that stores were damaged indiscriminately, and in spite of signs. I think Clark could be more responsible if he could show that it is wrong to equate mob violence with civil rights movements as the head of the Alabama State Police tried to imply. He could also serve the cause of truth and impartiality if he understood that the riots were caused primarily by economic deprivation rather than racial hatred.

Georges Nzongola
Davidson College

Lawrimore

Dear Editor:

We are pleased that Mr. William A. White Jr. is concerned enough for the College to attempt to justify its stand on compulsory worship, although we are at the same time disappointed that no one on the faculty or administration has cared enough to write in defense. As Mr. White himself has noted, his own defense is the usual one, and hopefully in replying to him we will also reply to others who agree with his points.

Although he used a great many glorious phrases to express it, Mr. White's basic point seems to be simply that Davidson cannot fulfill its “mission” without requiring its students to worship God. With that line of thinking we thoroughly disagree. Davidson's Christian commitment is admirable and, to many of us who have been or are related to it, this commitment is desirable. As Christians, we rejoice that the institution of liberal education we attend also upholds our highest ideals, and we feel that the spirit of Christian love is a major and certainly a vital part of the warm atmosphere we all breathe here. Most of us, upon reflection, would agree that the College can best communicate its ideals to us by presenting us with speakers who are highly capable of expressing the appeal and power of the Christian gospel. But the vast majority of us students are also quite capable of seeing the distinction between worshipping God and hearing (or enduring, as the case may be) a speaker espouse his views. Why can’t the faculty and administration see the significance of this distinction? God only knows. It seems that anyone with a conscience must agree that worship should never be compelled. We students might well say, “Out of respect I will listen to your beliefs. But when you force me to signify that I have accepted your beliefs, when you force me to worship as you worship, you have gone too far. You have violated my dignity as a human being.” Perhaps the dismal truth of the issue is that the College has too little respect for our dignity as human beings. Perhaps the time has come, long overdue, for us students to demand respect.

Buck Lawrimore
Davidson College

CLOSE-UP
By TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Life is easy at “Mother Davidson.” Just ask any of the 12 boys who spent their Junior Year in France — they’ll tell you. From the comparative smallness and security of Davidson, the French group was plunged into a university of 20,000 students and a campus spreading over a city of 100,000. Many little things are taken care of at Davidson that we found ourselves having involvedly to do in Montpellier. Take, for example, the simple item of convenience. We have only to walk five minutes at the most from dorm to farthest class at Davidson. The situation in Montpellier finds classes in buildings scattered widely over the city. This necessitated the purchase of some sort of “wheels” by the entire group. Even so, did you ever try bucking the nine o’clock traffic on your motorbike to get to Poly Sci?

HOT SHOWERS

A luxury item at Davidson is the hot water shower. What a shock it was for Davidsonians to adjust to a weekly bath schedule, but the French students did it, so we figured we could. Several of the group roomed in a private dormitory where hot showers were promised, but the water heater developed some chronic illness. Ever leave a light burning in your room here on campus? You wouldn't in France, if you didn’t want to be evicted. Electricity is very expensive, and landlords view every volt you use with a grudging eye. A simple matter here, every Monday, is to drop your bag of dirty clothes by the laundry. It’s not so simple in France, where high laundry costs and slow service encouraged us Davidsonians to get extra mileage from each article of clothing. Many of the groups did most of their own washing, and gradually converted their wardrobe to nylon and wash-and-wear fabrics.

CAFETERIA LINES

We ate in the University cafeterias for about 27 cents a meal. At that price, you couldn’t afford to pass it up, but neither could the other 20,000 students! Horrendous lines developed in the three student restaurants at mealtimes. At first, we polite Davidsonians were fair game for the expert French line maneuverers, but before long, we were in there shoving with the best of them. Our best practice was logged Sundays, when but one of the restaurants was open to serve the student hordes. That day, line switching became a serious, dirty fight. To survive it took an excellent sense of timing, a nerve of steel, and a complete lack of conscience. I'll never forget one night, when three girls fainted in the push, two pairs of eyeglasses were broken, and several accidentally dropped shoes were lost forever.

Ever complain about the lack of telephones on our campus? Just try to find one in France. Most of the time, it was necessary to go all the way to the central post office and fight a line for a booth. Try this once, and you decide you REALLY don't need to call anyone. The library we used in France featured one large study room, which was about as quiet as Freedom Park on July Fourth. It was poorly lighted, ill-ventilated, and definitely not designed for study. A closed stacks system made obtaining a book an ordeal.

PARKING PROBLEMS

Parking for motorists proved quite a problem. The Schools of Law and Letters were both in Ancienne Ville, the medieval part of Montpellier. There was never any assurance when you turned into a street that you would be able to get out again. Some fairly wide streets became alleys, and then abruptly became flights of steps, in a three-block distance. Most often, to pass oncoming traffic, one of you had to ride along the sidewalk. All this difficult driving was complicated by the ubiquitous motorbikes, bicycles, and Vespas plying the streets and the ever-present fear that a neighborhood housewife was going to dump her garbage out the third-story window onto your car.

Maybe it sounds like a difficult, a discouraging life. Well, it’s NOT. It’s only different from what we know at Davidson, and to me, this is one of the major advantages of the entire Junior Year Abroad experience. In adjusting, we grew.

Freshman Hite Calls For Change In Vespers Rule

Dear Editor:

During my first couple of weeks here I have heard, it seems, more than one would expect to hear concerning church, chapel, and attendance required by the college. It seems that the roots behind this barrage of college policy lie somewhere between fear of early student dissension this year and a determined stand taken by the Board of Trustees. I believe the trustees were right in having taken a stand which supports the church through the college and vice versa. The questions arise from the manner of operation of the system. Deeper questions come from the students themselves asking: “Is this true religion?” and “Can Christ be found this way?”

Certainly the well-planned Vespers program offers an unequaled opportunity for students to absorb the varied aspects of individuals and locations on religion. But undoubtedly required worship service cannot be the answer to a student's search for truth and Christ. The drive, the desire to worship must and will (or won't) come from him. It is not for the college to require worship, indeed only God can require this—and even he does not. He requests it of us as independent beings of his creation. Beings with the right—the God-given right—to choose for ourselves between Heaven and hell. Certainly one can worship at a Davidson Service. The point is that one cannot be free to worship. It seems ironic that when a student misses church here he is more likely to feel his punishment in the form of a cut rather than ashamedness for his neglect of Christ. Also humorous was the remark comparing required attendance in classes with the required attendance for chapel and vespers. If church attendance is to be similar to class—why then, say in order to make us better church-goers, couldn't we be given graded reports and semester hours credit for our attendance and progress there?

Once again I'll repeat that the college does have a duty to inculcate and stimulate the religious nature in its students, but this program as it now stands seems too militaristic. It lacks and indeed can only lack the true meaning of really free worship. Let it be agreed that a change in the chapel and vespers policy would present various problems already stated by President Martin. However, could we not have these visiting pastors come and speak at a required religious period during the week (say a chapel period)? This would leave Sunday services open to we few who in our own way would like to find and worship God.

Carey Hite
Davidson College