PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN

AFTER SEVERAL ACCIDENTS Railroad Crossing Draws Concern

McGAVOCK (Continued from Page One)

in immediate order for two reasons: an undue financial burden might be placed on some fraternities and there existed the
problem of providing adequate social life for incoming freshmen. The committee thereby proposed to institute a program whereby a new
evaluation committee could analyze the gradual effects of the two proposed eating clubs and an alternate Rush policy for a
longer period of time and be able to take a more objective look at the situation. It still hopes that
this will be the mechanism that is used during the coming year.

McGavock stated that he believed that, allowing for a possible lack of time, his committee was able to study every
point of view thoroughly. All opinions of students and alumni alike were closely analyzed and every position was recognized. “I
don't know what else we (the committee) could possibly have done” to grasp student opinion, McGavock stated. “All opportunities were
given to allow discussion and presentation of the various points of view.” McGavock views the problem as one of continued
analysis and to which there are no immediate answers.

BOYCOTT (Continued from Page One)

because it would involve two unrelated issues; namely the fraternity situation and required chapel and vespers attendance.” Haselden said that
more than 100 seniors signed the petition Wednesday night. He estimated that approximately 60 per cent of the senior class
was contacted before chapel Thursday. Haselden said that he was not necessarily the leader of the senior protest but was
spokesman for the change in attitude on the part of most of the group.

The Notorious “Tunnel”

(Staff Photo by Ron Snow)

The night is misty as the motorist leaves the campus on the way to Highway 21. If he takes the
road leading from the Fine Arts Building he remembers that there is a railroad crossing about a hundred yards down
the road. Boxcars are pushed up close on either side of the crossing, clouding vision and creating what townspeople call
“the tunnel.” Proceeding cautiously through it, the unsuspecting driver is struck by a freight car moving through the crossing. There
was no lowered crossing gate, no warning bell or flashing red light, not even a flagman or a flare to
alert the motorist. The run itself was an irregular one. This type of incident has occurred twice at that Griffith
Road crossing since Homecoming Weekend, according to Mayor F. L. Jackson. Other minor accidents have occurred on the line between
Charlotte and Winston Salem at the rate of two per year, but these past two accidents have been the worst
ones, said the mayor. As traffic on the road increases and the railroad steps up its number of runs, both
scheduled and irregular, the likelihood of fatal accidents continually mounts. The Friday morning of Homecoming a man and his wife
who were traveling west on Griffith Road were hit by a train as they passed through “the tunnel.” Both the
man and his wife were thrown from the car, which was completely demolished, and both received minor injuries.

IFC Elects Jim Terry Next Year’s President

The Interfraternity Council elected Jim Terry president for the coming year in its meeting Monday night. Al Carson and Tom
Brown were elected secretary and treasurer, respectively. Terry, a rising senior, is from Peterstown, W. Va. A member of Phi
Gamma Delta, he is serving his second year on the IFC and participates in varsity football and baseball. Carson, also
a rising senior, represents Alpha Tau Omega. He is from Atlanta, Ga., and is a staff writer for THE DAVIDSONIAN.
Brown is a rising junior and a member of Pi Kappa Alpha. He is from Blacksburg, Va., and is a
transfer from VMI, where he was Outstanding Freshman Cadet. The new president anticipates “a lot of work,” and stated that
the withdrawal from the IFC of the responsibility for social functions is a welcome change. The group's biggest problem now
will be regulating contact.

IFC Endorses Report Of Faculty Committee

By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON Davidsonian Associate Editor

The Interfraternity Council passed a resolution “strongly urging adoption of the McGavock Report” after two closed meetings Thursday afternoon and
evening. Newly-elected IFC President Jim Terry described the unanimous recommendations of the Faculty committee as “the most positive actions for
both the campus and the fraternities.” Two meetings were necessary in order for the fraternity representatives to draw up the
resolution taking a stand on the McGavock proposals to submit the resolution to their respective houses for a vote and
then report back to determine the IFC stand. Terry hesitated to call the vote on the IFC resolution “unanimous” because
of the indefinite and contingent nature of some of the proposals in the McGavock report. But he said that a
major concern of the IFC was to have “some form of freshman rush and this is included in the McGavock
report.” Commenting on Wednesday night's demonstrations, Terry stated that the IFC did not in any way sponsor the demonstrations, but
he emphasized that the council refused to take a stand either for or against such demonstrations.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte,
N. C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The new IFC head also expressed relief at having responsibility for dance weekends given to a new campus social committee.
“We are one of the few IFC's in the country that have had the responsibility for planning campus-wide social functions.
Doing this has been a great strain on our shoulders and forced us to postpone some of our other plans
such as the proposed drama festival and the new fraternity scholarship program because of the time and worry involved in
planning dance weekends for the entire campus.” Emphasizing again the positive nature of the McGavock report compared with other proposals
as the big reason for its IFC endorsement, Terry concluded that the campus-wide social committee would enable the IFC to
spend more time on its principal task: “We can now be a more effective Interfraternity Council in carrying out our
main purposes, regulation of relations between the fraternities themselves and representation of the fraternities to the Hill.”

Gadabout Europe! Get your INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ID CARD

Take a student ship to Europe then join a “GADABOUT” car tour of not more than five other students. We
also have 30 other unique tours and study programs! Book your passage with us—ask for special folder and student jobs
in Holland. Write: Dept. Cz, U.S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION 263 Madison Avenue New York, N. Y. 10016

THE FUN BEGINS AT TIE’S “just up the road....”Injuries. More recently a Davidson faculty member was involved in the accident
described in the opening paragraph. He was on his way to see the Wildcats at the Coliseum on Jan. 2.
He escaped personal injury himself, but members of his family were seriously injured, and his new car was a total
loss when the train finally stopped after pushing the car about 50 yds. after impact. The professor stated that there
was no warning device of any kind when he started his crossing, but that when he looked back toward the
crossing after the train stopped, flares had been ignited and placed about in hurried profusion. He explained also that it
was a coupling of a tank car which actually struck his car, and that this tank car was five cars
away from the engine. Because of the occlusion of the boxcars, the engineer could not see the road and prevent
the accident. The main problem lies in the fact that there is no warning signal and hardly ever a flagman
to warn motorists when a train comes through. At present, there are four runs a day through the town plus
other irregular runs. The hazardous conditions are multiplied by the greater volume of automobile traffic than when the crossing was
made seven years ago. Mayor Jackson asked the Southern Railway Company two years ago to install an electric warning device,
but D. D. Strench, general manager of the Southern in Charlotte, contends that the tracks were there before the road
and that it is thus the duty of the Highway Commission to install such a signal. North Carolina law states
that, “whenever any road or street forming a part of the highway system intersects a railroad and, in the opinion
of the Chairman of the State Highway Commission, such crossing is dangerous to the traveling public, the Highway Commission shall
issue notice requiring the railroad to appear before the Commission in its Raleigh office and show cause why the railroad
company should not be required to install and maintain gates, alarm signals, or other approved safety devices.” N. M. Burgin,
district highway engineer, has recently added to his approved list of projects the request for such a signal, but stated
that there were many other projects before it on the list. He said too that, “A proper electrical signal for
the crossing, including connections and installation, would cost at least $14,000. There may not be enough funds available when we
reach that project on the list.” Dave Powell, Student Council member who has been investigating the situation, says that, “all
efforts on the part of the Student Council to rectify the problem have been unable to produce any tangible results.
The only way to gain results is to arouse interest by publicizing the problem.”

COACH HOMER SMITH FRIDAY, APRIL 16, 1965 “Emphasis On Effort” AT OPEN END Smith Has Enthusiasm By MIKE MAY Davidsonian
Feature Writer Davidson Wins National Championship? Undefeated! Headlines after basketball season? No, these are the modest aims of Head Coach
Homer Smith and the Wildcat football team. Smith wasn't really quite that optimistic but at Open End Wednesday night he
certainly displayed to the audience of about fifty an air of confidence which has heretofore been rare in Davidson football
circles. Maybe this self-assurance was just because everybody laughed at his jokes but he certainly made the group feel that
the Wildcats’ fortunes are liable to take a turn for the better in the next few years. Smith began by
outlining a series of accidents by which he came to grace our campus. It seems that he had friends in
high places that he didn’t even know about. Once he arrived, however, he was impressed. “Davidson is one of the
most remarkable schools I've ever seen,” he said. He added that, “We've had some success in recruiting. The name Davidson
sells very well.” Smith later admitted that he had encountered some trouble due to Davidson's poor record in the past.
One of the first things Smith learned on arriving on campus was that around here there is no sport but
basketball, and Lefty is its prophet. He did come to meet and admire Driesell, and he gave credit to the
latter’s “fertile mind” for a great deal of help. Smith then outlined spring practice to date and some plans for
the immediate future. His evaluation? “We are tremendously encouraged by the enthusiasm and willingness to work. The whole emphasis is
on effort. Everybody will be a hitter.” Judging from the program of drills that he described, everybody will either be
a hitter or dead. The seniors on the team came in for special praise. Smith said, “In every area the
seniors will be leaders.” He mentioned Steve Smith, Stu Perry, and Pack Hindsley in particular. Then the floor was opened
for questions, as Smith quipped, “Take a good look at me: I'm undefeated.” The questioning session ranged from offensive strategy
(single spread) to budget (too small) to uniforms (new). He complained about the lack of embarrassing questions until someone asked
him to predict next year's record. Like all good coaches, he neatly side-stepped that one.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte,
N. C. (Under New Management) “We are eager to serve the students of Davidson College either individually or in semi-private
or private parties.” Highway 115 South: Turn Right just before Fox Drive-in Theater Open Tuesday through Saturday from 5 p.m.
on... For reservations: Charlotte 377-2701 — 596-2711

Smile, Davidsonian! Our Trousers, Walk Shorts, Swimwear, and Sport Shirts are designed just as you like them.
