FACULTY CONDUCTS INDIVIDUAL RESEARCH (See Page Three) VOL. LIV. The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, APRIL 16, 1965 BASEBALLERS DROP FOUR MORE (See Page Five) NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR Faculty Delays Fraternity Pledging, Approves New Social Club Structures * * * ‘NO IMMEDIATE ANSWERS’ WEDNESDAY NIGHT DEMONSTRATORS — “We Shall Overcome” (Photo by DuPuy) DIRECTED AGAINST JONES Mob Protests Faculty By ED MAXWELL Davidsonian Staff Writer More than half of the student body staged a noisy, hour-long demonstration Wednesday night in protest of the faculty's action on the fraternity question. Demonstrators began to gather beneath the flagpole north of Chambers at 9:30 to set up a gallows and prepare a bonfire. Fifteen minutes later the bonfire was lit and demonstrators cried “Jones must go!” referring to assistant Dean of Students Bob Jones. Karl Beck, spokesman for the group, said that the demonstration was not against Jones entirely, but that “his vindictiveness led him to be the focal point of the demonstration.” Students waved signs as the frenzy of the mob increased. “A college, a cloister, or a kindergarten?” read one sign. Another said, “Without our fratties all we can do is drink at Hatties.” Earlier in the evening John Barrow and Student Body President Bill Council went to the second floor of Watts where the demonstration reportedly originated to request that the organizers avoid making a personal attack on Jones. Bob Dugger, one of the planners, insisted that the demonstration was in protest of “the lack of directedness” of the faculty’s action. Beck spoke to the group—estimated at 400 at one time—as they stood around the fire waving banners and shouting “Keep our fraternities.” He said that Dr. W. G. McGavock had offered a “rational and sincere proposal” which was much better than that accepted by the faculty. “The faculty could reverse this decision that has been made,” he said. “One man with a vindictive attitude can’t come here and change something so basic in one year,” continued Beck, who later said he was referring to Jones. Beck, the central organizer for the protest, is a transfer student now in his first year at Davidson. From the bonfire the demonstrators proceeded to march with torches past the library chanting, “Jones must go,” “Keep our fraternities.” The crowd then marched down Concord Road to Main Street and turned north to the house of President D. G. Martin. Mrs. Martin opened a second floor window and, to the delight of the crowd, said, “I’m the only one here. Sorry, I can't help you.” Chaplain Will Terry then faced the mob as it stood across the street from Jones’ house. He suggested that the students return to the front of Chambers where President Martin would speak to them. President Martin appeared on the steps of Chambers before the mob and said, “I haven't heard anything but noise which you've made very adequately. I don’t know what you expect us to do.” Beck again explained that the protest was directed at what was considered to be unsatisfactory faculty action. He again said that he preferred McGavock's proposal. Martin said that he felt that the method the students were using was altogether improper. “I don't think we've disregarded your opinions,” he said reflecting upon the faculty action. “The matter is not yet settled,” he added. “Davidson College won't be forced by action like this to do anything,” stated Martin. “Sign petitions stating just what you've been trying to put across tonight.” Martin then explained that he was in the process of preparing the college budget for the coming year and that he needed to return to his work. The demonstration dissolved when Beck suggested that the students return to their rooms. Julian Fite and Dugger, having been among the organizers, expressed their satisfaction with the demonstration. Seniors Discontinue Boycott Of Services Senior fraternity men who called for a boycott of required chapel and vespers services for the remainder of the academic year have since urged a discontinuance of the plan. Only seniors were asked to sign petitions which were circulated before Thursday chapel calling for a boycott of required services for the remainder of the year. It was the intention of the group, according to one spokesman, to walk out of the chapel program Thursday. Parry Teague, a senior member of Sigma Chi, was scheduled to speak at the Thursday program. Hearing of the planned walkout, Chaplain Will Terry persuaded Teague to postpone his talk and let Terry speak instead. The chaplain walked off the stage in the midst of his talk after speaking for approximately seven minutes. Professor James G. Martin, who was on stage with Terry, then appealed to the audience to take another course of protest against the faculty action. (Photo by DuPuy) KARL BECK AND TORCHBEARER STEVE BUNCH “A Vindictive Attitude” The professor advised the students that their proposed boycott of required services would not be focusing on the real issue. He told the group to petition the trustees instead. Several of Martin's colleagues expressed disapproval of the professor's urging student action against the faculty decision. Dick Bates, a senior member of Kappa Alpha, followed Martin to the rostrum and read the petition which has been circulated among the seniors. The signees had stated their willingness to risk any penalty that might have been imposed on them for the boycott. In a statement to THE DAVIDSONIAN after the assembly program, Ed Haselden explained the change in attitude in the following way: “After much thought and deliberation, it has come to light that this may not be the most feasible means of bringing the matter before the trustees. “It was found that other definite and progressive steps were underway to bring the faculty committee report before the trustees. We feel that continuance of our boycott will serve to confuse that matter more be- (Continued on Page Six) McGavock: Solution Through Cooperation By JOHN BAILEY Davidsonian Staff Writer Dr. W. G. McGavock, chairman of the faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life, said in an interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN this week that he felt the recommendations adopted by the faculty were compatible with his committee's report and that a satisfactory solution would be reached quickly with everyone working together. Seven of the nine proposals of the faculty committee were accepted. McGavock said he was hopeful that the action taken by the faculty would be “an active step toward an effort to find out where we are and where we are going” in trying to improve the social life of Davidson students. McGavock pointed out that the only possible inconsistency between the faculty’s action and the committee's report would be in interpretation of the basic philosophies of the two. “It was the idea of the committee not to institute an immediate drastic change until the college could be more assured of the outcome,” McGavock said. As long as the faculty action remains compatible with this goal, he added, there should be no barriers between the two. After extensive study the Faculty Committee arrived at four bases, according to McGavock, upon which they were to develop their report: 1) there was evidence that a change was needed, 2) at present, fraternities held an undue share of responsibility for social life on campus, 3) there was a disposition among fraternity leaders to improve the situation, 4) because of the lateness in the academic year drastic change was not (Continued on Page Six) Action On Faculty PRES. D. G. MARTIN No member of the class of 1969 will be allowed to pledge a Greek letter social fraternity during the academic year 1965-1966, the faculty decided in its meeting Tuesday. The decision reached concerning pledgingThe text has been cleaned up while preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

is effective only for the coming year, and is one of nine recommendations approved by the faculty in a three-hour session on the fraternity problem. The professors rejected the report of the Faculty Committee on Fra-

Council Advises Use Of ‘Reason’

Student Body President Bill Council submitted the following statement to THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday night:

“The course of action that some of the students have taken thus far concerning the fraternity issue seems to indicate that they haven't yet realized that the best approach to our problems lies in assuming as reasonable an attitude as possible, and not in simply making loud noises.

“Personally, I feel that a demonstration such as the one Wednesday night, regardless of how orderly or well-conducted it may be, can be of no benefit to any cause the students support. Thus far there seems to have been a very distressing lack of good sense shown on the part of students.

“The sooner we free ourselves from the seeming compulsion of responding in the typical Davidson manner by simply ridiculing an idea or a person, and attempt to take a reasonable approach to our problems, the faster we will move toward a solution.

“On behalf of the Student Council, I urge all students voicing concern on this issue to let their good sense rule their emotions in presenting their viewpoints.

“It should be obvious from the statement of President Martin and others that the Faculty and Trustees continue to be receptive to any reasonable, constructive ideas that the students might voice. This issue is very far from a final solution.”

Fraternities And Social Life

1. We recommend that no member of the class of 1969 may pledge himself to a national Greek letter social fraternity during the academic year 1965-66.
2. Summer rushing shall be eliminated, effective immediately.
3. We recommend that the members of the class of 1969 eat in the College Union during the academic year 1965-66.
4. All intramural programs organized around fraternities, independents, social clubs, and units of freshman dormitories shall be worked out by the IMAC for the entire school year. Freshman representatives will be included in the IMAC organization.
5. All Davidson College organizations, including fraternities, are to give official satisfaction to the college that all Davidson students working toward a degree are eligible for initiation. Any group not doing so by September 1, 1966, will be removed from the campus.
6. A Social Life Evaluating Committee is to be established to observe and evaluate the results of the recommended changes. Although the committee is to be appointed for one year, it should be reappointed for one-year periods so long as a need for evaluation of the social life exists.
   (a) This Committee will consist of faculty members, administrative personnel, students (social club, fraternity, independents, and freshmen). It is to be appointed by the President of the College.
   (b) Regular meetings, perhaps monthly, should be scheduled.
   (c) Recommendations should be made to the Faculty whenever the group sees fit to do so.
   (d) The Committee is specifically requested to present a recommendation to the Faculty by the February meeting of 1966 with regard to the wisdom of Sophomore Rush in 1966-67.
   (e) The Committee is asked to state as early as possible what roles are expected of fraternities and other social clubs on the Davidson campus.
7. This Committee is requested to determine the need for an additional administrative official to meet any demands that may be created by this report.
8. A Social Council will plan campus-wide social events.
   (a) Membership of this council will consist of representatives from fraternities, social clubs, independents, and the freshman class. The Student Council will organize this and select its members.
   (b) All students will contribute to the budget through a social fee assessed by the college.
9. The Administration is requested to provide two (2) more houses on Patterson Court for use by Social Clubs. These houses are to be similar to the present fraternity structures, allowing, however, for the correction of any acknowledged deficiencies in the present structures.
   (a) Membership will be open to all students working toward a degree.
   (b) The membership of the club will be limited by the size of the facility.
   (c) If this experiment proves to be successful and a need is seen for additional houses, they should be constructed. However, if at the time of such a decision there is a fraternity house with fewer than 40 members for two (2) consecutive years, they must relinquish their house to the new social club.
   (d) The Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life will be responsible for aiding in the organization of these clubs into the social framework, and for the subsequent reconstruction of the IFC and its responsibilities.
10. Freshmen are to be allowed to have cars on the campus.

Martin Says Trustees May Have Final Word

The faculty committee, under the chairmanship of Dr. W. G. McGavock, had proposed a delayed rush program in which rush would not begin until November 1. Bidding and acceptance of bids were to take place during the Christmas holidays. There was to be no formal pledging until after the end of the first semester. The essence of the proposal was to decrease the pressure upon incoming students while allowing the maintenance of the present system, according to the committee report.

President D. Grier Martin pointed out during a special chapel Wednesday morning for the explanation of the faculty’s action that the final decision remained in the hands of the Board of Trustees when it meets during April. Martin strongly emphasized the additional expenditures that would be incurred in the plan adopted by the faculty. Included among these is the construction of two new houses to serve as eating clubs which would have no restriction upon membership. The immediate cost of effecting the action is estimated to be $100,000. It was further emphasized by Martin that since the funds had to come from somewhere, there would have to be economizing in all areas with possible “adverse effects upon increases in professors’ salaries.” He also pointed out certain other facets of academic life such as the library that may be affected.

The entire plan of the faculty is contained in nine proposals. The object of the action taken is to try to allow for more thorough evaluation of the situation after measures less expensive than those of the original Fraternity Evaluation Committee have been tried, according to McGavock. The faculty's action included two of the nine immediate proposals of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee (no freshman pledging during the academic year 1965-66 and members of the class of 1969 eating in the College Union during the entire freshman year).

Seven of the nine proposals of the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life were accepted by the faculty. The report abolished summer rush, effective immediately, and it instituted an expanded intramural program to include all groups of students. The faculty also directed each organization on campus — including fraternities — to give “official satisfaction” to the college that all students of Davidson are eligible for membership. This is to be done by September 1, 1966, or the groups will be removed from the campus.

It was provided that a Social Life Evaluating Committee be established to make an appraisal of the recommended changes. The committee, to be appointed by the college, is to submit a report to the faculty by the February meeting of 1966 on the “wisdom” of sophomore rush in 1966-67. There will also be a Social Council to aid in planning all phases of social life. The Student Council will organize this group and select the members. The final proposal adopted during the faculty meeting was the provision for allowing freshmen to have cars on campus.

From all indications, there is little reason to believe that there will be further faculty action at least until after the trustees meet, according to President Martin.