FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

Grapplers Faced With Bleak Year

“Bleak—real bleak” is what Coach Charles Parker thinks of the prospects of the upcoming wrestling season, which opens Wednesday at Furman. “It's not that we aren't good enough,” Coach Parker said. “The boys we have are good wrestlers, but we just do not have enough. Right now we don't have anyone in the 137, 145, and 152-pound weight classes, and that’s going to be hard to compensate for.”

As it looks right now, Joe Buffington will open in the 123-pound class, followed by Martin Miller at 130 pounds. Both are returning lettermen. Following the three undecided classes will be sophomore Ronnie Hunt at 160, and letterman Terry O’Hair in the 167-pound class. Captain Eric Nichols returns at 177, and sophomore Lowell Bryan holds heavyweight. The big problem remains, though, to come up with someone to fill each of the other three classes. “As it stands now, we'll be giving away 15 points in every match in those three middle weights. That's going to make it awful rough.”

After Wednesday's match with the Paladins, the grapplers return to open at home against VMI, Saturday, December 11, at 2:00 p.m. North Carolina visits on December 16 in a freshman and varsity match. Upcoming opponents following the Christmas break include Emory, Georgia Tech, and North Carolina State, all here. The Southern Conference Tournament will wind up a schedule of nine matches. It will be held at William and Mary on March 4-5.

Due to the big gap in his present lineup, Coach Parker stated, “We'll take anybody we can get in those three weight classes. Otherwise, we'll have to expect to get beat. We can't spot anyone 15 points and hope to beat them.”

Coach Parker summarized all that he said, predicting, “Unless we find somebody to fill those three places, it's going to be a long winter.”

ANOTHER NEW LOOK? ‘Cats Start Sophomoric Season

Kittens Kill WF Frosh In Opener

The Davidson Wildkittens opened their 1965-66 cage season with a convincing win over the Wake Forest Deaclets, 87-52, Wednesday night. After a slow first half, Davidson stole the show during the second half, outscoring Wake Forest, 46-24, and gaining 61 rebounds overall. The ‘Kittens’ Mike O'Neill took the individual scoring honors with 27 points, while Rocky Crosswhite had 16 rebounds.

Coach Terry Holland said of the game, “We played poorly in the first half but did real well in the second period. I felt that we could have gotten to them sooner, but I was pleased with the outcome. I was particularly pleased with the second unit. They played great for the small amount of time they were in there.”

The Deaclets were sparked by Ed Montgomery and Jim Haynes, who scored 18 and 12 points, respectively. Turning to individual play and prospects for the season, the Wildkittens are sparked by Dave Moser and Wayne Huckle. O'Neill, Crosswhite, Mike Dickens, and Mike Spann also add strength. Moser, hampered by an injured elbow, still handles the ball well and scored eight points.

In Crosswhite and Dickens, the ‘Kittens find some of the height they had last year in Rodney Knowles and Tom Youngdale. At only 6'4", Spann plays well and aggressively under the boards. Together with the fact that he is a good defensive player and a good shot, he will figure significantly in all the games this year. Tony Orsbon, Chris Wood, Al Pearson, and Kim Kimbrough all have good potential and with a little experience could mature into fine basketball players.

In the coming games (Wingate here tomorrow night), the Wildkittens face such teams as Furman.

SEEK TO REBOUND AT HOME ‘Cats To Host Three Foes

Davidson's Wildcats, who tipped-off their 1965-66 campaign with an 87-86 loss to Wake Forest two nights ago, will face three “unknown” foes in the coming week. Coach Lefty Driesell will be sending his legions into frays with Bucknell, Furman, and Marquette. While the Paladins are an old conference opponent, Bucknell and Marquette are new on the ‘Cat slate. According to Driesell, “At this time we know very little about any of these teams, other than what we have read. Our coaches will scout them, and we will look at films, but right now, we are not sure which boys they will play against us.”

The successful Wildcat pilot emphasized the fact that Bucknell would be an unknown quantity: “We can't evaluate them, since it will be their first game. We are trying to talk to other coaches in their area now.” Last year’s Bisons registered an 11-13 mark, best in recent seasons, and hope to raise that record this year. They will exhibit a tough defense, one that was tenth nationally last year.

A trio of 6-6 hoopsters, Matt McMonigle, John Rodgers, and Frank Weirman, will support two-year starter Larry Kozella. Furman comes to the Davidson campus December 7 seeking to improve last season's dismal record. But despite occupying the Southern Conference cellar, the Paladins forced the ‘Cats to the limit in one encounter before losing. Driesell commented, “This will be a vital game, as it is our first conference test. We know that Dan Goolsby and Bane Sarrett are tough boys, while this Webster kid played well against our freshmen last year.” “This kid" is 6-6 Don Webster, who hit 27.2 as a freshman. Goolsby tallied 17 a game for the varsity.

Marquette’s Warriors will invade Charlotte Coliseum Thursday. Their main threat is 6-5 Tom Flynn, a 16.5 scorer who menaces several school records. He has been the Warrior's most valuable player for the past two years. He combines with Paul Carbins to make Marquette a strong board team. Two other starters from last year, Bob Wolf and Roger Buxton, return to lend depth to the Marquette attack. Also brightening the picture are sophomores Brad Luchini and Blanton Simmons, plus junior college transfer Gene Smith. Any of these young players could work into the line-up by game time Thursday.

KNOWLES SCORES AGAINST BOSHART A Bright Spot On A Dark Night

WAKIES WIN 87-86 Wildcats Surprised In Last Seconds

By BOB REID Davidsonian Sports Writer

Bob Leonard racked up ten big points in the last two minutes of play to squeeze Wake Forest by Davidson 87-86 Wednesday night in both teams’ cage season opener. Inexperience plagued the ‘Cats. Davidson played withoutDuke, and Carolina. Carolina should be tough in that they beat the Carolina varsity by four points earlier this year. The ‘Kittens meet Duke once on their home court in Durham and once here, as Furman (once here and once in Greenville). “We have an exciting team. We shoot from the outside because of our size, and we press,” so Coach Holland summed up.

IMAC Basketball

The annual IMAC basketball season tips off tonight at 7:00 p.m. as the Phi Delts meet the Phi Gams and the Pikas go against the Pi Kapps. Although the basketball race was scheduled to begin yesterday, a last-minute practice by the freshmen roundballers caused the postponement of the Beta-ATO game and the Kappa Sig-KA contest.

The Kappa Sigs should be unbeatable this year. Stu Burness is back, and the addition of varsity quitter Scott Sinnock will make the Sigs a good match for some of the teams on the ‘Cats schedule this year. As for also-rans, there should be a host of them. The ATO’s loom as pre-season runners-up choice. They will be closely followed by the Sigma Chis and possibly the Delts. Generally, not counting the battle for first, which is no battle at all, the league is balanced. Second place is shaping up to possibly be a big fight.

Unless the Fraternity Evaluation Committee changes their ruling on freshmen eligibility, no new faces will dot the fraternity scene, and any chances of upsets or dark horses are therefore somewhat lessened. Under the present rule, freshmen, even pledges second semester, will not be able to play with their fraternities and must play with their dorm teams if they plan to participate in intramurals.

Handball is also beginning, to the interest of practically no one. Another long, boring season is forecast. As to a favorite, the SAE’s could have the inside track, although the SPE’s and Delts generally field strong teams.

Foglemen Finish Second In SC

Fogleman’s soccer team placed second in the Southern Conference Tournament held here November 18-20, as West Virginia went undefeated in winning the conference title. The Wildcats defeated Furman, 3-1, William and Mary, 2-0, and George Washington, 2-1. With both Davidson and West Virginia 3-0 after the first three rounds of play, the two were pitted against each other to determine the championship, and the Mountaineers were victorious, 3-1.

Final standings placed West Virginia on top, Davidson second, George Washington third with a 2-2 record, Furman fourth with a 1-3 record, and William and Mary last with a perfect 0-4 mark. In addition to second place honors, Davidson also placed Bruce Hyslop, Lee Fanning, and Jurgen Schroder on the all-conference team.

In looking back over the season, Fogleman said that he was pleased with the 6-4 season record, and the 9-5 overall record, which were somewhat better than expected, due to a definite height disadvantage in every contest. Six seniors and two Richardson scholars were retired at a banquet held Tuesday night. George Brown was elected captain for the 1966 season. He replaces Glen Hanes at the top spot.

Swimming and wrestling are being held off until a ruling is made on the status of freshman athletes. For this reason, they are not being played in the hectic days between Thanksgiving and Christmas as usual.

YOUR FRIEND FOR LIFE

He's helping young men plan today for a better life tomorrow. He's your Southwestern Life College Representative — and he has specially-designed life insurance policies to fit your own individual needs today, tomorrow, and in the years ahead. They're new-idea plans created by one of the nation's leading life insurance companies especially for, and only for, college seniors and graduate students pursuing professional degrees. He's an easy person to talk with, and what he has to tell you about these policies can make a lot of difference in your future. Talk with him when he calls — give him an opportunity to be “Your Friend for Life.” There's never any obligation.

201 S. Tryon — 376-8588

No. Name
10 Dick Snyder
30 Ronnie Stone
24 Phil Squier
43 Rodney Knowles
22 Bobby Lane
11 Tom Youngdale
12 Cecil Clifton
14 Pinky Hatcher
20 George Leight

Davidson's lineup included three sophomore starters. The game was an exciting battle that was not decided until the final buzzer. Leonard sank for two in the first seconds of play to begin the scoring. For most of the first half, neither team could gain a sizable lead. Then with minutes left in the half, the ‘Cats exploded into action. Knowles led off the blitz with a successful layup. Taking their cue from Knowles, the ‘Cats popped in ten quick ones to take a 43-36 lead.

The second half saw a determined Deacon team cut into the Cat lead. With seven minutes to play, Leonard pumped in eight points to slice the margin to a one-point lead. Then with only 14 seconds remaining, the ‘Cats fouled Leonard, putting him in a one-and-one situation. Leonard sank both shots to give the Deacons the lead for the only time in the last half. With 11 seconds to play, Davidson guard Phil Squier passed to Knowles. The 6'9" sophomore turned, jumped, and shot. He missed, and Wake Forest's Long hauled down the rebound to clinch the victory.

Long topped the scoring chart with 34 points to his credit. All-Atlantic Coast Conference Leonard and ‘Cat Sophomore Knowles each scored 33 points, while Davidson's Dick Snyder connected for 25. Knowles grabbed 14 rebounds for the game high.

TASTEE

CHICKEN — Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches
Daily Food Specials
TRY OUR TASTEE SUB FIT FOR A KING
Small and Large PIZZAS
50 FLAVORS OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS
Eat Under Tropical Palms

TASTEE