STUDENTS BOMBARD ROTC TRAINING (See Page Two) VOL. LIV.

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1965

NETTERS TAKE SC TOURNEY (See Page Five) NUMBER TWENTY-EIGHT

Nine Tapped For Membership Into Leadership Fraternity

Seven students, one faculty member, and an ex-Superior Court Judge were elected to membership in Omicron Delta Kappa national leadership
fraternity at chapel Thursday. Membership in the fraternity is the highest leadership honor at Davidson, and based on excellence in
the fields of scholarship, athletics, social and religious activities, publications, and cultural activities. The purpose of ODK is to recognize
men who have attained eminence in two or more of these fields and to inspire others to strive for similar
attainments.

After an introductory speech on the topic of leadership, by former Judge L. Richardson Preyer, seniors Bob Chumbley and Paul
Reichardt and juniors Bill Council, David Powell, Jim Stokes, Paul Simpson, and Billy Clark were tapped into membership. Dr. Daniel
D. Rhodes, Professor of Religion and Philosophy at Davidson, and Preyer himself were also tapped.

Chumbley is a French major from Covington, Va. He holds a Dana Scholarship and Woodrow Wilson Fellowship and is a
member of Phi Beta Kappa. Chumbley has been active in Vagabond theatrical productions and has been tapped into Alpha Psi
Omega, honorary dramatics fraternity.

Reichardt is also a Dana scholar and is president of Sigma Chi. A chemistry major, he is a member of
Gamma Sigma Upsilon honorary chemistry fraternity and Phi Eta Sigma freshman honor society. He is also a member of Phi
Beta Kappa.

Council is now president of the Student Body, and a top-ranked player on the tennis team. He is from Washington,
D. C. and a member of Phi Delta Theta. He has served previously as vice-president of the Student Council.

A history major, Powell hails from Little Rock, Ark. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and has served
as a member of the Student Council. Powell has also served as a cheerleader, and he has been elected to
the office of Freshman Advisor for the coming school year.

Stokes is from Winter Park, Fla. and is chairman of the Honor Court and former president of Alpha Tau Omega.
He is a member of the swimming team. A history major, Stokes holds a Curtis P. Johnson scholarship.

Simpson is a member of Beta Theta Pi who lives in Nashville, Tenn. A member of the Freshman Council four
years ago, Simpson also holds the highest grade average in his class. He is chairman of the Union Open End
committee, a member of Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity, and is studying pre-medicine.

Clark is a pre-med major, holding a McConnell scholarship in addition to a National Merit scholarship. From Charlotte, Clark is
president of the rising senior class and a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Kappa Sigma.

Drinking Rule Change Fails In Close Student Body Vote

“WAY TO GROW”

Preyer Keynotes ODK

By LINDSAY DAVIS Davidsonian Feature Writer

The spring tapping of ODK, national leadership fraternity, was keynoted by an address by L. Richardson Preyer, former Superior Court
and District judge and ex-candidate for governor of North Carolina.

Preyer began by speaking of his first lessons in leadership, during his first year at Harvard law school. He remembered
his first day, when the dean addressed the new class. “One-half of what you learn here will be wrong. The
problem is deciding which half that is.” This, reported Preyer, taught him a lesson in humility, as he recalled Mark
Twain's words, “It isn’t what you don't know, but what you do that isn't so, that hurts you.”

He then talked of a testimonial banquet for “a man named Williston, about whom you'll hear a lot if you
go into law.” During the course of the evening, several important people sang the praises of Mr. Williston. Finally, the
old man rose and gave a short answer “Never be afraid,” he said, “to accept responsibility. It is the only
way to grow.”

Preyer then pondered the question of what the world will be like at the turn of the 21st century. “We
must realize how fast things have been changing in this century and how fast they will change in the future,”
he reminded. He quoted from Fortune magazine that this country is a half-finished society. “We have developed an immense material
empire, but are lacking in quality.”

“The problem,” Preyer remarked, “will be the pollution of water and scenery. We must find some way to control the
waste of these resources.”

62 Percent For Repeal In Thursday Balloting

The proposed amendment to remove the drinking rule from the Constitution failed to receive the necessary two-thirds majority in the
referendum on Thursday. The vote was 500-297 in favor of repeal.

This action by the students culminated several weeks of agitation led by Honor Court member Arnie Goodstein, who had obtained
some 300 signatures on a petition which termed the drinking rule “anachronistic” and called for its repeal. Goodstein was disappointed
that the amendment did not pass, but was encouraged by the fact that a majority of students favored the amendment.
He termed the result evidence of a “pocket of dissent.”

“I see it as a mandate,” he said, “to continue opposing this rule. Having seen the wishes of the students,
it is now up to a student organization."

Council Stands In Opposition To Amendment; Opinion Varies

Student Council discussed the Goodstein petition at its Monday meeting and voted 12-5 to oppose that proposal. Discussion of this
controversial issue began last week with David Powell’s motion “to endorse the Goodstein petition.” The motion was tabled until Monday
night's meeting. Will Jackson countered with his reminder that should the petition

Lilly Plans

By HEYWARD CARTER Davidsonian Feature Editor

For 39 years Davidson has been the home of a mind so full of names, references, cross-references, and a myriad
of literary facts that it at times seems to belong to the reincarnation of Samuel Taylor Coleridge. Needless to say,
this erudite mind belongs to Dr. Henry T. Lilly, Professor of English.

AFTER 39 YEARS

Lilly has proven himself many times to be not only a scholar and an educator, but also a man who
can communicate with his students by coming down to their level and inspiring in them at least a part of
the keen interest he feels in nearly any subject. Rather than teach something, Lilly tries to explain as would one
student to another because, “You know, boys, we're all learning together.”

He has been learning since his graduation from Davidson in 1918, prior to which he had attended Vanderbilt for two
years. After an eighteen-month tour of duty as a sergeant in Brittany during WWI, Lilly returned to America where he
got his MA from Princeton in 1920. Having taught two years at McCallie School, he again went abroad where he
studied at the University of Vienna in 1922-1923, and at Oxford in 1923-1924. Finally, after two years teaching at Presbyterian
College, Lilly returned to Davidson in 1926 where he has remained until the present. Since 1926 he has returned abroad
in 1956 on a trip to Great Britain, and in 1958 on sabbatical to the Near East and Western Europe.

Now Lilly claims the time has come for him to retire “before the school fires me.” Actually he is retiring
because, “It will give me more time to study and to read.”In trying to teach I haven't had time to
do these things." Lilly is not known to have ever referred to himself as teaching — "Boys, you know I
only try to teach — we're just the hired help around here." His opinion on the subject with which he
is so familiar, literature, is that it should "broaden your tolerance, it should deepen your sympathies, and it should heighten
your appreciations. I really enjoy trying to show — 'Look, boys, this material is really worthwhile!'" As to Davidson and
the many years he has spent here he says, "I really love Davidson and I love the college. I have
loved staying here and the college has been tremendously good to me. These 39 years have been very happy years
in which I have enjoyed trying to teach." In parting, Lilly would like to leave all of his students with
these lines which he has followed for many years: "In essentials, unity In non-essentials, liberty In all things, charity."

be adopted, "the faculty would no longer be bound by the present trunk rule: thus, liquor could not be legally
(or safely) kept in one’s trunk." During the discussion after the motion was taken from the table, President Bill Council
stated, "If this referendum eliminates all student enforcement of the rule, the faculty and President D. Grier Martin will strongly
enforce it."

OPINION VARIES

"I’m not sure that the majority of students want a wet campus," explained Lee Fanning. Offering a slightly different interpretation,
Paul Marion said, "Maybe some favor drinking in the fraternity houses, but not in the dorms." Opposing any such endorsement,
Chuck Matthews commented, "Students will lose the security of having a trunk storage space if this petition is approved." In
support of the petition David Walker affirmed, "It's our constitution; we can change it..." However, he went on to say
that many of the professors he had talked to "did not favor a change." Even if passed by the students,
he foresaw "dissenting alumni pressure to make this a safe place for their sons." Also favoring the petition, Powell added
that the penalty of "categorical suspension for drinking" should be altered.

NO ENDORSEMENT

By a vote of 4-12 (with one abstention) the council failed to endorse the measure. Fred Sackett then offered a
motion to oppose the petition and then to issue a report to explain the council’s reason for such action. He
said, "The reason involved is not fear of faculty, but concern for students." Council agreed with Sackett and added, "The
faculty is honestly trying to co-operate with us in this problem." Walker then replied strongly, "We should admit that we're
just scared of faculty opposition." An amendment by Bob Bryan, requiring the actual vote to be included in the council's
statement of opposition, passed easily. After the 12-5 vote on Sackett's motion Jackson was appointed as head of the committee
to draw up the formal council statement and issue it to the student body before Wednesday.

FRESHMAN RULES

In other major business Powell who is next year’s Freshman Advisor presented a plan for altering the Freshman Court and
freshman regulations. "Since these institutions are a farce now, let's make a lot of fun out of it next fall;
maybe the court could have wigs and robes. Anyway, the point is let's take the 'must' out of freshman regulations."
Powell's revamped statement, "Advice to Freshmen, or Initial Steps to Becoming a Davidson Gentleman," included seven suggested members for the
Freshman Court: Robert Lake, Hoyle Rymer, Basil Hicks, Charles Goodykoontz, B. A. Aiken, Johnny Walker, and Andy Clay. Following a
short general discussion, a consensus seemed to agree on "compulsory beanies" but left such things as name cards and attendance
at athletic events on a voluntary basis. No definite action was taken.

NSA REPORT

Matthews and John Thomas reported on last weekend's National Student Association assembly at the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill. Goodstein, the third Davidson representative, was elected treasurer for the Virginia-Carolinas district. Matthews also announced that George Brown, a
Davidson sophomore, has won an NSA scholarship to attend a study program in Japan this summer. Brown is one of
only six students in the United States to win such an honor.

ATHLETIC REPORT

David Meschan reported on the recent meeting of the Athletic Council. He described various improvements that might be made, including
all-weather tennis courts and more handball courts. He also mentioned that President Martin had voiced his opinion that participation in
professional athletics was "detrimental to the image of the school" and that it let down the baseball team. Furthermore, he
called for students to voice their opinions on this subject in the near future.

NOTICE

Next week’s will be the last issue of the 1964-65 DAVIDSONIAN. Because of limited space, news items should be submitted
as early as possible during the week. We regret that Letters to the Editor submitted after 12 noon on Tuesday,
May 18, cannot be published in next week’s issue.

Goodstein formally presented the petition to the Student Council on May 3. At that time, a date for the referendum
was tentatively set, but the council postponed taking a stand on the proposal until its Monday night meeting when it
voted 12-5 to oppose the change.

CRITICAL

Goodstein was bitterly critical of the council’s position at a voluntary chapel on Wednesday where he appeared with Hugh Allen,
who opposed the amendment. Allen is the former Honor Court chairman. "To want to clear up a few points," Goodstein
told the 200 students present. "The real issue is not a dry or wet campus. I'm concerned about the hypocrisy
of the situation. Thirty people (Honor Court members and Student Council members) are 'honor bound' while the rest of you
are only 'duty bound' to report drinking violations." He termed the Student Council statement, which explained its opposition to the
amendment, "trash... the worst thing I've ever seen in print. The Student Council," he charged, "decided this out of fear
and hypocrisy."

NOT THE ISSUE

Although the faculty regulation against drinking would still stand, Goodstein acknowledged that a change in the student body rules "could
mean more drinking, but that is not the main issue." "The only thing that can come out of this (passage
of the amendment)," he concluded, "is a stronger honor system." Allen, who followed Goodstein, said he didn't believe that all
the arguments advanced for passage of the amendment were valid.

OTHER SCHOOLS

In response to those who pointed to other schools which have wet campuses, Allen said, "It is false to assume
that a wet campus is necessary to intellectual achievement." "We cannot," he continued, "ignore the possibility that a minority of
the students will abuse privileges which would come with passage of the amendment." He explained that he did not believe
the proposed amendment was the right way to go.

(Continued on Page Six)

(Staff Photo by Smith)

OPEN END PARTICIPANTS DEBATE DRINKING RULE

Hugh Allen, David Powell, Will Jackson and Arnie Goodstein (l-r)
