WOOTEN RENEWS ATTACK ON ROTC (See Page Two)

VOL. LV

The Davidsonian

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1965

CAGERS READYING FOR ‘65-66 SEASON (See Page Five)

NUMBER SEVEN

Rush Starts Tomorrow With Freshmen Visiting All Houses

By GREY PASH
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Tomorrow marks the first day of Davidson’s delayed rush system, directed by the Interfraternity Council. Johnny Jeter, IFC Rush Committee
chairman, pointed up the importance of this rush period. “I think that it is very important,” he said, “that we
do our best to make this new rush program a success. The fraternity situation is far from settled with the
faculty and administration, and for the benefit of the system we have to make this rush work.”

A total of 271 freshmen will be visiting on Patterson Court for the first time tomorrow. In order to enable
the fraternities to have organized parties, the idea of an open house has been abandoned in favor of freshmen being
divided alphabetically into 12 groups of approximately 25 each. Basically, this is how the rush schedule will go: Group I
will begin at the Kappa Alpha house at 2 p.m., at 2:30 it will move to the Beta Theta Pi
house; it will have its sixth and final party of the first day’s rush at 4:30 at the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon house. Group II will begin at the Beta Theta Pi house at 2 p.m. and continue in the same
fashion, having the last party at the Phi Delta Theta house.

IFC Hears Dirty Rush Charges

Two charges of “dirty rush” and a decision on publication of a rush brochure were considered by the Interfraternity Council
at its meeting Monday night. The first charge was that a number of the fraternity’s members were wearing name tags
at several homecoming activities including the football game. This specific event was not construed to be an actual violation of
the rush regulations, but the fraternity was warned that name tags should not be worn on such occasions.

The most serious charge against the fraternity was that a member invited a freshman to eat with a group of
fraternity men in Charlotte on the Saturday night of Homecoming weekend. The freshman declined that offer, and he was therefore
not involved in the charge. The fraternity was found guilty of this charge and will be fined $50. Al Carson
and Dave Perrin reported that rather than publishing a rush brochure, which they felt was unnecessary at this time, the
IFC would print pocket name tags for rushees. The back of these cards will include a rush schedule and a
small amount of pertinent information.

The council also considered several topics introduced by Assistant Dean of Students Tom Covington. It voted in favor of Tuesday
afternoon dorm rush but opposed the delay of acceptance of bids until after the Christmas holidays.

Groups II-XII will begin and proceed in a similar manner around the court. On Sunday, Nov. 7, Group I will
begin at the Phi Delta Theta house, Group II at the Kappa Sigma house, etc., with each group visiting the
six fraternities on the half of the court that it did not visit the previous week. Jeter urged that freshmen
be at the right house at the right time, especially for the 2 p.m. parties. Fraternity men will not pick
up freshmen at their dorm or escort them from house to house as has been done in the past.

Several changes in party schedules and rush regulations were made this week. The Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social
Life met Tuesday afternoon and approved several recommendations made by the IFC. The first was approving Tuesday afternoon dorm rush
from 3 p.m. until 5 p.m. on Nov. 2, 9, 16, and 23. The second change was the moving of
three Saturday rush parties to Sunday. Parties previously scheduled for Nov. 6 will now be held on Nov. 7, Dec.
4 on Dec. 5, and Dec. 11 on Dec. 12. Parties will be held on Oct. 30 and Nov. 13
as previously scheduled. In conjunction with this change, parties on Oct. 30 will be from 2 p.m. until 5 p.m.
(six 30-minute parties), as will the parties on Nov. 7. The faculty confirmed the IFC clarification of parties on Freshman
Parents Day on Nov. 13. There will be no dates given as these will be open house parties from 4
p.m. until 6 p.m. with freshman parents invited to attend. But the IFC has set a limit of 40 minutes
to the amount of time a rushee may spend at any one house on that date.

Finally, the faculty committee concurred with the Interfraternity Council in rejecting the Freshman Council proposal to delay acceptance of bids
until shortly after return from Christmas holidays. Another exception is that beginning with the first rush party, freshmen and fraternity
men (pledge, member, alumnus) may discuss fraternities on campus whenever it is legal for a rushee and a fraternity man
to talk. This of course does not apply to the periods of silence which are: (1) at the end of
each open house or rush party until 8 a.m. on the following Monday morning, (2) from Nov. 19 to Nov.
29, (3) Dec. 17, 1965 at 5 p.m. to Jan. 3, 1966 at 8 a.m. During these periods of silence,
no fraternity man is allowed to influence a rushee in any manner.

Jeter, speaking for the IFC, said “This program is new to us; and we will be the first to admit
it. There is room for improvement, but a lot of thought has gone into this rushing system and we think
that with everyone's help, it will be a success.”

Trustees Recommend Study On Drinking Rule Change

Faculty Amendments Will Remain in Effect

The Board of Trustees recommended further study by the joint faculty-trustee committee on the new drinking rule which was approved
by the faculty at its meeting earlier this month. Thus, the new regulation which permits Davidson students to consume alcoholic
beverages at any time away from the college campus remains in effect.

Meeting on campus last Friday, the Trustees reviewed the measures adopted by the faculty on Oct. 12 after recommendations were
made by the joint Faculty-Trustee Committee on Alcoholic Beverage Policy. The committee recommended amendments which would have prohibited drinking at
any event in which students were participating as representatives of the college. Because the faculty action did not conform to
the committee suggestions, the amendments were subject to review by the Trustees. After considering the matter, the board recommended that
the joint committee study the matter further and pointed out several implications in particular with which it was concerned. Several
questions were raised about the college's liability for accidents involving students who should be drinking at off-campus college functions. Other
questions were raised by Trustees concerning the implications of the

Trustees Abolish Oath, Institute New Policy

By FRANK FLEMING
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Board of Trustees voted last Friday to abolish the long-standing faculty oath that had prevented all non-Protestants from attaining
the rank of full professor. In its place, the administration and Trustees now have the authority simply to “satisfy themselves”
that a prospective faculty member is a Christian before hiring him.

Since the real vote on the vow issue had been taken in April, the Friday vote was simply a confirmatory
formality. All Trustee changes require two separate votes. The old oath, given to all who earned “tenure” (full professorship), was
a public confession affirming Christ as “Lord and Savior” and accepting the Old and the New Testaments of the Bible
as the “word of God, the only infallible rule of faith and practice.” The new oath requires only that the
professor profess Christianity. Thus for the first time faculty positions are open to Roman Catholics. Also, this allows professors who
had opposed the oath to gain promotion to full professorships.

The Trustees conferred an honorary doctor of laws degree on Dr. William Rule III, Class of ’32. Rule has served
as a Presbyterian medical missionary in the Congo for the past 25 years. President D. Grier Martin presented progress reports
on the Ford Foundation drive and on the Davidson Self-Study Program. The latter is part of the evaluation required by
the Southern Association of Colleges and Universities.

The final business concerned revising the charter by-laws of the Trustees. According to Fred Sackett, assistant to the president, this
long-range job “might take all year. It involves rewording some parts and bringing other sections up to date.”New rule involving
Social Council and athletic events. “When the proposal was presented, the many sides of the situation had not been investigated
thoroughly enough,” stated one spokesman after the meeting. “The Trustees felt that the joint committee should reconsider the matter in
light of some additional information,” he added. Under the new ruling, students are still prohibited from consuming or being under
the influence of an alcoholic beverage while within the town limits of Davidson or on the campus of the college,
which includes the lake campus. Otherwise, students will be bound by the “gentlemanly conduct” clause of the faculty regulations at
any time. The amendment also explicitly permits the storing of alcoholic beverages in the locked trunks of student automobiles. Also,
the regulation concerning possession and consumption within the town does not apply to a student while in the home of
his immediate family.

(Staff Photo by Thel)
HOMECOMING QUEEN DELORES DICKSON (RIGHT) RECEIVES ROSES FROM MISS NORTH CAROLINA (LEFT). In center is runner-up Mary Gavin.

FOR HOMECOMING
Alumni Return In Mass
By ROBBIE HOOKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The return of an unusually large number of alumni highlighted last weekend’s Homecoming activities, hailed a success by administration and
student leaders alike. According to William L. Bondurant, director of alumni activities, about 2,900 people, including alumni and their families
and students and their dates, took part in Saturday’s pre-game barbecue. Bondurant said that the number of returning grads was
the largest in recent years, an indication of the “strong, positive alumni reaction” to the Challenge Fund campaign. “I am
very impressed and very pleased with the alumni’s response,” he said. “So many are anxious to help the College. The
alumni are no doubt one of the strongest assets we have.”

In addition to the many alumni, nearly 700 girls converged on Davidson for the long weekend. Most of them stayed
in Belk and Richardson dorms under the surveillance of Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, and Mrs. Harmon Gillespie, her
assistant. 630 dates, the majority of them from Queens, Salem, UNC-G, and Converse, were housed on the campus. The remainder
stayed in homes in town. It was a typical Homecoming weekend, according to Mrs. Nicholls. Only faulty plumbing on one
side of Belk and a marked increase of illnesses among the girls disrupted the hectic routine. Mrs. Gillespie did note
one difference, however. “This year all the girls were real trim,” she said. “I don’t believe I saw a fat
one all weekend.”

The Social Council, under the direction of Jan Campbell, spearheaded the social activities. The council itself handled Saturday morning’s early
breakfast, the after-game cook-out, and the concert and combo party Saturday night. The Union Social Committee sponsored Friday’s Heaven and
Hell Dance, Artist Series handled Friday’s concert, and the Alumni Association sponsored the barbecue Saturday. The Interfraternity Council handled the
queen and display competition. Mrs. Brady Dickson, sponsored by Pi Kappa Alpha, was crowned Homecoming Queen by Penny Clark, Miss
North Carolina. Pi Kappa Phi won the display contest. “From the comments I’ve gotten, I thought it was a very
successful weekend,” said Campbell. “The council would like to hear opinions and suggestions for improvement.” Richard C. Burts, dean of
students, echoed Campbell’s enthusiasm in saying, “I think there is a general happiness over the event. It certainly brought a
lot of men back. I guess the game was about the only thing that went wrong.”

Freshmen Pronounce Weekend A Success
By CRAIG WILSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

For the first time in years, a Davidson Freshman Class has faced Homecoming without fraternities to arrange dates, parties, or
other entertainment. THE DAVIDSONIAN recently polled third floor Watts to get a profile of freshman reaction to the weekend. Barry
MacLean stated, “The entertainment was outstanding. I think anyone who asked his girl here would have had a good time
anyway — the Social Council just made it that much better. My date and several others I talked to were
very impressed with the activities.” Added Rick Flinn, “The entertainment had its good moments — there was something to satisfy
anyone’s tastes. The weekend was well-planned in that there was something to do most of the time. The opportunity for
a good time was there — it all depended on the individual’s desire to enjoy it.” “Homecoming didn’t seem much
of a holiday since most of us didn’t get off campus. Since there are only a few cars in our
class, most of us have been on campus all year. All-in-all, though, I thought it was a very successful affair,”
Kim Nelson remarked. Mike Spann declared, “The eating set-up was weak, I thought. When you ask a girl here, you
want to be able to treat her to better meals than buffets and picnics.” But would freshmen have been better
off in fraternities? Most members of the Class of ‘69 admit that, never having been in fraternities, all they can
do is speculate. On this subject, Dean Cromartie said, “I think if we had been in fraternities, most of the
stags would have had dates. That way more people could have had a good time.” Frank Spence remarked, “In many
cases I suspect our parties were better than the off-campus ones. Of course ours were larger, and at a fraternity
party you can be with just your friends.”

(Staff Photo by Purvis)
THEOBALD SPEAKS IN WEDNESDAY NIGHT DEBATE. Rousseas, in background, gathers notes.

Theobald Scrutinizes Problem Of Cybernation, Unemployment
By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Guaranteed income? Cybernated society? Unemployables? It seemed strange to hear a man who so much resembled Kipling reincarnate talk in
such terms, but these were the problems that Robert Theobald, noted British socio-economist, dealt with during his two-day stay here,
from Tuesday until yesterday. His primary thesis was that the increasing automation of our society will soon make most jobs
of today obsolete. Many people will simply be incapable of doing any of the jobs that remain. This problem can
best be handled by means of a constitutional amendment guaranteeing everyone in the country a minimum income. “We have an
increasing level of unemployability,” claimed Theobald. “The great problem we have is that we are moving into what I’ll call
a reverse leisure society. The point is that in the future the people who can use leisure won’t have much
and those who can’t handle it will have a great deal.” The only acceptable solution is a guaranteed income, he
felt. The economist recognized that there are many dangers inherent in this course of action. However, “The question of incentive
is largely illusory.” Theobald asked, “Is man someone who has to be whipped into doing something or is he capable
of rising to a challenge?” He apparently believed the latter. He also advocated giving the present middle class a higher
guaranteed income than that given to the laborers, since the effects of cybernation are even greater on the middle class,
and “we cannot allow either socially or politically for these people to drop to the bottom of the ladder.” A
basic change in real values is necessary to implement the new society that Theobald proposes. “We need,” he said, “much
less competition and much more cooperation.” He added, “The very peculiar aspect of today’s world is that for the first
time we must start taking seriously what Christianity has been saying for centuries.” Wednesday night things really got interesting. Theobald
engaged in a debate with Dr. Stephen W. Rousseas of New York University, and the fur began to fly. Dr.
Rousseas, it seems, disagrees rather strongly with Mr. Theobald. At least one had that impression when Rousseas said, “I consider
Mr. Theobald a walking anachronism,” or later, speaking of the guaranteed income, “The naivete of this proposal is beyond comment.”
It turned out to be a really fascinating dialogue, although both gentlemen spent a good deal of time assuring one
another that they really didn’t understand each other’s terms or hoping that now they were at a point where they
could begin debate. Rousseas’ main differences with Theobald were in his evaluation of the significance of automation. He took the
position that “there is no scientific reason to come to any conclusion that automation is a serious threat. Whether or
not it becomes a threat for the future is a political problem.” In addition, he predicted inflation and an unfavorable
balance of payment as a result of the guaranteed income.
