Che Bauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Toop Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

IRVINE WELLING Business Manager

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Demure Thinking

Davidson’s Student Council placed prudence above facile possibilities this week in deciding to lay aside the ballots on the question of repeal of the Student Body Regulations. The details of the referendum were miserably handled in every instance, except in the final decision not to count the ballots. After unanimously approving Paul Marion's motion last week that the referendum be held, the council held no meeting to read the question to the student body. Instead, a general announcement by the college chaplain that voting on the regulations would be conducted was made in Thursday chapel last week. Yet, last spring, on matters hardly as important or consequential as the repeal of the regulations, proposals were read in a closed student body meeting, and ballots were secured at polling places manned by council members. Ballots in this week’s voting were arbitrarily placed in the pew racks of the auditorium before chapel. Many students erroneously thought they were taking part in an informal opinion poll—previous polls have been taken in a similarly irregular manner, despite constant admonitions that the Tuesday vote was termed an official referendum. Instead of listening to his eminence, Ludwig von Mises, during the assembly program, many students spent the time discussing and marking the ballots. Then, after von Mises ran overtime, John Burks attempted a sensible, yet hurried, explanation of the question to no avail. Several students scooped up extra ballots and stuffed them into council members’ hands which were used instead of ballot boxes at the door. After waiting a good 30 hours before meeting to tabulate the ballots, the council wisely reconsidered their actions and decided on proper procedure before they even counted the votes. We are assured now that the council wishes to be prudent in its affairs. Although it is unfortunate that the irregularities during the past week did occur, the indiscreet actions of the council should serve to remind each member to think much more demurely in the future concerning such matters of import.

Associate Editors
RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON

Assistant Editors
BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS

Managing Editors
LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION

Assistant Managing Editor
TOM COOK

News Editor
SAM BOYTE

Feature Editor
HEYWARD CARTER

Copy Editor
CHRIS HAWK

Assistant Copy Editors
BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER

Sports Editor
BILL BRIGGS

Assistant Sports Editor
ARCH McCALLUM

Photography Editor
TOM THEL

Photographer
CHIP PURVIS

Cartoonists
LOU HILL
JACK LINGLE

Assistant Business Manager
BOB CAMERON

Advertising Manager
BILL WATSON

Circulation Manager
JOHN VISER

Contributors this week: Robbie Hooker, Ron Snow, John Bailey, Bob Travers, Bruce Weihe, John Williams, Grey Pash, Bob Reid, Don Swell, Jim Marrow, Cliff Duke, Bob Schofield, Charles McEwen, Dick Richards, Allen Webb and Lindsay Davis.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Senior McGuire Points Up, ‘Good Aspects’ Of ROTC

Dear Editor:

The ROTC Department has been the object of much criticism both this year and last. It appears to me that in all fairness to the ROTC program it should be pointed out that there are many good aspects of this program which deserve merit. I would like to point out a few of these aspects.

Let us start with those students who take only the required two years, hoping then to shut the army out of their lives. How great a damage is done to the lives of these students during this two-year period? A total of two hours each Tuesday afternoon, a little time to study before reviews and writs, and a rifle cleaning every few weeks. This is damaging? It never seems to occur to many students that these two years of training might actually be doing them some good. Similar to the child that screams upon having to take castor oil, only to find out later that it has done him some good, these students may some day be thankful. This is especially true in light of the present world situation. These men may find it impossible to shut the army out of their lives. And besides the military aspect, this training does broaden one’s experiences and thus contributes to his overall education, if not to his academic education.

Now let us turn our attention to those men who take the advanced program. It seems safe to assume that these men see some value in the program or they would not be taking it. To some it is an extra $40 a month, to others a way to fulfill one’s obligation to his country as an officer instead of a private, and to still others a temporary job after college or even a career. Many of these men would not be taking advantage of whatever value they have seen in advanced ROTC if they had not first been required to see what was offered. In this case, then, the major criticism of the ROTC program, a two-year requirement, has been a valuable boon to these men.

Admittedly the ROTC program is not perfect, but there aren't many things in this world that are. It is valuable to those men who take the advanced program, and I feel not overly damaging or degrading to those students who take only the required two years. This year there have been many changes (check last week’s DAVIDSONIAN) which make the first two years more enjoyable and beneficial to all students, and I would not be surprised if there were more changes in the future. In conclusion, it seems that the ROTC program is not only justified but a very worthwhile organization. Those criticizing the program as a whole should look beyond their own selves and see the good that is there.

W. B. McGuire, Jr.
Davidson College

Hyslop

Dear Editor:

THE DAVIDSONIAN certainly has been doing an excellent job as the news and editorial voice of the student body. However, we were disappointed in your recent coverage of the installation of a new phone booth in the basement of the Union. This unexpected, yet important, change in our daily lives has been given only cursory treatment: the article was hidden on the last page, and the accompanying photograph was far from adequate. Admittedly, we were touched by Feature Writer Varner’s sentimental attachment to “his” booth, but we might have participated more fully in the event if your writer had been less personally involved. We cannot help but think that your negligence with respect to this article reflects a dangerous trend in our newspaper. Today, our telephone booth is pushed to page six; tomorrow, we will find such insignificant and unrelated topics as student peace movements, the arts, books, cybernation, U. S. foreign policy, and civil rights polluting our paper. It is time to stop and take a good look at our values. When we get new candy machines at the union, let’s see if we can make page one with some catchy headline. Like maybe “Union Gets New Candy Machines.”

Bruce Hyslop
Pete Gaskell
Davidson College

By ANTHONY S. ABBOTT

A Review

On Friday, Dec. 3, Volume I, Number 1, of The Miscellany: A Davidson Review was distributed on the Davidson campus. There were no speeches, no cheers, no crowds; yet this was an event of some importance for the college community, the first fruits of the efforts of junior editor Charles E. Vick and his staff to revive an interest in serious writing at Davidson. Simple and unpretentious in design, handsome in format, the first issue of The Miscellany contains an interesting variety of material: nine poems, two short stories, two pieces of translation, a biographical sketch, and two critical reviews. The contributors vary in age, background, and experience, representing the faculty, the alumni, the student body, and the public at large. Though both faculty and alumni are well represented, the only member of the present student body with a piece in this issue is senior Bill Trotter; and this is the most disappointing feature of the magazine. There is no question that The Miscellany should serve as a literary outlet for faculty, alumni, and young professional writers; at the same time it is crucial that the best student writing at Davidson be well represented. Whatever the causes of the

A Right Way To Regulate

The Federal Reserve Board, in permitting the nation’s Federal Reserve banks to raise their discount rate from 4 percent to 4.5 percent, has taken a strong step to prevent the current long period of prosperity from becoming an uncontrollable inflationary boom. In calling the shots as it sees them, the board has undoubtedly irritated the more political judgment of the administration. The board’s seven members constitute one of the most professional groups in Washington. Its chairman, William McChesney Martin, Jr., has earned the respect of the nation's business leaders because of his cool-headed and unpolitical approach to the Fed's job of regulating the nation’s money supply and credit availability in the best interests of stable growth. Higher interest rates are never welcomed by businessmen. They generally make it necessary to

Bah, humbug! Deck the halls. MerryChristmas. So, what? Christ...! The Davidson sophomore runs around Douglas Airport Friday afternoon trying to find a seat on a plane to Atlanta. He had reservations with Eastern for Saturday, but somehow he couldn't stand to wait an extra day. The cool, sockless Independent trims the tree in the Union lounge Tuesday. There's going to be a party tomorrow night and there's no Jolly Zack to supervise the decorations for the Seesaw company this year. The rusty storefronts on Main Street brighten up for one time. Blinking lights, modern metallic trees, green and red paint the Christmas-time facade to make the envied student look twice at what's around him, kids stare at the lighted tree at Main and Concord, at dusk. The old evergreen never had it so good. The twelve houses on Patterson Court get ready for the Barium Springs parties. Isn’t it nice to think of the orphans at Christmastime!

Over-anxious freshmen put their trees up. First fourth-floor East, then third-floor Watts, then second-floor Cannon outshines them all, while the rushing Greeks stand outside at midnight and admire the one above them. Bleary-eyed students accept their annual Christmas presents from the professors who suddenly realize there's only so much time left in the semester, and there are two reviews left to be scheduled. Red poinsettias dot the offices along first floor Chambers. Secretaries already plan what they'll do during their days off during the holidays, and even the professors are asking each other if there are any special trips planned or whatever.

The libraries look forward to the break: the holiday schedule is posted on the front door 10 days before the vacation begins. A short Thursday chapel reminds the listeners that it’s that time of year again... time to use the hymnbooks for singing instead of knee rests. It’s also time to listen to that Yuletide pitch about what's happened to the good, ol’ holidays and let’s put Christ back into Christmas and it’s too commercialized and so on. But is it all just getting to be a topic to start the holiday conversation? Perhaps there lies something behind all of the talk and triteness. Anyway, there's too much to do to think seriously about such a thing during a holiday. After all, the very idea of Christmas in the first place.

Projected renovations shown in this architect's conception of the renovated Chambers Auditorium are scheduled to begin in April or May, with a projected completion date of September 1966. Plans are in the final stages, according to College Business Manager, Robert A. Currie. Plans call for upholstered seats, with a reduction in seating capacity to 1,200, since there will be more space for individual seats. Other major improvements include acoustical changes, air conditioning, new lighting and sound systems, and widening and extension of the present stage. Plans also call for blocking up existing windows, additional offstage area, improved dressing rooms with the construction of a mezzanine under the stage.

The quality of the first issue is uneven. Of the two short stories, "Late August" by Smith McKeithen ‘65 is clearly the superior. Mr. McKeithen shows a fine command of language and an adept handling of the psychology of his characters. On the other hand, "The Street of the Sovereigns" by S. P. Adinarayan, Visiting Professor of Psychology here last spring, fails to convince because of the unhappy and overworked device of the converted prostitute. The section of John Cheever is excellent: the reviews show both insight and good judgment. The idea of devoting a section of each issue to the work of a contemporary writer is an excellent one, and I hope that this feature will be continued.

The poetry is difficult to evaluate. Few of the poems are impressive in their totality, but many contain fine touches. The closing lines of the second anonymous poem, "Move lightly, go softly: this last shattered heartbeat/ Marks nothing important," have a haunting sadness about them. German instructor Julius Winkler makes effective use of alliterative technique in "Merry-Go-Round"; and Charles R. Wyrick ‘61 makes his point with force and precision in "This Is How It Is." The most successful of the poems are "Dogs" by Robert Canzoneri, professor of English at Ohio State, in which humor and humanity are delightfully combined. Though the first issue of The Miscellany is disappointing in some respects, the venture is clearly a promising one. With a greater range of contributions from which to draw, with more support from the student body, and with more experience, Mr. Vick and The Miscellany staff should be able to produce excellent issues in the winter and spring.

CLOSE-UP By TOM CRAIG Davidsonian Associate Editor

Has Christmas changed, or have I? Each December brings fond memories of the Christmases of my childhood, but each recent Christmas has been lived as if something were missing.

THE HAPPY WEEK

The rustic happiness of my first Christmases on a South Carolina farm can never be recaptured. For a boy there, Christmas week was the most exciting time of the year. The air was crisp and clear, the forest inviting and teeming with wild animals. There was always time for a romp through the dried forest leaves with my dog... and never a worry if both of us became covered with beggars’ lice. This was the week I could accompany my father on a quail hunt, or go with Fred, the old colored man, to check his rabbit traps. It was great to ride my bike up to the crossroads settlement to get the mail at the ramshackle post office. The nearby general store was stuffy and smoky from the pot-bellied stove that stood guard by the cash register. The store was filled with neighborhood farmers, there to buy, or to idle an afternoon away. On the ride, I would often stop by the creek, and look wonderingly at the patches of ice along its edges. In the back of my mind, there was always the hope it would snow for Christmas.

The annual farm Christmas party brought all the tenants and their families to our house, where oranges, apples, nuts, and candy were given to all. To each family went a ham, to each man a bit of tobacco, to each child, a simple toy. Just before Christmas Eve, the tree-scouting party’s mission began. With Mother, and sister Susan, and Fred, we went to find a suitable pine. It was always a pine for us, nothing else would do. As we triumphantly brought it home, and decorated it, I knew the Big Day was very near.

NIGHT BEFORE CHRISTMAS

The family vespers on Christmas Eve, around the living room’s manger scene, was a brief, but poignant reminder for a small boy that Christmas was more than a time of Santa Claus and present giving. Our stockings were hung by the fireplace, and I always made sure the chimney was open before reluctantly going to bed. Santa’s snack was duly left beside the hearth, and it was off to sleep for me. Once I was SURE I heard sleigh bells outside my window, another time reindeer hoofs on the roof. I never really investigated, though.

COMES CHRISTMAS DAY

As I was the youngest member of the family, Christmas dawned earlier for me than anyone else. We all went together, to see what Santa Claus had left, and then attacked the presents under the tree. There was a race to see who could say “Christmas Gifts” to old Bessie, the cook, first. Annually, Bessie sneaked into the living room and surprised us. Time for lunch would come, and I loved it all... or, all except the coconut in the ambrosia. And then, it was Christmas afternoon, when I luxuriated in the joy of a million new toys, a thousand new interests, to occupy my time for days.

WHERE IS THE MAGIC?

I will be at home for Christmas this year, but it won’t be the same. The carefree romps in the woods will be replaced by a bout with a term paper. The kindly old Fred has died now, his rabbit traps are abandoned. The old country store occupies a new building, where a heat pump has replaced the Franklin stove. The tenants have all moved away, to the city, to work in the mills. The farm sits idle and is soon to become a part of town. There is hardly time to crowd the Christmas Eve Vespers in among the host of dances, parties, dinners. There are no children in the family to marvel at the mystery of Santa Claus. Come Christmas Day, presents are opened, and then stacked in a corner, and Christmas afternoon seems horribly anti-climactic.

Has Christmas changed, or have I? I think that the answer is found in the song’s refrain, “Christmas was made for children... Children like you and I.” I must learn, for one week of the year, to become a child again. Only then may I recapture the magic of Christmas and the spirit of the Christmas season.