FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘MODEST PARTICIPATION’ Clark Describes August Riots

(Editor's note: Associate Editor Johnny Clark, along with Bill Briggs, DAVIDSONIAN Sports Editor, and Sonny Graves, was in usually placid
Los Angeles last month at the time of that city’s turbulent riots. Following is the first of two accounts of
his impressions of the disorders.)

By JOHNNY CLARK Davidsonian Associate Editor (First of two articles)

It was a routine occurrence. A California state trooper stopped a Negro in Los Angeles’ Watts district and attempted to
arrest him for drunken driving, a violation of the law no matter what color a person might be. Yet this
‘brutal’ act by a law officer set off the worst riot in the United States since 1932, a riot which
was to last for a week, and in which 37 people were eventually killed and 900 injured.

Our vantage point during the riots was the Pi Kappa Alpha house at the University of Southern California, a campus
described to us as ‘a white dot on a black map.’ The school was north of Watts, the center of
the riot area, but was still well within the National Guard-occupied riot zone. However, our participation in the disturbances themselves
was rather modest, as we contented ourselves with sitting out on the roof of the house at night, ‘defending’ the
place with shotguns, listening to police and fire sirens around us, along with the occasional sound of sniper fire and
watching the best L.A.’s TV stations had to offer against the brilliant background of an orange sky, glowing from the
fires in the not-so-distant distance.

We were in some danger, though, as one moron on the roof with us let the gun in his lap
go off, missing Bill’s foot by about a foot and scaring the heck out of us all. We all decided
to turn in shortly after this bit of excitement, figuring that with that idiot on the roof, the safest place
around was in bed.

The radio and TV stations did a thorough job of reporting the week-long event, with all-day and night coverage which
reminded me somewhat of the continuous coverage of the flights of the early astronauts, although the participants are rather great
distances apart on the ladder of the feats of man.

Every couple of hours we plotted the spread of the violence on our city street map; like hurricane trackers, we
watched it slowly inch toward the USC campus. The riots had started seven miles away, and we did not really
believe that they would reach us. But Thursday night, the third night of the riots, we were stopped by a
police blockade while returning to the fraternity house. Four Negroes were lined up against a wall with their hands over
their heads. The police told us of sniper fire ahead, said that we could enter at our own risk, and
wished us luck. The riot was now real to us.

The enormity of the violence amazed me. The riot area covered 50 square miles. The L.A. police department needed the
help of 15,000 national guardsmen, almost as many troops as were sent to the Dominican Republic at the height of
that crisis, to get the violence under reasonable control. Arrests totaled 4,000 as 1,000 businesses were totally or partly destroyed
and damage estimates reached over $200 million. Whole city blocks burned as mobs turned away fire trucks with rocks, fists,
bottles, and gunfire. Police reinforcements arrived just in time to save a hospital treating the wounded from being stormed by
a screaming, rock-throwing mob. Many wounded did not make it there, however, as 45 ambulances refused to enter the area
after the rioters had begun to call in false reports in order to lure white ambulance workers into the zone.
Ironically, over half of the deaths were Negroes. Many of these were apprehended rioters who fired on police or fled
arrest. Others were more pitiable, such as the small Negro child who was killed by a sniper as he sat
on his front lawn with his mother because it was too hot inside.

One extremely ironic consequence of the burning and looting was an acute food shortage, hitting hardest those responsible Negroes who
had not participated in looting the food stores. The stores in the area had been looted and burned, any that
had possibly survived were not open, and Negroes of the area could not get out to get food from other
areas. The shortage was finally alleviated by state welfare handouts.

Still another irony was that the same Negro mobs shouting ‘police brutality’ on the first nights of the riots were
those who gently pulled unwary white motorists from their cars and lovingly pounded them into the pavement. The racial aspects
of the riots were unmistakable. It had begun in the heart of the Negro area (Watts district is 99 percent
Negro), and the rioters spared only establishments with ‘Blood Brother’ signs, shouting ‘Let's get Whitey’ and ‘Burn, baby, burn’ as
they carried out their looting, beating, and burning.

On the third day of the riots, a radio announcer reported a telegram that L.A. Police Chief Parker had received
from the head of the Alabama State Police, stating simply, ‘Now you know the meaning of the Negro non-violent movement.’
The veteran police chief had no comment.

(Next week: last of a two-part series).

SUBSCRIPTION FORM

Don't Miss A Single Issue This Fall!

Name
Address
City
State
ZIP

I enclose $4.00 New .... Bill me at $4.50 Renewal

Mail to: Circulation Mgr. Box 218 Davidson, N.C. 28036

Adds Work And Study Space

Davidson’s library underwent a far-reaching program of improvement and expansion over the summer. Book space was expanded, new workrooms were
added and study facilities were improved, Dr. Chalmers Davidson, director of the library reported. Funds for this program were provided
mostly through appropriations and a $40,000 grant from Duke Endowment. The grant more than doubled the funds appropriated by the
college.

Three new offices and workrooms were constructed on the first floor in the Babcock Wing for the processing of books
and periodicals. One room is used for preparing books and magazines for shipping to the binding companies and assembling them
on return. Another is a new workroom for the cataloguers. The third room serves as an office for the ordering
department. The stacks which originally occupied this space have been moved to the third floor of the Babcock Wing. More
stacks have also been ordered for this area. This will involve a great expansion of book space and a rearrangement
of all books. Carrels, air-conditioning, and heating have also been added.

Vespers Will Get Terry's ‘New Look’

A new look in the vespers program will be forthcoming, College Chaplain Will Terry indicated recently. This new look places
a greater emphasis on the educational experience of vespers through the use of worship services from various traditions. For instance,
Sunday Terry plans to take the form of service from the Anglican tradition. In the future, there will be such
interesting and controversial services as a program consisting largely of folk hymns to be put on by the students themselves,
a film entitled “The Parable” and a play performed by members of the drama department.

AACU President Speak Tuesday

Dr. Carter Davidson, president of the Association of American Colleges and Universities, will speak in chapel on Tuesday. Davidson, unrelated
to Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, received his AB from Harvard College, his MA from the University of Louisville and his
PhD from the University of Chicago. After teaching English atSeveral colleges, Davidson served as president of Knox College, Galesburg, Ill.,
from 1936-1946. He then moved on to Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., where he was president from 1946-1964. Davidson is
a Congregational minister and the author of two books. Extremely active on various commissions for higher education, Davidson has been
given 10 honorary doctoral degrees. Following chapel, he will speak individually with students and faculty members during a coffee in
the Morrison Room of the Union.

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

make this wing suitable for studying. One of the most noticeable changes is the new lighting in the reserve book
room. More improvements on this lighting system will be made later. This semester the library is again remaining open until
12 midnight on a trial basis. The number of late-hour scholars in the library has not been as large as
expected, but the library committee has decided to continue with the trial. The library and its staff are anxious to
serve the students in any way that they can. They welcome all suggestions from students and faculty for further improvements
in the library.

Dr. Abernethy Edits New Book On Religion
Dr. George L. Abernethy, professor of philosophy, is the editor of a new book Living Wisdom From the World’s Religions,
which will be published simultaneously in this country and in Canada Monday by Holt, Rinehart and Winston. Dr. Abernethy's book
is a diary of 365 daily readings selected chiefly from the scriptures and wisdom literature of the major religions of
the world. While studying comparative religion at Columbia University in 1952-53 on a Ford Foundation Fellowship, Dr. Abernethy first became
interested in collecting materials for such a diary of readings. Previous devotional diaries had been restricted to a single religious
tradition. Dr. Abernethy remarked that foreign travel, military service abroad, college courses in comparative religion, and the increasing sale of
religious paperbacks had prepared many for a devotional diary of readings drawn from all the major religious traditions. Included in
the book are two selections from the writings of the German mystic Angelus Silesius which were especially translated for the
volume by Professors J. S. Winkler and E. O. Wruck of Davidson's German Department. Earlier in the summer, Dickinson Publishing
Company, a West Coast subsidiary of Prentice Hall, published History Of Philosophy — Selected Readings which was edited by Dr.
Abernethy and Dr. Thomas A. Langford, chairman of the Duke University Department of Philosophy.

OPERATION MATCH
22,000 Participants Last Year
SEE ANY MEMBER
COMING SOON To Campuses Of Beta Theta Pi & Throughout The Fraternity Carolinas For Further Information

SLOT RACING
TWO TRACKS 150 X 180 FEET LONG
A Complete Line Of Kits and Scratch Building Parts
Open Seven Days A Week With Regular Races Sundays
Come And Join The Fun At
MOORESVILLE MODEL SPEEDWAY
MAIN STREET
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Changes in parking regulations concerning restricted areas, increased fines, regulation of temporary vehicles, and the prohibition of motorcycles have been
announced by the Office of the Dean of Students. The new regulations will directly affect the 321 upperclassmen and 13
freshmen who have acquired parking permits from the Bursar’s Office. Freshmen were issued red permits while upperclassmen received white. The
change will also alleviate the crowded conditions in the parking area west of Belk dormitory. Numerous violation notices have been
placed on upperclassmen automobiles in this lot. The parking area north of the gym will continue to be open only
to red permit holders and temporarily registered vehicles. All other parking restrictions remain as stated in the traffic regulations.

PAGE THREE

COP LINKER CATCHES ANOTHER ONE
Places Were Non-Existent In Lot Behind Little Dorm
Change In Regulations Aids Parking Situation

Another change from last year's regulations pertains to the fines for failure to appear at traffic court. In the past,
there was only a $1 fine for each session of court at which the violator failed to appear. This year
the dollar fine has been increased to $3. Also, vehicles kept on campus for more than 48 hours without a
permit must now be registered in the Office of the Dean of Students. In any case, a permit must be
secured if the vehicle remains on campus more than two weeks, according to Tof Covington, assistant dean of students. Covington
stated that the only traffic regulation which had caused any anxiety among Davidson students was the restriction prohibiting the possession
or use of motorcycles on campus.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday
The Hub

Capable of speeds better than 2,000 mph, the YF-12A is the hottest aircraft around. Now Maj. Walter F. Daniel, test
pilot for the YF-12A, answers your questions about the world’s fastest manned airplane and America’s Aerospace Team. (Maj. Daniel, a
test pilot since 1954, is a member of the Society of Experimental Test Pilots. He received a B.S. degree in
Aeronautical Engineering from the University of Oklahoma. In February 1962, he set world class time-to-climb records in a T-38 jet
trainer:)

Is the YF-12A the world’s fastest manned aircraft?
It certainly is. On May 1 of this year, the YF-12A (formerly known as the A-11) reclaimed the world absolute
speed record from the USSR. It was clocked at 2,062 mph over Edwards Air Force Base.

How big is the YF-12A?
The exact dimensions of the YF-12A have not been released yet. But it's approximately 100 feet long, with about a
50-foot wingspan. That's half again as big as our present interceptors!

Is the Air Force training many men as pilots these days?
Yes, very definitely. In spite of all you hear about unmanned vehicles, the human pilot is still very much in
the picture. As a matter of fact, the Air Force pilot quota is on the increase.

What other kinds of jobs does the Air Force offer?
Since it’s one of the world's foremost technological organizations, the Air Force has plenty of openings for scientists and engineers.
There are also many challenging and varied administrative-managerial positions.

What do I have to do to become an Air Force officer?
Air Force ROTC is the best way to get started as an Air Force officer. The new two-year Air Force
ROTC program makes this method available to men who have already completed a year or two of their college education.
For college graduates, if you did not take advantage of ROTC, you can still get started through Air Force Officer
Training School (OTS), a three-month course open to both men and women.

Can I keep up my studies while I'm in the Air Force?
The Air Force encourages its men and women to continue their educations. For instance, you may qualify to study for
a graduate degree during off-duty hours, with the Air Force paying a substantial part of the tuition.

What kind of future do I have in the Air Force?
A bright one. As we move further into the Aerospace Age, the Air Force is going to grow even more
important. And you can grow with it!

United States Air Force.
