FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 1965

THE DAVIDSONIAN

IFC Mid-Winters Chairman Previews Coming Film Attractions

“Although the motion picture medium more than any other calls for the imaginative mind, more than any other, too, it calls for the practical mind,” wrote Eric Elliott.

Next semester, as has been the case for the present one, movies will be shown at Davidson to accomplish two purposes, announced Film Chairman Gordon Ball. The first is to present the imagination in the films as vehicles for thought; the second is to use the proceeds of the films to acquire new and better movie equipment.

Several film programs will appear between now and the end of the second semester. God's Little Acre, which completes the tongue-in-cheek religious series, will be shown tomorrow night. Next week's schedule will feature The Maltese Falcon on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday nights in the Morrison Room. Heralded by Paul Rotha in The Film Till Now as “an outstanding example of brilliantly used camera devices of all kinds,” it stars Humphrey Bogart, Mary Astor, and Peter Lorre; it is directed by John Huston, of Treasure of the Sierra Madre and Night of the Iguana fame. Reports Brandon Films: “James Agee called The Maltese Falcon ‘the best private-eye melodrama ever made.’ It had the additional distinction of introducing the directorial skills of John Huston, who previously had been only a screenwriter. It made his reputation almost overnight.

“The story contains most of the dramatic ingredients which characterized the ‘private-eye’ mystery films of the period. A highly-valued exotic subject (a statuette of the Maltese Falcon formerly owned by King Charles of Spain) leads detective Sam Spade (Humphrey Bogart) down a path strewn with a charming, double-crossing client (Mary Astor), a mysterious foreigner (Peter Lorre), a sinister fat man (Sydney Greenstreet), and his grim but hapless gun boy (Elisha Cook, Jr.). International intrigue, murder, romance—all within a technically compact framework—from Dashiell Hammett's thrilling mystery novel.”

Time magazine reviewed: “A passel of furtive folk vigorously committing homicide to get hold of a bejeweled statuette of a falcon may sound old-hat to present-day cinema-goers, but director John Huston makes their melodramatic activities as immediate as a shot in a dark room.

“His characters keep close to Hammett’s originals, who in turn are so close to real life that what is constantly about to happen to them (and often does) becomes at times downright unbearable.

“This dramatic suspense is heightened by some practically perfect performances by a slick cast... Humphrey Bogart gives the performance of his career.

“Close behind him is an aging (61), solid (280 lb.) crackerjack Broadway star (Sidney Greenstreet) making his first movie a shivery success. Making a trio with his part is slight, saccharine, sinister Peter Lorre, whose mere presence would turn a bedtime story macabre.”

As usual, free flicks will be shown during exams week. On tap are The Magnificent Seven (Yul Brynner, Eli Wallach, and Steve McQueen), Hound of the Baskervilles, Love is a Ball, and three cartoons.

During Midwinters a special alternative will be offered to after-parties on the night of Friday, Feb. 13. Beginning at 11:30, three movies will be shown: Night of the Iguana, The Apartment, and Experiment in Terror. Admission is free, and the Union lounge chairs will be moved into the Morrison Room to make it as comfortable as possible for students and their dates.

Next semester Film Friends will expand its program to six films while maintaining the present membership fee of $2.00. Under the theme of “Great Directors,” films by each of the following cinematic creators will be presented: America’s D. W. Griffith, the Soviet Union's Sergei Eisenstein, France’s Jean Vigo and Rene Clair, Japan’s Kenji Mizoguchi, and Poland's Andrzej Wajda. Discussion at each of the films will investigate the contributions of the director.

In the spring two other special attractions are planned: a Cultist Film Festival, and a Film of the Year. The former will run for two weeks and will attempt to satisfy four types of film enthusiasts by the following motley program: a Marx Brothers film, several Roadrunner cartoons, an Ingmar Bergman film, and another Humphrey Bogart film. The Film of the Year, to be announced, will be a recent movie which has achieved worldwide acclaim.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:

Bailey
Brinkley
Cumming
Epes
Houchens
Jackson
Martin, S.
Marrotte
Minter
Nelson
Plott
Rhodes
Jones
Kaylor
Lammers
McGeachy
Maloney
Toward
Richey
Schenck
Smith
Stone
Young

The ‘Great Society’ by Hill Pal

MALL: SCENE OF DANCE

Julie London Will Sing At Cotswold Mall Dance

By JAMIE BRYANT
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Midwinters 1965 will feature a diversified program with the presentation by the IFC of Martha and the Vandellas, and Julie London on the nights of Feb. 12 and 13 respectively.

The informal dance featuring Martha and the Vandellas will last from 7:30 p.m. until 11:30 p.m. in the basement of Chambers. Martha and the Vandellas are a currently popular rock and roll group which has released several albums on the Motown label featuring songs such as “Heat Wave” and “Dancing In The Streets.”

On Saturday night Julie London will make four twenty-minute appearances at the formal dance in the East Mall of the Cotswold Shopping Center in Charlotte. This dance begins at 8:30 p.m. and ends at 11:30 p.m. Miss London will be backed up by the Bobby Troup Quartet. This arrangement works out nicely in that Julie London in real life is Mrs. Bobby Troup with three lovely children.

Entertainment between Miss London’s performances will be provided by the Loonis McGlohon Band which has visited Davidson on other occasions and has recorded an album on the campus in Hodson Hall. A formal figure will be presented at 10 p.m. consisting of all IFC members and their dates, and the fraternity sweethearts escorted by the fraternity presidents. The West Mall will be open, and refreshments will be served there. A yet unannounced group will also be present to provide music.

The Cotswold Shopping Center is a multimillion-dollar shopping complex consisting of 40 stores dealing in fine men’s and women’s wear, gift shops, and several large department stores. These shops are clustered around two rectangular malls with the front of the shops opening onto the mall. The mall itself has old brick floors and is decorated by a central fountain and several planters of exotic tropical plants. The mall is attractively decorated and offers an extremely interesting setting for the Midwinters formal dance. Decorations for the dance will be in keeping with the theme of Valentine's Day. Maps with complete directions to the Cotswold Shopping Center will be provided.will be available in the Union office prior to the dance.

Russell Controls Music Department
By BOB STRAUSER

The term “Davidson institution” brings to mind visions perhaps of the old well, the foul odor of the smoking rooms in Chambers Buildings, or indolent under-achievers sleeping through first period. Herb Russell, “administrative assistant” in the music department, presents an earthier, somewhat vitriolic picture of what an institution can be—even at Davidson.

“Too damn long,” said Russell as I started to ask how long he had been associated with the school. “I came here as a student in 1948 and never left; in 1951 I got my BS—and that stands for just what you would think.”

Young Restates His Stand On Fraternities
By BOB YOUNG

I have been asked by THE DAVIDSONIAN to write this statement, summarizing and restating my feelings with regard to the fraternity system at Davidson as it is now constituted. My criticisms of the present system center in two areas:

(1.) The fraternities, at the heart and center of the College, now play such an all-encompassing role that their influence tends to interfere with the broader ends of the College itself. The importance of fraternity has become exaggerated beyond all proportion, and the academic and extracurricular functions of the College tend to assume a secondary role. Until fraternities assume the secondary role, until the students, faculty, and administration realize that too much energy has already been wasted in agonizing over this problem, and until we all realize that the time has come to put an end to the pressure that for so long and to so large an extent has monopolized our attention, Davidson College and her students will never hope to reach their goals as an institution of higher education.

As I see it, the only means of loosening this grip which fraternities have on the students' mind is to encourage a more casual, less binding feeling toward fraternities. And I feel that the removal of the Freshman Class from the major portion of its involvement in fraternities would be a step in the right direction. This, I feel, could best be accomplished by instituting Sophomore Rush. Given one full year for a reasonable adjustment to college life, the student would have a better perspective on the place of fraternity life in his own pursuit of a liberal education. Granted, Sophomore Rush would place a heavy burden on the College—that of providing a social outlet for freshmen; the social realm is clearly one of the functions of the college community. And this is a responsibility Davidson College should have accepted long ago. Davidson must do no less than help provide a social framework that will advance its total educational goals in the most effective way. The fraternities obviously can play a role here, but as it exists the system must be evaluated in terms of its effect upon the attainment of this end. And thus far, I feel that the fraternity system has detracted from that end.

(2.) Somewhere, somehow, we at Davidson have come to accept, condone, and defend a social system that permits a Davidson student to become a victim to a system of formal rejection and exclusion from a major portion of student life. We have bragged about our “model” fraternity system based on the blackball, a system which, in effect, formally segregates one group from another to the detriment of both. One man who experienced this exclusion said to me recently, “It did me a great deal of good, but I wouldn't prescribe it for anyone else.” And this boy later got a bid! What about the boys who didn't? Why cannot all segments of the Davidson community jointly resolve that every boy who wants a fraternity bid will get one? Why cannot we institute 100 percent bidding? As Gary Martin said, “What I am talking about is freedom of association, or our lack of it. I'm talking about the artificial barriers, the unfair labels in one case, the stigmas in another, which are created through these superficial groups which somehow have come to demand almost the same respect as God, mother, and country.” Surely the Davidson student is bright enough to realize that there are others who have something to offer besides those who suavely got by the blackball. It is time for basic changes. Surely we are now ready for them. If we are not, our fraternity system will continue to check unnecessarily our forward movement toward reaching the goals of the College.

Herb Russell, the Davidson graduate, will be tended ill heavily on Herb Russell's administrative capabilities. His ex-health After Davidson...?

“After Davidson, the grave,” he said. Russell, 51 years old shortly, has less hair than he might have had at one time, and has a caustic front that frightens only freshmen and little girls. “Since I invented the term,” continued Russell, “I’m the only ‘honorary Chamber Maid’ in the history of the school.” He had reference to his membership in the college secretarial staff. But this is hardly his only distinction. Herb sang with the Male Chorus for seven years (“until someone asked who that old man in the front row was...”) and plays piano, organ, and “on the linoleum (since an early age).”

“Originally I was an assistant to Dr. J. C. Pfohl (former band director) but when he left, I stayed,” said Russell. “I was entrenched by that time—one of those fixtures, like Chalmers Davidson.” A search for scotch tape cut short the topic. Herb volunteered the information that he celebrated his fiftieth birthday last year with a pink champagne party in the Fine Arts Building. Unfortunately, his ulcers prohibited his participation in the alcoholic festivities.

Before coming to Davidson, Russell lived in Sanford. He graduated from high school in 1931 and from Presbyterian Junior College in 1933. From his graduation until World War II, he worked for the National Farm Loan Association in Sanford.

Herb and his mother live on Concord Road behind the Dana Science Building. He admits to liking cooking and says he has done “everything around the house except have a baby. Maybe this year...,” he mused. Although the topic was not mentioned, it is rumored that the music department relies on marriage to some rich widow with one foot in the grave. “I like Davidson.”

CPL. HERBERT A. RUSSELL JR.
Drew Field at Tampa, Fla.—Dec. 1944