FOUR PREPS TO PRESENT CONCERT (See Page Four)

VOL. LV

FORD FOUNDATION BEGINS REPORT

This abstract figure, based on the Greek letter “delta,” has been adopted by the college as the symbol for the challenge in meeting the Ford Foundation grant. For a special report on the plans and progress behind the efforts, turn to Page Three.

FRIDAY

Full Schedule Planned For Freshman Parents

By CRAIG WILSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

A “reasonably good turnout” of freshman parents is expected for the annual Freshman Parents’ Day, Nov. 13, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, Jr., announced this week.

Sponsored by the Freshman Council, the affair will get underway Friday for those parents who wish to stay overnight and attend the drama department’s production of Green Grow the Lilacs at 8:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. The play will be presented the following evening.

Saturday morning the visitors will register beginning at 9. Tours staggered at 15-minute intervals will be conducted until noon by members of the Freshman Council. Limited class visitations will also be provided.

A banquet in Chambers basement will be followed by an assembly at 2 p.m. With Bayard Miller, council president, presiding, parents will be welcomed by President D. Grier Martin and other administrative officials.

Parents will meet with faculty advisors, hall counselors, and professors during the course of the day, but according to Dean Burts, “We do not expect any lengthy consultations.”

From 4 until 6 in the afternoon freshmen will be attending rush parties with non-compulsory parent attendance. At the conclusion of the parties, the day’s program will officially end.

“We have received many replies to our invitations,” said Dean Burts, “and we expect more every day. We hope, of course, that all parents will be able to attend, but in case some of them can’t, we would like all freshmen to join in just the same.”

SAO, ATTENTION

Students — freshmen or upperclassmen — interested in writing news stories or reading copy for THE DAVIDSONIAN should attend an introductory meeting Sunday night at 9:45 p.m. in the DAVIDSONIAN office in the College Union or contact News Editor Sam Boyle in 374 Belk.

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1965

Phi Initiates In December

Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, elected seven Davidson seniors to membership last week. Election to the fraternity is the highest scholastic achievement attainable by undergraduates. The students must maintain at least a B-plus average throughout their college years. They also must have completed residence of at least five semesters on the Davidson College campus. The fraternity cannot elect more than eight percent of the Junior Class or twelve and one-half percent of the Senior Class.

Phi Beta Kappa, founded in 1776, is the oldest of the Greek letter fraternities. Gamma Chapter of North Carolina was founded at Davidson in 1923. These seniors will be initiated on Dec. 3.

John M. Burks, a chemistry major from Bedford, Va., was president of Phi Eta Sigma, honorary freshman scholastic fraternity. He is program chairman of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, and a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity. He serves on the Honor Court and belongs to Sigma Chi. He also holds a McConnell scholarship.

Patrick Hubbard, a Procter and Gamble and McConnell scholar, is treasurer of ATO, secretary-treasurer of LUMAC, a member of the union board, and played freshman basketball. He is a history major from Jacksonville, Fla.

J. Edwin Craig, from Lancaster, S. C., has appeared in several dramatic productions, is a member of the Young Democrats, and belongs to Le Cercle Francais. Craig is in Phi Eta Sigma, the Philanthropic Literary Society, and was on the editorial staff of Inklings. Craig holds the William Alfred Merchant scholarship and has participated in a summer program sponsored by The American Society of Public Administration.

David Ellett, a chemistry major from Aiken, S. C., has received the David H. Howard Memorial Award for the most outstanding rising senior who plans a career in chemistry. He is a member of Sigma Nu, belongs to Phi Eta Sigma, the Philanthropic Literary Society, and is secretary of Gamma Sigma Epsilon.

Albert Keiser, a history major from Hickory, is a member of Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German language fraternity, and the Business-Economics Association.

Neil G. McBryde, from Durham, is the YMCA chairman of hall discussions, co-chairman of the social committee of the Union Board, and was vice-president and pledge trainer of SAE. McBryde, a history major, participated in the U. S. State Department Intern Program, served as collection chairman of the YMCA Gift Fund, and as a hall counselor.

David M. Powell, a history major from Little Rock, Ark., is freshman advisor, president of SAE, and head cheerleader. He served on the Freshman Council, was president of the Junior Class, and is on the Union Board.

Visitors Arrive Today For Annual Meeting

The Davidson College Board of Visitors is holding its annual meeting here today and tomorrow. The Visitors, some 50 leaders from industry and the professions, arrived on campus today at noon for a weekend of meetings and events, including the Davidson-Lehigh football game Saturday afternoon.

Emphasis of the weekend will be upon Davidson’s current educational program. Dr. Philip B. Secor, assistant professor of political science, will lead the Visitors in a seminar that will revolve around his recent month-long visit to Russia, the session entitled “Professor in Moscow.” Dr. Anthony S. Abbott, assistant professor in English literature, will lead a Saturday morning discussion of George Bernard Shaw and religion, the subject of a book which he recently authored. The Visitors will hear President D. Grier Martin discuss Davidson’s current campaign to raise $5.5 million inOrder to qualify for a $2.2 million Ford Foundation challenge grant, other facets of the college’s program, such as its one-year junior year abroad program in France and Germany, will be looked at in depth. “The Visitors hear and see the college in action and in turn discuss, suggest, and advise the college in its planning throughout the year,” Robert J. Sailstad, secretary of the board, said. The chairman of the Davidson Board of Visitors is James G. Cannon, vice chairman of the executive committee of the American Credit Corp., Charlotte. Vice chairmen are Maj. General Brooke Allen, Headquarters Command, USAF, Bolling Air Force Base, Washington, D.C.; and Julien McCall, vice president of the First National City Bank, New York City.

A NEW FRESHMAN? To see who the new wearer of the beanie was this week, turn to Page Four.

The controversial art-sex film, “Flaming Creatures,” will not be shown at the Davidson College Union this year. This decision of Union Director C. Shaw Smith came early this week after sponsors failed to get a single faculty member to designate the movie as valuable to his discipline. The film's backers, Gordon Ball and Bill Trotter, conceived the idea of showing this movie about the art of abnormal sexual relations as an intellectual coup d’etat for Davidson College, “to show the area Davidson's tolerance and quest for free inquiry.” They contracted for the movie for early December and this week announced new plans to show it off campus to all interested.

The controversy triggered many statements on the “Wailing Wall” of the Union this week. The backers disowned several of the statements by persons purporting to be a part of the film committee, including one which accused Smith of being narrow-minded and of having a warped moral bias. But proponents of Smith's actions accused the film's backers of being a part of a campus conspiracy over the nation to destroy America's moral fiber. One observer noted that nearly all statements about the film placed on the “Wailing Wall” were by freshmen and sophomores, including one who delighted to write over everyone else’s efforts. Ball announced that a petition pledging $1.00 or more for the showing of the flick early in December had already received enough supporters to pay the rental price of $60. He also said that a few more names would be accepted on the petition in his room. The place and the time of the showing will be announced later, he stated.

Atter chapel period Monday, the Student Council will distribute Christmas cards to be sent to the U.S. forces in South Viet Nam. Similar projects, publicized along with Davidson’s in the Charlotte newspapers and on television stations this week, are being carried out at Queens, Johnson C. Smith, and the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. Due to the unavailability of names and addresses of service men in the Charlotte area stationed in South Viet Nam, the cards will be addressed to “Fighting Man,” the Student Council reported this week.

Trotter stated that the backers had no ill-will toward Smith: “He's been a good sport about the whole thing and has treated us fairly.” The Union director had promised to remove his objection to showing the film in the College Union if the backers could find one or two professors who would state the value of the film for their intellectual discipline.

Concern over the implications of the new, faculty-approved drinking rule has dominated current discussion among various elements of the college and has prompted continued consideration of the drinking situation by the joint Faculty-Trustee Committee on Alcoholic Beverage Policy. In effect, the action by the faculty last month has removed all official college restrictions on drinking by Davidson students outside of the Davidson city limits, with the exception that the “gentlemanly conduct” rule is still applicable to students at all times.

The controversy began after the five-man committee, in which Dr. J. G. Martin and Dr. W. G. Workman represent the faculty, recommended to the faculty a rule change that would permit drinking at fraternity parties and other functions which are neither directly sponsored by the college nor at which students are officially representing the college. In effect, the proposal was to recognize officially the status quo, while retaining the restrictions on college-sponsored, off-campus functions and on other functions at which students are representing the college. An amendment that would delete restrictions on students outside of Davidson was narrowly approved instead.

“The point is,” noted one professor who supported the amendment in its final form, “that it is impossible to delineate among all the possible instances in which a student may or may not be representing the college or to determine what sort of function may be construed as partially sponsored by the college.” The faculty member cited such inconsistencies as the situation of a student “representing the college” in the Junior Year Abroad program. “We feel that the problem is best handled by limiting the college regulations to the area where they can be effectively enforced and where the college is logically responsible—the Davidson campus—while retaining the gentlemanly conduct rule to deal with any possible excesses that might arise,” he concluded.

In addition to elements among the faculty and administration, opposition to the rule changes has come from Social Council Chairman Dan Campbell. “Naturally,” says Campbell, “the change puts pressure on the Social Council to sponsor off-campus parties so that students may drink. I personally would favor allowing students to drink at on-campus functions and I approve of the change concerning drinking at off-campus fraternity parties,” stated Campbell. “But short of allowing drinking at weekend functions on campus, I prefer going back to the old rule concerning college-sponsored affairs,” he added. “The new situation brings the problem of the expense of renting a place to have some of our functions away from Davidson, and also creates the problem of student transportation to and from the functions, complicated by the fact that many will have been drinking. And if the present rule stands, we will almost certainly have to have an off-campus party,” he explained.

Campbell stated further that he had sent a letter to President D. Grier Martin expressing these views and that he intends to meet with the president to discuss the problem further. President Martin declined to discuss the subject with a DAVIDSONIAN reporter this week, but indicated through his assistant that he would have no statement until after the faculty meeting next week. One faculty member claimed that Martin's opposition to the change was indicated by the announcement by the president's office after the faculty action that the matter would be considered by the Trustees. “Ordinarily,” observed the source, “faculty action is not even presented for Trustees approval, except in unusual cases such as the faculty action concerning fraternities last spring.”

Further opposition has come from various members of the athletic department, principally coaches of the minor sports, who have expressed fear that drinking by athletes on team trips might be difficult to prevent. “I doubt that this would be the case,” noted Assistant Athletic Director Heath Whittle, “but the possibility is now open for athletes to drink on trips, and since the minor sports have no scholarships, a problem of team discipline could conceivably arise.”

Officially, the Board of Trustees recommended further study by the joint faculty-trustee committee, and the committee is expected to report on the matter at the faculty meeting Tuesday. “I hope that the faculty will stick by their guns,” commented one senior. “Recognition of even limited student responsibility in the area of drinking is a step toward removing the glorified prep school atmosphere that Davidson still retains to a large degree.”