Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager

FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Confronting The Problem

A week has passed since the release of the report of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee. And, as we suspected, debate has failed to focus on the real problems. Extended harangues have been directed at the makeup of the committee itself: but regardless of the complexion of the committee, the proposals must be considered on their own merit. Long-winded monologues on the impact of the proposals on “our” fraternity are likewise irrelevant: not because the recommendations would have little impact on anyone currently at Davidson but because “our” fraternity is not the question.

The question is the influence that the fraternity, and the fraternity system have on the life of the Davidson student who is the innermost part of Davidson College. What is the impact of the fraternity and the fraternity system on the non-member? And on the member?

The entire social structure at Davidson must be examined in light of these problems: Most noticeable, of course, to the man not in a fraternity is his distinct lack of an adequate social outlet. More subtle but also more important is the idea of rejection. Whether Independent by choice or by lack of choice, the non-fraternity man carries the stigma of not being in a fraternity, literally of not being “in.”

However, the problem of the greatest magnitude is also the one that is most frequently overlooked—the detrimental effect of the fraternity on the fraternity men themselves. In that they are selective, fraternities set certain standards, and in order to obtain membership in the all-important fraternity, the entering student realizes that he must conform to the standards or meet only a closed door. But once inside the door the student learns that the standards still exist, sometimes in the form of rules, more frequently in the form of prevailing attitudes. Anticipating initiation, the pledge quickly learns what the group expects and responds accordingly. And, while the pressure of the group lessens somewhat after this initial confrontation, so too does the individual's ability and desire to express his individuality diminish.

In our conversations with members of the community over the past few months, and especially during the past week, we find surprisingly few people willing to face these problems. Indeed, only a small number will concede the existence of such problems. The fraternity system at Davidson is “strong” in the best sense of the word. And, if we felt that the fraternity system could be modified so that these problems were effectively eradicated, then we would support modification of the fraternity system. But such is not the case. Modification at best would lessen the impact of these problems. Modification of the present system would be only a strike at the outward signs rather than the origin of the problems.

Neither of the minority reports originating in the Fraternity Evaluation Committee provides an answer to either the problem of the fraternity member or the non-fraternity member. On the other hand, we find within the committee report a solution that squarely confronts the existing problems and successfully deals with them while maintaining the distinct advantages of the small group social life found within the existing fraternities. We suggest that both students and faculty look once again at the proposals originating from the committee. But we urge that the members of this community conduct this re-examination always asking, “What are the problems? Will this proposal maintain the virtues of the present system while eliminating the problems?”

‘The Editorial Voice’

Student Body presidential candidate David Meschan in a snide reference to THE DAVIDSONIAN in his chapel speech Tuesday questioned the conception of this newspaper as “The News and Editorial Voice of the Davidson College Student Body.” We doubt that Mr. Meschan seriously questions the news function of THE DAVIDSONIAN; rather his charge focuses on the editorial function of the student newspaper.

It is important that we first emphasize that any student who demonstrates his ability and desire to work can aspire to the editorship of this paper. But, even if the student elects to avoid this time-consuming and energy-draining position, he, nevertheless, has a voice in selecting the person who will fill the editorial position. In that each student pays a small sum towards the budget of THE DAVIDSONIAN, each student likewise has a right to vote for the editor-in-chief.

What then is the editor's responsibility to the electorate? It is not merely to reflect the views of the majority of the students on this issue or that issue, even if the majority viewpoint can be determined on all issues. Rather the editor has the responsibility, after examining all sides, of making his own decision guided only by his conscience and his ability to reason. This has been the role that we have tried to fill: an editor, elected by the Student Body, but free to form and express his own opinions. Obviously, under such a system, the editor will never please everyone and, at times, will side opposite the majority. Nevertheless, those who disagree have the option of expressing their disagreement in the “Letters to the Editor” column. It is here—in that every student may express his opinion in writing—that we consider THE DAVIDSONIAN the “News and Editorial Voice of the Davidson College Student Body.” We do not promise to publish every letter: the laws of libel and standards of propriety forbid such a sweeping guarantee. Nevertheless, we hasten to point out that in our four years on THE DAVIDSONIAN staff we have never seen a signed letter submitted for publication fail to be printed. At the worst, letters have been held back for a week for lack of space in the paper.

We share Mr. Meschan’s disappointment that pro-fraternity viewpoints have been few in the columns of THE DAVIDSONIAN. However, our disappointment is nurtured not by sympathy for the fraternity system; rather we are sorry that representatives of all sides in this controversy have failed to exhibit initiative and have failed to come forth with their views. We are sorry to report that, since the beginning of this controversy last November, we have received surprisingly few letters. But we note with interest that, although fraternity men outnumber Independents by a three-to-one margin, most of our letters have originated with Independents.

Copy Editor ....... .. Don Davis
Asst. Copy Editors Bill Aitken, Calvin Zon
Photographers ........... Sam Smith, Tom Thel, Erskine Sproul
Cartoonists ............... Jack Lingle, Rufus Hallmark, Lou Hill
Asst. Business Mgr. — Irvine Welling
Advertising Mgr. —- Bob Cameron

Contributors this week: Tom Peaden, Joe Ford, Paul Marion, Dick Spenser, Huck Berry, Bob Dugger, Bob Travers, Bill Farr, Mike Morawetz, Toby Watt, Frank Fleming, Bob Howard, Tim Rothermel, Joe Bentley, Ed Maxwell, Ron Snow, Danny Boone, John Thomas, Jamie Bryant, Roger David, Walt Drake, Michel Durand, Louis Lesesne, Mike Mooty, Larry Norfleet, Paul Marion, Chuck Byrd, John Allen, Steve Brown, and Tucker Laxton.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Little Selection Makes For Little Elections

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Carter Calls For Realism In Approaching Problems

Dear Editor:

It seems to me that in the Fraternity Evaluation Committee report a tremendous amount of responsibility has been placed on the student body, while virtually none has been asked of the administration. This report states that a large majority of the students must sacrifice a great deal, but that the “school” itself must sacrifice nothing.

Davidson College, though deluding itself into believing that it is a liberal institution by such measures as occasionally having a liberal speaker and by officially advocating non-discrimination, is obviously one of the most conservative colleges in the South. A campus-wide rule forbidding the use and possession of alcohol (with one slight exception) and the rules against having girls in the dormitory at any time, while not completely archaic in the South, are regarded as absurd anachronisms in exactly those same Northern schools which Davidson is so desperately trying to mimic. And even in the South such customs as required chapel and vespers have given Davidson the justly deserved reputation of being a “glorified-prep-school.”

To escape from this unrealistic and suppressive environment in which he has ensnared himself, the average Davidson man turns to activities outside the school, such as dating and “partying.” This is difficult because of both natural and administrative obstacles, but through a sort of “union” the student has banded together with others so that he can date (even though the nearest socially alive community is 20 miles away and he does not have or is not allowed to have a car), and can party with his friends in an atmosphere which, unlike that of campus “parties,” does not reek of the Junior-Senior in the gym of his old high school. This union is the fraternity system.

This then is the conflict—the staid, stolid position of the church school which does nothing to better its frigid social climate, and the social outlet which the students are forced to set up for themselves. In this structure a number of students are left out. The school takes compassion on these few and orders the rest to throw open their private organizations to accommodate this small group.

The school, by its nature as a conservative, church-centered institution, has forced its students to provide an outlet for their “social energies” and now it suddenly wants this outlet abolished, for all practical purposes, saying that it has become too important to the student. But at the same time, it is doing nothing to erase those same factors which have caused fraternities to become so central at Davidson.

I propose that before such drastic changes such as those

He Did A GoodJob: Will THEY Miss Him?

Dear Editor:

Well, he’s leaving Monday. I wonder if THEY will miss him. THEY? THEY were the ones who never cheered. THEY were the ones who didn't try to help him with his recruiting. THEY were the ones who “could not” give him the number of scholarships he needed to do his job. THEY were those who took much in money and time, and gave what they had “left-over.” THEY were the ones so quick to criticize, yet so loathe to help. THEY were the players who could have won, and they, themselves, don't know why they didn’t. THEY were the ones who preached that it was not winning that mattered at Davidson, and yet fired him for not winning. THEY were the ones who quite asininely punned the page in the yearbook, lowering themselves and the book. I wonder who else THEY were—faculty, administration, alumni, students? I was. Whether he was a great coach is quite beside the point now. Would the lack of the THEYs have made any difference? I'm sure he joins with many others in hoping Coach Smith never has to wonder.

What does matter now is the man. Like I said, he’s leaving Monday. I've had many people tell me how much respect they have for him, how much they like him. I doubt many have told him—it’s just not done that way around here. But, for the boy who was promised his scholarship on his return from flunking out—in case he wasn't here, and for my own case—my Father had a heart attack. My Mother, not knowing who to call, got in touch with him and out of sheer panic left what to do up to him. He got Coach Shoe to drive me to High Point to the hospital that night, after which Coach Shoe had to turn right around and come back to DC. He handled all my class problems until I could be sure things were ok at home. How about the boys who have been hurt? He usually visited them several times a week. He usually picked them up from the hospital. I could go on and on with at least half a dozen similar cases—and there are probably many, many more about which I don't know.

I don’t want this to sound in any way like a pathetic appeal: that's just not his cup of tea. All it is, is a passing thought. I owe the man quite a bit—so do others. I guess the best way to end this would be to say, as he would say it, “he’s a hell of a nice guy.” And, he’s leaving Monday.

Jim Fuller
Davidson College

Advocated by the Fraternity Evaluation Committee are put into effect, the administration take a long look at its policies in regard to contemporary social mores and conduct. The situation as it is now is one which the school has created by its ultra-conservative, Victorian atmosphere. The students must have somewhere to turn if they don't wish to lead completely monastic lives—and they have turned to fraternities. If the administration would first be more realistic in its drinking and social policies and other areas mentioned above, and if it would enact changes allowing the students more social freedom, the fraternities would cease to play such a major part in campus life and proposals such as those recently brought forth would be much more readily accepted.

T. Heyward Carter, Jr.
Davidson College

With Once More Feeling
By TIM KIMREY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Wake Forest College, that school that the Baptists run with the fervor that makes our Presbyterian school-masters seem like anarchists, noted a wondrous break in tradition last weekend. It seems that there was a rather vocal group of students there who felt that Wake Forest was pitifully isolated from the world and all its doings (sound familiar?), and they decided to do something about it. The result was a forum on Civil Rights called “Challenge '65.” From all reports, the forum was a grand success. The list of speaking participants was impressive, including Senator Thomas Dodd, Russell Kirk, James Farmer, and Joan Baez, who donated her well-known voice in a splendid concert. Both conservative and liberal spokesmen had their say, and virtually every related topic was covered in the three-day conference. The amazing note of this whole thing is that “Challenge '65” was conceived, nurtured and presented by students—students who were interested enough to spend considerable time in talking, planning, and raising quite a sum of money from many sources to put the whole thing across. We commend those students at Wake Forest for their obvious concern and for making that concern real through “Challenge ’65.” And we would suggest that there is one way in which proud Davidson could learn a lesson from Wake Forest.

A platform suggestion made in Thursday's YMCA chapel made good sense, and we would like to see it carried through. Buck Lawrimore called for an inter-denominational ecumenically-minded fellowship group on this campus, to replace the presently competing Presbyterian, Methodist and Baptist groups. Aside from the obvious area of social concern and action, the “renewal” church is heading in the direction of ecumenicism, and such a non-denominational fellowship could provide local impetus for this exciting movement.

* * * * *

Speaking of excitement, it strikes me every time I read the newspaper reports about sick Selma and LBJ’s voting bill that this decade is a most exciting one to be living in. A revolution is sweeping the country under the title of “The Movement.” The President of the United States has delivered what amounts to an ultimatum to racists and states’ righters in the form of the Civil Right to Vote bill, which will end formal prejudice at the polls. And on the ecclesiastical scene, Roman Catholic and Protestant spokesmen alike are seriously conversing about such things as unity, renewal, and a real peace. Something tells me that the next ten years will find this country undergoing a metamorphosis in the areas of religion and race, the process and end results of which will stir the imagination and thrill the soul of even the most stagnant conservatives.

* * * * *

Quote of the week: “The members of the Supreme Court exhibited a wide range of ages: the oldest being about eighty and the youngest being about sixty. All the rest were in between.” From a lecture in History 74.

TULANE PROFESSOR SPEAKS
Doing Away With Greeks? Try A New Rathskeller

The establishment of a rathskeller at Tulane would be a first step towards a more university-oriented social life for the student, believes Dr. Henry L. Mason, head of the A&S Political Science Department.

“The university has only one function, and that is to work on people's minds, for the purpose of greater knowledge of the scientific, scholarly and moral truths of this world,” said Dr. Mason. “If at all possible, the students’ basic community at the university should relate itself to these purposes and should select its members on a basis related to these purposes.”

The present social structure at Tulane does not group the students along lines consistent with the ideals of the university. “The fraternities seem to select their members basically along the lines by which members of a country club are selected, which may be fine for country clubs, but it is bad for a university,” commented the instructor in international relations. “The result is that the students’ basic social community, if he is a fraternity member, does not reflect the university, and, if he is not a fraternity member, he has no basic social group available under the Tulane system.

“The rathskeller, therefore, would be a first step in the direction of an alternative to the fraternity group system, and it should be combined with other far-reaching reforms in the dormitories, along the lines of Oxford or Yale houses,” continued Dr. Mason. A small group is provided for the student in universities under the house system, a popular concept in parts of Europe. The house is oriented along academic goal lines, and the social life of the student is provided for because everyone has a small group into which he can fit.

“I grant that the fraternities fulfill the necessary role in providing a small group atmosphere for the student, but I feel that fraternities choose their members for the wrong reasons,” argued Dr. Mason. These reasons are based on life outside the sphere and scope of the university, rather than reasons based on the ideals and purposes of the university. All students need a small group, according to Dr. Mason, but at present they think they get it only by joining a fraternity.

“The rathskeller would be just one way by which the university would acknowledge responsibility in the social life of the student. By drinking beer, symbolically, at least, one part of the students’ social life is fulfilled by the university, rather than leaving that part of the students’ life to fraternities or to neighborhood establishments,” remarked the political science professor.

“One tremendous area of influence of the university should be at the level of the students’ life outside the classroom. At the outside classroom level we have left the field much too much to the fraternities,” stated Dr. Mason. However, Dr. Mason warns that by providing an alternative to the fraternities, the university has not solved all problems towards making Tulane more of a university and less a collection of classrooms.

“The rathskeller does not as such provide for this small communal living which is essential to the student. My opinion is that this university will have to do considerably more in the future to provide an intellectual and social atmosphere which properly relates itself to the purposes of the university.”

There have been attempts to create “houses” in the dormitories which would lead to the formation of small fraternity-like groups, but such attempts have not succeeded to any great extent. An important condition which the rathskeller must have before it can fulfill its social function is the right to serve alcoholic beverages, believes Dr. Mason. “If this condition is not filled, the money may be wasted, because the students do not need another place to buy cokes... they do not need another soda fountain.”

The Tulane Hullabaloo
by Johnny Hart