FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1965

Fleet Freshmen Capture Cakes

By LARRY NORFLEET
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Last Tuesday afternoon the freshmen of Davidson College emerged from their rooms and ventured out to Sprunt Field to sport their physical prowess in the annual Davidson Cake Race. After a false start by a few eager '69ers, the race finally got underway, and 297 flashing red beanies went traipsing through woods, down hills, up roads, and finally lapping the football field. There the first 70 finishers reached that long sought-after finish line and a delicious cake, provided by the female segment of Davidson's population.

In a dramatic finish, Mike Moats of Winnetka, Ill. beat out fellow freshman, Rand Phillips, at the wire by a split second. Moats finished the course in a time of 9:59. This was 1:24.5 off the record time set by Pete Ashcraft in 1948. Cross-country coach Heath Whittle ventured, “Ashcraft's record of 8:34.5 will probably never be broken.” Both Moats, a product of New Trier High School, and Phillips, who hails from Winston-Salem, have already been recruited by Coach Whittle as freshmen cross-country prospects.

This year’s honors for last place went to speedy Charles Skinner. Skinner, in a blazing finish, threatened to break the all-time record for last place when he strolled in some fifteen minutes later than the winner. In commenting on his valiant effort, Skinner said with a classical burst of freshman rationalization, “That takes the cake.”

Soccer Squad Shoots At Successful Season

The 1965 version of the Wildcat soccer squad seeks to better last year’s 7-4 record beginning October 1 here against Pembroke College. Coach Harry Fogleman commented, “The team has looked surprisingly good in the practices, which have consisted of drills on the fundamentals and of conditioning for the running involved in soccer.”

The strong point of the team will undoubtedly be the defense: Returning lettermen John Barnhardt and Kem Anderson will handle the goal while Glenn Hanes, Gus Brown, and Howard Morris will provide strength and experience at the fullback positions. Among the halfbacks, George Brown has looked strong in practice.

SOCCER COACH HARRY FOGLEMAN Itching To Start

Graduated star Jan Brakel will be missed on the line but Richardson Scholars Juergen Ewald and Peter Carnwath should provide scoring threats. Other standouts have been Lewis Foss, Lee Fanning, and Ben Nzengu. Coach Fogleman pointed out that he has been well pleased by the work that the sophomores have been doing. An eleven-game schedule will culminate with the Southern Conference tournament here on November 19-20. Home games with N. C. State, Furman, and Duke promise to be the big ones.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

STAMPEDING '69ERS RACE FOR FIRST BITE

By BRIGGS Sports Editor

BEG TO DIFFER

“I don’t think they are better coached,” said Furman’s head football mentor Bob King in Tuesday’s Columbia State. “Coach Bill Dole had some fine teams. They just have more talent to work with.”

I beg to differ. And I hope Mr. King shows this same lack of perceptiveness when he prepares his team for Saturday after he watches films of last week’s romp of a completely out-classed Presbyterian team.

Personnel-wise Davidson is made up of about the same natural ability (maybe not as much) that they had last year when they compiled a 3-6 record, or the year before when they were 1-5-2, or before that when they were 3-5-1. Anybody who has seen Davidson play very often the past few years had to be surprised by Saturday’s game. Even the “experts” who picked Davidson refused to give them more than a seven-point spread (with one notable exception).

However, Mr. King is right when he says we “have more talent to work with” this year. But he misses the point entirely by not realizing why.

Coach Smith and his staff have turned gripes into cheers not only on the sports page of THE DAVIDSONIAN, but also on the team. The enthusiasm generated has given the “same old players” new life and confidence; consequently, he gets more out of his players than they ever thought they could give a year ago.

So, you're right, Mr. King, there is more “talent” to work with. But did you ever miss the mark on your first observation. Davidson is obviously a better-coached team than last year’s, which shellacked your Purple Paladins 23-0. Not only do they play harder and better, but tens of little things stand out with this year’s “New Look.” Little things really highlight the difference, things like chancing a fake punt early in the game or like an on-sides kick to prevent a last-second kick-off return for a score in the first half (and maybe get back on the scoreboard ourselves in the process). Even things like clapping hands with every push-up, or uniformly breaking out of the huddle as the quarterback slaps his hands and rises from one knee, or all the defense kneeling on the same knee at the 35 before a kick-off. These little “unimportant” things give a team class, reflect confidence and precision, and shout to even the deafest idiot the effectiveness and ability of a new coach and his staff.

Maybe last year’s team could have stopped the obviously out-played, out-conditioned, and out-classed PC team that came here last weekend; maybe, but I'm not so sure, and I doubt by 35-0.

With a 1-0 record only a fool would dare jeopardize his predicting perfection. But I can’t resist the chance to say Davidson 21—Furman 13.

QUOTES FROM THE WEEK

“When I took over here, I knew there would be days like that,”—PC head football coach Cally Gault on last Saturday.

“We will have to make our decision as to whether or not to try to add temporary bleachers by the number of early requests for tickets, which we have,”—Davidson Athletic Director Tom Scott on football seating.

'Cats Open SC Slate

With Visit To Furman

Fresh from the sweet success of last week’s rout of PC, Homer Smith’s Wildcats journey to Sirrine Stadium, home of Furman’s Purple Paladins, in Greenville, S.C., for their first conference game tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. The Paladins, winners in a 51-14 romp over Frederick College last week, are, as Coach Homer Smith puts it, “going to be a real team, nothing like last year’s.” But he also expects the Wildcats to be sharper this week.

Last week’s play execution was hurt by the fact that the game itself was “the boys’ first scrimmage.” Nevertheless, the 35 points they racked up illustrated the potential power they will be ready to unleash against the Paladins Saturday.

Concerning Furman's individual power, first to be noted are quarterback Sammy Wyche and receiver Tim Crawford. Both boys are bucking for pro contracts. Wyche, who will direct his team from a pro-type offense, is known for his hot-dogging type play. He loves to fake-and-run, and as Coach Smith remarked about him, “He gives beautiful fakes, and the containers (ends) will have to watch him. Wyche is 100 percent improved over last year.” When the Paladins go to the air, as they surely will do, the number one target man will be Crawford, asplit end with fingers like glue. In the 35 meetings of the two teams, the 'Cats have been victorious only ten times, but at the same time are shooting to make it two in a row, tomorrow.

Jacobsen Shines In Cat Romp
By TOMMY COX
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The spring football scrimmage at the end of last year gave Davidson football fans, numb with the meager showings of previous seasons, a scintillating eagerness. The debut of coach Homer Smith’s “New Look,” a 35-0 rout of a good Presbyterian team, showed fans that Davidson had, if not a great team, the promise of one. More positively, it revealed that Jace Jacobsen, a question mark last spring, is a quarterback, and a fine one. Before suffering a rib separation in the last half, Jacobsen electrified the Richardson Field stands with pinpoint passing (seven for nine) and superb scrambling. This summer Jake worked with other college players from area schools on the weaknesses that he observed in the spring practice. Jake commented, “I worked on discipline as a passer instead of just throwing. I try to know and look for the sequence of receivers, not one man or an area.”

Angry ’Cats Devour Hapless Blue Hose

"We're thrilled with victory! We are especially pleased because we won convincingly even though the heat and the humidity proved to be as much an enemy as the opponents.” Homer Smith's words related what a sellout crowd of 8,000 fans at the Davidson-Presbyterian game saw from the stands. A fast-moving, hard-hitting Wildcat team streaked past the Blue Hose 35-0. Quarterback Jake Jacobsen piloted the ‘Cats to 395 total yards gained. Steve Smith, highly-touted fullback, had a fine day rushing with 93 net yards in 23 attempts. Pete Glidewell grabbed two passes from Jimmy Poole for touchdowns. Jacobsen hit Ken Kendall and Billy Taylor with scoring aerials. The only rushing marker was added by Johnny Walker on a scoring plunge. Jim Terry added all five conversions rounding out the 35-0 score.

The scoring only tells half the story of the game's success. A stout defensive team, led by captain Pack Hindsley, held PC to a mere 78 yards gained all day. This performance enabled the offensive team to keep possession of the ball most of the game. The Wildcats proved to be in top physical condition as they actually finished with more momentum than they had in the first half.

Jacobsen then began talking about the team and Coach Smith. “Coach Smith knows what he wants from us and from his formations. His pass systems, for instance, make it easy and natural for the passer to follow the sequence of receivers. He's worked hard and so has the team. We worked hard up at camp (the team was at Camp Carolina for pre-season drills). Everyone worked, even the players who knew they wouldn't be playing. That's the sort of attitude that makes for spirit and a good team."

Returning to the practice field, Jacobsen began loosening up with Jimmy Poole, talking the pass systems, and reciting formations — "Spread right, spread right I, spread right scissors." Whether or not the team’s season this year is a winning one, nine more games will show, but one thing is for sure, if they lose it won't be because of a lack of a field general.

Hindsley Selected Lineman Of Week

Wildcat captain Pack Hindsley was honored as the Southern Conference’s “Lineman of the Week” in a vote of Southern Conference sportswriters last Wednesday. Hindsley’s outstanding defensive play in Davidson's opening win over Presbyterian made him the first Davidson lineman in history to win the honor.

IMAC Flickerball Tilts Slowly Get Underway
By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Flickerball regained its annual prominence on the campus Wednesday as the season officially opened with the ATO’s overcoming a scrappy Independent team 18-14. Thursday’s action included only two games; the Kappa Sigs came back in the second half to defeat the Sigma Chi team after being behind by 6 points at the half, and the SAE’s slipped by the Pikas 25-19.

Last year's flickerball season champions, the Kappa Sigs, according to defensive man Tommy Cox, are planning to “win ’em all again this year," even though they will have a “big hole to fill at tailback from Buddy Dubose, who graduated last year.” The Phi Gams, however, behind the arm of Dan Sweet and the pass-catching of David King and Rusty Brannon, have drawn a bead on the Kappa Sigs and, according to Charlie Perry, “will finish high.” Jim Appleby rates the Sigma Chis as possible contenders, stating that the team is composed of basically the same group as last year and that it will have a strong rush despite the loss of some speed. Geordie Mueller, picked by Appleby as “the best tailback in the league,” will be calling the signals.

The Pi Kapps, say quarterback Tuck Jones, will be playing a lot of sophomores, but will be looking for some good plays from ends Charlie Taylor and Paul Curlee. The SAE’s rate their defense as a strong point, according to Barry Bishop. They will lean heavily on the tailbacking of Mike Booe. Danny Layman, halfback for the Sig Eps, rates his team as lacking somewhat in depth and speed, but regards them nevertheless as possible dark horses.

Dave Townsend of the ATO's was somewhat more reluctant to make a prediction about his team’s future—"There’s really no way to tell for sure how we'll stand because there are going to be a lot of upsets this year." The KA seven “have been working real hard and are much improved over last year,” says Tommy Hunter enigmatically. No doubt they will count highly on Grey Winfield.

The Phi Delts are likewise emphasizing the value of practices. According to Ronnie Hunt, “Just like Homer Smith, what we lack in material, we plan to make up for by conditioning and precision training.” Frank Powell lists the Betas’ defensive unit as their strong point, citing a pre-season scrimmage game in which the defense intercepted five passes. Powell termed his team a “light, fast group directed by a versatile tailback, Jack Sherrill.”

Ed Winslow, center for the Pikas, characterized his team as being “intense and tight.” John Gresham and Bob O’Kelley are expected by their teammates to be standouts. Jim Clark lamented the Independents’ slow start in getting organized, but predicted that “once we get rolling, we should be pretty good.”

Sigma Nu Dave White bemoaned his team’s loss of its best tailback to the junior year abroad program, but found hope for the team in the performance of the Nu ends, John Mason and Bill Barnette.

Because of the deferred rush plan currently in effect, IMAC President Tommy Hunter announced, flickerball teams have been set up in freshmen dorms—two teams each from Cannon and East and one from Watts. The freshmen, who will have their own IMAC representative, will be organized into groups by their hall representatives and will play only other freshmen. Hunter pointed out that the frosh slate, which begins Monday, will have its own champion and its own season trophy.