PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN

Committee Hits Policies In Curriculum Report

By MIKE HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Davidson College still does not enroll enough men of superior intellectual potential, nor does it encourage enough independent intellectual effort
from its students, according to the report of the Educational Program Committee of the Self-Study Committee.

The committee drew these conclusions from a far-ranging study of Davidson’s academic status, considering admissions policies through analyses of both
curriculum and grading, all the way to graduate school acceptances and analyses of the intellectual atmosphere.

The committee report charged that most Davidson students were too immature to accept responsibility for intellectual development. The fraternity system
was singled out in particular as one factor discouraging intellectual growth.

In concluding that neither faculty nor curriculum brought out the talents of the “few really outstanding young men in its
student body,” the committee cited several departments, particularly with respect to the number of men they sent to graduate schools.

The Chemistry Department was praised both for their work in sending a number of men into distinguished graduate work and
for the “aggressive enthusiasm” of its members. The Physics Department was said to be doing an adequate but average job.
At the same time, the Biology Department was hit for not managing to average even one man per year into
graduate study.

The departments of history and English were accused of providing majors primarily for men without a specific vocational objective and
for future theologians. The two departments also were said to be planning both curriculum and course sequence revisions.

Petitions urging the abolition of Saturday classes sprouted in the dorms and fraternity houses this past week in a further
attempt to secularize the Davidson campus. Originally begun as a facetious reply to a faculty member's facetious challenge, the movement,
as described by instigator Graham Yarborough, is an “informal student opinion poll, not an order for a change in the
scheduling system.”

The petition reads “that Saturday classes be abolished and that, in order to accomplish this end, Tuesday and Thursday classes
be adjusted in length.” Pinckney Whitson, who along with Yarborough devised the petition, felt that the most logical rescheduling plan
would be to have three classes on Tuesday and Thursday, each lasting one hour and 15 minutes. Chapel would be
shifted to Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.

“In the hour and 15 minute classes you learn more,” Whitson stated. “In 50 minute classes you spend too much
time getting settled, taking roll, and just getting started. This way you could spend more time learning, not wasting time.”

Whitson and Yarborough, both seniors, agreed that most of the younger professors and those professors who have taught at schools
without Saturday classes are in favor of the plan. Whitson feels that there is about a 50 percent chance of
passing a faculty vote.

According to Whitson, the petitions would be taken straight to the faculty at their next meeting. At present, the student
government is not directly involved in this movement, although Whitson also said that a Student Council committee is looking into
the problem.

The petitions were to remain in the dorms and fraternity houses throughout the week. According to Whitson and Yarborough, support
by one-half of the student body is necessary for faculty consideration. Whitson noted that most of the petitions were filling
rapidly.

Yarborough reported that most of the freshmen “really liked the plan. In Belk, however, the idea did not go over
very well. Perhaps the upperclassmen have just grown wary of petitions.”

If accepted, the plan probably would not go into effect until next year because of rescheduling red tape, especially in
the Humanities sections. The outcome of the movement, if passed, would be primarily in the social area. “It would leave
more time for Friday night dates,” said Whitson. “Friday nights are usually wasted as it is. The social life would
be much simpler, abolishing the dilemma between going to class on Saturday or indulging in social activities.”

The whole idea was inspired in one of Dr. W. G. McGavock's math classes, according to Yarborough. “Dr. McGavock was
lamenting his missing a fishing trip because of teaching obligations over the weekend,” Yarborough recalled. McGavock, when questioned about his
role in the new movement, replied that he does not wish to be formally associated with the plan.

The work of juniors and seniors was described as “not sufficiently demanding” and the upperclassmen themselves were cited as having
an excessive interest in social activities. Increased emphasis on seminar and independent research programs were urged as solutions to this
problem.

The committee report stated that the general quality of students entering Davidson was slowly improving but that there were still
serious problems in prospective majors. The committee asked whether there were too many pre-meds being admitted and wondered whether it
was healthy to have 73 percent of the senior majors concentrated in four departments (pre-med, economics and business administration, history,
and English).

As could have been expected, the report strongly criticized Davidson’s intellectual atmosphere, but admitted its lack of evidence with which
to realign Davidson's academic structure and to prepare better the number of men going to graduate school. The committee made
many suggestions, several of them of immediate interest.

A test in English composition to be administered during the second semester of the sophomore year was recommended for graduation,
along with remedial English courses to be taken without credit for students failing the test. Also for graduation, each student
should be required to make a certain score on the Graduate Record examination of his major or its equivalent—this program
to be instituted immediately. Comprehensive examinations administered by persons from outside the college were strongly endorsed. Such changes would revolutionize
Davidson’s present graduation requirements.

Compulsory ROTC would be dropped under the new program. Core requirements for graduation would also be...

(Continued From Page One)

—That a major academic scholarship be established to be awarded irrespective of financial need. A minority of the Student Personnel
Committee is recorded as favoring the continuation of the current policy of relating scholarship aid to the candidate's financial need.

A steering committee for the Self-Study was appointed in late summer of 1963. This group in turn divided the faculty
into eight committees and named a chairman for each. The various committees’ reports were then submitted to, and compiled by,
the Steering Committee. Every faculty member who had been at Davidson for at least a year served on a committee.
Members of the administration and staff were called on for information and suggestions. Heading the entire study as executive secretary
was Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, professor emeritus of physics.

Copies of the report have been in the hands of the accreditation committee from the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools since Oct. 21. Faculty and administration members received their copies Friday. Dr. Pietenpol says that copies will be available
to students through the library by the end of this week. Dr. Pietenpol emphasizes that the committee’s recommendations are to
be considered as such, and that each one will be considered for adoption as college policy.

Office Supplies
* Advertising Specialties
* Business Machines
* Business Forms
* Calendars
* Typewriters
EVERYTHING FOR THE OFFICE
SEE US
J. ED McNEELY
McNEELY'S OFFICE SUPPLIES
Dial 662-2211
128 S. Main St.Revised: Twelve semester hours to be chosen from the departments of economics, history, political science, psychology, sociology.
Twelve semester hours: Six hours from the Bible and Religion Department to be chosen, along with six hours from Bible
courses above 11-12 or New Testament Greek or Philosophy of Religion. Twenty-four semester hours: to be chosen as follows: six
hours, English 11-12; six hours to be chosen from literature, foreign language literature, or history and appreciation of art; twelve
hours of foreign language through the 22 level unless satisfied by Advancement tests. Fourteen semester hours: as follows: six hours
of Mathematics, eight hours of a laboratory science. Other suggestions were principally of an administrative nature, but important was the
recommendation that Davidson drop its plans to introduce a Master's Degree program and instead improve the present undergraduate programs.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1965

Birch Society Member
By T. CARTER FUSSELL
Davidsonian Staff Writer

John H. Rousselot, National Director of Public Relations for the John Birch Society, will speak in chapel Dec. 1 on
“The John Birch Society, Its Principles and Programs.” Rousselot, a native Californian, holds a BA in political science and business
administration from Principia College, Elsah, IL. He has been a vigorous opponent of communism and socialism and a strong advocate
of uncompromising adherence to the basic principles of limited government and individual freedom. Rousselot has served in Congress as Representative
from California.

Strategy Expert Looks At Warfare Problems
By AL VARNER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The Davidson Audience received a new twist in its regular diet of chapel speakers Tuesday. What was a little different
in this instance was that Dr. Paul W. Blackstock, PhD from American University and associate professor of international studies at
the University of South Carolina, had organized his interesting generalities and actually stuck to his three-point outline. This outline was
a chronological one which dealt with his topic, military strategy.

The first point of the outline dealt with historical and traditional military strategy. In the past, according to Dr. Blackstock,
the world system has been based on tangible power. Countries didn’t have permanent friends, only permanent interests in ways to
gain power. Strong countries were balanced by coalitions of weak nations, as evidenced in the two world wars. Blackstock stated:
“Power, like wealth, is scarce,” and “every nation has a dynamic force which propels it to seek power.” This dynamic
force is based on 1) maintaining the country’s autonomy and freedom, 2) building a strong economy and 3) gaining power
for the sake of power. But the most important concept of traditional military strategy was that war was considered an
integral part of deterrence. Armed forces were used not only to deter, but possibly to defeat the enemy by inflicting
“unacceptable damage.” In World War II, this unacceptable damage consisted of killing only four or five per cent of the
population of the Axis Powers. Thus in the past, the selfish goals of individual countries automatically worked for the good
of the world, but unfortunately, this set-up eventually led to war.

In the present, though, war is definitely not a theoretical certainty. Today, deterrence is based on possibilities. This situation, or
strategy, is due to the awesome power of the atomic bomb. The bomb forms a “strategic thermonuclear deterrent” which is
completely opposite from the classical idea of an active, kinetic deterrent. Today, the United States and Russia, the world’s greatest
powers, are at a complete stalemate. Neither side can win by war and so negotiation (not appeasement) is the only
recourse.

JOHN H. ROUSSELOT

Vespers To Feature Controversial Film

The controversial film “Parable” will be shown as part of the Vespers services Sunday at 7:30 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium.
The film, starring master pantomimist Marcel Marceau, is in color and lasts 22 minutes; its showing will take the place
of the sermon. First shown at the Protestant-Orthodox Center at the New York World's Fair, the film has since been
the center of a considerable amount of controversy. The script, written by a Buddhist, has been attacked for its alleged
tastelessness in portraying Christ as a clown.
