PAGE FOUR - | | dll (Photo by Sproul)

EX-EDITOR DIBBLE RELAXES WITH MAGAZINE

Becomes Introspective After Liberation

Patterson Returns, Cites Need For US Initiative, Foresight

By JOHN McCLATCHEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Dr. Ernest Patterson returned in chapel Tuesday. His critical commentary on our times and problems was well received, though it was first prepared some 17 years ago. One mark of its relevancy now was the fact that it was greeted then “by fainting and epileptic seizure,” while it was accompanied Tuesday by laughter and applause and even a tape recorder.

Patterson first asserted the need for the United States to take the lead in establishing peace, freedom, and prosperity as soon as possible. A solution for increasing skepticism to help democracy. One should not always join the group, for then he is not able to criticize as effectively or as loudly. He pointed to McCarthyism as an example of over-zealous belief in democracy killing democracy itself. We must be awake to the dangers to freedom, from the House Un-American Activities Committee to the Ku Klux Klan. We must develop new ends of sacrificing the have's for the have-not’s was alluded to. Ernie then launched into a tirade against Henry Luce and the irresponsibility of the press, referring to his burgeoning file of irresponsible press material.

ERNEST F. PATTERSON

FUTURE ENEMIES

He pointed out the necessity for looking past the Russians in searching for enemies. We must begin to think about the Red Chinese, the Asians, the Africans, and the Latin Americans. There was some organized line of antagonistic succession developed. The problems of the American democracy were then discussed. Students’ Adoptions Increase In Number

Apparently in response to a need for companionship sorely missing from the college community, the Easter season has brought an influx of pets to the halls of Davidson. Two unidentified juniors are maintaining a duck named “Claps” — in honor of a fraternity brother's girl. The two pledged to be good parents... “no dates until he's old enough but we'll have him smoking and dancing in two months.” The two proud parents take “Claps” on excursions to “the soothing waters of Lake Norman.” With typical parental concern, they were critical of the techniques of their peers. Two chickens residing down the hall, they reported, were being brought up to be fighters. “They're mean because they're not fed and because their owner continually throws them into the air and lets them flutter down...” Their names were unprintable. Word was received about two other ducks (one a gift from Converse) and a cat being maintained on campus. Nothing larger was uncovered but as was pointed out “... a pet doesn’t have to be large to be companionable.”

Aitken To Play Bach, Buxtehude

The Davidson College Music Department will present S. William Aitken, class of ’66, in an organ recital Sunday, April 25, at 4 p.m. in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The public is invited. Aitken, a graduate of Dobyns-Bennett High School, Kingsport, Tennessee, is the son of Mrs. Margaret M. Aitken of Kingsport and the late Mr. S. C. Aitken. A music major and, for the last three years, recipient of a music scholarship, he is on the staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN and is also a member of

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

In the fall of 1960, hidden deep within the ranks of the class of '65, was an obscure little freshman named Charles Lemmon Dibble. Today this same Charles Dibble is known to all as one of the “biggest men on campus” and the “Editorial Voice of Davidson College,” the editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN. But, alas, Charley’s days of editorial glory are over and he has been forced to retire into the same semi-obscurity from which he arose.

In the past year Charley has enlarged THE DAVIDSONIAN to a regular six-page issue, while improving the quality tremendously. His work in this direction was so able, in fact, that he has gained for THE DAVIDSONIAN an All-American rating among college newspapers for 1964-65.

SHARP EDITORIALS

The outstanding feature of every “Dibble paper” was its editorials, always sharp and to the point, even if seldom agreed with. The main editorial issue was the fraternity question. Every week, from Young's first talk in chapel, new developments and opinions were presented both in news and editorial form. The climax of this coverage came in the issue of March 12 when editor Dibble finally expressed himself editorially as endorsing “without qualification the report of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee.” This was one of the most difficult things Dibble had ever done, for, as he himself said in that editorial:

“Without any doubt, this editorial has caused us more pain and anguish than any other statement in the past year, and not without reason. Our association with the fraternity system has always been friendly, and in our four years at Davidson our relationship with the system has been increasingly close.”

A DELICATE POSITION

Needless to say, this editorial aroused feelings on both sides of the delicate position in which he had placed himself, as he had known it would. Some criticized him for taking advantage of the system and then “stabbing it in the back.” (Dibble, while not a member of a fraternity, is an affiliate of two different campus fraternities.) Others accused him of using THE DAVIDSONIAN as a platform for his own views, instead of those of the student body. Still others applauded his decisiveness and courage to say and print exactly what he thought on this important issue. None, however, could deny that in all the weeks since the issue first arose it had been treated fairly and impartially by THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Now that it is all over and the cares and duties of editorship have been lifted from him, Dibble can be seen wandering around campus or up at Hattie’s with a vague look of restlessness in his eyes, and a readiness to give his views on any subject at all, whether he is conversant with it or not. In regards to his successor and staff Dibble stated “His (Todd's) first paper was a very good paper (for a first paper). His second paper was as good as anything he'll put out next year... he is doing a good job.”

LOOKING AHEAD

The only answer he gave when asked if his year at the helm

The students were more than happy to have an enjoyable chapel, as Dr. Patterson's always are. His closing poem deserves quotation:

Hush-a-bye baby, down in the ground,
When the bomb bursts, you won't hear a sound.
You'll come to no harm from the trouble and strife,
Provided you stay here the rest of your life.the Eumenean Literary Society. He has served as vice-president of the local chapter of the American Guild of Organists, and is presently the organist and choirmaster of the Davidson Methodist Church. Aitken will play the Buxtehude chorale-prelude "Hail the Day so Rich in Cheer" and "Fugue a la Gigue in C Major," "The Dorian Toccata" and the chorale-prelude "If Thou But Suffer God to Guide Thee" by J. S. Bach, and "Pastorale" by Cesar Franck. Other works programmed include the Paul Hindemith "Sonata II" and Marcel Dupre’s "Magnificat."

Three Brothers
TAVERN OWNERS: Chuck, Sam, and Ted
Dining and Dancing
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

...rest of your life. If it had been worth it was "Definitely," but his reply to how he felt now that it is out of his hands was a forceful, "Liberated!" At the present Dibble claims he is suffering from an acute case of spring fever which, he claims, is rare for him because, "In previous years I have had to ignore all the frightening symptoms of spring fever, risking my health for THE DAVIDSONIAN. This year I must be more introspective and take care of myself." His interests now have turned to "the pending trustee meeting... the lake... classes... causes... Hattie’s" and getting out of Davidson. He is "counting on finishing this summer," but expresses some amount of question as to whether he really will or not. The main reason is THE DAVIDSONIAN, but he also blames the "very bad attitude toward those subjects in the curriculum I have taken." Even when he has interested himself in a particular subject he feels that it is the "Omnipotent Clock" which has deprived him of the time to pursue these interests.

FUTURE PLANS
Dibble’s plans for the future, provided that he gets out of Davidson, are indefinite. He hopes to go to the University of Virginia Law School, and if not, "I'll work awhile, travel awhile, newspaper work... anything I can get in the way of a job. Future? Either law or journalism... nothing definite any time soon." In looking back over his entire career at Davidson, Dibble summed it up by saying, "At Davidson I have done what I have wanted to do. Consequently, I think I have gotten a very good liberal arts education while compiling an outstanding record as an 'underachiever'."

Stitt Will Preach At Sunday Service
Dr. David Stitt, president of Austin Theological Seminary, Austin, Texas, will speak at Vespers Sunday night. Stitt, a native of Fort Worth, Texas, attended Texas Christian University and was graduated from Austin College. He did his graduate work at Austin Theological Seminary. Before assuming his present position, Stitt held pastorates in Texas and Missouri. He was guest speaker for Davidson's baccalaureate service last year. His son, David Tillman Stitt, '64, was editor-in-chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN during his senior year.

Dr. Hugh Anderson, professor of Biblical Criticism and Theology, Duke University Divinity School, will be the 1965 Otts Lecturer in Religion at Davidson April 28-29. He will speak on "The Question of the Historical Jesus and the Character of Our Sources" on Wednesday evening at 7:30 in the Morrison Room. Thursday, Anderson will address the student body in chapel.

(Staff Photo by Johnson)
OLD McDONALD HAD A DUCK
With a Quack - Quack Here in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet At the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Open 'til 1 a.m. Monday—Friday
Charlotte, N.C.

Hub
LAKESIDE INN
Fish Camp
"We are eager to serve the students of Davidson College either individually or in semi-private or private parties"
Highway 115 South: Turn Right Just before Fox Drive-in Theater
Open Tuesday through Saturday from 5 p.m.
For reservations: Charlotte 377-2701 — 596-2711
(Under New Management)

His talk, "Behind the Gospels," will be followed by a coffee hour in the Union. That evening at 7:30 in the Morrison Room, he will speak on "The Yesterday of Jesus and the Today of Faith." Anderson is brought to Davidson by the Otts Lectureship, established in 1893 for the purpose of securing distinguished speakers in support of the Christian faith. Originator J. M. P. Otts delivered the first series of lectures himself, and has been followed by such speakers as Dr. L. R. Dabney, Dr. J. B. Shearer, Dr. Elton Trueblood, Dr. George H. Buttrick, Dr. James I. McCord, and Dr. Joseph Sittler. Said Dr. Lewis Schenck, chairman of Davidson's Bible Department, "Dr. Anderson, who speaks with the accent of his native Scotland, is an example of the kind of outstanding man in the field of theology that the Otts Lectureships were designed to bring to the campus."

Born in Galston, Scotland, Anderson attended Kilmarnock Academy and Glasgow University, where he obtained a MA, BD, and PhD. The Classics and Semitic Languages received special attention in his work on the MA, and he conducted later studies at Oxford University. Anderson served as a chaplain with the British Army in Egypt and Palestine from 1944 to 1946. He then returned to the University of Glasgow to become a lecturer in Hebrew and Old Testament. From 1951 to 1957, when he joined the Duke faculty, Anderson served as minister of Trinity Presbyterian Church in Glasgow. Having traveled extensively in Europe and the Near East, he is a member of such organizations as the Glasgow University Oriental Society, Society of Biblical Literature and Studiorum Novi Testamenti Societas. Anderson is married and has three children. He is also considered one of Scotland's outstanding soccer players of all times. His publications, besides numerous articles in religious journals, include: Psalms I-XLI, Historians of Israel, and Jesus and Christian Origins. He has preached in many of the larger churches in this country including the National Cathedral, Washington; First Presbyterian Church, Hollywood, California; and St. Thomas Episcopal Church, New York City.

TATE-BROWN’S 3 NATURAL SHOULDER SHOPS SALUTE THE SPRING FROLICS
GANT SHIRTS
Select your Gant shirts from Tate-Brown’s fine collection... like the Hugger with tapered body for the Authentic Traditional look... in White, Blue, Linen and Maize. SOLIDS, $6.50 - STRIPES, $6.95

PALOMINO WEEJUNS
A popular favorite with Davidsonians, this cool casual now comes in handsome, dove-like Palomino... a fresh color that will do wonders for your wardrobe. by Bass! $15.95 Weejuns

Visit Tate-Brown’s 3 conveniently located Natural Shoulder Shops including the beautiful, all new third floor, downtown at 126 South Tryon Street
THIRD FLOOR, DOWNTOWN (FREE PARKING AT REAR)
PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER
COTSWOLD — WEST MALL