MIDWINTERS PLANS ANNOUNCED (See Page Three) VOL. LIV. CLINTAIN The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 1965 ‘CATS VICTORIOUS IN GARDEN (See Page Five) NUMBER FOURTEEN DR. ARTHUR S.
LINK Dr. Arthur S. Link, noted authority on Woodrow Wilson and Professor of History at Princeton University, will address the
student body Monday on “The Historical Implications of the Elections of 1964.” As part of the YMCA's Great Issues Program,
Link will examine the election in light of problems such as the growth of liberalism since F. D. Roosevelt and
the future of the Republican Party. After graduating from the University of North Carolina in 1941 and obtaining his PhD
there in 1945, he taught at North Carolina State College for a year and at Northwestern University for 11 years.
In 1958-59 he was Harmsworth Professor at Oxford University, and has been at Princeton since then. Link is Director of
Princeton’s proposed 40-volume Woodrow Wilson papers. In addition, he is the author of several books on that president, including two
which were awarded the Bancroft Prize for the best biography of the year: Wilson, the New Freedom in 1956, and
Wilson: The Struggle for Neutrality, 1914-1915 in 1960. Others include Wilson: The Road to the White House, Woodrow Wilson and
the Progressive Era, and Wilson, the Diplomatist. He is currently working on the fourth volume to his Wilson biography, Wilson:
The Road to War, 1915-1917. Link has also written several other books on American history, including Problems in American History,
Our Republic’s History, and American Epoch: A History of the United States Since the 1890's, which is used as the
text for History 73, 74. In addition to speaking at Assembly Monday, Link will hold an informal discussion at a
coffee hour immediately following his assembly talk. He will also lecture to the History 73 class at 8:20 Monday morning.
Link's son, Stan, is a member of the Freshman Class at Davidson.

Former Professor Dies In Charlotte The Rev. Charles Malone Richards, long-time Davidson professor, died Christmas in a Charlotte hospital. Dr.
Richards was born in Liberty Hill, S.C., in 1871, the son of the Rev. and Mrs. J. G. Richards. Dr.
Richards was graduated from Davidson in 1892 and from Columbia Theological Seminary in 1895. The next year he was ordained
as a Presbyterian minister, and he served as an active pastor until 1926. His pastorates included a country circuit in
South Carolina and the First Presbyterian Church in Statesville. He became a part-time professor at Davidson in 1917 while serving
as pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. In 1926 he became a full-time professor of Bible. After his retirement
in 1944, he served for 15 years as a supply preacher to many churches without ministers. Dr. Richards was awarded
a Doctorate of Divinity by Davidson College and a Doctor of Laws degree by Hampden-Sydney College. He was a member
of Kappa Alpha Order, ODK, and Phi Beta Kappa, and was included in Who's Who in America. Funeral services were
conducted on Monday, Dec. 28 at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Burial followed in Sumter, S.C.

NOTICE! Facing examinations, the staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN announces that this is the last issue scheduled for this semester. Resumption
of regular publication will occur immediately after the beginning of next semester with the next issue scheduled for Friday, February
5.

DRAWS COLD RESPONSE Gasper Analyzes Latins Dr. Edmund Gasper swept through the Davidson campus last Tuesday in something less than
a blaze of glory. His reception was somewhat reminiscent, in fact, of that given to poet Allen Dugan last month,
who commented, “This is the deadest place I've been.” Gasper spent a day at Davidson, speaking in chapel, talking with
faculty, and participating in a forum-style discussion with the father of Project for the Americas (PRAM), Fred Ehlers. A look
at Gasper’s record immediately establishes his position of authority on Latin American topics: He lived and traveled in Latin America
from 1949 to 1964, after being purged from his post in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of his native Hungary.
He holds a doctorate degree in law earned in Budapest, and at present serves as Deputy Secretary General for the
Assembly of Captive European Nations. He is the Assembly’s expert on Latin American affairs. Unfortunately for the Davidson student body,
Gasper holds no degrees in public speaking. Handicapped initially by a heavy accent, Gasper accumulated a second strike against himself
by speaking in a dull monotone which made it impossible for even an interested listener to concentrate. By speaking only
in terms of over-worked, oft-repeated phrases and ideas, Gasper managed to strike out completely. The already myriad ranks of chapel
sleepers increased three-fold. Gasper's reception Tuesday evening was, if possible, even more unenthusiastic. Fred Ehlers commented, however, that the two-way
discussion was “very interesting.” He admitted that Gasper was no speaker, but stated, “In my opinion, he’s a tremendous expert.
He said things the students have to realize.” Ehlers also felt that the student body hadn't given Gasper a fair
chance before going to sleep. “They go to hear a bad speaker,” he said. According to Ehlers, the evening discussion
was much more informative than the chapel talk. Gasper suggested to him that the US needs less materialistic interest in
Latin America and a greater cultural exchange. “A kind of cultural Peace Corps” was the way he expressed it. Gasper
also felt that the US should have real experts in Latin America, not ones who have lived there for five
or six months and then consider themselves informed. These experts, once installed, should determine that American money is being used
for the proper things, specifically, social reforms. Ehlers and Gasper agreed that if the free world doesn’t offer such reforms,
Latin American intellectuals will turn to the Communists. “Already,” stated Ehlers, “they're beginning to like social reform governments.” The problem
is a valid one, and the fact that Gasper could not communicate it to his audience makes it none the
less pressing. It is unfortunate that a case needs to be made for better public speaking.

Students Overwhelmingly Adopt New Trunk Proposal Council Members Vow Stricter Enforcement By FRANK FLEMING Davidsonian Staff Writer Davidson students in
Thursday's referendum adopted the newly-proposed drinking rule change by a vote of 360 to 15. The referendum provides for the
adoption of the following amendment to be added to the end of Article VIII, Section 2 of the Student Body
Constitution: “For the purpose of enforcing this regulation with specific regard to the possession of alcoholic liquors, the trunks of
automobiles shall not be covered by the term ‘campus.’” The amendment, having been proposed by the Student Council on Dec.
15 and read aloud to the student body on Dec. 17, will go into effect as of Friday, Jan. 8.Rule,
Dick Bates, Honor Court chairman, clarified the meaning of the amendment by explaining that the phrase “trunks of automobiles” will
include “only the trunks of standard passenger cars. Therefore, for the purposes of enforcement of this regulation, the Honor Court
does not consider such automobiles as station wagons to have legitimate trunks.”

Bates commented, “Anyone with some question about this regulation and its application to him or to his car should check
with the Honor Court or Council.” President Will Jackson explained that the rule legalizes only the possession of alcohol in
trunks. However, “actual drinking in a trunk would still be illegal."

EARLIER PROPOSAL

The entire question involving the drinking rule goes back to October when several concerned students recognized the problem of increased
drinking on campus. An earlier proposal to correct this was rejected in a Dec. 17 referendum because of its ambiguity,
absurd loopholes, and interpretative weaknesses.

However, further cooperation between the faculty and Council led to a plan which legalizes the trunk as a place to
store alcoholic beverages. Their intended purpose is that such a rule should discourage the possession of alcohol in the dormitories
or fraternity houses. As a result, it should curtail actual drinking on campus.

POLICY STATEMENT

Accompanying the amendment is a new declaration of policy in which the Council and the Honor Court are pledged to
“support and enforce” the new regulation, even to the extent of “searching dormitory rooms or fraternity houses.” The Council asks
the cooperation of the student body in complying with the rule. “Since an alternate storage place for liquors has been
provided, there should be no excuse for keeping alcohol anywhere else.” Thus, the Council and Honor Court hope to minimize
any future violations.

Will Terry Outlines His View Of ‘Modern Christian College’
By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

College Chaplain Will Terry forsook his familiar quips Wednesday night as he talked seriously with students and faculty about the
definition and purpose of the modern Christian college. He spoke in the Union’s Open End, first outlining the experts’ opinions
of a Christian college, then giving a profile on the American student.

A Christian college, he said, is an institution “grounded in the realization of the personal, creating, loving God of Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob," and “terminating in Jesus." It sees man as a being of “freedom, responsibility, and love." The college
incorporates Truth, the mutual ideal of both the Classical and the Christian traditions, into its purpose. It does not, added
Terry, give “mere information” nor a “goal of intellect," but gives the student “confidence in his destiny.”

To attempt to define the Christian college specifically, Terry first said what it is not, and then what it is.
A college is not Christian merely “because of its publicity, because it has required chapel, because it is connected with
a Christian church organization or because its faculty is Christian.” It is not permissive or “wishy-washy” or judgmental. It does
not have the same function as the church. Rather, it teaches an integrating faith in Christian ideals, confessing Christ's “supreme
value in history.” The aim and spirit of Christ are incorporated in its policy. It is a “school of higher
learning forming a Christian academic community, with its goal being the search for Truth, the knowledge of God in the
universe."

The member of such a community is, in a sense, an evangelist, continued Terry. It is the school's duty to
educate, in order that it might produce not only ministers, but also churchmen, who will actually “challenge the church from
the pew,” to invigorate the faith.

Terry then described the relationship between students and faculty on the Christian campus by what he called “comradery.” He said
that the two should work together in the Christian spirit, sharing “as colleagues, not as antagonists.” “The faculty,” he said,
“are the key to the Christian college; they hold the most influence over the students.” They must be “proficient in
their field, have a Christian commitment, and a feeling of responsibility for their students.” Localizing, Terry said he would encourage
attendance at chapel and vespers for the faculty as well as the students—an act of communion.

Regarding required attendance by students at chapel and vespers, Terry recognized points for and against, but ended by saying that
the services centralize worship, establish rapport between students and faculty, and, what is more, are a part of the total
curriculum of the college.

Moving into his outline of the American student, Terry brought up the role of fraternities in the Christian campus. He
remarked that if the ideals of brotherhood and fellowship were upheld, the fraternities would be an integral part of the
Christian college. If the fraternity “uplifts rather than tears down,” its role on campus would enrich the student body and
the college, but if it is founded on prejudice, racial or otherwise, it cannot be a part of a Christian
college.

Using the research of University of Pennsylvania professor Philip Jacobs, Terry profiled the American student. He stated that the modern
student comes from a generally common mold, and college does little to change this mold. He is characterized by “self-centeredness,
disinterest in social problems, and a need to believe in something." However, this need to believe is too often satisfied
by deism, and not by a definite faith, which the Christian college tries to teach. Few students today, said Terry,
“are able to integrate religion and life.” Their early religious training is a remote memory, probably sweet but not of
any great consequence in their lives. The student's moral code is usually guided by convention, or what his actions will
do to his image. His basic patterns have already been established, and college usually does not alter them.

In a brief question period, when asked whether the Christian college could compete with the non-Christian, Terry replied: “In the
South, Davidson is now competing very well, although in the future, it is evident that the state universities will make
the largest advances. The same is true in the North where such schools as Haverford and Swarthmore are leaders academically
among schools of their same size."

GRADE POINT AVERAGES — MID-SEMESTER, FALL 1964

| FRATERNITY | NO. | 1963-64 Avg. | OVERALL | NO. PLEDGES |
| (1) Sigma Chi | 1.70 | 66 | 1.65 (3) | 20 | 1.76 (3) |
| (2) Sigma Nu | 1.63 | 50 | 1.66 (2) | 15 | 1.63 (10) |
| (3) Sigma Phi Epsilon | 1.58 | 75 | 1.50 (6) | 26 | 1.72 (5) |
| (4) Kappa Sigma | 1.58 | 65 | 1.22 (9) | 11 | 1.64 (9) |
| (5) Pi Kappa Phi | 1.573 | 70 | 1.55 (5) | 29 | 1.57 (12) |
| (6) Kappa Alpha | 1.57 | 49 | 1.72 (1) | 15 | 1.61 (11) |
| (7) Sigma Alpha Epsilon | 1.55 | 57 | 1.37 (7) | 22 | 1.72 (6) |
| (8) Pi Kappa Alpha | 1.53 | 60 | 1.18 (11) | 17 | 1.75 (4) |
| (9) Beta Theta Pi | 1.52 | 57 | 1.60 (4) | 17 | 1.79 (2) |
| (10) Phi Gamma Delta | 1.48 | 68 | 1.32 (8) | 32 | 1.65 (8) |
| (11) Alpha Tau Omega | 1.44 | 64 | 1.19 (10) | 18 | 1.81 (1) |
| (12) Phi Delta Theta | 1.39 | 58 | 1.01 (12) | 13 | 1.68 (7) |
| Lingle Manor Independents* | 1.35 | 1.56 |

*Lingle Manor members included in Independent average

Numbers in parentheses by pledge averages and 1963-64 averages indicate rank within those categories.
