Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN TODD
Editor-in-Chief

IRVINE WELLING
Business Manager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

The Concept Of Honor

Last week’s suspension of a student by the Honor Court has again brought to light, in spite of recent developments
which serve to remove most of the controversy, certain weaknesses in Davidson's honor system — weaknesses which are mostly procedural,
but which are significant enough to warrant change for the purpose of strengthening Davidson’s honor system and her concept of
the Honor Court.

The point which is relevant is that, as a result of situations such as last week’s controversy, the Honor Court
easily acquires a “Gestapo” image in the eyes of many who may be convinced that a student who is tried
in secret and convicted on evidence which the Court refuses to disclose is often given a “raw deal.” While we
believe this not to be the case, nonetheless the secrecy that attends all actions of the Honor Court, combined with
the punishment which it must impose, serves to alienate students from an honor system of which they are a part
and with which they should identify themselves. This alienation from the honor system serves to weaken the system among those
who must be fully committed to it in order for the system to work.

In addition to the weakness of a lack of full student identification with their honor system is the disadvantage that
in the present system all that is known as certain among most students without illegal leaks from the Honor Court
members or witnesses, is the identity of the person suspended and the specific charge, facts which can never be hidden
whether officially announced or not. What is not certain are the actual circumstances of the violation and the grounds upon
which the conviction is made. A number of accounts circulate concerning the nature of the violation and evidence used to
convict the defendant. In some instances these accounts are slanted unfavorably toward the Honor Court since the defendant may give
his version of the conviction to outsiders, omitting or altering the facts which led to his conviction. The present practice
by the Honor Court of making available no information or extremely minimal information only serves to perpetuate the rumors.

Therefore, we would recommend that a record of any Honor Court trial in which a student is suspended from school
be formulated by the Court Recorder, relating all facts pertinent to the circumstances of the violation and all evidence upon
which the conviction was made. Since the Honor Court acts as an agent of the self-governing student body in imposing
the suspensions, then members of the student body could have access to the facts of the suspension and thus, if
they desire, learn why their agents acting for them have dismissed a student from the college. For the protection of
the defendant, such a record would be made available only upon a conviction leading to suspension from school and then
only after an individual’s means of appeal to higher college authorities have been exhausted. Only Davidson students would have a
right to see this record. Since a confession would remove the necessity for supporting evidence, there would be recorded for
a conviction in which a confession is made only the fact that a student has admitted to a violation of
the particular Student Body Regulation in question and has been suspended from school.

The purpose of the secrecy of Honor Court proceedings is to protect the defendant, but it can hardly be argued
that a student dismissed from school is protected significantly more if students know that he was dismissed for stealing —
leaving to their imaginations and rumors what he stole — than if they know he was dismissed for stealing an
umbrella or three dollars or fifty dollars. Publication of the evidence would not in all cases convince all students of
the validity of the Court’s decision, for some individuals would exploit the information gained by publication in trying to incriminate
the Court. Yet we feel that in most cases resulting in convictions the evidence is conclusive in itself. Also, the
fact that interested students would be able to draw their conclusions from the actual facts of the case rather than
from vague misinformation would more than compensate for those skeptics who would use the facts, as would be their privilege,
to disparage the Court’s decision.

Such changes as we have discussed would definitely serve to increase student identification with the honor system which they in
theory, operate and most importantly would alleviate to a great extent the unfortunate situations and resulting hostilities which arise from
misinformation often arising from the present procedure.

Room For Improvement

In changing two aspects of the rush system, the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, Clubs and Social Life made a wise
decision this week which should make the ordeal much more bearable for all involved. The fact that the committee followed
the recommendations of the Inter-fraternity Council to the letter is an indication of the respect the committee holds for that
body. Not only did the committee agree to pass the IFC’s requests for Sunday rush parties and Tuesday afternoon dorm
rush, but it also concurred with the IFC in its rejection of the Freshman Council’s request that bids be accepted
after rushees have returned from Christmas vacation.

With the IFC’s potential for initiating change it is regrettable they have not used their influence more constructively, especially during
this first year when there obviously remain a number of deficiencies in the system. Fraternity men who this year have
been asking for Sunday rush parties have been rebuffed by IFC members with the vapid explanation: “The faculty said last
spring rush parties would be on Saturday.” The council never actively investigated the possibility of having Sunday parties, despite a
host of cogent arguments in its favor and nothing against the possibility except that ‘the faculty said so.” It was
only after a student-initiated movement gained the support of a petition by the fraternity presidents for Sunday parties that the
IFC considered the possibility.

Nobody is seriously asserting that the IFC is “out to kill the fraternity system.” But the fact remains that the
council has been terribly lax in taking the initiative in original and constructive leadership for making the needed innovations in
the less-than-perfect, compromise system of rush.

Liberal Arts Tradition

Nearly overlooked by students in the interest over action taken last week by the Board of Trustees on amendments to
the drinking rule was the second and final approval by the Trustees to a new policy in regard to the
Christian faith of permanent faculty members. Last spring, when the first reading of the new policy was approved by the
board, the action was also overshadowed by another matter more directly related to the student body — the fraternity issue.
Thus, the long-standing and notorious faculty oath has been abolished in favor of what amounts to simply the satisfaction by
college officials of the Christian faith of the professors. The final approval of this measure follows numerous attempts to revise
the old vow, the most recent of which was last fall’s amendment which would have retained the provision for written
statements by prospective professors for tenure on the faculty.

The standards expected for professors desired at Davidson are still made clear by Trustees following their action last week. In
respect to professional pride and intellectual honesty, the Trustees have replaced the oath with the full confidence they must possess
in the officials of the college. As students we hope that such a concern for the future of Davidson might
be manifest even more emphatically by the board in the immediate years ahead.

Dear Editor:

In the lead editorial of last week's DAVIDSONIAN, the editor criticized the outburst of rash and giddy criticism of the
Honor Court which followed its latest trial. The editor was undoubtedly right in attributing the great amount of interest in
the case to three causes: the unusual nature of the case, the personality of the defendant, and the ways in
which the decision was announced. But this analysis of the situation fails to explain why all the comment was critical,
and avidly so. One of the primary reasons was the unavailability to the student body of the facts about the
case. Anyone feeling some doubt about the proceedings had no way to be reassured. Members of the court could not
help him because their hands were tied by the tradition of secrecy. The recording of the trial which was put
at the disposal of the defendant was largely inaudible. (Is it true that there is no other record of the
proceedings?) Rumors filled the place of the unavailable facts.

The editor wrote, “The decision in this case, as in every instance, solid testimony was heard, we feel sure.” He
was forced to add that last insecure qualification because there was no way for him to know if what he
felt was indeed true. Likewise for the opposition. We must all choose between being rumor-mongers or assuming the attitude of
the three dumb monkeys Hear No Evil, See No Evil, and Speak No Evil. I suggest that it does not
promote the attitude of inquiry which should accompany education or the cause of justice to preserve the secrecy of court
proceedings. Let the defendant have the right to make an accurate transcript of the trial public, if he judges that
this would not harm his case or his reputation. This would remove the protection our judges have against the consequences
of any mistake they might make because they are human and because they are amateurs. More importantly, this would enable
the honor system to be examined and criticized as it works, not in the abstract. Improvement would come more often
from the correction of actual errors than from abstract reflection upon the system.

I will briefly mention several other improvements which have been discussed during this recent rise in interest. The defendant’s advocate
should not be a member of the court (who is consequently deprived of his vote), but should be a permanent
attachment to the court, familiar with its operation. The same applies to those who collect evidence and argue for the
prosecution, for obvious reasons. A conviction resulting in suspension should require a unanimous decision, as in civil trials. Finally, it
would do much to improve our understanding of the court's operation if the pamphlet which it has prepared to elucidate
these matters were made available to students now.

Murray Smith
Davidson College
Graham

Dear Editor:

The Honor Court by a twisted act of justice has suddenly found itself the object of scrutiny that in this
case has so far produced more heat than light. No one but the court members possess enough objective factual data
to determine its conclusiveness; rumor is at best questionable.

Renews On Compulsory

Dear Editor:

SOCRATES: My good man, do you know why two years of ROTC are required at Davidson, and if so, will
you tell me the reason?

SERGEANT: Yes, of course, Socrates. We feel that the ROTC program has something to offer.

SOCRATES: Well, you would certainly admit that every course at Davidson has something to offer. Are you advocating, in the
light of this statement, that every course should be required for two years?

SERGEANT: Certainly not, Socrates, but the ROTC program has something special to offer: It is the only course in school
that teaches leadership.

SOCRATES: Do you mean that a student learns leadership by being commanded on the drill field by upperclassmen?

SERGEANT: Well, not exactly, Socrates. Before a student can become a leader, he must first learn to be a follower;
this is what the first two years of the course teaches.

SOCRATES: Therefore, if a student takes only two years of the course, he does...not learn leadership at all but rather
"followship," which most people know already; and, in this case, the student who takes only two years misses what the
course claims to offer.

SERGEANT: Yes, indeed, Socrates, it does seem so to me. I really don't see any reason for requiring the course.
Moreover, I am tired of dealing with these students who are not the least bit interested and add nothing to
the program. I think that the two-year requirement should be abolished.

Cecil W. Wooten, III
Montpellier, France

Woodworth

Dear Editor:

It was with a great deal of satisfaction and interest that I read your article of October 8 concerning Georges
Nzongola's initiative as publisher of the small but significant newspaper “La Voix des etudiants congolais.” Since then I have had
the opportunity to read the first edition, eleven pages of pertinent information, intelligent observation, and rational ideas, and were it
not for the fact that it is written entirely in French, I would recommend it to each and every one
of you.

The necessity of such a publication in the United States, as Georges so correctly stated, emanates from the very lack
of information and varied criticism concerning Africa available to Americans and to Africans who have the privilege of studying in
the United States but the misfortune of finding themselves in a situation quite often isolated from the major sources of
African news and opinion.

What sources are available to Davidson students who are interested in the vicious circles of African politics? What is to
be known about the ideas which

tionable. This presupposes an extraordinary amount of faith in the judgment of the individuals involved and raises questions about its
procedural techniques and its substantive purpose. With regard to the former, traditional Anglo-Saxon jurisprudence is apparently too liberal. Innocent until
proved guilty, “reasonable doubt,” and the unanimous verdict of a jury of one’s peers are inadequate. Also, there is presumably
a manual of formalized rules for the court, but who besides its members know its contents?

The college, too, must share responsibility. Who suggested the legally unacceptable lie detector test? From where and why was the
ad hoc “Judiciary Committee” brought into existence? The rationalization, of course, is the paramount importance of honesty. But what is
its utility? It is the essential ingredient of mutual trust in personal relationships and of predictable behavior in those with
a reputation for honesty—a stable and reliable element in an otherwise often chaotic world.

To justify the capriciousness of the Honor Court's latest action, honesty must assume a transcendent value in and of itself,
an ultimate principle that must determine in a comprehensive sense the actions of those living under its authority. Casuistry will
not be employed to argue the premises of ultimate principles. Is not to plead the case for the holiness of
only one idea tantamount to an admission of its hollowness? In other words, when our values become anchored to a
presumed universal fixity, do we not become blind to the relativity of our own presumption? The objection to determination is
that it is often short-sighted; the disciplinary facilities at an

Assault ROTC move

Africans to action when the works of such men as Leopold Senghor, Sekou Toure, and Kwame Nkrumah are often unavailable
to general student use? A whole new realm of African poetry and prose, both in English and in French, left
usually untouched in studies of Modern Literature, is a witness to the intellectual movement of a continent recently hurtled into
a new era of shaky independence in which strong feelings of nationalism struggle unremittingly against a version of unity.

To understand why this struggle exists and to understand what it means to the future not only of Africa, but
for the entire world, a knowledge of African people as a people, of their history, their religions, their philosophies and
their aspirations as revealed in their new-born literature, cannot be left inaccessible and even unpromoted to young Americans.

Africa is unwilling to let go of her newly achieved position in world affairs and she won’t let go to
fall back into the black pit from whence she has just arisen. She knows that she has a role and
she is willing to play this role in spite of the many trumps against her. Africa is on the move.
How are its actions being revealed to the students of Davidson College—in the ignorance typical of the past or with
the comprehension necessary for the present?

Douglas C. Woodworth
Paris, France

undergraduate college require utmost circumspection, but myopia and circumspection are antithetical terms. Finally, our pride in the image of honesty
that we project becomes involved, and the cruel mockery of the liberal arts and its concern for individual academic development
which the college and Honor Court have co-operated to produce becomes intelligible.

Stephen A. Graham
Davidson College

Powell

Dear Editor:

Fraternity men at Davidson College should realize that it is time for sweeping social changes if anything like the fraternity
system is to continue here. These freshmen have been around long enough to get their feet on the ground and
to become members of the college community without being in fraternities. They have had more fun and class spirit (and
parties) than any freshman class I have seen without being in fraternities. In short, they have adjusted, have been accepted,
and are socially enjoying their stay at Davidson College, all without being in fraternities.

The more freshmen I talk to the more I am convinced that they (along with many independents and disenchanted fraternity
men) are totally annoyed with the artificiality of rush regulations and are not impressed with the pseudo-aristocracy of Greek letter
fraternities at Davidson.

Certainly with the rise of the Social Council it is no longer socially necessary to be in a fraternity. But
several fraternities here will be in dire financial straits if they don't get plenty of pledges this year. Therefore, fraternities,
justify yourselves! Justify yourselves or die a natural death. Justify to these freshmen why they should have to take a
beating, wash upper-classmen’s cars, crowd into small rooms and smoke cigars and eat raw eggs until they throw up, waste
hours on senseless tasks, and suffer all kinds of indignities to prove they're good enough to

CLOSE - By TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Associate Editor

be accepted by the group. Justify to these freshmen why they should send off thousands of dollars to national organizations
from which they gain nothing other than the prestige (?) of being a certified Kappa Kappa or whatever. And, above
all, justify to these freshmen why they should participate in the moral injustice of the black ball system. Tell them
why it is necessary that they be picked over like so many oranges and have their mouths checked to see
if their teeth are alright and then to be passed on or rejected on the basis of the size of
their Adams’ apples by the whim of one individual out of fifty. Tell them that it is really right for
the college to plan on and to support (financially as well as morally) and to brag on (in all the
college literature) our fraternities as the college system in spite of the fact that fraternities are not open to all
students that come to Davidson College. Explain to these freshmen that injustice is justice, that black is white. Or! Or
face up to the fact of the injustice and inefficiency of our present system. Face up to the fact that
it is not necessary to have a black ball system to have fun, brotherhood, and social eating clubs in college.
Face up to the facts that the freshmen realize this and that you need them more than they need you.
And then forsake national charters and drop the ball or at least modify it. Then together all Davidson students can
build a new social system based on campus-wide brotherhood. Such a system (at least as a positive alternative to the
fraternity system) is already being started. There is a drive already under way (under the leadership of Joe Obenshain, Jesse
Sims, and others) to build a non-exclusive seating club on campus. All freshmen, in fact, all students are invited to
take part. Meanwhile in the interest of all that is right and in your own best interests I ask, advise,
dare all freshmen to boycott the blackball until some changes are made.

Rob N. Powell
Davidson College

LINES COMPOSED ON A BAD DAY

“I am going out of my mind,” you think. “If I get one more stock scream.” “What were the French
girls like?” they ask. You tell them. “Oh, come now, what were they REALLY like?” they ask. “You hate DeGaulle
too, don’t you?” they ask, expecting a cut-and-dried “yes.” You can’t conscientiously give it. “I am so glad you didn’t
bring a French wife back with you. Our Southern girls really have it over them, don’t they?” You search diplomatically
for a way to say no. “Didn’t you just love Europe? Why I saw it in three weeks last summer.
Visited ten countries. Oh, it’s so quaint.” No answer seems appropriate for that statement.

LINES COMPOSED ON A WORSE DAY

What pettiness, what smallness among people seems to be magnified in this little world called Davidson. Do your fellow students
REALLY care what happens to you? In our little world, those who trespass, those who try the Sacred Rules must
leave, and are soon forgotten. Those who tow the mark, those who conform, are rewarded by being called Good Guys.
One day someone who is different, stimulating, vibrant comes along . . . a potential friend. But he is not
LIKE you, and you lose... you lose enrichment, you lose a chance for

What is responsible for this attitude? When are people going to wake up and realize that their educational experience is
sorely incomplete without dialogue, without contact with varied opinions, views?

LINES COMPOSED ON THE WORST OF ALL DAYS

I had three reviews today. Shall I crawl back to the dorm; crawl up the road; or just lie here?
I can still hear the immortal words of the “Students” Dean, “But, Mr. X, if you keep up with your
work every day, you need have no fear when three reviews come along.”

TYING KNOTS IN THE END OF THE TALE; OR, LITTLE-KNOWN NEWS OF INTEREST

SAIGON — About 25,000 Viet Cong have been killed so far this year, some 8,000 more than last year’s total.

LONDON — Christine Keeler, 23, and James Levermore, 24, were married Friday. Mrs. Levermore was an aide to former Tory
War Minister John Profumo.

REIDSVILLE, N. C. — Local wets approved ABC stores by 28 votes Saturday. The drys are asking a recount.
