FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

By STANLEY KERR

Davidson Junior Abroad

“Culture shock” is a term used to describe what happens when fresh New World naivete washes ashore — ripe Old
World sophistication. It lasts until diarrhea and disillusionment set in, usually within the first week, but is never completely eradicated.
In a state of culture shock, boatloads of young Candide wander glassy-eyed through the jumbled alleys, sidewalk cafes, cathedrals, dirt,
beggars, and whores of Europe, convinced they have found Life.

City disillusionment brings a closer, but not complete, grasp of reality and announces a new direction. The inevitable search out
and meet the people, and to chase after the adventures for which he has come.

New Club Speeds Franco-American Contacts

By TOM CRAIG

A club, through which Americans might meet French students interested in America, has been organized in Montpellier this fall. The
Davidson group of 12 students forms the American nucleus of the club, and students in American civilization and literature classes
at the University provide the French nucleus. One evening in December, in response to a general invitation to all students
interested in forming the club, some 15 Americans and 85 French gathered in a room where chairs were set up
and refreshments prepared for only 30. This strong interest is being sustained as the club adopts a regular meeting schedule
and format.

In providing a medium for the exchange of views between the two nationalities, the club's success is due to the
fact that the officers plan to have reciprocal programs, i.e., a good balance between programs essentially about America and those
essentially about France. The help of the American Consulate at Marseille and the United States Information Service in Paris has
been requested for books and films and guest lecturers on American topics.

The Club had its first regular meeting on a rainy evening in January, and still had an attendance of 40.
The program was first the “Tirer les Rois,” a French custom celebrated at the time of Epiphany, Jan. 6. Large
circular cakes are baked with a favor inside each one. Each cake is cut, and the person drawing the slice
of cake containing the favor, be he a boy, is crowned king, and be she a girl, queen. The king
then has the right to choose and crown a queen, and likewise the queen may choose a king. Along with
the cakes, we drank “Muscat,” a sweet, clear wine, a low grade of champagne, and a product of this area
of France. The “American” part of the program was a potpourri of Henry Miller, Playboy, and picturesque tales from last
summer's travelers.

A TASTE OF HONEY

These long-awaited experiences may be intellectual, aesthetic, mystical, or sensual, but they all revolve around the idea that something wonderful
is going to happen if the adventurer can just get in on it. Thus he may tramp through a modest
number of cathedrals and museums only to be surrounded by a cackling, clucking herd of tourists. He may frequent intellectual,
arty cafes like the Deux Magots, expecting to see Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir trysting in some corner. Instead, he
is more likely to see homosexuals trysting in the corner, and thus wants to be ignored.

Religious sites especially breed cynicism. The strained emotionalism of the poor, the blatant commercialism of the postcard salesman, and the
eternal disputes among the religious sects themselves over where Jesus really slept, all disillusion the pilgrim.

If Candide ventures behind the Iron Curtain, he will probably find the people a little poorer, the conditions a little
stranger, but the folks appallingly concerned with the same things as those in Sioux City: making a buck.

IN THE END

In the end, like the Conquistadors egged on by the native reports that El Dorado lies just over the horizon,
the traveler marches continually on his quest from one city to another, spending much of his time simply foraging for
food and shelter. He may feel frustrated, cheated, or, having decided to tend his gardens, he may even want to
go back to Sioux City, where the plumbing really works. However, if he is lucky, he may discover that the
experiences for which he searches do not arrive by the search, that the spontaneous and the unforeseen are necessary elements.
Perhaps it may be a moment in Chambord when the crowds are obliterated and the 17th century surges back, or
an island in Greece which has no historical significance but which is beautiful in its own right. Or, a new
acquaintance may be made on the basis of a common train compartment or a common park bench. Hopefully, Candide becomes
a trifle more stoical, accepting with joy what comes his way and not regretting the infinity of possibilities which are
never realized. In the words of one remarkable voyager, Arthur Rimbaud:

Je ne parlerai pas, je ne penserai rien: Mais l’amour infini me montera dans l’âme, Et loin, bien loin, comme
un bohémien, Par la Nature, heureux — comme avec une femme.

International Living Programs Offered

Mrs. Lars Tentauve Carlson, the International field representative for Experiment in International Living, will meet with interested faculty and students
in the private dining room of the Student Union Monday from 2 to 4 p.m. Mrs. Carlson will discuss international
work, travel, and study opportunities with the Experiment.

A typical Experiment program comprises a one-month family living experience followed by a second month of traveling with nine other
Americans and an equal number of native counterparts. Leadership opportunities with the Experiment are available to faculty members or graduate
students who may be interested. The application deadline for those seeking participation in the Experiment is March 10.

Life in the United States is new for the French, as are such things as football scholarships and fraternities. I
feel that the meeting may be judged a success due to the fact that forty people ate ten cakes and
drank 15 bottles of Muscat during the evening. We hope to have a Hollywood film at the next meeting.

FRANCO-AMERICAN CLUB

Tom Craig, the American president, conducts some business.To Old World of European Oasis
BY HARRY CARR
Davidsonian Staff Writer

In the Davidson Junior Year Abroad plan, a student must give evidence of his seriousness as a student and must
possess a mature and objective viewpoint, reports French professor Dr. Joe O. Embry, chairman of Davidson’s foreign study program. Basic
requirements include at least a “B” (2.0) average through the second-year level in the language of the country in which
a student would like to study and an overall average of at least 1.75. Embry explains that in addition to
these basic requirements, each student must submit a written recommendation from a faculty member to verify that he is sufficiently
motivated to study independently.

Embry also notes that the Davidson plan is rather unusual among foreign study programs, since the American student leads virtually
the same life as that of a native European student. The Davidson students live among people of the country, either
in dormitories or in private homes, and thus would need at least a basic working knowledge of the language of
the country. Davidson students also attend the regularly scheduled classes at the university and often do independent travel on their
own.

The accompanying Davidson professor has frequent meetings with the students and conducts a seminar course in the literature of the
country that makes up for the lack of personal contact among students and professors in foreign universities. The particular seminar
course conducted by the Davidson professor is the only one especially planned for the Davidson group. All the other courses
that a student takes are chosen by the student himself, in consultation with his faculty advisor and the Davidson professor
accompanying the group.

Embry indicated that the Junior Year Abroad is more than an academic experience—the total experience is intended to be one
of life-long reward both to the individual student and to Davidson College.

OVER THREE CONTINENTS
Davidsonians Travel Widely

By JOHN WEBB
Davidson Junior Abroad

Davidson students have discovered that traveling has been one of the most rewarding and valuable experiences of the Junior Year
Abroad. Davidson students have carried goodwill and Southern gentility over three continents: Europe, Asia, and Africa, and utilized almost every
means of transportation.

During each trip the students economize as best they can, always with the hopeful thought that if they save a
little on this trip, then they can take another. The year didn’t begin in September for all the students. Stanley
Kerr passed the summer in Paris, Pete Bondanella in Madrid, Wayne Mixon in Stratford-on-Avon. During the school break in October,
Ray Fisher and Jim Starret went to Spain, Gibraltar, crossed over into Morocco, back to Portugal and Spain; Woodworth and
Cleveland relaxed at a ski-camp in northern Italy, eagerly anticipating “apres-ski.”

This break also saw Mike Frye to London and the countryside nearby; Doug Woodworth toured the Loire Valley, region of
famous French chateaus; Eddie Rivers went to Paris; John Ouzts to West Germany; Woody Cleveland visited the French Riviera, Geneva,
and Andorra.

Frye in London

Ray Fisher and Jim Starret visited Florence, Rome, and Naples, journeyed on to Athens, and then back up through Yugoslavia
to Venice; John Webb visited Paris and West Germany. Kerr, Bondanella, and Mixon made it to Warsaw, via Berlin; Kerr
and Bondanella continued to Moscow to examine the life of Khrushchev, while Mixon visited Danzig, Cracow, and Zakopane in Poland,
then returned via all the countries of East Europe Bloc. The sharing of traveling experiences upon return to Montpellier was
enriching for everyone; shortly after returning, plans and ideas for Christmas trips were already being discussed.

The winter winds came and a semi-migration to warmer climates followed: Jim Starret and Tom Craig went to Florence and
Rome, on to Izmir, Turkey, returning via Athens, and passing through Yugoslavia; Eddie Rivers and John Ouzts went to Alexandria,
moved on to Cairo, then to Jordan visiting Amman, Jerusalem, and Bethlehem, over “no man’s land” into Israel, and on
to Greece visiting Athens and Delphi; Mike Frye and Ray Fisher visited Florence, Rome, and Naples, journeyed on to Athens,
and then back up through Yugoslavia to Venice; John Webb visited Paris and West Germany.

See Europe Cheaply!

What you spend on travel seems to be worth more than the price itself, and there are many ways to
economize. Public transportation is generally cheaper than in the United States. Trains in France are quite high, but in other
countries, they are very economical. From Warsaw back to Montpellier through all the Bloc Countries is less than $69. Boats
on the Mediterranean are also inexpensive. Athens to Marseilles is only $46. Inside the large cities, one finds the public
buses, trams, and subways are cheap and efficient.

The comparatively high resale value of the used European car, as a factor in cutting travel expenses, has been influential
in providing some students with convenient and pleasant methods of “seeing-it-yourself.” However, for the budget-conscious students, those without capital, there
remains the proverbial “hitch-hiking”: it still remains the cheapest and most educational means of travel, and possibly the most interesting.
The main objection to catching a ride is that it is time-consuming; the question is respectability though, for even girls
hitch-hike in Europe.

Do It Yourself

Guides to travel cheaply are a great help to a green student tourist. But after experience, most students agree that
the best deals financially come through things you will find yourself—usually just when you need it! Students receive reduced rates
at hotels and restaurants, with many inexpensive facilities designed just for the student. Frequently student groups are organized for excursions
to different cities, nearby regions, and ski-camps. Ten days of skiing, room and board, transportation, and equipment, all for less
than $100!

Spending wisely requires planning, good information, and self-control. If you are a student and exercise self-discipline, you don’t have to
wait until you are old and rich to enjoy Europe.
