NOMINEES PICKED FOR PUBLICATIONS (See Page Four) VOL. LIV. Ch DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1965 ~ ye Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body MOUNTAINEER COUP VICTIMIZES ‘CATS (See Page Five) NUMBER NINETEEN Fraternity Committee Makes Two Preliminary Proposals The Fraternity Evaluation Committee presented two proposals in its official “Preliminary Report” which Chairman Will Jackson presented at the Student Council meeting Monday night. The report made the following recommendations: “(1) that a campus-wide social committee be set up to plan and carry out all major social functions for the entire student body, and (2) that a fixed social fee be charged to all students, and that the funds from this fee be allocated to the campus-wide social committee and the College Union for the financing of social activities and entertainment. “Such an arrangement would provide better campus social functions for all students of the College... Increased funds would be available for social activities, and an expanded program... would be possible. This change also serves to lessen the dichotomy which has existed on campus between the advantages for the fraternity man and those for the Independent.” Although Jackson emphasized that these were “two concrete proposals,” he went on to say that any recommendations were, as such, tentative. Once passed through the Student Council, any proposals would then be referred to the IFC, faculty, or administration. “For example, the adoption of a fixed social fee would have to be approved by the Board of Trustees,” Jackson said. In a DAVIDSONIAN article last week Jackson said that he did not expect the report to contain any recommendations. When questioned as to why the report did include two definite proposals, he explained, “The committee worked much faster than I had expected. It agreed on these recommendations and wanted to include them in its report.” Jackson added, “There probably will not be a general Student Body election on these or future proposals.” Unable to set a certain date for the committee's final decision, he would only say, “I hope that we may be finished in two or three weeks.” Working toward a deadline, the committee tried through this interim report to answer briefly the basic question, “Are the fraternities serving the needs of Davidson College and its students, and are there specific steps that might be taken to better serve these needs?” The 12-man evaluation team has studied questionnaires polling “the opinions of Davidson student leaders of the past ten years, as well as representative Independents of the same period.” Also the committee examined written statements from students and faculty, with special emphasis on the opinions of the faculty. Professors May Make Proposals By April 6 Davidson's faculty will immediately begin study of the fraternity question when the Fraternity Evaluation Committee issues its tensely awaited report later this month. Directed by a motion which received unanimous approval at the monthly faculty meeting Tuesday, the faculty’s Committee on Fraternities, Social Life, and Clubs will study the report of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee and “will make recommendations at the next meeting of the Faculty on specific proposals in the report that are subject to Faculty action.” In effect, the motion, which was passed without discussion, means that the faculty will have specific recommendations before the first draft of the report is completed. Davidson Self-Study Sets March 15 Report By DAN BOONE Davidson Staff Writer Tentative deadline for the first draft reports from the various committees involved in the Davidson Self-Study has been set for March 15. The completion of the committee reports will enable the college to enter the final stages of the extensive self-evaluation being conducted by faculty and administration personnel under the direction of Dr. C. J. Pletenik. Davidson's first such self-study is being undertaken as part of the required duties as a member of the Southern Association of Colleges and Universities. Technically, the purpose of the study is to determine whether Davidson College can retain its accreditation, but as President Grier Martin, at the initiation of the evaluation in 1963, stated, “We may as well put a real effort into it and seek to improve Davidson with specific proposals.” With this directive in mind, a study within the college has been conducted to evaluate and improve various aspects of the institution.Each department was begun with a 10-year projected outlook in mind, which included courses now offered. When it convenes again on April 6, the faculty vow, another of the big issues on campus, was only briefly touched upon at the meeting with the announcement by President D. Grier Martin that the Education Committee of the Trustees will meet Tuesday, March 9.

NEW VOW
This committee, which is working closely with Martin, is in the process of drawing up a substitute that would be satisfactory to both the trustees and the faculty. Two previous vows adopted by the trustees have drawn considerable opposition from various faculty members. President Martin described the hour-long faculty meeting as “mostly routine,” with various reports and announcements made. Dr. Adinarayan, Davidson's visiting professor of psychology from India, and Davidson's new football coaches Ken Blair and Dick Tomey were formally introduced to the faculty and officially welcomed to Davidson by the president.

The committees of Davidson's self-study program have changes contemplated, areas of weakness, and personnel changes. After these preliminary departmental studies were concluded, the faculty was divided into eight topical committees: Organization and Administration, Educational Program, Financial Resources, Faculty, Library, Student Personnel, Physical Plant, and Research. At the present time, the Steering Committee, headed by Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston, is in the process of going over these first reports with each committee and offering recommendations toward finishing the final drafts. The individual committee results are expected to be concluded by the end of the semester, after which the Steering Committee will review, consolidate, and integrate them into a final unified presentation to be printed over the summer. A visiting committee of five to seven members of the Southern Association is scheduled to inspect the campus for several days this November, analyze the self-study, and offer suggestions and criticisms concerning it.

The self-study is expected to be of permanent value in helping to make Davidson a “better” college. In preparing the reports, the faculty and administration have worked long and hard, often as much as three hours a week throughout the two years. For instance, the Educational Program Committee has conferred with visiting authorities in different fields, evaluated Davidson's program, and compared their findings with similar self-studies of such schools as Amherst, Williams, Reed, and Carleton. Of special interest to students is the Student Affairs Committee, which has been investigating such diverse aspects of student life as fraternities, dormitory life, social life, athletics, academics, and cultural activities. Pietenpol stated that, as a result of the study, many changes of both short and long-range significance will be made. He especially cited alterations in course offerings and, perhaps, minor changes in requirements for graduation.

The loss of Doris Davis, who was killed Sunday evening, was mentioned by Martin. He commented that she had “worked in the Union for Slater Food Service for eight years, and will be missed by the entire college community.”

A brief and informal report on his recent European tour was given to the faculty by Martin. In his remarks, he expressed his enthusiasm for the two Davidson Abroad programs which he visited in France and Germany. He commented that the vast majority of the boys in both groups seemed to be getting quite a lot out of the experience and that the benefits of such a program are not limited to a purely academic realm. Martin found that most of the boys here were quite enthusiastic about their programs.

(Continued on Page 6)

Fraternity Group Sports Vacancy
The only vacancy on the faculty committee charged with studying the report of the Student Council Fraternity Evaluation Committee will be filled within the next week, President D. Grier Martin reported today. The temporary vacancy on the faculty’s Committee on Fraternities, Clubs, and Social Life was created by Dr. W. G. Workman's semester-long leave of absence. Dr. Workman is not only a member but also chair of the committee. Filling the chair during the psychology professor's absence will be Dr. W. G. McGavock, who has just been appointed to the position by President Martin. In addition to Chairman McGavock, members of the committee are Professors Thomas F. Clark, Chalmers Davidson, Bruce Jackson, and Sam Maloney; College Union Director C. Shaw Smith; and Chaplain Will Terry. Also sitting on the committee but in non-voting positions are Richard C. Burts and Robert G. Jones, dean and assistant dean of students respectively.

Special emphasis on personal interviews with people connected to the fraternity problem. Upon completion of its work, the committee will issue “further applicable recommendations.”

By AL CARSON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The IFC tomorrow night will present Beyond the Fringe, a theatrical production which President Rick von Unwerth has predicted will be “the most outstanding attraction of the IFC social year.” The play will be the IFC's feature for the Spring Concert Function, with students repairing to individual fraternity after-parties to pace the mid-March respite from school work. Beyond the Fringe was written four years ago by a small collection of Englishmen who, neither playwrights nor actors, were recently graduated students from Oxford and Cambridge. After running in London for two years, the production moved to the United States, was staffed with American actors, and received excellent reviews during its two-year tenure in New York and various other American cities. The play is a study in satire of English conventions, personages, and institutions. Production is cast around a framework of 23 short scenes, each on a different topical subject. The actors demonstrate their dexterity on a set composed of columns, arches, and platforms, making possible rapid transition from scene to scene with little set changing.

Von Unwerth mulled, “I have been extremely disappointed in student reaction to Beyond the Fringe. It’s curious and unfortunate that a departure, a truly worthwhile departure, from the norm should receive student criticism. Beyond the Fringe will undoubtedly appeal to the unusual Davidson sense of humor. It's strongly satiric, entertaining, and on occasion, off-color. I'm simply afraid that some people will miss it because of a basic environmental prejudice against the theatre.”

As usual, each Davidson fraternity will enjoy parties following the IFC functions. A rundown of fraternities and combos includes: ATO—Continentals; Beta—Jivers; KA—Fabulous Five, Fabulous Mames; Kappa Sigma—Dynamics; Phi Gams—Dale and the Del Harts; Pikas—The Divots; Pi Kapps—Fabulous Five; SAE—Fabulous Five, Jivers; Sigma Chi—Nomads; Sigma Nu—El Roccos.

SCHOLASTIC AVERAGES FALL SEMESTER, 1964-65
Fraternity Overall Avg. Pledges Avg. (Pos.) 1963-64 Avg. (Pos.)
Sigma Nu 1.85 1.69 (2) 1.64 (10)
Sigma Chi 1.83 1.67 (3) 1.76 (3)
Pi Kappa Alpha 1.78 1.48 (8) 1.75 (4)
Alpha Tau Omega 1.77 1.58 (6) 1.81 (1)
Sigma Phi Epsilon 1.75 1.65 (4) 1.72 (5)
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 1.71 1.44 (9) 1.71 (6)
Kappa Alpha 1.70 1.83 (1) 1.61 (11)
Kappa Sigma 1.67 1.03 (12) 1.64 (9)
Pi Kappa Phi 1.65 1.52 (7) 1.57 (12)
Beta Theta Pi 1.637 1.64 (5) 1.79 (2)
Phi Delta Theta 1.635 1.35 (10) 1.68 (7)
Phi Gamma Delta 1.58 1.35 (11) 1.65 (8)
TOTAL AVG. 1.71 1.53 1.695
Lingle Manor 1.52
Independents 1.66
Freshmen Ind. 1.69
ALL-MEN’S AVERAGE 1.70 (1963-64 Avg.) 1.698
Freshman Class 1.58 1.54 (1963-64 Avg.)
Sophomore Class 1.64 1.72
Junior Class 1.75 1.67
Senior Class 1.84 1.87

Faculty Plans To Study Report On Fraternities
BROADWAY REVUE
“The most outstanding attraction of the IFC social year”
SPONSORED BY IFC
‘Beyond The Fringe’ Set For Tomorrow