COLLEGE ANNOUNCES INCREASE IN FEES (See Page Four)

VOL. LIV.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Students Will Hold Vote On Drinking Proposal

President Answers: Fraternities, Drinking

By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

President D. G. Martin discussed the ins and outs of the recent action of the Board of Trustees — as well as fielding a variety of student gripes — Wednesday at Open End. A moderate gathering of about thirty-five students and professors heard Martin discuss everything from fraternities (surprise!) to New York alumni.

(Staff Photo by Johnson)

CORNWELL INSPIRES CAMPUS NONENTITIES
“A Nobody Is A Real Achievement”
Who’s Nothing Salutes Noted Underachievers

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The air was full of expectancy. Bedecking the podium was an emblem equal to the solemnity of the occasion. The annual tapping for one of Davidson’s more prestigious honoraries, which claims several fraternity presidents, an editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, and a grade-point average above that of the all men’s, was about to commence. After the members had silently, and with great dignity, filed onto the stage, presiding member Jim Fuller rapped the podium with his gavel, made from a beer can, and the ceremony of the local chapter of Who's Nothing began.

Dibble introduced the keynote speaker, Charlie Cornwell, by presenting his accomplishments in life, such as editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks, and his current position as a member of the Davidson English Department. “You see,” said Dibble, “we could not have made a more excellent choice, for what’s more worthless than an editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks or a member of the Davidson English Department.”

Cornwell responded to the occasion by talking for a few minutes about absolutely nothing. “Davidson should be honored,” he quipped, “to have the only student body in the United States in the past ten years to demonstrate for the status quo.” Cornwell ended by stating that “being a nobody at Davidson is a real achievement.” No one, he said, can be a nobody and succeed at anything. “Today’s nobody is tomorrow's ‘if.’”

Then began the tapping ceremony, as each member ranged through the audience to find the honored ones. SAE George Brewer was caught completely unaware by roomie Tony McNay, and went forward to receive his key. The others soon followed: Alex Bernhardt, Fred Hetzel, Rat Curry, and Phil Hightower of the Kappa Sigs; Bill Schutt, Bill Wood, Tom Cobb, and Jim Wallace of the Betas; Jim Overton of the Pikas; Warren Reid, an ATO; Tommy Hunter from the KA’s; Vance Taylor of the Phi Delts; Independent Chum Roberts; the Phi Gams’ Joe Clyde Gamble; Bill Daisy of the Pi Kapps; Bob Strayser from the SPE's; Alex Wyatt, and Charlie Goodykoontz, the second sophomore to be tapped in five years, from the SAE's.

He began with a very brief opening statement about the trustees’ position on fraternities. According to Martin, “They gave more serious thought to this matter than anything they've considered for some time.” “It is our intention,” he continued, “to carry out the provisions which they have indicated — including the construction of houses if there is sufficient indication that they would be desired and used.” He also mentioned that a student group had approached the administration requesting the construction of such houses and that studies as to cost and location are underway.

The first topic was that of the trustees and their view of fraternities. Martin assured his inquisitors that that venerable body had given careful consideration to the question and that their decision was no hasty one. Asked about plans for the future he said, “They were not thinking in those terms at all. If this proposal were to fail I don’t know what they might do.” He admitted, “You're taking your life in your hands when you try to predict what trustees will do.”

On the subject of the faculty oath Martin had a sharp exchange with one student who felt that the change advocated by the trustees had accomplished little. Martin firmly insisted that “the crucial point has not been whether to have Christians on the faculty” but how to determine whether they are Christians. “We make no excuse for requiring anyone who is a teacher here to be a Christian.”

CHANGES POSSIBLE
Council Discusses Cars

By FRANK FLEMING
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Student Council discussed at its Monday meeting the possibility of assuming the entire control and operation of the Traffic Committee for next year. David Powell, the retiring committee representative from the Council, reported the results of his meeting with Dean of Students Richard C. Burts and Asst. Dean of Students Robert G. Jones. The purpose of the report and ensuing discussion was to provide an indication of council opinion.

RESPONSIBILITY

Although many of the things discussed were tentative, Powell did point out, “The Faculty Traffic Committee seems to favor more Student Council responsibility in the area of traffic control.” The most obvious advantage of council control would be a monetary one. For example, the income this year from the sale of parking stickers and payment of traffic tickets was approximately $700. Since the council would apparently receive all traffic revenues, the question arose as to whether or not the present $1,000 council allowance would be reduced. That is, would the council have both its allowance (possibly more than $1,000 next year) and the traffic income? Since no one knew the answer to this question, the matter was referred to Powell who will meet with Burts and Jones.

NEW POLICIES

Powell explained that since incoming freshmen will be allowed to keep automobiles on campus next semester, several new policies will be instituted. The tentative plan will limit freshmen parking to the areas behind Johnston Gymnasium and across the street from the Fine Arts Quadrangle. Different colored parking stickers will be issued to freshmen. According to Powell, Jones has designed a “pretty new style” for the ‘65-'66 stickers, with Davidson spelled out in big letters. Such a device will thus serve to publicize the college.

REGULAR BUSINESS

The regular business then began with the election of Irving Welling as treasurer for the newly-organized Social Council. Following his nomination by Randy McKnight, he was accepted by acclamation. Welling currently serves as treasurer of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and as business manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Fred Sackett brought up the problem of whether or not incoming freshmen would eat at the College Union all year. If so, then the fraternities would still have some problem of finances. He then explained a possible system of “farming out” first semester freshmen to the fraternities. By allotting six or eight “new boarders,” the fraternities would be able to maintain their financial stability.

OPINION VARIES
Faculty Views Change In Oath

Faculty and administration members were generally pleased with the action taken by the trustees toward abolishing the faculty oath and replacing it with the requirement that prospective permanent faculty members satisfy the administration and trustees. At their meeting last Friday the trustees proposed that the administration certify to the Trustees Education Committee that each person recommended for tenure: (1) Be committed to the Christian faith and be a member of a Christian church and, (2) Comprehend the Statement of Purpose of Davidson College and intend to promote this purpose.

REPLACEMENT

This statement replaced the proposal which was passed last October and needs only a second reading for final approval. Under the old proposal all prospective faculty members would have had to affirm in writing a series of five statements.Questions dealing with their belief in the teachings of evangelical Christianity. Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the faculty, stated that either he or President D. Grier Martin would certify a professor to the trustees. When asked how he would go about certifying an individual, he replied, “I would certainly talk to him, but I have no detailed procedure. This statement gives me a certain flexibility.” Personally in favor of the new proposal, Johnston stated, “We and the trustees want the same kind of faculty. Before this, we went about getting it in different ways, they with formal vows, we with private conversations. This is an agreement in goals and not in method. Just as the administration determines the academic qualifications of an individual, we shall now certify his Christian commitment."

GRATITUDE
Johnston was emphatic on one point: that of expressing the gratitude of the administration and faculty “for the statesmanlike attempt on the part of the trustees to see our point of view. They have leaned over backwards to do something they really didn't want to do as individuals. But they wanted to serve the best interests of the college."

Associate Professor of Economics E. F. Patterson, who was “unalterably opposed" to the October proposal, hailed the new action as “an excellent step in the right direction toward removing all religious restrictions” on the hiring of faculty members. In regard to the general effect of the decision, Patterson said, “This will improve the image of Davidson in the eyes of professional teachers, the academic profession in general, and better-thinking elements in the public.”

IN BETWEEN
Citing the Danforth study, which considered 817 church-related educational institutions in the country, Dr. D. D. Rhodes added, “Many Christian colleges lose strength and identity by too much secularization. Of course, some are too fundamentalistic. The answer is in between. This is where Davidson wants to stand.” G. L. Abernethy, philosophy professor, was “very happy” with the “intelligent action.” He stated that he had been opposed to the vow for a number of years, “though I took it some 17 years ago.”

The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1965

A. D. G. MARTIN
The movement to strike the drinking rule from the student body regulations was also taken up. Martin would not definitely predict the faculty reaction, but he did indicate that he was against a radical change and that if the faculty regulation were not changed it would be enforced. He added that the rule allowing liquor in car trunks was passed “not more than four or five months ago with the definite understanding that this would enable the Student Council and Honor Court to enforce the remaining rule."

Twelve fraternities could lighten their financial strain. Such a system would also serve to unify the entire student body and to make the incoming students feel more “at home.” Discussion ended without any action being taken. Chuck Matthews, Ben Cannon, and Bob Bryant were the only absentees.

Burts, dean of students, churches) over a year. proposal after the meeting for Body Regulations.

Faculty Broadens Vespers Attendance
The faculty ruled yesterday that, beginning next year, students of the Roman Catholic and Jewish faiths may substitute worship at specified cathedrals and synagogues for Sunday vespers attendance. It also directed the Committee on Fraternities and Social Life to implement the decision on fraternities reached here by the Trustees last week. Selection of a place of worship outside Davidson will be left to the individual Roman Catholic or Jewish student. “We think each student should pick what would be a ‘home church’,” said Richard C. Once that choice has been made, the student may substitute worship there for Sunday evening worship at the college vespers service. But these two places will be the only places where attendance will satisfy the vespers requirement for the students affected (aside from attendance at any of the Davidson churches). Attending morning services at churches of their choice in Davidson has been an alternative to vespers attendance open to all Protestant students for over a year. This ruling left out a minority comprised of Roman Catholics and Jews, occasioning this week’s decision. Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston said that the faculty plans to keep in mind other general changes, but expects none at present. The Committee on Fraternities and Social Life, directed by the faculty to work out the details by which the faculty can conform to the recommendations of the Trustees, is expected to produce no novel proposal. “My supposition is that it will be pretty much what the McGavock Report proposed,” said Johnston after the meeting. The faculty did not deal with the possible establishment of an eating club, which has been a major facet of most recommendations regarding the future of social life at Davidson. This measure was delegated by the Trustees to the administration for further study, and faculty action on it was not called for. Also during its meeting, the faculty received a Curriculum Committee report recommending that a new course in German civilization be added to next year’s German department course offerings. It also approved a rewording of the language requirement that retained the requirement’s content but eliminated its ambiguity. No mention was made during the meeting of next Thursday’s student referendum regarding the removal of the drinking clause from the Student Body Regulations.

GRIDDERS SCHEDULE INTERSQUAD SCRIMMAGE (See Page Three)

NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

Amendment Strikes At Restrictions
Arnie Goodstein presented to the Student Council Monday his petition signed by about 300 students calling for an amendment abolishing the drinking clause in the student body constitution. David Powell’s motion to endorse the petition was tabled until the next meeting. According to Article IX of the constitution, a proposed amendment must be voted on by the students within ten days after its presentation to the council. This referendum will take place on Wednesday or Thursday following assembly Wednesday morning in which the question will be discussed. A two-thirds vote is necessary for passage.

TAKE STAND
“I come (to the meeting),” Goodstein told the council, “not only to bring the petition, but to ask the Student Council to take a stand on this issue. It is important; I feel it is time for you to go one way or another.” He reaffirmed that the main reason he wishes to abolish the rule forbidding drinking and possession of alcohol on campus is that Student Council and Honor Court members are “honor bound” to enforce it while the rest of the students are not. “If you feel it is wrong,” he said, “then state it.” Pointing out that council members are as involved with this rule as he (an Honor Court member) is, he asked the council to become “conspirators with me” in opposing the rule.

JACKSON
President Bill Council asked seniors Fred Sackett and Will Jackson to comment. Jackson said he didn’t believe the drinking rule should be abolished simply because student officials don't want to be “honor bound” to report drinking. He said that a change in the oath of office, which requires student officials to report violators of the drinking clause, would be more appropriate. “This vote should not,” he concluded, “be on the basis of the honor condition. It should be based on whether or not they (the students) are in favor of a wet campus.”

SACKETT
Sackett stated he believed that most students want a dry campus, and that last fall's “trunk rule” sufficiently alleviates the student’s problems. “I think the referendum,” he continued, “would be a good measure of student opinion, however.” David Walker questioned Sackett’s view that the students want a dry campus, and expressed his belief that the petition is right in calling the rule “anachronistic.”

CONTROL SELVES
Goodstein said he believed most students don’t want a dry campus. “I think the Davidson students are honorable enough,” he commented, “to control themselves, whether they have liquor here or at Hattie’s. I think the attitude around here is toward change.” Powell and First Vice-President Johnny Gresham agreed. “The trustees,” explained Gresham, “should have an idea of student opinion.” Jackson pointed out that in 1958 the rule as it now stands was put into the constitution by students “no less mature or responsible than us.” “I think we ought to be for or against a wet or dry campus,” John Fagg commented. He said he thought that if one phase of the honor system (that honor court and council members are “honor bound” to report drinking) could be ignored long enough to be eventually abolished, then the whole honor system could be abolished.

SEPARATE
Goodstein said he believed the honor system and the student body constitution are somewhat separate. “We are honor bound on this issue,” he explained. “They (the other students) are only ‘duty bound’.” Jackson then reiterated a previous point. “If this is a problem concerning a strain on the honor system,” he said, “correct it in the proper manner. If you don't want to be ‘honor bound’ to report violations, then change the oath so you won't be ‘honor bound.’ “If necessary, wipe it out because the students are against the rule, not because 30 students stagger around campus under this honor responsibility.”

HYPOCRITICAL
Powell commented, “It's hypocritical to have a rule which we bend over backward to avoid.” Council then stated his position which, as he later summarized it, is this: “We are still trying to define the real issue. In trying to understand it, we must be as informed as possible of all consequences of the proposed change. Knowing how the faculty is going to react is one aspect of understanding the problem.” Fagg pointed out that the petition has been directed toward the students. “Since there will be a referendum,” he added, “I think we ought to leave it up to the students.” A motion to table until the next meeting any expression of opinion was made and passed. Discussion of the problem was closed with a reminder from Council for members to consider all possible consequences of the proposed change before the next meeting.