Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp
Editor-in-Chief

IRVINE WELLING
Business Manager

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Another Edition

This month’s edition of the drinking rule represents, we believe, a progressive step, at least, beyond the unrealistic bounds by
which Davidson students were held until two months ago. The action taken Wednesday by the faculty does evidence a retreat—an
all too obvious one—from the amendments which were approved at the October meeting, however minor the most recent changes may
seem to be.

Simple guesswork and the faintest awareness of developments since the October meeting of the Board of Trustees would disclose that
this week’s changes were brought about by a restlessness concerning possibly further Trustee reaction to once-intrepid faculty decisions. There was
certainly sincere concern also for the responsibility which the October rule would have placed on coaches and others charged with
shepherding students away from the Davidson campus.

Viewed from this aspect, then, the action this week does represent a reasonable compromise. Significant steps have definitely been taken;
for example, students drinking at fraternity after-parties need no longer be uncertain as to whether they are breaking a rule—they
are not. Too, alcoholic beverages can legally be stored in automobile trunks.

On the other hand, certain factions are satisfied now once again in that Davidson College is still on record as
frowning upon, and thereby supposedly discouraging, the use of alcoholic beverages by students. And the coaches need no longer have
that lonesome feeling in trying to set and enforce rules they feel are necessary. As one acute observer remarked to
us yesterday, “The drys get their prohibition, and the wets get their liquor... and everyone should be satisfied.”

But we are not. Certainly we can see progress. But we also see the effects of political shenanigans—the plain case
of deciding only about just what the Trustees can be talked into going along with. It is a hopeless string
of legalisms woven from the dull threads of paradox. The college is opposed to the use of alcoholic beverages by
students—unless the student is married and has a home in the Town of Davidson. The college wants to protect its
good name by being represented officially only by sober-looking gentlemen—but, in areas in which the school can disclaim any direct
financial responsibility, the concern somehow lessens, and practically disappears.

We fully agree with the fact that the college has the right, and essentially the duty, to protect its name—for
the sake, among others, of its students. And we likewise uphold the desirability of all concerned for reasonable standards of
behavior to be exercised by students both on and off the campus. And we emphatically agree that the intemperate use
of alcohol is not a desirable practice on the part of anyone.

Ultimately, however, the old rule and its present revision effect nothing whatsoever to foster among students a truly mature attitude
toward alcohol, its uses, and its dangers. In making drinking a glamorous and rebellious act, the college is most unfortunately
discouraging the development of such an attitude, which we believe is the college’s precise responsibility to inculcate at this time
more than ever.

The Inherent Risk

The Student Council’s decision this week to abrogate its primary obligation along with that of the Honor Court, in the
enforcement of the Student Body Regulations is a terrific slap in the face of student initiative at Davidson. Clamoring out
of three months of dawdling and discussions, the council has grabbed at a speculative and visionary change which does appear
at first to be a grand idea for equalizing the enforcement of student conduct rules. It would be an ideal
situation for each student to be effectively bound to uphold such regulations, but unfortunately this is far from the actual
case. Rather, in this instance, everyone’s business would eventually be no one’s business.

The council has lifted the toughest load off the shoulders of student leaders, including its own members, but it has
not provided for the future care of this costly item called student judicial initiative. We sympathize with student leaders who
may have to squeal on a friend. But we cannot commiserate students who would so smoothly relieve themselves of such
a responsibility under the inevitable circumstances. Sooner or later the loss of effective student enforcement will result in the unfortunate
dissipation of what has come to be vital student interest in his own affairs.

The eventual takeover by the faculty of the enforcement of student conduct regulations due to ineffective or inept control by
students themselves is inevitable. Such a consequence is too high a price to pay for a little easier and more
comfortable life on campus for the elected student leaders. What needs to be done instead is to effect a clearer
distinction between the meaning and significance of the Student Body Regulations and the Honor Code. What would be a more
apropos change in this area, then, would be to remove the enforcement of the relatively less important conduct rules from
the Honor Court, in order that the court might be solely involved with honor offenses. Thus, the Student Council would
retain enforcement, and thereby the effective control and initiative, in matters of student conduct.

The council would do well to reconsider its drastic step along the lines of a more prudent adjustment of the
problem in this area. In the same manner, balloting next week on the maintenance of each item in the Student
Body Regulations should definitely be preceded by a full discussion on the implications and possible repercussions of the rescission of
all regulations. The inherent risk in abrogating either the rules or the responsibility of enforcing them is much too great
to be tried. The inequity which exists concerning the enforcement of these two sets of rules can be corrected without
placing personal alleviations above the best interests of the entire student body.

RUFUS ADAIR
JOHNNY CLARK
TOM CRAIG
MICHAEL HARRINGTON
Assistant Editors

BILL AITKEN
DONALD DAVIS
Managing Editors

LOUIS LESESNE
PAUL MARION
Assistant Managing Editor

TOM COOK
Associate Editors

SAM BOYTE
News Editor

HEYWARD CARTER
Feature Editor

CHRIS HAWK
Copy Editor

BOB VANCE
DICK SPENCER
Assistant Copy Editors

BILL BRIGGS
Sports Editor

ARCH McCALLUM
Assistant Sports Editor

TOM THEL
Photography Editor

CHIP PURVIS
Photographer

LOU HILL
JACK LINGLE
Cartoonists

BOB CAMERON
Assistant Business Manager

BILL WATSON
JOHN VISER
Advertising Manager

Circulation Manager

Contributors this week: Ron Snow, Tommy Cox, Bill Trotter, Cliff Duke, Yates Faison, Mason Stephenson, Mike May, Bill Seigler, Kern
Parker, Grey Pash, Robbie Hooker, Jim Cooley, Carter Fussell, Bruce Weihe, Al Varner, Kent Gladstone, Doug Crisp, K. D. Weeks,
Cameron Ferguson, John Williams, Bill Graham, Craig Wilson, Bob Reid, Bob Schofield, Dick Richards, Charles McEwen.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

Assuming Responsibility

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Queens’ Girl ‘Clarifies’ Harrington's ‘Generalities’

Dear Editor:

Mike Harrington's article has started some discussion on the Queens Campus. While maybe not a “typical” southern school (if there
is such a place), on campus are girls from the deep South to the far North; many are displeased with
the generalities Mike expressed.

The Southern girls Mike is referring to are in college. They don’t get a degree just by being pretty. They
could not have even gotten into any college if they had not been on the same intellectual level as boys
in high school. Class standing is not based on sex. Do Northern girls read more? The subscriptions to Time and
Newsweek on this campus are numerous. How many boys at Davidson know who Ernest Nagel is and care about Viet
Nam except in terms of draft laws?

The Seven Sisters Schools are in or near large cities. The newspapers are usually superior and cultural opportunities are vast.
The girls are aware of more because they're in the middle of more—but so are the boys they date! There
is really not that much difference in what is acceptable conversation for dating in the two sections. Northern dates do
not consist of discussing the world situation for three hours. What is discussed depends on the boys as well as
the girls involved. If Southern boys want Southern girls to show their intelligence, they will. We've got brains and are
using them.

Pat Bagg
Queens College

Morris

Dear Editor:

I find myself wanting partly to disagree with, and partly to second Steve Graham's letter of Dec. 2. Since Davidson
College is a private institution, its trustees have the right to require what they do, both of students and faculty—and
more, if they deem it wise. Whether their requirements are sound is quite another matter.

I am bothered by the fact that so little is said by anyone at Davidson about what relationship there may
be between Christianity and the liberal arts. So-called conservatives tend to maintain Davidson's Christian commitment without defending it. Admittedly, the
present form of Davidson’s commitment is hard to defend: it looks suspiciously like a commitment to Southern Protestant culture-religion.is provincial,
moralizing, and possibly anti-intellectual. So-called liberals, on the other side, seem often to be holding out for some kind of
bland tolerance, a sort of unqualified relativism. Such a position is as dogmatic as the "conservative" one, and possibly as
superficial and uninteresting, besides. It is important to grapple with uncritically held assumptions on both sides. It is unrealistic to
assume that there are no conflicts between Christianity and the liberal arts tradition; there are, and always have been. The
liberal arts have never been completely Christian in their orientation, and are now Christian only in a partial and derivative
sense. But it is also unrealistic to assume that theological convictions are always vague and indefensible, while the convictions of
academic liberalism are always clear and reasonable. I think a case can be made for a Christian liberal arts college.
Such a case would have to take seriously the notion that faith and learning should impinge upon one another. This
is a very different thing from presenting learning in such a way that it does not disturb faith, or faith
in such a way that it does not disturb learning. A Christian liberal arts college must hold two loyalties in
tension: one to Christianity, and the other to the liberal arts tradition as it presently exists. If this implies the
presence of a lively Christian community within the academic one, it also implies the presence of a number of non-Christians
who are not in some way disenfranchised or coerced because they are not Christians. The Trustees of Davidson are just
that — stewards who are to operate the college for the benefit of the students and the Church. Students will
be benefitted by good education: but it is not clear how far the Trustees are committed to good education, since
they have not allowed the assembling of a representative liberal arts faculty. (And, let’s face it, ideas are not best
represented by those who disagree with them.) And I cannot see that the Church is benefitted by regulations which present
it as overbearing and repressive.

William Morris
Episcopal Chaplain to Davidson College

‘Film Friends’ To Present Foreign Adventure Films
By WILLIAM TROTTER

A Preview

Film fare at Davidson will be exceedingly rich during the next few weeks. Beginning Monday and running through Wednesday will
be the highly-praised film version of Eugene O'Neill's classic play, A LONG DAY'S JOURNEY INTO NIGHT. The film was directed
by Sidney Lumet, whose most recent films include THE PAWNBROKER and THE HILL. Running with the O'Neill adaptation will be
a zany short subject called AN ANDY WARHOL SAMPLER. Warhol is the man who made "Pop Art" what it is
today, and this film gives peeks at a number of his notorious motion pictures, including SLEEP, KISS, EAT, and EMPIRE.
Film Friends’ season's ticket holders will be admitted free on Monday night only. A LONG DAY'S JOURNEY INTO NIGHT won
great acclaim when it first appeared and was well-received during a recent brief engagement in Charlotte. This is an ideal
opportunity for those interested in the drama to see a really first-rate film adaptation of a great play.

Highlighting the Film Friends’ showings in January will be one of the more recent films of the great Japanese director,
Kurosawa. YOJIMBO is a lusty, swinging, blood-and-thunder Samurai story, which subtly parodies the violence and senselessness of modern civilization. Although
the film literally reeks with high-spirited bloodletting, it manages, at one and the same time, to be appallingly funny. As
Time magazine put it in a review: "many customers will wonder whether to laugh or scream." Kurosawa clearly wants us
to do both. YOJIMBO stars Toshiro Mifune, a magnificent actor-athlete who has dominated a series of Kurosawa’s films with such
finesse and coolness that he makes the violence in the films a thing of terrible beauty. In YOJIMBO, Mifune plays
a down-and-out Samurai whose sword is for hire to the highest bidder. If this sounds suspiciously like the opening bit
for a western, it is intended to. Kurosawa’s THE SEVEN SAMURAI was stolen several years ago to make a gaudy
horse-opera called THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN. Here, Kurosawa turns the tables and gives his story the outlines of a typical B-grade
western. In the hands of a less shrewd and brilliant director, this could have ruined the film. With Kurosawa's acute
sense of satire, it merely enhances the richness of the story line. Mifune appears out of the mist, wrapped in
a filthy kimono, twitching his massive shoulders, his face encrusted with dirt, sweat and whiskers, carefully picking lice out of
his hair. He manages to look both ferocious and intensely comic. This, indeed, is the mood of YOJIMBO. The violence
of the film has a whirlwind force, a physical impact on the viewer, a kind of savage, gleeful, blood-lust. The
humor is sharply ironic and as incisive as a razor. As a commentary on modern man, YOJIMBO is devastating. As
entertainment, it is a spectacle of raw action and intrigue which the viewer will not easily forget. Film Friends are
looking forward to showing it at Davidson. It will be shown Jan. 3 and 5.

The final Film Friends selection for this semester will be Eisenstein’s famous IVAN THE TERRIBLE, one of the last and
possibly the greatest of the famed Russian director’s films. For second semester, Film Friends plans an expanded program of great
variety.

Cat O' Nine Tails
By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Once there was a rural tavern facing a little country road and a single set of railroad tracks. Not a
fancy beer hall, just a small grocery with gas pump, and it sold only the standard brands of domestic beer
inside its five concrete walls. The interior was dingy and poorly lighted, its red plastic booths torn and scarred with
many cigarette burns. This place should have made only a marginal living but it stood just half a mile north
of an all-men’s college. Business was good. So the country tavern saw many persons come and go; an occasional farmer,
a few truckers, a few more youths from the surrounding countryside, then the college crowd. A sociologist would marvel at
the clear-cut layers of this piece of an American cake — I saw more than diversities.

TOWNIES

The “townies”, as the non-college were labelled, gulped their beer sometimes loudly, sometimes almost apologetically. Usually staring, half-cursing, always envying
the college crowd. There were the freshmen. One short beer to announce their masculinity and then a dance around the
room to celebrate their intoxication for anyone bored enough to notice. Out of bleary eyes the sophomores would nod wisely,
then return to a sage evaluation of their own awesome capacities. Everyone ignored the townies. Every so often a boy
would come in alone and drink alone. First short beers, then long ones, finally a quart or two. Maybe he
played a sad song or two on the battered jukebox in the corner. It didn’t really matter. Because soon he’d
pull out a soiled letter or grade report — read it once more or just stare at the ceiling, slip
out to his car or across to the tracks. A loneliness and a very real fear.

SOPHISTICATES

There were the sophisticates and the cool boys. These lordly Aryans sprawled out knowingly over the booths, pretending to ignore
everyone else. Yet strange band often forgotten), but even one of this breed would have that same expression of loneliness
and fear (sought so desperately to hide) steal into his eyes. I knew that bewildered look. Yes, and there were
the flits. Nobody exactly reads them out of the human race, but there has always been that casual jerk of
the head, that knowing smile placing a man beyond the pale of the good guys. Sometimes the faces of these
outcasts registered the pain of this unnatural status, but often this breed seemed to have a good time in spite
of themselves — much to the satisfaction of many uneasy consciences. The country tavern saw them all and its beer
pennants made no comment. The jukebox and the cash register bleated out their passionate sounds. The boys came and sometimes
the men left. The lords of the earth, the good guys, the flits, the townies. And outside this dream world
the sun shone, the moon rose and fell. The trains lumbered through and the highway roadbed kept watch.

WHO AM I?

But if a man would stand somewhere so that his mind could take in the whole scene, all the faces
would blend into one very human face, the voices into a single moment of silence. In the silence there were
the questions: “Who am I? Where am I? I'm alone, too alone?” The skies never split with the thundering of
a heavenly answer and still the beer cans clinked in the trash barrel. But an answer was there and a
man could experience this answer — even if he could not utter it. We were one in our loneliness and
in our love of joy-in-life, divided only by ourselves into caste lines of features and manners that crippled only the
dividers and intensified their own alienation. This was that answer of the silence. These dividers, these ones who would segregate,
only cut themselves off from the peace-in-life they sought. If they would only see the oneness of men — yet
have men not always been blind? But could it not be different! But then how?

B.C.
