GERMAN SAYS MIXON TOOK WRONG ROAD (See Page Two) VOL. LIV. The Davidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1965

(Staff Photo by Smith) GREEK WEEK CHARIOT RACE Sig Eps Race Around Patterson Court

GREEK WEEK CONCLUDES Pledges Endure Pains

Tomorrow will be greeted with a gasp of relief as the Greek Week activities for over 200 freshmen end. The week’s activities have included everything from the care of dead bodies to chariot racing.

Greek Week activities began on Monday with a banquet for all pledges and pledge trainers at the College Union. The speaker at the banquet was Dr. William McK. Wright who spoke to the pledges about “Brotherhood,” with special emphasis on the duties of pledges. Wright, the first IFC speaker for the semester, has contributed articles to Banta’s Greek Exchange, a national Greek letter fraternity magazine.

On Wednesday the first Greek Week Annual Field Day was held at Patterson Fraternity Court. The first event of the day was a chariot race, followed by a tug-of-war across the creek. Chariots were to be constructed by the pledges for less than $5 apiece, and could be pulled by four pledges, with two pledges riding in the chariots. The $5 limit for materials limited the appearance of the “chariots” which included modified bicycles, wheelbarrows, and little red wagons. The Sigma Chi's bright red chariot was the closest thing that resembled a chariot while the Sig Ep’s roller skate vehicle was by far the noisiest. After three heats, won by the ATO’s, Phi Gams, and Sigma Chis, there was a final race which was won handily by the ATOs after a collision at the start of the race upset the Sigma Chis and the Phi Gams. Piloting the ATO chariot were Lowell Bryan, Geoff Birkhead, Julian Prosser, and Jim McLaughlin, with Bill Schmickle and Holmes Eleazer as passengers. The tug-of-war was won by the SAE’s after many competitors ended up standing in the creek.

Besides the IFC sponsored Field Day and Banquet, each of the 12 fraternities have kept their pledges busy with work projects as well as odd jobs at the fraternity houses. Most pledges have risen with the dawn to march in cadence to breakfast, and many felt moved to sing songs before entering the house. The early morning strains of “Dixie Rose” which floated up to the dorms, for example, came from a group of shivering KA pledges standing outside their fraternity house. Brightly colored shirts were seen on campus this week worn by Pika, Sigma Nu and KA pledges. Pledge projects completed by each pledge class included: Pika—Painting United Presbyterian Church of Davidson; KA—Painting fence at McEver Field in Davidson, Sigma Nu—Painting surplus jet aircraft at Mooresville Recreation Center, Phi Delt—Cleaning up railroad tracks in Mooresville Center at the request of the Garden Club, Pi Kapp—Painting outside and two interior rooms of the Negro Recreation Center in Cornelius, Beta—Cleaning up the Huntersville Chronic Disease Hospital, Sigma Chi—Cleaning up the Nevins Vocational School, ATO—Cleaning up Center Presbyterian Church, Kappa Sig—Painting floor at Davidson Teen Canteen, Phi Gams—Work at McEver Field, and Sig Ep—Work at Alexander House in Charlotte and for ROTC Department. The work projects were carried on for two or three afternoons this week. Evenings, until 10 p.m., were usually spent by the pledges at IFC basketball games, with pledge tests, or in house clean-ups.

Library Now Open Until 12 Midnight

The Davidson College Library is now open each weekday night until midnight. This new closing time, initiated on Feb. 1, is designed to provide more service to the student body. The new schedule will be in effect for one semester on a trial basis to see if student use warrants such a plan. A survey of attendance on random nights will be made between the regular closing hour of eleven and the new closing hour to determine the student response. The library’s extended hours are a result of requests made often in the past by the Student Council and THE DAVIDSONIAN. The possibility was raised again this fall and pursued by Councilman John Gresham.

(Staff Photo by Smith) SIGMA CHIS ON CHARIOT Jim Selley (left) and Glenn Withrow Ready For Race

Students To Oppose Gag Law

A group of Davidson students formed a committee this week to work in conjunction with the American Association of University Professors Speaker-Ban Committee in its efforts to have the “Speaker-Ban law” repealed. Under the leadership of senior Jim Waldron, the loosely organized student committee hopes to obtain the endorsement of the AAUP Committee within the next few weeks. With this endorsement, says Waldron, the students’ job would be “to supplement the actions of the AAUP Committee, rather than to work autonomously. We would be prepared to work for them and to help them by doing things they need done, but can't do themselves.” Among the possible actions of the committee would be efforts to get student newspapers and student governments in colleges throughout North Carolina to take stands on the “Speaker-Ban law.” The committee would also work at Davidson to encourage student support for all constructive efforts to promote the repeal of the law. This would include seeking endorsements from the various student organizations. In actions already taken, the committee has prepared a summary of its preliminary legal research into possible avenues to take stands on the “Speaker-Ban law” on the basis of federal constitutional law. Among the avenues of attack would be the contention that the law is too vague, as well as the fact that it violates the First Amendment, which relates to freedom of speech. Although the committee hopes that the law will be repealed by legislation, it would be willing to have the case taken to the Supreme Court on the above-mentioned basis. The student committee is not yet fully organized, and it hopes that other interested students will soon join it.

Davidson’s Chapter of the American Association of University Professors has begun in recent weeks a statewide campaign to have North Carolina’s “Communist Speaker-Ban Law” repealed. After initiating the movement with a resolution calling for the repeal of the “gag law,” the local AAUP chapter led the whole faculty to adopt a similar resolution and is now seeking the aid of individuals and organizations throughout the state in an effort to achieve repeal of the law. Carrying their cause to a meeting of the full faculty on Jan. 19, the AAUP professors presented a resolution similar to their own, which the faculty adopted by a vote of 56 to 7. The faculty's resolution urged that the gag law be repealed because of the faculty’s feeling that “this law imposes unnecessary and inappropriate restrictions upon the officers of the institutions concerned... and will, in the long run, prove to be extremely detrimental to the reputation and good name of North Carolina's state-supported institutions of higher learning.” The Davidson AAUP members began their efforts last April when they passed a resolution opposing the “gag law,” but they withheld it from publication during last year's political campaign, releasing it on Jan. 15. In the statement, the professors expressed their opposition to the law “as professional educators, as Christians, as Americans, as North Carolina taxpayers, and as parents.” “As educators,” they said, “we know that minds grow to their fullest in an atmosphere of controversy and argument, and that excellence is achieved when the fewest possible restrictions are imposed upon the freedom of students to inquire. “We are proud to be citizens of a country that enjoys freedom of speech,” continued the professors. “The blood of our fathers, and some of our own, has been shed for that freedom; we love it too much to adopt the methods of tyrants in order to protect it.” At the time of the release of the AAUP’s resolution, the organization also appointed a Speaker-Ban Committee to conduct a campaign to have the law repealed. The committee—composed of Professors Richard Gift, Chairman, Louise Nelson, W. B. Patterson, P. B. Secor, and Locke White—began its work by framing the resolution the faculty passed. It then proceeded to put into effect its current program aimed at enlisting the support of individuals and organizations throughout the state. Explaining that the function of the Speaker-Ban Committee is primarily educational, Chairman Gift said, “I feel that the people of North Carolina don’t understand the law and that when it is understood, it will be repealed.”

Martin In Europe, Attends Meetings

President D. Grier Martin, accompanied by Mrs. Martin, left for Europe on Jan. 24. They plan to return to Davidson on Feb. 15. Martin first traveled to Cannes, France, to attend the International Conference on Student Exchange and Travel Programs, which ended on Jan. 29. Robert Stone, assistant to the president, said that Martin was urged to make the trip by Dr. J. O. Embry, professor of French. “It was felt that Davidson should be represented at the conference since we now have a Junior Year Abroad Program,” said Stone. Martin is presently visiting the two Davidson Junior Year Abroad Programs at Montpelier, France, and Marburg, Germany. He will then travel to Paris to visit the two French girls who were guests of the Martin family in Davidson for several weeks this past summer. Dr. and Mrs. Martin plan to complete their trip by visiting their son Mike and his wife at Rennes, France. While there they will be able to see their new grandson for the first time.‘‘Educational” program, the committee has prepared an editorial response for WBT in Charlotte and is working on an article for the national bulletin of the AAUP. If the need arises, it is also ready for further press and TV presentations. The committee is actively soliciting the aid of other organizations in North Carolina. The state board of the N.C. League of Women Voters has already announced its opposition to the gag-law. Davidson Chapter President J.H. Ostwalt has sent a letter to all other AAUP chapters in the state urging them to join in the fight to obtain repeal of the law. Chairman Gift is “fairly optimistic” concerning a response from these chapters and feels that “only with the leverage obtained by contacts with other organizations will our opposition to the Speaker-Ban law be fruitful.”

The committee is also working to enlist the support of individuals, both alumni and students, throughout the state. Ostwalt has received “very encouraging” support in the form of letters and money from judges, educators, physicians, and other professional men; he has also received some harshly critical letters from people not in favor of the AAUP stand. In other actions, the Davidson professors presented their case to the Mecklenburg delegation to the General Assembly on Jan. 27. Ostwalt reported that the delegation gave them a “very courteous and patient reception, though they didn’t say if they had formed an opinion.” Several of the Mecklenburg delegates voted for the Speaker-Ban law.

The law, which bans communists or persons who have pleaded the Fifth Amendment from appearing at any state-operated educational institution, was rushed through the N.C. legislature in the closing minutes of the 1963 session. According to Ostwalt, “The law has caused a negative reaction in the academic community throughout the whole nation.” College President D. Grier Martin publicly expressed his opposition to the law shortly after it was passed, stating that he felt the law was unnecessary and detrimental to the state programs of higher education in North Carolina.

CATS CONTINUE MOUNTAINEER FEUD (See Page Five)

NUMBER FIFTEEN

AAUP Initiates Effort To Repeal NC Gag Law

Entire Faculty Shows Strong Support, 56-7

OSTWALT

Faculty Members React To Gag Law Proposal

By BOB VANCE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The recent stand of the Davidson chapter of the American Association of University Professors and the College faculty in opposition to the “Speaker-Ban Law” has caused Davidson professors to comment in a variety of ways as to their feelings on the matter. Expressing a widely-held point of view, Dr. P.B. Secor stated, “This kind of law actually increases the possibility of the spread of communism because it often tends psychologically to enhance the attraction to the young of ‘forbidden fruit.’ Where powerful ideas are suppressed, they often become more effective underground.

“These kinds of laws give Communists ammunition for charges that we don't take seriously our freedom of speech, of the press, of religion, etc.,” continued Secor. “They say that one class in our society tries to maintain its own interests by having a closed society, by prohibiting ideas which might be subversive.” Secor emphasized, however, that what he found most offensive in the law was its making it impossible for people who have pleaded the Fifth Amendment to speak in state schools. “It is a fundamental right that no man should be required to testify against himself, for whatever reason,” Secor declared. “It's a dangerous, sick situation when a person is penalized by our saying that he's less than qualified to speak because he once pleaded the Fifth. This constitutional right civilizes us and distinguishes us from the Communists.”

Presenting a different view of the “gag-law” question, Dr. J.W. Reid said, “I see the point of view of a legislator who's unwilling to supply ready-made facilities and a ready-made audience to those speakers who openly advocate the overthrow of our government.” Continued Reid, “I don’t define the limits of freedom of speech, but would leave it to the legislature.”

REPORT DUE MARCH 1

Fraternities Evaluated

By WALT DRAKE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The fraternity evaluation committee, organized by the Student Council and under the chairmanship of Will Jackson, will issue a report of its findings on March 1. This report will be distributed to students, faculty, and administration, and will summarize the actions and findings of the committee since its formation several months ago. The basis for the committee's formation and its continuance revolves around the question, “Are the fraternities serving the needs of Davidson College and its students, and are there specific steps that may be taken to meet the needs?” The committee is open to volunteers, and presently serving on the committee are Bill Council, Pat Fisher, Rufus Hallmark, Ed Haselden, Art Ross, Rick von Unwerth, Paxton Wray, Assistant Dean of Students Robert Jones, Assistant Director of Admissions Robert Young, Chaplain Will Terry, Dr. John Kelton, and chairman Will Jackson.

Several courses of action have been taken by the committee, and the March report will present some results of these actions. A notice was distributed to the student body requesting interested persons to express in writing their comments on the present fraternity situation. Jackson estimated that around twenty persons submitted statements to the committee. Other questionnaires were composed by the committee and sent to different groups to assess the situation. The presidents of the IFC, Student Council, ODK, and Senior Class for the last ten years at Davidson were asked to express their opinion of the fraternity situation while they attended Davidson. Also, three men who were not members of a fraternity while at Davidson were chosen at random from each graduating class of the past ten years, and were polled as to their evaluation of the fraternity system. Jackson stated that the response to these questionnaires has been heavy and will be useful to the committee.

The committee also plans to send prepared questionnaires to other schools in order to find out how other fraternity systems work and what changes have been needed or made in the various systems. However, Jackson stated that the committee is primarily interested in the situation as it is here and now, and although the questionnaires sent to past leaders and students and other schools will be helpful, the main emphasis will be placed on information concerning the present situation at Davidson. The committee has interviewed and plans to continue to interview members of the current student body, faculty, and administration in order to learn their views and suggestions. All of the committee findings will be cited in the report.

The executive secretaries of each of the national fraternities represented on this campus have been contacted by the committee, and asked if they would be willing to come to the campus and be interviewed by the committee. The response has not been too encouraging, Jackson commented, but he hopes that several executive secretaries will visit Davidson. Each fraternity president has been asked by the fraternity evaluators to lead a discussion in his fraternity concerning the value of the national fraternity to the chapter. After such a discussion at a fraternity meeting, the fraternity president will write up a brief report for the committee stating what the general consensus of the chapter is concerning the national organization, what the fraternity gets out of national affiliation, and what financial obligation the chapter has to the national organization.

Jackson concluded his statements to THE DAVIDSONIAN by commenting that the fraternity situation at Davidson is a unique one, due to the isolation, small size, all-male student body and other factors. Therefore, he proposed that any solutions will probably have to be unique also. He emphasized that the committee is trying to open several areas for consideration, and is basing its recommendations on information received from all interested parties involved in the question — those satisfied with the current situation, those dissatisfied with the situation, and those who see a need for some changes in the present set-up. Re-emphasizing the complexity of the problem, Jackson stated that the committee does not want it to be thought that their report will be a complete answer to the problems. However, the committee hopes to offer some concrete recommendations based on their findings. Jackson expressed the hope of the committee that the report will be given consideration by all involved in the problem. Following the report, the committee will continue to meet and explore the problem even more thoroughly.