PAGE FOUR FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1965

Fraternity Committee: Who Are Members?

Who are the twelve men whose pending report on fraternities has become the most frequent topic of conversation on campus in recent weeks? And what is the “Fraternity Evaluation Committee” that they constitute?

As a result of a furor touched off in November by Robert C. Young, assistant director of admissions and former fraternity liaison officer, and after THE DAVIDSONIAN had called editorially for action, the Student Body President Will Jackson established the Fraternity Evaluation Committee in December.

On a motion by Fred Sackett, Council unanimously appointed Jackson to “chair a committee whose purpose would be to investigate the social life of Davidson students and to prepare a report to be presented to the Council by March 1, 1965.”

In compliance with the motion, Jackson appointed a committee consisting of 11 men. Included were four fraternity men and two Independents from the Student Body, three administration residents, and a faculty member. A third Independent, Paxton Wray, was elected to the committee by a vote of the committee itself.

Including Jackson, the committee numbers 12, all of whom—save the three Independents—are members of fraternities. The members include:

BILL COUNCIL. A Phi Delt junior, Council is the only student on the committee who is not a member of the Senior Class. From Washington, D.C., the vice-president of the Student Body is currently serving as a freshman hall counselor.

PAT FISHER. A senior and a member of the football team, Fisher is a member of Phi Delta Theta.

ROBERT G. JONES. A Davidson graduate and a member of the Psychology Department, Jones is a member of Phi Gamma Delta. As assistant dean of students, he presently serves as fraternity liaison officer. While an undergraduate, the dean was president of the IFC.

JOHN KELTON. Also a Davidson graduate and a member of the Psychology Department, the young professor is a member of Sigma Chi.

PAXTON WRAY. A senior from Asheboro, Wray is serving in his second year as a freshman hall counselor. Pledge trainer of Pi Kappa Alpha this year, he is generally considered one of the most forceful fraternity spokesmen on the committee.

WILL TERRY. A Davidson graduate in the Class of 1954, the college chaplain is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon.

RICK von UNWERTH. A senior ATO, von Unwerth is president of the IFC. From Georgia, von Unwerth offered in chapel in November the fraternities’ answer to the criticisms leveled against them.

EO WHASELDEN. A senior from Columbia, S.C., Haselden is usually placed among the more conservative members of the committee. A former member of the Interfraternity Council (IFC), he is president of Beta Theta Pi.

WILL JACKSON. Ex officio chairman of the committee, Jackson votes only in the event of a tie. A Beta, the student body president is serving in his second year as a freshman hall counselor.

---

Todd, Harrington Run For Newspaper Head

ELECTIONS MONDAY, MARCH 8

Chapel address by Will Jackson, explaining election procedure, schedule, and rules.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10

Deadline for filing for office. (Candidate files for student body office, Honor Court, Freshman Advisor, Student Council, and cheerleader.)

THURSDAY, MARCH 11

Chapel: Passing out of election cards.
6 p.m.: Deadline for turning in stencils of platforms.
Platforms returned to candidates by 6 p.m.

MONDAY, MARCH 15

Chapel: Speeches by candidates for Student Body President
Voting for: Vice-President of Student Body, Secretary-Treasurer of Student Body, Honor Court Members, Editor of Quips and Cranks, Editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks

TUESDAY, MARCH 16

Voting for: President of Student Body, Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Secretary-Treasurer (runoff), Honor Court Members (runoff)

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17

Voting for: Cheerleaders, President of College Union, Runoffs, if necessary

THURSDAY, MARCH 18

Chapel: Presidential Candidates of YMCA speeches
Voting for: YMCA officers, Freshman Advisor, Runoffs, if necessary

FRIDAY, MARCH 19

Voting for: Runoffs, if necessary

MONDAY, MARCH 22

Voting for: Student Council representatives

TUESDAY, MARCH 23

Voting for: Runoffs, if necessary.

---

Allen Explains Duties Of Court’s Members

By HUGH ALLEN
Honor Court Chairman

To stand in judgment of your peers is a lonely honor, but one that involves a grave responsibility. Those members of the student body who choose to run for the Honor Court must be willing to accept this responsibility. The Honor Court member must not take his responsibility lightly, and he should never use his position to exploit his fellow students. But he should understand that with the privilege of living in an honorable community goes the responsibility of maintaining its integrity.

The Honor Court is not an “axe organization” but is the most vital organization of the student body. Its purpose is not to uphold honor but to help to maintain an atmosphere in which honor can be respected and practiced.

To fulfill this purpose, the court members will make interpretations and classifications to the student body concerning their responsibility of living under the honor system; they will investigate suspected violations of the honor code; and they will hold trial only upon sufficient evidence.

If elected to the Honor Court, a student will be honor bound to report violations of both the honor code and student body regulations. He will maintain a policy of secrecy concerning the trials of the Court. This secrecy is necessary to guard against the defamation of character of those on trial. But the court member should be attentive to criticism and welcome suggestions.

I encourage only those members of the student body who have a clear understanding of the obligation of an Honor Court member and who have a sincere desire to serve their fellow students in this capacity to run for the Honor Court.

---

Nominations Limited To Members Of Staff

Mike Harrington and John Todd will run for the editorship of THE DAVIDSONIAN, the Publications Board announced Wednesday.

Arnie Snider, Bill McGuire, and Woody Coleman are candidates for Quips and Cranks editor. John Compton and Charles Vick were nominated for the editorship of Scripts ‘n Pranks.

One other student had asked that he be considered for nomination for the Scripts ‘n Pranks editorship. However, he did not receive the approval of the board.

“The board's policy is to limit nomination to qualified members of the staff of the publication involved,” explained Charlie Dibble, chairman of the Publications Board. “The only time the Publication Board intends to look beyond the staff of a publication would be when there aren't two qualified staff members willing to run.

“The fellow turned down by the board was generally considered qualified for the position. Nevertheless, the board was wary of setting what could be a dangerous precedent where any member of the student body could conceivably be nominated and elected to an editorial position.

“In a situation like this campus politics could easily get the upper hand. And it's conceivable that a completely unqualified person would be elected,” he continued.

“The board views the present nominating procedure as an incentive. Suppose a very popular person wants to edit one of the publications but doesn’t want to work his junior year on the staff for one reason or another. If he were nominated and his opponents were not dynamic personalities, I’m sure—knowing the way Davidson votes—he would be the candidate selected.

“On the other hand, if a junior wants to be nominated under the system we now have, he’s going to work on this year’s publication. And he's going to work hard because he knows he’s going to need experience—and in all probability his editor's recommendation—if he expects to be nominated.”

---

Nominations Made For Campus Posts

Nomination of candidates for election to several campus offices has been made with other selections pending in the near future.

Four names were submitted for President of the YMCA by the Y Cabinet. Those nominated were Buck Lawrimore, Murray Smith, Thom Blair, and Neill McBryde. These nominations are pending acceptance by the candidates.

Candidates for president of the Student Union are selected in a different manner. Under a policy instituted last year to open the office to more students, anyone wanting to run can submit a letter of intent and qualification to the Union members, and a faculty member.team, answer to Bob Young's original blast at fraternities. Fisher is president of Lingle Manor, which—while open to all students—is in practice the only organization of Independents on campus.

PAXTON WRAY. Added as the “twelfth man” on the committee, this Charlottean is an Independent who is highly critical of fraternities.

RUFUS HALLMARK. A senior, Hallmark is generally considered one of the most outstanding Independents on campus. He is a member of both Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary scholastic and leadership fraternities, respectively.

BOB YOUNG, “The man who lit the fuse.” Young is assistant director of admissions. A 1961 Davidson graduate, he is a member of Phi Delta Theta. As assistant dean of students last year, he served as fraternity liaison officer.

Campus Sex Problem Considered By Rule

By WILL NORMAN

A Review

John T. Rule’s article “Must the Colleges Police Sex?” (The Atlantic Monthly, April 1964) should be of special interest to us here at Davidson. Although the immediate topic under consideration is the controversy over visiting regulations in college dormitories, Rule treats the problem of sex on campus as part of a wider problem which is just as relevant to controversies over drinking restrictions and fraternity systems. After initially outlining the forces which have determined current sexual mores among students, Rule criticizes two attitudes which in his opinion are held by a rather large number of students. The most common rationalization used to justify intercourse is the doctrine that sex relations are “offensive or not offensive on the sole basis of the particular relationship between the two individuals involved,” i.e., it’s all right as long as you're in love. Another attitude, especially appealing to more timid young souls, is that “sex is loads of fun but not very important.” Neither of these attitudes takes into consideration the real issue at stake, the role of intercourse in finding sexual maturity and personal identity, and it is here that the college has a legitimate concern with the problem of sex on campus.

Rule contends that the problem of sex on campus can take two forms, depending upon the educational theory to which the college subscribes. Those colleges which believe that education begins and ends in the classroom impose strict regulations on student conduct with the aim of protecting themselves from the criticism of trustees, alumni, and in the case of state universities, taxpayers and legislators. Rule is quite frank in his condemnation of this position: Students... all must be treated as too immature to have good judgment. A college first prevents by limiting opportunity, then weeds out the bad to protect the good. The facade of the rules and the status of punishment make the university and its counselors of students authoritarian figures not to be confided in or, for that matter, trusted. It is the failure of the college to listen with calmness rather than rage to young defenders of sexual privilege that tends to commit the gross injustice of punishing guilty and innocent alike for the crimes that they might commit if given the opportunity.

Fortunately, not all universities are so backward. More enlightened institutions subscribe to the philosophy of “total education,” the belief that the totality of the college community is involved in education. These universities have recognized the importance of considering not only the overall intent of rules and regulations but their effects on the development of individual students as well.

COL. PAUL WHEATON Advises at Vietnamese Military Academy

There was an article about the family of Lt. Col. Paul Wheaton, Davidson's former ROTC director, who described their experiences in South Viet Nam before forced evacuation. Mrs. Wheaton and her children are now with her parents. The Wheatons lived for eight months in Dalat, South Viet Nam, after leaving Davidson. Wheaton is commanding officer of US troops at Dalat and was undergoing treatment for a sinus infection. Mrs. Wheaton saw the strange war in South Viet Nam firsthand. While she was in Saigon, she watched critically wounded American soldiers being brought into the main hospital. This was in September. Three weeks after this, Mrs. Wheaton worked in the city hospital at Dalat as a Red Cross Gray Lady—on that day there was a Buddhist demonstration at the main pagoda. “It was frightening, as the rioters carried clubs and chanted loudly. On the top of the pagoda was a banner saying ‘Americans Go Home, We Do Not Want You.’”

As tensions rose in this small resort town, the Wheatons’ first concern was for their children. All staple groceries and meats had to be flown in from Saigon—"if the plane failed to fly—no groceries.” Then only a few weeks ago Viet Cong activity was reported in a village about a mile from the Wheaton home. News of the evacuation was given to the Wheatons just 12 hours in advance. Aside from the difficulties of packing most of one's belongings in 12 hours, there was this added detail: all the foot-lockers and bags that were packed had to be left at the airport. “All of our belongings were left in Dalat—except the clothes on our backs.” The Wheaton family was flown from Dalat in a military plane armed with machine guns.

For eight months tensions have been rising in this small Carolina town...

Campus To Install Lighting System

Mercury-vapor lamps will be installed on the campus soon, College Engineer Grover Meetze announced this week. The lights will be mounted on aluminum poles. Wooden pegs now mark the proposed location of these lights. Meetze remarked concerning the college’s installation of a lighting system that will cover the front area of the campus and will extend to the Union in the back and to the dormitories and Concord Road on either side. Underground wires will feed and connect the lights. “They are necessary. You can't please everybody.”

THE UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH: SEWANEE, TENNESSEE

Announces A 1965 SUMMER SESSION FOR MEN AND WOMEN

Eight weeks; June 21-August 14
Liberal arts curriculum
Forest environment
Sewanee Summer Music Center
Student Summer Theatre

For the Summer School Bulletin Address the Director of the Summer School

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

THE FUN BEGINS AT the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

Open ‘til 1 a.m. Monday—Friday
The Hub