PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Social Council To Host Four Preps For Concert

The Four Preps, one of America’s top vocal groups, will appear on campus Nov. 20, as the principal feature of the Social Council’s fall concert weekend. In addition to the concert, the Council will sponsor two combo dances, one tomorrow night and the other following the Preps on the 20th.

The Preps, who will entertain from 8 to 10 p.m., have made college appearances in all 50 states, averaging 150 college concerts every year. They started out as a high school group in Hollywood, Calif. in 1955, and they became the youngest vocal group ever to sign a long-term contract with a major record label when they signed with Capitol in 1956. In addition to their college concerts, the Preps make numerous television and nightclub appearances. Among their “million-seller” records are “26 Miles,” “Big Man,” and “Down by the Station.”

The Social Council is having the Fabulous Five at tomorrow evening's dance from 7:30 to 11:30 in Chambers basement, and Chairman Dan Campbell said the Council is hoping to land a “big name” group for Nov. 20. “We're playing the odds,” he said. “We're going to try to get somebody big at the last minute, when the cost won't be so great. If we can't find a big name, we'll just get together another local combo.” Campbell said the dance concert weekend would last from 10:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m. and that the Council would not sponsor post-game buffet suppers or post-dance breakfasts on either weekend.

Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abbott
Daggy
Martin
S. Scott
Abernethy
Fredericksen
McGill
Stroud
Bondurant
Holland
Minter
Wolf
Burts
Lloyd
Mrs. Nicholls
Workman
Covington
Marrotte
Richey

Anderson To Speak At Vespers

The Reverend Hugh Anderson, professor of Biblical criticism and theology in the Divinity School of Duke University, will speak at Vespers Sunday night. As last year’s Otts Lecturer, Dr. Anderson presented a provocative study of the quest for the historical Jesus to Davidson students.

A native of Scotland, Anderson received his undergraduate degrees and PhD from Glasgow University. He completed further work at Oxford University. From 1944-46 Anderson served the British Army as a chaplain and after the war became a lecturer in Glasgow University. In 1951 he became the minister of Trinity Presbyterian Church in Glasgow. Dr. Anderson accepted a position at Duke in 1957 and since then has lectured extensively throughout the United States. He is the author of several well-known theological studies, including Historians of Israel and Jesus and Christian Origins.

Dr. Randolph Taylor Will Speak Monday

Dr. Randolph Taylor, Presbyterian minister of the Church of the Pilgrims, Washington, D.C., will speak in Chapel on Monday. A 1951 graduate of Davidson, Dr. Taylor was a member of Kappa Sigma, Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Delta Pi, the Eumenean Literary Society, the YMCA Cabinet and was listed in Who's Who among students in American colleges and universities. As an alumnus, Dr. Taylor has served as vice-president of the Davidson College Alumni Association for 1959-60. This past year he was a candidate for alumni representative to the Board of Trustees.

Dr. Taylor holds a BD degree from Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., and a PhD from Aberdeen University, Scotland. Last February Dr. Taylor spoke in Charlotte as head of the Fellowship of Concern, a group of Presbyterian ministers and laymen giving moral and financial support to any minister under pressure for his pro-desegregation views. Dr. Taylor lives with his wife and four daughters in Washington, D.C.

Industrial Economist To Lecture Tuesday

“Sophisticated Techniques of Management Decision-Making” will be the lecture topic of Dr. Richard I. Levin in chapel Tuesday. Professor of Industrial Management at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Levin is one of the speakers in a series on economics. Dr. Louise Nelson of the Davidson Economics Dept. sees this as an excellent follow-up to the Theobald lectures on automation.and cybernetics. Theobald dealt with how business is using high-speed computers to replace workers, whereas Levin will explain how management is making marvelous use of these machines in a profit-making economy. Management decision is of wide general interest, as evidenced in a recent article in Fortune, and is not limited to business. Levin will show management decision-making as a complex process dealing with talent, education, creativity, and ability. Dr. Levin holds BS and MS degrees from North Carolina State University in Industrial Engineering and a PhD from the University of North Carolina. He is also the author of a book in the area of industrial works.

The Hard-Working Four Preps To Stop At Davidson

Davidson Debate Team Journeys To Atlanta

By JOHN WILLIAMS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Four varsity and four freshman members of the Davidson debate team left yesterday for Atlanta to compete in the Emory Peachtree Tournament. Sponsored by the Barkeley Forum, this tournament will last from Thursday until Saturday. Each team will debate eight rounds and, if they reach the finals, will debate several more rounds. This is considered one of the better tournaments in the South.

Both the varsity and the novice teams have already shown signs of achieving their first success. At the University of North Carolina, the varsity won five out of twelve rounds and, according to Tom Earnhardt, “learned a great deal about college debating.” The competition included teams from West Point, Princeton, Georgetown, Illinois, Emory, Duke, and Wake Forest.

For three of the four members of the varsity team, Mike had debated since high school. Cliff Kirkpatrick, the fourth member, did some debating last year. Greg Haynes, who sometimes debates in place of Kirkpatrick, is in the same category as the first three. It was also the first time that the team members had had to debate both the affirmative and negative sides of the question, which this year reads, “Resolved that law enforcement agencies should be given greater freedom in the investigation and prosecution of crime.”

Under the revived debating program and its new coach Ray McMillin, the first semester will more than likely be a trial and error period in which they can gain experience by debating teams which have been together for three or four years. The debaters get their information from the Davidson library and from outside sources. The reading necessary to prepare for a debate seems, according to Earnhardt, “almost like another humanities course.”

In the near future, the team will compete in the James Madison Invitational at Princeton, the Dixie Classic at Wake Forest, and several other tournaments. On Dec. 1, the Cambridge team will come to Davidson for a debate on the Vietnam crisis. In addition, there will soon be debates open to the student body which will include both inter-squad debates and exchange debates with neighboring schools.

A HARD-NOSED FRESHMAN?

No, it’s not a longhair freshman under that beanie on his way to class clutching his Humanities syllabus. Showing their great concern for everyone around Davidson, members of the notorious Fourth Floor of East brought a new member into the Class of ’69, a Davidson Chambermaid. (Photo by Lesesne).

THE FUN BEGINS AT HATTIE’S

“Just up the road....”

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone ED 2-2414

CONTINENTAL RENT-A-CAR
$5.00 A DAY 5¢ A MILE
1001 South Tryon St., Charlotte, N.C.
Free Pick Up and Delivery Service To and From The Airport
Phone 333-1111

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Bostonian Shoes
Naturally

For town and campus, try this vigorously masculine, beautifully crafted moccasin in handsome supple Scotch grain leather. For the pace-setting traditionalist.

CHARGE ACCOUNTS INVITED
Mitchell Mack—Class ‘42
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

How to make a snap course out of a tough one

Obviously, Olds 4-4-2 crammed for its finals. It masters miles with a 400-cubic-inch V-8, 4-barrel carb and a rumbling pair of pipes. Cools corners with heavy-duty suspension and front and rear stabilizers. Goes to the head of its class with the sportiest configuration ever to top four red-line tires. All this, like matching its modest price to your pocket!

STEP OUT FRONT IN A ROCKET ACTION CAR!

LOOK TO OLDS FOR THE NEW!
TORONADO + NINETY-EIGHT + DELTA 88 + DYNAMIC 88 + JETSTAR 88 + CUTLASS + F-85 + VISTA-CRUISER + 4-4-2
YOUR OLDSMOBILE QUALITY DEALER TODAY!