FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1965 By JOHN K. CLARK Davidsonian Sports Writer

TOURNEY NOTES... The Wildcats rolling on... West Virginia building its shaky hopes... George Washington giving 100% effort 100% of the
time... VPI crushing pathetic Richmond... William and Mary upsetting Citadel... Last year’s finalists being eliminated in the first round... The
Coliseum crowds... the boisterous VPI fans... the well-stacked West Virginia cheerleaders... the kids getting autographs from their heroes... Joe Kruzewski
choking back tears as VMI falls behind and the trainer tells him that he can’t help... coaches throwing out optimism...
the excitement in the air of the big games that finally count... The losers getting their consolation prizes, but not
feeling very consoled... the futility of the looks on the players who finally realize that they are about to lose
and the season is over... the excitement of the winners, which for most will turn to disappointment by Saturday night.
Few sports events provide the interest and excitement of championship tourneys. They're great fun. But, as Charlotte News sports editor
Ronald Green said yesterday, “It's still a poor way to choose a champion.”

* * *

Said West Virginia coach George King yesterday after topping GW, “We will beat Davidson and we will win the tournament.”
He will be eating those words by the time this paper is out. Davidson should edge by West Virginia tonight,
VPI will top William and Mary decisively, and then the ‘Cats will crush the Gobblers in the finals. Bob King,
Tech’s 6-11 beanpole sophomore, was great against Richmond, but he’s not strong enough to match the ’Cats’ big men. Hetzel
will eat him up. Richmond’s 24.2% field goal shooting in the second half of their game against VPI was the
most pitiful I've ever seen a college team shoot. A good P.E. team could have beaten them last night. Joe
Kruzewski is one hell of a ball player. He averaged 18.6 points a game this season and always gave 100%.
He was the spirit of the VMI team. Our win was decisive enough to prove that we would have won
anyway, but I wish he hadn’t been hurt so that we could have had the satisfaction of beating them at
full strength.

Some system of seeding in the NCAA Regionals should be worked out. Something is wrong somewhere when teams ranked third,
fourth, fifth, and sixth in the nation end up in one bracket, whereas Duke faces virtually no competition in the
other bracket. Davidson must whip fourth-ranked Providence and third-ranked St. Joe in order to just get to the Eastern finals.
Duke, or whoever the ACC champ is, has to beat the winner of the game between Penn State and the
Ivy League champion in order to get there.

Three Southern Conference schools fielded soccer teams last fall, and Davidson's win over Furman was the only contest between league
teams, thus making Davidson's booters the unofficial conference champions. So just for the record:

Southern Conference Soccer Standings
Davidson 1 0 1.000
West Virginia 0 0 .000
Furman 0 1 .000

Actually, soccer coach Harry Fogleman is trying to arrange a round-robin tournament with these teams and East Carolina, if the
Pirates field a team next year, in order to determine an official championship.

TEAGUE DRIVES ON KEYDETS
“Little General” Guides ‘Cats’ Rout of Soldiers
Sigs Sweep Last 3, Davidson Clobbers Keydets 86-73
Face Streaking W. Va. In Tonight’s Semifinals
By SAM BOYTE Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson drove Virginia Military Institute from the Southern Conference Tournament 86-73 last night in the first round at the Charlotte
Coliseum, as All-American Fred Hetzel led nationally sixth-ranked Davidson’s scoring with 31 points as well as grabbed a game-high 14
rebounds. Dick Snyder was close behind with 22 points. He also had the tough fate of guarding VMI's representative on
the All-Conference squad and top scorer (20 points per game), Charlie Schmaiz. Snyder held him to 10 points. Throughout the
game Davidson was successful in moving the ball under the basket to make the close shot, resulting in an excellent
field goal percentage. Snyder provided a constant outside threat with his long set-shot jumper. Barry Teague, who scored two points
for the afternoon, kept his reputation as the “brains of the Davidson basketball team” by his skillful floor guidance of
the ‘Cats. Don Davidson scored all of his 12 points in the first half as he sat out part of
the second.

Finish With 12-0 Mark
The powerful Kappa Sigs continued their domination of the IMAC basketball games this week to close out their third straight
undefeated season with a perfect 12-0 record. Famous for their slow starts and strong finishes, they downed the Pikas 68-34,
the SAL's 56-45, and the Independents 65-47. Raymond Garrison and Buddy Dubose, by far the finest guard combination in the
league, led the sweep with lightning-fast breaks and dead-eye jump shooting. The front line, averaging 6 feet 4 inches and
composed of Tommy Reams, Pete Ort, and Bill Crane, scored consistently and garnered most of the rebounds. Other valuable big
men this season for the talent-laden Sigs were Tucker Laxson and Stu Burness, who were drafted into uniform for the
conference tournament.

Hetzel Is A-A Again; Snyder Makes All-SC
By NEVILLE PATTERSON Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's 6-8 center Fred Hetzel was named to the coaches of the National Basketball Association (NBA) announced their six-man All-America
team late last week. On the basis of two votes for first, one vote for second, the nine coaches of
the NBA gave Bill Bradley of Princeton 9 unanimous choices with 18 votes. Michigan's Cazzie Russell polled 17 votes and
Hetzel was third with 16. Miami's left-handed Rick Barry got 14 and Gail Goodrich of UCLA and Dave Stallworth of
Wichita had 13 each. The United Press International team, also with a six-man squad, came out Wednesday. Utah State’s late
Wayne Estes was chosen as the first posthumous AA selection as 210 basketball experts across the country were polled as
to their choice of the nation’s top five players. Russell was named on 85 percent of the ballots. Bradley got
82 percent, Barry 80 percent, Goodrich 74 percent, and Hetzel and Estes both had 68 percent. Dick Snyder was given
honorable mention in the UPI selection, as a result of polling three votes or better. “I'm really thrilled,” said Hetzel,
upon hearing of the UPI results, “Making All-America has always been my dream. It's wonderful to have it become a
reality. I certainly couldn't have done it without the help of the coaches and the other players. I just hope
I can live up to it in the Tournament.”

The Southern Conference announced their All-Conference team Monday night, as Hetzel was named to the team for the third straight
year.Total of 984 votes, Snyder received 311 votes, Charlie Schmaus of VMI had 286, Mickey McDade of VPI got 204,
and Tom Tenwiech of Richmond had 244. Wildcats Don Davidson and Barry Teague were both picked to the second team
All-South: ern. Davidson polled 172 votes and Teague got 121.

Piltns past the FY Ragan Staff, the critical Phi Theta Sigma, Pioneer, the Pika Jues, a close one to the
KKA, Ann Arbor, TW, and Grey Wis rash. Why 14 led the KA attack.

IMAC STANDINGS
Kappa Sigs 12-0
The A's lost to the Independents by a score of 54-50. Jim Fuller and Dave Jennings had 52 points each
for the Indys.
Sigma Chis 0-3
Geoff Kirkland with 29 and Pat Hubbard with 21 sparked the ATO's to a 75-55 rout of the Pleas.
The Sigma Chis crushed Sigma Nu 71-39. Basil Hicks had 23 points and Joel Williamson 44 for the Monks.
SAE's 2-7
Betas 1-3
SPE's 0-8

There are still some games left to be played and the IMAC will meet Monday night to reschedule the matches.
They will also decide on what to do about the call.

With VMI last Saturday, Coach Dwight Shoe had special words of praise for Davidson's 400-yard medley relay team: "Our medley
team, composed of Jim Downey on the backstroke, Lloyd Davidson on the breaststroke, Jim Stokes on the butterfly, and John
Helm on the freestyle, swam a 4:07.90, more than 8 seconds better than the school record. But since Davidson did
not win the event, the time does not go down as a school record. Even so, our boys really swam
well."

"We did very well in our win over Roanoke Tuesday," continued Shoe. "We won that meet by a 4:18.2 margin.
Jim Stokes' 2:17.8 butterfly time set a new pool record for Roanoke College by more than half a second."

John Prosser played a really great game for them," commented Davidson coach Lefty Driesell. "We put three different men on
him but we couldn't find anything to stop him."

Second high scorer for VMI with 18 points was Tobin Porter, who replaced Joe Kuszewski (averaging 14.8 points per game)
when the team captain left the game with an injured knee with less than one minute elapsed. Porter's foul shot
for the final point of the game gave the Wildcats a 24-23 lead. Successive baskets by Maroon and Hetzel gave
Davidson a 31-29 lead. VMI tied the game at 38 on a basket by Porter and went ahead 40-39 on
a free throw by Slums. Hetzel headed the Keydets with a free throw that made the score 50-49. Don Davidson
hit a jumper and left his defender out in the cold on one of his patented twisting layups to set
the mark at 54-50. Although Butler tied the score at 58-58 for the Keydets, Davidson never again lost the lead.
Snyder sparked a 16-5 rally that put the 'Cats ahead by 74-64. A free throw by Hetzel with about eight
minutes remaining gave Davidson its largest spread at 87-61.

Throughout the game, VMI was most successful when it slowed the pace and waited for an open shot. This tactic
resulted in some defensive changes for Davidson. "We did switch into a zone several times when they were holding the
ball," said Driesell. "It seemed to be more effective than man-to-man."

Tonight Davidson faces West Virginia, who set a Coliseum field goal percentage record of 61% in defeating George Washington 101-81
in the game preceding the Davidson-VMI game. "We're going to win the tournament," vowed West Virginia coach George King. Driesell
admitted, "West Virginia may be the toughest team in the tournament. They (the Wildcats) realize that they are going to
have to play a good ball game to beat West Virginia."

"We're glad to be there. We're looking forward to this game."

Other tournament action saw VPI crush Richmond 93-68 and sixth-seeded William and Mary edge out third-rated Citadel 68-60 in the
opening rounds. Davidson entered the tournament with a perfect 14-0 conference record after defeating a stalling Citadel team 62-41 last
Saturday night. At the half, the score was 20-14.

(Photo By Thel)

over Georgia last Saturday and losing to N.C. State 13-17 in Raleigh Wednesday.

JIM GREY CONGRATULATES JIM STOKES
New Butterfly Record Holder

Wednesday the tankmen took on VPI in an easy meet which the Wildcats took by a tally of 50-30. In
the final event, the 400-yard medley relay, the Wildcats jumped to an early lead over Georgia and held on to
break the pool record. Buffington secured his third pin in six wins in the 125 division to remain undefeated for
the season. In the 130-pound class, Mike Bisard drew first blood with a takedown in the first period and held
his lead to gain a 7-6 decision over the Bulldogs' Gidlewski. In the 137-pound class, sophomore Martin Miller broke a
2-2 deadlock by pinning his opponent with 1:17 remaining in the event. The Bulldogs put their first points on the
board as Bill Ruttle decisioned Jesse Sims 4-2 in the 147 division. The match score then stood 13-3 in favor
of the Wildcats.

Davidson lost decisions in the next two weight divisions. The Bulldogs' Robert Ferp defeated Duff Armfield in the 157 event
7-4. Commented Shoe, "The VPI team was outstanding in the butterfly and the medley relay events; they swam the 400-yard
medley relay in 4:00.2, an excellent time."

Randy Hughes, John Alexander, John Helm, and Mitch Polligant, who, by the way, is probably one of the top divers
in the conference, should also do well.

Eric Nichols was declared the winner in the 177 class by default, while Terry O'Hair was downed by Whit Wheeler
13-2 in the 167-pound division. The fortunes changed Wednesday evening, however, as they took on the grapplers from State. In
typical fashion, Ruffin and Mike Bisard got the match off to a good start. Buffington scored his second pin of
the week in the 124-pound class, and Bisard tied up his opponent to gain a 9-0 decision. The tide then
changed as Martin Miller twice lost a lead to drop the 137 event to the Wolfpack’s Tom Page 10-7. Jesse
Sims and Duff Armfield both lost close decisions in their events, Sims by a score of 6-4, and Armfield by
a 9-4 tally. Eric Nichols then pinned his man to give the Cats an advantage. The Wolfpack captured the match
in the last two events, however, as Mike Brouby pinned Terry O'Hair and Bobby Howard lost a 7-6 decision to
Fred Wyland to give State a 17-16 victory.
