LIGHTING SYSTEM OPPOSED BY STUDENTS (See Page Two) VOL. LIV. Ch e Hauidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1965 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES ANSWER QUESTIONS (See Page Six) NUMBER TWENTY

Fraternity Committee Report Urges Eating Clubs, Sophomore Affiliation Changes Would Limit Sphere Of Fraternities

(Paul Goodman Takes 'Liberal View Of Sex')
By TED GLUSMAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

He wore a sloppy blue sweater, sported a collegiate pipe, and his hair was right out of a “before” ad for spray net. This was Paul Goodman, poet, playwright, novelist, “friend of students,” and author of numerous books, with such interesting titles as Compulsory Miseducation and Growing Up Absurd. He has a PhD in Humanities and at present is with the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington. His topic Wednesday night was “A Liberal View of Sex,” but the discussion proved to be only a preview, since sex was not discussed all evening. Goodman did air many liberal views on other topics, however. He began by discussing his involvement in the recent “Free Speech” movement at Berkeley, including his views on student government. He felt that student government in this country is almost powerless. He did cite one instance in which students, by striking, were able to oust an undesirable president. He commented, however, that “these things are much better when they have faculty support!” On the fraternity question, Goodman stated that he saw no sense to national fraternities, but was in favor of cooperative student living arrangements.

Council, Meschan Vie For President’s Job

Bill Council and David Meschan, both juniors, are candidates for president of the Student Body in the annual elections beginning Monday. The two were the only students who filed for the candidacy before the Tuesday midnight deadline. Four persons filed for the office last year. Council, a member of Phi Delta Theta, is an English major and is presently second vice president of the Student Body. From Washington, D. C., he is a member of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee, Student-Faculty Coordinating Committee and the tennis team. Council is a former Dana Scholar. Meschan is a history major from Winston-Salem. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi and the tennis team, and a former member of the varsity debate team and the Freshman Council. Fred Sackett, chairman of the Elections Committee, said that polls would be located at the Post Office and in the Lobby of Chambers. Polls will be open each voting day from 8:30 a.m. until 1 p.m. and from 1:30 until 2:45 p.m. No write-in votes are permitted. Results will be posted by 4 p.m. of each day's balloting, stated Sackett, on four different bulletin boards: Chambers lobby, outside the north wing of Chambers, in the Union lobby and the library.

Candidates for other offices are as follows:

STUDENT BODY
Vice-president
John Fagg, John Gresham, Chuck Matthews.

Secretary-treasurer
Ben Cannon, Tom Irons, Harry McMullan, Bo Perry, Frank Shepard, Bill Watson, Bruce Weihe.

HONOR COURT
Rising Seniors
Thom Blair, Joe Davis, Lewis Foss, Bill Garrard, Arnie Goodstein, Fred Lewis, Robert Whitton.

Rising Juniors
Hobs Allan, Alan Cooper, Butch Cox, Chris Hawk, Joe Jelks, Jerry Kriebel, Ed McFarland, Wayne Rhodes, Barry St. Clair, Jim Shackelford, Brooks Sheldon, Sterling Southern, Charles Taylor, Peter Van Dorsten, Alva Whitehead.

Rising Sophomores
Bill Barnette, Gresh Bayne, Eddie Beach, Bobby Burch, Chuck Byrd, Tom Caldwell, Price Cameron, Heyward Carter, David Clark, Steve Couch, Holmes Eleazer, Woody Faulk, Bob Finlayson, Mike Fitzpatrick, John Giles, Walter Green, Sam Hatcher, Bob Howard, Ronnie Hunt, Rob Johnson, Tom Kirtley, Ray Kytle, Dick Lindsey, John Miller, Paul Monk, Mike Mooty, Buddy Newsom, Charles Orr, Frank Powell, Bob Pryor, Jim Robinson, Bill Seigler, Carson Thompson, David Westfall, Henry Wilmer.

“To have to eat with people you don’t like is bad for your digestion,” he quipped. But all this was really preliminary to Goodman's discussion of “Sexual Ethics,” which came in Thursday chapel and the customary coffee afterwards. Goodman, who has been a contributor to the Playboy “Forum,” launched his discussion with the categorical statement, “Moral rules are not the way to teach sexual responsibility.” In fact, he accepts only three rules for sexual behavior: “Don't exploit another person's feelings, see to it that you don’t have an unwanted child, and make sure that you're being true to yourself in your sexual relationships.” He proceeded to enlarge each of these basic rules, opining that one should avoid what he terms the “Playboy style relationship” and stick to sexual involvement only where there is also emotional involvement. On the subject of unwanted children Goodman commented, “If my daughter came home pregnant from college, I would be furious... because we'd have to baby-sit!” Goodman’s final warning was against sexual relationships as “conquests” for boys and “popularity-builders” for girls. Goodman then identified himself with Thomas Aquinas’ three reasons for sexual behavior: “natural instincts, getting to know another person, and pleasure.” Pleasure, as Goodman defined it, involves commitment, personal engagement. Stated Goodman, “If an activity is pleasurable, by and large it is healthy.”

An Editorial

It is realized that the recommended action will have a considerable impact on the fraternities. But the fraternities must of course give way to the College in any conflict of interest between them. If a move is to be made for the good of the College, the fraternities must be prepared to accommodate themselves to it, even though the readjustment be painful. They, as well as all other entities, must bow to the paramount right and duty of the College to pursue the broadest objectives of a liberal arts education.

Report of the Committee on Review of Fraternity Questions, Williams College, May 5, 1962

In Davidson's fraternities the members have for years found an adequate social program. And within his fraternity’s membership, the fraternity man usually has found that small group which included his closest friends. Further, the fraternities have helped their freshman members adjust to college life in general, and to Davidson in particular. By emphasizing grade-point averages, the fraternities have succeeded in bolstering their members academically. Consequently, we have no difficulty understanding those who say that Davidson’s approach of eat-in-the-houses-but-live-in-the-dorms has led to the overall “model fraternity system.” Indeed, the present system with only minor modifications would evoke the same comment from us. But our concern is not with the relative standing of fraternity systems. Rather our attention is fixed on the impact of fraternities and the fraternity system on the life of the Davidson student, the essence of Davidson College. Alongside the many advantages of Davidson's fraternity system, we find inextricably involved in the system basic wrongs, wrongs originating for the most part in the exclusive nature (See editorial column, page two)

Harrington, Todd Run For Editorship

A philosophy major from Winston-Salem, Harrington served this year as managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Last year he served as editor of The Epsilonian for Pi Kappa Phi; his freshman year he belonged to the freshman debate team and was a feature writer for THE DAVIDSONIAN. Harrington has also been head football manager for two years and is a member of the “D” Club.

THE DAVIDSONIAN can and should more effectively stimulate comment on campus and national issues and assert student opinion. If elected editor I will do my best to make this newspaper a more effective voice of the Davidson student body. Student opinion, properly organized and presented, can be made into an effective political and intellectual force at Davidson College. To achieve this end and to increase its news coverage of campus events, THE DAVIDSONIAN needs several changes: First, comprehensive coverage of all campus news events and appropriate editorial action requires that THE DAVIDSONIAN be gotten out on time, at a regular time each week. I would reorganize the newspaper staff and make certain procedural changes to ensure that a 6-page (budget permitting) THE DAVIDSONIAN is delivered toEach student by midnight Friday. Second, an efficient voice of student action and opinion must establish closer contacts with the Student Council, IFC, and College Union so that student activity and thought might be coordinated to their most effective use. In addition to improved news coverage of these organizations, I would allot space regularly to their presidents that they might explain their activities directly to the students through the newspaper. The independent editorial comment and news coverage would not be impaired by these changes. I think that my three years on newspaper staffs qualifies me for the editorship and shows that the changes are practical. I favor expansion of the organized social program of the entire student body without unfair penalties being placed on the fraternity system. I believe that any changes in the fraternity system should be first approved by a majority of students—and I will oppose with every means possible any changes in the fraternity system that are not first approved in a referendum of the entire student body. Finally, if I am elected editor, I will do everything within my power to make THE DAVIDSONIAN, this “editorial voice of the Davidson student body,” the outstanding college newspaper.

Todd, a history major from Gastonia considering a career in journalism, has been managing editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN for the past year. During his freshman year, Todd won the D. G. Martin Award for Outstanding Reporting. He recently received a Wall Street Journal scholarship, which will give him a summer’s internship with a daily newspaper. His sophomore year Todd served as DAVIDSONIAN News Editor.

MICHAEL HARRINGTON

During the past few years, THE DAVIDSONIAN has grown from a four-page campus newsletter to a weekly publication of which nearly every Davidson student is justifiably proud. This year's increase to a six-page edition has climaxed the move to respectable journalism on campus. I would continue this six-page weekly format; however, some problems which have arisen need to be eliminated:

—Late deliveries are plainly an inconvenience to all concerned. Furthermore, a day-old newspaper loses much of its newsworthiness. Deliveries in the dorms should be restored to a reasonable Friday night hour.

—Perhaps the weakest part of this year's newspaper has been the extra editorial page. I would substitute a feature page, along the lines of a Sunday “feature front” in many daily newspapers, to alternate every other week with the second sports page.

—Many extra hours are spent correcting the articles of reporters who know only the beginning points about journalism. This can be avoided and the readability of the newspaper improved by simply making an effort to help these writers improve their journalistic style.

There should be a more equitable arrangement among campus publications concerning the use of the Union darkroom. A more satisfactory pooling of equipment and supplies must be made for the sake of time and expenses. Limited space prohibits an extensive discussion of future editorial policy; however, concerning fraternity evaluation, although an Independent, I can see a definite value in the small-group friendship and social life that fraternities on campus provide for their members. I submit three years of experience on THE DAVIDSONIAN staff (as reporter, copy reader, News Editor, and Managing Editor) and an upcoming summer’s experience as a professional reporter as indicative of my willingness to publish and support even more improved DAVIDSONIAN.

Voting against the proposal were Dr. John Kelton, associate professor of psychology; Edward Haselden, president of Beta Theta Pi; and Art Ross. (Continued on Page Six)

Will Terry, Chaplain, was absent. Bill Council was present but abstained.

Advocates Restraint

TWO minority reports, differing with the Fraternity Evaluation Committee report, were issued tonight. A report signed by Dr. John Kelton, Will Terry, Art Ross, and Bill Council would provide not only for continuation of the present fraternities but also for the establishment of competitive eating clubs. The proposal also favors sophomore rush and elimination of discriminatory clauses from fraternity charters. The second minority report, submitted by Edward Haselden, advocates preservation of the present fraternity system with modifications. There would be no summer rush, expanded Union facilities, and an enlarged Lingle Manor program.

The first report states its general agreement with the immediate recommendations of the committee's majority but questions the committee's “proposed solution,” offering its own suggested solution. The first report points out the shortcomings in the present system: fraternity domination of campus life as well as certain detrimental characteristics of the fraternity system, such as restrictive clauses in charters. Students would eat together for their freshman year and remain unaffiliated with a fraternity. They would have a separate social and intramural program. Envisioned as an addition to the present social alternatives is a system of competitive eating clubs. Freshmen with a 1.0 average first semester would be able to join an eating club or Lingle Manor.

Haselden, who advocates maintenance of the present fraternity system with minor modifications, explains, “As a minority, I agree that there are certain things wrong with the fraternity system, but I do not agree that the fraternities are the entire cause of the problems that exist on this campus, nor are they to share the full blame.” Therefore, the fraternity student, through his proposals, seeks to “lessen the influence of the fraternity system and make college life at Davidson more beneficial without drastic change.”

Members’ Reactions Vary On Final Report

By BOB HOWARD and FRANK FLEMING
Davidsonian Staff Writers

Reactions of individual members of the Evaluation Committee to the committee’s report issued tonight reflect the diversity of opinion within the group. The committee report was supported by Pat Fisher, Rufus Hallmark, Robert G. Jones, assistant dean of students and fraternity liaison officer, Rick von Unwerth, Paxton Wray, and Bob Young, assistant director of admissions and former fraternity liaison officer. Besides a “minority report of one” by Ed Haselden, there is another minority report by Dr. John Kelton, Chaplain Will Terry, Art Ross, and Bill Council. Chairman and ex officio member Will Jackson did not vote but favors this last report.

Fisher commented, “I favor our report 100 percent, especially since the minority report is just a ‘stab in the dark’ that could not be put into operation. Although it could take 20 years or just one year to enact the proposals, I would still like to see more equality and less dichotomy.” Not wishing to be labeled “anti-fraternity,” Hallmark explained, “Several members of the committee feel that fraternities are inadequate because of their blackball method of selection and the resulting institutionalizing of superficial criteria of social acceptability. This and discriminatory clauses (Continued on Page Six)