FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN Rock'n Roll, Lettermen Trio To Star In Spring Frolics Gala Friday Night Concert May Be Held At Lake By DON CARROLL Davidsonian Staff Writer Spring Frolics, April 23-24, according to former IFC President Rick von Unwerth, will be aimed at satisfying the rock 'n’ roll cravings of the Davidson student body. A dance weekend innovation tentatively schedules the Friday night concert at the lake campus, provided that this plan is approved at the meeting of the IFC Monday night. Pending a faculty decision on the IFC proposals which would release the IFC of its dance weekend chores, the IFC has gone all out for this year's Spring Frolics. According to acting IFC President Fred Sackett: “I think Spring Frolics represents the culmination of the variety the IFC has tried to offer the entire year. It should be just great.” Dionne Warwick and Mary Wells will perform Friday night, and Fred Smoot and The Lettermen will be in Chambers Auditorium on Saturday night. Complementing the gala spring affair are a baseball game with Georgia Southern and a tennis match with Oglethorpe on Friday. The Davidson Relays and the North Carolina solo and small ensemble contest on Saturday will probably not steal the attention of too many potential Frolicers. The weekend entertainment planned by Rick von Unwerth will again feature the dual three-hour type concert tried successfully for the first time at last year's Spring Frolics.

ELECTION RESULTS STUDENT COUNCIL Student Body Officers President - Bill Council First Vice President - John Gresham Second Vice President - Chuck Mathews Secretary Treasurer - Ben Cannon SENIOR CLASS President - Billy Clark Vice President - Lee Fanning Secretary Treasurer - David Meschan Representatives - Bob Bryan, Randy McKnight Freshman Advisor - David Powell JUNIOR CLASS President - Paul Marion Representative - John Fagg Representative - Jim Timmons SOPHOMORE CLASS President - John Thomas Representative - Julian Prosser HONOR COURT Senior Representatives Chairman - Jim Stokes Vice Chairman - Britt Snider

DIONNE WARWICK, unheard of two years ago, has made the quick jump to fame via a succession of hit records. Her next big step is naturally Davidson. Born into a family of gospel singers, Miss Warwick grew up playing the piano and singing in the church choir. The National Association of Record Merchandisers voted Miss Warwick the “Most Popular Female Vocalist in 1964”.

MARY WELLS, headlined “Miss Hitmaker, U.S.A.”, is not only a singer, but also writes some of her own material. In her last album, “Mary Wells’ Greatest Hits”, Miss Wells sings a unique cross-section of tunes popular with today’s students. Her latest hits include: “Laughing Boy,” “My Guy,” and “The One Who Really Loves You”.

THE LETTERMEN come to Davidson as entertainers, as well as singers for which they are nationally known. The group consists of Tony Butala, Jim Pike, and Bob Engemann, all of whom have the same range, which allows them full interchange of parts and gives each an opportunity for solos. As entertainers, they throw in comedy and vocal impressions and play instruments. They have appeared on television with Ed Sullivan, Red Skelton, and Jack Benny. They have performed at over 350 colleges throughout the country and were at Davidson two years ago. The Lettermen offer their unique blend of voices on the standard ballads in combination with today’s instrumentation. They sing folk songs, old songs, new songs, but always in their own style.

FRED SMOOT, who made a twenty-minute appearance at last year’s Spring Frolics, will return to lace an otherwise completely rock ‘n’ roll weekend with his satirical, self-styled brand of comedy. Smoot, blond and baby-faced, works with vocal gimmicks, sounds, and a lot of pantomime. His act is described by Variety as “well written and has good pacing, mixed with husky, strong singing in a talk-song style.” Smoot’s routines range from his famous recreation of Paul Revere’s memorable ride through the New England countryside to a burlesque of a mythical opera. He promises to bring a pleasing variety to Frolics, indicated by his success at the function last year.

Fund Established For Pika Juniors A memorial fund has been established for John Triplett, Preston St. Clair, and Mike Bell, the only Davidson students to be involved in fatal automobile accidents in recent years. All three were members of the Class of '66 and Pi Kappa Alpha. Triplett was killed in May 1964, and Bell and St. Clair were killed in October 1964. The memorial fund, established by Pi Kappa Alpha, will divide all contributions among three memorials. Dr. K. E. St. Clair has established a scholarship fund at Davidson, to which contributions will be made. Bell's minister has established a memorial fund at Lexington's First Lutheran Church to which the Davidson fund will contribute. A memorial to Triplett, in the Grifton Methodist Church, will likewise receive a third of the contributions.

Radio-TV Fellowship Named For Scruggs A fellowship in communications has been established in memory of William M. Scruggs, ‘49, director of sales at WSOC-TV in Charlotte, until his death last winter. President D. Grier Martin, in announcing the fellowship, stated, “The fellowship, to be an annual award to a student of outstanding interest and promise in the communications field, was made possible by individuals and firms in the Charlotte community who knew and admired Bill Scruggs. The fellowship, we trust, will serve to inspire other young men to look to endeavor in the communications field as a selected area for service. Certainly, the young men can find no more fitting example of service and achievement than the man whose name is on this fellowship.” The fellowship will be supported by the income from a permanent William M. Scruggs Endowment Fund administered by the college trustees and administrative staff, and will be awarded each year to a student who is qualified to serve while an undergraduate as a part-time intern in the field of communications, especially in radio and television. Part of the planned program will hopefully lead the Scruggs Fellow into new and creative uses of the communications media in the areas of college education, adult education, and the arts. The Scruggs Fellow will be chosen by a committee of the college faculty and staff, appointed by Martin, and will receive recognition, guidance, and encouragement from the college, in addition to the stipend.

MACCORMAC RETURNING Course Changes Made Dr. Earl R. MacCormac will instruct two new philosophy courses, to be offered next year, when he returns from his leave of absence. In a DAVIDSONIAN interview, Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, chairman of the Curriculum Committee, stated: “I have long felt

Registrar Sets Dates For Summer Sessions The 1965 Davidson College Summer Session will open its first term with registration Wednesday, June 16. Classes will begin on the following day. The second term of theSession begins July 12, and the third term on August 4. All courses offered in the summer session will be the same ones available to regular Davidson students in the fall and spring semesters. There are no special courses planned for the summer session this year. Tuition, room, board, laundry, and fees for each of the first two of the three three-week terms will amount to $158.50 for a three-hour course and $188.50 for a four-hour course. For the third term, the cost will be $141.00 for a three-hour course. No four-hour courses are offered during the last term. The maximum load permitted for the summer session is three hours per term in a non-science course and four hours per term in a science course.

Commented Registrar F. W. Hengeveld, “Our summer school students are here mainly to make up work in their courses. Others attend either to supplement their regular studies or in order to graduate in three years.” Digressing slightly to comment on the tri-semester system employed at some colleges, he pointed out, “I really don't see the great advantage in this tri-semester system. Graduate schools generally prefer students with four years of college, and besides, there is just too much else for young people to do in the summer. A student can graduate from Davidson in three years, but the response to our summer school has shown no trend at all toward this.”

The summer session is open to students enrolled at Davidson or other colleges, recent high school graduates, teachers, and adults in the vicinity. The summer session catalog and further information concerning the session may be obtained at the registrar's office.

Vick Makes Changes In S’nP Format
By BOB TRAVERS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Believing that “Davidson College can and must produce a magazine of high quality,” Charles Vick, newly elected editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks, and his staff have begun a vast revamping of the traditional campus magazine. In the new S‘nP, they hope to publish short stories, essays, poetry, and features which will include profiles, biographical sketches, and reviews of contemporary authors and forum articles on pertinent issues. Humor will be somewhat de-emphasized in the new magazines, but certainly not ignored. A literary and humor publication—as the original was—is the goal of the staff. “The humor, if it is to be printed, must be of a higher sort from that seen in the past,” Vick declared. “Categorically, vulgarity will not be allowed. There will be no stolen humor. There is no reason for it. If it is a Davidson magazine, it must be Davidson material.”

“A good number of students and faculty is already showing genuine, active interest in the new concept,” he said. Dr. Winkler and Herb Jackson have contributed poetry, and Henry Wilmer and John Pruett have contributed short stories. “Having changed the format, we are now in the process of developing the organization necessary to effect the new concept. There has never really been any effective concern about this before,” Vick explained.

A staff composed of rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors has been assembled. Bob Holladay, John Compton, Ben Lahey, and Louis Hill comprise the art committee of the staff, while Harry Carr, Bill Puckett, Woody Coleman, and Arnie Goodstein make up the business committee. The members of the editorial staff are Bob Dugger, Sid Farrar, Bob Cameron, Paul Monk, Ted Glusman, and Phil Jones. “The staff is going to edit this magazine rather than write it,” stressed Vick, although staff members will contribute to the magazine just as other students.

An Advisory Board for the magazine has also been formed. Its members represent the faculty and administration, the literary societies, Sigma Upsilon (honorary creative writing fraternity), the fraternity group, and the Independents. “This board has no relation to any previous boards, and is chiefly to advise the editors,” Vick explained.

In a statement distributed to members of the faculty and administration, the editors said, “We want to stimulate and elevate the campus literary interest and improve the standing of Davidson in the field of college publications.” “Actually,” Vick said, “the main thing is we just want a magazine we can read twenty years from now.” He was quick to point out that “Graduate schools keep track of college activities, and so the magazine will actually be aiding the students themselves more than anything.”

The staff has decided that there will be no regular spring issue of Scripts ‘n Pranks this year, but there will be a publication of some kind. Vick explained that the staff is spending its time “gathering material, talking with printers, and organizing the staff so it can do the job.” The staff has made plans and is now working to put them into effect, but Vick emphasized that any success is going to depend on the interest of the people in the college community. He said, “We must have a steady flow of contributions in order to maintain publication over a sustained period of expansion.”

Johnston pointed out that this course was especially needed in view of the large number of pre-med students at Davidson. In addition, it would broaden the department and, hopefully, he thought, make a philosophy major more attractive to students. Officially designated Philosophy 53, philosophy of science will investigate the nature of scientific explanations and theories, study their methodology and terminology, and particularly emphasize contemporary views of scientific explanation.

MacCormac will also instruct Symbolic Logic, Philosophy 36, which will be a study of the development of propositional calculus and offer a brief introduction to axiomatic set theory. In further changes stated by a report of the Curriculum Committee, Bible 24, Apocalyptic Literature, will be discontinued, and Bible 51, American Religious Thought, will be offered next year. This new course, to be taught by Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes, will present a study of the movements, men, and ideas that have contributed to the formation of American religious tradition.

The only other new course next year will be Mathematics 43, 44, Numerical Analysis and Computers I and II. This course will give an introduction to computers and provide an opportunity for study with the IBM 1620. It will deal primarily with problems of numerical analysis as they are related to the computer.

SKELETON ACADEMIC SCHEDULE 1965 - 66
September 15—Wednesday. Classes begin.
October 23—Saturday. Homecoming.
November 24—Wednesday 4:30. Thanksgiving holidays begin.
November 29—Monday 8:20. Thanksgiving holidays end.
December 18—Saturday, 12:10. Christmas holidays begin.
January 3—Monday, 8:20 A.M. Christmas holidays end.
January 17—Monday. Tues.-Thurs.-Sat. classes meet.
January 18—Tuesday. Pre-exam study day.
January 19—Wednesday. First semester exams begin.
January 27—Thursday. First semester exams end.
January 28, 29, 30—Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Mid-term break.
January 31—Monday. Second semester begins.
March 26—Saturday, 12:10. Spring holidays.
April 4—Monday, 8:20. Spring holidays end.
May 24—Tuesday. Pre-exam study day.
May 25—Wednesday. Spring semester exams begin.
June 2—Thursday. Spring semester exams end.
June 4-5—Commencement exercises.

Both semesters there are 46 MWF classes. By swapping off January 17 as TTS, both semesters have 45 TTS classes.