THE TEMPTATIONS TO FOLLOW FOUR PREPS (See Page Three) VOL. LV J Oh er Havidsonian The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1965 ‘CATS LOOKING FOR NUMBER FIVE (See Page Four) NUMBER NINE By LINDSAY DAVIS Davidsonian Staff Writer Jan. 15, 1965—The Davidson College faculty voted to take a stand on the most controversial problems facing North Carolina for many years, perhaps ever. Its stand was to actively protest against the infamous Speaker Ban Law of 1963. Soon after the passing of the law, the local chapter of the American Association of University Professors, headed by Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, appointed a representative to talk with legislators about the details of the passage of the law and to get a copy of the bill. In April, 1964, the chapter was ready to appoint a committee to draw up a formal statement of opposition to the law. Advised by certain political leaders to withhold the statement until after the elections, the committee waited until January, 1965. From then on the faculty as a whole worked closely with parties in Raleigh for the repeal, writing letters, publishing articles and making talks to civic organizations urging support for their stand. The committee, chaired by Dr. R. E. Gift, consists of William L. Bondurant, director of alumni activities, and Profs. Louise Nelson, Locke White and W. B. Patterson. These five, along with Ostwalt, drew up the statement which the faculty voted to release in mid-January, 1965. Then they began to work on the current project, an article for the AAUP’s publication, which is concerned with academic freedom of expression. When asked about the content of the article, Patterson divided it into five general sections: 1) the political history of the bill; 2) an analysis from the constitutional viewpoint; 3) the relationship of the law to academic freedom; 4) a discussion of the law and national security; and 5) the effect on the reputation, academic standing and campus life. “This would include,” added Patterson, “specific cases of refusals of learned societies to meet on campus, plus the failure to obtain certain pertinent speakers.” The article itself is actually “a result of a coalition with the University of North Carolina, mostly Chapel Hill, but also help from N. C. State and UNC-G,” Patterson said. The drafting began eight months ago and is just now ready to be publicized. A special session of the legislature will convene soon in Raleigh to consider the recommendations of the commission of Gov. Dan K. Moore to study the law. In a nutshell, the commission recommends that the regulation of speakers on the campuses of state-supported colleges and universities be left to the trustees of the individual institutions. Trustees May Restrict Franchise Of Faculty Faculty voting on matters of college policy may be limited only to full professors and associate professors under an amendment approved by the Board of Trustees at its meeting here last month, THE DAVIDSONIAN learned this week. The measure has not become official because it must receive a second approval of the board at the next meeting of the Trustees. No announcement of the action of the Trustees was made following the meeting on Oct. 22; however, other amendments, including the elimination of the long-standing faculty oath, were explained to news media immediately after the meeting. When asked by THE DAVIDSONIAN why the action was not explained along with other details of the meeting of the board, College President D. Grier Martin stated that he overlooked the details of this amendment after the meeting. Many faculty members reacted rather strongly to news of the voting proposal this week. “The whole air of secrecy surrounding this thing is incredible,” remarked one professor. As of late yesterday afternoon, faculty members had not been officially notified of the Trustees’ proposal. At Tuesday's faculty meeting one professor reportedly inquired of Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, who was presiding in Martin's absence, as to the basis of the rumor concerning the amendment. The dean stated that he was not familiar with the details of such a proposal but would check into the matter. Early today Martin notified faculty members that he would meet with any interested professors this afternoon to discuss the matter. Court Will Answer Criticism At Open End Changes in the method of presentation of information about Honor Court trials and in the penalties for violation of the Honor System will be discussed in an Open End program next Wednesday. The program is being sponsored by the Honor Court to allow students to express their opinions on the two issues. The Related Story See Page Three Court decided to have the program in a meeting last Monday which was called to consider the present situation of the Honor System. Court Chairman Jim Stokes stated, “The two matters that have been mentioned seem to be the most vital questions to answer, so it is hoped that the Open End discussion will concern just these issues.” Stokes said that there are three possible methods of presenting information about Honor Court trials to the student body. “The present method of attempting to keep complete secrecy could be maintained. Or the transcript of a trial could be published with the reasoning which led to the Honor Court’s decision appended to it. “Or a trial open to the student body at large could be held. The Court will discuss these alternatives at the Open End,” added Stokes. The second issue to be raised is the possibility of establishing a gradation of penalties for violations of the Honor System. Concerning this question Stokes said, “The Court would like to discuss the insertion of the word ‘ordinarily’ in Article VII, Section 5 of the Student Body Constitution so that it would read, ‘Every student found guilty of violating any section of this article shall ordinarily be dismissed from the college.’” Stokes expressed his belief that “constructive discussion of these two issues at the Open End will lead to changes which will improve Davidson's Honor System.” Freshmen Plan For Parents The Freshman Council finalized its outline for the Parents’ Day program schedule last Wednesday evening and included in its plans name tags and guided tours for parents. The Council will greet and give name tags to the parents during registration beginning at 9 a.m. Members of the Council will then guide the parents around the campus in tours beginning every 15 minutes. Dan Mombrea, who is in charge of the tours, handed out booklets about Davidson at the meeting so that Council members could give a more detailed tour of the campus than all the individual students. Council President Bayard Miller will address the parents after a banquet in Chambers. His speech will concern the new outlook of the Freshman Class caused by the delayed rush of fraternities. Later in the afternoon, Craig Wilson will hold an open house planned at the ROTC Department. The Union will not serve lunch on Parents’ Day. Students are invited to the banquet whether or not their parents are coming. Free tickets must be picked up at the Union desk. Richard Levin Speaks, Uses ‘Gut Approach’ By MIKE MAY Davidsonian Feature Writer “Man's prerogative is finding the great new problems of our day,” Dr. Richard I. Levin said at chapel Tuesday. Dr. Levin was the second speaker in a series of lectures sponsored by the Economics Department. After being introduced by Dr. Louise Nelson, Dr. Levin promised to use “the gut approach” in his talk and to lend color to the subject by use of concrete examples. “Somewhere, I'm sure,” he began, “the president of Westinghouse has just come to work.” This man is primarily concerned with what the company’s 100,000 or so employees are doing. He doesn't worry about details of operation like the delivery of an order of light bulbs, but about overall corporate strategy. Dr. Levin raised the question, “How can he divorce his attention successfully from the light bulb issue with any degree of assurance that the bulbs will be delivered?” The answer is that Westinghouse uses a vast computer system to take care of a rather complex series of accounting and inventory procedures. This system works faster and better than humans could. In the future, according to the speaker, “routine operating decisions will not be made by people.” However, the demand for the man who can make strategic, creative decisions will increase. Dr. Levin next turned his attention to a hypothetical situation concerning the sales manager of the Esso Standard Oil Company. Because of the diverse possible products of crude oil, the latter faces the question, “What shall we make and sell this week?” For his salary he'd better have an answer. Here again the use of computers and advanced mathematical techniques shows what is the best use of the raw material to satisfy certain criteria. This can be done mechanically, and the need of having men to perform this type of task is fast disappearing. “The use of mature individuals to perform repetitive calculations is an enormous social waste,” Dr. Levin added. On the other hand, the study of optimization techniques is an extremely vital task. Dr. Levin concluded by outlining his view of the role of human decision makers in the cybernated business world of tomorrow. “Your greatest challenge as the business and social leaders of the future . . . will be to identify the problems of that time and solve them,” he said. Computers and other methods can make solution easier by handling the repetitive part, but none of these techniques will identify the great new problems of our day.This is man’s prerogative.” Universities be left to the discretion of the trustees of the institutions. “We are hoping,” continued Patterson, “that the law can be completely repealed. But that is not likely. What will probably happen is that the law will be amended in line with the commission's recommendations, with an agreement that the trustees will adopt a policy similar to that of the present law.” This is not complete victory, he said, but at least the selection of speakers on the campus is in the hands of the trustees and not the state legislature.

Though not a member of the AAUP, Bondurant, who holds the LLB degree, worked with the committee on the constitutionality of the Speaker Ban. Because he is not a member of the faculty, he is in a position to voice his opinion of the faculty’s stand. “Their decision,” he said, “came at a time when it was common for people who spoke out against the law to be labeled sympathizers themselves.” The faculty, however, had the courage to speak out for its convictions, Bondurant ventured.

Faculty’s Opposition To Speaker Ban Law Continuing

“For the first time,” he continued, “since I've been here—10 years—Davidson College has taken a public stand on a political problem when the college itself was not directly involved in it.” The Davidson faculty was one of the state leaders in opposing the new law which did not even affect the college. However, the faculty was and is so interested in the status of higher education in North Carolina that it felt the need to protest this affront to freedom and threat to accreditation of the state consolidated university.

Faculty Postpones Drinking Question Further Report Planned

No new action was taken and no specific proposals were made concerning the new, faculty-approved drinking rule at the faculty meeting held this Tuesday. Further discussion of the amended rule and its implication for the Social Council and athletic trips is expected at the faculty meeting in December, when the joint Faculty-Trustee Committee on Alcoholic Beverage Policy will present a further report on the controversy. Some concern has developed over the problem of maintaining control of drinking by team members on athletic trips under the new ruling. Dr. J. G. Martin, one of the faculty members of the five-man Faculty-Trustee Committee, reports that the committee will study the opinion of the coaches before the December meeting, and that it may be necessary to reconsider the committee’s original recommendations. “But for now,” Dr. Martin emphasized, “it is an entirely open question. I'm not even sure what I'm going to think after these discussions.”

“LISTEN, YOUNG LADY”

A traveling peddler, Davis Jones, played by freshman Dave Fagg, argues it out with Laurey, played by Mrs. Green, in the play Green Grow the Lilacs, which opened last night. The play, an adaptation of the musical Oklahoma!, will be presented again tonight and tomorrow at 8:15 p.m. in Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

Davidsonian Receives All-American Rating

THE DAVIDSONIAN has received an All-American rating in competition with other college newspapers for the second semester 1964-65. The rating is the highest possible. The judging, sponsored by the Associated College Press in Minneapolis, Minn., pits newspapers of similar size schools. THE DAVIDSONIAN received a total of 3,870 points from a possible total of 4,000 points. “Superior” ratings were awarded in the divisions of News Sources, Sports Coverage, and Inside News Features. The report received by the newspaper singled out its handling of the Speaker Ban Law and the fraternity issue. The competing newspapers are judged on the effectiveness with which they serve their individual schools. Each paper is judged in comparison with other college papers rather than the highest standard ideal, the report said.

Who’s Who Elects Twenty Seniors

By PRICE CAMERON Davidsonian Staff Writer

Twenty Davidson seniors have been selected by the faculty-student committee for recognition in “Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.” This annual publication includes students of note from all American schools who have demonstrated outstanding scholastic leadership in a variety of activities.

Dan Campbell, a history major from Myrtle Beach, S. C., served as director of freshman camp, and is chairman of the Social Council. A past rush chairman and IFC representative of Kappa Sigma, he was a member of the Freshman Council and was on the swimming team his sophomore year.

Billy Clark, from Charlotte, holds a National Merit Scholarship and a McConnell Scholarship for his pre-med study. President of ODK, honorary leadership fraternity, he is also a member of Phi Beta Kappa, scholarship fraternity, Phi Eta Sigma, freshman scholarship fraternity, and Kappa Sigma. A member of the Student Council and vice-president of the Conservative Club, Clark is president of the Senior Class.

Bill Council, president of the student body, is an English major from Washington, D. C. A member of ODK and of Phi Delta Theta, Council was second vice-president of the student body last year, and has been a freshman hall counselor for the past two years. The one-time Dana Scholar is presently captain of the tennis team and was first runner-up for the Southern Conference singles championship title last spring.

Pack Hindsley, a pre-med student from Beckley, W. Va., is captain of the football team. A member of the D Club and the Beaver Club, Hindsley is also Social Chairman for Phi Gamma Delta.

Andy Little, an English major from Raleigh, was first vice-president of the student body his junior year. Now captain of the cross country team and a freshman hall counselor, Little sings in the Chapel Choir and serves on the YMCA Cabinet.

Jim Martin, a history major from Bethesda, Md., is president of the Male Chorus and a member of the Lamplighters. Martin is also president of Pi Kappa Alpha, and a member of APO service fraternity.

Neill McBryde, from Durham, is the YMCA chairman of hall discussions, co-chairman of the social committee of the Union Board, and was vice president and pledge-trainer of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. McBryde, a history major, participated in the U. S. State Department Intern Program, served as collection chairman for the YMCA gift fund, and as a hall counselor. McBryde was elected to Phi Beta Kappa this fall.

Bill McGuire, a business major from Charlotte, is business manager for the Quips and Cranks and the Wildcat Handbook. McGuire is a member of Alpha Tau Omega and of the Sailing Club.

Eric Nichols, an English major from Oreland, Pa., was vice-president of the Y last year, and is on the Honor Court. A member of Phi Delta Theta and a hall counselor, Nichols is also president of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes and captain of the wrestling team.

David Powell, a history major from Little Rock, Ark., is freshman advisor, president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and head cheerleader. He served on the freshman council, was president of the junior class, and is on the Union Board. Powell is a member of ODK.

Paul Simpson, of Nashville, Tenn., has a double major in psychology and pre-med. Besides being past IFC representative from Beta Theta Pi, he is a member of APO service fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, and the College Union Board in charge of Open End discussions. He was on the Freshman Council, and won the Freshman Scholastic Award. Simpson is also a member of Phi Beta Kappa and ODK.

Murray Smith, a philosophy major from Orlando, Fla., is president of the Y and a member of Alpha Tau Omega.

Steve Smith, a business major from Camilla, Ga., plays football and is a member of Phi Delta Theta. Smith received a national award for outstanding scholarship on the football team, and was chosen for the All-Southern Conference Academic football team.

Arnie Snider, a business major from Salisbury, is editor of the Quips and Cranks. He has served as Student Council Representative his sophomore year, vice president of his junior class, and as treasurer of the YDC. Snider is a member of the Publications Board, the Business-Economics club, and of Pi Kappa Alpha.

Britt Snider, a history major from Salisbury, is editor of the Wildcat Handbook and is vice-chairman of the Honor Court. He is on the Business Staff of the annual and is a member of the Publication Board. Snider also belongs to Pi Kappa Alpha and is a hall counselor.

Dick Snyder, a business major from North Canton, Ohio, is captain of the basketball team. A member of Kappa Sigma, the Beaver Club, and the D Club, Snyder was selected outstanding freshman athlete after his first year here.

Jim Stokes, a history major from Winter Park, Fla., is chairman of the Honor Court. Past president of Alpha Tau Omega, the Freshman Council, and captain of the swimming team, he is now ROTC brigade commander. A member of ODK, Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, and Phi Eta Sigma and a former hall counselor, Stokes is the holder of a McConnell Scholarship.

Jim Terry, a premed from Peterstown, W. Va., is president of the Interfraternity Council. A member of APO, the Faculty-Fraternity Committee, D Club, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, and the Social Council, Terry also serves as IFC representative and public relations chairman for Phi Gamma Delta.

John Todd, a history major from Gastonia, is editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and chairman of the Publications Board. Todd was awarded a Wall Street Journal scholarship this year.

Irvine Welling, a business major from Greenville, S. C., is business manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN. He is also treasurer of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and of the Social Council and is secretary of the Publications Board.