FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

(Staff Photo by Thel)

FACULTY MEMBERS SCOFF AT FRESHMAN OPPONENTS

Readying For The Kill Are Sluggers Mitchell, Polley, Ed White, J. G. Martin and Driesell Jenkins

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

“Panty raids and student protests” are to Dr. H. Harrison Jenkins, associate editor of The Columbia (S. C.) Record, one
and the same. In summing up, Jenkins reiterated that “the young ‘protest ants’ are more to be pitied than scorned
as young slobs.” They are merely different from the unwashed. Most students have been with us since the beginning of
higher education. The great generation gap of today is simply a mountain of sociological commitment. The college man should make
a real effort to become involved in areas beyond the classroom. Jenkins concluded by issuing a challenge to students of
Davidson: “an honest inquiry, so long as it does not diminish into a half-witted intellectual football game on Saturday afternoon.”

Leaders of the Davidson College Alumni Association have gathered on campus for an important meeting of the Alumni Conference this
week. Calls and a major planning session concerning the Ford Foundation grant. The entire group will attend the William and
Mary game.

Buttrick To Return For Chapel

The Rev. George A. Buttrick, visiting professor at Northwestern University in Evanston, IL, will be guest speaker at Vespers Sunday.
Buttrick, a native of England, was for many years pastor of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York City.
He later became preacher to the university and professor of Christian morals at Harvard University. Chaplain Will Terry says of
Buttrick, “He is keenly interested in Davidson; more than in most places, and most concerned and most upset at times.”
His ties to Davidson go back to when he was first appointed to the Visitors of Davidson. Since that time
Buttrick has served as both Otts lecturer and Reynolds lecturer in addition to his many other visits. He was asked
by Davidson College to retire here in a house provided by the college. Buttrick declined this offer as he wanted
to be nearer his family which has now spread across the country. He has a son who is an economist
at the University of Michigan and who does a lot of traveling in connection with aid programs sponsored by the
federal government. Most recently he was in Japan on such a mission. Another son is a pastor now serving in
the Cleveland, Ohio, area and a third son is a professor at Pittsburgh Theological Seminary. In addition to his message
in Vespers, Buttrick will deliver the sermon that morning at Davidson College Presbyterian Church and will speak in chapel on
Monday morning.

Dormitories To Get More Telephones

Five public telephones will be installed in dormitories on campus on or around November 5, Mrs. Peter Nicholls, dorm supervisor,
reported Wednesday. A new booth is also to be added in the basement corridor of the Union Building. Four of
the phones are to go on the third floors of East, Cannon, Little and Watts dorms to relieve the bottleneck
of calls created because freshmen do not have access to phones in the fraternity houses. The fifth dorm booth will
be in the central portion of Duke. A petition from a group in Watts and some general requests from freshmen,
Mrs. Nicholls said, were responsible for the action. “The ones in the freshman dorms will be public phones,” she went
on to explain, “that is, their numbers will not be listed in the directories and will not be disrupted by
incoming calls except from people to whom the hall members have given the numbers.”

Student Protests Ever-Present College Fads

A challenge to “real and actual involvement” not the non-end. Representatives from some 50 chapters of the association have arrived
for the two-day briefing session. The annual conference is seeking to review the progress of the college during the past
year and to make plans for the coming year. Bill Bondurant, director of alumni activities, noted, “My experience (with the
conference) is that it is a fast-moving program which will impress the alumni leaders.” Alumni leaders began arriving this afternoon.
After an afternoon on the Lake Campus complete with sailing for those who wish to participate, the leaders will hear
an after-dinner talk on the Humanities program by Dr. Earl McCormac, a member of the second-year team. Tomorrow morning will
be devoted to small discussion groups and a major planning session.

Nine Get Approval For Vespers Option

Nine Davidson students of the Catholic, Jewish and Greek Orthodox faiths have elected to attend churches of their own.Faiths away
from Davidson. They secured permission to do so under the provisions of last spring's modification of the Vespers attendance rule
passed by the faculty’s Religious Life Committee. Dean Richard C. Burts emphasized that the new rule does not apply to
Protestants or to students considering changing their religious affiliation. The students who are taking advantage of this option are required
first to inform Burts of the location of their church. Each Monday after attending services they go to his office
and sign the regular attendance card. Churches which the nine students have chosen to attend are St. Theresa in Mooresville,
St. Patrick in Charlotte, Temple Beth-El in Charlotte, and Holy Trinity Cathedral (Greek Orthodox) in Charlotte.

Name
Address
City
State
ZIP
I enclose $4.00
Bill me at $4.50

SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Don’t Miss A Single Issue This Fall!
Mail to: Circulation Mgr.
Box 218
Davidson, N. C. 28036

CUPID COMPUTER RETURNS

A picnic supper and combo party will highlight tomorrow’s post-game activities. The Union Social Committee, Freshman Council, Social Council, and
“Cupid Computer” join forces to entertain students and their dates. The supper, which offers ham and roast beef sandwiches, potato
chips, apples, and cookies, and the dance, which features “The Embers,” are the responsibility of the Social Council. The supper
will begin at 5 p.m. Each box-supper costs 75 cents, but Salem freshmen will get theirs free. The dance follows,
from 7:30 to 11:30 p.m.

The freshman mixer with Salem is being handled by the Union Social Committee in conjunction with the Freshman Council and
Davidson's hard-working IBM computer. “The mixer will be run just like the others, except that this time we've had the
boys sign up,” said Dave Powell, freshman adviser and Union Social Committee member. “That way we hope to avoid complications.”
Powell said that there was “apparently pretty much interest among the Salem girls” and that about 90 freshmen, about one-half
of the class, had signed up to participate. According to Powell, very few girls had signed up until a Davidson
delegation consisting of Richard C. Burts, dean of the faculty, Shaw Smith, and Bobby Vagt sold them on the idea.
As of Tuesday afternoon, some 60 Davidson freshmen had signed up for the mixer. Powell said that he would make
a cut-off after the first 90 or 95, due to the small size of the Freshman Class at Salem.

Mighty Faculty Romps On Unathletic Freshmen

Meanwhile, the surprised freshmen were amassing only 11 tallies, and they wouldn’t have accomplished that if pinch hitter Dave Fearnbach
hadn’t clouted the game’s longest homer into the right field trees. Some of the “bad guys” who played were Prof.
Peter Van Egmond, Dr. Max Polley, President D. Grier Martin, and Coaches Lefty Driesell and W. E. Mitchell. Some of
the freshmen who participated were Steve Faulk, Dave Fearnbach, Bobby Vagt, and Kurt Corriher. Besides Fearnbach, the only other real
star for the freshmen was pitcher Corriher who had a no-hitter going until the second batter came up. Coach Driesell
was the winner but was relieved in the latter part of the game. The golf competition was also marred by
questionable tactics on the part of the teachers. For example, Dr. Francis Ghigo unfairly rattled his opponent, Bill Hearn, by
winning the first five holes. Hearn tried valiantly to catch up but finally lost five and three. Another freshman who
lost his match was Dan Thornburg (to Dr. Woods), while on the brighter side, George Armstrong beat Dr. W. G.
McGavock four and two and John Gilmore beat Dr. Sam Maloney. The remainder of the golf matches were played yesterday.

Music Convocation Will Be Held Here

The sixth annual Convocation of Sacred Music will be held on the Davidson College campus on Oct. 29-30. The featured
artist for the convocation will be Miss Margaret Hillis. At the present time she is serving as conductor and choral
director of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra Chorus and choral director for the American Opera Society of New York City. Virgil
Thomson, in a review for the New York Herald Tribune, wrote concerning Miss Hillis: “Here is a musical temperament and
a musical intelligence of the highest order.” Participating in the concert will include: Mary Baldwin College Choir, Davidson College Male
Chorus, and members of the Davidson Chamber Orchestra. Then on Saturday morning, Miss Hillis will lead a seminar in Hodson
Hall on rehearsal techniques. Besides those parts of the program presented by Miss Hillis, there will be another seminar, a
recital, and a workshop on the agenda. On Friday afternoon at the Cunningham Fine Arts Center, Professors Donald Plott of
Davidson and John Williams of St. Andrews will lead a seminar: “Bach and Your Church.” “A Recital of Organ Music
by J. S. Bach” will be conducted on Saturday morning at the Davidson Presbyterian Church. The final session of the
convocation will be a workshop on “Cantata No. 140 ‘Wachet Auf’ by Bach.” The choir of the Myers Park Presbyterian
Church will be featured. The purpose of this convocation is, in part: “To provide a common meeting ground for educators,
church musicians, clergy, and laity interested in a better understanding of Sacred Music.”

Labor Economist To Speak Tuesday

Dr. Frank de Vyver, specialist in the field of labor economics, will speak on Tuesday. During the ensuing coffee break
in the Union, he will be open to questions on all phases of economic matters. “In view of the present
controversy over section 14(b) of the Taft-Hartley Act (the so-called ‘Right-To-Work Law’), Dr. de Vyver's talk will be very timely,”
said Gift. “His background in labor economics, labor relations, and labor legislation renders him highly qualified in this area. I'm
certain our conservative and liberal students alike will want to probe him during the coffee hour.” Having received his PhD
from Princeton, de Vyver claims experience in education, the business world, and public service. He is presently vice-provost of Duke
University, where he taught economics for a number of years. As vice-president of Erwin Mills, he served as labor management
negotiator in charge of contract preparation and arbitrated several labor disputes. The author of numerous pamphlets and books, de Vyver
is currently doing research on labor movements in foreign countries, with special emphasis on unions within the British Commonwealth.

Social Council Chairman Dan Campbell expressed optimism over the festivities and satisfaction with last Saturday's water ski show and square
dance. “From all the comments I've gotten, I thought it was excellent. I know I enjoyed it myself, and I
think it went over even better than we expected.”

CLOTHING FOR THE PACE-SETTING TRADITIONALIST

Cox-Moore and Lord Jeff Sweaters—London-Fog Coats and Jackets—Bostonian Shoes—Paris Belts—Sandgate Sportcoats and Suits.

John Mock & Son
Mooresville — Only 6 Miles North
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA AND SPAGHETTI
