PAGE FOUR

CAKES FOR SCHOLARS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Open End’ Discusses Fraternity Evaluation

MRS. PAUL A. MARROTTE, a faculty wife at Davidson College, is shown above delivering a cake to MRS. PETER NICHOLLS,
Davidson College supervisor of dormitories. MRS. MALCOLM LESTER (right), another faculty wife, who has already delivered her cake, stands by.
Several faculty wives surprised the fifteen recently tapped members of Phi Beta Kappa with cakes.

Amherst Students Set For Davidson Exchange

By JIM MORAWETZ
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Seven Amherst students will arrive on campus Sunday and remain until March 27 to inaugurate a two-week exchange program with
Davidson. During the second week of the program, from March 27 until April 3, Davidson will send an eight-man delegation
to study campus life at Amherst. Those making up the Amherst delegation will be Steve Murray, Andrew Rock, Andrew Isserman,
Ernest Chu, Bob Woodreff, John Knoll, and Charles Fierstine. Those chosen by the Student Council to represent Davidson are: John
Barrow, Rick Brand, Danny Boone, Charlie Dibble, Jay Federman, Tom Frist, David Powell, and Ted Pulliam. Heading this group will
be Tommy Heffner, the coordinator for the program at Davidson.

The purpose for which Amherst established this program, according to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, was to “receive insight
into other institutions” which would prove useful to its administration. One of the primary reasons for Davidson's interest in the
program is the current fraternity controversy, which has also begun at Amherst. Last month a faculty subcommittee at Amherst urged
a sweeping reorganization to make the college, in the words of The New York Times, “a genuine intellectual community.” It
recommended that the fraternities be replaced by a system of residential units, each of which would be large enough to
develop “a full range of student activities.”

The exchange will be expense-free for both groups, with the host school providing room and board. At both schools, an
informal schedule will allow the groups much freedom in visiting classes and viewing campus life. At Davidson, the visiting delegation
will be housed in the dormitories, and individual students will serve as hosts. The visitors will eat at fraternity houses
and the College Union.

The program originated last November in correspondence between the Amherst coordinator Louis Lustergarten and President D. Grier Martin. Martin discussed
the program in the Student-Faculty Conference Committee, which turned the program over to Student Council. This is the fourth year
Amherst has conducted an exchange with a Southern college.

Re-exam Period Scheduled

Re-examination period of the first semester will be held on Saturday, March 27. Approximately 15 students have applied through the
dean of students’ office for permission to take re-examinations. Some are students who missed the exams on regularly scheduled days
and notified Dean of Students Richard C. Burts of this. Several of the students carried a passing grade in a
particular course into the final exam but failed the exam to such an extent that they failed the course. These
students receive an “R” grade in that course until they take a re-exam. If a student takes an exam again,
he must pay a $2.50 fee for each exam to the office of the dean of the faculty who administers
and regulates the examinations.

Grading Period Ends Tomorrow

ALL AMERICA Reports Due Next Week

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

The faculty and administrative members of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee were subjected to a rigorous two hours of questioning in
Open End Wednesday night. Dr. John O. Kelton and Rev. Will Terry joined with Bob Young and Bob Jones, jokingly
termed by moderator Paul Simpson as “Lords of the Flies,” opened the discussion with preliminary statements. Jones stated that he
felt that the fraternity system was based on a system of exclusivism which was detrimental to the goals and aims
of the college. “The basic, fundamental issue indicates that fraternities and the college's aspirations are ‘out of joint’.” Terry followed
by pointing out that in his mind the issue was two-fold, the first point being “discrimination, i.e., I do not
think that an organization should eliminate a person from membership before he comes to college.” The second point is, “Rejection.”—
the problem of which is very acute.” Kelton, while saying that the “basic problem is the domination of the campus
by fraternities," added that “the immediate recommendations are an attempt to take the focus away from fraternities.” The effect on
fraternity members themselves was pointed out by Young who declared that “Intellectual life has a bad name around here. Everything
else is play and there is a clear division.” After the discussion was opened to the audience, Rufus Hallmark perhaps
expressed the “majority opinion” by pronouncing the desire that “students should be willing to step outside of their fraternities and
look at and try to understand their problems as we (the Fraternity Evaluation Committee) saw them.”

When asked what he considered to be the “ideal system,” Dr. Kelton retorted that it would probably be one, “not
where the blackball decides, but where a majority vote or some sort of preferential bidding, determines the membership.” However, he
added, “I can't see what is the ideal solution, that is why I don’t want us to put teeth in
it (the Fraternity Evaluation Committee Report) at this point.”

Terry was then asked what he thought was the bad effect of fraternities on their members. He replied, “I am
not sure that the fraternity system is responsible for the degree of anti-intellectualism that Bob Jones and Bob Young are
sure of. I feel that the fraternity is sort of the goat in this thing.” As to the system's effect
on the non-member he replied, “It, in many cases, is very crushing, because there are no social opportunities.”

After a debate between Hallmark and Terry as to whether the loyalty of the major portion of alumni lies with
the school or fraternities, Dr. Kelton cryptically answered a question as to the proposed location of the eating clubs by
saying “When the fall of 1966 comes there may be two or three empty houses down there which would make
lovely eating clubs.”

Union’s ‘Spring Fling’ Will Feature Movies

The College Union has planned a line-up of refreshments and movie entertainment for March 26, the last night before spring
break. This year’s “Spring Fling” will feature such films as: The List of Adrian Messenger (intrigue), The Brides of Dracula
(horror), North by Northwest (suspense), The Ugly American (documentary), The Lady Killers (comedy), and Backstreet (drama). Starting at 5 p.m.,
the movies will be shown free of charge in the Morrison Room, the Wildcat Room, and, if weather permits, out-of-doors.
All of the movies will be shown at each place at some time during the evening. During the night and
early morning, free snacks will be provided. Breakfast will even be served at the close of the party.

FRED HETZEL’S WILDCATS
- Fred Hetzel, center, captain
- Don Davidson, forward
- Barry Teague, guard
- Terry Holland, forward
- Les Heicher, forward
- David Selvy, guard
- Paul Briggs, forward

Vs. BILLY CUNNINGHAM’S ALL-STARS
- Billy Cunningham, center, captain
- Larry Lakins, forward
- Hack Tison, center-forward
- Richard Herring, guard
- Ray Respess, guard
- Bill Brown, guard
- Brent Kitchin, forward
- Dewey Ferguson, guard

Tickets on sale at THE HUB Coliseum Box Office
Student $1.00
Other $3.00, $2.50, $2.00, $1.50

FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1965
MONDAY, MARCH 22
Voting for: Student Council representatives (class officers from rising senior, junior, and sophomore classes).

TUESDAY, MARCH 23
Voting for: Student Council runoffs

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24
Voting for: Student Council runoff, if necessary (to be continued through week until voting is completed).

Tryouts To Open For Two Modern Plays

Tryouts for Ionesco’s The Chairs and The New Tenant, two modern plays of the “theatre of the absurd” movement, will
be held Monday and Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Workshop Theatre in the Fine Arts Building. All members of
the student body and the community are eligible for tryouts for the two plays, which will be the final production
of the Davidson College Drama Department. The production dates are May 6, 7, and 8.

The Chairs, written in 1952, brought wide recognition to Ionesco as an outstanding playwright and leader in avant-garde theatre. Explains
Director Rupert T. Barber, “With this play he dramatically points out the impossibility of communication between human beings.” The play
was presented in New York with great success in the late fifties. The cast consists of an old man and
his wife, both in their mid-nineties, and an orator.

The New Tenant presents one man’s manner of coping with the troubles of the world. The cast includes the new
tenant, a man of indeterminable age; the housekeeper, a talkative woman between 35 and 40; and two furniture movers, of
any age. Commented Barber, “The plays are exciting examples of experimental theatre and should prove interesting to the audience as
well as to the actors.”

Grand Opening! TATE BROWN'S NATURAL SHOULDER SHOP third floor, downtown

You're invited to a special party to celebrate the opening of our remodeled, enlarged Natural Shoulder Shop. There’ll be several
personalities in our store Saturday to help us celebrate, including Davidson’s own Hetzel and Teague. Come in, browse, meet your
friends and enjoy the fun.

Saturday, March 20

The following sports enthusiasts will appear in person to help us celebrate:
- Jim Beatty, Track Star, 10:30 to 12:30
- Dick Pierce, Hunting, Fishing, Outdoor Sports, 10:30 to 1:00
- John Kilgo, Sack Racing, 10:30 to 1:00
- Barry Teague, Basketball, 1:00 to 5:00
- Fred Hetzel, Basketball, 1:00 to 5:00

Free! Come in... see the greatest collection of Spring and Summer clothing and furnishings in the traditional manner. While you're
here, guess the number of golf tees in the jar and win a Varsity-Town sport coat and Corbin Slacks.

It's new
It's larger
It's completely remodeled
