FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOGLEMAN FULFILLS FULMINATIONS
By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Breaking recent tradition by winning a conference tournament, the Davidson tennis team ended a ten-year championship drought by capturing the
Southern Conference tournament this past week at Davidson. For Davidson, it was the school's first tournament championship since 1960 (golf).

Close behind the ‘Cats, who captured 28 points, were George Washington with 27 and The Citadel with 25. Far behind
were the rest of the competitors: VMI with 12, William and Mary with 11, Virginia Tech and Furman at 9,
and Richmond and West Virginia with 7.

For Coach Harry Fogleman, who predicted a conference championship within four years after his arrival here four years ago, the
victory capped a 21-2 regular season record gained by one senior, two juniors, and three sophomores.

Despite the closeness of the score, the tournament was wrapped up for the ‘Cats when Dick Hurd and Geordie Mueller
grabbed the number three doubles, nearly skunking their opponents from The Citadel 6-1, 6-0. All the schools except Davidson, GW,
and The Citadel were eliminated prior to the finals on Wednesday.

In the number one singles, top-seeded Bill Council of Davidson advanced past his first two matches easily, only to fall
in the finals to Dan Singer of George Washington 6-2, 0-6, 6-4.

In the number two singles, top-seeded Roy Morgan of The Citadel defeated George Montalvan from GW, 7-5, 7-5. GW got
revenge as Tom Morgan whipped Davidson's Bill Schutt and then Perry Earle of The Citadel 6-3, 6-2 for the number
three singles title.

In the number four singles, Jon Tennant of The Citadel, seeded number one, fell to Guy Temple of William and
Mary, 6-2, 6-4 to rack up a victory for the ‘Cats.

The fifth and sixth singles went to Davidson's top-seeded netters, Peter Parrott and Geordie Mueller, neither of whom lost a
single set. Parrott beat Dick Cunningham of GW 6-1, 6-3, while Mueller dropped Denny Walker of The Citadel, 6-3, 6-1.

Coach Fogleman, looking back upon the season, said, “I always felt we could win, even before the season started. Once
we got our doubles teams settled, we were okay. All of the boys have improved since the season began. Council
worked all winter, and Hurd came around despite all his labs.”

On next year's prospects, Fogleman noted, “We should have a stronger team next year. Five of our top six players
will be back, Woody Cleveland will be back, and we had an undefeated freshman team this spring. I am quite
optimistic.”

GOLFERS TAKE SECOND; VPI DONS SC CROWN
By MIKE MOOTY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's golf team journeyed to Hot Springs in the mountains of Virginia this week to cop second place in the
Southern Conference tournament. The Wildcats, boasting a 6-0 conference record, were favored to take the title, but were unable to
keep up with the hot team from VPI. The Gobblers outdistanced Davidson by twelve strokes.

The first day's action found West Virginia in first place, with VPI and Davidson tied for second, four strokes back.
West Virginia fell to third place behind Davidson in the second round as Virginia Tech moved to their commanding lead.

Davidson's Doug McKeever was a medalist in the first round, posting a fine 71, two strokes behind Neff McClary of
VPI. McKeever would have shot at least a 69 in the first round had he not lost a ball (which
he later found) on the par five 17th. McKeever, attempting to reach the green in two, failed to clear a
neck of woods on his drive.

Dr. Tom Scott described the Cascade Course where the tournament was played as a “tough” course, pointing out that there
were but twelve medalists in the entire game. The Sigma Chis jumped out to an early 4-0 lead and held
the Phi Delts to six base runners in the entire game. The Chis iced the contest in the sixth inning
when Bruce Weihe singled with two men on, and three Phi Delt errors allowed all runners to score.

Joe Jelks, the Wildcats' second baseman, said, “We hit pretty well at the start, but we just couldn't come through
in the clutch. A walk and a couple of errors just opened up the game in that bad inning we
had.”

A 69 on this round would have tied him for medalist honors.

OUR FRIENDS, THE S. CONFERENCE

Last Friday in Natural Bridge, Virginia, the Southern Conference held its annual meeting. Two proposals of some importance were voted
on, and the results of these are about what you’d expect from one of the two conferences in the nation
that still insists on determining their season basketball champion in three days.

Three years ago the Southern Conference, in a rare state of mind, decided to initiate a small reform. To prevent
schools from holding some athletes out of competition in a year when talent is abundant, and bringing these holdouts back
to play in lean years, the Conference passed an “anti-redshirting” rule on December 14, 1962. In essence, this rule said
that an athlete had four years of eligibility, expiring four years from the date of his matriculation. This rule was
to go into effect with the Class of 1967.

Last Friday at the meeting, Richmond offered a proposal to repeal the anti-redshirt rule, which had not yet been enforced
(since the Class of 1967 hadn’t been playing varsity ball long enough to be held out any). Instead of repeal,
however, Richmond got something just about as good. With only West Virginia and Davidson voting no, the Southern Conference decided
to delay the redshirt rule until the Class of 1968 would be affected. The problem was referred to a committee
to be investigated. In the meantime, a small but sound reform that was drawn up and passed in 1962 still
has not been put into effect in 1965, and at best won’t be used until the fall of 1966 —
although probably it will be delayed again.

The second stroke of genius the Conference came up with typifies even more their “mental maturity.” Last fall the football
coaches voted to recommend to this conference meeting the setting up of a minimum college board score for all athletes
receiving a grant-in-aid. The ACC has a rule putting a floor of 750 on the college boards in order for
any athlete to receive money. Well, last Friday the Southern Conference voted on the same sort of thing, the football
coaches’ proposal which put an 800 minimum on college boards for those receiving grants-in-aid. But this vote was defeated too.
The conference’s committee on academics (the Schools and Colleges Committee) felt many deserving boys (deserving, but dumb) would be prevented
from receiving scholarships.

Again this logic leaves me cold. If defeated for anything, the 800 point floor should have been voted down because
it was too low. Davidson's representative Dr. Paul Marrotte voted to establish a minimum, but like his other vote on
redshirting, to no avail.

I guess what really takes the cake is that these same Conference bubble brains, so intent on blocking any new,
adventurous reforms, refused to mention a word about possible reform in the anachronistic basketball tournament set up. The only mention
of this annual farce was a line in the budget: PROFIT: SC BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT $82,671.

TENNIS NOTES

Supposedly Col. and Mrs. Outlaw were the most vocal supporters of the tournament. Mrs. Outlaw had a glaman report that
around 600 people watched the finals. The only injuries reported were splinters (maybe).

E’s, SPE’s, Fight For Softball Title
By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Three teams, the SAE’s, Pikas, and SPE’s, continued their fight for the IMAC softball crown with no losses this past
week and three, three, and one wins, respectively, in the week’s action.

Thursday afternoon in IMAC softball games, the SAE’s edged the Phi Gams 9-8 to bring their league-leading record to 10-1.
The Sigma Chis overcame the Phi Delts 7-0, and the ATO’s took their third game in a row with a
23-4 win over the KA’s, while the Pikas downed the Pi Kapps in an 8-0 shutout.

In the SAE-Phi Gam game yesterday, the Phi Gams held an 8-4 lead going into the fifth inning when a
blast of hitting power from the SAE lineup tapped all runners to score.

Taking a doubleheader from the loop leaders, the Citadel, 7-2 and 5-1, the season's final tour for the baseball team
turned out to be by far the most successful, the most pleasant, and the most rewarding of the year. On
the trip, timely hitting, excellent pitching, and sometimes outstanding defense all helped the late-surging glovemen to take three out of
four. Scheduled to play GW at1:30, the encounter was held up by a parade on the playing field. Having awaited
the cleared field, the 'Cats began batting practice scores in the 70's out of fifty-four, only to see a group
of Negro cards on the first day's round. Players from Howard U. staring them in the face. "Cat Track Team:
ped Gam pitcher Dale Keller for five runs. The Phi Gams fought valiantly to make up the deficit, but SAE
hurler Neil McBryde guarded the lead carefully. Moaned shortstop Doug, “Hitting is the whole thing to winning these games,” said
dejected Delt, “and ours has really dropped off.” Sigma Chi shortstop Bob Pryor pointed to his team’s defensive play and
base-running as reasons for their victory. The ATO team, rallying from a bad start to the season, climbed out of
the cellar this week with three straight wins, counting the Phi Gams, the KA’s, and the Independents as their victims.
Said one player, “This week has been our best week for hitting all season.”

Davidson's thinclads bring a 5-1 season record to the Conference Track Meet at Furman to face stiff competition from West
Virginia today and tomorrow. “I think we'll get third or fourth,” ventured Wildcat track coach Heath Whittle. “West Virginia ought
to be first, followed by VMI and William and Mary, with Davidson and Furman fighting it out for fourth.” Whittle’s
charges have compiled a 5-1 record this season, but as he pointed out, “We were undefeated this season in dual
meets with our biggest victory coming over Wake Forest the week before last.” “We've had some good seniors this year.
This team stacks up well against my better undefeated teams in past years.” “We've got several boys that ought to
place in their events. Only the top five positions are scored.”

Several individuals have shone for the tracksters this year, and Whittle expects them to do well in the meet. “Alan
Turner, who is the defending champion in the 100-yard dash, ought to win again this year.” “I'm expecting Ronnie Reese
to break the school record in the 880, and Denny Phillips is going for the record in the two-mile run.”
“My discus throwers, John Fagg (who was recently praised by Mary Garber in the Winston-Salem Journal) and Jim Wallace, ought
to place high.” “David Brown had a pulled muscle, but he ought to do well.” Brown competes in the high
jump, broad jump, and pole vault. “I'm expecting my relay teams, both the 880 and the 440, to place.”

STILL UNOFFICIAL IMAC STANDINGS
SAE 10-1
SPE 8-1
Pika 8-1
Sx 6-3
Phi Delt 5-4
KS 4-3
KA 4-5
Phi Gam 4-6
Sigma Nu 3-5
ATO 3-6
Independents 2-5
Beta 2-7
Pi Kapps 1-8

With the Howard coach threatening to call the NAACP, the team was very disappointed that they did not win. “We
pointed all year for the tournament,” stated Jelks, “but we just didn’t play up to our capabilities, especially the second
day.” Scott pointed out that only two seniors will be lost off this year’s squad, and that there are some
good freshmen coming up.

By SONNY GRAVES “Inside-The-Sports” Writer

The diamondman obligingly left for another field, realizing it would be a clear-cut case of discrimination if they refused to
leave. Obviously, the politeness of the “Gentlemen” paid off as they jumped on the GW starter for six runs in
the first frame. The 'Cats were able to toy with GW the remainder of the way, winning 7-5. Dave Johnson
and Howard Bryan combined to take the victories, both hurling excellent ball. Dick Snyder, the two pitchers, and homerun hitting
Lance Walker led the day's sluggers. Howard Bryan slyly foxed the Colonials in the final game, hanging just enough high
pitches to let the Colonials fall one run short, 3-2.

To celebrate the twin victories, the team's versatile social chairman, Howard Bryan, lined up dates for several teammates at Mount
Vernon JC and S. During the night they found out why Davidson College refuses to permit athletes to drink on
trips—the “Corral” in Washington charges 65c for beer and $1.00 for gin and tonic. In high spirits, the team moved
on to Richmond. There the 'Cats, facing insults such as “any team who has lost 21 games can't be any
good,” jumped on the Spiders for a 3-1 lead but faltered in the stretch, losing 7-3. Shoddy defense hurt as
did the lack of hitting. Pitcher Dick Snyder led the team with 3 for 3 at the plate. The team
fared much better in the second game. The 'Cats leaped off to a lead, winning 6-1. Buddy Durham and Dave
Johnson combined to hold the Spiders in their web. Sparkling defense by Sonny Graves, Dick Snyder, and Lance Walker aided
the cause. Closing out the year with two losses to the Citadel, the Davidson team ended the season with an
8-24 record.

Lefty Driesell Inks Two Roundballers For Next Season

Head Basketball Coach Lefty Driesell has announced the signing of two highly-regarded prep stars for next year’s freshman team. They
are Mike O'Neill of Valparaiso, Ind., and Wayne Huckel of Cranford, N. J. O'Neill is the first of this year's
recruits to sign. The 6-5 senior has been named to Coach and Athlete Magazine’s All-America team and has been courted
by some 70 institutions. O'Neill is described by Driesell as a “real good outside shooter.” Coach Terry Holland, who saw
him play, noted, “He should fit into our system perfectly, as he played the same position in high school, the
wing, that he'll probably play for us.” Holland added that O'Neill is “strong and a good jumper.” Such impressive attributes
helped the Hoosier to an outstanding senior year as he fired in 18.4 points per game and grabbed a total
of 343 rebounds. In addition, he shot at a near-50 percent level of accuracy and demonstrated his team play with
127 assists. O'Neill ranked in the top five percent of his class. He plans a career in medicine.

The latest acquisition is Huckel. He was named to the first unit of New Jersey's All-State team and, like O'Neill,
was sought by a multitude of colleges. He narrowed his choices to Dartmouth and Davidson before choosing to come here.
Huckel, who stands 6-1½ and weighs 183 pounds, was signed by Coach Warren Mitchell. He scored a career total of
892 points, finishing up with 483 tallies for a 19.2 average his senior year. He also led his team with
196 rebounds and connected on more than 40 percent of his shots from the field. “Wayne is a good defensive
ball player,” said Driesell. He also characterized his latest prize as “real aggressive and strong.” “He is also an outstanding
student and is interested in a liberal arts education,” the coach noted.
