PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 30, 1965

Frolics Hailed Success
By JIM MORAWETZ
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Last Sunday, a tide of over 600 girls receded from the Davidson campus leaving in their wake slowly dissolving hangovers, exhaustion, and the last of good times at Davidson for months. Spring Frolics began Friday night with Dionne Warwick and Mary Wells in a concert on the front steps of Chambers Building, while Fred Smoot and the Lettermen performed in Chambers Auditorium that night.

The open-air concert on Friday was generally favorably received by the hundreds of couples seated on blankets on the front lawn of Chambers. Both singers drew applause despite trouble from the public address system and long performances by such minor stars as Little Royal between their appearances.

Saturday's concert drew comments from both students and dates. Fred Smoot, appearing first, soon established a comfortable rapport with the large audience and drew loud laughter with his Jonathan Winters-type sound imitations. Satirical routines ranging from Paul Revere’s ride to a close-up of the art of shaving highlighted his performance.

Perhaps the most polished performance of the weekend was given by the Lettermen, who have appeared at over 350 colleges throughout the country. The group combined rock and roll, folk songs, traditional favorites, instrumentals, and comedy to create a varied, entertaining effect. Despite loud cheers which followed them off stage, the trio expressed some disappointment with their reception. One member of the group commented that they had never before been hissed by a crowd, ignorant, of course, of the somewhat warped reactions which the Davidson audience traditionally offers guests of Chambers Auditorium.

IFC President Jim Terry noted that the Lettermen were extremely concerned over the fact that they were forced to begin the concert late and were afraid that the audience might be somewhat hostile for this reason. Terry went on to explain that a plane chartered by the IFC to bring the group from a Saturday afternoon concert at The Citadel had proven too small to carry their drums or string bass. Despite reluctance on their part, they were persuaded to begin without the bass, using drums borrowed from a student. Said Terry, “the great performance which they gave without the bass is an indication of how great they are.”

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, commenting on the weekend, noted the irony in Davidson's holding a dance weekend without a dance. Expressing concern that the focus of the weekends in the past has not been campus-centered, he went on to say that he hoped this situation would be changed to some degree by the efforts of the new Campus Social Committee. Asked if he thought students would actually wish to have parties on campus, Burts replied that in his opinion students would be able to enjoy themselves despite current “restrictions” on their conduct. He went on to say that he at least thought that the future would bring a closer relation between union and campus functions. A greater cooperation between the two, Burts conjectured, would produce results which would be “much more diversified and satisfying.”

An official tally from Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories, showed that 538 girls stayed in Belk and Richardson dormitories for the weekend. The extra number staying in town or in motels would bring the final tally to about 600.

Cleland To Preach At Sunday Service

The Rev. James T. Cleland, Dean of the Chapel at Duke University, will deliver the Sunday night vespers sermon. Cleland, a native of Scotland where he received his MA at Glasgow University, came to this country in 1931 and received his PhD at Union Theological Seminary in New York. In 1945 Cleland came to Duke University from Amherst as an associate professor of religion and Dean of Chapel. Cleland has been visiting professor at Union Theological Seminary, as well as a guest lecturer at Southern Methodist University, Austin Presbyterian Seminary, Lutheran Seminary, and Episcopal Theological Seminary. He received an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from Davidson in 1951.

Quinn Will Give Recital

Wylie S. Quinn, organist, will be presented in his graduation recital by the Davidson College Music Department at 8:15 p.m. Monday in the College Presbyterian Church. Quinn is a major in philosophy and religion with a minor in music. For the past two years he has served as organist-choirmaster for the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Quinn is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon and the Davidson College Student Chapter of the American Guild of Organists. He presently holds the Louise Murphy Williams Scholarship and was formerly recipient of the Theo. Presser Foundation Scholarship in music. Quinn will be heard in the “Prelude and Fugue in A minor” by Buxtehude, the “Aria Quarta” (theme and six variations) by Pachelbel and the Bach “Fantasie and Fugue in G minor.” Also included in his program will be the Cesar Franck “Choral No. 2 in B minor,” the Jean Langlais “Suite Breve” and Mulet’s “Toccata” in Tu Est Petra. Following his concert, Quinn will be honored at an informal reception in the student lounge of the church by the Adult Choir of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Dramatists To Present Two Of Ionesco’s Plays

Eugene Ionesco's The Chairs and The New Tenant, two one-act plays of the “theatre of the absurd” movement, will be presented by the Davidson College Drama Department Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. This is the third and final major production of the academic year. The Chairs, considered by many critics of today to be Ionesco’s finest serious work, had a successful New York engagement. The New Tenant is more humorous in feeling.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Abbott
Abernethy
Blackwell
Bliss
Clark
Frederickson
Hopkins
King
Martin, D. G.
Meeks
Mrs. Nicholls
Partridge
Puckett
Secor
Williams, T. A.
Woods

YMCA Outlines Plans
By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

A coffee house for the “intellectual fringe” is among the new proposals in the plans for the YMCA next year. Proposed by Chaplain Will Terry, the coffee house will be located somewhere in Davidson, and will feature a Greenwich Village atmosphere. Said YMCA President Murray Smith, “This is not to be a place strictly for entertainment, but chiefly for stimulation.” The emphasis will be on student discussions, poetry readings, and out-of-class faculty lectures. Coffee, soft drinks, and perhaps some frozen pizzas will be served.

On the weekend of April 10-11, the YMCA Cabinet met at Camp Thunderbird to discuss the purposes and plans for the organization in the coming year. Smith reported that the retreat was highly successful, and that the programs outlined at the meeting are already taking shape. “We feel,” he added, “that we have filled some gaps that were evident in the past and strengthened some weak areas.”

The faculty Religious Life Committee met Thursday for an informal lunch, to hear a proposal by Smith to expand the vespers requirement to include attendance at any church, the city not being considered. This proposal has secured the support of the Student Council, and Smith expressed optimism that it will be accepted.

Other changes and additions, as a result of the retreat, include one new committee and reorganization of others.

LECTURE PLANS

Jay Federman, chairman of the Lectures Committee, plans to combine Great Issues and Forums, creating a concentrated three-day program. During this period, probably in the first semester, three outstanding personalities and authorities will meet the students to present their ideas and to receive criticism from each other and from students.

George Nzongola, in charge of Tutorials, plans to work closely with the local high schools in trying to fill the needs of pupils who need help or who desire advanced study. Interested persons should contact him right away.

A new committee has been formed out of a section of the Tutorial committee. Mike Mooty is to head the Community Culture Committee, which will work with local teenagers.in planning trips to concerts, movies, and an outlet for those interested in dramatics.

FRESHMAN DISCUSSIONS

The possibility of no rush next year has prompted Neill McBryde to propose the Freshman Discussions Committee. These discussions would be in the halls of the freshman dormitories, serving to enable them to adjust to the new environment and to meet upperclassmen and professors. Freshman Camp will be held at Camp Thunderbird next year, instead of Camp Stewart. The change will allow every freshman who wishes to attend to do so, while in the past, space was available for only 100. Dan Campbell is solely in charge of the camp next year. He plans to create more of a religious atmosphere by including worship services, retaining the idea of an introduction to Davidson.

The remaining members of the Cabinet also have new ideas and plans for next year. They are: Jim Houser, Community Athletics; Paul Simpson, Intellectual Life; Barry St. Clair, Deputations; Andy Little, Poster Publicity; Alan Webb, Gift Fund; Eric Nichols, Fellowship of Christian Athletes; and Buck Lawrimore, Ecumenical Fellowship. Smith and his fellow officers, Vice-President Joe Jelks, Treasurer Bobby Lane, and Secretary Bobby Myers, are striving to rejuvenate the YMCA by modernizing and streamlining its concepts, purposes, and programs.

YOU CAN EARN UP TO 14 HOURS OF COLLEGE CREDIT WHILE STUDYING THIS SUMMER IN THE NATION'S CAPITAL AT THE GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY

A program designed to make the unparalleled resources of Washington, D.C., available to students in other colleges and universities.

JUNE 14-JULY 21
JULY 22-AUGUST 27

@ Special 3-week workshops in Education begin June 14, July 6, and July 26
@ Air-conditioned classrooms, library, and residence hall
@ Urban campus just four blocks from the White House

Write for catalogue: Dean of the Summer Sessions, The George Washington University, Washington, D.C. 20006

Radley ment in the late fifties and has been popular throughout the country with frequent productions ever since. It is a long one-act play with only three characters. An old couple in their nineties reflect on the uselessness of their lives and prepare for a meeting during which an orator, who has been hired, will speak to mankind for them, so that their lives will not have been lived completely in vain. Mrs. Constance Welsh of Davidson, Volumnia in Coriolanus, and Simon Blackford, a Richardson scholar from England who played Coriolanus in the same production, are teamed together again as the old couple. The burden of the play is on them, for over an hour they must create and sustain the characterizations of ninety-year-olds. “They do a fantastic job!" Rupert Barber, Jr., professor of drama and director of the production, said earlier this week. “Every rehearsal they grow older and older. This is an extremely difficult play and I am extremely fortunate to have two such intelligent and capable people doing these roles.” The third role, the Orator, will be played by Rawley Turner, who will double as stage manager. The second play, The New Tenant, is a short after-piece, land of Davidson as the Caretaker; Michael Light, another student from England, as the Gentleman; and Mike Arrowood and Ed Craig as the Furniture Men. The two sets have been designed by Mr. Preston Faggart of the Davidson College Art Department, with Howard Bryan and Bill Staples in charge of building them. Lighting will be handled by Dave James and Harry Blakeslee.

YMCA Extends Drive

The YMCA Easter Gift Fund has collected approximately $600 to date, in an effort to reach an intended goal of $2400. The deadline for the donation period has been extended to May 5 to give students a chance to recover from Spring Frolics. Neill McBryde, publicity director for the Y Fund Drive said, “We hope to reach our goal, but it depends on student reaction to the drive.” An innovation this year, the Inter-Fraternity Competition, is not working well because not enough contributions have been received yet, according to McBryde, but the charts are now in the lobby of the Union and will be revised daily to show how each fraternity stands in amount and percentage donations. All donations received from this YMCA Drive will go to help send nine students to Ecuador this summer in a sort of “cultural exchange program.” Fred Ehlers, originator of PRAM and his exchange project, remarked that, “We expect better support from the students, because the overwhelming vote of the students for this project was an indication to us of their desire to help us in carrying through with this exchange.” If the YMCA fails to raise its share of the expenses for this program, and the funds cannot be drawn by other means, then the matching grants from the Richardson and Cannon Foundations will not be given. Monday morning, Lewis Norman will speak again in chapel to try to generate more interest in this endeavor. He urges the solicitors to “get by and see the boys in their dorms,” in the next few days. “I feel that a lot of students are willing to give when they understand the full nature of this project.” Joe Davis, head solicitor for the Y-Fund Drive, also encourages his collectors to put forth a little extra effort in order that the goal may be reached this next week.

PRAM GRADUATION AWARD

Graduation day...a big day for academic and extracurricular awards. That hard-earned college degree... and for the man who has taken full advantage of his college years, a special award from the President of the United States—a commission as an officer in the United States Army... the gold bars of a Second Lieutenant. That's an award you can earn by taking Army ROTC. Those gold bars mark you as a man apart from other men—a man able to work with others—to inspire them. They mark you a leader. An Army officer's commission is proof to the world that your country places its trust and confidence in your judgment and ability—proof that you have what it takes to make a decision and then act on it. These are qualities built by Army ROTC training... qualities that will pay off for the rest of your life, no matter what your career—military or civilian. If you're good enough to be an Army officer, don't settle for less. Stay in ROTC.

Monk Captures Award With Creative Writing

We learned that being a writer is not an easy life, and that Swamp Water is probably a good book. Then Bell got around to the prize. Third place went to Kerr Thompson, a senior from Blanch, North Carolina, for his story “The Gift.” Second place was awarded to Herb Jackson, a sophomore from Raleigh, for a series of poems entitled “And So, Love.” Finally, the $75 first prize check went to a freshman from Kensington, Maryland, Paul John deLaschmutt Monk. All right, fine. All we needed now were a few quotes from the winner, and we'd be all set for the story. So we went to see him. And found the real story was not the money, nor even the award itself, but the wild and wonderful world in which Monk makes his home. It’s bedlam, literally and literarily. People are circulating constantly around him, carrying on several conversations at once. Monk fields friendly insults by the bushels, and jokes about his poetic success. He refuses to have anything from his work quoted, but most of us remember “The Saga of Old Flamplank Oldsmobile,” that nutty concoction that won the freshman writing contest for Monk. We asked to see some more of his work, and got more than we had bargained for. He is prolific, and his style has a seemingly endless variety of facets. Monk's friends think highly of him. “He's serious about his work,” they say, and tell of occasions when he’s gotten them out of bed late at night to read and comment on a new poem. Monk denies it, but not very vehemently. In short, he’s a character, in the best sense of the word. Bell describes his work as “fascinating, and fun to read.” An English department member comments on his “great potential,” which he ascribes primarily to the influence of his own English instructor, Moreland Hogan. Of his work, most of which is “Poetry of the Absurd,” some will deny its meaning, but few its merit. We got our story, though in trying to tell too much of the prize and Paul, we told too little. Keep track of Vereen Bell; it's uncovered some really fine writers. And keep track of Paul Monk; he may be one of them.