Che BDavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief PAGE TWO IRVINE WELLING Business Manager FRIDAY, APRIL 30, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

The Issue

Because of the late hour of the announcement of the Trustees’ decision this afternoon, we will not comment on the situation until next week. Rather than make a hasty statement on the important issues discussed today, we feel justified in putting off any editorial comment.

The Cat O’ Nine Tails has unleashed his pent-up diatribe finally this week in the last two columns on this page. Initially, we feel that Harrington’s first point—that the ‘fuss over fraternities’ has become too exaggerated—is pretty well impaired through the remaining 1150 words as he finds himself getting enmeshed deeper and deeper in the problem. The issue is not one that can be sloughed off simply with a six-month time limit on the discussion. No one yet has the proven-perfect solution to providing each Davidson student with an adequate social life. Therefore, any working toward the right solution through discussions and debates is justifiable insofar as the central issue is always at hand.

Furthermore, we cannot reconcile Harrington’s suggestion that THE DAVIDSONIAN does not look beyond the borders of the campus. In his platform for the editorship of this paper, Harrington himself called for “comprehensive coverage of all campus news events and appropriate editorial action.” As “The News and Editorial Voice of the Davidson College Student Body,” we are not contemplating competition in the near future with any neighboring metropolitan daily. In the weekly six-page editions no one has yet suggested that we have printed worthless news of the student body. Perhaps we exaggerated our comparison of the recent demonstration to the KKK; the students have yet to make Life magazine, even though the Charlotte news media seemed to enjoy running around campus for a few days. Also, we reiterate our recent statement deploring the call for a new student bureaucracy.

Seriously, we feel that Harrington’s misinterpretations do point a serious handicap in the discussions on the fraternity-social life question. Hasty decisions do not erase the matter, they only cloud the issue even more. We all tend to jump to quick conclusions without examining the ramifications of such a matter that involves every single student. We do share the hope that a truly equitable solution can soon be found to the social predicament on campus now.

The statement released by the Student Council this week on the issue at hand further points out the failure of really coming to grips with all of the details of this question. The Council was justified in presenting a statement of student opinion, we believe, but not in misinterpreting some of the pertinent facts of the matter. The faculty has not called for an “experiment in delayed rush,” but rather for delayed pledging. The only statement in the faculty recommendations concerning rush was the elimination of summer rush. “The total elimination of rush from the next school year” is an erroneous conclusion. Such was never proposed in the wording of the faculty action.

Secondly, the two houses on Patterson Court which would have the lowest membership next fall have assured college officials that they can survive, even without a proposed plan of financial assistance by the college. The cry of “undue financial burden” is dramatic at most. But must that stand in the way of the best interests of all students? Sure, the transition will be hard for some groups to bear, but adjustment is going to have to be made somewhere. The adjustment also includes providing adequate facilities for freshmen, and this is not so impossible. There are quite a few situations of which the freshman is not aware before he arrives on campus. We cannot believe that too many freshmen would base their decision to attend Davidson solely on the ability to pledge a social fraternity during the first week of school. Furthermore, the president of the Student Council himself endorsed the nine immediate recommendations of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee, which provides more equitably for freshman social life next year than any plan yet proposed. Among other reasons that is why we believe the nine recommendations meet the problem more squarely than any other solution yet proposed. We admonish all groups and parties to examine each idea in this matter closely and impartially. Ignorance of the facts, whether intentional or not, can serve no good.

Davidson Diplomacy

The Project of the Americas plan, inspired by Davidson’s Fredrich Ehlers, is aimed at what is probably the crux of the animosity existing for the US in the underdeveloped nations—the lack of two-way understanding between the middle classes of the US and of these countries. As Ehlers points out, the US makes contact with the upper classes and the bureaucrats through the Foreign Service and with the lowest peasant classes through the Peace Corps. But few try to know and try to make Americans known to the middle classes—the workers, the shopkeepers, the school teachers, the students.

Associate Editors: RUFUS ADAIR, JOHNNY CLARK, MICHAEL HARRINGTON. Assistant Editors: BILL AITKEN, DONALD DAVIS. Managing Editors: LOUIS LESESNE, PAUL MARION. Assistant Managing Editors: BOB HOWARD, JOE FORD. News Editor: HARRY CARR. Feature Editor: HEYWARD CARTER. Sport Editor: BILL BRIGGS. Assistant Sports Editor: SAM BOYTE. Photographers: TOM THEL, ROB JOHNSON, SAM SMITH. Cartoonists: JACK LINGLE, LOU HILL. Assistant Business Manager: BOB CAMERON. Advertising Manager: BILL WATSON. Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER. Contributors this week: Frank Fleming, John Bailey, Jim Morawetz, David Ginn, Carter Fussell, Bert Whisenant, Charles Steel, Clark Sugg, Ron Snow, Billy Farr, Bob Travers, David Coffey, Lindsay Davis, Mike May, Bob Holladay, Ted Glusman, Dick Spencer, Tom Peaden, Bob Vance, Tommy Cox, Mike Mooty, Tom Cook, Lyle Smith, Arch McCallum, Taylor Blackwell.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per year. Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under Act of March 3, 1879.

PRAM intends to send nine students to Ecuador this summer to begin a program of mutual understanding with the middle class, the class that native Ecuadorian Ehlers says “is the class that really counts.” The object is not so much to deliver US propaganda, but just to let them know Americans and to let them know Americans’ feelings on both the good and bad aspects of their country. When these representatives return to the US, they will give as many talks as possible to spread the understanding of Latin Americans that they have acquired during the summer. Nine representatives is a modest number, but a beginning has to be made somewhere. Mutual understanding is the lock that must be opened for closer and better relations between Latin America and the US. PRAM just may hold the key that fits.

Right now though, PRAM is in financial trouble. It needs the $2,000 it had expected from the YMCA Easter Fund in order to receive another $2,000 challenge grant. Failure to meet this goal could mean disaster. A lot of effort has been made to achieve PRAM’s goals. Student contributions toward these goals will probably be more lastingly meaningful than contributions for any recent Y project. The achievement of PRAM’s objectives will benefit everyone. We urge full student financial support of the YMCA drive to benefit PRAM.

By The Way

Funny thing. A certain young political science professor will not be voting in the town elections next week. It seems that he failed to register before the deadline last Friday afternoon. Maybe next year some of his voter registration volunteers will put his house on their list.

By ANN PLUNKETT from The Sophian Smith College

Today we, as college students, are bombarded by demonstrations, most of which focus on the civil rights and Viet Nam problems. There can be no doubt that demonstrations are a useful tool to call the public’s attention to the need for improvements in these areas. Yet several criticisms must be made in connection with the demonstrators themselves. One may well question just how sincerely motivated these demonstrators are, especially the students. How much do they care about civil rights or Viet Nam? The conduct of the student demonstrators in the recent march on Washington protesting the war in Viet Nam, for example, could hardly be considered praiseworthy. The Sunday edition of The New York Times is quoted as saying “Many marchers appeared to be newcomers to the ‘peace movement’ and some had only a hazy idea about how we would go about ending the fighting in Viet Nam... (they) seemed to be enjoying their holiday from exams.” Unfortunately the country’s best newspaper seems to view the march as a lark, a chance for “the beards and blue jeans” and “the ivy-league tweed coats” to vent their pent-up energy. Instead of voicing an intelligent expression of public opinion, these students are demonstrating their stupidity.

The Selma march is another example of undesirable conduct on the part of the demonstrators themselves. The demonstration itself was orderly, but what about the personal conduct of the demonstrators? Advice To Demonstrators To an accusation made about promiscuity on the march, Dr. Martin Luther King replied, (Chicago Tribune, Wed., March 23) “I know there are some things going on, but I think the moral tone of this march is higher than others.” Dr. King did not deny the charge, and neither did a personal friend of mine who went to Alabama. He admitted that there had been some deviation from “traditional morality.” You may wonder what standards of traditional morality have to do with civil rights or Viet Nam. Demonstrations are a protest against some wrong in a society. Their aim is not to destroy all traditions, but only one. People in general are not eager to learn that they are guilty of a fault, but rather to point out faults in the demonstrations. Why give them the opportunity to criticize? I realize that there are indeed many sincerely-motivated marchers, many of them clergymen who were in Alabama. I do not speak to them. But I say to the others—morality and exemplary behavior must be a part of a march. Let me stress that this is not a plea to end demonstrations, only to improve them in the public image. Let there be fewer and better-organized demonstrations. If you wish to demonstrate, ask yourself these questions. Are you well-informed on the issue? Does the demonstration have a coherent leader and a plan for suggested improvements? Newspapers would be eager to publish it. Will your conduct be in keeping with the seriousness of your cause? If your answer is yes to all these questions, what are you waiting for? Demonstrate!

CONTINUES CRUSADE Undaunted Wooten Blasts Land-Grant Misconception

Dear Editor:

There is a common misconception on the Davidson campus which I would like to take this opportunity to clarify. Davidson is NOT a land-grant college and, therefore, has NO obligation to the federal government to require all students to take ROTC. I seem to recall from an American history course in high school that the land-grant colleges...were established under the Morrill Act in 1862 and that they are now all state universities. Davidson was established in 1837, and it is a private institution. Why, then, does the college require everyone to take the ROTC program? How can anyone use the above argument, that is, that Davidson is a land-grant college and, therefore, must require ROTC, as a means of justifying the administration's policy? Indeed, there seems to me to be no justification. 

Cecil Wooten 
Davidson College 

Dial 

Dear Editor: 

The Inquirer: I am glad to see that fraternity men are waking up to the fact that Patterson Court is in need of change. 

Frates: Yes, I think our demonstration was proof that we are concerned with the future of our fraternity system and that we wish to see the proper steps taken toward correcting the social evils in the present system. 

Inq.: But why, Frates, have you not completely dissociated yourself from the fraternity system: you have indicated that you are against such things as the blackball? How can you justify your Greek membership? 

Frat.: I have two alternatives. I may choose to deactivate and thereby take a stand against the exclusiveness of the fraternity system, but at the same time, I would be limiting my chances of influencing change within the fraternity structure. Thus my other alternative: I may choose to remain within the system and work for change. 

Inq.: Which have you chosen? 

Frat.: To remain as an influencing voice within the system. I do not believe in abolishing an institution if it can be used as a foundation for improvement. 

Inq.: But isn't exclusivism the very backbone of Greek fraternities? 

Frat.: What do you mean? 

Inq.: Without the blackball system, the fraternity would be reduced to a mere eating club. All the highly selective procedures for acquiring new members would no longer be present, and the group would lose its closeness in the inevitable diversifying of its membership. 

Frat.: What you say is true. 

Inq.: And isn't the first objection to the fraternity system directed at the blackball? 

Frat.: This is true. 

Inq.: Then if the first evil to be corrected is the blackball system, its abolition in favor of 100% bidding or majority vote will undermine the entire structure of fraternities. No semblance of a Greek fraternity system will survive such a major change. Thus it appears that if you choose to change fraternities from within by correcting the social evils inherent in them, success in your endeavor will only destroy the system, not improve it. Is this correct? 

Frat.: It is. 

Inq.: Well, why do you not deactivate and stand with the group which shares your beliefs? Does the Inquirer speak the Truth, dear editor? 

Louis H. Dial 
Davidson College 

Sackett 

Dear Editor: 

I would like to clarify the remarks that I was "quoted" as making at the April 19th meeting of the Student Council. I did not say that the McGavock report was an attempt to correct a problem without ever defining it. The statement I made was that the McGavock report is an attempt to deal with the problems, and work toward their alleviation as much as possible next year, without committing the college at this time to a final system. Such an attitude would allow the greatest flexibility in experimenting to find what the best solution is. 

In regard to the statement of the faculty action, I did state that the result was a compromise. It was in relation to a possible Trustee reversal of the faculty action that I mentioned the implications of causing a faculty split. I have fully supported the McGavock report as the best action the faculty might have taken for next year. I believe that the spirit of positive action, cooperation, and working toward the best solution embodied in that report would have assured the meeting of the problems and the easiest transition to a final system. 

Fred Sackett 
Davidson College 

Cultist Film Festival Brings Wide Variety In Four Films 

By GORDON BALL 

Dedicated to the proposition that all men are created prejudiced, or at least can become so, the Union Film Committee initiated a Cultist Film Festival in the Morrison Room this past week. Running through next week, the festival is comprised of four programs which excite four distinct cinema coteries wherever films are philed: The Silence, Charlie Chaplin Meets Sid Farrar, A Day at the Races, and The Big Sleep. 

After Ingmar Bergman’s The Silence opened last Monday night before often confused, often excited Davidson audiences, Charlie on the screen and Sid at the keyboard concluded the week by making for over 100 minutes of Chaplinesque Farrargos on Thursday and Friday nights. 

The second riot of the year will be instigated by the Marx Brothers Monday and Tuesday nights in A Day at the Races. Time magazine wrote of it: “A wild, complex, totally implausible fable about a run-down sanatorium, its impudent porter (Chico), an imported horse-doctor physician (Groucho), and the steeplechase in which a speechless jockey (Harpo) gets the money to pay off the sanatorium’s debts through his brilliant ride on a horse who hates the gambler who is trying to buy the sanatorium for use as a casino — it all adds up to nothing at all except superlative entertainment." 

The fourth and final film, The Big Sleep, is scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday. All who want to see why the late Humphrey Bogart has attained a degree of immortality in the United States and France, or why, according to the Saturday Review, “Humphrey Bogart could have trimmed the pants off James Bond any old time,” should not miss this Bogy bonus. The film also has to its credit the direction of Howard Hawks, the screenplay of William Faulkner, and the emotive abilities of Lauren Bacall. 

At O' Nine Tails 

By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON 
Davidsonian Associate Editor 

THE FUSS OVER FRATERNITIES at Davidson College has become exaggerated out of all proper proportion and possible relevance. One could have patiently endured this Greek drama if there were other major topics of contention around here. But oh no, from morning to night someone is haranguing an eager audience on either 1) the ignorance of the Greeks/non-Greeks, or 2) how Davidson cannot be a citadel of virtue with/without the Greeks. 

There is really little that I can add to the clamor, except to opine that the subject doesn’t deserve this much attention and that somehow the basic issue is being avoided by both sides. There is a kind of distinction in this: Davidson is one of few schools expending almost all its energies in a dialogue on Greek-letter fraternities in a nation where almost all other student bodies are examining crucial national and international issues. 

* * * 

WHAT MAKES THIS CONTROVERSY so boring is the tremendous amount of mutual ignorance and bombastic self-righteousness revealed on both sides. There is first a tendency to credit fraternities with super-human powers. Both professors and students speak as though there were some mysterious fog of evil/good that creeps up from the Patterson Court, strangling or uplifting everybody and everything on the campus. This is absurd. 

There is no such animal as a “fraternity mind,” something anti-intellectual, snobbish and brutish—at worst there are only men with these qualities who happen to be in fraternities (there may even be a few non-Greeks with these qualities also). Likewise there is not something called “Independents” that has a high-pitched voice and dates boys when it’s not flitting around the library. That “mysterious fog” coming from Patterson Court or the Union that either elevates or strangles campus life simply doesn’t exist. Whatever social problems there are begin in individuals and their attitudes, not in “groups”—these are nothing more than the individuals therein. 

* * * 

EVEN MOST CHAPEL SPEAKERS, no matter what their original topics, now find it necessary to tie the sources of all evil/good to the fraternities. One man somehow made the fraternity issue a vital part of “European studies”—another speaker tried to compare the student demonstration to the mob at Golgotha. Do all roads lead to the fraternity problem, or is it that the fraternity problem leads to all roads? I hope it’s the latter, but I’m not certain. 

* * * 

RECENT ISSUES OF THE DAVIDSONIAN reveal prime examples of the emotionalism and underlying strata of exaggeration surrounding the fraternity question. Many letters sent to the editor have shown a reasonable grasp of the relevant issues—it is unfortunate their topics rarely extend beyond the Davidson campus. Other letters have done nothing except bleed at the gums for the poor non-Greek/Greek with not-too-subtle name-calling. 

One student invited all comers to punch him in the nose. Some fired phrases like “ill-conceived tripe” and “asinine” as if they were arguments—the self-righteousness implied here would be amusing if it were not pathetic. I suppose one can admire their professed social concern, but certainly not their expressed intelligence quotients. 

* * * 

FOR SOME REASON this paper’s news and features rarely manage to cover south of the cherry cider stand on US 21, north of the proposed Mooresville liquor store, east of Erwin Lodge or west of Lake Norman. This Presbyterian paper has done what all the medieval Catholic theologians failed to do—make the sun go around Davidson. The editorial comments have only occasionally looked at any wider area of terra firma—save for an occasional borrowed editorial from The Christian Science Monitor. And on the fraternity question there have been ponderous tomes (usually proclaiming the original sins of the Greeks), the cartoonists valiantly trying to reflect the weight of the subject. 

More recently there has been a kind of improvement—now the editorial comment is so confused and ambiguous no one can be quite certain what the current editorial staff thinks about the fraternity question. And only rarely can one be sure of what it thinks about anything else. 

But recent editorial columns do reveal some of the absurd exaggerations that have plagued discussion of the Greek issue: The rather mild and innocuous student demonstration pro-fraternities was aghastly proclaimed a half-baked KKK rally—a proposed mixture of fraternities and eating clubs was labeled a return to segregation—and student appeal to the trustees was called formulation of a student bureaucracy. 

These mental burps I think very nicely point out the lack of sound thought and inadequate recognition of relevant issues over the past six months. 

* * * 

AND DOUBTLESS THE VOLUME of mutual ignorance and pompous self-righteousness will continue for at least a few more weeks. The irony is that by attacking/defending fraternities, the participants in this dialogue are treating only the symptoms of the social problems here at Davidson. The problem is not one of fraternities, but rather of what constitutes an adequate social life. Greek-letter fraternities are strong at Davidson because there is tremendous need for such—the conditions of modern society make both academic and social life pretty rugged at a rural men’s college. The practical problem of the adequate social life seems to have been overlooked—as well as its relationship to the academic curriculum. 

* * * 

THIS FRATERNITY DIALOGUE was needed. And perhaps it marks a new dawn in student awareness—I hope so. But I don’t think it deserves everyone’s exclusive attention any longer, even if it has raised relevant questions and issues. It’s time to move on. Some of these other issues are important,