PAGE SIX

MONDAY, MARCH 8
Chapel address by Will Jackson, explaining election procedure, schedule, and rules.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10
Deadline for filing for office. (Candidate files for student body office, Honor Court, Freshman Advisor, Student Council, and cheerleader.)

THURSDAY, MARCH 11
Chapel: Passing out of election cards.
6 p.m.: Deadline for turning in stencils of platforms.

FRIDAY, MARCH 12
Platforms returned to candidates by 6 p.m.

MONDAY, MARCH 15
Chapel: Speeches by candidates for Student Body President.
Voting for:
- Vice-Presidents of Student Body
- Secretary-Treasurer of Student Body
- Honor Court Members
- Editor of Quips and Cranks
- Editor of Scripts 'n Pranks
7:30 p.m.: Open forum for Presidential Candidates.

TUESDAY, MARCH 16
Voting for:
- President of Student Body
- Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN
- Vice-Presidents of Student Body (runoff)
- Secretary-Treasurer (runoff)
- Honor Court Members (runoff)

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17
Voting for:
- Cheerleaders
- President of College Union
Runoffs, if necessary.

THURSDAY, MARCH 18
Chapel: Presidential Candidates of YMCA speeches.
Voting for:
- YMCA officers
- Freshman Advisor
Runoffs, if necessary.

FRIDAY, MARCH 19
Voting for:
- Runoffs, if necessary.

MONDAY, MARCH 22
Voting for:
- Student Council representatives.

TUESDAY, MARCH 23
Voting for:
- Runoffs, if necessary.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

POETICAL MEMORY
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1965

Miss Frost In Love
By MIKE MAY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

A real live Yankee turned up in chapel Thursday. Dr. Lesley Frost, daughter of Robert Frost, is from New Hampshire,
and by the time she was through speaking every one of her somewhat breathless listeners could have guessed as much.

Deadlines Made For Nominations

Steve Bunch, president of the College Union, has announced that applications are now being accepted for nomination for 1965-66 Union
president. Applications in writing and including the applicant's qualifications should be turned in to Bunch or to the Union desk
before March 10. Also, Ken Essox, head cheerleader, is accepting nominations for cheerleaders for next year. The deadline for nominations
is also March 10.

Student Council released an elections schedule this week for next month’s balloting. In a chapel address March 8, Council President
Will Jackson will explain the concise schedule adopted for this year.

Once the predominantly Southern ears of the assembled Davidson Gentlemen had become accustomed to Miss Frost’s clipped tones, they found
themselves confronted with an engaging personality. Her message—that life should be lived to the fullest and that this goal may
be approached by artistic participation—was one which she felt strongly. “Fall in love with as many kinds of living as
possible.” This was really the burden of Miss Frost's remarks. By her own statement, she had found...

Y Theater Explores Man Today

The Theatre of Concern, sponsored by the Davidson YMCA, will present “What's the Big Idea” in Hodson Hall at 8
p.m. Wednesday. “What's the Big Idea,” described as “a potpourri for two,” consists of a series of four short plays
from the theatre's repertoire and concerns modern man, his frustrations, and his false gods.

Scott Narrowly Loses Race For State Position

Tom Scott, a Davidson junior, was narrowly defeated in his bid for vice-president of the State Student Legislature of North
Carolina at the organization's convention at the old State House in Raleigh last weekend. This marked the first time in
recent years that a Davidson student has run for a state office at the convention. The winner in the final
election held Saturday afternoon was Charles Daye, a student at North Carolina College.

Election of officers climaxed two days of legislative action and campaigning. Scott's name had been placed in nomination by Davidson
delegate Chuck Matthews, who also delivered the nominating speech. The seconding speech was given by Beth Garraway, president of the
student body and delegate to the convention from Queens College.

Politics is not a new game for Scott, a transfer student to Davidson from East Carolina College. While at East
Carolina, Scott was class president for two years and active in numerous campus activities. He has attended the State Student
Legislature for the past three years.

Representing Davidson College at the meeting along with Scott and Matthews were Joe Beard, Mark Brown, Ted Pulliam, and John
Hutcheson. The delegates arrived in Raleigh and attended the opening banquet for all delegates on Thursday night. Approximately 30 North
Carolina colleges and universities sent delegations to the convention.

MOCK SESSIONS

During the next two days, delegates attended mock sessions of the House and the Senate and acted on several imaginary
bills. Each school had two Senators, while House representatives were allotted in proportion to student body enrollment. Davidson had three
members in the House: Brown, Beard, and Matthews. Scott and Hutcheson served as Senators, with Pulliam serving as an alternate.

The Congress met five times during the session, three times on Friday and twice on Saturday. Some of the bills
which passed both houses were a bill submitted by Elon College requiring four years of physical education in public high
schools in North Carolina, and a resolution submitted by UNC to establish a state lottery, with proceeds to be used
for improving education in North Carolina. Davidson's delegates voted in favor of these bills, with the exception of Beard, who
voted against the physical education bill.

NOT ENOUGH TIME

The Davidson contingent had hoped to present a bill calling for the repeal of the “Speaker Ban Law,” but there
was not sufficient time at the legislative sessions for them to do so.

In the election of officers Saturday, each representative had one vote. Jane Levine from Duke University was elected president, becoming
the first girl ever to hold the office. Davidson cast the deciding vote in this close election by supporting Miss
Levine. Scott noted that there was a good deal of bloc voting by the various schools in this and in
the other elections.

POLITICS!

Scott explained that there was quite a bit of “politicking” done at the convention, and that all the delegates were
involved in lobbying, campaigning, and debating. John Hutcheson’s debating in the Senate merited particular praise from Scott.

A combo party held on Thursday night, and various caucuses, meetings, and campaigning kept most delegates up all night talking
with and meeting other delegates. Scott commented tongue-in-cheek that several of the female delegates saw a distinct likeness between John
Hutcheson and actor Robert Mitchum, affording the Davidson contingent a big laugh.

Scott expressed his hope that Chuck Matthews, who “did an outstanding job on his seconding speech and debating as a
member of the House,” will run for an office in the State Student Legislature next year.

QUITE HAPPY

Although disappointed that he was defeated, Scott was quite happy with the entire program and commented that he hopes Davidson
will continue to show an interest in state college politics. Scott concluded that “the Davidson delegates did a real fine
job in all the areas which they entered at the meeting,” and that they all “regarded the experience as quite
valuable.” The group returned to Davidson from the convention on Sunday, after spending Saturday night at UNC in Chapel Hill.

SPRING, 1965

Eight From Amherst To Initiate Exchange
By RON SNOW
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Eight Amherst College students will be guests of the college from March 21-27 in the initiation of an exchange program
between Davidson and Amherst. This is the fourth year that Amherst has worked this exchange with various Southern colleges. The
delegates will stay in the dorms, eat at the fraternity houses and the College Union on a rotational basis, and
attend classes and seminars as they choose. It is expected that Davidson will offer a host-type arrangement in which one
or a few students would be responsible for one of the exchanges during his stay here.

There is no formal meeting or panel scheduled with the students; but Tommy Heffner, program coordinator, said that there might
be an Open End discussion with them one night of that week. When asked if there would be any Negroes
in the group, Heffner replied, “Amherst is integrated, and the letter said the delegation would be representative.”

The program is expense-free, the host school providing room and board. The students pay their own transportation to and from
the exchange school. The students from Amherst are coming during the second week of their spring vacation. Heffner said that
24 Davidson students have thus far expressed an interest in going to Amherst during their spring vacation which begins March
27. Anyone interested in the program should contact Heffner or any member of Student Council, and from the list, eight
persons will be selected within the next week. Transportation to the Massachusetts college will be provided by Davidson College. Heffner
also asked that anyone interested in keeping one of the students in his room or serving as a host, should
contact him soon.

The first of the four plays, “The Well Spoken Acrobat,” is a simple allegory of atonement...by Norman Dietz, and termed
“a comic examination of the frustrations of human communication.” The second play, “Old Ymir’s Clay Pot,” also by Dietz, is
about a good potter who creates a rebellious pot which he later forgives. “Oratorium,” adapted from a play by Par
Lagerkvist, is an indictment of man’s brutality to man in the moving personal testimony of Jesus and Judas. “How Do
I Get There From Here?” is a concluding fusillade aimed at the clay feet and big mouths of the gods
men make to live by. The Theatre of Concern is a touring company of two, formed in 1962 by Dietz
and his wife Sandra. Since the inception of the theatre, they have staged more than a dozen different plays—most of
them contemporary, some controversial, and many comic.

With less than a dozen New York actors who have traveled with them from time to time, the Dietzes have
performed in churches, colleges, and universities from North Dakota to Tennessee and are now en route to the West Coast.
The work of the Dietzes has taken them to theatre workshops in Pittsburgh and Chicago and to taping sessions for
TV series in Philadelphia and St. Louis. Together the Dietzes have produced an expensive spectacle with a cast of over
100 players called “The Town Went Boom.” They have also toured alone for over a year with a two-character program
called “How’re Things And So Forth?” During their travels, and at their New York home, they rehearse. Norman writes, developing
much of the material for the theater itself, and Sandra costumes the show.

Terry To Explore Bible Scholarship

Chaplain Win Terry will preach at vespers Sunday evening. “What I’m going to preach about—I don’t want to give it
a title,” Terry explained, but the sermon will concern the difficulties biblical scholarship causes for biblical faith. “It is a
problem which I think is a real problem for Davidson students.” Most students come to Davidson viewing the Bible as
the authority for their faith. When they encounter inconsistencies and “errors” of a sort, revealed by biblical scholarship in their
Bible courses, “the ground of their faith is knocked out from under them,” he explained. “It really amounts to ‘What
do we mean when we say the Bible is the word of God,’” Terry concluded. Sunday evening’s service is part
of a new plan to give the chaplain more opportunity to preach at vespers. Many feel that he is better
qualified to speak about the problems of Davidson students than others would be since he lives on campus.

DR. LESLEY FROST

A Real Live Yankee

That life was really opened up through art, especially poetry. Poetry, of course, is peculiarly the heritage of Miss Frost,
and she had a lot to say about it. She was convinced that the knowledge of poetry leads to adventure,
and she illustrated the idea with several incidents from her own life. “Happenstance,” according to the speaker, “is something that
has to happen because of our wishful thinking.” Wishful thinking will finally meet opportunity, and when it does, opportunity may
be seized. To illustrate her points, Miss Frost recited a number of poems by her father and others. Opinion varied
as to the quality of her reading, but students were unanimous in their amazement at her prodigious memory. So now
Davidson College is included in the world in which Miss Frost is renowned. Some of her audience felt that her
presentation did not do justice to some of her material. Nonetheless, the number of her listeners who were asleep was
smaller than usual, and those who remained awake were rewarded with one of the year’s more interesting chapel programs.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Applewhite
Cole
Beck
Frey
Bondurant
Holland
Bryan
Johnson, N.
Campbell
Lester
CIO
Lindsey
Van Egmond
McGill
White
H. E. Mebane
Winkler
Parker
Wruck
Rogerson

Program Is Planned To View Censorship

Bill Williams, associate editor of the Gastonia Gazette, will show the film, Perversion For Profit, and will lead discussion after
the presentation. Williams, an advocate of strict enforcement of North Carolina’s anti-obscenity laws, is a member of the Committee on
Decent Literature and Movies. Perversion For Profit is a “30-minute, graphic presentation of the pervasion of pornography in the United
States.” Gary Martin heads the committee which was formed to investigate the present ethical dilemma of censorship. Martin pointed out
that “We do not want anyone to get the idea that we are going down to the Hub to clean
house.” He commented that, “Since it is such a controversial issue which all students will be faced with in their
respective communities, we are merely trying to acquaint the student body with the different viewpoints of the issue. This program
will be followed up by the coming of Paul Goodman through the YMCA series on sex.” Goodman, a writer by
occupation, who had some of his philosophy on sexual mores presented in the February issue of Playboy, will present the
viewpoint opposing censorship. The issue was first brought to light on the Davidson campus by Mrs. Ethel Nash last week,
as she emphatically opposed censorship and even went so far as to say that “some degree of pornography is good
for us.”

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Tuition Deposits Due; Room Sign-Ups Begin

Tuition deposits of $100 on next year’s tuition must be paid no later than March 15, M. W. McGill, college
bursar, announced this week. McGill explained that invoices for the $100 advance deposit will be mailed next week. Upon payment
of the deposit, students may make room reservations for next year. This will be carried out as it has in
the past, according to Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor of dormitories. An information sheet concerning the procedure will be mailed with
the invoice. According to Mrs. Nicholls, students should start now arranging for their roommates. Students wishing to room with Richardson
Scholars may put in a request now. Cards entitling students to room reservations will be issued on payment of the
tuition deposit. Both roommates must have paid before a room will be assigned. According to the schedule, students wishing to
keep their present rooms can make arrangements with Mrs. Nicholls between March 1 and March 15. On March 16, rising
seniors wishing single rooms or three-man suites may draw for available rooms. Other students will draw numbers to determine the
order in which they may reserve rooms, as has been done in the past.

WINS REYNOLDS SCHOLARSHIP

Tommy Heffner, vice-president of the Senior Class and a native of Newton, is one of eight North Carolina college students
to receive Reynolds Scholarships for study at the Bowman Gray School of Medicine. Sponsored by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation,
the scholarship will provide each recipient with $14,000 during his four years of medical school.

The New 2-Year Army ROTC Program

A new Reserve Officer Training Corps program permits selected college sophomores to be commissioned as Army Second Lieutenants in two
years. You can do this by:
1. Completing a special 6-week summer camp between your sophomore and junior years.
2. Completing the 2-year Advanced Course at any school offering the ROTC program.

What are the benefits of Army ROTC training?
- $40 per month pay while attending the Advanced Course, plus uniforms, pay, and paid travel for summer camps.
- Eligibility for free flight instruction at selected schools leading to a private pilot’s license.
- A commission as an Army officer, with all of its accompanying benefits, including higher income, greater opportunity for advancement,
and officer status.
- The personal satisfaction that comes from knowing you’re trained to assume leadership responsibilities.

These benefits will put you a step ahead of other college graduates and will pay off for the rest of
your life. You owe it to yourself to investigate these new opportunities. For complete information, see the Professor of Military
Science at your school, or send the coupon below.

U.S. ARMY ROTC
Post Office Box 1040
Westbury, New York 11590

Gentlemen: Please send me information on the 2-year Army ROTC program. I understand that there is no obligation.

Name: _______________
Address: _______________
City: _______________
State: _______________
College or University: _______________
