FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Fraternity Evaluation Committee Reports Chairman Reports

The following represents the report of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee, which I, as Student Body President, was authorized in November 1964 to appoint and chair in order to inquire into criticisms made of the social system at Davidson and to attempt specific remedial recommendations. The membership of the Committee reflects an effort to view fairly the problems of the fraternity system from several appropriate perspectives. The committee is composed of five undergraduate fraternity men, including the President of the Interfraternity Council; three independents, including the President of Lingle Manor; and four faculty-administration members, including the immediate past and present Fraternity Liaison Officers.

This Committee has officially met nineteen times since it began its work on December 10, 1964. A tremendous amount of time and energy has since gone into the work of the group and into the compilation of this report. Several avenues have been taken by the Committee in an effort to approach a realistic answer to the query, "Are the fraternities serving the needs of Davidson College and its students, and are there specific steps that might be taken to better serve these needs?"

Questionnaires sent out have polled the opinions of Davidson student leaders of the past ten years, as well as representative independents of the same period. The present fraternity systems and social situations at other schools, especially those similar in nature to Davidson, have been examined. Students, faculty, and administration personnel at Davidson have submitted their personal statements on the fraternity system for the Committee’s study. In our attempt to find answers to the problems of the social system, primary emphasis has been placed on personal interviews by the Committee with those persons who are interested in and knowledgeable of the problems and strengths related to our fraternity system. A goodly number of the faculty, administration, and student body have appeared before the Committee, as well as representatives of other schools and of national fraternities. An attempt has been made, of course, to assimilate all this information into some accurate appraisals of our situation and some equally realistic recommendations for action to improve this situation.

On certain basic points and problems of our study, the Committee itself has been sharply divided on both philosophic orientation and practical proposals. The evidence of both agreement and disagreement is obvious in the Committee statement and minority statements which comprise this total report of the Committee’s study. As Chairman of this Committee, I do not have the power to vote on proposals before the Committee except in the case of a tie vote on an issue. However, I do feel it necessary to comment in this statement that I am essentially in agreement with the opinions and stands of the minority report of Council, Kelton, Ross, and Terry. I do not agree with the Committee report's apparent conclusion that elimination of the fraternity system per se at Davidson is the best possible solution for correcting the deficiencies in our social situation. I hold rather that relatively moderate changes plus continued evaluation of the fraternity system, its faults and merits, will best achieve the ends that are the ultimate goal of this report.

It is hoped that the material contained in this report will provide stimulation, insight, and information in working toward the best social environment for Davidson in its continued growth as an outstanding educational institution.

Willis O. Jackson, Jr.
Student Body President

Committee Speaks

PREFACE

The Fraternity Evaluation Committee, having studied at length the problems involved with the fraternity system as presently constituted, has concluded that the fraternities have assumed a paramount and disproportionate role in the organization of student social life and that this role should be substantially altered. While no single alternate plan of organization has been supported by every member of the Committee, the one which follows was agreed upon by the majority. Not only do we believe that this plan promises to remedy current problems, but we also believe it is in itself a desirable form of organization. We recognize, at the same time, that any steps in the direction outlined herein will produce new circumstances which may indicate that the goal we have proposed should be pursued more actively, should be modified, or should be replaced by a new one. Therefore, we recommend at the end of the report that along with other immediate steps which should be taken, a permanent Social Life Evaluation Committee should continue this work. Whatever that committee may decide, we ourselves, having spent several months in deliberation, are convinced that it is wise and appropriate to begin these reforms now.

PREMISE

The establishment of Davidson College gave concrete expression to the hopes of its founders that the democratic and Christian pattern of life would be perpetuated by those who studied here. In the words of the Statement of Purpose, Davidson seeks to “nurture the whole man," "to develop men of humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds and of Christian character." Its educational aspirations, therefore, go beyond the classroom to include as legitimate to its interests the social, physical, and moral maturation of the student. Therefore, we believe it appropriate to adopt as the basic premise of this inquiry the following: That the formal aspects of the organization of student social life, broadly conceived, should be at all points in accord with the Christian, democratic, and educational aspirations of Davidson College. To do less than apply this criterion to the matter assigned to us, namely the evaluation of the fraternity system, would be failing to be true to that which is most worthy and most essential in the traditions of the college. If we had not applied it we could at best propose temporizing expedients which would deal with the symptoms rather than the cause of the present malady.

PROBLEM

The evidence we have accumulated has forced us to conclude that the organization of student social life at Davidson under the fraternity system as it now exists is a serious obstacle to the realization of the premise. We do not question the fact that these groups have often benefitted the program of the College by providing their members opportunities for the assumption of responsibility, for self-discipline, and for social adjustment. Moreover, we believe that the ideals upon which the fraternities have been established and the loyalty to the College which they have fostered have been of real value. Nevertheless, we believe that the fraternities have also had negative effects of sufficient consequence to compromise the premise above in a fundamental way. The following items describe in general terms several points at which this is apparent:

1. Within the aspirations of the College it is reasonable to expect that each student should be able to seek and to find a form of social expression without being embarrassed or handicapped by institutionalized criteria of social acceptability which are neither germane to nor consistent with the Christian, democratic, or educational goals of the College.

2. Within the aspirations of the College it is reasonable to expect that each student should be able to pursue his education without being distracted by influences which place inappropriate emphasis on conformity to peer group norms and which thereby make undue demands on time, interests, and effort.

3. Within the aspirations of the College it is reasonable to expect that each student should be free to determine his own friends and associates, neither being compelled to abandon this freedom to others nor depriving others of its opportunities.

4. Within the aspirations of the College it is reasonable to expect that so long as fraternity membership is determined by the traditional blackball method (a procedure designed for a small voluntary and closely-knit group), the fraternity role should be limited to that in which the blackball was originally felt to be appropriate.

Whatever the fraternity system may have been in former times, it is well known to all those familiar with student life at Davidson now that it has become the basis for a clearly defined system of arbitrary barriers. These barriers structure a social system in which there is inequitable distribution of social privilege and esteem. Those who arrive as Freshmen with a certain degree of social sophistication usually manage to negotiate the perils of Rush Week successfully. This success, made concrete in pledging a fraternity, ushers them into a position of social privilege. Those who are not successful and do not receive any bids are the outcasts at Davidson. They are rejected by the fraternities and in many ways by the college as well. At the deepest probing of our inquiry, it has become evident that the fundamental question which we face is this: should such a system dominate the social relationships of the student body? Given the Christian, democratic, and educational ideals of the college, the answer is clear. Such a system is contrary to any Christian or democratic social ethic. At the present time the democratic and Christian pattern of life which is commended in the classroom and preached from the pulpit is ignored as a practical possibility in the social organization of student life.

This issue will not be met, we believe, simply by changing the time when a student joins a fraternity. A delayed rush could indeed soften the blow of rejection, but rejection is only one symptom of the basic issue. Total opportunity bidding has also been suggested as a means of solving the problem of rejection, but, in addition to avoiding the real issue, its adoption would result in the loss of a number of charters from the national fraternities. Other measures, we determined, are needed.

While we recognize the problems of students who are not a part of Davidson's main social system, we also feel that an equally large problem is the effect on those who are members of the system. In the first place, we feel that the current fraternity system at Davidson has come to play a disproportionate part in the life of the student; that entirely too much energy is used in rushing and pledge training as a means of perpetuating the fraternities; that too much time and interest is consumed in fraternity affairs; and that a healthier atmosphere would be one in which more of a student's time is spent both in social relationships that are more diverse and dynamic and personal pursuits that are more substantial.

The blackball system as a means of membership selection tends to produce a restrictive homogeneity among members. It has been noted that certain fraternities go for long periods of time with no members involved in certain curricular and extracurricular activities on the campus. The Committee strongly believes that in an area which dominates such a significant portion of the student's life (eating and recreation), less binding group membership would better provide for the attainment of the educational goals of the College.

In the second place, we are concerned with a fraternity's effect on the individual's freedom to choose his own friends and associates. On the one hand, so much time is spent at the fraternity house that the member's circle of friends tends to be drawn for the most part from the fraternity. This group, however, is one from which any individual member can exclude a potential member, but one in which that member has little real control as to who will be included. This belies the argument that fraternities preserve freedom of association since they actually curtail that freedom. In practice they institutionalize an individual's freedom to reject another, with the not infrequent effect of trapping a person in a group into which he cannot bring his friends.

On the other hand, the financial necessities of operating a boarding house force the fraternities to maintain such a size that their original purpose, to embody a small, voluntary, and closely-knit brotherhood, is defeated.

Although this Committee has no authority of its own to effect any changes in Davidson's social structure, we feel that it is appropriate to our task not only to evaluate the fraternity situation as it exists today, but also to outline what can be done to organize social life more suitably. A fundamental reform is called for if social life at Davidson is to contribute to the goals of the College and to the needs of its students. An outline of this structural reform is given below.

We would point out that this Committee has not happened upon these insights alone. In 1960 the issues were recognized when several student body leaders resigned from their fraternities in conscientious protest. Of the 23 student body leaders of the last decade who answered the Committee's inquiry on the fraternity system, 65% indicated that they would favor a total opportunity bidding system. (While not currently a concern of the Committee, total opportunity was an early proposal designed to remove the inequities in the present system.) The restiveness of a number of students and faculty with the present system has been shown in letters to the Committee and to THE DAVIDSONIAN.

PROPOSED SOLUTION

At Davidson it has long been the custom to think of the nature and benefits of social groups in terms of the traditional model provided by the fraternities. While we believe the distinct advantages of small groups at Davidson should be maintained—indeed that opportunity for membership should be given all students—we do not believe that the fraternity model is the only one under which such groups can be successfully and beneficially organized. In an attempt to provide a structure of student social organization which would include small social groups and embody, at the same time, the initial premise, the Committee has thoroughly discussed and criticized the following proposal. The majority supports it as the solution toward which to work.

1. That each freshman class eat together for the entire year without formal relationships to upper class social organizations; that their intramural athletic competition be organizedaround dormitory divisions; that an administrative staff member be employed whose chief responsibilities would be to work with the members of the freshman class in the interests of a better transition to college life and college pursuits.

2. That the members of the three upper classes eat in Club Houses, currently occupied by the several fraternities. The membership of the Clubs would be determined solely by individual choice, limited only by the capacity of the houses and the requirements of equitable and orderly selection. (See paragraph three under “Transition Steps.”)

3. That the recreation, social life, and intramural competition of the upper classes be organized around the Clubs, which will separately devise their own means of self-government.

4. That campus-wide social events be planned by a Social Council, representing all students. Each would contribute to the budget of the Council through a social fee assessed by the College.

5. That the original conception of a fraternity, as a small company of like-minded individuals who support common purposes and who wish to foster closer ties among themselves, be restored by limiting membership to the junior and senior classes. Members would be selected in a manner consistent with the fraternities’ traditional constitutions, so long as any Davidson student was officially eligible for initiation, and selection would represent a distinction based both on the merit of the man and of the fraternity as mutually recognized by each.

TRANSITION STEPS

A prime virtue of this proposal is that its realization is possible within the existing facilities and organizations of the College. The period of transition would doubtless present problems, as may be expected of any period of social adjustment, but with firm and confident leadership the transition could be made reasonably smooth and without interrupting the progress of the College. As a matter of general policy, in order to insure maximum flexibility and student initiative within the broad guidelines of the proposal, as much self-determination and leadership would be left to the Clubs and student governing organizations as feasible. With this in mind, the following minimum conditions would be necessary to insure the successful implementation of the proposal.

1. Beginning with the class of 1969, a student would not pledge a Greek letter social fraternity until after Spring vacation of his sophomore year, nor would initiation follow until some convenient time after the beginning of his junior year. Rushing would be on an informal basis. Those in classes prior to 1969 could be rushed and pledged at any time seen fit by the fraternities.

2. The Club identity of a house would be assumed in the fall of 1966 for the purpose of intramural athletics and the like. The fraternities would continue to use their present chapter rooms as meeting places, but to prevent domination of a Club by any given fraternity, some limit would be set as to any one fraternity’s representation in any Club—this limit to become effective in the fall of 1967.

3. Beginning with the academic year 1966-1967, any upperclassman could choose to eat with any Club he desired with the following provisos:
   a. Any student eating in a house during the previous semester could exercise an option to remain in that house for the following year.
   b. The capacity of each house would be set at some reasonable number; when that many persons had selected a given Club, no additional members would be allowed.
   c. All eligible students who desired to choose a Club, whether they were members of the rising sophomore class or were upperclassmen who desired to be with a new Club, would be assigned a number at random to determine the order in which the selection of Clubs would be made.
   d. A small group of individuals could determine to form a bloc and join a Club together; their position in the order of selection would be given to the group rather than to the individuals separately.

4. In the fall of 1966 the current Housing Fee would be charged of all Club members. In addition, a Maintenance Fee would be assessed and credited to the account of the Club in which the individual was a member. This account would provide funds for new decorations and furnishings in the Club’s house. In order to assure equitable financial benefits, a common ceiling would be set by the Clubs for the combined boarding and social fee.

IMMEDIATE RECOMMENDATIONS

The following recommendations cover the initial actions necessary to implement the above proposal. They could lead to other organizational arrangements as well. A substantial majority of the Committee think that these steps should be taken before the end of the current academic year.

1. We recommend that no member of the class of 1969 may pledge himself to a national Greek letter social fraternity during the academic year 1965-1966.

2. We recommend that the members of the class of 1969 eat in the College Union during the academic year 1965-1966.

3. We recommend that the Administration immediately secure an additional staff member to serve as Assistant to the Dean of Students for Freshman Affairs beginning in the fall of 1965.

4. We recommend that the Student Council, through its proper constitutional procedures, make provision for a campus-wide Social Council which would assume the responsibility, currently borne by the Interfraternity Council, for planning campus dances and concerts.

5. We recommend (a) an increase in the General Fee to provide income for the budget of the Social Council and for an increase in Union activities, and (b) an additional fee to be assessed of all freshmen to provide for an expanded freshman social program (this fee would be in lieu of fraternity fees which would otherwise be assessed from the majority of the freshman class).

6. We recommend that freshmen who have attained a 1.5 average during any grading period be able to keep an automobile at Davidson so long as that average is maintained at subsequent grading periods. Arrangements would be necessary to keep these automobiles from taxing the parking facilities used by upperclassmen.

7. We recommend that the College provide regular bus transportation to main locations in Charlotte on Saturday evenings and on other occasions when the need exists.

8. We recommend that all national Greek letter social fraternities give official satisfaction that all Davidson students working toward a degree are eligible for initiation, and that any fraternity failing to provide such satisfaction by September 1, 1966, be removed from the campus.

9. We recommend that the Student Council authorize a standing Social Life Evaluation Committee, representing a cross section of the student body, with representatives from the staff and faculty, to continue the work of this present Committee, to evaluate the progress toward the realization of the proposal, and to recommend whatever further implementation of these recommendations seems necessary. In the interests of continuity, this Committee suggests that its present members be invited to serve on the succeeding Committee if they are present at the College during the next academic year.

CONCLUSION

In dealing with the fraternity system we have been aware of the fact that the attachment of many alumni and students to the fraternities as they are now constituted is sincere and deep. Indeed it is for this reason that we have felt the proposal simply to abolish fraternities unwarranted, for the fraternities have served the College well in many ways for many years. Our belief that a fundamental realignment of campus social structures is desirable is based on the conviction that such a step is in accord with the continued realization of the goals of the College. Many will feel that Davidson will not be the same with the social structure we envision. Yet, change in the best interests of the purposes and educational program of the College will, we believe, receive the warm support of the vast majority of students, staff, and alumni, even as they have supported changes and progress in the spheres of their own activities. In offering our criticisms of the present social system at Davidson, we would make clear that it is not our desire to make a bad Davidson good, but to make a good Davidson better. With all others of good will, we would see the College move according to its “vision of excellence in the field of Christian higher education.”

Quartet Presents Minority Statement

A MINORITY REPORT

We, the undersigned members of the Fraternity Evaluation Committee, agree in many ways with the report of the committee. We agree with the immediate recommendations and wish to emphasize our support for these measures. Our primary disagreement with the committee report is on the proposed solution, for though it is a possible solution with a great deal to recommend it, we do not feel that it offers the best possible approach given the system that exists at present. We are anxious that drastic and permanent changes in the present system not be made until more moderate reform is tried. Therefore, we urge the adoption of the immediate proposals without a commitment to the goals of the proposed solution.

Though we recognize that there are many problems with the present system, we are not convinced that the cause is fraternities, per se. In our opinion, fraternities are neither necessarily nor entirely bad, and since constructive changes are possible, opportunities for such changes should be offered. It appears to us that the major shortcomings of our present system stem from two basic conditions:

1. At present, the fraternity system dominates, with college support, many aspects of campus life. As a consequence, few alternatives to the system are available to students. This domination is evident in the focusing of campus attention on “rush week” at the beginning of the school year, the dependence of the campus on IFC for the organization of major concerts and dances, and the absence of small-group eating and social facilities for those not in fraternities.

2. Certain characteristics of the fraternities themselves work to the detriment of students within the system and without. In particular, their restrictive membership practices automatically reject certain Davidson students on the basis of race or religion in contradiction to the conviction expressed by faculty action of the past year.

If this analysis is correct, it may be unnecessary to eliminate fraternities or to change their functions in the drastic ways proposed in the committee report. The effort should be made to reduce the importance of fraternities and to eliminate their discriminatory practices. The immediate recommendations take large steps in these directions. Within the next year it may become apparent that further changes are needed; if so, the continuing committee will be in a better position to judge this than we are at this time. We feel that too detailed a structuring of the steps to be taken a year or so from now is premature.

In attaching a proposed solution, we offer a possibility not presented in the committee report. This proposal should not be decided upon now as the final solution, but rather should be kept before the continuing evaluation committee for further consideration. We feel that steps taken in the direction of this proposal are more feasible and desirable in light of the present social facilities and situation than are the radical steps outlined in the committee report.

Proposed Solution:

1. Each freshman class will eat together as a unit but without any formal relationship to the social organizations on campus. We also urge that a social program be set up for freshmen and that intramural competition be organized around dormitory divisions.

2. Any group desiring to form an eating club, with membership requirements being nondiscriminatory as to race and religion, and an invitation for membership requiring approval of no more than one-half of the members shall be allowed to do so. The college would be responsible for providing such a group with facilities comparable to those enjoyed by other social organizations.

3. All national fraternities shall neither rush nor pledge any member of a freshman class. Eating clubs organized as outlined in No. 2 shall be allowed to rush and board any freshman having a 1.0 average for the previous semester. (This would allow eating clubs to take second semester freshmen having a 1.0).

4. All social organizations must sign a statement that they do not officially discriminate as to race or religion in the selection of their members. All national fraternities must submit a statement signed by their national president to this effect. Such statement will be required prior to September 1, 1966.

5. Campus-wide social events shall be planned by a Social Council, representing fraternities, eating clubs, independents, and freshmen. All students would contribute to the budget of said council through a social fee assessed by the college.

6. No social organization having less than 40 members for two consecutive semesters shall be allowed to occupy a house on Patterson Court.

7. Lingle Manor shall continue to operate with open membership. Freshmen may affiliate at the end of the first semester. Lingle Manor should be given boarding facilities as soon as financially feasible.

8. Realizing that sophomore rush presents unique problems, we recommend the IFC draw up rules allowing maximum contact between freshmen and upperclassmen, but minimum opportunity for rushing.

We urge the fraternities to be forward-looking, hoping that they will realize that this proposal is not aimed at the elimination of a fraternity system, but rather the creation of a more equitable social system at Davidson. While the proposals offered in this report involve radical changes in the current social system, we feel that the creation of a system of national fraternities and competitive eating clubs will make Davidson more acceptable to prospective students, alleviate many of the artificial barriers that now exist, and in general provide a social system that serves the needs of the whole student body.

William T. Council
John D. Kelton
Arthur Ross III
Will H. Terry