FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

In action on the diamond this week, the Wildcats fared much better than usual. Saturday they succumbed in both games of a doubleheader at VMI, but on Tuesday, they buried the Crusaders of Belmont Abbey under an onslaught of eighteen hits, winning 16-4.

In the first game at Lexington, the score was VMI 1, Davidson 0. The ‘Cats ended the game with no runs on 1 hit, no errors, and four men left on base. In the second game, the Keydets again outscored the Wildcats, this time 3-1. The ‘Cats scored first in the top of the first inning. Jim Hyder walked, went to second on a wild pitch, to third on a fielder’s choice, and came home on another wild pitch. VMI came right back in the bottom of the first when Marlin Sweigart walked and Bill Loughridge drilled a home run. Their other run came in the fifth when Reuben Terry singled, driving in Robin Porter. The ‘Cats had 1 run on 2 hits but had 4 costly errors.

Tuesday the Wildcats were back home playing Belmont Abbey. Dick Snyder was credited with the win but he was helped by Buddy Durham who came in after five innings.

Turner Sets Record In Thinclad Triumph
By TUCKER LAXTON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Highlighting a track victory over Wake Forest, Alan Turner ran the 100-yard dash in 9.5 seconds last Saturday, eclipsing the old school record of 9.6 set in 1929 by John Curry. Equally as impressive as Turner’s record was Davidson’s 72-69 victory over Wake Forest, a school which subsidizes their track program. Track coach Heath Whittle pointed out that Davidson has not lost a dual track meet this year, having lost only to East Tennessee State in the Davidson Relays. Their won-lost record now stands at 5-1.

Ronnie Reese lacked only .1 of a second to set another school record, the 880. He ran it in 1:57.3. Denny Phillips ran his best mile of the year, finishing first in a time of 4:23.3. In other events, John Fa and Jim Wallace teamed to take first and second respectively in the discus. Lou Hill picked up two seconds and a third in the hurdles and the triple jump, while Dave Brown garnered thirds in the high jump and broad jump, and a second in the pole vault.

Davidson journeys to St. Andrews this Saturday where they will be running on a new grass-tex track. Commenting on that meet, Coach Whittle said, “I wouldn’t be surprised if Reese or Phillips set school records down there.” The Southern Conference track meet will be held at Furman next Friday and Saturday.

E’s, SPE’s Top IMAC; Pikas Move To Third
By LARRY NORFLEET
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Yesterday afternoon’s IMAC action saw the SAE’s trounce the KA’s 11-3 to pull even with the Sig Eps in a tie for first place while the Pikas beat the KA’s 11-6 and Phi Delts 17-14 to move into third.

In the Fiji-Phi Delt game, the Gams were leading after 3 2-3 innings when the Delts exploded. They knocked 7 men around the bases with the help of 4 errors by the Phi Gams before the side was retired. The Phi Delt lead held as the Phi Gams could not close the gap, and the final score stood 9-7. “We lost because of our ‘tight defense’ in the 3rd inning,” quipped Phi Gam first baseman Bengie Goodman somewhat sarcastically.

The Sigma Chis, strong in the first inning, came on to stomp the Phi Gams 12-8. Fiji hurler Steve Bunch gave up seven runs to the Chis in the first inning to put the game on ice. “Our all-round consistent hitting rather than any outstanding power hitter brought the game around for us," beamed Sigma Chi right fielder, Bruce Weihe.

In one of the more decisive games of the week, the Pikas rallied to edge the slightly-favored Phi Delts 17-14. The Pikas were behind 10-6 in the fourth inning when they got hot behind power hitting to score eight runs and go ahead 14-10. Larry Outlaw allowed the Phi Delts to pick up three more runs while the Pikas matched them with three of their own. Johnny Gresham upped his batting average with a grand-slam and six RBIs while teammate Tom White countered with a three-run homer of his own. Brady Dickson, manager of the Pikas, in commenting on their playing, said, “All in all we played pretty good, and our defense was better than usual.”

Other games of the week saw...

By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

On the eve of next Monday’s starting date for the Southern Conference Tournament, Duke University's netmen snapped the Wildcat tennis players’ 15-game winning streak Tuesday with a 5-4 victory over the visitors. The defeat, Davidson’s second of the season, followed a 9-0 b of Wake Forest by the netters last Saturday and leaves Davidson with a 20-2 record.

Commented Coach Harry Fogleman, “We didn't lose a set against Wake Forest, and we played a good match, especially in the doubles; I was really well pleased with that match. However, I don't think we played as well against Duke as against Wake Forest. I guess you could say we had a bad day, that's all; it was a tough match to lose. It was just that the same shots that have been going in all year long failed to go in for us Tuesday. For example, Council's timing was off just a little and as a result, he didn't play his usual game. Esmond Phelps ran into some trouble that neither he nor anyone else can really explain; he started playing wonderfully and was really doing fine, but then all of a sudden he just couldn't hit the court."

Fogleman continued by noting that Peter Parrott lost his first match of the season Tuesday, breaking his 19-0 record, but pointed out that he was defeated by the Duke player who has the Blue Devils’ best won-lost record. “As far as the doubles matches went, we played pretty well,” lamented Fogleman, “but it was the singles that turned the tide. We lost three three-setters in the singles, and winning any one of them would have changed the margin to 5-4 our way.”

The varsity Wildcats have a contest with VMI tomorrow, the last match of the season before the Southern Conference Tournament Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. Teams will arrive Sunday for the meet and drawings for tournament positions will be made that afternoon before a dinner and business meeting of Southern Conference tennis coaches that night. Singles matches will...be played in the mornings and doubles matches in the afternoons, with the finals in each classification being held on Wednesday, May 12. “As far as the doubles are concerned,” predicted Fogleman, “I think Davidson's Fred Hetzel and Don Davidson will have the best chances to win. Of course, so much in the tournament depends on the drawings and the seedings that I really couldn't make any definite predictions until after the drawings on Sunday."

NO COURTS
Because conference teams will be arriving and practicing, no courts will be available for student play Sunday afternoon. Conference rules require that each team be permitted at least two hours’ practice on the host school’s courts. In addition, all tennis courts will be used during the conference tournament Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday (May 10-12).

Yesterday's NBA annual basketball draft saw the San Francisco Warriors choose Fred Hetzel and Don Davidson. The drafting of Hetzel was a surprise to no one. San Francisco got the first two choices after three territorial picks had been made. The Warriors chose Hetzel first and Rick Barry of Miami second. “It’s quite an honor to be chosen so high and I'm particularly pleased that the Warriors also drafted Rick. I know him well and would enjoy playing on the same team with him." So far Hetzel has not agreed to any contract, nor has he set a certain sum of money he would have to receive to accept a contract. “Any negotiations will have to come from the Warriors. I don’t think there's any glory to be got hustling ten out of pro basketball but I would like to accept the challenge there.”

Unlike Hetzel's drafting, the Boston Celtics' fifth-round pick of Don Davidson was a surprise to most fans, and also to Davidson himself. “It was a real surprise to me. I hadn’t expected it at all," Davidson reported. Davidson was undecided as to his next step. “There's really not much for me to do but sit back and wait for them to contact me.”

The Davidson golf team swept a three-way match with West Virginia and George Washington Monday at Hot Springs, Va., site of the upcoming Southern Conference golf tournament. Sparked by Doug McKeever's performance, Davidson dropped the Mountaineers 12-9 and the Colonials 13-8. Dr. Tom Scott, golf mentor, sees Davidson as the team to beat in the tournament, with VPI as the closest challenger. “We have a 50-50 chance, but it's going to be tough — a real fight. McKeever has an excellent chance to be the conference medalist."

Through the regular season, the ‘Cats compiled a 6-0 record against Southern Conference foes, including a 10½-7½ victory over VPI on April 12. Only 1.3 strokes separate the ‘Cat linksmen's average scores: McKeever 78.5, Joe Jelks 78.8, George Brewer 79.2, Champ Covington 79.4, Bill Ross 79.7, and Mackey McClelland 79.8. VPI won Virginia's state tournament last month “by 25 or 30 shots,” according to Dr. Scott, beating conference teams West Virginia, VMI, Richmond, and William and Mary. “The Cascades course at Hot Springs is a tough and hilly mountain course. It has many parallel water hazards which are troublesome,” said Dr. Scott concerning the tournament site. Davidson has won the Southern Conference golf championship twice. In 1958 the ‘Cats shared the title with George Washington, and in 1960 they took all the marbles.

Sailors Rate High In Recent Regatta
The consistently improving Davidson sailors swamped USC, UNC, and The Citadel to finish a close second in the Duke Spring Invitational Regatta last weekend. Sailing in winds from a dead calm to a moderate gale, Davidson and Duke battled down to the final race of the ten-race series at Kerr Lake with no more than 3 points separating them at any time. Sailing the ‘A’ division for Davidson were Wic Cooney, skipper, and Tommy Hunter, crew, who scored 21 points with a 2-2-3-4-3 series. Chip Robertson, skipper, and Tee Thompson, crew, sailed the speedy JET-14 sloops almost flawlessly in the ‘B’ division to amass 29 points with finishes of 2-1-1-1-1. Final results were: Duke, 52; Davidson, 50; South Carolina, 36; North Carolina, 32; and The Citadel, 30. The Sailors, who in their first season have progressed from last place at Old Dominion to recent seconds at The Citadel and Duke, participate in South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association regionals this weekend at Lake Murray, South Carolina, near Columbia.

The intramural tennis tournament started its double eliminations this week. In the first round, impressive victories were netted by the Kappa Sigs, the SAE’s, and the Sigma Chi's. IMAC volleyball makes its debut next week with the fraternities getting their teams lined up this weekend.

VERY UNOFFICIAL IMAC STANDINGS
ATO 7-1
Pika 6-1
Phi Delt 5-2
Beta 5-2
Phi Gam 4-3
Kappa Sig 4-3

In the not too distant future, busy students will get facts from campus information banks — knowledge stored in computers — via their dormitory room phones. For example, a question about Chinese 1 could be asked by dial or push buttons any time of the day or night, and a digital input computer would give a voice answer. Students will also be able to telephone an engineering problem into a computer which will send a diagrammed answer back to a facsimile unit in a dormitory study center. Or, a request for information will be phoned into a repository — a library, for instance — where the information will be quickly retrieved from microfilm storage and sent to the student. These are just some of the innovations that will put telephone and related services to new uses on the campus of tomorrow. And, when the class of 1975 graduates, it will find in homes and businesses a whole new world of communications — the development of which is underway today in the Bell System. Our continuing research helps us to our goal of making excellent communications of all kinds available to our customers.