Che BDavidsontan
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp Editor-in-Chief
PAGE TWO IRVINE WELLING Business Manager
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Davidson's Honor

We are deeply disturbed over the seemingly rash criticism of the Davidson honor system and, in particular, the Honor Court
that has arisen this week following the most recent decision of the court. Believing that the previously accepted practice of
treating specific cases of the court as confidential matter is worthwhile, we would prefer to withhold lengthy comment on this
specific case. Yet, the recent charges that have been leveled at the Davidson honor system should not remain aloof, although
they hardly deserve any answer. It is indeed healthy that honest criticism be a part of any academic community; however,
the sudden reaction to the system immediately after one specific case seems rather giddy.

The 40-year-old system has been a source of self-respect for many students. It has undoubtedly grown stronger through the years
and rests in very capable hands among the 12 members of the court today. Each case that the Honor Court
handles has its own unique background and implications. The most recent one is no exception. It is unusual that the
court must convene on another campus as it did earlier this week in order to hear the case involving a
Davidson student. Nevertheless, distance or location should not preclude the complete airing of testimony. Because the witnesses involved were students
at another school, we feel that the court was justified in conducting their proceedings away from the Davidson campus.

The personality of the student in this case has most likely prompted the discussion that has arisen this week. Yet,
the honor system would not function properly at all if its code of regulations did not apply equally to each
student. We have the utmost respect for the integrity of Davidson’s 12-man court. The decision in this case, as in
every instance, was reached after solid testimony was heard, we feel sure. Nevertheless, the court could have prevented some needless
questions from arising by a more tactful presentation of some of the details of the specific case. Announcing the decision
of the court before the appeal to a faculty committee had been heard was out of order, in respect to
the accused and to an unprejudiced hearing by the committee. Also, the court broke precedence by posting an announcement of
its decision on dormitory bulletin boards. The typewritten notices stating the bare facts of this case seemed for many students
to indicate a rather unusual nature in this instance.

We do not hold the system or the court in sacred trust. Yet, it should be open to a sincere
concern and awareness of the entire student body at all times. But the air of emotionalism and the foolish and
rash statements that have characterized much of the discussion this week is no way to carry on a serious evaluation
of any program. Students who harbor serious questions about the honor system here, or about any establishment on the Davidson
campus for that matter, would do well to present their opinions in and through the proper channels—in the forum of
THE DAVIDSONIAN or to the Student Council—instead of filling the air with damaging generalities and smearing charges.

‘DREGS OF SOCIETY’

National Press Attacks Anti-War Demonstrators

The anti-Viet Nam demonstrations that provided so much headline and television fodder over the weekend have no potential to change
American policy, but they add visibly to the pain of pursuing it... When all is said and done a U.
S. Commitment anywhere — and especially in Viet Nam—from which there was no active dissent would be more ominous than
what we have. It would be an indication of dangerous callousness if the incidental bombing of women and children, the
obliteration of whole villages, did not bring a few public consciences to the breaking point. . . . Short of
total and undiscriminating pacifism, short of the condemnation of all violence, the demonstrators — in their silence about the “crimes”
of the Viet Cong — have no real case.
—Greensboro Daily News

* * *

It must be stressed that, however damaging, the peacemongering of the past weekend represented the view of a small minority.
At the University of Chicago, for example, only 200 of 8,000 students turned out for a “teach-in.” Only 100 of
14,000 students at the University of Colorado showed up for a “peace parade.” And at the University of Michigan, national
headquarters for the demonstrations, a scant 300 of 32,000 students participated in a “peace vigil,” while 2,057 students there signed
a 32-foot-long telegram to the President in support of U. S. policies in Viet Nam. ... Still, Americans have every
right to be shocked that nearly 100,000 pacifists, beatniks, dedicated Communists, and screwballs, along with some simply misguided youths, could
be mustered for the weekend demonstrations. Although the dregs of society, of whatever faction and however outnumbered or wrongheaded, have
a right to protest and oppose the policies of their government, those behind the weekend spectacle have exceeded the tolerable
limits of free speech and dissent.
—Richmond Times-Dispatch

* * *

The anti-war demonstrators would certainly exhibit a great sense of realism if they addressed their calls for peace to the
Communist capitals and not solely to Washington. But any blunderbuss effort to suppress the demonstrations and to depict all the
leaders as Communist wreckers will be to help invest them with the armor of martyrdom so many of the dissenters
plainly desire. It will also raise questions about the consistency of American dedication to the very principles of democracy and
freedom which the United States seeks to champion around the world.
—The New York Times

* * *

(The demonstrators) may well have reached their high-water mark even this past weekend when perhaps as many as 100,000 turned
out in several cities to follow their leaders, wave their placards and shout their slogans. But 10,000 nitwits out of
nearly 200 million people constitute a tiny minority, and the people of this country know it. The danger is that
the men in Hanoi and Peking will not understand this. They may misread the demonstrations as meaning our government’s policy
in Viet Nam is being undermined at home, and, if so, they can be expected to hang on and prolong
the war.
—The (Washington, D. C.) Evening Star

* * *

The real motivations of demonstrators and of the anti-draft forces is not entirely clear. The draft system is inequitable in
a number of respects and should be reformed. But practically all those who are burning draft cards seem to be
college youths who benefit most from loopholes in the system. ... The demonstrators did not contribute to debate over Viet
Nam. They only made rational debate more difficult. And they certainly have not brought peace any closer in Viet Nam.
—Winston-Salem Journal

* * *

The demonstrations against the U. S. role in South Viet Nam remind us once again what a varied collection of
nuts can crawl out of the woodwork at any given time in this country. ... The demonstrators are betraying their
country and keeping faith with the enemy whether or not the letter of the law agrees. They have been far
too charitably treated because of the great principle in this country that a man has a right to speak his
mind. They should be treated with the greatest contempt.
—The Atlanta Journal

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Childs Advises Critics: ‘Study Cause Of Violence’

Dear Editor:

I object to the statement in last week's unsigned editorial, “A Recent Trend,” that I misstated objective fact. Since my
letter was entirely evaluative and contained no designated statements: I do not think I can be charged with misstating facts.
Your suggestions that 1) I am a flaming radical and 2) that I wrote the letter to defend my roommate
say something about the ability of your editors to read carefully and critically, but they do not say anything about
my letter or the riots in Watts. Contrary to your view that I should not have dismissed the arguments of
Will Herberg, I feel that I am both entitled to do so as well as obligated to do so. The
fact that Mr. Herberg holds King’s views to be the cause of the Los Angeles riots does not prove that
they were the cause, and Mr. Clark's agreement merely weakens the argument in my opinion. First, I understood King's position
to be in support of breaking thelaw only when the law is considered unjust and the “law breaker” is willing
to take the consequence of his action. In no case do I remember that violence was approved or advocated. Secondly,
anyone who was at all familiar with the riots in California would know that the rioters not only rejected the
leadership of King, but also hooted him and the advocates of his views as “Uncle Toms.” I deplore violence in
any form, but as I suggested before, the basic cause of the violence (the predicament of the Negro in our
society) must be our real concern.

Ken Childs
Davidson College

Associate Editors ............. RUFUS ADAIR Graham

Dear Editor:

Originally, I had not planned to write an exegesis of my own letter, but reactions of dismay and disgust cannot
be ignored. The purpose was to lift the context of discourse from the emotional clichés in which it is customarily
phrased. What I described as a “dialogue” was in part a caricature of anti-fraternity ‘zealots,’ the point being that fraternities
alone are not responsible for the charges of anti-intellectualism, etc. The Admissions Committee, for example, may be even more responsible.
Fraternities are symptomatic of “ossified Davidsonians,” of the traditions that are often an impasse for logical analysis. Further, the “atypical”
character of colleges as opposed to that of “reality” raises significant questions: the interrelationship of society, Davidson College, and social
fraternities. Commager's words present an old, but I think important ideal — what might loosely be termed the relativity of
ideas. Despite the fact that the second part of the quotation applies specifically to public institutions, it has implicative force
for the nature of Davidson's church affiliation. That social groups and their attendant “status discrimination” will exist almost inevitably is
not challenged; that the peculiar Greek-letter corollary is necessary or even desirable is debatable. I applaud both the purpose and
the efforts of the Social Life Evaluation Committee. How this committee defines the goals of Davidson College will be extremely
interesting.

Stephen A. Graham
Davidson College

Dear Editor:

This week I received a bill for $45.00 from the college as a penalty for achieving, in this case by
taking three semester hours more than the prescribed maximum set by the college. Just assuming for a moment that I
was wrong in my reasoning that taking extra hours was not a cause for extra charges, the conditions of the
assessment are more than somewhat unfair. Following traditional precedents, the college made no information available to returning students concerning changes
in costs of various services of the college. This information was contained in both the catalogue and the Wildcat Handbook,
but few upperclassmen have access to either of these prior to the first day of school. No communication was considered
necessary, even though laundry fees, board fees, and other incidentals were raised, not to mention that the “normal load” restriction
was lowered from eighteen to sixteen hours. This last means that a large percentage of the student body is forced
to pay fifteen dollars per hour for the privilege of working harder and sacrificing leisure time. The logic of the
extra charge does not completely escape me: I am certain that, were there no restrictions, mobs of students seeking true
knowledge in staggering quantities would throng into overcrowded classrooms — but I do think that the least that could be
done is to notify students of changes in regulations and charges before they return to school.

Charles A. Edwards
Davidson College

Assistant Copy Editors ............ BOB VANCE, DICK SPENCER, TOM CRAIG
Sports Editor .............. BILL BRIGGS, MICHAEL HARRINGTON
Assistant Sports Editor .......... ARCH McCALLUM
Assistant Editors .......... BILL AITKEN
Photography Editor .......... TOM THEL, DONALD DAVIS
Photographer .......... CHIP PURVIS
Managing Editors .......... LOUIS LESESNE
Cartoonists .......... LOU HILL, PAUL MARION, JACK LINGLE
Assistant Managing Editor .......... TOM COOK
Assistant Business Manager ..........
News Editor .......... SAM BOYTE, BOB CAMERON
Feature Editor .......... HEYWARD CARTER
Advertising Manager .......... BILL WATSON
Copy Editor .......... CHRIS HAWK
Circulation Manager .......... JOHN VISER

Contributors This Week: Yates Faison, K. D. Weeks, Jim Marrow, Doug Crisp, Bob Reid, Mike Mooty, Larry Norfleet, Kern Parker,
Cameron Ferguson, Carter Fussell, Grey Pash, Mike Powell, Jimmy Cooley, John Williams, Bill Graham, Rob Powell, Robbie Hooker, Mason Stephenson,
Frank Fleming, Ted Winter, Mike May, Allen Webb, Lindsay Davis, Bob Schofield, Dick Richards, Charles McEwen.

THE DAVIDSONIAN is published by the students of Davidson College weekly during the school year except examination periods and holidays.
Subscription rate: $4.00 per year (if billed, $4.50). Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as
second class matter at Davidson, N. C.

Cat O' Nine Tails
By MICHAEL L. HARRINGTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Hued reddish-orange and sometimes yellow, the leaves have just started changing here at Davidson because hazy Indian summer was long
with us this year. Homecoming '65: for the '69ers, their first college weekend — for the seniors, the last Homecoming
as we know them. But we are still here. And while the good times are not long, they are not
gone.

Without the dance-weekends there is something sterile in this campus, in straight academics minus participation. We read in epistemology and
microbiology and the functions of a complex variable, there is Chaucer and Tillich and Commager, and for a while these
words are alive and we participate in them. But their words will call up still deeper urges, they cannot hold
and we cannot explain. So it is time to leave only the classes for a while. And we point to
our books and our papers and our fifteen class hours per week to ask: Is our education not something more
than this?

Have our professors forgotten? What it was like to leap slightly drunk among piles of crisp scarlet leaves and to
hold weird dialogues beside Lake Norman under a cold moon? How important it once was to date the right girl
and to get the expensive liquor and to have the best combo-party at a camp lodge, you and your friends?
Our professors have their wives and families. Do their wives remember, did they know? How important it was for the
girl to have her date smile at her, how secretly proud she was to come to a Davidson weekend? How
great she felt in leaving her silly school rules and home mores for a while — how she could laugh
and dance and maybe even get a little high, if not on the drinks then on the music and the
restless moods? These men — our fathers, our professors, our older friends — have they forgotten what it was like
to bounce around with those unspeakable moods of ecstasy and despair? How sometimes the single instant of intimacy or insight
was worth all the future shot to hell? These older ones, do they realize how necessary is this “foolishness” if
we are to rebuild their torn-up world?

Somewhere outside Davidson a GI screams and claws at his belly in the shock of a painful death from a
jungle ambush. Americans, even Davidson men, die in sleek silver planes that become their coffins. And the people they die
for cry with unimaginable hunger and pain and disease, while the arrogant pickets parade in our streets. And even next
door across the tracks, there are those men and those women whose broken spirits and services we exploit. And there
is even more hate and fear and loneliness until I wonder if we can ever be clean and guiltless again.
This is the world we have made and yet did not make. How different it is from the campus, how
necessary it is that we have a taste of honey, lest we forget.

But there will be parties and a football team that is finally winning and concerts and all things that make
a dance weekend really great. There is all this and more in the wild swirling tangle of moods that is
a Davidson weekend.

How will you who are dates remember us? We will remember you: Remember the cute way you laughed at our
self-conscious jokes, remember the skilled or clumsy ways you danced, you talked, you put us at ease. Outside the parties
in the sharp night air, remember the way you stroked our hair and looked off across the water as we
babbled about the feelings of eternity, the strong clear eyes that drank in all the wildness and excitement that was
our dance weekend. We will remember you — whether or not we see you again. This was one of those
moments when time stopped and you shared for that moment this part of our world, Davidson and Homecoming ’65.

B.C. HAVE. GOT A FAST CURVE?
