PAGE SIX

Town Cracks Down On Traffic Infractions
By LOUIS LESESNE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Pressure from several directions has forced the Town of Davidson to tighten down on traffic violations, according to Mayor F.
L. Jackson Sr. As part of the campaign for traffic safety, the town added to its police force about two
months ago a third patrolman who has been instructed to be particularly alert for minor traffic infractions.

Jackson noted that since Jan. 1, the number of citations issued has increased greatly, with students receiving the greater part
of the rise. For the most common violation, failure to observe a stop sign or traffic light, students received more
than two-thirds of the citations. Reported Jackson, “Local citizens have been complaining to the Davidson Board of Commissioners about alleged
violations, and the commissioners were forced to take action.” He noted that one area coming under an unusually heavy amount
of fire is North Main Street.

In addition to public complaints, the occurrence of several near accidents also prompted the Commissioners to tighten up on traffic
law enforcement. Jackson recalled, “When I came back to Davidson in 1913, the mayor referred to ‘that damn college.’ Since
then I have seen a great change of attitude so there is now a wonderful feeling of cooperation between town
and college.” He emphasized that the current move to tighten up on traffic violations should be no reason to cause
hard feelings between town and college. Jackson commented that there has been a national campaign to cut down traffic accidents,
and Davidson is merely following through on this move.

Thieves’ Carnival To Show Tomorrow

The last presentation of the farcical comedy, Thieves’ Carnival, will be held tomorrow, at 3 p.m. The farce by Jean
Anouilh, a contemporary French playwright, takes place on the French Riviera, and is filled with masquerades, mistaken identities, and hilarious
situations. The comedy revolves around three thieves, who enter the villa of Lady Hurf, a bored English aristocrat ready for
adventure, for the purpose of robbing her of her riches.

Vespers
By TIM KIMREY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Some said, “Disgusting!” Others hissed as the participants left the chancel. One remarked, “The best music of the whole dance-weekend.”
Many were quite appreciative and somewhat intrigued. Only a few were able to worship. The occasion was a special World
Student Day of Prayer vesper service last Sunday — an experiment in jazz worship.

Perhaps it is not proper to “review” a worship service, but the fact that Sunday evening’s service marked such a
departure from the conventional cliche marathon impels us to offer a comment. In the first place, the entire service was
admirably presented; we did not feel that we were being deliberately shocked, nor did the leaders and participants show any
insincerity in what they were doing. There was a definite seriousness in their method, and the extent to which this
was related to the congregation to a large degree determined whether those present were worshippers or spectators. It was obvious
that many were too distracted by the presence of piano, bass, and drums and the lack of choir, organ, and
sermon to give any attention to the worship of God.

The content of the service was beautifully significant. The existentialist theme of anxiety and despair was poignantly maintained throughout, in
both the music and the readings. For there is hope for a tree, if it be cut down, that it
will sprout again, and that its roots will not cease. Though its root grow old in the earth, and its
stump die in the ground, yet at the scent of water it will bud and put forth branches like a
young plant. But man dies and is laid low; man breathes his last and where is he? We heard the
despairing cry of Job — “Where then is my hope?” — and we sadly marveled at Sid Farrar’s powerful poem,
“Little Fat Girl.” And, despite the overpowering emphasis on death and the meaninglessness of life, there was an occasional waft
of Christian hope in the service, and we were grateful.

Of course, the music made the service effective and beautiful. Farrar’s compositions and the obvious feeling with which he played
them were the major impetus to corporate worship. We were especially impressed with his Prelude, “Soul Cry,” and with the
way he and Rufus Hallmark combined their talents on “Bringing In The Sheaves.” Hallmark’s struggling with the traditional hymn, trying
to make it audible over the modern jazz cacophony from Farrar’s piano was at once haunting and a bit frightening.
It set the tone for the entire service: the old mode of expression in conflict with the new, the melodic
in conflict with the expressionistic.

The only quarrel we had with the entire service was with Howard Cornelson's prayer. A first-person prayer on which the
congregation was supposed to “eavesdrop,” it quickly degenerated into a seemingly pious exposition, instead of a personal cry unto God.

ROTC Changes Result From Cadet Critiques

All three phases of the ROTC program — classroom study, drill, and care of weapons — are affected in changes
brought on by a critique circulated among all ROTC students last week and by decisions for curriculum improvements made by
the department prior to the critique.

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

For the first time at Davidson, MS-1 cadets will engage in field tactics, spending two hours in classroom instruction and
two hours in the field. In the MS-1 section, five different instructors will teach this semester on subjects dealing with
their respective military specialty. Also newly-instituted is the opportunity for MS-1 cadets to fire weapons in order to qualify for
marksmanship, sharpshooter, and expert ratings. The biggest innovation in the MS-2 classroom is the shortening of military history instruction and
more practical maneuvers and tactics. More emphasis on tactical work will also be placed on MS-3's and MS-4's. There will
be a 20-minute instructional talk before each drill at 1:30. NCO school, the MS-3 ten-minute instructional talks, and the MS-4
class in the U.S. in World Affairs will begin at 3:20. Demerits and merits will also be handled in a
different fashion. At the beginning of each class period, the instructor will pass slips so that students can keep abreast
of their drill status. The brigade staff and battalion commanders have also compiled a set number of merits or demerits
that can be given for shoes, brass, general appearance, etc.

A gadget salesman, a one-station radio, a conference with administrators of other schools, talks with Davidson’s exchange students, and seeing
their grandson for the first time were all part of President and Mrs. Grier Martin’s trip to Europe. The three-week
journey to France and Germany netted the Martins a first-hand knowledge of the Junior Year Abroad Program and furnished them
with a few somewhat peculiar and amusing experiences.

The Martins flew to Cannes, on the “warm” French Riviera, where they were greeted with a little less than warm
36-degree temperature. Here they met with administrators and faculty members from colleges and universities all over the United States and
Europe, and heard and discussed the different programs for exchange and travel of those institutions. “Some schools,” said Martin, “offer
not one but several programs similar to ours. Stanford has 10 or 12 of which their students can choose.”cat take
advantage.” After the conference, officially the International Conference on Student Exchange and Travel, the couple traveled to Montpellier with Dr.
Francis Ghigo, Davidson's exchange professor, and his wife.

PECULIAR COMPANIONS

It was on the train that the Martins encountered some peculiar travel companions. They were riding in a compartment that
they shared with at least two other people besides themselves and the Ghigos. One character was a German gadget salesman
who prevailed upon the Martins to take down their bags and show him all the gadgets and contraptions that might
interest him. Then he told them of his plan to manufacture a one-station radio which would broadcast nothing but advertisements.
“The idea was that the advertisers would practically give away the small radios,” said Martin.

“Perhaps the most interesting part of the trip,” said Mrs. Martin, “was the visit with the Pinkertons (Dr. and Mrs.
T. O.) and the Ghigos and the talks with the boys we have over the dormitories,” she added. “And those
in the dormitories think that to room with a foreign boy is a tremendous advantage.” The only drawback in living
in a home or a rooming house would be perhaps the plumbing, which oftentimes is not good. “Or in the
case of a few of the boys who stayed for a while in an old clergyman’s rooming house, which before
had been an orphanage. The old man would not allow them out of the house after nine o'clock when he
would insist on their not making a sound. The boys risked a good shaking if they disobeyed the rules.”

MARTINS BACK FROM EUROPE

John Good is a pre-med major. Martin concluded by saying, “This program is one of the best ways of bettering
understanding between the United States and other countries. We hope, certainly, that we will be able to include either Spain
or Mexico in the program for the students in Spanish. I think the groups next year will have an easier
time because of the trip—we know more about it now.”

THE FUN BEGINS AT

in MS-3 and MS-4 classwork. In order to give students who have fourth period classes more time to eat and
dress, the drill

FRATERNITIES (Continued from Page One)

Furthermore, according to Capt. Charles Partridge, an effort is being made to get more MS I's and MS-2’s into leadership
positions on the drill field. One of the biggest changes is the set-up of the armory schedule. Usual cleaning has
been abolished and been replaced by detail check every other week. “This should limit a cadet’s time at the armory
to fifteen minutes every two weeks—if the cadet will limit himself to cleaning his rifle instead of socializing,” predicts Maj.
R. A. Gill.

THREE PROPOSALS

The three proposed considerations included in the letter which the committee has discussed are a ban on racial discrimination, abolition
of the “black ball” system, and initiation of “total opportunity” or “blanket” bidding which would guarantee every freshman a bid
to a fraternity. Jones stated that the Observer article was correct except for emphasis. He said he was not consulted
about The Observer article until after its appearance; however, he said he was interviewed prior to a remark in Monday’s
Charlotte News.

THE UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH SEWANEE, TENNESSEE

Announces A 1965 SUMMER SESSION FOR MEN AND WOMEN Eight weeks; June 21-August 14 Liberal arts curriculum Forest environment Sewanee
Summer Music Center Student Summer Theatre For the Summer School Bulletin Address the Director of the Summer School

Dalton Takes Over Brigade Command

Cadet Col. Bruce Dalton assumed command of the Davidson College ROTC Brigade for the second semester on Feb. 3. Steve
Davidson, who was first chosen as Brigade Commander, was forced to drop out of the program because of a knee
injury sustained during football season. Dalton succeeds Cadet Col. Jim Ferguson, who served as commander for the first semester.

FREEDOM LIKED

“They liked the extra freedom and the long vacations when they can travel,” Mrs. Martin said. Class attendance is not
required and the students’ grades are based solely on their final examinations (the exchange students must still comply with the
standards set for them by Davidson under the supervision of Drs. Ghigo and Pinkerton). “The boys in the private homes
think that they have it there.” She reported that they all seemed to be very enthusiastic about their life in
Europe.

LAKESIDE INN Fish Camp (Under New Management)

“We are eager to serve the students of Davidson College either individually or in semi-private or private parties.” Highway 115
South: Turn Right just before Fox Drive-in Theater Open Tuesday through Saturday from 5 p.m. on... For reservations: Charlotte 377-2701
— 596-2711

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.
C. Open ‘til 1 a.m. Monday—Friday

The Hub all over the ones who stay in

ALL MAJORS WANTED

Several of the students expressed concern that those eligible for the Program next year thought it open only to language
majors. They were quick to point out that, for example, “just up the road....”

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1965

‘BEAUTIFULLY SIGNIFICANT’

Jazz Gets Hissed, Cheered

that a few realized the significance of this new mode of worship. There were few who were able to worship
completely, simply because most were unaccustomed to all aspects of the service. To many, the service seemed secular and crude.
Well, it is true that there were no flowery cliches, no gushings about the goodness and joys of life, no
inspiring organ music. It was not an exercise in comforting the sick and needy. It was simply a worship service
in which six men told of the depravity and potential meaninglessness of human existence. Indeed, it was a secular service,
in the sense that it was a portrayal of man’s secular life, a recognition by worshipping Christians of all that
is secular in man. And it was recognition of man’s struggle with nonbeing, without the instant damning that has been
so long characteristic of the Christian church. Many of us at Davidson have laid the faith aside, simply because it
has seemingly (or perhaps actually) shown itself to be completely irrelevant, completely out of touch with the world that concerns
us and gives us so much trouble. That is why Sunday’s jazz worship should be greeted with praise. It was
an affirmation that must speak about the world to the world if it is to take the church world into
its fold. To do this it must be in the world. What we saw Sunday gives us hope that the
Christian church, that grand old institution that many of us have given up for dead, will continue to experiment, revamp,
and in general adjust its ear to a world full of human beings so aware of their own lack of
certain knowledge about anything and so lost in an often unadmitted despair that it cannot any longer accept “Jesus loves
me” as a feasible answer.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

GONDOLA RESTAURANT W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

HATTIE’S

For Leisure And Comfort Try Levis in school Greenville, S. C. TRIMCUTS And Gant Shirts From Rush Wilson Ltd. Davidson,
N.C.

BATISTE OXFORD HUGGER

Cool, crisp batiste oxford in a short sleeved button-down with trim tape: it makes a handsome shirt for summer wearing.
