PAGE SIX

By BOB HOLLADAY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

With the end drawing near to his first year as manager of the Student Store, Peter Nicholls reviewed for THE DAVIDSONIAN some of the additions and changes that had been made in the store’s operations.

The biggest change was the incorporation into one unit of the previously-separated textbook and Knovel Knook lines. Textbooks are now available throughout the year at regular store hours; earlier they could be bought easily only at the beginning of the semester during limited hours of the day.

DISCOUNT

At the first of the school year, students observed that the 10 percent discount they had received earlier for textbooks no longer existed. The student council at one point studied the matter. Nicholls explained that the discount had been a two-year experiment by the college. “The new facilities present an extra cost to the college. Now they have to light the store, heat it, and staff it—and my salary is a full-time salary. With this in mind, they took the 10 percent off to see how it would work out. There was nothing definite about whether they would or wouldn't go back.

ADJUSTMENT

In July after the profits and losses of the year have been determined, they can decide whether they’ll be able to make any adjustment in the sale of texts.” Robert A. Currie, business manager of the college, affirmed the substance of Nicholls’ remarks. “We'd like for the student to pay less for books if the operation makes that possible.” He noted that in the last few years, profits from the book stores have been directed into the general operations fund of the college, rather than into the scholarship fund as before. The ambition of the college is to balance services to the students and faculty with the costs of these services, hoping the store can pay its own way.

AUTONOMOUS

Nicholls is fairly autonomous in his control of the store’s business. Within reason, he says, “I can put any mark-up I want on an item. A lot of the items in the paper section are marked lower than they would be in other schools. This is a policy we’ve had here for some time before I came, which I would not plan to change,” he said. “Eventually we hope to get lower prices on the necessities, with a regular mark-up on luxury items.”

The store served as host three weeks ago to a Doubleday Faculty Book Fair. “We had in 630 books. 66 were distributed to the faculty and the faculty of North High. We sold about 290, and we have about 100 on order.” Running concurrently was a half-price sale on selected Harper paperbacks. “We had about 125-150 books from Harper. I counted Monday, and we have about 45 of these left.”

Responding to the opinion of motorbike owners who have stated that motorbikes on the Davidson campus proper would not create a nuisance, the office of the Dean of Students has announced changes in the current policy of allowing no motorcycles on campus. Bob Jones, Assistant Dean of Students, emphasizes that the Traffic Committee is lifting the restrictions on a trial basis only, and that a decision will have to be made with regard to the next academic year. The bikes are now being kept in Alex Bernhardt’s yard, and it was Bernhardt who instigated a movement in favor of the policy change. The statement of the Dean's office is as follows: The prohibition of motorbikes is lifted for the remainder of the current semester with the following restrictions: (a) This is for a trial period.

The Davidson College Wind Ensemble will present lawn concerts May 9. The 32-member group, under the direction of Dr. Grier N. Williams, will present many selections which have been successful this year. The programs will include several works which were performed on tour, such as “Zampa Overture.” In addition, the ensemble will present selections from both “My Fair Lady” and “The Sound of Music” which will be performed at the summer theatre.

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Why do riots rage in Latin American student communities? Why do Americans have such a poor image south of the border? What can be done to correct this image? These are all questions which nine students in the Project for the Americas hope to answer in their visit to Ecuador next summer. They are scheduled to leave June 10 for a two-month trip, traveling throughout the country, and returning Aug. 10.

MIDDLE CLASS

Fred Ehlers, originator and leader of PRAM, outlined the general purpose of the expedition during Wednesday night's Open End. “We are aiming,” he said, “for the middle class in Latin America. They have had the least contact with people from the United States." He explained that the U.S. Government has made contact only with the upper crust of Latin American societies, the leaders. The Peace Corps is doing a fine job, but only for the lowest class. This leaves the large middle class no means of knowing the United States except what they read and see, such as the Selma crisis. “Therefore,” continued Ehlers, “we are going to live entirely within the middle class, the students and small businessmen and their families.” He pointed out that the riots which spring up throughout Latin America against the United States are started by and composed of middle-class people. “I have changed my mind about the United States since coming here and talking and living with students,” he added.

STUDENTS

Ehlers then introduced the party of students who are to make the trip to Ecuador with him this summer. They are B. A. Aitken, Doug Pratt, David Walker, Glenn Withrow, and Erskine Sproul, all of Davidson. The four girls from schools in this area are Betty Craig and Jan Galloway of Charlotte College, Judy Learned of Queens College, and Diane Furr of Sacred Heart.

When the floor was opened to questions, and the usual silence passed, the forever volatile subject of integration arose. Danish Richardson Scholar Kurt Pederson asked why the group did not have a Negro. Ehlers stepped in to explain that the students at J. C. Smith had been invited to join and were wanted very much, but that their minds were occupied with the integration problem in this country. He added that the presence of a Negro with the group would have done a great deal of good, since the only ones seen in Latin America are either entertainers or athletes.

INDIVIDUALS

Finally, there was displayed an interest in what the individual member of the Project wished to get out of his trip. The infamous David Walker, renowned for his actions in getting to know people in Europe and Canada, answered, “My interests are social and cultural. I want to...

NEW FACULTY
(Continued From Page One)

...and a PhD from the University of Basel, magna cum laude. Dr. Wayland J. Hayes has been appointed Visiting Distinguished Professor of Sociology for the first semester 1965-1966. Dr. Hayes holds his BS degree from the University of Virginia, and his MA and PhD from Columbia University. He has taught at Vanderbilt University since 1928 and is now Professor Emeritus. Dr. Hayes is the author of several books and of numerous articles and is a past president of the Southern Sociological Society. Dr. Hayes will teach special courses in American Social Organizations (Sociology 61) and in Public Opinion (Sociology 62).

Members of the faculty who will be returning in the coming year will include Dr. Francis Ghigo and Dr. T. O. Pinkerton who accompanied the group of students from Davidson participating in the Junior Year Abroad program. Dr. E. R. McCormac (philosophy), Dr. C. E. Lloyd (English)...Find out why the students riot down there. What kind of driving force do they have that we do not?” “I intend,” he continued, “to meet these people wherever I can, in taverns and eating places."

In response to the same question, Betty Craig answered, "I'd like to find out the place of the Latin American co-ed, what she thinks and how she acts. What does she want out of life."

DATING

A surprise question of the evening, but not so much of one when you look at who asked it, came from Mackey MacDonald, “Will you girls date the Ecuadorian boys?” Judy Learned answered, “I don't see why not, if they ask me." Ehlers interjected that the customs in Latin America are, of course, different, and that the girls would probably only date in the sense that they might meet a boy at a party.

INTEGRATION

Paul Simpson brought the discussion back to the integration problem by asking the group how they would answer questions about the racial strife. Again Judy Learned answered, “I couldn't try to justify it, because I am ashamed of it. I'll just have to admit it." As the time approached for the girls to leave for their schools, Ehlers ended by saying that PRAM is not going to try to “sell the United States,” but to present a true picture. The group is going to have to admit both the good and the bad about this country. It is their job to get to know the people with which they come into contact.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

LAKESIDE INN (Under New Management)

“We are eager to serve the students of Davidson College either individually or in semi-private or private parties.”
Highway 115 South: Turn Right just before Fox Drive-in Theater
Open Tuesday through Saturday from 5
For reservations: Charlotte Ph. 377-2701 — 596-2711

May 16, at 4:30 p.m. Haseman tuba: Jack Stegman, trombone: and J. P. Causey, percussion. In speaking of these musicians Williams said, “They are outstanding members (of the Wind Ensemble), all of them All-American, who had exceptional high school careers and have done superior jobs.”

(Continued from Page One)

However, the council defeated this deferment by 4-12 and proceeded to approve the proposal, with the stipulation that the Clark committee reword the formal statement. Council appointed Prosser and Sackett to aid in preparing the final draft. The official council statement was approved by a vote of 16-0 (with one abstention).

PHONE SYSTEM

In other business, Powell introduced a complaint about the student monetary losses in the new phone system. Council appointed Meschan to prepare a report for next week. Chuck Matthews reported that Grover Meetz, director of the physical plant, was working with Oscar Gant, head of the Davidson Rescue Squad, in formulating a fire safety program. Tentative plans for next term include a chapel presentation, a possible fire drill, safety placards in every room, and special instruction during freshman orientation.

Faulty Pay Telephones Scheduled For Repair

Davidson's pay telephone problems should be pretty well cleared up by May 3, according to Harry Mann, district manager of Southern Bell in Charlotte. Additional equipment has been ordered under a high priority heading to remedy the situation. The equipment to be installed in the switching centers will provide the additional circuitry needed for proper service. This equipment according to Mann, which should be installed and operational by May 3, should remedy the inability to get dial tones. It should also clear up the complaints of lost dimes. Mann urges that anyone still losing money or having any other complaints notify the phone company so the specific phone can be checked. Asked about the possibility of more phones for the dormitories, especially freshman dorms, Mann said that additional phones, which operate on a guaranteed return basis, would have to be approved by the school officials, as far as both number and allotment of space is concerned. The question of numerous complaints was brought up in Monday's Student Council meeting by Dave Powell. David Meschan was appointed to look into the matter before the next meeting of the council. Also, a letter of complaint has been written by at least one student to the Charlotte office of Southern Bell concerning the phone situation at Davidson.

only. Continuation of the policy will depend on the success of this trial period. (b) No motor bike may be parked in any space reserved for permit holders. Bikes may be parked north of Watts dormitory and in the parking areas for Patterson Fraternity Court. (c) Motor bikes may be operated only on thoroughfares used by automobiles. They are not permitted on walks or on the grass.” At least one student noted that the motor bikes could never create as much noise as the ROTC tactics classes and that a policy allowing machine guns to be fired on campus, while at the same time prohibiting motor bikes, is irreconcilable.

Field Will Present Reading Of Poetry

Edward Field, winner of the 1962 Lamont Poetry Selection, will appear tonight at 8 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the Union. Field will read from his recently published book from Grove Press, Stand Up, Friend, With Me, and then will lead a discussion in an informal atmosphere. The Academy of American Poets presented their award to Field “for the discovery and encouragement of new poetic genius.” Critical comments on his poetry from 21 literary sources reveal a varied range of response from interested shock to fervid excitement. Said Mark Van Doren, “Your book is one of the best I have read in many years.” William Carlos Williams commented, “You gotta, to write ’em, have the words and you've got ’em. You gotta have the feeling among the words and you got it... I'm certain you’ve got the stuff: clean, straight writing that knows (or you know) what a poem could be made of. I am much impressed.”

conviction of colorings that get richer and purer with each washing. Incisive native shades set off the surely flared button-down collar and short sleeves that make news. This meticulous pullover adjusts easily to the heat.

Kush Wilson Ltd.
Davidson, N. C.

MOTHER'S DAY IS NEXT WEEKEND - SEND HER AN ORCHID CORSAGE SPECIALLY DELIVERED THE DAY BEFORE CARD ENCLOSED... HIGHEST QUALITY HUNDREDS OF SATISFIED DAVIDSON CUSTOMERS LAST YEAR COMPLETE SATISFACTION GUARANTEED

SEE: IRV WELLING -- WOODY COLEMAN -- BOB IRONS