PAGE FOUR

Holshouser ae NC Republican

By HEYWARD CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Editor

State House Minority Leader James B. Holshouser presented Monday in chapel what was perhaps the only politically-oriented speech of the entire year which was not greeted at some point by cheers, boos, or cat-calls. Perhaps the major reason for the acceptance of, not indifference to, Holshouser’s talk was that it was not, in his words, “part of any holy crusade” but simply an outline and summary of “politics in general and North Carolina politics in particular.”

Obviously, Holshouser did not intend to be bipartisan, but he also did not intend to engulf his audience in the morass of personal opinion and sentimentality which it has learned to expect from politicians in general. The major theme of Holshouser’s talk was suggested by Lt. Gov. Robert Scott in a speech delivered recently at Wake Forest College in which he stated that the Republican party in North Carolina was growing to such an extent that it was, under the right circumstances, “able to give ‘em (the Democrats) a fit.”

Holshouser maintains that North Carolina is “now truly a bi-party state,” as is evidenced by the large number of “near misses” it encountered in the 1964 elections. Although 1964 was an extremely bad year for the Republican party nationally, “North Carolina Republicans actually gained ground over their showing in 1960.” Bob Gavin, Holshouser pointed out, polled over 600,000 votes in the recent election—over 200,000 more than any other Republican candidate for governor before him.

In addition, Jonas and Broyhill, North Carolina's two Republican congressmen, had surprisingly easy wins in 1964, whereas in 1962 the majority for each was slight. Besides these major Republican victories, a good number of agonizingly close defeats were experienced in many districts formerly solidly Democratic. According to Holshouser, “The most significant result of the 1964 election in North Carolina is also the most overlooked—the substantial increase in the number of Republican county commissioners elected. When a party starts winning these (local) races... it won't be long before that party has one of its members occupying the governor’s mansion. And at the grassroots level, North Carolina Republicans came out stronger than ever.”

The key to the Republican gains in North Carolina are thought by Holshouser to lie in the changing face or image of the North Carolina Republican party. The party is now described best “by adding the word ‘progressive’ in front of the word ‘conservatism’. “Republicans in North Carolina are becoming more and more willing to suggest new approaches to problems facing our state, to no longer just sit back and let someone else do it, to be a party of doers.” Examples of this are Republican backing of North Carolina minimum wage laws and higher education improvements.

Goldiere Services Conducted Today

Funeral services were held this morning for Dr. Augustin Goldiere, retired Davidson professor of French, at 11 a.m. in the College Presbyterian Church. Goldiere died at his home Wednesday morning. Goldiere taught at Davidson for 40 years, interrupted only by two years during World War II. A native of Massachusetts, Goldiere received his AB from Dartmouth College and his MA and PhD from Yale University. He was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, the American Association of Teachers of French and Spanish, the South Atlantic Modern Language Association, and the American Association of University Professors. He is survived by his wife.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house.

FOR ALL CLASSES FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1965

Fee Increase Planned

Non-tuition rates will be increased for all classes beginning with the 1965-1966 term, according to Robert A. Currie, business manager of the college. The present room fee will be raised from $200 to $220 and laundry will be $85 instead of the present $75 fee. Board changes in the cafeteria will be raised to $425 from $400. The present $100 general fee will remain the same.

TUITION

In addition to the above changes for all classes, the tuition will be increased by $100 for the incoming Freshman Class making their total tuition $1,100. It has been a policy of the college for the last several years not to increase the tuition of

(Staff Photo by Johnson)

HOLSHOUSER CRACKS A FUNNY ONE

Republican's Speech Not All Serious

CAMPUS SCENES

Field Discusses Poetry, Muses On Life As Poet

By TED GLUSMAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The last time a poet visited Davidson, he said this was “the deadest place I’ve been.” Either Davidson has changed, or poets are a varied breed, for Edward Field, winner of the Lamont Poetry Award for 1962, spent three days here, and commented, “This is the most interesting college I've visited recently.” By the same token, Davidson’s reaction to Field was proportionately more excitement and interest.

Friday night was the only chance most students had for contact with Field, whose book Stand Up, Friend, With Me had been featured for several days in the student store, and the reading was very well-attended. In fact, some fifty people heard Field read from his own work, including such poems as “Mark Twain and Sholem Aleichem,” “The Bride of Frankenstein” (based on the movie), and “An Ode for Ookie.” The poet's Jewish accent and his inclusion of numerous personal notes on the poems contributed to an excellent reception of the man by his audience.

About thirty of the interested listeners remained behind after the formal reading to hear Field comment on various aspects of his life and work. He told prospective poets, “The only way I ever got anything published was by pull!” He added that his book had been turned down by no less than twenty-two publishers. Field told his eager audience about his visit to Greece, which he said had a tremendous effect on his poetry, and described his own poetry as “different from verse.” Poetry, he said, is larger than verse, and less restricted.

Unfortunately, Field was not scheduled for another reading here, but since he was not due at his next engagement till Monday, he spent the weekend on campus, taking long walks with students and by himself, and thinking. Commented one of his “disciples,” “He spent a good deal of his time alone.” He was described as a “complete individualist.” For instance, he eats flowers. That’s right, eats flowers. Mused a companion, “If a flower looks good, he just eats it.” Field spent the better part of one of those long walks teaching two of his fellow-travelers which flowers are good and which are not. Wildflowers are often very sweet, it seems, but dogwood is bitter. “It burns,” complained Field, who expressedStudents, once they have enrolled, will continue to pay their present tuition with no increase. In announcing the increase in fees, Currie pointed out that it has been three years since room and board fees have been raised. Beginning with the school year 1962-1963, they were raised from $170 to $200 and from $65 to $75, respectively. The last change in board was made four years ago in 1961-1962.

The Davidson Drama Department, under the direction of Prof. Rupert Barber, Jr., is presenting for its final production of the year two of Eugene Ionesco’s one-act plays, The Chairs and The New Tenant. Performances will be given tonight and tomorrow night at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. Davidson's Wind Ensemble plans to end the year with two informal lawn concerts on this Sunday and on May 16, at 4:30 p.m. in front of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. The selection of music for these concerts ranges from classical numbers to contemporary show music.

Much of Field's poetry deals with sex, which he says he enjoys (pause) writing about. In fact, he revealed that his next book will be a series of poems relating his own experiences in this realm and those told to him by friends. He pulls no punches in Stand Up, Friend, With Me, and he says that the same will be true of the forthcoming work. It is tentatively entitled Sex Stories and will consist, swears Field, of sixty-nine parts.

In case of rain, the concerts will be given in Hodson Hall. In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA.

The annual Davidson Executive Weekend, a retreat back to the campus for business and professional leaders for refresher courses in the liberal arts, will be held May 14-16. The theme of the 1965 “Weekend” will be “The Nature of Power.” The Executive Weekend is designed for a limited number of men who wish to return briefly as students to a liberal arts college and engage in serious study of major issues in world affairs, science, history, and literature.

Conservative Editor To Speak At Vespers

Dr. G. Aiken Taylor, editor of the Presbyterian Journal, will preach in vespers Sunday night. Taylor was born in Recife, Brazil, the son of missionary parents. He attended Presbyterian College, where he received his AB degree in 1940. During World War II, Taylor served as a captain in the army. After the war, Taylor attended Columbia Theological Seminary, where he received his BD in 1948. He obtained his PhD from Duke University. He has held pastorates in Smyrna, Ga., Alexandria, La., and Burlington. Taylor and his family now reside in Weaverville where the Presbyterian Journal (not an official publication of the Presbyterian Church) is published.

According to Chaplain Will Terry, “Taylor is known among Southern Presbyterians as one of the leading exponents of a conservative approach to the Bible and theology.”

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagna — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

MEET Your FRIENDS
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE PIZZA and BEST SPAGHETTI

Briarhide Calfskin by Bates

Fashioned by Bates skilled New England craftsmen, Imperial Classics feature fine Briarhide Calf Leather, soft glove leather linings, storm welted double leather soles and leather heels, plus the exclusive Bates-Flex construction designed for comfort and flexibility. Ours alone at 26.95

RUSH WILSON LTD.

Vagabonds Wind Up Year's Productions

Currie explained the increased rates in non-tuition fees by saying that the cost of operating “auxiliary operations” rises every year. Rather than increase the fees each year “at a $3.95 bargain rate,” the college periodically adjusts the rates to meet the increased costs. The janitors have received a raise in each of the eight years that Currie has been at Davidson. It is to be expected that room fees must be increased regularly to meet the increased cost of operation for the dormitories.

The increased board fee results from an agreement between the college and Slater Food Service. The college receives a proportional part of the fees to cover college costs. Currie stated that “we furnish all base stock equipment, all major cleaning, lights, water, heat, and gas, as well as take care of all repair and replacement of cafeteria equipment.”

SOCIAL FEE

No fee has been set for next year as a social fee. Currie surmised that it would be listed separately rather than as a part of the general fee. Since it is an extra expense, for scholarship purposes it should be considered separate from the general fee.

When asked about a possible salary increase for student workers, Currie replied that student salaries “are not considered in light of what students pay in fees of operation, but rather in light of inflation and job rates on campus, in town, and in the area.” Currie said that the college wanted to be as fair as possible in any and all increases, but that costs do rise and the college has to meet expenses.

Three Brothers TAVERN

OWNERS:
Chuck, Sam, and Ted
Dining and Dancing
5100 N. Tryon St.
Phone 596-9985 For Reservations

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
3300 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414

LAKESIDE INN Fish Camp (Under New Management)

“We are eager to serve the students of Davidson College either individually or in semi-private or private parties.”
Highway 115 South: Turn Right just before Fox Drive-in Theater
Open Tuesday through Saturday from 5 p.m. on...
For reservations: Charlotte 377-2701 — 596-2711

A digger’s dream, this 4-4-2! Here storms a lean ’n’ mean Rocket V-8... quad pots. Goodies like twin acoustically tuned, chambered pipes... heavy-duty shocks, front and rear stabilizers and 4 coil springs. Result: unique 4-4-2 action and road sense. How many cents? Lowest priced high-performance car in America designed for everyday driving! This woolly machine waits for you at your Oldsmobile Dealer’s now. Hurry!

Try a Rocket in Action... Look to Olds for the New!