PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1965

PROFESSIONAL TEAM

College Rescue Squad Organizes, Has Drills

By FRANK FLEMING
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The fully-equipped Davidson College Rescue Squad has recently been organized through the joint effort of 10 members of the college maintenance staff, and Grover C. Meetze, Jr., director of the physical plant, in accordance with the administration’s policy of maintaining modern safety equipment.

Having completed an intensive 36-hour course in fire evacuation procedure and first aid, the 10-man squad is now available for emergency assistance on campus or wherever it is needed. As a result of special instruction in heart massage, the squad members are also trained to render first aid in case of heart attack.

STEVE CALDWELL
Rescue Subject...

Begins Descent...

So Far. So Good...

HOME SAFE!

Oscar Gant, a former Davidson fire chief and presently maintenance supervisor, leads the squad through weekly drills in an effort to familiarize his men with the new apparatus and to practice under simulated rescue conditions. The college has spent approximately $2,000 in buying a 60-ft. ladder, two air packs, two life belts, one resuscitator, and eight safety suits composed of helmets, boots, jackets, and trousers.

At first, the biggest problem was the lack of storage space for the equipment. However, the shop crew solved this by building an 8-ft. storage box mounted on rollers. In case of an emergency, the safety apparatus can be rolled by one man from the shop platform onto a pickup truck. Should the truck develop motor trouble, the box could be moved to another truck without any delay.

Another problem centered around a way to alert squad members during off-hour emergencies. To solve this, Gant has adopted the “chain call system.” Once alerted by the night watchman, Gant telephones the next man in the chain, and so on until each man is contacted. Although still working for perfection, the squad is a professional rescue team with nine of its 10 members having diplomas in safety procedure. Captain Jim Jameson of the Charlotte Fire Department taught them in special night classes running from November to January. While Gant, Junior Barker, and Carl Sherrill are regular volunteer firemen, the other seven are not. Representing the departments of engineering and grounds, these seven are Philip Caldwell, Ruben McIntosh, Philip Cashion, Luther Honeycutt, Lloyd Honeycutt, Larry Titsworth, and George Morrow.

In appreciation of their hard work, Meetze commented, “These men deserve a lot of credit. They've learned the best first aid I've ever seen.” Meetze hastened to add, however, that the school facilities are safe. “We are not alarmed with our present conditions; however, we always try to find better methods if possible. We conduct siren tests every day at 1 p.m., but as yet we do not have a set evacuation procedure."

Meetze is working with student groups to seek the best method of dormitory evacuation. He emphasized that in order to have better safety, the student body must support and later practice an established procedure for emergencies. When such a plan is adopted, there will probably be dormitory fire drills involving the whole student body.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Brown
Fraley
Burts
Gable
Dagey
Gill
Driesell
Griffin
Epes
Kelton
Lilly
Swicord
Meetze
Welsh
Mitchell
Williams
Patterson
Young
Scott

April 5 Deadline Set For Writing Contest

All entries for the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing must reach some member of the English Department by Monday, April 5, Dr. W. P. Cumming, chairman of the English Department, announced this week.

In addition to the honorary recognition, the winner also receives a $75 cash prize, provided by a memorial fund set up by friends after World War II. An author of many short stories, Bell was best known as the writer of the novel Swamp Water, later made into a popular movie. This year the judge for the award will be Vereen Bell, Jr., presently an English professor at Vanderbilt University. Past judges include John Ciardi, editor of the Saturday Review; Reynolds Price of Duke University; and Robert Frost, often called America's “unofficial poet laureate.” John Pruitt received the award last year for his short story “Shroud of Victory.”

In addition to the April 5 deadline, other rules are:
1. Any regularly enrolled student of Davidson College is eligible to compete.
2. All entries must be the original work of their respective entrants and may fall in any recognized category of creative writing: essay, short story, drama, poetry, etc.
3. A student may submit entries in as many different categories as he wishes, but he may submit one entry only in each category with the exception of poetry. In poetry, the student may enter one poem, or a sequence of poems; if he submits more than one poem he must designate them as one unit and so enter them.
4. All entries must be typed, double spaced, and appear on one side of the paper only.
5. The name of the writer must be enclosed in an envelope bearing the title of the entry and attached to it. No name should appear on the manuscript itself.

Morris And Terry Initiate Seminars

Chaplain Will Terry and the Rev. William Morris of St. Alban’s Episcopal Chapel will lead a weekly study discussion group beginning Wednesday. The supper discussion meeting will center around two topics: Paul's letter to the Romans and two contemporary books. The first book is Man’s Search for Meaning (Death Camp to Existentialism) by Victor Frankl. It has been called “the most important contribution to psychiatry since the writing of Freud.” Richard Niebuhr’s Radical Monotheism and Western Culture, the second study book, contains a series of essays on the relation of faith and various fields of human endeavor (e.g., politics, economics, and the natural sciences). In both parts of the discussions, Davidson professors will frequently be used as resource persons. The series, lasting from six to eight weeks, will begin next Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the Union's Wildcat Room. Supper, which will be served to those in attendance, will be paid for by the individuals. In addition, two other demands will be placed on the members of the group (whose size will be limited to 20): regular attendance, and reading of the assigned material.

NEW FACILITIES DEVELOPED

Duke Money Distributed

By JIM MORAWETZ
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Duke Endowment has given an $80,000 specific-purpose grant to the college, bringing to $274,000 the Duke allocations to Davidson this year, the college has announced. The allocations will be as follows: $10,000 for improvement of the physics lab, $20,000 for intramural and personal athletic facilities, $5,000 for the college's self-study program, $20,000 for the establishment of a physiology lab and biology museum, $15,000 for continuation in 1965-6 of the Junior Year Abroad program, and $10,000 for further development of the InterdepartmentalHumanities Program. Previous grants from the Duke Endowment for the current school year were $114,500 for faculty recognition, encouragement, salary improvements, and the establishment of a writer-artist in residence program, and $80,000 for the improvement of the library. The allotment for the physics lab is a matching fund which equals an NSF grant received last spring. Since then, new equipment has been procured to update the lab, especially in the field of electro-demonstration and special projects. The $20,000 given to the athletic department will be used to improve the outdoor facilities. All new additions, according to athletic director Tom Scott, will include four hard tennis courts and surface facilities in handball and basketball. The funds given for the establishment of a physiology lab and biology museum have, to a large degree, already been used. The new 800 sq. ft. physiology lab, already constructed, has more than doubled the former facilities, according to Dr. William Lammers, associate professor of biology. Also, there are now special spaces for work with radioactive isotopes and with special instruments. The biology museum, constructed last fall on the top floor of the Dana Building, gives adequate space for the storage and display of museum material which, for the past forty or fifty years, has been kept in the attic of the Martin Science Building. According to Dr. Elmer Brown, the museum will contain vertebrate and invertebrate materials which will be useful in class lectures. The $15,000 for the Junior-Year Abroad program is to be used to obtain another professor to replace the one needed to take charge of the program. Students will, for the most part, still be expected to meet their expenses with their tuition money. The $10,000 for the Humanities Department will be used to allow professors to prepare for, improve, and evaluate the program during the summer. The two other grants, $80,000 for the library and $114,500 for the faculty, have already been put into use. The library budget itself, in the words of President D. Grier Martin, has “more than doubled” in recent years, and this grant will further aid in Davidson's efforts to “acquire the outstanding library which it should have.” The faculty allotment, as described by Dean of Faculty Frontis Johnston, will be used more for “renewal and refreshment” than for research. Approximately a dozen faculty members, to be chosen in a few weeks, will be selected for grants this summer. Johnston also stated that although no choice has yet been made for an artist or writer in residence, some decision is expected to be made in the near future. Davidson is one of four schools receiving continuous aid from the endowment, the other schools being Duke, Johnson C. Smith, and Furman Universities.

During 1964-65, Duke grants to Davidson will be in excess of $600,000, making the Duke Endowment the college's principal, most continuous benefactor since the establishment of the endowment in the 1920s.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd.

Lesley Frost To Lecture, Read Poetry Of Frost
Lesley Frost, daughter of the late Robert Frost and internationally renowned lecturer and writer, will be on the campus Thursday to speak in chapel and to smaller, more informal groups later in the day. The topic for Miss Frost's lecture has not yet been determined, although she is particularly noted for her “Readings from Robert Frost” and variations on the topic of “The Meaning of Culture.” Miss Frost has the singular ability to make all literature, but particularly poetry, an adventure in thought and feeling. Throughout her life, from her childhood on her father's famous New England farm, until the present when she is operating a summer school in Spain, while concurrently lecturing and writing four books, Miss Frost has had an intimate involvement in art and literature. From 1945 to 1947 she worked for the Office of War Information Library. Her next assignment was in Latin America where she lectured on American literature under the auspices of the U.S. State Department. Miss Frost also served as Assistant Professor of English at Rockford College and as Director of the King-Smith Studio School in Washington and her own Frost Studio School. Starting out with the Open Bookshop in Pittsfield, Mass., Miss Frost expanded her bookselling enterprise into a “bookshop-on-wheels” traveling throughout New England and into the Round the World Bookshop on the S. S. Franconia.

Miss Frost has traveled extensively throughout the world, and these travels include such unprecedented trips as a recent voyage from Gloucester, Mass. to Scandinavia in a small sailing boat. Her special interest in children shows itself in her two books of children's short stories entitled Really Not Really and a book of poems, Says Prescott. Soon to be published are two more books, Mate Licorice, another children’s book, and New Hampshire's Child, an autobiography of Miss Frost's life until she was 12. Beginning in 1964, the recently purchased La Granja Palace near Toledo, Spain was opened by Miss Frost as a summer school for teenage girls concentrating on French and Spanish literature. Miss Frost’s husband, Dr. Joseph Ballentine, is a former head of the U.S. State Department’s Far Eastern Division, and he presently teaches at the New School and New York University.

Dr. William B. Hight, education professor and director of student counseling, will discuss the many facets of the college guidance office at Open End at 10 p.m. Wednesday, reports Paul Simpson, chairman of Open End. In addition to discussing the current functions of student counseling, Hight will reveal some of his plans for improving and broadening the guidance program.

MANSFIELD University Club SADDLE OXFORDS
A real Classic — Saddle Oxford in Smoked Gluv With Black Saddle and Black Cushion Crepe Sole. A Big Value Because They are Made by Famous BOSTONIAN. Come Get Yours Today.

OPEN FRIDAY NIGHTS
Our 53rd Year
Only 6 Miles North
STEAKS — Sea Food — Chicken
North Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The object of our concern was a small, wedge-shaped mollusk found in southern waters where we planned to lay telephone cables. Like others of its genus Martesia (of the family Pholadidae), it is a borer. Usually, it bores into limestone or some other substance to find a home. Would it—could it—bore into our undersea cables? At the time, we were testing the performances of proposed dielectric materials for undersea cables at various simulated depths, temperatures, and pressures. We also tested for ocean resistance to marine biological attack. The testing showed that our cable coverings wouldn’t be attractive to pholads, and in nearly fifteen years of experience with undersea telephone cables, we have peacefully shared the ocean bottom with them. But we had to be sure we could. In the telephone business, reliability is everything. We must do all we can to safeguard service from interruption. No threat is too small to ignore, not even that posed by a tiny mollusk. Right now we've got other problems. Out in the Dakotas, hungry squirrels and field mice are nibbling on our wires. We have to run.