FRIDAY, APRIL 30, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Outmoded Restrictions Make Davidson A Poor Imitation

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Associate Editor

(Editorial Correspondence)

“Irresponsible drinking is a serious violation of College regulations and standards and will be dealt with accordingly. The College does not prohibit the moderate use of alcoholic beverages in dormitories and fraternities, though no student may consume any alcoholic beverage, or carry a ‘drink,’ in public.”
—Rules and Regulations, Dartmouth College.

“No student shall be guilty of drinking alcoholic liquors or having the same in his possession on the campus. Every student found guilty of violation of this regulation shall be suspended from the College.”
—Student Body Constitution, Davidson College.

“Undergraduates may entertain women guests in dormitory rooms after 8 a.m. until the following times:
Sunday through Thursday 7 p.m.
Friday 9 p.m.
Saturday 12 midnight
—Undergraduate Regulations, Princeton University.

“No women are allowed to visit dormitory rooms except on college conducted tours.”
—Dormitory Regulations, Davidson College.

“For many, college may be their first voluntary opportunity to get their teeth into a faith of their own making and to explore with others the possibilities of a creative religious life. Others will find opportunities to continue in groups that they have already found helpful and meaningful.”
—Statement of policy, Whittier College.

“For exceeding the number of unexcused absences allowed in either Vespers or Chapel, a student will be placed on probation with regard to the exercise ‘overcut.’ An additional excess absence in the exercise overcut will result in a penalty of loss of one half the number of unexcused absences allowed for the next semester in that exercise. Also, any further absences for the present semester in either exercise will result in a restriction to the campus.”
—Davidson College Regulations.

Davidson’s great liberalization program of the past several years, of which the current fraternity turmoil is but the most recent aspect, appears to be somewhat one-sided with regard to student life, according to a recent DAVIDSONIAN inquiry which was answered by seven of nine colleges and universities contacted. Davidson's great northern idols — Princeton, Harvard, Dartmouth, Amherst, and Williams—are among the group responding to the questionnaire, which centered around the aspects of required church and assembly attendance, drinking rules, and regulations concerning women in dormitories. Bowdoin College in Maine and Whittier College in California also answered the survey.

Princeton, Harvard, Dartmouth, Amherst, Williams, and Bowdoin all permit the freedom of moderate consumption of alcoholic beverages on campus. Whittier and Davidson do not.

MAXIMUM PUNISHMENT

Typical of the policies of the first six colleges is the above rule of Dartmouth, and the regulation at Princeton, listing suspension as the maximum punishment for “disorder and bad manners arising from the use of liquor.” Regulations of Williams, Amherst, and Bowdoin make similar references to the use of alcohol, while Harvard regulations make no mention at all of the subject.

However, Davidson does not stand alone in her courageous fight against the evil of alcoholic beverages. The rules of the Quaker-supported institution in California provide a familiar ring, specifying, “The use or possession of alcoholic beverages by a student or student organization on campus or at a Whittier College function off-campus is prohibited.”

Whittier also concurs with Davidson in the barring of women from men's dormitories, but recognizes the necessity of normal social intercourse by providing for a coed student body. The other six colleges, all male institutions, permit women in dormitory and fraternity house rooms.

CONSERVATIVE HOURS

The above-mentioned visiting hours for Princeton are on the conservative side in comparison to the other Ivy League schools, with the latest visiting hours being 2 a.m. on Saturday night at Williams and 12:30 a.m. on Saturday nights at Amherst. Only Bowdoin among the northern schools departs from the general pattern, providing for only afternoon visiting hours and these only on Friday and Saturday. However, their Dean of Students notes that Bowdoin’s social situation “is in a state of flux at the moment,” and that it is hoped by next year Bowdoin will have “a new social code prepared by the students and governing the various social privileges and responsibilities which go with being a student at this College.”

Not even the doctrinaire Quakers in California support an institution having required church attendance, asserting instead the value of ‘a creative religious life’ found by each student voluntarily. The most that the rules of the northern schools do toward providing forced religion is point out the churches in the vicinity available for student worship.

UNHEARD OF

Required student assemblies are also unheard of at the Ivy League institutions, while Whittier does require attendance at student and faculty sponsored convocations held once a week. The institution probably most similar to Davidson in this respect is Baptist-supported Campbell College, a coed school of sorts at Buies Creek where chapel is held five times a week and boys can get demerits for shooting squirrels.

Apparently a great amount of change in thinking will have to be effected before the “Princeton of the South” can, in the field of student freedom and responsibility, even become a good imitation.

COLLEGE BOARD PROGRAM

Bliss Heads Placement Committee

Give Gripes Direction: Action, Not Just Talk

By BILL WISEMAN

The most diabolical curse that can be placed upon a college is that its students be oppressed and be unaware of the oppression. We have, in some measure, escaped the still-birth of unacknowledged oppression. We are one-up on such a quagmire. But our station on the road toward awareness and maturity is greatly more uncomfortable than unconscious drudgery. Even disregarding the mist of hang-over apathy, the Calvinistic novocaine has begun noticeably to wear off. We, at Davidson, are in the throes of the Gripe stage. And that is a start.

If you’re interested in the “elite” thought of the campus, there are many sources of information. Spot-check letters to the Editor in recent, or ancient DAVIDSONIANS. Act nonchalant, and slip up on a table of beats, Union-hounds, and other generally coffee-dreg denizens. Drop key phrases, like “intellectual stagnation,” “student apathy,” “social stereotype,” “political effeminacy,” around the dark corners of the campus, or at the disciples congregating about young turks of the faculty. If you haven't gotten the word yet, you will learn that this small spot on a large map in large measures, “eats it.” Yeah, man. Now you can cool it with the varieties of local cynicism. And, if you don’t care, or know you shouldn't appear to care whom you are seen with, you might even be inducted into the mystique of what, around here, serves as intellectual. Such glory can be yours. Instead of lying around a fraternity house moaning over a no-make soiree or a lost decanter, you can sit around the Union or Library catacombs and register dismay at a puerile, timid student council, fink Trustees, or the amorphous but chastity-belting administration.

A GRIPE

Read, but don’t misread. I am not panning gripes. This essay, you may have noticed, is something of a gripe. Gripes are often admirable as a direction. Direction, but no place. When complaint becomes a mode of thought, you develop the malignant epitome of undirected, or halted liberals. You find yourself in a circle in which “civil rights” is a popular cause, in which alcohol is an idol of other pastures, in which intellectual ardour is desired, in which freedom is wished for, to be greeted, if ever, with latent responsibility. But as a local poet once mused in a streak of fancy, “Life just ain't like that.”

PASTORAL COMFORT

Causes are admirable. But here in our pastoral comfort it is much too easy to forget that real causes invariably signal tension, discomfort, even threats. Sure, I'll get on your band-wagon with you and swat a tambourine for free speech — but let's take the wagon at least as far as Mooresville or Charlotte. The rub is that civil rights, real civil rights, is not a popular cause — out there. If it were popular, as a cause it would be superfluous. No, rather it is a painful, messy, slow, often dangerous attempt to purge the bigotry from all of us — not just to shame a few deluded terrorists in a Selma or a Philadelphia (either one).

FREEDOM

Alcohol, you will note, is merely alcohol — not a so disgruntled’s in the tract. Intellectual ardour can be desired with a passion, but it will never achieve itself. And freedom is never granted without responsibility, but rarely even with it. Freedom of any kind, like any other mountain to be built, is the self-won fruit of a long, hard, insistent effort. It has to be forged by those who would have it — it has never been handed to anyone. Let the beginning, the germ, of social action — by some of our people in recent voter-registration — continue, expand, if their real action comes of real, well-wrought conviction.

CHAMPAGNE?

If you want champagne on campus, don't long for it, do something. Several thousand beer cans (empty, if you will) piled before the Chambermaids some bright Sunday morning, for a start. If you want a fraternity in which you can really have freedom from Presbyterian matrons, let the college have its little houses. There's a Lingle bit the Manor with them anyhow. Rent one of your own, hire a cook, save a lot of money — and get out of that brick, mortar and pestle-ence known as dormitory life (ugh). It has been done before. The crux of power for any status quo is implied intimidation and reprisal for dissent. The student store doesn't stock back-bones neither does the Ltd. Rush Wilson, but they have been known to spring up in unexpected places.

LIBERALIA

When Liberal ideas become a status quo, however — which originally was their target, questions must arise as to the nature and or the intent of those who assent to liberalia. If the day arrives when all it takes to be a political, social, or intellectual liberal is the nodding of one's head in the right (and predominant) company, there will be the paradox in which it takes more courage and imagination to be a musty, festered conservative.

Don’t stop. Don't stop griping. Holler about restriction. Scream about injustice. Gripe about the mystique of a “safe place” to be sent. Gripe about this essay. The more, the better. But don’t ever hit back and be pleased with the echoes of your gripes. Be so busy doing something about what has to be changed that any echoes are seen to be just what they are — echoes.

By JAMIE BRYANT
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Dr. Frank W. Bliss, Associate Professor of English, is very specific and definite as he sits behind his desk and relates his ideas, accomplishments, and endeavors. He is a man in a hurry, and is involved in matters national andlocal in scope. Bliss is currently the chief reader for the College Entrance Examination Board’s Advanced Placement Program in English. This program is international in scope and includes about 14,000 students across the nation. The program is centered at Princeton, where Bliss first became involved in 1956 as a reader for the tests. Each individual exam is read by this board of readers, and none of them are graded by machine. Bliss became a member of the Committee of Examiners in 1960 and head of this committee in 1964. This committee is responsible for making the exam and setting the policy for the program, as well as conducting the exam. The committee also selects teachers to serve as readers to grade the exam. Today there are approximately 200 readers, of which one-third are high school teachers and two-thirds are college professors. The Committee of Examiners meets several times a year to work on the tests, which are made out a year-and-a-half in advance. Work is now in progress on the exam for 1966, and work on the test for 1967 will begin in August. As head of the committee, Bliss visits the schools and consults with the teachers who are involved in the program and carries on daily correspondence with CEEB. Bliss points out that the aim of the program is to break down the concept of 12 years of high school and 4 years of college into 16 years of higher education. This is designed to encourage the gifted student who would be bogged down by the pace set for the average student. It enables the high school curriculum to adjust and progress with the advanced student. The test is given in May, and about 12 percent of those who take the test receive college credit. Bliss pointed out that any student can take the test whether he has been in the advanced program or not. Of all the subjects offered under the CEEB program, English is the largest. After World War II, Bliss returned to Emory and completed his AB in two years in 1947. He then went to the University of Minnesota, where he finished his MA in 1948 and completed coursework on his PhD in 1949. He became an instructor of English at the University of Oregon, where he remained until 1953, when he returned to Minnesota and completed his dissertation while teaching part-time. Bliss received his PhD in 1954 and accepted an instructorship at Princeton. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1957. In 1960 he resigned and accepted an assistant professorship at St. Olaf College. Bliss came to Davidson in 1963 to teach in the Humanities program. From here no one knows where he will go, but he describes himself as “essentially a nomadic person.” At Davidson, he is Chairman of the Sophomore Humanities Staff and has served on the Self Study Educational Program Committee as its Secretary. He also serves on the Admissions Committee and the Library Committee. When asked about any publications, Bliss answered, “What books?” He did admit to publishing a lecture titled “To Read a Literary Work,” an introduction to an edition of Eighteenth Century poetry, and “very few” essays and reviews every year.

Dionne Talks Casually On Davidson, Careers
By JOE FORD
Davidsonian Asst. Managing Editor

Dionne Warwick was quite a sight for the relaxed, but attentive “Frolickers” sprawled out in front of Chambers last week. Her unexpected blonde hair, her familiar sleek black gown, her self-assured bearing, her fascinating, light voice, all combined to overcome a faulty PA system and an overly-loud band with an exciting performance. There are many intriguing aspects of this entertainer which, unfortunately, do not reveal themselves during a performance. Only after a conversation with the witty young lady is one aware of her warm sincerity, which can make a nervous reporter feel “at home” in a couple of minutes. Dressed in black slacks and a sweater, she sat on a couch in the Union lounge and reflected on her impressions of the campus, “I love it,” she remarked. “It’s beautiful. It reminds me of my own school. I even took pictures of the campus this afternoon.

CAMPUS IMPRESSIONS

“The idea of an all-male school appeals to me, though I find it quite different. Everyone is so helpful. The manners are noticeably better here. It’s amazing how attitudes and people differ from place to place.” She reached to pull a pack of Salems from her pocketbook and laughed at the tear in the patent leather bag. “This is what you get for overloading it,” she quipped. “I use it for a suitcase and just about everything else.” Commenting on the conditions under which she had just performed, Miss Warwick said, “The idea of an outdoor concert is lovely. This is only my third. “I don’t like the idea of singing with a different band at each concert, though. It’s got to stop. Of course, I realize that it’s not the school’s fault. The agents should take a little more time getting a group which fits better with the singer. It’s a real headache when you don’t know what kind of band to expect. For all I know, they could show up with five guitarists!

JOINT CONCERT IDEAL

“The joint concert idea has its advantages,” she added, “but I prefer to do my own show. Then I can sorta stretch out. This way you’re confined. A one-man show is to the performer’s advantage, unless, of course, he’s no good.” She plans to appear on some shows this summer and fall, including “The Al Hirt Summer Show,” “The Steve Lawrence Show,” “Hollywood Palace,” and “The Dean Martin Show.” “I do millions of frat parties,” she added. “Man, I’ve done ‘em! Some are real dasharoos!”

PAST CAREER

Commenting on her “pop” career, she explained, “I was in a gospel group, but it gradually dissolved. Four years ago some friends convinced me to make my first recording, ‘Don’t Make Me Over.’ I was in school at the University of Hartford at the time. The record was a hit, so they snatched me out of school and all of a sudden there I was.” When asked if she ever missed her gospel singing career, she answered, “Of course I do! You can’t get away from something you were brought up on. I still include two gospels in my full performance. Also, I sing in the church choir when I’m home. I love it!”

FUTURE PLANS

Regarding her future plans, she paused to think and then remarked, “I gave myself seven years to reach the peak. I’ll know when it comes. I want to quit at the right time so I can come back in five years with the same prestige with which I left. “I want to go back to school and get that little slip of paper that says I can teach. I want to teach music education.” As she stood up and began to walk downstairs for a steak dinner, she smiled and said, “I love music. My mother made me take piano, and I hated it. But I took for 13 years and I love it now. It’s my baby.”

‘Crusader Without A Cause’

(EDITOR’S NOTE: The following appeared as an editorial in a recent issue of the Mooresville Tribune (April 15). Because of its reference to the college community, we have reprinted parts of the editorial below. Last week’s DAVIDSONIAN carried a news article on the participants from Davidson.)

Don Quixote fought his windmills: a fragment of the Davidson College faculty and student body now courageously attacks discrimination at the Mooresville polls. The hollow sound of the contemporary conflict, not unlike the pounding of Rosinante’s hoofs, is music for the march of crusaders without a cause. The little tragicomedy played out here Saturday by a delegation from Davidson and a few Negro citizens of Mooresville was the most farcical and foredoomed promotion since those madcap advertising men set out to clothe all the poor naked animals. While there is some evidence that the Negro registration drive was born in good faith, it exploded into a cry of wolf in the one pasture known positively to be free of wolves. There is not now, nor has there been in recent history, one iota of discrimination at places of registration and voting in this community. Any claims of such discrimination are poppycock, pure and simple. If the play-acting Saturday had been that and nothing more, we would be commending the organized effort to get more citizen participation in our upcoming town and school elections. But, sadly, providing encouragement and transportation for people to places of registration just isn’t glamorous or exciting — it simply isn’t what “intelligent and compassionate” people, especially college kids, are doing these days. It is a disappointing reflection on the caliber of Davidson College that its representatives close-mindedly assumed that what’s wrong enough for Selma is wrong enough for the South. It is doubly condemning that in their haste to grasp the microphone firmly in hand and charge off in all directions, the Davidson spokesmen picked the State Theater. The State Theater long since has been integrated and without the slightest incident. But the guts of the issue is discrimination at the polls. We defy anyone to present evidence that any eligible citizen has been denied access to the ballot box here. In truth, this is the one area in which registrars often stretch the voter requirements in order to get Negroes registered. The Mooresville Town Board last week discussed following state and county rules in demanding proof of literacy during the registration period now in effect. The commissioners decided against placing any additional restrictions on registering for fear it would prevent even one citizen from qualifying to vote. The whole business would be laughable were it not so potentially dangerous. Already, tension has been created where none existed. A gully now has eroded across the path of real appeals for genuine needs for Negroes. Mooresville now asks: If misguided people will go to these extremes to assure something they had without question, what on earth is left for them to do in pursuing legitimate aims? The one bright star in all this may be seen from the campus of Davidson College. A college education today without seasoning on the battleground of civil rights is unthinkable. Higher learning without race confrontation nowadays is as meaningless as, say, a South American election without revolution, or a money-making movie that isn’t for “adults only.” Davidson’s bright young men, student and faculty, have been rescued from such an outdated destiny — they have found their cause célèbre in their own backyard. Too bad they have missed the point Cervantes made.