& Th VOL. LV . a ata i yr Bauidsontan The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student
Body DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1965 SELF-STUDY URGES NEW LIBRARY (See Page Three) NUMBER ELEVEN \Faculty-Trustee
Committee (Staff Photo by Purvis) ROUSSELOT PRESENTS HIS CASE “Anti-Communism And Patriotism Are Not Enough” Bircher Shows Society in Unexpected
Fashion By LINDSAY DAVIS Davidsonian Feature Writer Probably the best way to describe it is that everyone was a little
surprised, to say the least. From all past experiences in the average Davidson student’s tenure here, any speaker who professed
to be a right-wing conservative has been inarticulate and overly biased in his opinions. But John Bircher:- John H. Rousselot
was not. A former Congressman from California, Rousselot is now national director of public relations for the John Birch Society.
He appeared concerned over the problem that his group has been misrepresented by the press and by members of the
society itself. It was his professed aim to clarify the opinions of the society and to create interest in its
operations. Interesting enough was his brief sketch of the society’s namesake, John Birch, who was a militarily-oriented missionary in China
during World War II. Birch was a real hero in the fight against Communism after the war, Rousselot said, but
he was murdered in his prime by “typical Communist tactics, strategy and style.” It was his death that drew the
battle lines of the “undeclared World War I.” Founded in Indianapolis in 1958 by Robert Welch, the Birch Society now
boasts about 5,000 chapters averaging between 10 and 30 members each. “Anti-communism and patriotism are not enough to become a
member,” Rousselot said. A person must also have “good will, conscience and high religious ideals.” This country, he continued, “must
pull itself out of the evil of collectivism to individuality." The Birchers’ battle cry is more responsibility and less government.
The Communist “criminal conspiracy” is threatening our world and it is every Bircher’s duty to stop it, Rousselot explained as
he outlined the group's plan of action. “We are aiding the dissemination of books and pamphlets, such as J. Edgar
Hoover’s Masters of Deceit, in order to make the public aware of the danger which is within our country as
well as without.” The society is also pushing the circulation of conservative literature, and is attempting to contrast the effect
of radio and television commentators in their view of the John Birch Society. In addition, the society is beginning a
massive letter-writing campaign to stimulate interest, and is forming ad hoc committees, such as a group supporting the local organizations
of law and order, the police. “We are attempting to wake up America to the activities of pro-communist groups, the
Ku Klux Klan and the American Nazi party. Our weapon is to make known the backgrounds of leaders and members
of these groups.” One of the things which disturbs the society most is that of the articles of legislation outlined
by Communist leader William Foster in his book, Toward a Soviet America, some 20 years ago, of which about 70
per cent has already been passed. The core of the belief of the society is that “individuals are the important
tenants of life,” he said. However, “too few are accepting the responsibility to participate.” Morality is falling down and “just
not enough people are involved.”

Off-Campus Events, Road Trips Examined The joint Faculty-Trustee Committee on Alcoholic Beverage Policy met Monday night to discuss the recent
faculty action in the drinking regulation change. The meeting was open to all faculty members and Trustees, and certain students
representing various organizations on campus were extended oral invitations to attend. Trustees attending the meeting were Dr. J. McDowell Richards
and D. R. LaFar Jr., president and vice-president of the board respectively. Approximately 20 faculty members were also present. Students
who attended included Jim Terry and Al Carson from the IFC, Bill Council and Billy Clark from the Student Council,
Jim Stokes from the Honor Court, and Tom Earnhardt and George Kuykendall from the Social Life Evaluation Committee. According to
Dr. J. G. Martin, a member of the joint committee, the committee hesitated to throw the meeting open to the
whole student body. “The students who attended represented many varied aspects of student opinion,” he continued. However, no member of
the Social Council was invited to attend the meeting, despite the fact that the council was involved in Ensemble To
Play On Monday The Davidson College Wind Ensemble will entertain the college and community with a concert in Hodson Hall
at 8:15 p.m. next Friday. Whereas the concert is not to be primarily a holiday performance, it will include two
brass choir selections appropriate for the season: “Canzona No. 2” by Gabrieli and a suite of traditional Christmas carols arranged
by Leroy Anderson. The brass choir will be composed of selected members of the Wind Ensemble. The Wind Ensemble itself
will present “Serenade for Clarinets” by Pierne, “Symphony for Band” by the French composer Jadin, the “Jericho” number which was
performed in the Ensemble’s chapel program, “Carnival” by H. Owen Reed and a brassy circus march by Karl King. Dr.
Grier M. Williams, director of the Wind Ensemble, indicated that he will select several of the works from this program
for performance on the organization’s tour to Florida this March, so that this Friday's concert will give the college community
a chance to hear a portion of the tour program. and had proposed one question that was discussed at the
Monday night meeting. “AN OVERSIGHT” Martin, commenting on the statement of Campbell, said that it was simply an oversight. “They
should have had an invitation.” Martin said that the first issue discussed was that of trips of college organizations. He
said, “Is it the college’s business whether a student drinks on organization trips; and can the coaches and advisors control
the students without rules and regulations?” Opinions on both sides of the issue were expressed. Representing the coaches’ viewpoint, expressed
earlier in THE DAVIDSONIAN by Coach Heath Whittle, were Coach Harry Fogleman and Dr. Tom Scott, director of athletics. DISCIPLINE
PROBLEM Whittle had made the statement earlier that “since the minor sports have no scholarships, a problem of team discipline
could conceivably arise.” The second issue brought up was the question raised earlier by Campbell in THE DAVIDSONIAN. He had
stated, “The change puts pressure on the Social Council to sponsor off-campus parties so that students may drink.” Martin said
that “not all agree with Campbell, and this question caused much interest.” Martin continued, “everybody stated their views on the
issue, but no vote was taken — this committee just forms an opinion and proposes; we are not an executive
committee.” A third point discussed was college liability in case of accidents involving college-owned automobiles or cars used in service
of the school. Martin said that the college carried $500,000 of liability insurance, but that there was still the college's
moral responsibility. CLARIFICATION At the urging of several students attending the meeting of the joint committee, Richard C. Burts, dean
of students, issued a statement clarifying the faculty action. This statement was distributed after chapel Wednesday. Martin gave THE DAVIDSONIAN
his opinion on the meaning of the sections of the faculty action. “In some circumstances drinking is proper, but in
others it is not. It is proper in a restaurant, bar or party where it is served, but not at
a concert or theater. Loss of equilibrium at a party is not the same as at a ball game.” Burks’
Honor Proposals By JOHN SAILEY Davidsonian Staff Writer John Burks, senior representative on the Honor Court, will present his proposals
in assembly Monday for equalizing the enforcement of the Student Body Regulations among the Honor Court, the Student Council and
the student body as a whole. Burks has stated that he largely has the concurrence of the members of the
Honor Court and Student Council for his plan, which calls for the deletion from the oath of office for the
two arms of student government of the words, “that I will be honor bound to report any violation of the
Honor System or any other provision of theconstitution which comes under my observation.” He is quick to emphasize that “this
has absolutely nothing to do with the Honor System,” the enforcement of which is already provided for in Article VII,
Section 4 of the Student Body Constitution. The purpose of the deletion is to no longer require members of the
Honor Court and Student Council to report violations of the Student Body Regulations which the students themselves are unwilling to
enforce. Burks also proposes to “call for a general referendum on all of the present Student Body Regulations, in order
to determine for which of the regulations the student body is willing to assume responsibility.” He is pursuing his plan
of action on the assumption that “if student jurisdiction is valuable, it is worth the responsibility of the whole student
body, not just the officers of the student government.” The central importance of placement of responsibility for enforcement is emphasized
by both Burks and Jim Stokes, chairman of the Honor Court. Stokes stated that “the proposal to be offered Monday
will put more responsibility on the students, which is good.” He, too, pointed out that the Honor System will not
be endangered. Burks said that necessary implications of the plan will either be an acceptance on the part of the
student body of responsibility for enforcement or else a rejection of this responsibility with the consequences that “original jurisdiction... should
reside with the faculty.” An informal “Open End” type discussion will be held in the Union Monday night to discuss
the proposals and answer any questions on the part of students.

The questions were: “Is it the...”

“OH, NO! Coach Lefty Driesell’s expression betrays his dismay as Wake Forest’s Bob Leonard pumps in the second of two
free throws with 14 seconds left in Wednesday night’s basketball opener. Leonard’s final free throw gave Wake Forest the game,
87-86. Trainer Tom Couch, Freshman Coach Terry Holland and Assistant Coach Warren Mitchell look on in disgust. Leonard and Paul
Long pressured Driesell’s inexperienced roundballers into mistakes and the narrow defeat. For details of the game and next week’s contests
see page five.” (Staff Photo by Purvis)

By MIKE POWELL
Davidsonian Staff Writer

With this year’s fraternity rush period drawing to a close, rushing activities on campus are expected to escalate sharply during
the next two weeks. The final two sets of rush parties will be held in the fraternity houses on the
next two Sundays, and bids from the fraternities will be mailed to the homes of freshmen during the first few
days of the Christmas holidays. The final period of dorm rush was held Tuesday. The remaining rush parties will each
be one hour in length, with three parties being held each of the two Sunday afternoons from 2 until 5
p.m. Redates for these parties, the only ones for which redates were necessary, have already been issued by the fraternities
and accepted by the freshmen. Upperclassmen will return to the old practice of walking freshmen from the dorms to the
fraternity court for the first party and then returning them to the dorms following the final party each day. Bids
must be accepted by the freshmen during the Christmas vacation. Freshmen will mail their acceptances to the Interfraternity Council representative
of the fraternity which they pledge. A list of IFC representatives and their addresses will be mailed to each freshman
along with his bids. Acceptances must be postmarked before the end of the Christmas vacation.

In appraising the rush system at this stage from a freshman's viewpoint, Bayard Miller, president of the Freshman Council, said
he felt the rush was “too long, too dragged out.” He wished that the rush could have been “started earlier
and finished more quickly.” However, he said there was still “exceptional enthusiasm” among the freshmen toward rush and joining fraternities.
From the fraternity man's point of view, Dave Perrin, Sigma Chi representative to the IFC, said that he believed rush
“was going pretty well considering the system within which it was being conducted.” He felt there is too much restriction
on contact between freshmen and upperclassmen.

Fabulous Five Set For Combo Party

A post-game combo party featuring the Fabulous Five will be held tomorrow night from 10:30 until 2:30 in the basement
of Chambers. Sponsored by the Social Council, the party will highlight Davidson's first home basketball game of the season, against
Bucknell. Social Council President Dan Campbell indicated that there would be no unusual attractions at this party but emphasized, “The
Fabulous Five will certainly provide excellent entertainment for everyone.” He also stated that plans were underway for the annual College
Union Christmas party Dec. 17.

FOUR OBJECTIVES

Four IFC Delegates Go To National Conference

Four delegates are representing the Davidson Interfraternity Council at this weekend's National Interfraternity Conference in Washington, D.C. Jim Terry, president
of the IFC, Stan Brown, John Jeter, and David Westfall are the four who will attend. Originally all 12 members
of the Council were to attend this year’s conference. Terry reported several objectives for Davidson's participation in the annual NIC:
to integrate NIC programs with specific conference goals to be determined by the Davidson IFC; to meet national executive deans
and IFC representatives around the country and to seek to identify and understand certain trends in the fraternity world. Another
objective is to research areas and programs that might be useful to the overall improvement of the fraternity system. At
the Monday meeting of the IFC, suggestions of topics for discussion at the NIC were received, and regulation of re-pledge
programs by the IFC was discussed. The secretaries of the IFC have asked for a clarification of the faculty’s amendment
to the drinking rule. The council expressed confusion over whether the new rule (permitting drinking off-campus at college-recognized meetings of
students) was in effect or not.
