THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE SIX

Causey PETITION (Continued from Page One)

bound to report drinking violations, while the other 960 students are only ‘duty bound,’ a rather nebulous term.” Those thirty people are the members of the Student Council and Honor Court. “I am a member of the Honor Court, and it bothers me tremendously that I would have to enforce it when I think it is anachronistic and should be repealed.” Goodstein continued, “It bothers me that we (on the Honor Court) would have to kick a student out of school for a drinking violation — there is no alternative.” The people who have signed the petition, Goodstein reports, are students from all classes, Independents, fraternity men, drinkers and non-drinkers. “I don't believe they signed this simply because they want liquor,” commented Goodstein. “By abolishing this provision in our regulations, cheating, stealing and lying — the real honor violations — would receive greater emphasis, and the honor system will be strengthened.

“We (there are others sponsoring this petition) feel that this should be brought up now, when student apathy has fallen somewhat, and people are thinking about issues. I believe we can get a two-thirds vote of the students which will completely abolish this archaic rule from our regulations.”

Even if the drinking provision of the student body regulations, which Goodstein is fighting, is abolished, the faculty regulation against drinking will still be in effect.

PRAM To ‘Correct’ US Image by RON SNOW Davidsonian Staff Writer

“We are going to show the real United States to the Latin Americans, not only the ultra-modern buildings and roads or the tremendous scientific progress of the United States but also the ugly part, the slums, the poverty, to show them that this country has problems, too and is trying to solve them,” spoke Fred Ehlers.

The above statement by the originator of PRAM expresses the aims of the project underway which will send ten students to Ecuador this summer on a different type of foreign relations program. This project won the overwhelming support of the students as it was voted to receive all money collected for the YMCA Easter Fund. Ehlers, a Richardson scholar from Ecuador, feels that most Latin Americans have a very distorted view of the United States and its policies. Most of the people believe Americans to be as portrayed in our motion pictures or by the “filthy rich” tourist. Our diplomats rarely mingle with the people and only tend to increase these ideas of a “millionaire nation.” The Peace Corps reaches only a few of the very poor and at best teaches little about the American way of life. The object of this program will be to educate the middle classes to the truth about our country. By living with the people in their homes and at the University of Quito the ten students will fill a role as a “cultural” Peace Corps. They will speak widely to student and adult groups and encourage discussions with any interested persons or groups. Radio and television will be used to increase the spread of ideas.

“The students of PRAM are not going on a vacation, but will work for PRAM,” said Ehlers. Their job is no easy one since they must combat a strong leftist tendency as well as peculiar single-mindedness in which the majority believes one way and ignores other viewpoints. The cost of the project is estimated to be $10,000. Of this amount, approximately $7,000 will go toward travel expenses both ways between Miami and Quito, travel within the country, and room and board at the students’ place of residence in Ecuador. The remainder will be spent on books, pictures, slides, maps, etc., of the United States to be taken to Ecuador and for the same type of items which will be brought back to the U.S. in execution of the second phase of the program, a recount of what these students saw and experienced.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Applewhite
Cole
Lindsey
Rogerson
Beck
Frey
McGill
Sailstad
Bondurant
Holland
Mebane
Van Egmond
Semon

by TED GLUSMAN Davidsonian Feature Writer

Frolic time is with us again, with all its excitement and fun. But among all the gaiety this weekend brings will amble, unnoticed, the man responsible for the health and welfare of every Frolicker, Davidson’s own E. N. “Cop” Linker. We had quite a talk with him in his office, located in what are commonly termed “the slave quarters” behind E. H. Belk. In his 25 years here, he has seen numerous dance weekends, and his comments on them were quite interesting. “The sap's rising and the temperature of the young folks is rising, too,” he quipped, but went on to say that this kind of event was really routine for him. “We don’t make any special preparations,” he said, “except to put on an extra man.” This weekend, Linker will work each day from 1 p.m. to 10 p.m., while his two assistants will take over.

‘NO NEW TRICKS’

“We're here to try and prevent a tragedy,” he stated, emphasizing that his job was to look out for the students and for “the good name of the college.” He added that he definitely did not want to cut down on any Frolicker’s fun. We asked him to comment on the social life of a dance weekend itself, and found that he has very definite opinions: “We're getting too many high school girls and too many non-Davidson men. This is a college function and should be kept that way. We don’t want to have to start checking ID’s, but we will if we have to.”

Goodstein concluded, “They (the faculty) will have to enforce it or do whatever they want, but we feel this will help make Davidson not just a good Southern prep school, but an excellent college.”

By CARTER FUSSELL Davidsonian Staff Writer

“Flexibility” and an “increased program” are the key words used to describe next year’s program for the College Union according to Tom Scott, union president. The Union Board will meet next week to elect officers and formulate plans for next year. Scott notes that the organization of committees on the board for next year will be almost entirely different from last year. One of the most important changes is that the social and hospitality committee will be split for the coming year. It is hoped that this change will be beneficial in planning Union activities. According to Scott exact plans cannot be made as to the role of the Union until definite plans are announced concerning fraternities. He does hope “to increase the program for Freshmen” and make the Union a campus-wide organization. The committees and their chairmen are as follows: Publicity, Joe Jelks; Publications, Bill McGuire; Social,Neil McBryde and David Powell; Student Forum, Pat Hubbard and David Meschan: Hospitality, Cal Calhoun and Dan Campbell; Games, John Fagg: Movies, Gordon Ball: Open End, Paul Simpson: House, Zack Long; Fine Arts, Lou Hill; Music, Mark Brown and Chuck Matthews: and Display, B. A. Aiken. When questioned about the unusually heavy concentration of fraternity men heading the committees, Scott said, “There are more fraternity men, but not just because they belong to fraternities. We want the very best men for the jobs and feel that we have them.”

Regarding Long's return for another semester, Scott said, “He's an outstanding man and has done a fine job. Of course, we will be glad to have him again next year.” Each committee is planning full-scale activities for next year. Scott seemed especially interested in the Fine Arts Committee. Its purpose will be to encourage student talent (like the show next week), sponsor lectures and travel programs, and start a lending service. “Yes, we're going to bring culture to the bleak Union and add something to the bare walls,” said Scott.

In choosing workers for next year, Scott stressed that they wanted to get the very best men available. He hopes to have the help of John Callender, the man whom he defeated. Scott said, “He played a vital role last year and will again this year.”

The project will receive $2,400 from the YMCA Easter Gift Fund. $2,000 has been pledged by the Jim J. Cannon Foundation, and the Richardson Foundation has also pledged $2,000. The ten students will supply an additional $1,600. A faculty committee composed of Professors Philip B. Secor, W. P. Minter, T. A. Rogerson, and J. F. Causey recently selected the ten representatives from a group of over thirty students who applied for the program. The group has representatives from freshman through senior classes and represents four different schools. Those selected by the committee were B. A. Aiken, Doug Pratt, Erskine Sproul, David Walker, and Glenn Withrow, all representing Davidson College; Betty Craig and Jan Galloway of Charlotte College; Patricia Williamson and Diane Furr of Sacred Heart; and Judy Learned representing Queens College.

These students have already begun an intensive training program which brings in professors from various fields to drill them on current American situations, such as the racial issue, which they will be asked to talk about. Plans include an Open End discussion with all ten of the representatives in which anyone may pose questions to these persons and get an idea of what we are sending to represent us in Ecuador. When the students come back to school next year, they will bring back materials and impressions of Ecuador, as the second phase of the program. Secor stressed that this will be almost as important as the first phase since few people have an accurate picture of the true Ecuador. It is hoped that these projects will bring about greater understanding between the two countries and help to stem the ever-increasing leftist tide in Latin America.

Graduation day... degree... and for the college man who has taken full advantage of his college years, a special award from the President of the United States—a commission as an officer in the United States Army... the gold bars of a Second Lieutenant. That's an award you can earn by taking Army ROTC. Those gold bars mark you as a man apart from other men—a man able to work with others—to inspire them. They mark you a leader.

The Interfraternity Council completed plans for Spring Frolics and set up committees for next year at its meeting Monday night. Concerning the last campus-wide social event of the year, IFC President Jim Terry said, “We have some top-flight entertainers lined up. We think they will meet the expectations of the student body.” Committees established were Finance, Rush, and Special Projects; Scholarship, Constitution, and General Planning. Immediate concerns of these committees involve the making of arrangements and promotion of the Red Cross Blood Drive, and revising the constitution and budget of the IFC. Terry remarked that the Rush and Special Projects Committee hopes to undertake more projects of a service nature to the college and the student body next year.

The chairmen and members, respectively, of the committees are as follows: Finance, Tom Brown, Stan Brown; Rush and Special Projects, Rocky Walker, Cal Calhoun, Bill Kendrick; Scholarship, Johnny Reynolds, Johnny Jeter; Constitution, Al Carson, Ed McFarland; General Planning, Mike Booc, David Westfall.

An Army officer's commission is proof to the world that your country places its trust and confidence in your judgment and ability—proof that you have what it takes to make a decision and then act on it. These are qualities built by Army ROTC training... qualities that will pay off for the rest of your life, no matter what your career—military or civilian. If you're good enough to be an Army officer, don't settle for less. Stay in ROTC.