PAGE SIX

Open End Speaker Is Noted Anti-Communist
By CARTER FUSSELL
Davidsonian Staff Writer

A noted anti-Communist lecturer, Dr. Karlis Leyasmeyer, will be guest speaker at Open End Wednesday at 10 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the Union.

Thoroughly familiar with both Communist and Nazi persecutions, Leyasmeyer witnessed the Communist Revolution of 1917. He was also arrested by the Communists and once narrowly escaped their firing squad. During World War II he was sentenced to forced labor by the Nazis. Liberated by American troops, Leyasmeyer came with his family to the US in 1949.

Mrs. McChord Williams of Charlotte, a personal friend of Leyasmeyer and responsible for his visit to this area, said in a telephone interview, “Dr. Leyasmeyer is intellectually honest and believes in and thrives on discussion and the exchange of ideas. He is effective, but not harassing, in expressing his point of view.” She also said that she was aware of the various opinions and ideologies represented by the Davidson faculty and student body but wanted to stress that Leyasmeyer is a “Christ-centered person who has no aim but to do what he feels is morally right.”

Mrs. Williams stressed the fact that Leyasmeyer does not operate through an agency but that he privately visits high schools and colleges. He feels, according to Mrs. Williams, that this is the least he can do for the country in which he has been a citizen for 11 years. Dr. Leyasmeyer sees symptoms in this country which he has seen in other countries where he has past experiences and feels the need to share his knowledge with the future leaders of this country.

Leyasmeyer is best known for his work in the field of war repatriations. It was because of his actions that the President of the US changed the repatriation policy of the US after World War II.

Paul Simpson, director of Open End, says that this will be a unique program and an excellent opportunity for Davidson students, regardless of their views, to hear an interesting and unusual speaker.

Minister Accepts Call From Raleigh

The Rev. Curtis P. Harper, minister of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church for four years, has resigned his pastorate effective Sunday. At a called meeting on Oct. 3, the congregation voted to concur with the Concord Presbytery in dissolving the pastoral relationship between the Rev. Harper and the Davidson church. The Rev. Harper has accepted a call from the Westminster Presbyterian Church in Raleigh. A pulpit committee will be formed soon to nominate a successor to the Rev. Mr. Harper. In the meantime, supply ministers will fill the pulpit each Sunday morning.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1965

Laundry Raises Prices, Still Operates At Loss
By CON CARROLL
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Despite a $10 per year increase in fees, Davidson’s laundry operates at a loss. In considering the laundry situation at Davidson, three main points can be taken into account: the quality of laundry service at Davidson, the cost of the service here in comparison with commercial laundries, and the comparable service in other schools.

Concerning the quality of service at Davidson, C. W. Stacks, head of the Davidson College laundry, in a DAVIDSONIAN interview said that there had been a sharp decline in shirts being burned and torn over the past few years due to the fact that students were wearing better clothes.

The rise in student prices was also accompanied by a rise in the poundage rate the non-student users pay. The present cost of $42.50 a semester works out to $2.50 a week for the first semester. The only means of comparing this to off-campus laundry cost or what the faculty pay at the laundry is to assume an average weekly laundry load. Taking a small survey, it can be assumed an average laundry load weighs 10 pounds and in.

(Staff Photo by Purvis)
ALL LAUNDRY EMPLOYEES RECEIVED RAISES LAST YEAR
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Georges Nzongola, Davidson junior from the Congo, has recently begun publishing a national monthly review entitled La Voix des Etudiants Congolais (The Voice of the Congolese Students).

Fee Use Explained

The Student Body Financial Committee approved a plan this week for the allocation of the $24,675 Student Activity Fee to various campus activities and publications. The total requests for money made to the committee exceeded the amount which was available, and several publications received less than they had asked for. Members of the committee are R. A. Currie, college treasurer; Dr. A. G. Griffin and Dr. R. R. Bernard, faculty members; Ben Cannon, student body secretary-treasurer; Chuck Matthews and Bill Council and Randy McKnight and David Meschan, senior Student Council members; and Dean Richard C. Burts Jr., ex-officio members.

A comparison of the amounts requested and approved by the committee, as well as the amounts approved last year, is as follows:

Activity Requested Approved Approved 1964-65
Quips and Cranks $9,500 $9,000 $8,700
THE DAVIDSONIAN 6,500 6,436 5,750
The Miscellany 2,420 2,220* 2,420
Wildcat Handbook 1,325 1,325 1,325
Student Body 944 944 1,000
Artist Series 5,250 4,750 5,250
*Plus carry-over of $934 from 1964-65 allocation.

The Student Activity Fee is set at $25 per student and is taken yearly from the $100 General Fee. As approved for this year by the Finance Committee, and as taken on a “per student” basis, each $25 Activity Fee is divided as follows: Quips and Cranks, $9.12; THE DAVIDSONIAN, $6.52; Wildcat Handbook, $1.34; Student Body, $.96; and Artist Series, $4.75.

Council Hopes To Form Area Discount Service

Chuck Matthews and Dave Meschan revealed plans at the Student Council’s Monday night meeting to establish a Student Discount Service. Working in conjunction with representatives from various area schools, the Discount Service hopes to get reduced rates at some Charlotte theatres, clothing stores, and restaurants, with possible later expansion of the program into other areas.

Seven area schools have combined their efforts to sell the idea to Charlotte merchants and businessmen. The seven schools are Davidson, Queens, Central Piedmont, UNC-C, Belmont Abbey, Sacred Heart Academy, and Johnson C. Smith University, which represent a total of 8,500 students. Still in the planning stages, the student group will meet again next week for a progress report.

BAILEY ELECTED

John Bailey was elected by the Student Council to fill the position of Junior Class Independent representative to the Social Council. Taking the position vacated by B. A. Aiken, Bailey was elected over two other nominees, Jesse Sims and Ed Dwelle.

Bill Council informed the council of a Symposium for Freedom in Vietnam to be held in Washington, D. C. on Oct. 16. The Symposium will include speeches by both Republican and Democratic Senators, various panel discussions by well-informed students and professors, and possibly a briefing by the President or a top White House aide. In addition, the Symposium will discuss programs which students can undertake on their campuses to aid the people of South Vietnam. Anyone interested in attending should contact Bill Council as soon as possible.

ELEVEN MAIN AREAS

The combined platform of the Student Council, consisting of 11 main areas, was presented and reviewed by council members. It will serve as a plan of action for the year involving areas in which general improvement is necessary. In this manner, the Council hopes to establish coherence in its activities and provide a framework in which to incorporate issues that may arise during the year.

Each council member was given the responsibility of looking into one of the topics. That member will serve as head of a committee to be filled by other council members and students outside the council who are well informed in the various areas. Jim Timmons will examine Vesper attendance regulations. Lee Fanning, Bill Council, Billy Clark, and John Fagg will considerChanges in the academic program will include addressing areas such as exam regulations ONLY 7 DAYS — : The Miscellany, $2.25; 1st Series, $4.81, and the establishment of curriculum and course evaluation programs. Dave Powell is in charge of examining the freshman government for possible revision. The possibility of increasing the number of dormitory telephones will be investigated by Dave Meschan. Examination of chapel programs will be conducted by Chuck Matthews. Randy McKnight will head an investigation of the parking problem.

CURRICULUM CHANGES
Concerning the area of academic and curriculum planning, Bill Council announced that next semester the administration would try to run a Saturday schedule on Tuesday and Thursday, with chapel periods on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday if necessary. John Thomas was the only member absent from the meeting.

Cause For $10 Increase
The editor of and at present, the sole contributor to this monthly review, Nzongola is distributing copies to Congolese students in universities throughout the United States. Its primary purpose is to help these students better understand their responsibility to the Congo and its inhabitants. The first issue of this review, which has just come off the press, contains editorials, analyses of events in the Congo, and literary contributions, all written in French. Nzongola said he feels that American newspapers give a poor representation of what really happens in the Congo. Thus, by reading British, French, and Congolese newspapers, Nzongola can give a clearer picture of these events through his editorials and news analyses.

Nzongola Edits Journal For Congolese Students
Possibly will include contributions from the Congolese students in the United States. The first issue includes several short works of the former Premier Patrice Lumumba. Nzongola was able to get a list of the students from the Congo by writing the Embassy in Washington. He found that there are about 150 Congolese students presently studying at American universities. Although there are a few at such large universities as UCLA and the University of California, most of them attend small church-related colleges similar to Davidson. Nzongola expressed hope that many of these students will find the review as interesting as he has and will therefore contribute editorials and stories to enhance its value. He also indicated that he would appreciate help from any Davidson students who are proficient in French and who can type fairly well.

Committee Posts Open For Students
Council President Bill Council announced that there are several positions available to students as representatives on campus committees. One representative each is needed on the Religious Life Committee and the Committee on Club, Fraternities, and Social Life. Two representatives each are needed on the Artist Series and Public Lectures Committee and the Athletic Council. Anyone interested in serving on any of these committees should contact Council as soon as possible.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Operation Match
SEE ANY MEMBER OF BETA THETA PI FOR MATERIALS

The Davidson student today is “better dressed and a better type of student.” When asked about the increase in laundry cost, Stacks said: “I didn’t know there had been a price raise.” He explained that the entire business end of the laundry was handled by the business office. He did say that he worked out a budget each year in conjunction with the business office and ended by saying “I didn’t know whether I go over the budget or not, but there have been no complaints.”

Interviewing Robert A. Currie, college business manager, it came to light that the laundry is operating at a loss. Pointing out that one of the inequities of the present system is that all students pay the same price while some send out much more laundry than others, Currie replied that this was the cheapest way to handle the laundry based on the present machine setup. The laundry is open to the faculty and local people at a cost per pound. Asked about the possibility of extending this type of arrangement to the students, Currie said he would look into this although he felt administrative costs made it prohibitive.

The Young Man in the Know knows “Dacron” and “Orlon.” Counts on slim-cut slacks of 50% Dacron polyester, 50% Orlon acrylic to fight wrinkles, hold a crease through lots of hard wear. In all the best colors at fine stores everywhere. *Du Pont’s registered trademark. Better Things for Better Living through Chemistry.

The fact that the laundry must operate on a year-round basis to retain employees makes it necessary to take in trade from the town and faculty. Even then there is a significant portion of the year when the operation of the laundry is inefficient. A quick survey of the laundry situation in other schools can be helpful in gaining a perspective regarding the situation at Davidson. Hampden-Sydney College lists $55 as the approximate laundry cost and laundry is arranged through student agents of local laundries. At Furman, arrangements are made by which students may have their laundry done in an approved laundry in Greenville, each student paying the bill for the laundry when it is received. In addition, the residence halls have laundry rooms furnished with washing machines and dryers. Wake Forest has an arrangement whereby a Winston-Salem firm operates a laundry in one of the dorms. However, all laundry is arranged for on a private basis.

UNC-CH: REASONABLE COST
The record of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill states: “Furnished laundry at reasonable cost is provided by the University Laundry Department to students who wish to make use of it. An initial deposit of $20 is made at the beginning of each semester.” Laundry is picked up at UNC-CH and delivered to the students' campus rooming quarters (including fraternities and sororities). Any unused deposit balance is refunded at the end of the year. In addition, a wash-dry-fold service is available. This is an economical, cash-and-carry service and is separate from the finished laundry service. Many schools, such as UNC, Guilford, and Furman, have a linen service offered which furnishes sheets, pillowcases, and towels for $20 a school year.

CHICKEN
French Fries, Slaw, Hush Puppies
Regular

50 FLAVORS
Open ‘til 12:30 a.m. Monday—Friday
Finest Steaks Served Anywhere
SWAIN'S CHARCOAL STEAK
1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone ED 2-2414
Also Complete Line of Short Orders and Plate Lunches
Daily Food Specials
Fish Platter Filet Of Haddock 65c-50¢
OF SHAKES, FLOATS, SODAS
Eat Under Tropical Palms
TASTEE FREEZ
MOORESVILLE
CLOSES OCTOBER 15