PAGE FOUR / THE DAVIDSONIAN
Spotlight On SPORTS
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1965

Cats Head To Washington To Close SC Slate At GW
By YATES FAISON
By ARCH McCALLUM
Assistant Sports Editor

After a disappointing homestand, the Wildcats set out for the nation’s capital intent upon winning their final conference game, against
George Washington tomorrow at D.C. Stadium. Coach Homer Smith remarked, “In overall physical ability, George Washington is hardly distinguishable from
VMI and William and Mary”—hardly a comforting thought. However, if the ‘Cats can get what Coach Smith calls “outstanding individual
performances” from everyone, the Colonials may be in for a shock.

The key to the GW attack is Garry Lyle, All-Southern Conference quarterback last year and termed by Coach Smith “a
marvelous athlete, one of the rarely-seen triple threats.” Lyle may, however, be forced to sit out some of the game
as a result of leg injuries, thrusting sophomore Glenn Davis into the quarterback slot. Although injured last week, Mike Holloran
will see plenty of action at tailback for the Colonials. Fred D'Orazio and Doug McNeill, both All-Conference last year, anchor
the defense. McNeill also plays offensive guard. Commenting on the possibility of Lyle’s not seeing full action, Coach Smith said,
“The loss of Lyle would not affect the win strength of the offense. Davis runs the club very well. I
do hope Lyle gets a chance to play. We like to play against good football players, such as George Pearce
of William and Mary.”

Despite their ability and weight advantage, GW left something to be desired in last week's loss to William and Mary.
In fact, they got only three first downs in the first half. They showed an inability to cope with the
scrambling quarterback and did not control a smaller William and Mary line. When asked about possible adjustments, Coach Smith related,
“Our problem is to hustle the same and to execute our offense and defense better. As long as we keep
hustling, we have accomplished an objective, and our football program will be all right.”

Tomorrow's game is the third George Washington-Davidson clash, GW winning the first two, 40-13 in 1960 and 28-0 in 1961.

BUT SOMEHOW...
Five falls ago a rag-tag aggregation of athletes who dared to call themselves football players took a long trip northward
on the weekend after Homecoming. Blacksburg, Va. was the name of the place they visited. They went there to play
a game—or so they told themselves. People around Blacksburg wouldn't guarantee there was going to be a game. The Gobblers
of VPI had walked all over everything in the Southern Conference and little Davidson was sure to be easy prey.
The VPI student newspaper predicted a score of 49-0. It was rainy and cold that day, Oct. 1960. But a
peculiar thing happened. Davidson won.

Later that fall another Davidson team was slated for almost certain oblivion with another supposed mismatch. The basketball squad was
to meet the colossus of the ACC, Wake Forest. By all rights Bones McKinney's antics should have been enough to
scare the ’Cats off the floor, not to mention a super-impressive list of enemy personnel: Billy Packer, Alley Hart, Len
Chappell, et al. Bones even had Norman Snead playing for the Deacs. As for the ’Cats: There weren’t very many
of them and they weren’t very talented. But somehow they won.

Which brings us around to the problem at hand. Davidson enters a game tomorrow in which, judging by tradition and
outward appearances, it most certainly should be defeated. The ’Cats are small, both in numbers and poundage, they’re short on
talent, comparatively, and they're suffering from injuries—lots of them. Even the 12 straight quarters of shutout excellence must seem a
fluke to the outside world after the past two Saturdays, and the cynical observers of the Southern Conference scene must
equate this year’s team to the 'Cats of old. If they do this, however, they’ve missed the mark by one
factor. The ’Cats this year aren’t too different from other years: about the same number of players, with about the
same amount of talent. But there is one difference—a major one. The same factor that has made isolated and unexpected
appearances over the years—in those two games in 1960, against William and Mary in 1962 and VMI in 1963 and
Furman in 1964—is here every week.

Star Cornerman Prepares To Crush Freshman During Drill
By BOB REID
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“We believe certain football players are so alert that good things just naturally happen to them. Such a player is
Tommy Dews.” Coach Homer Smith can easily prove his statement. In the last five games, Dews has intercepted two passes
and recovered three fumbles to lead the ‘Cats defenders in the number of ball recoveries. In the VMI game, Dews
pounced on a Keydet fumble to give the ‘Cats possession on the opposition’s 13-yard line. This recovery set up the
first Davidson TD. Remarked Coach Smith, “Tommy has taken the ball away from the opposition five times in the last
five games. This is outstanding for a defensive player. We expect him to match this number in the next five
games.”

Tommy Dews is no braggart. "It's just a matter of luck,” he maintains. “Sure, being alert is important, but so
is being at the right place at the right time. For instance, down at Furman the Paladins ran a sweep
around my end. Just as that Furman halfback saw Pack Hindsley closing in on him, he tossed the ball right
at me. All I had to do was grab it.”

Luck or not, the 6'2", 180-pounder has impressed his coaches this season with his uncanny ability and scrappy play. “He's
one of our hardest hitters," stated Coach Smith. “There is a very good chance that if he continues to scrap
like he has in the past, Tommy will make the All-Southern Conference team this year.”

This year Dews mans the left cornerback slot on defense. A returning letterman, Dews played defensive halfback last season. Although
his present address is Charleston, West Virginia, the promise of leaving home again for unknown grounds will be of little
consequence. “We have heard that their field is nearly as talented as the opponents.” But somehow they won.1952 and 33-0
in 1953. The Colonials enter the game with a 2-1 conference record and a 3-3 overall standing. Dews played his
high school ball in Thomaston, Georgia. While a senior he quarterbacked his team to the state championship finals. He shifted
to defensive back as a sophomore. (Staff Photo by Purvis)

‘CATS PREP FOR GW

Coach Dick Tomey Leads Drill

Standing 1-2, the Wildkitten gridders were out to even their slate with a fourth game win over Gardner Webb here
this afternoon. Homer Smith and his crew of super-enthusiastic coaches, and Pack Hindsley leading second half exercises, show the spirit
that works. You see a friendly, soft-spoken guy like Tommy Dews transformed into a blood-thirsty head hunter on the field.
Unfortunately, Gardner-Webb has a talent-loaded team, and the Davidson Frosh are injury-stricken. One great vacancy to fill is that which
Greg Cox left after suffering a chipped bone in his leg during drill. Cox, termed by Coach Don Campbell as
“a great footballer and a tough competitor,” will be missed as a crushing runner and fine receiver. Tackle Jeff Phlugner
is also out with a severe charley-horse in his thigh. Coach Campbell cited that the spot left by a tackle
as quick as Phlugner knocks a lot out of the line. But Campbell plans to run the otherwise regular lineup
with many substitutions.

The Gardner Webb team will be running from a basic five-four set-up, filled with top runners prepping in the junior
college for bigger assignments or scholarships after graduation. As Coach Campbell commented, “They beat Carolina Military 54-6, so we expect
them to be darn tough.”

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.

Oh yes, there’s a football game tomorrow. It’s a long way from home, in a huge unfriendly place called D.C.
Stadium against a big, fast, strong team. The opposition has a fellow named Gary Lyle, who is great, and a
sub for him with the portentous name of Glenn Davis. According to the experts, Davidson should lose. It makes sense.
They’re few in number, they haven't a lot of talent, and they're hurt. But, they may well win, because their
spirit is not a transient type of thing. It is here and it is here to stay and it’s a
great thing to see.

Last Effort Fails

Last minute desperation and an electrifying drive brought the large Homecoming crowd to its feet but the comeback fell short
as VMI edged the Wildcats 16-10, last Saturday. The situation was crucial as Davidson had the ball deep in its
own territory. Coach Homer Smith said that with fourth down and six yards to go and only 3:50 remaining in
the game he was faced with a difficult decision. “My alternatives were these: We could go for the yardage, forcing
VMI to stop us or we could let Caldwell punt to them, letting our defense put pressure on them. We
decided to go and it turned out all right for us.” Coach Smith went on to say that with another
fourth down break a little later the results could have been different. The opinion of the entire coaching staff was
that VMI had a line equal to William and Mary's. These two teams, and Washington, are rated by the coaches
as the three strongest the ‘Cats play all season. The fine job that Tommy Caldwell has been doing punting was
again praised by Smith. Caldwell averaged 40 yards per punt.

Coach Smith had this to say in summary: “They were a strong team, but we played well on offense and
defense as well as we might have, but the Wildcats have never hustled any better. As much hustle against George
Washington will make that game very interesting.”

Bush Wilson Win. Davidson, N.C.
