FRIDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1965 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MILITARY, ACADEMIC MEN GIVE VIEWS

Viet Nam Situation Evaluated

By BILL SEIGLER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Viet Nam seminar sponsored Monday night by the Eumenean Literary Society presented an informative history of the United States
involvement in Viet Nam and raised controversial questions as to why the U. S. is there. About 60 persons crowded
into Eu Hall to hear the two and one half hour discussion. Representing the Military Science Department in the presentation
were Col. Frederick Outlaw, Capt. Robert Crittenden and Capt. Joe Crawley, while Dr. Paul Marrotte, Dr. Philip Secor and Dr.
Ernest Patterson were the other faculty participants.

“Why are we there? We don’t know.” Outlaw was referring to our situation in Viet Nam when he said those
words, but perhaps they could refer to the meeting as well since no central theme of the discussion was apparent.
In his opening remark Outlaw said that the program “was not a debate on policy,” but it later turned into
just that.

Western involvement in Southeast Asia, according to Crittenden, began when the French moved into Saigon in 1861 and took over
Indochina and the control of the rubber industry.

RISE OF HO

Dissension caused by the wealth of the French contrasted to the squalor of the Vietnamese prompted Ho Chi Minh to
incite a revolt in the 1930s against the French. Interrupted by World War II, the revolt continued when the French
regained control of Indochina from the Japanese. In this revolt the U. S. under Eisenhower, backed the French financially. In
1954 the revolution culminated with the split of Viet Nam. Ho received the land north of the 17th parallel, while
Diem won an election in the South, but was immediately beset with problems. The Viet Cong successfully began attacks, finally
resulting in Diem’s overthrow in 1963, the first of about 10 coups in the South Vietnamese government. “Every time we
were told to move north,” Crittenden related from his Viet Nam experience, “I sensed another coup.”

CONG INFILTRATION

Crawley discussed infiltration in Viet Nam and the organization of the Viet Cong. He supplemented his talk with infiltration figures,
quotes of North Vietnamese leaders and examples of North Vietnamese defectors to the South.

According to Dr. Marrotte, the problems in South Viet Nam developed from “a power vacuum in Southeast Asia since World
War II.” Our policy, the consistency of which Marrotte feels may depict the consent of the people, has had two
main objectives: to counter “local subversive movements” and to stop “the advance of Communist China into this strategic area.” Marrotte
then discussed Communist efforts in Viet Nam. The Communists have been most successful through subversive means, but have done poorly
in personal diplomacy. By avoiding a direct act of war, Marrotte pointed out, the Communists have avoided any counteraction by
the United States.

COMMUNIST MOTIVES

“I don't think that there is any question that the Communists want to dominate Southeast Asia.” Marrotte continued. He listed
five reasons why the Communists desire this area: for food, that country being the “rice bowl of Asia;” for tin,
rubber and petroleum; because of its population; to end U. S. influence in the area and to lessen the effectiveness
of the U. S. perimeter defense in the area.

An examination of the U. S. involvement in Viet Nam brought Marrotte to several conclusions. For example, he said that
the attack on Pearl Harbor was probably caused by our not letting the Japanese have a free hand in Southeast
Asia.

KOREAN PARALLELS

Outlaw paralleled the Korean situation during the war there to the present one in Viet Nam. The military man wants
to take North Viet Nam and then give it to the political people, who “haven't yet settled anything.”

Haynes, Rhodes Vie In Debate Tomorrow

Greg Haynes and Tom Rhodes will represent Davidson at the James Madison Invitational Debate Tournament at Princeton Saturday. Most major
schools in the East will send a team of debaters to this principal tournament. The topic for debate will be
“Resolved: Law enforcement agencies should be given greater freedom in the investigation and prosecution of crime.”

On Wednesday, the Davidson debate team will stage a split debate with a team from Cambridge University, Cambridge, England, at
8:30 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. Norman S. H. Lamont and John C. Davies will represent Cambridge; Mike Mooty and Tom
Earnhardt will debate for Davidson. A split debate is one in which the affirmative and negative teams are made up
of one member from each school. Mooty and Lamont will form one team and will speak against the team of
Earnhardt and Davies. The topic of this debate will be the United States’ policy in Southeast Asia, including the issue
of U. S. involvement in Viet Nam.

At Cambridge, Lamont was a member of the Royal Overseas League and a delegate to the Christian Democratic Student Conference
in Eichholz. Davies has been president of the Cambridge University United Nations Association.

Union Has New Idea For Christmas Party

Fresh ideas for entertainment and unusual contests will highlight the Union’s biggest event next Friday night. For the first time
attempts are being made to bring UNC-G, Salem, Converse and Queens. An innovation made by Union President Tom Scott is
an ugly man contest to replace the selection of a queen. One man will be selected from each fraternity and
the Independents, who will compete during the night for the prize to be given to the ugliest man on campus.
Music will be provided in all parts of the Union during the night. The Fabulous Five will perform in the
Morrison Room, while Karl Boxer’s Trio will liven activities downstairs. Student entertainment will include a new and popular combo, The
Aces Wild, plus ventriloquist Dave McCorkle.

Scott revealed that a special treat will take place in the recreation room next to the student store. “We have
secured a professional pool player, Bill Staton from Washington, D. C., who is one of the best in the country.”
Scott also announced that there will be tournaments in pool and table tennis during the week preceding the party and
that those interested in participating are requested to sign up at the Union desk. Matching tournaments will be posted, and
competition will start Tuesday.

Among the ten game booths which will be set up for competition for prizes will be “Shadow Nelson” free caricatures.
Three movies will be shown during the night’s festivities at the Union. The times for the many events will be
posted outside the Union.

Christmas Vespers To Be Held Sunday

The Department of Music will present its annual Christmas Vespers Sunday with a program entitled “Nine Lessons in Carols.” The
program presents the entire Christmas story beginning with the prophecy and continuing through the advent, birth and adoration of Christ.

Participating in the program will be the Male Chorus, the Chapel Choir, the Brass Choir and the Woodwind Choir with
Donald Plott conducting and Wilmer Welsh at the organ. Arnold Hindin will present a clarinet solo in a work composed
by Wilmer Welsh called “Pastorale for Clarinet and Organ.” A flute solo will be performed by John Taylor. The prelude
to the service will feature the Brass Choir and the organ. For the first time at Davidson, the service will
present a work by Michael Altenburg called “Three Intradas for Advent and Christmas.” There will be the traditional singing of
Christmas carols by the congregation and the reading of selected Biblical passages. The prelude will begin at 7 p.m. The
program is not one of the required Vespers services; the last two required services will be held in January.

SECOR DOGMAS

Recognizing that he was preparing to “raise a few questions in terms of dogmatic affirmations,” Secor agreed that the real
enemy to the United States is Chinese imperialism, but questioned the U. S. policy toward stopping it. Secor also recognized
the frustrations of Ho, but attributed their cause to the Chinese and Soviets rather than to the U. S. Secor
raised a question concerning the so-called “domino” theory, that as soon as one Southeast Asian country falls, others will fall
in progression after it. “Us Kennedy worshippers... say... the theory of the domino in the Pentagon doesn't hold up under
critical examination.”

MORAL INDIGNATION

Secor also discussed the rise of moral indignation in the U. S. concerning the war, saying that citizens now actually
see the effects of war and are appalled by them. He perceived a great influence in the passive resistance movement,
which he termed “very practical and political and realistic and forceful.” Secor concluded that he didn’t think the U. S.
could withdraw from Viet Nam, but that “the trick is to work out a way of staying in Viet Nam,
in my opinion, and accepting defeat there. We can’t have Barry there, and we can't withdraw.”

PATTERSON FACTS

The first point made by Patterson was that there seemed to be at least two sets of facts circulating. “I
just don't have the same facts,” he lamented. Patterson read a quote defending the publishing of pictures of war atrocities.
After again pointing out that contradictory information was being given the people, Patterson supported Secor's statement of the untenability of
the domino theory. Using witticisms concerning the different names given to “V. C.’s,” Patterson concluded that it did notseem that
the life of either the V.C. (whatever name given him), or the Vietnamese mattered. Patterson agreed with Secor and Marrotte
in that the U.S. is in Viet Nam to stop Chinese imperialism, but denounced the anti-Communist movement in the United
States. He brought out the importance of distinguishing between nationalistic aims and those of Communists. Patterson said that he had
discovered this anti-Communist movement while at the same college which President Johnson attended, adding, “See what he didn’t learn while
he was there?” (Staff Photo by Purvis)

CRITTENDEN RELATES VIET NAM HISTORY
First Hand Observations Precede Faculty Fireworks

PAGE THREE

Conservative Club To Hear McGuire

William B. McGuire, president of the Duke Power Co. in Charlotte, will speak on “Public vs. Private Power” at a
meeting of the Conservative Club on Tuesday night. McGuire, a native of Franklin, received his BA from Davidson in 1930
and his law degree from Duke University in 1933. Immediately after graduation, he went to work for the Duke Power
Co. Elected to the Board of Directors in 1954, he became assistant to the president in 1956 and president in
1958. In the past, he has served as president of the North Carolina Bar Association and of the North Carolina
Citizens Association. He has served on the Federal Reserve Board and was director of the Carolinas United Appeal Drive. An
elder in the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, he was married in 1940 and has four children. Two of his sons,
John and Bill, are presently students at Davidson.

Self-Study On Financial Policy Urges Study Of Athletic Grants
By TOM CRAIG
Davidsonian Associate Editor
(An Analysis)

In its investigation of the college's finances, the Self-Study Committee on Financial Resources, Policies and Procedures was generally complimentary of
this area of Davidson life. Numerous charts and graphs were included in the report, with data indicating the growth and
projected growth of the college’s endowment from 1955 to 1974 and also indicating improvement in school salary.

Two recommendations regarding the “mechanics” of the finances area were made. The first suggests that an annual college financial report
be made and distributed to the faculty. The second suggests that once every four years the President of the college
request the Budget Committee to survey current trends of the various budget activities and to recommend any budgetary adjustments and
changes desirable at that time. A third recommendation suggested the appointment of a temporary Summer School Evaluation Committee by the
President of the college to study and recommend ways of improving the whole program of summer education at Davidson.

One area of the college was particularly subject to the concern of the Committee. It recommended that “immediate and far-reaching
changes be initiated to improve the working conditions and pay of non-salaried employees.” In the Committee report, it was pointed
out that of this group of college employees (including maintenance, janitorial, laundry, and kitchen personnel), 35 percent of them, or
54 out of 99, made less than $2,400 for the year 1963-64. Eighty percent, or 79 out of 99, made
less than $2,860 for that year. This same group must work 45 hours per week, has very limited vacation time,
and is not covered under the college disability insurance plan.

A lengthy recommendation, including the Committee's suggestions of broad guidelines for the modification and improvement of the Life Insurance Program,
was also included at the end of the Committee's report. The Committee recommended that the “whole matter of athletic grants
be studied, with particular attention to the relationship of this expenditure to the receipts from the Living Endowment...” The Committee
noted that a much higher percentage of the annual Living Endowment Fund is being used now for athletic grants than
was intended when the Fund was established in 1955. About 48 percent of the Living Endowment in 1964-65 was used
for athletic scholarships, as opposed to the 34 percent figure originally intended in the 1955 Living Endowment “charter.” The disparity
has occurred as the formula for obtaining the number of grants to be issued has not been adjusted to the
rising costs of a year at Davidson. The Committee presents statistics that use projected figures to indicate a possible 81
percent of the Living Endowment being used for athletic scholarships in 1973-74.

Auditorium Renovation Still In Planning Stage

Plans for wholesale renovation of Chambers auditorium will be complete in about two months, Grover C. Meetze, director of the
physical plant, announced last week. “We have some tentative sketches now, but for the most part, our work is still
in the early planning stages,” he commented. Present plans call for new chairs and seating arrangement, enlargement of the stage,
air conditioning, and addition of dressing rooms behind the stage. “But even with all of this decided,” Meetze noted, “there
is yet much planning to be done. As of now, we have only suggested what the new seats will look
like and how they will be arranged. As far as the stage is concerned, we plan to enlarge it, remove
the pillars, and add new steps. We have some crude drawings done, but nothing definite has been settled,” he added.
Meetze went on to say that the windows will be bricked close to accommodate the air conditioning but that no
definite arrangement for the cooling system has been decided. “We feel these renovations will greatly influence Chambers. The larger stage
will make it possible to accommodate large performing groups more easily. And, of course, no one will argue with the
air conditioning,” Meetze noted. From the financial standpoint, the outlook is even less certain. “Only when we formulate definite plans
can an accurate estimate of the cost be made. At this stage of the game, even a ‘guesstimate’ would not
be feasible. We expect something concrete to develop in about two months,” he concluded.

Report Criticizes Council
(A Davidsonian Analysis)

Davidson's Student Council is only partially effective, causing campus leaders to adopt an attitude of apathy towards this branch of
student government, asserted the Self-Study’s Student Personnel Committee. The Honor Court, on the other hand, is strongly effective and holds
real power which is based essentially upon student acceptance of the Honor System, the committee pointed out. Student Council members
believe their proposals are often ignored by the faculty and administration and that their legislative power is circumscribed by the
college officials, it was felt. Despite this analysis of the student government at Davidson, the committee offered no recommendations to
deal with improving this facet of college life. The study group pointed out instead that students exert “considerable influence” on
the formulation of college policy and that their opinions are reflected in the content of the Student Body Constitution.

FRATERNITIES BYPASSED

Of the 24 specific recommendations presented by the committee, none dealt with the fraternity question, which the report merely explained
“has become (at long last) an area of vital concern to the college as a whole.” The fraternity problem is
“far from settled,” the group pointed out. “Strong efforts,” it stressed, “are being made to reduce hazing, as well as
the unnecessary waste of time in other stupid and juvenile activities” which occur during Greek Week. It is noteworthy that
the committee did not suggest the “elimination” of such activities, only that “efforts are being made to reduce” them. In
other aspects, the committee recommended the addition of at least two clinical psychologists who would give one-half time each to
the counseling of emotionally disturbed students. Two half-time men would be more effective than the full time of one clinical
psychologist, the committee believed. A dining room hostess should be secured to supervise the College Union food service and “to
add an air of pleasant hospitality during meal time,” the group advised. An overall mechanization in the system of student
records and registration was strongly urged by the study group. The possibility of remunerating the faculty advisers was also mentioned
by the professors in this report.

ADMISSIONS CHANGES

On the admission of students, the group recommended that each applicant be interviewed before he is accepted. Staggered four-year appointments
to the Faculty Admissions Committee by the administration were also in the recommendations. The establishment of a major academic scholarship,
awarded irrespective of financial need, was also recommended. The awards would be similar to the Morehead scholarships at the University
of North Carolina. The committee minority was recorded as favoring the continuation of the present policy of relating stipends to
the recipients’ financial need. Chairman of the Student Personnel Committee was Dr. W. G. Workman. Other members of the committee
were T. F. Clark, Chalmers G. Davidson, W. B. Hight, Moreland Hogan, Norman M. Johnson, Charles E. Lloyd, S. D.
Maloney, W. O. Puckett, and J. S. Purcell.

CHRISTMAS DANCE Friday Night

Let us freshen the impression by cleaning your suits, sweaters, pants, and by washing your good shirts.

JACKSON CLEANERS
Main St — Across From The Gulf Station

BOSTONIAN FLEX-O-MOCS
Vigorously Masculine! And right for campus—in supple leathers of brown, black, cordovan, palomino, tan Scotch grain, brownstone, and shell cordovan.
Come ease into a pair. $16.95 to $23.95.

Our 53rd Year
Mooresville
