PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1965.

Ethel Nash YMCA Sex Series

Ethel Nash will initiate the YMCA’s series of forums on contemporary sexual-ethical attitudes in a two-day appearance next week. Mrs.
Nash will speak in chapel Thursday on “The Transition in Sex Values in the Contemporary Western World.” At 3:30 she
will conduct an informal discussion in the Union Lounge. Friday at 8 p.m. in the Morrison Room she will lecture
on “The Current Crisis in Masculinity and Femininity.”

MRS. ETHEL NASH Bowman Gray Teacher

Mrs. Nash holds a BA degree from the University of Liverpool and an MA from the University of North Carolina.
She has lectured, written, and counseled on sex and family life. She is presently teaching at Bowman Gray School of
Medicine. Under the direction of Jay Federman, chairman of the Forum Committee, four and possibly five speakers will appear on
a schedule similar to Mrs. Nash's.

John T. Rule, dean of students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, will speak on the problems of college administrations
in regard to campus sex. Paul Goodman, government researcher and a social revisionist, also will appear. Goodman has authored Utopian
Essays and Practical Proposals and Growing Up Absurd. The Rt. Rev. Walter Coggin, chancellor of Belmont Abbey College, will present
a more conservative position on sex.

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for students after vespers this Sunday night:
Bailey
Johnston
Brinkley
Jones
Cumming
Kaylor
Houchens
Lammers
Jackson
McGeachy
Martin
Plott
Sterling
Richey
Marrotte
Schenck
Minter
Smith
Nelson
Stone

Council Joins Faculty In Opposing ‘Gag Law’

The Student Council passed a resolution in support of the faculty’s stand on the North Carolina Speaker Ban Law at
its weekly meeting Tuesday night. A unanimous vote placed the resolution into effect without discussion.

Whereas: We value highly the constitutional right of freedom of speech and
Whereas: We as students wish for all students to have the benefit of the most valuable educational atmosphere and
Whereas: the North Carolina Speaker Ban Law seriously limits this freedom of speech and is detrimental to the most fruitful
educational atmosphere,
Be it resolved: that the Student Council of Davidson College join with the College faculty and Davidson Chapter of the
American Association of University Professors in calling for a repeal of the North Carolina Speaker Ban Law.

In other business Fred Sackett, speaking for the Council’s elections committee, said that he would present proposals for changes in
election procedure at the next meeting. Sackett offered, however, a general outline of the committee’s coming proposals. The committee, he
said, hopes to finish the elections in a period of five days this year. The committee also considered providing more
campaign materials such as poster board and platform sheets after charging each candidate a one-dollar fee to help defray the
costs of election materials.

Sackett added that the committee would suggest that candidates not be allowed to run for both the Honor Court and
Student Council office at the same time. This was permissible last year.

Anderson Elected To Court

Kem Anderson was elected sophomore Honor Court representative Thursday in a special election that required four days to complete the
balloting. Anderson edged Alva Whitehead in the final runoff, polling 69 votes to Whitehead’s 56. The two had survived the
week's balloting which began Monday with 11 candidates. Only 32 percent of the sophomore class voted in the special election.
A vacancy was created on the court when Steve Humphrey left school to travel and study in Europe for a
year; however, Anderson will now hold the tenure of the office. Anderson, like Humphrey, is a member of Beta Theta
Pi fraternity. A native of Westfield, N. J., he is a philosophy-English major.

YRC State (continued from page one)

At which time Edgar walked off the floor. When asked for a reason for this action Edgar replied, “Because the
club was under the unit rule and I was being consistently out-voted, and therefore five votes were being cast in
favor of proposals that I could not conscientiously vote for as a representative of the Davidson club. I left the
convention to show my displeasure.” When the amendment passed, Clark withdrew his candidacy, and Beard was elected without opposition. In
the closing minutes of the convention when a resolution supporting the controversial “Speaker-Ban Law” was introduced only three delegates from
Davidson remained on the floor. All three voted in favor of the proposal, but Edgar, one of those absent, had
this to say about the situation: “I do not feel that the action taken by the Young Republicans at the
Charlotte convention, especially in regard to the ‘Speaker-Ban Law,’ conforms to the beliefs of the Davidson Club. “I fully believe
that at the meeting on Feb. 10, the action taken will be repudiated. In other words, the club will adopt
a resolution opposing the Speaker-Ban Law.” Such action was taken at the meeting this past Wednesday night. Regarding the political
views of those present at the convention, Edgar commented, “It was right interesting to note, after talking with the various
candidates for offices, that when I questioned them on their ideological beliefs I got such answers as, ‘I am a
Libertarian conservative’ or ‘I am a true conservative’ or ‘I am a true conservative’ or the reply, ‘I am a
Republican first.’ “From these personal observations it would seem that quite a few people have not learned the lesson of
November, 1964, when too many people considered themselves conservatives first and Republicans second. “It is my personal opinion that persons
holding such views are inconsistent with Article II, section four of the constitution of the North Carolina Federation of Young
Republicans, which states that ‘The objectives of this organization shall be to support the principles, objectives, and platform of the
Republican party throughout the state of North Carolina. . . “Nowhere does the word conservative appear in place of the
word Republican. I fully believe that there is a place in the Republican party for all shades of political opinion
— conservative, moderate, or liberal — not just for one group.”

THE FUN BEGINS AT ANY TIME — just up the road Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti BEST PIZZA
WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Modern Jazz At Vespers Sunday

Modern jazz will be featured at Vespers in observance of the World Student Day of Prayer this Sunday night. The
unusual service will begin with a jazz prelude and end with a jazz postlude; both hymns will be accompanied by
a jazz trio consisting of pianist Sidney Farrar, who wrote the music for the occasion, drummer Dave Hoag, and Marc
Hansen on the string bass. Presiding will be George Kuykendall, who wrote the three parts of the theme of “Crucified,
Dead, and Buried.” Aiding in the music will be soloist Rufus Hallmark. Instead of the usual sermon introductions to three
speeches, “The Sickness Unto Death,” “Thus Spake Zarathustra,” and “The Dream of a Ridiculous Man,” respectively signifying man’s alienation in
the modern world, his rejection of now untenable bases for faith, and what he finds to replace these. Such use
of jazz in church services, while new at Davidson, is not unknown in the large cities of the United States
and Europe where jazz has not only been used in Protestant ceremonies but also in Roman Catholic Mass.

These proposals drew much critical comment from the representatives. Billy Clark questioned the excessive use of campaign materials asking, “What
are the values of slogans all over the john?” Sackett allowed that such slogans and posters “added to the interest
and color of the elections.” Will Jackson pointed out that in previous years it has become difficult to enter a
toilet stall “without scraping the platforms aside.” He suggested that the committee consider limiting the posting of platforms to specific
areas or the dorm rooms alone. Jackson admitted that there was value in posting platforms, “but cramming them under doors
and posting them on the walls in every head was not the way to do it.” Tom Frist suggested that
platforms be posted only in the basement of Chambers on one board. This, he felt, might eliminate some of the
mess and still fulfill a necessary function. David Walker flinched at the proposal to charge a fee to defray costs
saying, “All I've got to my name is two dimes and one of them is defaced.” This outlay of money,
he felt, might keep some persons who would like to run for office out of the elections. The problems of
fraternity bloc voting were also discussed. Billy Clark said that he “hated to see fraternities vote against a candidate.” Johnny
Gresham asked if setting up a party system might not correct this problem. Sackett felt that such a move would
merely aggravate the situation, referring to possible inter-party bitterness and a pitting of what he called the six “out” groups.
At last week's meeting Bill Council asked if the bookstore inventory might be improved to include books for personal reading.
Jackson reported this week that he had talked to Peter Nicholls, manager of the bookstore about this idea, and that
Nicholls had said that he did.Rot want the bookstore to be in competition with such places as The Hub. Bill
Council was the only Council member absent from this meeting.

FOR SALE
'61 Monza coupe, good shape, $1050—white/red interior, 4-speed, padded dash, seat belts, Abarth exhaust, heater, radio and Blaupunkt (short wave)
9 band channel, Koni shock absorbers, 2-speed wiper, tires in good condition, brand new spare. Linka Oecelsner, Queens College. Ph.
375-9198, 332-7121 ext. 318

By HEYWARDO CARTER
Davidsonian Feature Writer

This authority is even further strengthened by the fact that while at Princeton he was on the Honor Court for
three years, thereby getting a first-hand view of the system and its practice. While Coach Smith does not himself profess
any such authority, he does have some extremely realistic and relevant views about the Air Force Academy scandal and its
applications to the honor system in general. A friend of some of the boys who were forced to resign or
were dismissed from the academy because of their part in the buying of examinations,

COACH HOMER SMITH

Coach Smith essentially denies their actions are those of dishonest or habitually unscrupulous boys. Rather, they are the actions of
boys who are basically honest young men influenced by the pressures around them and caught off-guard by a situation with
which they had never before been confronted. Referring to what he calls a very real “atmosphere of honesty” at the
academy, Smith lays the blame on those few who committed the actual act of stealing and selling, and on the
sudden confrontation of boys with these papers and consequent lack of time for them to really think about their actions
and their consequences. They were, so to speak, caught morally off-guard; the temptation was tremendous, grade pressures were great, and
when it seemed that others who had always been honest were buying exams, the cadet succumbed. Having committed this rash
act, there was no way out for the cadet, according to Smith, for in the academy a cadet is held
responsible for a violation committed at any time during his career at the academy. He cannot confess and expect forgiveness
because of his repentance; he can expect only immediate dismissal. Coach Smith believes that the most important result of this
affair is not the dismissal of the 105 boys directly involved, but the keeping on at the academy of those
boys who knew about the selling of the exams, but who did not tell any authority. According to the honor
code at the academy, the student must report any boy who breaks any part of the code or he is
liable to dismissal himself. According to Smith, an undisclosed number of boys did know about the dishonest actions of their
fellow cadets, yet they did not tell, thus making themselves, according to the honor code, as dishonest as their fellow
cadets who were directly involved in the buying or selling of exams. By not dismissing these boys, although they were
clearly liable to dismissal, the academy has set a precedent which Coach Smith believes will stand. They were not dismissed,
it is surmised, for practical reasons, and now that this precedent has been established, it seems that it must surely
honor code which would do away with the articles requiring boys to report their fellow students. (Davidson has a such
requirement in Article VII, Section 4 of the Student Constitution.)

Davidson’s new head football coach feels this clause is somewhat impractical as it is against human nature for one to
inform on his friends. He points this out by offering the illustration of a child's being taught by his parents
not to “tattle” almost from infancy. By the time one is an adult, or nearly so, he has come to
regard informing or tattling as wrong. Any rule requiring him to inform on a friend, no matter how noble a
purpose, is against his instinctive and moral precepts. Coach Smith's philosophy on the subject of an honor system and its
value can really be summed up by the following: “I believe you become honest by practicing honesty, and an honor
system gives the students a chance to become honest by practicing honesty.”

Crawford feels that the boys who were hurt most by the cheating, other than the ones who were directly involved,
are those leaving school for academic or personal reasons at the same time as the ones who are dismissed. By
leaving with the boys who were dismissed, the innocent have put themselves under suspicion at home, even though they know
they had no part in the scandal. Also hurt were boys who flunked out because others who bought exams made
higher grades than they normally would have. (The academy is on a strictly competitive basis.) Finally, Crawford believes that the
Air Force Academy should perhaps adopt an honor code like that of Annapolis where the “fourth point,” or the provision
obligating a student to tell on fellow students, does not exist. This, he feels, makes the cadets feel more comfortable
under the honor system and would prove much more practical.

Crawford Discusses Academy Honor Code

Surprised by the existence of serious honor code violations, Johnny Crawford, a Davidson junior who spent a semester at the
Air Force Academy, concludes that there was no ring or organized group of dishonest boys at the Academy, “just a
bunch of guys who got into something they couldn't get out of.” He blamed the pressures of grades and regulations
more than anything else for causing the boys who bought exams to do so. Once they had, they were trapped
until they were discovered. Crawford asserts the honor code itself seems to be “more a police force than something the
cadets could be proud of” in that it bound boys too tightly to a code which would be respected without
the numerous regulations and penalties. It causes the cadets, who are honest and would be even without having honesty imposed
upon them, to feel somewhat uncomfortable about constantly watching themselves to avoid committing some unintentional violation of it. In other
words, the cadets are not allowed too much human error out there.

Midwinters (continued from page one)

the rainy weather the dry cleaning normally increased. Stacks estimated that the laundry would turn out about nine tons of
laundry this week or about two hundred more bundles than usual, and about six thousand extra shirts. Additional help and
overtime work will ensure everyone clean clothes as usual. Stacks also comments that on dance weekends he invariably has a
number of students who forget their laundry until after closing time and call him at home. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, supervisor
of dormitories, reports that room accommodations for dates are not so crowded as during Homecoming, and everyone seems to be
settled. After one dance weekend they have observed that the girls are more prone to leave things than to take
them, although the number of pin-ups in the rooms decreases. It could be jealousy and then again... well, When asked
about the scheduling of Saturday's basketball game with Richmond away from campus Coach Charles (Lefty) Driesell pointed out that the
schedule is planned a year in advance before the dates for Midwinters are announced. He emphasized that regardless of where
the games are played, the players have the same training rules and curfew of 11 p.m. When the formal dance
was held in the gym the game was necessarily scheduled away, but now the schedule will be set regardless of
social plans. Driesell also commented that the games were not scheduled necessarily to keep players away from parties and social
functions. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts observed that there was no particular increase in disciplinary problems on dance weekends,
except for infrequent reports of noise at fraternity parties. He did comment on the lack of a set curfew on
girls staying in the dorms like most other schools. Burts feels the school should take an increased measure of control
over this situation and discontinue the policy of yielding to the students’ wishes. According to Burts, since the school accepts
responsibility for accommodating the girls, it also should assume a degree of control over the on-campus situation. He pointed out
that since the dorms have been opened to girls, the social life has seemed to evolve more and more to
off-campus parties.

UNITED STATES PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE
BRANCH — COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CENTER

We are going to eradicate venereal disease in the United States. We need people who want immediate job involvement, interesting
work, an outlet for creative ideas, and an excellent opportunity for advancement. We want to talk with above average senior
students who are majoring in the following academic fields:

BIOLOGY
HUMANITIES
POLITICAL SCIENCE
ENGLISH
LANGUAGES
SOCIAL SCIENCES
JOURNALISM
PHILOSOPHY
PSYCHOLOGY
ECONOMICS
PUBLIC HEALTH
SOCIOLOGY
HISTORY
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
MATHEMATICS

Contact your Placement Office to arrange for an interview

AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

Interviews for June Graduates will be conducted on: FEBRUARY 23
