Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

CHARLES DIBBLE Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHARLIE SMITH Business Manager

FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

T. S. Eliot

T. S. Eliot left this week the environs which he pictured as bleak and sterile in his classic The Waste
Land. Before us now lies a gaping hiatus in the ranks of social critics and literary figures. While in theory
a traditionalist and classicist, Eliot attained literary fame with the iconoclastic technique he employed in his pessimistic examinations of the
void and sterility of modern society.

Self-styled as “an Anglo-Catholic in religion, a classicist in literature, and a royalist in politics,” the American emigrant warned dismally
that we are “destroying our ancient edifices to make ready the ground upon which the barbarian nomads of the future
will encamp in their mechanized caravans.”

T. S. Eliot has taken leave of our ever-changing society. But he has left with us observations worth noting and
admonitions worth heeding: “The tendency of unlimited industrialism is to create bodies of men and women—of all classes—detached from tradition,
alienated from religion, and susceptible to mass suggestion: in other words, a mob. And a mob will be no less
a mob if it is well fed, well clothed, well housed, and well disciplined.”

Addressing The Public

“A caravan will leave at 10 o’clock ...” blared the loud-speaker atop Chambers during the second period this morning. The
professor halted, then continued his lecture. A few minutes passed. Then again the loudspeaker vomited: “A caravan will leave at
ten o’clock ...” The professor halted his lecture again, made a wry but bitter comment, then continued. Several more minutes,
then the sweet voice boomed across the campus: “Lawrence, Lawrence. Please come to the Union desk. Lawrence. Lawrence. Please come
to the Union desk.” Again the professor halted. His comment was more wry and more bitter. The lecture began again
only to be quickly interrupted by “A caravan will leave at ten o’clock ...” An angry professor quietly retorted, “Class
dismissed.”

A motorcade to meet the victorious Wildcats merits applause. But such planning—twenty-minute notice—is poor. Are we such fair-weather fans that
a final score is necessary before arrangements for a hearty reception can be made? But equally poor is the blatant
abuse of the community via the Chambers loudspeaker. That the public address system was useful in reaching the student body
is obvious. But equally obvious is the testimony to poor planning given by the blaring speaker. This morning's interruption reminds
us of another that occurred recently. While more than fifty people were struggling with the strictly timed Law School Admission
Test—the law boards—on November 14, unbridled “school spirit” prompted another Wildcat booster to play the Davidson fight song for somewhat
more than seven minutes from the much-abused loudspeaker. A bit of foresight in the future use of the damn thing
would be appreciated.

Aid?

President Johnson in his State of the Union message Monday night promised a push for increased federal aid to education:

“In addition to our existing programs, I will recommend a new program for schools and students with a first-year authorization
of 1 billion 500 million dollars...

“For the preschool years we will help needy children become aware of the excitement of learning.

“For the primary and secondary school years we will aid public schools serving low-income families and assist students in both
public and private schools.

“For the college years we will provide scholarships to high school students of the greatest promise and the greatest need
and we will guarantee low-interest loans to students continuing their college studies.”

The prospect—indeed, the inevitability—of additional federal funds pouring into the nation’s educational systems arouses mixed emotions. The prospect of improving
all-important education is heartening. But accompanying the perennial question of federal aid to education is the perennial fear of federal
control.

The administration made quite clear the “power of the purse” only shortly before the President’s address: public schools and colleges
now receiving federal aid were notified that steps must be taken immediately toward an eventual ending of racial discrimination if
and where it exists. This notification is in accordance with the terms of Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights
Act. Non-compliance would result in the cut-off of federal funds. Whether or not the cut-off of funds is justifiable is
not our concern here: the significance is that the federal government can and will exercise financial pressures to accomplish its
ends.

We await further details of the President’s program of aid to education, a program which deserves careful examination. We wish
to see what elements of control accompany the proposal of the President.

Action

Student Council tabled Tuesday night a proposed study of the Faculty Vow and the problems surrounding it. Council acted on
the recommendation of President Will Jackson who—after consulting with faculty members—felt that any action on the part of Council would
hinder proponents of changing the vow. Apparently, Council shares a mutual goal with us, namely, that the vow should be
changed. But our discussions with concerned faculty members have not led to the conclusion presented to Council. Students—as individuals and
through Council—should express their feelings on this matter, an expression which would hopefully be a boon—not a hindrance—to working out
an acceptable solution.

Managing Editors
Jim Downey
Charles Ramberg
Rick von Unwerth
Tim Kimrey
John Todd
Mike Harrington

Asst. Managing Editor
John Bailey

News Editor
Rufus Adair

Feature Editor
Bob Strauser

Sports Editor
Johnny Clark

Assistant Sports Editor
Bill Briggs

Circulation Manager
Malcolm Lane

Copy Editor
Don Davis

Asst. Copy Editors
Bill Aitken
Calvin Zon
Sam Smith
Tom Thel
Erskine Sproul
Jack Lingle
Rufus Hallmark
Lou Hilt

Asst. Business Mgr.
Irvine Welling

Advertising Mgr.
Bob Cameron

Photographers
Cartoonists

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

VESPER RULE
AUST DRINKING

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Plea For More Toleration Marks Latest Greek Letter

Dear Editor:

The fraternity question has taken much space in this paper the last several issues, and there have been proposals and
counterproposals made by the corresponding sides. As in any discussion of this type, some comments have been well taken while
others have not been. What we must realize is that constructive changes should be made in the present system of
fraternities; however, debating the abolition of this fraternity system is not the path towards a constructive solution. To use a
popular, although somewhat trite, expression, we must all reason together in searching for a solution which will benefit the whole
student body, fraternity men, independents, and faculty.

The proposal of one hundred percent bidding does not seem to be an acceptable solution; however, many evils of the
present system can be eliminated by delaying rush until the second semester. Included in the rush regulations must be limitations
on the amount of time a rushee can spend at the fraternity house during the first semester should a delayed
rush be adopted.

The main thing which the fraternities can do to improve their own position is to strengthen the IFC. As stated
in a recent DAVIDSONIAN editorial, the IFC must be more than a “glorified booking agency.” Such fraternity programs as pledge
training can be regulated by the fraternities themselves through this strengthened and broadened IFC.

There must be developed a definite alternative to the fraternity. This could be done perhaps through some form of eating
clubs or local fraternities. There is a definite need for help from the college itself, not just within the student
body.

Bill Moye
Davidson College

Kuykendall

Dear Editor:

The subject of fraternities has again become the focus of a great deal of discussion. Pros and cons have been
hurled back and forth across the campus, until one wishes the subject had never been brought up. It seems that
all arguments have been summed up for both sides and that it is up to the individual to choose. And
there are certainly a number of sincere and concerned students on both sides of the controversy.

But I would like to put forth another thesis: that it is impossible for Davidson to retain both her fraternity
system and her claim to Christian commitment, that the ‘fraternal’ system is so basically immoral as to make any reconciliation
between it and Christian morality impossible. Instead of proceeding from unassailable basic propositions, such as “love thy neighbor” and the
Christian insistence that every man is his brother's keeper, and disregarding such obvious fallacies as “each man has the right
to choose his brothers” (as one of the national fraternity magazines proclaimed some years ago!), I would like to relate
an experience of my freshman year.

When I was a freshman the bids were sent by mail Saturday morning. That morning, after breakfast, there was a
mad rush to the post office to see if “the” fraternity had come through, if one would have to join
“that” one, or if, heartbreakingly, one would have to pledge Gamma Delta Iota. Though by no means a highly sought-after
freshman, I had received a gratifying amount of attention during rush and joined this hopeful fearful throng. On the way
across campus I noticed a boy, another freshman, standing beside Chambers Building, looking at the seating charts. I didn’t pay
much attention, but happened to see him still standing there and looking at the charts fifteen minutes later. He wasn't
a particularly attractive boy, not well-dressed, or personable. In fact, he might be termed a “clod.” I was too excited
at the moment, in the rush of pledging and later in the flurry of pledge activities, to think much about
him. Yet later the imageof that boy began to haunt me. And still does. For he was one of the
despised class, that was not pledged or perhaps even redated. £0 IT WON'T GO OUT BEFORE I GET THERE. Whether
the fraternities correctly applied their standards to him or not is irrelevant. For the simple fact of standards based upon
coolness, money, or even brains, leadership, or personality is in itself immoral! Regardless of what standards are instituted, these standards
insist upon the acceptance or rejection of persons. And make no mistake; it is rejection! Despite everything else which may
be said, the independent, particularly the underclassman, is isolated, cut off from social life, from cars and from girls. And
the most significant factor of all is the feeling of “unworthiness” which so often attends the independent’s rejection. He has
been found unfit to belong to a fraternity. This rejection of persons is diametrically opposed to the absolute, radical, and
unconditional demand for acceptance which Christianity makes. Not only do the fraternities isolate the independent in a physical and social
sense, but they say quite clearly and distinctly: “You do not meet our conditions of acceptability.” And this is immoral!
Nor let us hear more of 100 per cent rush nor of sophomore rush. For while with the first, all
would be officially in a fraternity, what is the advantage of being in a “fraternity” where one’s presence is resented?
And while sophomore rush would assure that the “right” boys got into the “right” fraternities, what is the advantage for
the boys who are “wrong” for all the fraternities? And to speak of the “inevitability of social cliques” is blatant
nonsense! For, although there will certainly always be cliques, what reason is this for formalizing and putting the “official stamp
of approval,” so to speak, on these cliques and by inference, on their rejection of certain persons. These persons are
outside the pale; they do not belong to a fraternity. And finally, I assume that no one will bring up
the weary old argument of “the greatest good for the greatest number,” which could be used just as effectively by
Hitler, from his point of view, as by the IFC, from its point of view. The issue is clear-cut and
well-defined. The exclusive principle upon which the fraternity system is based is in basic conflict with the Christian imperative to
love. There can be no compromise; the system must be abolished, or so radically altered that it is no longer,
in any way, exclusive!

George Kuykendall
Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters from any reader, either in support of or differing from its policies. Letters should be typewritten,
double-spaced, and should not exceed 250 words. We also will receive longer articles, but request that they be cleared with
the editor. In order to be printed in the following issue, letters should be received not later than 4 p.m.
Wednesday. All letters must be signed. The mailing address is Box 216, Davidson, N.C.

With Feeling
By TIM KIMREY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

It is impossible to be profound, much less poetic, about the coming of a New Year. The passage from 1964
into 1965 consumes only a fraction of a moment, and, despite all the thousands who await that instant in Times
Square each December 31, despite the popping of champagne corks all over the world at the arrival of the Mystic
Minute, the sun will still shine the same way this year that it did in 1964, the twelve months will
pass again in the same ordered fashion. And yet, despite the obviously unspectacular nature of the coming of a new
year, it is a most convenient time for us to pause briefly for a glance backward at the days since
the last new year and to stupidly wonder about the 365 unexperienced tomorrows that will pass before the next. It
is a time for ordering, for cataloguing, the joys and horrors of the past year; it is a time for
arranging, in some nebulous fashion, one’s hopes and expectations and doubts about the coming year. It is the moment of
grieving and rejoicing in what man has done within the constancy and harmony of God’s world.

It cannot be said that 1964 was either a good or bad year—for this nation or for the world at
large. In some respects it was a most uneventful period for the United States. A very dry, ridiculously shallow national
election held the spotlight, and after it was all over no one could say that he was looking forward with
great enthusiasm to four years under Lyndon Johnson. Somehow LBJ and his Texan cohorts just don’t seem to be the
kind to lead a “Great Society” that I want any part of. And Barry Goldwater will probably spend all of
1965 doing research on why he lost the election. Ha. On the world scene, old cuddly, toothy Khrushchev got the
boot, and Red China got her hands on an A-bomb. Fine. Indonesia celebrated New Year’s with the announcement that she
would withdraw from the U.N. And the old world seemed as shaky as ever when the bells heralded the new
year. But at least we survived the year. No bombs fell. No grand-scale racial war erupted. And Mississippi emerged as
the most pitiful excuse for civilization on this side of the Congo. Ironic.

The New Year came to a Davidson campus that was dark and empty. The sons of Davidson were spread across
the land, arguing with parents, embracing loved ones—missed too long, and realizing that Christmas only lasts for one day now.
Each one dreaded the return to a cold, grey January, where egg salad is the only bright spot. It could
be an interesting year for Davidson. A national basketball championship is certainly not outside the realm of possibility. Within that
same realm is the possibility that Davidson will lose a considerable group of bright young faculty members if the infamous
Vow is not rescinded. To do away with this ridiculous requirement should be the first New Year’s resolution of every
trustee. And we got Homer Smith for Christmas. Could 1965 bring us a winning football season? Could be. Princeton plus
Air Force plus Davidson is bound to equal something better than last year. And every man at Davidson will spend
a great deal of time wondering about his future and the part his preparation at Davidson will play in that
future. Some of us will owe every success to the years here; some might have succeeded if they had not
come here. 1965 will ruin some of us; others will finally find some meaning in all this conglomeration known as
a “liberal education.” And so, we do not wish you a happy 1965—just an exciting one.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Greek Sophomore Calls Recent Column ‘Tripe’

Dear Editor:

The discussion of Davidson's fraternity system has, during the last few weeks, brought to light some interesting opinions, most of
which have been logical and well considered. But the column written by Mike Harrington in a recent DAVIDSONIAN was the
most narrow-minded, ill-conceived tripe I have ever read. Harrington's idea of friendship starting from a small group and then growing
by selecting and rejecting is idiotic. Admittedly, one cannot expect to be close to everyone on the campus, but it
is only fair to give everyone just consideration and an equal opportunity. As Harrington said, the fraternity has its basis
in the twin principles of selection and rejection. Then for this reason fraternities cannot possibly adhere to the principles of
Christianity. How can one say that this is “a risky generalization based on personal bias”? All it takes to see
this point is to be acquainted with the “love ethic” of Christianity and then sit through a fraternity balling session
during Rush Week. In his column Harrington said that those students who want to take part in campus activities are
going to do so whether they are members of a fraternity or not. This is not entirely true. It is
generally accepted among the “cool” fraternity men that the Independents are of little more importance than the stray dogs on
campus. This, of course, is exaggerated, but it still stands to reason that those who are scorned by the majority
of the Student Body are going to keep to themselves as much as possible. Needless to say, the number of
students at Davidson who will stand up for what they believe is very small. That the majority of “successful” Davidson
alumni are fraternity men is probably true. But it is also true that the majority of the total number of
Davidson graduates were fraternity members while attending school here. It would be interesting to see a proportional ratio of the
successful Independent alumni to the successful alumni who were fraternity men. My main concern over Harrington’s column lies in his
concept of rejection. That the possibility of being rejected is encountered everywhere in life is undoubtedly true. But does the
fact that a man was rejected by a fraternity make him any better prepared to face rejection later in life?
Perhaps, but the sting is always going to be great. If one follows Harrington's logic in its entirety, it is
easy to see that the sheltered fraternity man is in for one really bad time because he is not ready
to be rejected. I have no sweeping proposals to make regarding the betterment of the situation for everyone concerned. That
must be left for someone with a better mind than my own. I do recognize, however, that the Independents are
in a bad social position. The rest of us cannot afford to ignore their problems simply because they are in
the minority here. We owe it to ourselves as much as we do to them to help them out of
their hole.

Henry Cochran
Davidson College
