PAGE FOUR

By BILL BRIDGERS
Sports Editor

You can tell by a locked gym court with shirt cardboard over the door windows, or by the pounding thuds of incessant dribbling, or the bleacher-rattling thunder of a shaking glass backboard after a dunk shot. It’s here again. Basketball, past years’ king of the college, has begun. Practice started today.

“Yes, that's right,” Head Coach Lefty Driesell mused last Wednesday, “All our practices will be closed. Closed and tough.

“Oh, we'll probably have open scrimmages for the public; you know, after some football games, maybe at Homecoming.

“We'll have a Freshman-Varsity game after the Wofford football game. I believe. Isn’t that our last game? Well, we'll have one then.”

So last year’s Southern Conference Champions took to the practice court today. Eleven men will form the 1966-67 Wildcat basketball team. Eleven men will be out to fill the shoes of last year’s regular season Southern Conference champions, winners of 23 straight games, ranked sixth in the nation, second nationally in field goal percentage, etc., etc., etc. . . Big shoes to fill. But as Driesell says, “We've got the boys who want to fill them.”

HETZEL’S JERSEY

From opening practice and his coming basketball season, Driesell jumped into the recent fray over Hetzel’s jersey retirement. Interested that some student reaction was demanding a course of action honoring Davidson's first superstar, and his prize product, Driesell cautiously gave his stand.

“I’ve felt all along Fred ought to have something special done. He’s really Davidson’s first All-American at anything, not just basketball.

“We're doing some things for him; like getting his shoes bronzed, and putting up some pictures of him like that one (he pointed to a color shot of Hetzel kneeling with a basketball).

“My only concern is that maybe sometime we can use his jersey as a recruiting point. You know, we could promise some fellow he’d have Hetzel’s number if he came here.

“But if the students want to retire his jersey, I’m all for it. Maybe we could have a ceremony when he comes here (Charlotte) with the Warriors this January.”

So much for Hetzel for now. If his number is worth retiring (so goes common sense) enough students will back the cause (however silly Monday’s speaker was convinced it is) and his jersey will go to the trophy case.

At any rate there will be no 44 on next year’s team. Rodney Knowles comes close with 43, hopefully he’ll come as close to Hetzel’s playing as his jersey number.

AND CHARLIE SCOTT.

Charles Scott (of past column fame) was Driesell’s final topic of discussion. The Charlotte News carried an article on Scott Tuesday and informed the world that Scott had signed a letter of intent to Davidson. This means Scott will play basketball for Davidson—if accepted—and no one else.

But, The Charlotte News can’t really say for sure if Scott will be accepted here, nobody will until November 15. But don’t lose any sleep over Scott not being accepted then. Fact is, if somebody wants to bet you he won't, take it. I’ve got a good idea you won’t regret your “daring.”

Scott and several other prospects plan to come watch Homer’s Wildcats win number four this weekend, 14-6. Look closely at the game and you may see another boy who will get his jersey retired five years from now.

Tops | Winless Harriers

The Davidson College Cross Country teams met Furman at 4:00 p.m. today at Davidson and go against St. Andrews in Laurinburg Tuesday after losing last Friday to The Citadel 26-31. Coach Heath Whittle said of today’s meet, “The boys will have a difficult time with Furman. They have a very strong team." Coach Whittle added that Furman has defeated the University of South Carolina this year by recording the lowest possible score, 15 points, in a 15-46 romp.

In last week's meet at The Citadel, Davidson was led by Andy Little, who finished second, running the 4.1 mile course in 21:30 and losing by only three seconds to Speicher of The Citadel. Jesse Sims and Jim McLaughlin were next for the ‘Cats. They placed fourth and fifth, respectively.

Coach Whittle evaluated the team’s prospects in this manner: “We are not as strong as we have been in the past. We lost four out of the five top runners from last year’s team which placed high in the conference.”

Booters Pin ’Pack, Paladins, Remain Unbeaten For Year

By DON SEWELL
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s soccer squad, which met Duke today, added two more victories to its undefeated season, now 4-0, by beating North Carolina State 3-1 and Furman 2-0 this week.

The N. C. State game was a fast-moving, exciting contest. The ‘Cats managed to play the larger part of the game in State's territory, thus easing the pressure on their own defense. The aggressive tactics paid off as the team was able to score three goals. Gus Brown, Bruce Hyslop, and Lewis Foss scored for the Wildcats. Meanwhile, the tough Davidson defense held the State team to only one goal and helped bring in the biggest victory of the young season.

Against the Furman Paladins, the story was much the same. The ‘Cats played at the offensive end of the field for a great portion of the game. This time John Flowers and Lewis Foss kicked the goals for Davidson, providing a 2-0 win. The first half was scoreless with neither team really creating much of a threat. In the second half, however, the Wildcats came to life to get the victory.

In both these games and the other two wins, the greatest factor has been defense. In four games this year the opposition has been able to score only two goals as compared to fifteen for the Wildcats. The team is using a new defense this season with three halfbacks and two fullbacks. The goalies, John Barnhardt and Ken Anderson, have done an outstanding job, being credited withOver 35 saves in the Belmont Abbey and Furman games alone. Coach Fogleman had this to say about this year’s team: “We’ve surprised many people in that we're better than they expected. We’ve even surprised ourselves! We've won two very tough games. We had a little let-down against Furman, but we'll really be up for the Duke game.” The team traveled to Durham to meet the Blue Devils today. The Duke team has won two games. The ‘Cats return to face the St. Andrews team on Tuesday. The Knights are expected to be strong this year. As the team gathers momentum, their spirits are growing higher. Talk among the players after the Furman game was concerned in some cases with an undefeated season. Coach Fogleman, a graduate of Duke himself, remarked, “If the team defeats Duke, the season will be successful.”

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.

JEURGEN SCHRODER (CENTER) SWINGS TOWARD GOAL
John Flowers And Furman Camera Hog Watch His Antics

FOGLEMAN’S FULLBACK
Hanes Tops Tough Defense
By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“Yes, this year’s soccer team is the best I've seen at Davidson,” stated Wildcat fullback Glenn Hanes, “and I'm looking forward to a great season.” Hanes, whose specialty is defense, is well qualified to judge soccer players, having begun playing himself at the age of 14. Hanes’ first team experience came with the McCallie School squad (Chattanooga, Tenn.), a team with which he played for five years. The McCallie coach, Houston Patterson, has won the Mid-South Conference soccer championship several times and has seen many of his former charges develop into leading college soccer players, according to Hanes.

Following high school, Hanes entered Davidson, spending his freshman year working out with the varsity soccer team, but being ineligible for competition because of the lack of a freshman team. Hanes describes this year of no competition as a worthwhile adjustment period and points out, “There are several important differences between high school and college soccer, especially the fact that college playing involves more ball handling and more finesse. I believe that my freshman year was a necessary time for adaptation to the players’ difference in age bracket and in style of soccer playing.”

Now a senior, Hanes emphasizes that successful soccer in any age group must be a team effort rather than an individual attempt. “There are 6 to 8 people involved in every successful play in college. Europeans have been playing soccer so long that they have become experts individually—sometimes at the cost of teamwork; for that reason, we may be outplayed man for man by a predominantly European team, such as N. C. State, and will win the match because of our team play. Nevertheless, a certain amount of individual skill is, of course, vital. Probably the hardest aspects to master are headings and positioning on defense; for example, if the cut angle between the defensive player (especially the fullback) and his opponent is not exactly right, the opposing player can either kick around the defender or easily fake past him. To learn either heading or defense positioning well, though, requires a real love of the game and the willingness to practice hard.”

After citing the importance of teamwork, individual skill, and good spirit, Hanes stresses the final prerequisite to a successful soccer team—a good coach. “Coach Fogleman is what I would call a ‘winning coach,’" he said. “His strongest point is that he gets the boys to work for themselves and for the team, not for his own personal satisfaction or glory; and I believe that that attitude is responsible for much of our team drive.”

The Young Man in the Know
Likes the way natural-shoulder suits and sport coats of 55% Dacron* polyester, 45% worsted wool hold a press—rain or shine. In great fabrics and colors at fine stores everywhere.
*Du Pont’s registered trademark.

Better Things for Better Living... through Chemistry

Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Toronado will get you if you don’t watch out! Don’t look now. But a keen machine called Toronado has designs on you. Out to get you with a new way of going—front wheel drive—that puts the traction where the action is! Extra stretch-out room for six. (Flat floors, you know.) Full-view side windows. Draft-free ventilation. Many other swinging etceteras! Like we say, Toronado has designs on you. Or is it the other way around!

LOOK TO OLDS FOR THE NEW! STEP OUT FRONT 66... in a Rocket Action Car!
TORONADO * NINETY-EIGHT * DELTA * DELTA 88 * DYNAMIC 88 * STARFIRE * CUTLASS * F-85 * VISTA-CRUISER * 4-4-2

OLDSMOBILE
GALA TIME TO GO WHERE THE ACTION IS... SEE YOUR LOCAL AUTHORIZED OLDSMOBILE QUALITY DEALER TODAY!