FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1965

Delts Top IMAC Track

Scoring points in every event but the discus throw, the Phi Delts turned the IMAC track and field meet into
a runaway to repeat as cinder champions of Patterson Court this year, topping their nearest competition, the Phi Gams. Coping
firsts in the three-quarter mile run (Terry O'Hair in 3:43.2) and the high jump (5' 9" by Phil Squier), six
second places, four third places, and three fourth place finishes, the Delts smothered their nearest competitors, the Phi Gams 41-20.

Outstanding individual of the meet was Fiji freshman Tommy Caldwell, who won first in the 100 yd. dash with a
10.5 timing, first in the 220 yd. dash with a 2.1 and sparked the Gam 880-yard relay team to a
1:40 victory. Tom Newberry, another freshman, heaved the shot 46' 9" for another Phi Gam first place. Jack Lingle finished
second behind Caldwell in the 220, frosh Don Crowder was fourth in the 660 yd. run and the Delt 880
relay team was second. In the field events, Steve Smith and Sta Perry captured second and third in the shot
put. Brooks Sheldon finished fourth behind fraternity brother Squier in the high jump. Other point winners for the Delts were
Dave Sprinkle and freshmen George Leight and George Solley.

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

B-BALL NOTES

Lefty's name continues to pop up in talk of filling coaching vacancies as soon as they appear and sometimes before.
He has been mentioned in connection with Indiana, Mississippi State, and Georgia, all of which have recently filled their openings.
Now speculation is arising over Driesell’s going to Purdue, where this year’s coach resigned, and to North Carolina, where Dean
Smith is on the hot seat. Lefty says that he hasn’t been contacted officially by officials of any of these
schools, but admits that some alumni have talked to him in unofficial capacities. Said Driesell recently, “Right now the only
thing I'm interested in doing is recruiting for Davidson. I'm happy here and I've never applied for a job anywhere
else.” Let's hope it stays that way. If Lefty leaves, Davidson’s Cinderella carriage turns back into a pumpkin.

The Associated Press poll of sportswriters, the most prestigious of the wire service polls, placed Davidson as sixth in the
country in the final balloting this week. Ahead of the ’Cats are Michigan, UCLA, St. Joe, Providence, and Vanderbilt. Duke
is tenth. UPI picked the Wildcats as seventh in their final rankings, putting Brigham Young, which has lost five times,
ahead of Lefty’s twice-beaten charges.

Fred Hetzel’s inclusion on Look magazine’s ten-man All-America team makes it a clean sweep for the Wildcats’ big one in
the array of All-American squads. Hetzel has won a first team position on all four other major A-A teams, including
those of the Associated Press, United Press International, NBA coaches, and Sporting News. Joining him as unanimous choices on the
consensus All-American are Bill Bradley of Princeton, Cazzie Russell of Michigan, and UCLA’s Gail Goodrich. Dick Snyder joined Hetzel on
Look’s District 3B All-Star team. Other members are Larry Lakins of N. C. State, Billy Cunningham of UNC, and Bob
Leonard of Wake. Sports Editor Ronald Green of the Charlotte News merits a vote of thanks from Davidson, as he
was the representative of District 3B on the selection committee.

Davidson's Tom Youngdale and Bobby Lane won positions on the Greensboro Daily News’ ten-man All-State Freshman team, which was led
by Larry Miller of UNC and Mike Lewis of Duke. Other team members are Duke’s Warren Chapman and Ron Wendelin,
Grey Campbell of UNC, Bill Kretzer and Bill Mavredes of N. C. State, and David Stroupe of Wake.

My apologies to Southern Conference Commissioner Lloyd Nondan for ever questioning the justification of the conference tournament. West Virginia’s 14-15
season record and 22-point massacre by Providence in the Eastern Regionals’ first round substantiates without a doubt his theory that
the league’s method of determining a champion produces a team that is “both season-strong and tourney-strong.” Irrelevant is the fact
that the first team in the conference has not gone to the NCAA tourney in three of the last five
years and also irrelevant is the fact that in these three years the Southern’s representative has lost its first-round game
by an average margin of 22 points, including two losses to Ivy League teams. There is no doubt that West
Virginia was the conference’s best team this year, that the single-elimination tourney is the fairest, most logical, most practical way
of determining a champion and that it contributes immeasurably to the Southern’s national prestige.

The Wildcat senior cagers’ match against Cunningham’s team isn’t their only post-season activity. Except for Briggs, they are all also
playing this weekend for Greenville Old Pros in the Southern Textile Basketball Tournament in Greenville, S. C. In addition, Hetzel
was selected today for the East-West All-Star game March 27. He scored 15 points for the East in last year’s
match at Lexington, Kentucky.

AND FOOTBALL, TOO

Football Coach Homer Smith reports that he has now bagged five recruits for next year’s frosh squad. Leading the list
are Mike Thornton, a 6-10, 195-pound running back and linebacker from Jamestown, and Sandy Brennan, a 6-2, 205-pound lineman from
Morganton. Also deciding on Davidson's revamped football program are Sam Gwyn, a 180-pound running back from Leakesville who is a
scholarship finalist here; Hal Shaw, a quarterback from Greenville, S. C.; and Lewis Homer, a 190-pound interior lineman from Clearwater,
Fla. who has played only one year of high school ball and who Smith says may be a real “sleeper”.
The new grid mentor also reports that Stu Burness, a 6-3, 215-pound junior who was on the varsity basketball squad
last year and suited out for the conference tourney this year, will be out for football this spring, probably as
a tight end.

VMI Thinclads Top Conference Meet

VMI's Keydets jogged away with their seventh conference indoor track championship in 12 years Saturday on their home oval in
Lexington, Va., as Davidson’s squad, reduced in number because of last-minute illness, limped in with seven points to take seventh
place in the team standings. The Keydets, who copped first place in five events, broke three records in scoring 64
1/3 points. For the Wildcats, sprinter Alan Turner took fourth place in the 60-yard dash and in the 60-yard low
hurdles (a new race in the conference meet). Commented track coach Heath Whittle, “The 60 (yard dash) was won in
0:06.2, an exceptionally good time for this season of the year. Our man, Turner, however, is basically not a 60-yard
man; his specialty is more in the 100 and 220 dashes.” Whittle continued, “Tommy Heffner did a good job for
us by running a 4:27 mile and taking fourth place in that event. Ronnie Reese did very well in the
880; he ran a 1:58, his best time, and took fifth place.”

(Staff Photo by Smith)

SCHUTT SWINGS AT FOE - Net Captain Preps For Cadets

Hetzel’s ‘Cats’ Face Cunningham’s All-Stars

Fred Hetzel will lead a team of his senior cohorts and other Southern Conference players against Billy Cunningham, and the
Big-Four All-Stars in the Charlotte Coliseum at 8 p.m. on March 23. “I'd like one more organized game in Charlotte,”
said Hetzel. “A lot of people in Charlotte felt that Davidson got a raw deal in having to cut our
season short since we didn't get to go to the NCAA or the NIT. This will give them another opportunity
to see the Wildcats." Davidson players Hetzel, Barry Teague, Charlie Marcon, and Don Davidson will be featured in the game.
Terry Holland, assistant basketball coach at Davidson and a member of last year’s nationally tenth-ranked team will join them. Two
Furman players, Les Heicher, a 6-2 guard, and David Selvy, a 6-2 forward, complete the team. Cunningham brings two UNC
teammates with him, Ray Respess and Bill Brown. John Anderson and Richard Herring represent Wake Forest. Hack Tison and Denny
Ferguson from Duke are the only other definite members of the team. Depending on N. C. State’s fortunes in the
NCAA elimination, Larry Lakins may join the squad. Hetzel promises a good game for the spectators. “This will definitely be
a serious basketball game. Art Capper will officiate, and we hope to get another big name official. There ought to
be a lot of good basketball.”

Tennis Season Starts Monday With Cadets

By SAM BOYTE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson gets a weather-weakened tennis season under way next week with a conference match against The Citadel Monday. South Carolina
Tuesday, as the netters attempt to improve on last year’s 18-6 record and second place conference finish. Coach Harry Fogelman
lamented, “I would say we have been hampered tremendously by the weather, more so than in any other spring since
I have been here. The courts froze just Tuesday night. Dick Hurd hasn’t reached the potential yet that he will
in hot weather.” Hurd was voted the Most Valuable Player on the team last year. Fogelman is also counting on
sophomores Bill Council, John Peddy, and John Davis. “These sophomores have come around real well,” he gloated. “They are all
going to play a lot.” But competition for the top spots is going to be strong: “Council is probably playing
the best of anyone right now,” he said. “He will play in the number one position against The Citadel.”pe Eainst
The Cit last year’s team. Five men are returning from last year's team, including one senior, Captain Bill Schutt, and
four juniors. These include Hurd, Bill Council, Jeff Frank, and David Meschan. Number-six man Johnny Arial graduated and number-three player
Woody Cleveland is in France on the Junior-Year-Abroad program. Fogelman is particularly pleased with his sophomores: Esmond Phelps, George Mueller,
Peter Parrott, and Jimmy.

“Actually, I don’t intend to be doing too much coaching. I intend to be playing. I hope to get Warren
Mitchell (Davidson assistant) to coach us, and Cunningham is trying to get one of the Carolina coaches. I’ve been looking
forward to playing against Cunningham.”

Lefty Lands Honor: Top SC Coach Again
By CHUCK BYRD
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Basketball coach Lefty Driesell tied former West Virginia coach Fred Schaus’ record Tuesday when he was named Southern Conference Coach-of-the-Year
for the third straight season. But different from the last two years, this year Driesell had some close competition. It
came from Bill Chambers of William and Mary who polled 16 votes to Driesell’s 20. Other coaches who received votes
were Howie Shannon of VPI, with 6 votes; Lewis Mills of Richmond, 3 votes; George King of the newly-eliminated Virginia,
with 2 votes; and Mel Thompson of The Citadel, with 1.

“I’m real proud that the sportswriters chose to give me the award,” Driesell commented, “but it’s not just for myself.
I feel that it was given to the whole basketball program here: Coach Mitchell who made many important decisions this
year, Coach Holland, and of course the big thing, the boys who produced on the court all season.”

Esmond Phelps has improved and will probably start at number-three. Shutt will be second. The team appears especially strong in
lower positions. Fogleman pointed out that the team will be better than last year in the fifth and sixth positions.
Doubles competition pairs Schutt and Council on the number one team. Hurd and Phelps form the second. Third position in
the doubles is to be taken by either Parrott and Mueller or Meschan and Frank.

A stiff schedule faces the Foglemen. They play 27 teams and include competition at the Rollins Tennis Week tournament in
Florida. Rollins is rated as one of the better tennis schools in the country. Two weeks from now, the tennis
team takes on two top Ivy League schools, Amherst and Williams. Soon after that, they meet Columbia. These four teams
accounted for four of Davidson's six losses last season along with Duke and George Washington. Other non-conference competition pits the
‘Cats against Toledo, runner-up in the Mid-American Conference last year. They also face Kalamazoo College which was ranked third among
small colleges last year and is rated second only to Michigan among that state’s teams this year.

“We'll be able to say about where we stand in the conference by the time we start Spring Vacation,” speculated
Fogleman. “By then we will have played three conference matches—The Citadel, Furman, and George Washington.” Later conference action against VMI
and VPI. A pleased Fogleman pointed out that the conference tournament will be played at Davidson for the second year.
“It won't give us any advantage, but it's nice to be on your own courts.”

Fourth In Conference Match
By NEVILLE PATTERSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Southern Conference wrestling season came to a close this week with the conference tournament held at VMI. Davidson's Wildcats (22
pts.) took fifth place behind third place VMI (42 pts.) and The Citadel (40 pts.). Furman and William and Mary
were both unable to score and together shared the cellar. As defending champion, West Virginia came through with enough second
and third places to edge out Virginia Tech for the best team total. VPI took more individual first places than
anyone, but was unable to beat West Virginia's well-balanced squad, which piled up 74 points to VPI's 71.

In the 123 lb. class, Joe Buffington was decisioned by Charlie Check of West Virginia, but he followed up his
defeat to take third place behind John Seymour of VPI and Check. Mike Bisard, Wildcat captain, took third place in
his 130 lb. class. He was pinned by Ned Jarrell of VPI who took first place. Terry O’Hair got a
bye in the 157 lb. first round. He then lost to Bob Callahan of VPI and beat VMI's Van Vamais
to take fourth place. In the 167 lb. class, Eris Nichols beat Ennis Marks of The Citadel, then beat Jack
Jordon of VMI in overtime before he was beaten by Biondollio of West Virginia. Nichols came in third behind Dick
Jenkins of VPI and Biondollio.

Parker also noted, “Buffington did real well; he lost only one match the whole season, including the tournament. Eric Nichols
was tremendous in the tournament as well as throughout the year; so was Jesse Sims. I can’t wait until next
year.”

Spring Sports Schedules

Tankers Fifth In ISC Meet

Davidson's swimmers finished the 1964-65 season by placing fifth in the Southern Conference Swimming Meet at Williamsburg last weekend, a
fourth-place finish only on the final relay. VMI, last year’s conference champions, lived up to expectations by capturing first place
with 144 1/2 points to set a new conference-meet scoring record. VPI's tankmen finished second with a total of 96
points. The Citadel was third with 54 points, William & Mary ranked fourth with 50, and West Virginia followed way
behind Davidson’s 46 with a total of 2 points.

Top Catfish included Randy Hughes, who qualified in both the 200- and 400-yard individual medleys and swam a leg of
the freestyle relay, Jim Stokes who qualified third in the 100-yard butterfly and finished third, and John Helm, who qualified
sixth and finished fourth in the same event. John Alexander qualified in the 100- and 200-yard backstroke, the 50-yard freestyle,
and swam the backstroke leg of the medley. Butch Falligant finished fourth in the diving competition.

Coach Charlie Parker, who coached Fagg as a wrestler, recalled, “He was about the best wrestling captain I have ever
had. He will make a big contribution to the athletic program as a coach, recruiter, and personality. He's a real
hustler—a ball of fire.” Parker's only complaint is that the former Carolina's A.A.U. champion will not be helping coach wrestling.
Instead, he will replace former assistant Dwight Shoe as swimming coach. While at Davidson, Fagg was in Omicron Delta Kappa,
Who's Who, “D” Club, the Beaver Club, and the YMCA. He served on the Honor Court and as president of
his fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta. After receiving a master’s degree at Boston University, he was assistant coach and head wrestling
coach at Garinger High of Charlotte. He comes to Davidson from The Citadel, where he also served as football assistant
and head wrestling coach. The High Point native is married and has three young sons. He is expected to arrive
next week to prepare for spring practice which begins April 6. Homer Smith joked that, “I don't know if I'd
like to play under him or not. I hear he’s pretty tough.” A sophomore halfback remarked, “If Coach Smith has
doubts about playing under him, I know he’s tough.”

DRIESELL 3 in A Row

Marksmen Shoot Sixth At SC Meet

Davidson's rifle squad finished sixth in the annual Southern Conference shoot-off at Fort Lee, Va., Saturday. The Davidson riflemen compiled
a score of 1390 in what Capt. Harold Fraley, coach, termed “one of the best matches we've had this year.”
Finishing ahead of the Wildcat marksmen were Virginia Tech (1442 of a possible 1500), The Citadel (1434), West Virginia (1435),
VMI (1435), and Richmond (1410). Trailing the leaders were Furman (1387), William and Mary (1366), and George Washington (1317). Statistics
showed Jim Writer and Dan Bahram, both of VMI, as the individual leaders with 297 and 295, respectively, out of
a possible 300. For Davidson, Jim Kopp fired a 265, including a perfect score from the prone position, while Jim
Clark and Walter Eastes each had 282's. Wes Bailey fired a 278 and Ed Maxwell rounded out the score with
a 263.

DATE BASEBALL GOLF TRACK TENNIS
March 15 The Citadel, The Citadel (A) Furman, G.W. (A)
16 Pfeiffer (A) S. Carolina (A)
19 U. of N.C. (WH)
20 Pfeiffer (H) Lenoir Rhyne & High Point (HR)
22 Catawba (H) N.C. State (A)
23 Amherst (H)
24 Kalamazoo (H)
25 Wm. & Mary (H) George Wash. (A)
26 Williams (H)
27 Clemson (2) (A) Furman (A)
29 Ga. South. (A) Stetson (A)
30 Ga. South. (A) Rollins (A)
31 Wilmington (A) Hope (A)
April 1 Wilmington (A) Fla. Tour. (A) Columbia (A)
2 East Car. (A) Fla. Tour. Fla. Presby. (A)
3 Fla. Tour. Fla. Presby. (A)
5 Wm. & Mary (2) (Ft. Myers) (H)
7 N. C. State (A)
8 Furman (2) (A)
10 Belmont Abbey (A) News Piedmont Pfeiffer (A) Relays (A)
14 West Va. (2) (H) Presbyterian (A) Old Dominion (H)
15 St. Andrews (H)
16 East Car. (H)
17 East Car. (H) Richmond (H) Guilford (H)
20 High Point (H) U. Toledo (H)
22 Emory (A)
23 Ga. South. (H) Oglethorpe (A)
24 Ga. South. (H) Davidson Relays
26 V.P.I. (2) (H) V.P.I. (A)
28 U.N.C. (A) Appalachian (A)
30 U.N.C.
May 1 V.M.I. (A) Wake For. (A) Wake Forest (H)
3 W. Va., G.W.
4 Belmont Abbey (H) Duke (A)
8 Geo. Wash. (2) (A) St. Andrews (A) V.M.I. (H)
10 Richmond (A) S.C. Tour. S.C. Tour. (H)
11 S.C. Tour. S.C. Tour. (H)
12 S.C. Tour. S.C. Tour. (H)
14 S.C. Tour. (A)
15 S.C. Tour. (A)
17 The Citadel (2) (A)
